Public  perceptions  of  crime  are  permeated  with  the  image  of  violent  activities  and  of  the  dangerous  people  who  perpetrate  them;  gangsters,  terrorists,  murderers  and  sex  offenders  being  the most prominent examples. Violence in this sense is directly related to  the  idea  of  physical  aggression  and  harm,  which  is  either  realised  or  threatened  by  the  activities  involved.  Even  beyond  these  extreme  cases,  criminals  are  commonly  thought  to  be  dangerous,  and  crime  is  almost  inherently  perceived  to  be  violent.  Even  crimes  that  do  not  directly  involve  physical  aggression  tend  to  have  an  aura  of  violence  around them, be it because of the harm that they reportedly cause to their victims (for instance, think of the fraudulent activity that deprives a  pensioner  of  their  lifelong  savings),  or  because  of  the  danger  they  might pose to public order and social relations. Prosecutors often rely on these images of dangerousness and violence to convince juries of the defendants’ guilt and criminal character.

It is undeniable that the idea of violence is intimately connected with notions of crime. However, it is often easy to naturalise this connection, by  assuming  that  certain  activities—and  certain  individuals—are  criminalised  because  they  are  violent,  and  that  criminal  law  is  simply  reacting  to  such  violence  by  regulating  it  and  protecting  the  public  from  it.  Instead,  it  is  important  to  see  this  relation  as  complex  and  problematic, not only shaped by the context of crime but also having a significant role in shaping it in return. This short intervention aims to raise a few reflections focused on examining the complexities involved when  unpacking  the  relationship  between  crime  and  violence.  In  particular, I am interested in discussing how an uncritical understanding and deployment of this violence-crime link contributes to perpetuating discrimination, marginalisation and miscarriages of justice in society.

It  is  worth  starting  this  reflection  with  a  simple  yet  often  neglected note: that the violent character of certain activities, even in relation to the most serious crimes, is not self-evident. Rather, our conceptions of what constitutes violence, and especially unlawful (criminal) violence, are  constructed;  that  is,  they  are  conditioned  by  their  social,  cultural  and  historical  context,  and  shaped  by  political  pressures  and  power  relations. For instance, a significant number of deaths is caused each year by industrial activities and commercial decisions, many of which in circumstances which could easily be described as violent, but these are rarely, if ever, deemed to be criminal. Why is it that it is easy to talk of murder when someone kills another person for financial profit, and so difficult to do the same when the death of several people is caused by the actions of a company? Even cases that attract a significant degree of public condemnation, such as the fire at Grenfell Tower in London in 2017, are only uneasily discussed as violent in nature, and rarely lead to criminal prosecutions.

There  is  a  myriad  of  harms,  both  individual  and  social,  that  go  unrecognised  by  criminal  justice  institutions.  Even  those  that  might  otherwise easily fit within an established form of crime can have their status as violent activities significantly contested. For instance, in formal terms, rape is considered one of the most serious and violent crimes in most legal systems, and in many jurisdictions, it is widely condemned. However,  in  practice,  it  is  a  crime  that  has  very  low  conviction  rates,  even now that levels of detection, at least in many parts of the western world,  are  on  the  rise.  Independently  of  the  harm  experienced  by  victims/survivors,  perceptions  of  what  constitutes  rape  are  often  tied  to  cultural  values  and  social  biases,  which  often  lead  to  a  reluctance  to convict those who do not appear to fit into popular images of what constitutes a ‘violent offender’.

But  just  as  we  are  reluctant  to  see  violence  in  circumstances  that  do  not conform to preconceived ideas of crime and violence, the opposite is  also  true:  we  tend  to  infer  the  existence  of  crime,  and  to  identify  individuals  as  dangerous  offenders,  when  circumstances  link  these  activities and people to images that we recognise and accept as violent, even  when  that  might  not  actually  be  the  case.  A  prime  example  of that can be seen in relation to the treatment of gang violence by the criminal  justice  system  in  England  and  Wales.  Gang  violence  has  for  decades now been identified as a serious social problem in the United Kingdom, a perception that has been made more acute in recent years, due to the rise in instances of knife crime.2 As a result, a broad range of different powers has been given to criminal justice agents to deal with gangs,  including  preventive  measures  such  as  gang  injunctions  and  criminal  laws  aimed  at  facilitating  criminalisation  in  these  instances,  such as the infamous law of joint enterprise. 

While  it  is  impossible  to  deny  the  violence  inherent  to  activities  such  as knife crime, it is also essential to appreciate how the way in which we  interpret  such  violence,  and  indeed  how  we  identify  it  as  the  result  of  individualised  crimes,  can  misidentify  the  problem  and  lead  to  significant  injustice.  More  specifically,  linking  this  kind  of  violence  with  the  activity  of  gangs  leads  to  forms  of  criminalisation  that  disproportionately  affect  racialised  and  marginalised  populations,  as  they are “reliant upon a ‘common-sense’, racialized and stereotypical discourse that links BAME [Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic] men with an involvement with gangs, drugs and violence”.4 This link generates a skewed perception of what this kind of violence involves and where it originates; as a result, not only are instances of knife crime that cannot be tied to BAME groups less likely to be detected and dealt with, but also,  and  most  importantly,  BAME  individuals  and  groups  are  much  more  likely  to  be  identified  as  ‘gang  members’  and  thus  be  targeted  by criminalisation, even if they cannot be said to have committed any violence  in  the  first  place.  “When  it  looks  like  a  gang—and  especially when the police call it a gang—it must be a gang”.

To  understand  how  our  conceptions  of  violence  are  constructed,  and  especially  how  they  are  linked  to  the  notion  of  crime,  we  need  to  examine  how  these  conceptions  are  underpinned  by  a  series  of  social, cultural and political processes that emphasise certain kinds of violence, link them to certain types of individual and group, and identify them as criminal. This is an urgent matter, because the same processes that  make  visible  and  naturalise  the  individualised  violence  of  crime  also  blind  us  to  other,  more  pervasive—and,  one  could  argue,  more  dangerous—kinds  of  violence  upon  which  criminalisation  depends.  These  include  the  structural  violence  embedded  in  contemporary  societies, which preserves and promotes structures of inequality that, among  many  other  things,  protect  patriarchal  structures  and  socio-economic exploitation, and the epistemic violence that makes society see  and  treat  racialised  and  marginalised  populations  as  dangerous  criminals first, and human beings second—if at all.

In  short,  before  we  can  tackle  the  violence  of  crime,  we  need  to  seriously engage with the violence of criminalisation.

Public  order  law  has  all  too  often  been  seen  as  a  matter  of  expediency  or  state  control, without a coherent or underlying rationale. ‘Throughout most of our history, “bad manners” crimes have been called crimes against public order. Today, we callthem “quality of life” crimes. The list of quality of life offences is long...’.1If the list were consistent and coherent, it  may  be  more  desirable  that  it  were  long  and  inclusive  than  short  and  under-inclusive. However, disorder is ‘regulated differently in different countries, and even under different names’.2Even  within  a  single  jurisdiction  such  as  England,  Scotland  or  China, as  will  be shown,  ‘public  order  crimes’  is  undefined  as  a  concept –chaotic  as  a  category –and ambiguous  in  scope.  It  performs a  residual  function,  including  things  that  do  not  fall  into other categories. It is not clear whether it is and how it can be an independent category of crimes. 

This  situation  should  be of  concern  to  and  frowned  upon  by  criminal  law  scholarship.  If publicorder law were not organised or rational, it is difficult to limit the arbitrary expansion of  public  order  offences,  which  means the  simplification  and  codification  of  criminal  law cannot be completed.3Secondly, even if individual pieces of legislation and judicial practice can  avoid  categorising  an  offence  as  against  public  order,4prosecutorial  guidance,  crime statistics  and  textbooks  cannot.5 To  fulfil  the  task  of  categorisation,  public  order  offences should  be  put  on  a  more  consistent  and  rational basis.  More  importantly,  restrictions  on personal morality and other forms of social authoritarianism, e.g. restrictions on free speech, are often justified in the name of civil peace or public order.6 People’s rights and liberties may be arbitrarily infringed if we continue to see public order law as a ‘dumping ground’.

Then how should we think about public order law? We should stop thinking of it as a catch-all category of crimes into which every other crime that cannot be put in other categories can be dumped. Legal resources are limited. This category of crimes should have its own goal, task  and  scope.Public  order  law  should  be  dedicated  to  protecting  a  unique  value  for people’s life. To justify this position I will, in the following three parts of this Preface, look at how the arbitrary scope of public order as a legal interest leads to crimes against public order having a chaotic scope –how principled criminalisation can help to establish a clear and valid scope of public order crimes –and then outline a progressive structure of the whole thesis.