The uncanny under fire must take its place among things to be investigated, the evidence is
too convincing to be pooh-poohed. Science and philosophy are now boldly entering the dim regions
of the occult in search of its laws; on the battlefield Tommy Atkins is already there thinking
over weird things and he comes to conclusions, finding the lights by which he steers.

This chapter could not be complete without mentioning another mystery of the battlefield: it
is this--the number of instances in which the Germans have savagely pounded a church with their
artillery, only to find on entering the ruin that the cross was still there erect and intact.
One Uhlan soldier climbed upon an altar to smash a crucifix, slipped and put his ankle out.
That may be a coincidence. Next moment a shell killed him and one of his comrades, the crucifix
remained uninjured. Soldiers, French and British, talk of these uncanny things, interpreting
them in several ways, but each of these ways is the pathway of the spirit--perhaps part of
the altar steps on which men climb up through the darkness to God.

II

WAR THE REVEALER

War is not only the Great Educator, it is the Great Revealer. Its marches and bivouacs, its
battles, its commonplaces and surprises, its trials and its triumphs, are a singular school
of experience. The various impacts upon man's psychological anatomy produce strange results.
They seem like the blows of some Invisible Sculptor, producing out of commonplace material
a hero and it may be a demi-god. The opening orchestra of shot and shell braces up the mind
of the soldier and attunes it up to receive new sensitiveness. The bullets play strange dirges
on the strings of life before they break them, and each dirge has its theme, some song of spiritual
things. His gaze is towards the sky line and he sees strange things, a whole battery of lights
each of which is in its way a revelation. The battle chorus crying to the night of long silence
becomes a prayer, and the response is ever helpful.

The individual amid the thunder of his surroundings in the red surge of battle somehow never
allows his soul to become obscured. It is taking impressions which later in the day as he sits
by the camp fire cause him to think and to reach conclusions which leave him a different man
from what he has been. We see this in the glow of the soldiers' letters to those he loves:
he has come within the shadow of the Divine Reality as the wondrous book of Life and Death
opens on the battlefield. The result is the Soldier's Gospel. It would cause the devotees of
little Bethel to faint with its crude "superstitions" and absence of meaningless and stupid
dogma yet its grip of spiritual things and Divine Aid would make the ordinary "go to meeting"
Christian gape with astonishment. The soldier's simple faith, his willing endurance, his quiet
heroisms, his silent self-sacrifice, though they call for no louder name than duty, are just
those chords which link him to the Great Heroism which saw its culmination in Calvary. After
all, deeds only are the words of love.

The Soldier's Gospel is a wonderful revelation: the world grows gratefully small as it appreciates
its work, worth and effect upon the man. All the lights by which he steers sum up good citizenship
rather than sectarianship. We had long ceased to cultivate the former.

"There goes a hospital ship," and a Commander of one of H.M. Patrols pointed out to me a transport
full of wounded. We thought in pity of that array of maimed men, of silent suffering, of bandages,
slings, crutches and artificial limbs, but suddenly there arose from the transport a mighty
cheer of greeting and salutation to the white ensign. That was the reply of war's wreckage
to those who pitied. It is a wonderful Gospel that produces this. But the invisible, while
full of awe, does not daunt him, the soldier reaches out towards the rather unknown searching
for light and finding it. Under fire means so much, it is filled up with so many experiences,
you march through a lifetime in a few seconds, you get new views of the past years from another
angle of vision. Shadow and darkness and doubt are lifted, the soldier is frank and honest,
he is not hide-bound by petty superstitions, he is willing fairly to consider and weigh all
sensations, visions and inner illuminations. He is not blinded with the dogma of either agnosticism
or sectarianism, while his sense of humour saves him from many of the errors of the various
"Christian" brotherhoods. Curious enough, the people who object to duty, who are unwilling
to strike a blow for righteousness, invariably belong to some of the freak sects and are devotees
of sectarianism in its narrowest meaning.

No doubt "Vicarious Suffering" the root doctrine of many sects in this country is responsible
for the general shirking of duty on the part of so many men to-day. Men look to the ballot
box for their meat in due season. They want all the privileges of citizenship without the responsibilities.
The sects of to-day in teaching that the historic Christ took all our sins upon His shoulder
have produced a type of sentimental immoralist who creeps under the shelter of the Cross, content
that Christ should suffer in his place. So long as the Cross does not offend his eyesight,
he is willing to find refuge in its shadow. Where selfishness reigns there is no vision. The
gaze is upon gain, personal comfort, things entirely earthly. A man who is always looking at
mud thinks in terms of mud. Just as a great naturalist confesses a loss of the finer sense
of music, so there is the loss of the spiritual vision, for the spiritual sense is just as
real as any other sense, but it can become useless and drop out of our life, if we do not value
it and no longer use it. There are people with an artistic sense. There are more without it.

The doctrine of the atonement is used to promote the crude idea that to put our responsibilities
upon others is more religious than facing them oneself. Christ's atonement is no isolated fact
in history to make men cowards, but a sustained attitude of devotion in which every man and
woman is to take a part. Instead of thanking Christ for hanging there upon the Cross in our
place we should strive for the same courage, the same endurance, the supreme devotion to duty
and the vision of Divine Aid will be ours perhaps in Angel form. To the brave in all ages has
come the vision of higher things.

III

THE SOUL'S BOUNDARY LINE

"I never was religious, but this business is changing me and many thousands more," so writes
a soldier. From another soldier's letter we get, "War is the most sobering influence I know
... it sobers their every day. They listen more attentively to the religious services. Sometimes
I wish for the sake of the morals of our army that we were always at war."

When I was in Northern France I came in contact with many wounded French soldiers, men who
had gone to the front as atheists and returned firm believers. "Thank the good God I have really
seen. I fell wounded in twenty-three places they tell me. I fell cursing a God I did not believe
in: then a cold hand was laid upon my brow. I looked up and saw--ah! my God! how beautiful
a Being. Now I do not want, I do not care to live for I want to see that beautiful Being again.
I know I shall. Leave me. See to the others." This was a voluntary statement of a French soldier
who called me to his side simply to light a cigarette for him. I left him perfectly happy and
it was quite true about his number of wounds. He lived only a few hours and he knew that he
was dying. Men do not usually tell lies on their death beds.

Wonderful is the warp and woof of life under fire. It is the parade of the living, the dead
and those on the borderland. Men go through the whole gamut of emotions. War is an object lesson
of laughter and tears playing hide and seek with each other. The tragedy and the comedy follow
close on each other's heels. Deep calls not only to deep but to shallow as well, and in the
end all notes harmonize. Where the swathe of the scythe is wide men's souls expand in heart
qualities. Amidst the wreckage of a battlefield he picks up all kinds of things, every faculty
picks up something and they become contributions to soul force. The greater the gloom the more
the soldier searches for the gleam. Religion and resolution meet in the soldier and give him
deeper vision. He hears his comrade say, "I shall be taken to-day, give this to ----." Examples
of this premonition abound. He enters a bombarded village, the only thing standing intact frequently
is a figure of Christ crucified, or the Madonna looking down upon a mass of crumbling ruin.
These facts are again and again verified by photographs. Often the talk of the camp as the
men settle down by the fire is of the weird and the uncanny that has happened during the day;
and there are pauses when the soldiers stare into the embers and forget to suck their pipes.

To explain the book of life, one would require the scrolls of eternity. War throws light on
some of its stray pages as they flutter for a second on the wings of time and then disappear,
but not before it has flung its cressets of light upon the black pall of doubt. Everyone now
talks of psychic phenomena. In a paltry generation of superficial thinking the subject was
one for jest, but there is far more in it than jesters are likely to discover. Mocking laughter
never discovered anything except the vacuous fool. The appearances of spiritual beings give
but scant opportunity for examination but serious investigation has now taken the place of
cheap sneering. After all religion is founded upon a philosophy of apparitions. The vision
of angels at Mons is no new thing. Catholicism is founded on such visions and no religion worthy
of the name is without its story of angels. New aspects of matter have laid many materialistic
theories in the dust, the mysterious potencies of matter which the latest science is revealing,
the energy of electrons, and radium are giving us a new science of super-sensual physics and
with it new vistas of thought.

It is no longer necessary to apologize for the work of psychic research, that is among intelligent
people. Light is gaining on the darkness. "I felt another hand assisting me to steer," said
a sailor man to me who vainly tried to explain how he kept his boat from what appeared certain
destruction. He would scorn to be called a religious man. "There is nothing of the ranter in
me--you know sir," and he used uncomplimentary remarks which I omit. "But there sir, it was
no skill of mine. All I saw was death and destruction for me and my mates, yet I knew we should
pull through all right. There was another that shipped as passenger in the darkness."

The question of immortality and of the existence of spiritual entities which had been relegated
to the limits of illusions and dreams in Victorian times by the fumbling amateur philosophers
of that day, can now be discussed with quiet in the old philosophic vein which characterized
the great age of thought when Greek sages argued in the Gardens of Athens. This fact alone
justifies a book of the present character. The bumptious and dull ass who announces "Miracles
do not happen," is now seen in true perspective and he cuts a poor figure.

Apparitions, telepathy and clairvoyance are not explanations, but names for facts demanding
separate explanations. In regard to such the "ecclesiastical damn" and the "scientific damn"
have been freely used. If men have been hypnotized by ghost stories, they certainly have been
deluded by stories of unnatural science. To deny activities of life natural and super-natural
is rather silly considering no man has solved the life principle. The atoms forming the material
of the brain may be proved ultimately to be identical with those that compose a jelly-fish
or a jar of margarine, and brain appears to be the organ of mind, but it is mind that grasps
things, places things, and thinks. Life is concerned with thought as well as atoms. It receives
thoughts from all sides, sometimes it claims to detect the thought giver--and that is to have
a fuller vision. Men think quickly on the field of battle. They are not constrained by a narrow
education and a narrower conventionalism to limit their thoughts to what others think in their
own circle.

IV

THE SPIRITUAL ENTITY

Why is it that men in all ages, the best of men, the most gifted of men, with the evidence
of the senses so strongly against them, have believed that a spiritual personal entity survives
death's disaster? That men do so is seen in all literature and witnessed to in all lands. Vedic
hymns, 3,500 years old sing of a spiritual body with as clear a vision as S. Paul. We are collecting
the evidence that has floated down the ages and examining it with a new criticism. The attitude
of "Pooh! Bah!" of Early Victorian times is no longer the mark of superiority. It is now, as
it was then, the mark not only of ignorance but stupid dullness. The frame of mind which used
to dismiss everything with the word "impossible" is now recognized not as science but ignorance.
The researches of a Crookes, of a Sir Oliver Lodge, Myers, Gurney, Rochas, Gabriel Delanne,
Lombroso, in the region of the occult command serious attention. Swedenborg communicated messages
from people who had long passed to their relatives on matters of fact which were found accurate
in every detail.

