After a halt of two hours they proceeded along the ridge, and perceived through the mist a
body of soldiers marching along with drums beating; it was the garrison of Exilles. The Vaudois
were recognised and followed by the soldiers at a distance. Proceeding a little further, they
came in sight of the long valley of the Doire, and looking down into it, not far from the bridge
of Salabertrans, they discerned some thirty-six bivouac fires burning on the plain, indicating
the presence of a large force. These were their enemies--a well-appointed army of some two
thousand five hundred men--whom they were at last to meet in battle. Nothing discouraged, they
descended into the valley, and the advanced guard shortly came in contact with the enemy's
outposts. Firing between them went on for an hour and a half, and then night fell.

The Vaudois leaders held a council to determine what they should do; and the result was, that
an immediate attack was resolved upon, in three bodies. The principal attack was made on the
bridge, the passage of which was defended by a strong body of French soldiers, under the command
of Colonel de Larrey. On the advance of the Vaudois in the darkness, they were summoned to
stand, but continued to advance, when the enemy fired a volley on them, killing three men.
Then the Vaudois brigade rushed to the bridge, but seeing a strong body on the other side preparing
to fire again, Arnaud called upon his men to lie down, and the volley went over their heads.
Then Turrel, the Vaudois captain, calling out "Forward! the bridge is won!" the Vaudois jumped
to their feet and rushed on. The two wings at the same time concentrated their fire on the
defenders, who broke and retired, and the bridge was won. But at the further side, where the
French were in overpowering numbers, they refused to give way, and poured down their fire on
their assailants. The Vaudois boldly pressed on. They burst through the French, force, cutting
it in two; and fresh men pouring over, the battle was soon won. The French, commander was especially
chagrined at having been beaten by a parcel of cowherds. "Is it possible," he exclaimed, "that
I have lost both the battle and my honour?"

The rising moon showed the ground strewed with about seven hundred dead; the Vaudois having
lost only twenty-two killed and eight wounded. The victors filled their pouches with ammunition
picked up on the field, took possession of as many arms and as much provisions as they could
carry, and placing the remainder in a heap over some barrels of powder, they affixed a lighted
match and withdrew. A tremendous explosion shook the mountains, and echoed along the valley,
and the remains of the French camp were blown to atoms. The Vaudois then proceeded at once
to climb the mountain of Sci, which had to be crossed in order to enter the valley of Pragelas.

It was early on a Sabbath morning, the ninth day of their march, that the Vaudois reached the
crest of the mountain overlooking Fenestrelles, and saw spread out before them the beloved
country which they had come to win. They halted for the stragglers, and when these had come
up, Arnaud made them kneel down and thank God for permitting them again to see their native
land; himself offering up an eloquent prayer, which cheered and strengthened them for further
effort. And then they descended into the valley of Pragelas, passing the river Clusone, and
halting to rest at the little village of La Traverse. They were now close to the Vaudois strongholds,
and in a country every foot of which was familiar to most of them. But their danger was by
no means over; for the valleys were swarming with dragoons and foot-soldiers; and when they
had shaken off those of France, they had still to encounter the troops of Savoy.

Late in the afternoon the little army again set out for the valley of St. Martin, passing the
night in the mountain hamlet of Jussand, the highest on the Col du Pis. Next day they descended
the Col near Seras, and first came in contact with the troops of Savoy; but these having taken
to flight, no collision occurred; and on the following day the Vaudois arrived, without further
molestation, at the famous Balsille.

This celebrated stronghold is situated in front of the narrow defile of Macel, which leads
into the valley of St. Martin. It is a rampart of rock, standing at the entrance to the pass,
and is of such natural strength, that but little art was needed to make it secure against any
force that could be brought against it. There is only one approach to it from the valley of
St. Martin, which is very difficult; a portion of the way being in a deep wooded gorge, where
a few men could easily arrest the progress of an army. The rock itself consists of three natural
stages or terraces, the highest part rising steep as a wall, being surmounted by a natural
platform. The mountain was well supplied with water, which gushed forth in several places.
Caverns had been hollowed out in the sides of the rocks, which served as hiding-places during
the persecutions which so often ravaged the valleys; and these were now available for storehouses
and barracks.

The place was, indeed, so intimately identified with the past sufferings and triumphs of the
Vaudois, and it was, besides, so centrally situated, and so secure, that they came to regard
its possession as essential to the success of their enterprise. The aged Javanel, who drew
up the plan of the invasion before the eight hundred set out on their march, attached the greatest
importance to its early occupation. "Spare no labour nor pains," he said, in the memorandum
of directions which he drew up, "in fortifying this post, which will be your most secure fortress.
Do not quit it unless in the utmost extremity.... You will, of course, be told that you cannot
hold it always, and that rather than not succeed in their object, all France and Italy will
gather together against you.... But were it the whole world, and only yourselves against all,
fear ye the Almighty alone, who is your protection."

On the arrival of the Vaudois at the Balsille, they discerned a small body of troops advancing
towards them by the Col du Pis, higher up the valley. They proved to be Piedmontese, forty-six
in number, sent to occupy the pass. They were surrounded, disarmed, and put to death, and their
arms were hid away amongst the rocks. No quarter was given on either side during this war;
the Vaudois had no prisons in which to place their captives; and they themselves, when taken,
were treated not as soldiers, but as bandits, being instantly hung on the nearest trees. The
Vaudois did not, however, yet take up their permanent position at the Balsille, being desirous
of rousing the valleys towards the south. The day following, accordingly, they marched to Pralis,
in the valley of the Germanasca, when, for the first time since their exile, they celebrated
Divine worship in one of the temples of their ancestors.

They were now on their way towards the valley of the Pelice, to reach which it was necessary
that they should pass over the Col Julian. An army of three thousand Piedmontese barred their
way, but nothing daunted by the great disparity of force, the Vaudois, divided into three bodies,
as at Salabertrans, mounted to the assault. As they advanced, the Piedmontese cried, "Come
on, ye devil's Barbets, there are more than three thousand of us, and we occupy all the posts!"
In less than half an hour the whole of the posts were carried, the pass was cleared, and the
Piedmontese fled down the further side of the mountain, leaving all their stores behind them.
On the following day the Vaudois reached Bobi, drove out the new settlers, and resumed possession
of the lands of the commune. Thus, after the lapse of only fourteen days, this little band
of heroes had marched from the shores of the Lake of Geneva, by difficult mountain-passes,
through bands of hostile troops, which they had defeated in two severe fights, and at length
reached the very centre of the Vaudois valleys, and entered into possession of the "Promised Land."

They resolved to celebrate their return to the country of their fathers by an act of solemn
worship on the Sabbath following. The whole body assembled on the hill of Silaoud, commanding
an extensive prospect of the valley, and with their arms piled, and resting under the shade
of the chestnut-trees which crown the hill, they listened to an eloquent sermon from the pastor
Montoux, who preached to them standing on a platform, consisting of a door resting upon two
rocks, after which they chanted the 74th Psalm, to the clash of arms. They then proceeded to
enter into a solemn covenant with each other, renewing the ancient oath of union of the valleys,
and swearing never to rest from their enterprise, even if they should be reduced to only three
or four in number, until they had "re-established in the valleys the kingdom of the Gospel."
Shortly after, they proceeded to divide themselves into two bodies, for the purpose of occupying
simultaneously, as recommended by Javanel, the two valleys of the Pelice and St. Martin.

But the trials and sufferings they had already endured were as nothing compared with those
they were now about to experience. Armies concentrated on them from all points. They were pressed
by the French on the north and west, and by the Piedmontese on the south and east. Encouraged
by their success at Bobi, the Vaudois rashly attacked Villar, lower down the valley, and were
repulsed with loss. From thence they retired up the valley of Rora, and laid it waste; the
enemy, in like manner, destroying the town of Bobi and laying waste the neighbourhood.

The war now became one of reprisals and mutual devastation, the two parties seeking to deprive
each other of shelter and the means of subsistence. The Vaudois could only obtain food by capturing
the enemy's convoys, levying contributions from the plains, and making incursions into Dauphiny.
The enterprise on which they had entered seemed to become more hopeless from day to day. This
handful of men, half famished and clothed in rags, had now arrayed against them twenty-two
thousand French and Sardinians, provided with all the munitions of war. That they should have
been able to stand against them for two whole months, now fighting in one place, and perhaps
the next day some twenty miles across the mountains in another, with almost invariable success,
seems little short of a miracle. But flesh and blood could not endure such toil and privations
much longer. No wonder that the faint-hearted began to despair. Turrel, the military commander,
seeing no chance of a prosperous issue, withdrew across the French frontier, followed by the
greater number of the Vaudois from Dauphiny;[110] and there remained only the Italian Vaudois,
still unconquered in spirit, under the leadership of their pastor-general Arnaud, who never
appeared greater than in times of difficulty and danger.

         [Footnote 110: The greater number of them, including Turrel,
         were taken prisoners and shot, or sent to the galleys, where
         they died. This last was the fate of Turrel.]

With his diminished forces, and the increasing numbers of the enemy, Arnaud found it impossible
to hold both the valleys, as intended; besides, winter was approaching, and the men must think
of shelter and provisions during that season, if resistance was to be prolonged. It was accordingly
determined to concentrate their little force upon the Balsille, and all haste was made to reach
that stronghold without further delay. Their knowledge of the mountain heights and passes enabled
them to evade their enemies, who were watching for them along the valleys, and they passed
from the heights of Rodoret to the summit of the Balsille by night, before it was known that
they were in the neighbourhood. They immediately set to work to throw up entrenchments and
erect barricades, so as to render the place as secure as possible. Foraging parties were sent
out for provisions, to lay in for the winter, and they returned laden with corn from the valley
of Pragelas. At the little hamlet of Balsille they repaired the mill, and set it a-going, the
rivulet which flowed down from the mountain supplying abundance of water-power.

It was at the end of October that the little band of heroes took possession of the Balsille,
and they held it firmly all through the winter. For more than six months they beat back every
force that was sent against them. The first attack was made by the Marquis d'Ombrailles at
the head of a French detachment; but though the enemy reached the village of Balsille, they
were compelled to retire, partly by the bullets of the defenders, and partly by the snow, which
was falling heavily. The Marquis de Parelles next advanced, and summoned the Vaudois to surrender;
but in vain. "Our storms are still louder than your cannon," replied Arnaud, "and yet our rocks
are not shaken." Winter having set in, the besiegers refrained for a time from further attacks,
but strictly guarded all the passes leading to the fortress; while the garrison, availing themselves
of their knowledge of the locality, made frequent sorties into the adjoining valleys, as well
as into those of Dauphiny, for the purpose of collecting provisions, in which they were usually
successful.

When the fine weather arrived, suitable for a mountain campaign, the French general, Catinat,
assembled a strong force, and marched into the valley, determined to make short work of this
little nest of bandits on the Balsille. On Sunday morning, the 30th of April, 1690, while Arnaud
was preaching to his flock, the sentinels on the look-out discovered the enemy's forces swarming
up the valley. Soon other bodies were seen approaching by the Col du Pis and the Col du Clapier,
while a French regiment, supported by the Savoyard militia, climbed Mont Guinevert, and cut
off all retreat in that quarter. In short, the Balsille was completely invested.

A general assault was made on the position on the 2nd of May, under the direction of General
Catinat in person. Three French regiments, supported by a regiment of dragoons, opened the
attack in front; Colonel de Parat, who commanded the leading regiment, saying to his soldiers
as they advanced, "My friends, we must sleep to-night in that barrack," pointing to the rude
Vaudois fort on the summit of the Balsille. They advanced with great bravery; but the barricade
could not be surmounted, while they were assailed by a perfect storm of bullets from the defenders,
securely posted above.

Catinat next ordered the troops stationed on the Guinevert to advance from that direction,
so as to carry the position from behind. But the assailants found unexpected intrenchments
in their way, from behind which the Vaudois maintained a heavy fire, that eventually drove
them back, their retreat being accelerated by a shower of stones and a blinding fall of snow
and hail. In the meantime, the attack on the bastion in front continued, and the Vaudois, seeing
the French troops falling back in disorder, made a vigorous sortie, and destroyed the whole
remaining force, excepting fifteen men, who fled, bare-headed and without arms, and carried
to the camp the news of their total defeat.

A Savoyard officer thus briefly described the issue of the disastrous affair in a letter to
a friend: "I have only time to tell you that the French have failed in their attack on the
Balsille, and they have been obliged to retire after having lost one hundred and fifty soldiers,
three captains, besides subalterns and wounded, including a colonel and a lieutenant-colonel
who have been made prisoners, with the two sergeants who remained behind to help them. The
lieutenant-colonel was surprised at finding in the fort some nineteen or twenty officers in
gold and silver lace, who treated him as a prisoner of war and very humanely, even allowing
him to go in search of the surgeon-major of his regiment for the purpose of bringing him into
the place, and doing all that was necessary."

Catinat did not choose again to renew the attack in person, or to endanger his reputation by
a further defeat at the hands of men whom he had described as a nest of paltry bandits, but
entrusted the direction of further operations to the Marquis de Féuquières, who had his laurels
still to win, while Catinat had his to lose. The Balsille was again completely invested by
the 12th of May, according to the scheme of operations prepared by Catinat, and the Marquis
received by anticipation the title of "Conqueror of the Barbets." The entire mountain was surrounded,
all the passes were strongly guarded, guns were planted in positions which commanded the Vaudois
fort, more particularly on the Guinevert; and the capture or extermination of the Vaudois was
now regarded as a matter of certainty. The attacking army was divided into five corps. Each
soldier was accompanied by a pioneer carrying a fascine, in order to form a cover against the
Vaudois bullets as they advanced.

Several days elapsed before all the preliminaries for the grand attack were completed, and
then the Marquis ordered a white flag to be hoisted, and a messenger was sent forward, inviting
a parley with the defenders of the Balsille. The envoy was asked what he wanted. "Your immediate
surrender!" was the reply. "You shall each of you receive five hundred louis d'or, and good
passports for your retirement to a foreign country; but if you resist, you will be infallibly
destroyed." "That is as the Lord shall will," replied the Vaudois messenger.

The defenders refused to capitulate on any terms. The Marquis himself then wrote to the Vaudois,
offering them terms on the above basis, but threatening, in case of refusal, that every man
of them would be hung. Arnaud's reply was heroic. "We are not subjects," he said, "of the King
of France; and that monarch not being master of this country, we can enter into no treaty with
his servants. We are in the heritage which our fathers have left to us, and we hope, with the
help of the God of armies, to live and die in it, even though there may remain only ten of
us to defend it." That same night the Vaudois made a vigorous sortie, and killed a number of
the besiegers: this was their final answer to the summons to surrender.

On the 14th of May the battery on Mont Guinevert was opened, and the enemy's cannon began to
play upon the little fort and bastions, which, being only of dry stones, were soon dismantled.
The assault was then made simultaneously on three sides; and after a stout resistance, the
Vaudois retired from their lower intrenchments, and retreated to those on the higher ledges
of the mountain. They continued their resistance until night, and then, taking counsel together,
and feeling that the place was no longer defensible in the face of so overpowering a force,
commanded, as it was, at the same time by the cannon on the adjoining heights, they determined
to evacuate the Balsille, after holding it for a period of nearly seven months.

