If we enter the borough of Fulham at the Hammersmith end, we come upon one of the most interesting
associations of the whole district, just before the North End Road makes a decided bend. Here
are two houses, formerly one, called the Grange, in which the novelist Samuel Richardson passed
the greater part of his life. This pompous, vain little man, who never to the end of his life
abated one whit of his savage envy of his successful contemporaries, was endowed with the genius
of originality which prompted him to write as no one had ever thought of writing before. He
remained here until 1755, when he moved to Parsons Green. He had begun life as one of the nine
children of a man of small means, and was apprenticed to a printer. This work he carried on
long after the necessity for it had ceased, for he was above all things punctual, methodical,
neat, and entirely the opposite in character to that usually ascribed to genius. To a man of
his type it seems almost sinful to give up routine work in order to depend on the work of imagination.
He had a house at Salisbury Court near his business premises, and the Grange at North End was
his country residence. Here he composed "Sir Charles Grandison" and "Clarissa," writing for
the most part in a grotto in the garden, where the admiring circle of women who adored him,
and whose effusive flattery he ever received with pleasure, paid court to him. He was twice
married, and while at North End was living with his second wife and their four daughters. Thus
he was surrounded by womenkind, who forgave him all faults on account of his appreciation of
sentimentality.

The house is distinctly picturesque. The southern half is of red brick, and is surrounded by
a high wall, in which is a gateway with tall red-brick piers surmounted by stone balls. Over
the wall hangs an acacia-tree, and on the front of the house is an old sundial--altogether
a house one could well associate with an imaginative novelist. It was the residence of the
late Sir Edward Burne-Jones, Bart. The other part of the house has been painted a light stone
colour. Even as early as 1813 the Grange had been divided into two houses.

St. Mary's Church, facing the Hammersmith Road, is in Fulham. It was built by a Mr. Richard
Hunt, to whose memory there is a tablet on the wall, and was opened as a chapel of ease in
1814. Some fine carving on the north side of the chancel and the oak panelling of the gallery
were brought from Lady Mary Coke's old mansion at Chiswick.

In 1860 the site of Edith Road was, according to Crofton Croker, to be let on building lease.
In it, Croker says, "once stood the house of Cipriani." But there is some doubt as to the exact
site of Cipriani's house, which is also claimed for Great Church Lane, Hammersmith (see p.
7). Cipriani lived in England from 1755 to 1785, and his works were largely engraved by Bartolozzi,
who also had a house at North End.

Further south, to the east of Queen's Club grounds, are a maze of new streets, in one of which,
Castletown Road, is a large and fine Congregational chapel and hall. The chapel has a square
tower rising to a considerable height, and the roof is supported by flying buttresses. This
is an offshoot of the Allen Street Congregational Chapel, whose trustees still have the control
and help to support it financially. The foundation-stone was the last laid by the late Earl
of Shaftesbury, November 22, 1882.

The well-known Earl's Court Exhibition has an entrance in the North End Road. It occupies the
area between this on the one side, and Eardley Crescent and Philbeach Gardens on the other,
and is the largest exhibition open in London. It belongs partly to Kensington and partly to
Fulham, for the boundary line is close to the railway.

St. Andrew's Church, at the corner of Greyhound and Vereker Roads, was built in 1873. It has
a spire, and differs little from the accepted model.

The entrance to Queen's Club grounds is in the Comeragh Road. On the right of the gate is a
grand-stand, from which a fine view of the eleven or twelve acres of ground can be obtained.
Along the west side run the principal buildings, including secretary's offices, grand-stands,
tennis and fives courts, etc. The covered lawn-tennis courts are laid with great care and expense,
the floors being of American maple, screwed and fitted over a patent wooden floor to insure
absolute accuracy. The ladies' lawn-tennis championship is played off here. The great public
event of the year is the Oxford and Cambridge sports, which in interest rank after the boat-race
and cricket-match.

Close to Queen's Club is the Hammersmith cemetery, an extensive piece of ground of some twenty
acres. There is a broad gravel walk down the centre, and two small chapels, round which the
graves are thickly clustered, spreading gradually westward as space is required. The first
burial took place in 1869. The principal entrance is in the Margravine Road. The significance
of this unexpected name in such a position is explained by the fact that the Margravine of
Brandenburg-Anspach had a house near the river in this part for many years. It is described
in detail below.

Just across the road is the Fulham and Hammersmith Union Workhouse and Infirmary, facing Fulham
Palace Road. Between the workhouse and the river is a stretch of land used by market-gardeners.
It was by the riverside that Brandenburg House, built by Sir Nicholas Crispe in the beginning
of Charles I.'s reign, was situated. General Fairfax quartered himself here in 1647 during
the Civil War, and his troops afterwards plundered the house; but at the close of the war Sir
Nicholas returned and restored his property to its former state. After his death in 1666 it
descended to his nephew, who sold it seventeen years later to Prince Rupert, who gave it to
Margaret Hughes. It passed through the possession of various owners. One of these, George Dodington,
afterwards Lord Melcombe, repaired and modernized it, altering the name to La Trappe. In 1792
it became the property of the Margrave of Brandenburg-Anspach and Bayreuth, and at his death
the Margravine, formerly Lady Craven, continued to live there. Faulkner gives a minute account
of the house and a long inventory of all the pictures in it while it was the residence of this
lady. She built a theatre near the waterside, and herself took part in the performances. Bills
of the plays in which her name appears are still extant. One of them is preserved in the Hammersmith
Free Library. Though Brandenburg House was situated in Fulham, it is often described and spoken
of as in Hammersmith. This is perhaps owing to its connection with Sir Nicholas Crispe, who
was a great benefactor to the latter parish, and perhaps because the house existed when Hammersmith
and Fulham were still one parish. Lysons says that during the interregnum it was proposed to
make the hamlet of Hammersmith parochial, and add to it Sir Nicholas Crispe's house and a part
of North End, but, as stated, the separation of the parishes did not take place until 1834.

On May 3, 1820, Queen Caroline, wife of George IV., came to live at Brandenburg House, and
on the fifteenth of that month was presented with a congratulatory address by the inhabitants
of Hammersmith. On the abandonment of the Bill of "Pains and Penalties" by the House of Lords
she received a second address. She had been petitioned by people of all classes and conditions
during the progress of the Bill, the demonstration of the watermen and lightermen of the Thames
on October 8 having been especially noticeable. The Queen had stood on the balcony of her residence
and bowed her acknowledgments to the enthusiastic crowd. The Queen died in 1821, and the King
caused the house to be destroyed shortly afterwards, it is said, in jealousy of her popularity.

In a villa near Brandenburg House lived Mrs. Billington, the famous singer, who died at Venice
in 1818. At her death Sir John Sibbald, a Civil Servant of the East India Company, and at one
time Ambassador to the Court of Hyder Ali Khan, bought the house. It was tenanted later by
the novelist Captain Marryat, R.N. Southward there is a large extent of ground devoted to market-gardens,
for which Fulham has long been famous. This is broken only by a few houses about Crabtree Alley
and Crabtree Lane. Close to the latter is St. Clement's Church, of yellow brick, consecrated
in 1886. The reredos painting is in the early Florentine style, and represents the Resurrection.
There are several stained-glass windows and a handsome wrought-iron chancel-screen. The font
and its cover were originally at St. Matthew's, Friday Street. Opposite to the church is a
public recreation-ground, and south of it the Fulham cemetery, not so large, but more thickly
planted with shrubs than that of Hammersmith, already noted.

St. James's Diocesan Home for Penitents is on the river side of the Fulham Palace Road. It
was originally established in 1856, though it was not then in Hammersmith. Funds failed, and
the institution would have come to an untimely end but for the intervention of the then Bishop
of London, who made the Home diocesan; the present building was erected in 1871. The total
number of inmates at present is 76. These are employed at laundry and needle work, etc. The
penitents are divided into three classes, and are employed according to their position. Very
nearly opposite to the Home are the Fulham Waste Land and Lygon Almshouses. The buildings form
two sides of a square, the sides being respectively for married and single pensioners. The
latter may be of either sex. The married couples have two rooms and a small scullery, and receive
8s. a week. The single persons have one room, with 5s. per week. The houses are neatly built
of brick with slate roofs and high chimneys. In the centre there is a room used as a chapel.
There are altogether fourteen inmates. On a stone let into the wall nearest the road is the
inscription: "The Fulham Waste Land and Lygon Almshouses, founded 1833 and rebuilt 1886. This
stone was laid by Frederick, Lord Bishop of London, April 21, 1886."

The origin of the double name was in this wise: The vestry of the parish of Fulham and Hammersmith
in 1810 had a fund of money derived from the enclosure of certain waste lands belonging to
the parish. By 1833 this fund had so much increased that it was resolved to build almshousess,
which were accordingly erected on a piece of land in the Dawes Road. In the beginning of the
eighties Lady Lygon bought a piece of land in the Fulham Palace Road for the purpose of founding
almshouses on it. This project was never carried out, and the ground was eventually given to
the Waste Land Trustees, who built the present almshouses on it in 1886.

The part of Fulham to the east of the Fulham Palace Road is very dreary; long, dull streets,
lined by small houses and varied by small chapels and big Board schools, constitute an area
at the best highly respectable, and at the worst squalid. It is useless to enumerate all the
churches and chapels that have sprung up here, particularly as there are none of any architectural
or historical interest. They have been built from time to time to meet the rapid increase of
population in a growing district that will doubtless soon spread over the market-gardens that
now reach the river. The principal churches are St. Augustine's, in Lillie Road, of red brick
with freestone dressings; and St. Peter's, in Reporton Road, which contains a pulpit that might
make more ancient churches proud, for it is of carved oak, and is supposed to be the work of
Grinling Gibbons. It came from St. Matthew's, Friday Street. The Church of St. Thomas of Canterbury
in Rylston Road is Roman Catholic, and was designed by Pugin, who also designed the altars
and reredos of the minor chapels in it.

Lillie Road is so named after Sir John Lillie, who was a director of the East India Company
and lived at Fulham. To Normand House in Normand Road there is some interest attached. The
name is supposed to be a corruption of "No-man." Bowack alludes to it thus: "There is also
a handsome ancient seat in Fulham Field called No-Man's-Land House, now belonging to ---- Wild,
Esq. The piece of ground which it stands on was known as No-Man's-Land." The date 1664 is worked
into the iron scroll-work of a gateway. The house has been considerably added to from time
to time, but the wide, low passage with its pretty archways and panelling, which is seen on
entrance, is distinctly one of the oldest parts. Two staircases, one of which is carved with
the Tudor roses, are very picturesque. Many of the rooms are panelled. Crofton Croker gives
the date incorrectly as 1661. He adds: "It is said to have been used as a hospital for persons
recovering from the Great Plague in 1665." Sir E. Bulwer Lytton resided here at one time. Later
on it was used as a lunatic asylum, and was so when Thorne wrote his "Environs" in 1876. It
is now the Community of the Sisters of St. Katherine for the work of assisting and rescuing
young women convicted of a first offence or discharged for dishonesty without conviction, but
otherwise of good moral character. The girls are employed in house and laundry work, which
is taken in from outside, and the proceeds go to the funds. After two years' training they
are placed in service. This institution has a branch at Hammersmith, and a small one at Walham.
It belongs to the Church of England. In Lillie Road, to the east of North End Road, is the
Mount Carmel Hermitage. This convent is a red-brick building with a small chapel attached,
erected in 1880 by some French Sisters who had come to London in 1865, and settled at Fulham
in 1867 in a house near the site of the present convent. There are eleven nuns, of whom three
are lay Sisters. They are devoted to the contemplative life. Just opposite is a large brewery,
established 1867. At the east end of Eustace Road is a small brick Wesleyan chapel, hidden
away in a corner, which deserves a word of mention, as it is a German chapel and the services
are in that language.

The Fulham Congregational Church in Dawes Road is a large building of red brick with stone
facings, opened on April 5, 1887. There is a lecture-room beneath, besides library, class-rooms,
and infant Sunday-school.

