 Will ye
apply for shares?"

"I think I'll tak' twa hundred. Wha's Sir Polloxfen Tremens?"

"He'll be yin o' the Ayrshire folk. He used to rin horses at the Paisley races."

("The devil he did!" thought I.)

"D'ye ken ony o' the directors, Jimsy?"

"I ken Sawley fine. Ye may depend on't, it's a gude thing if he's in't, for he's a howkin' body."

"Then it's sure to gae up. What prem. d'ye think it will bring?"

"Twa pund a share, and maybe mair."

"'Od, I'll apply for three hundred!"

"Heaven bless you, my dear countrymen!" thought I as I sallied forth to refresh myself with
a basin of soup, "do but maintain this liberal and patriotic feeling--this thirst for national
improvement, internal communication, and premiums--a short while longer, and I know whose fortune
will be made."

On the following morning my breakfast-table was covered with shoals of letters, from fellows
whom I scarcely ever had spoken to--or who, to use a franker phraseology, had scarcely ever
condescended to speak to me--entreating my influence as a director to obtain them shares in
the new undertaking. I never bore malice in my life, so I chalked them down, without favouritism,
for a certain proportion. Whilst engaged in this charitable work, the door flew open, and M'Corkindale,
looking utterly haggard with excitement, rushed in.

"You may buy an estate whenever you please, Dunshunner," cried he, "the world's gone perfectly
mad! I have been to Blazes the broker, and he tells me that the whole amount of the stock has
been subscribed for four times over already, and he has not yet got in the returns from Edinburgh
and Liverpool!"

"Are they good names though, Bob--sure cards--none of your M'Closkies, and M'Alcohols?"

"The first names in the city, I assure you, and most of them holders for investment. I wouldn't
take ten millions for their capital."

"Then the sooner we close the list the better."

"I think so too. I suspect a rival company will be out before long. Blazes says the shares
are selling already conditionally on allotment, at seven-and-sixpence premium."

"The deuce they are! I say, Bob, since we have the cards in our hands, would it not be wise
to favour them with a few hundreds at that rate? A bird in the hand, you know, is worth two
in the bush, eh?"

"I know no such maxim in political economy," replied the secretary. "Are you mad, Dunshunner?
How are the shares ever to go up, if it gets wind that the directors are selling already? Our
business just now, is to bull the line, not to bear it; and if you will trust me, I shall show
them such an operation on the ascending scale, as the Stock Exchange has not witnessed for
this long and many a day. Then, to-morrow, I shall advertise in the papers that the committee,
having received applications for ten times the amount of stock, have been compelled, unwillingly,
to close the lists. That will be a slap in the face to the dilatory gentlemen, and send up
the shares like wildfire."

Bob was right. No sooner did the advertisement appear, than a simultaneous groan was uttered
by some hundreds of disappointed speculators, who with unwonted and unnecessary caution had
been anxious to see their way a little before committing themselves to our splendid enterprise.
In consequence, they rushed into the market, with intense anxiety to make what terms they could
at the earliest stage, and the seven-and-sixpence of premium was doubled in the course of a
forenoon.

The allocation passed over very peaceably. Sawley, Heckles, Jobson, Grabbie, and the Captain
of M'Alcohol, besides myself, attended, and took part in the business. We were also threatened
with the presence of the M'Closkie and Vich-Induibh; but M'Corkindale, entertaining some reasonable
doubts as to the effect which their corporeal appearance might have upon the representatives
of the dissenting interest, had taken the precaution to get them snugly housed in a tavern,
where an unbounded supply of gratuitous Ferintosh deprived us of the benefit of their experience.
We, however, allotted them twenty shares a-piece. Sir Polloxfen Tremens sent a handsome, though
rather illegible letter of apology, dated from an island in Lochlomond, where he was said to
be detained on particular business.

Mr Sawley, who officiated as our chairman, was kind enough, before parting, to pass a very
flattering eulogium upon the excellence and candour of all the preliminary arrangements. It
would now, he said, go forth to the public that this line was not, like some others he could
mention, a mere bubble, emanating from the stank of private interest, but a solid, lasting
superstructure, based upon the principles of sound return for capital, and serious evangelical
truth (hear, hear). The time was fast approaching, when the gravestone, with the words "HIC
OBIIT" chiselled upon it, would be placed at the head of all the other lines which rejected
the grand opportunity of conveying education to the stoker. The stoker, in his (Mr Sawley's)
opinion, had a right to ask the all-important question, "Am I not a man and a brother?" (Cheers).
Much had been said and written lately about a work called Tracts for the Times. With the opinions
contained in that publication he was not conversant, as it was conducted by persons of another
community from that to which he (Mr Sawley) had the privilege to belong. But he hoped very
soon, under the auspices of the Glenmutchkin Railway Company, to see a new periodical established,
under the title of Tracts for the Trains. He never for a moment would relax his efforts to
knock a nail into the coffin, which, he might say, was already made, and measured, and cloth-covered
for the reception of all establishments; and with these sentiments, and the conviction that
the shares must rise, could it be doubted that he would remain a fast friend to the interests
of this Company for ever? (Much cheering.)

After having delivered this address, Mr Sawley affectionately squeezed the hands of his brother
directors, and departed, leaving several of us much overcome. As, however, M'Corkindale had
told me that every one of Sawley's shares had been disposed of in the market the day before,
I felt less compunction at having refused to allow that excellent man an extra thousand beyond
the amount he had applied for, notwithstanding of his broadest hints, and even private entreaties.

"Confound the greedy hypocrite!" said Bob; "does he think we shall let him Burke the line for
nothing? No--no! I let him go to the brokers and buy his shares back, if he thinks they are
likely to rise. I'll be bound he has made a cool five hundred out of them already."

On the day which succeeded the allocation, the following entry appeared in the Glasgow share-lists.
"Direct Glenmutchkin Railway 15s. 15s. 6d. 15s. 6d. 16s. 15s. 6d. 16s. 16s. 6d. 16s. 6d. 16s.
17s. 18s. 18s. 19s. 6d. 21s. 21s. 22s. 6d. 24s. 25s. 6d. 27s. 29s. 29s. 6d. 30s. 31s. pm."

"They might go higher, and they ought to go higher," said Bob musingly; "but there's not much
more stock to come and go upon, and these two share-sharks, Jobson and Grabbie, I know, will
be in the market to-morrow. We must not let them have the whip-hand of us. I think upon the
whole, Dunshunner, though it's letting them go dog cheap, that we ought to sell half our shares
at the present premium, whilst there is a certainty of getting it."

"Why not sell the whole? I'm sure I have no objections to part with every stiver of the scrip
on such terms."

"Perhaps," said Bob, "upon general principles you may be right; but then remember that we have
a vested interest in the line."

"Vested interest be hanged!"

"That's very well--at the same time it is no use to kill your salmon in a hurry. The bulls
have done their work pretty well for us, and we ought to keep something on hand for the bears;
they are snuffing at it already. I could almost swear that some of those fellows who have sold
to-day are working for a time-bargain."

We accordingly got rid of a couple of thousand shares, the proceeds of which not only enabled
us to discharge the deposit loan, but left us a material surplus. Under these circumstances,
a two-handed banquet was proposed and unanimously carried, the commencement of which I distinctly
remember, but am rather dubious as to the end. So many stories have lately been circulated
to the prejudice of railway directors, that I think it my duty to state that this entertainment
was scrupulously defrayed by ourselves, and not carried to account, either of the preliminary
survey, or the expenses of the provisional committee.

Nothing effects so great a metamorphosis in the bearing of the outer man, as a sudden change
of fortune. The anemone of the garden differs scarcely more from its unpretending prototype
of the woods, than Robert M'Corkindale, Esq., Secretary and Projector of the Glenmutchkin Railway,
differed from Bob M'Corkindale, the seedy frequenter of "The Crow." In the days of yore, men
eyed the surtout--napless at the velvet collar, and preternaturally white at the seams--which
Bob vouchsafed to wear, with looks of dim suspicion, as if some faint reminiscence, similar
to that which is said to recall the memory of a former state of existence, suggested to them
a notion that the garment had once been their own. Indeed, his whole appearance was then wonderfully
second-hand. Now he had cast his slough. A most undeniable Taglioni, with trimmings just bordering
upon frogs, gave dignity to his demeanour and twofold amplitude to his chest. The horn eyeglass
was exchanged for one of purest gold, the dingy high-lows for well-waxed Wellingtons, the Paisley
fogle for the fabric of the China loom. Moreover, he walked with a swagger, and affected in
common conversation a peculiar dialect which he opined to be the purest English, but which
no one--except a bagman--could be reasonably expected to understand. His pockets were invariably
crammed with share-lists; and he quoted, if he did not comprehend, the money article from the
Times. This sort of assumption, though very ludicrous in itself, goes down wonderfully. Bob
gradually became a sort of authority, and his opinions got quoted on 'Change. He was no ass,
notwithstanding his peculiarities, and made good use of his opportunity.

For myself, I bore my new dignities with an air of modest meekness. A certain degree of starchness
is indispensable for a railway director, if he means to go forward in his high calling and
prosper; he must abandon all juvenile eccentricities, and aim at the appearance of a decided
enemy to free trade in the article of Wild Oats. Accordingly, as the first step towards respectability,
I eschewed coloured waistcoats, and gave out that I was a marrying man. No man under forty,
unless he is a positive idiot, will stand forth as a XXXX theoretical bachelor. It is all nonsense
to say that there is anything unpleasant in being courted. Attention, whether from male or
female, tickles the vanity; and although I have a reasonable, and, I hope, not unwholesome
regard for the gratification of my other appetites, I confess that this same vanity is by far
the most poignant of the whole. I therefore surrendered myself freely to the soft allurements
thrown in my way by such matronly denizens of Glasgow as were possessed of stock in the shape
of marriageable daughters; and walked the more readily into their toils, because every party,
though nominally for the purposes of tea, wound up with a hot supper, and something hotter
still by way of assisting the digestion.

I don't know whether it was my determined conduct at the allocation, my territorial title,
or a most exaggerated idea of my circumstances, that worked upon the mind of Mr Sawley. Possibly
it was a combination of the three; but sure enough few days had elapsed before I received a
formal card of invitation to a tea and serious conversation. Now serious conversation is a
sort of thing that I never shone in, possibly because my early studies were framed in a different
direction; but as I really was unwilling to offend the respectable coffin-maker, and as I found
that the Captain of M'Alcohol--a decided trump in his way--had also received a summons, I notified
my acceptance.

M'Alcohol and I went together. The Captain, an enormous brawny Celt, with superhuman whiskers,
and a shock of the fieriest hair, had figged himself out, more majorum, in the full Highland
costume. I never saw Rob Roy on the stage look half so dignified or ferocious. He glittered
from head to foot, with dirk, pistol, and skean-dhu, and at least a hundred-weight of cairngorms
cast a prismatic glory around his person. I felt quite abashed beside him.

We were ushered into Mr Sawley's drawing-room. Round the walls, and at considerable distances
from each other, were seated about a dozen characters, male and female, all of them dressed
in sable, and wearing countenances of woe. Sawley advanced, and wrung me by the hand with so
piteous an expression of visage, that I could not help thinking some awful catastrophe had
just befallen his family.

"You are welcome, Mr Dunshunner--welcome to my humble tabernacle. Let me present you to Mrs
Sawley"--and a lady, who seemed to have bathed in the Yellow Sea, rose from her seat, and favoured
me with a profound curtsy.

"My daughter--Miss Selina Sawley."

I felt in my brain the scorching glance of the two darkest eyes it ever was my fortune to behold,
as the beauteous Selina looked up from the perusal of her handkerchief hem. It was a pity that
the other features were not corresponding; for the nose was flat, and the mouth of such dimensions,
that a Harlequin might have jumped down it with impunity--but the eyes were splendid.

In obedience to a sign from the hostess, I sank into a chair beside Selina; and not knowing
exactly what to say, hazarded some observation about the weather.

"Yes, it is indeed a suggestive season. How deeply, Mr Dunshunner, we ought to feel the pensive
progress of autumn towards a soft and premature decay! I always think, about this time of the
year, that nature is falling into a consumption!"

"To be sure, ma'am," said I, rather taken aback by this style of colloquy, "the trees are looking
devilishly hectic."

"Ah, you have remarked that too! Strange! it was but yesterday that I was wandering through
Kelvin Grove, and as the phantom breeze brought down the withered foliage from the spray, I
thought how probable it was that they might ere long rustle over young and glowing hearts deposited
prematurely in the tomb!"

This, which struck me as a very passable imitation of Dickens's pathetic writings, was a poser.
In default of language, I looked Miss Sawley straight in the face, and attempted a substitute
for a sigh. I was rewarded with a tender glance.

"Ah!" said she, "I see you are a congenial spirit. How delightful, and yet how rare it is to
meet with any one who thinks in unison with yourself! Do you ever walk in the Necropolis, Mr
Dunshunner? It is my favourite haunt of a morning. There we can wean ourselves, as it were,
from life, and, beneath the melancholy yew and cypress, anticipate the setting star. How often
there have I seen the procession--the funeral of some very, very little child"----

"Selina, my love," said Mrs Sawley, "have the kindness to ring for the cookies."

