A sufficient account of the other fragments will be found in Holder's list. In 1855 M. Kall-Rasmussen
found in the private archives at Kronborg a scrap of fourteenth century MS., containing a short
passage from Bk. vii. Five years later G. F. Lassen found, at Copenhagen, a fragment of Bk.
vi believed to be written in North Zealand, and in the opinion of Bruun belonging to the same
codex as Kall-Rasmussen's fragment. Of another longish piece, found in Copenhagen at the end
of the seventeenth century by Johannes Laverentzen, and belonging to a codex burnt in the fire
of 1728, a copy still extant in the Copenhagen Museum, was made by Otto Sperling. For fragments,
either extant or alluded to, of the later books, the student should consult the carefully collated
text of Holder. The whole MS. material, therefore, covers but a little of Saxo's work, which
was practically saved for Europe by the perseverance and fervour for culture of a single man,
Bishop Urne.

SAXO AS A WRITER.

Saxo's countrymen have praised without stint his remarkable style, for he has a style. It is
often very bad; but he writes, he is not in vain called Grammaticus, the man of letters. His
style is not merely remarkable considering its author's difficulties; it is capable at need
of pungency and of high expressiveness. His Latin is not that of the Golden Age, but neither
is it the common Latin of the Middle Ages. There are traces of his having read Virgil and Cicero.
But two writers in particular left their mark on him. The first and most influential is Valerius
Maximus, the mannered author of the "Memorabilia", who lived in the first half of the first
century, and was much relished in the Middle Ages. From him Saxo borrowed a multitude of phrases,
sometimes apt but often crabbed and deformed, as well as an exemplary and homiletic turn of
narrative. Other idioms, and perhaps the practice of interspersing verses amid prose (though
this also was a twelfth century Icelandic practice), Saxo found in a fifth-century writer,
Martianus Capella, the pedantic author of the "De Nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii" Such models
may have saved him from a base mediaeval vocabulary; but they were not worthy of him, and they
must answer for some of his falsities of style. These are apparent. His accumulation of empty
and motley phrase, like a garish bunch of coloured bladders; his joy in platitude and pomposity,
his proneness to say a little thing in great words, are only too easy to translate. We shall
be well content if our version also gives some inkling of his qualities; not only of what Erasmus
called his "wonderful vocabulary, his many pithy sayings, and the excellent variety of his
images"; but also of his feeling for grouping, his barbaric sense of colour, and his stateliness.
For he moves with resource and strength both in prose and verse, and is often only hindered
by his own wealth. With no kind of critical tradition to chasten him, his force is often misguided
and his work shapeless; but he stumbles into many splendours.

FOLK LORE INDEX.

The mass of archaic incidents, beliefs, and practices recorded by the 12th-century writer seemed
to need some other classification than a bare alphabetic index. The present plan, a subject-index
practically, has been adopted with a view to the needs of the anthropologist and folk-lorist.
Its details have been largely determined by the bulk and character of the entries themselves.
No attempt has been made to supply full parallels from any save the more striking and obvious
old Scandinavian sources, the end being to classify material rather than to point out its significance
of geographic distribution. With regard to the first three heads, the reader who wishes to
see how Saxo compares with the Old Northern poems may be referred to the Grimm Centenary papers,
Oxford, 1886, and the Corpus Poeticurn Boreale, Oxford, 1883.

POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS.

King--As portrayed by Saxo, the ideal king should be (as in "Beowulf's Lay") generous, brave
and just. He should be a man of accomplishments, of unblemished body, presumably of royal kin
(peasant-birth is considered a bar to the kingship), usually a son or a nephew, or brother
of his foregoer (though no strict rule of succession seems to appear in Saxo), and duly chosen
and acknowledged at the proper place of election. In Denmark this was at a stone circle, and
the stability of these stones was taken as an omen for the king's reign. There are exceptional
instances noted, as the serf-king Eormenric (cf. Guthred-Canute of Northumberland), whose noble
birth washed out this blot of his captivity, and there is a curious tradition of a conqueror
setting his hound as king over a conquered province in mockery.

The king was of age at twelve. A king of seven years of age has twelve Regents chosen in the
Moot, in one case by lot, to bring him up and rule for him till his majority. Regents are all
appointed in Denmark, in one case for lack of royal blood, one to Scania, one to Zealand, one
to Funen, two to Jutland. Underkings and Earls are appointed by kings, and though the Earl's
office is distinctly official, succession is sometimes given to the sons of faithful fathers.
The absence of a settled succession law leads (as in Muslim States) to rebellions and plots.

Kings sometimes abdicated, giving up the crown perforce to a rival, or in high age to a kinsman.
In heathen times, kings, as Thiodwulf tells us in the case of Domwald and Yngwere, were sometimes
sacrificed for better seasons (African fashion), and Wicar of Norway perishes, like Iphigeneia,
to procure fair winds. Kings having to lead in war, and sometimes being willing to fight wagers
of battle, are short-lived as a rule, and assassination is a continual peril, whether by fire
at a time of feast, of which there are numerous examples, besides the classic one on which
Biarea-mal is founded and the not less famous one of Hamlet's vengeance, or whether by steel,
as with Hiartuar, or by trick, as in Wicar's case above cited. The reward for slaying a king
is in one case 120 gold lbs.; 19 "talents" of gold from each ringleader, 1 oz. of gold from
each commoner, in the story of Godfred, known as Ref's gild, "i.e., Fox tax". In the case of
a great king, Frode, his death is concealed for three years to avoid disturbance within and
danger from without. Captive kings were not as a rule well treated. A Slavonic king, Daxo,
offers Ragnar's son Whitesark his daughter and half his realm, or death, and the captive strangely
desires death by fire. A captive king is exposed, chained to wild beasts, thrown into a serpent-pit,
wherein Ragnar is given the fate of the elder Gunnar in the Eddic Lays, Atlakvida. The king
is treated with great respect by his people, he is finely clad, and his commands are carried
out, however abhorrent or absurd, as long as they do not upset customary or statute law. The
king has slaves in his household, men and women, besides his guard of housecarles and his bearsark
champions. A king's daughter has thirty slaves with her, and the footmaiden existed exactly
as in the stories of the Wicked Waiting Maid. He is not to be awakened in his slumbers (cf.
St. Olaf's Life, where the naming of King Magnus is the result of adherence to this etiquette).
A champion weds the king's leman.

His thanes are created by the delivery of a sword, which the king bolds by the blade and the
thane takes by the hilt. (English earls were created by the girding with a sword. "Taking treasure,
and weapons and horses, and feasting in a hall with the king" is synonymous with thane-hood
or gesith-ship in "Beowulf's Lay"). A king's thanes must avenge him if he falls, and owe him
allegiance. (This was paid in the old English monarchies by kneeling and laying the head down
at the lord's knee.)

The trick by which the Mock-king, or King of the Beggars (parallel to our Boy-bishop, and perhaps
to that enigmatic churls' King of the "O. E. Chronicle", s.a. 1017, Eadwiceorla-kyning) gets
allegiance paid to him, and so secures himself in his attack on the real king, is cleverly
devised. The king, besides being a counsel giver himself, and speaking the law, has "counsellors",
old and wise men, "sapientes" (like the 0. E. Thyle). The aged warrior counsellor, as Starcad
here and Master Hildebrand in the "Nibelungenlied", is one type of these persons, another is
the false counsellor, as Woden in guise of Bruni, another the braggart, as Hunferth in "Beowulf's
Lay". At "moots" where laws are made, kings and regents chosen, cases judged, resolutions taken
of national importance, there are discussions, as in that armed most the host.

The king has, beside his estates up and down the country, sometimes (like Hrothgar with his
palace Heorot in "Beowulf's Lay") a great fort and treasure house, as Eormenric, whose palace
may well have really existed. There is often a primitive and negroid character about dwellings
of formidable personages, heads placed on stakes adorn their exterior, or shields are ranged
round the walls.

The provinces are ruled by removable earls appointed by the king, often his own kinsmen, sometimes
the heads of old ruling families. The "hundreds" make up the province or subkingdom. They may
be granted to king's thanes, who became "hundred-elders". Twelve hundreds are in one case bestowed
upon a man.

The "yeoman's" estate is not only honourable but useful, as Starcad generously and truly acknowledges.
Agriculture should be fostered and protected by the king, even at the cost of his life.

But gentle birth and birth royal place certain families above the common body of freemen (landed
or not); and for a commoner to pretend to a king's daughter is an act of presumption, and generally
rigorously resented.

The "smith" was the object of a curious prejudice, probably akin to that expressed in St. Patrick's
"Lorica", and derived from the smith's having inherited the functions of the savage weapon-maker
with his poisons and charms. The curious attempt to distinguish smiths into good and useful
swordsmiths and base and bad goldsmiths seems a merely modern explanation: Weland could both
forge swords and make ornaments of metal. Starcad's loathing for a smith recalls the mockery
with which the Homeric gods treat Hephaistos.

Slavery.--As noble birth is manifest by fine eyes and personal beauty, courage and endurance,
and delicate behaviour, so the slave nature is manifested by cowardice, treachery, unbridled
lust, bad manners, falsehood, and low physical traits. Slaves had, of course, no right either
of honour, or life, or limb. Captive ladies are sent to a brothel; captive kings cruelly put
to death. Born slaves were naturally still less considered, they were flogged; it was disgraceful
to kill them with honourable steel; to accept a slight service from a slave-woman was beneath
old Starcad's dignity. A man who loved another man's slave-woman, and did base service to her
master to obtain her as his consort, was looked down on. Slaves frequently ran away to escape
punishment for carelessness, or fault, or to gain liberty.

CUSTOMARY LAW.

The evidence of Saxo to archaic law and customary institutions is pretty much (as we should
expect) that to be drawn from the Icelandic Sagas, and even from the later Icelandic rimur
and Scandinavian kaempe-viser. But it helps to complete the picture of the older stage of North
Teutonic Law, which we are able to piece together out of our various sources, English, Icelandic,
and Scandinavian. In the twilight of Yore every glowworm is a helper to the searcher.

There are a few MAXIMS of various times, but all seemingly drawn from custom cited or implied
by Saxo as authoritative:--

"It is disgraceful to be ruled by a woman."--The great men of Teutonic nations held to this
maxim. There is no Boudicea or Maidhbh in our own annals till after the accession of the Tudors,
when Great Eliza rivals her elder kins-women's glories. Though Tacitus expressly notices one
tribe or confederacy, the Sitones, within the compass of his Germania, ruled by a woman, as
an exceptional case, it was contrary to the feeling of mediaeval Christendom for a woman to
be emperor; it was not till late in the Middle Ages that Spain saw a queen regnant, and France
has never yet allowed such rule. It was not till long after Saxo that the great queen of the
North, Margaret, wielded a wider sway than that rejected by Gustavus' wayward daughter.

"The suitor ought to urge his own suit."--This, an axiom of the most archaic law, gets evaded
bit by bit till the professional advocate takes the place of the plaintiff. "Njal's Saga",
in its legal scenes, shows the transition period, when, as at Rome, a great and skilled chief
was sought by his client as the supporter of his cause at the Moot. In England, the idea of
representation at law is, as is well known, late and largely derived from canon law practice.

"To exact the blood-fine was as honourable as to take vengeance."--This maxim, begotten by
Interest upon Legality, established itself both in Scandinavia and Arabia. It marks the first
stage in a progress which, if carried out wholly, substitutes law for feud. In the society
of the heathen Danes the maxim was a novelty; even in Christian Denmark men sometimes preferred
blood to fees.

MARRIAGE.--There are many reminiscences of "archaic marriage customs in Saxo." The capture
marriage has left traces in the guarded king's daughters, the challenging of kings to fight
or hand over their daughters, in the promises to give a daughter or sister as a reward to a
hero who shall accomplish some feat. The existence of polygamy is attested, and it went on
till the days of Charles the Great and Harold Fairhair in singular instances, in the case of
great kings, and finally disappeared before the strict ecclesiastic regulations.

But there are evidences also of later customs, such as "marriage by purchase", already looked
on as archaic in Saxo's day; and the free women in Denmark had clearly long had a veto or refusal
of a husband for some time back, and sometimes even free choice. "Go-betweens" negotiate marriages.

Betrothal was of course the usage. For the groom to defile an espoused woman is a foul reproach.
Gifts made to father-in-law after bridal by bridegroom seem to denote the old bride-price.
Taking the bride home in her car was an important ceremony, and a bride is taken to her future
husband's by her father. The wedding-feast, as in France in Rabelais' time, was a noisy and
drunken and tumultuous rejoicing, when bone-throwing was in favor, with other rough sports
and jokes. The three days after the bridal and their observance in "sword-bed" are noticed below.

A commoner or one of slave-blood could not pretend to wed a high-born lady. A woman would sometimes
require some proof of power or courage at her suitor's hands; thus Gywritha, like the famous
lady who weds Harold Fairhair, required her husband Siwar to be over-king of the whole land.
But in most instances the father or brother betrothed the girl, and she consented to their
choice. Unwelcome suitors perish.

The prohibited degrees were, of course, different from those established by the mediaeval church,
and brother weds brother's widow in good archaic fashion. Foster-sister and foster-brother
may marry, as Saxo notices carefully. The Wolsung incest is not noticed by Saxo. He only knew,
apparently, the North-German form of the Niflung story. But the reproachfulness of incest is
apparent.

Birth and beauty were looked for in a bride by Saxo's heroes, and chastity was required. The
modesty of maidens in old days is eulogised by Saxo, and the penalty for its infraction was
severe: sale abroad into slavery to grind the quern in the mud of the yard. One of the tests
of virtue is noticed, "lac in ubere".

That favourite "motif", the "Patient Grizzle", occurs, rather, however, in the Border ballad
than the Petrarcan form.

"Good wives" die with their husbands as they have vowed, or of grief for their loss, and are
wholly devoted to their interests. Among "bad wives" are those that wed their husband's slayer,
run away from their husbands, plot against their husbands' lives. The penalty for adultery
is death to both, at husband's option--disfigurement by cutting off the nose of the guilty
woman, an archaic practice widely spread. In one case the adulterous lady is left the choice
of her own death. Married women's Homeric duties are shown.

There is a curious story, which may rest upon fact, and not be merely typical, where a mother
who had suffered wrong forced her daughter to suffer the same wrong.

Captive women are reduced to degrading slavery as "harlots" in one case, according to the eleventh
century English practice of Gytha.

THE FAMILY AND BLOOD REVENGE.--This duty, one of the strongest links of the family in archaic
Teutonic society, has left deep traces in Saxo.

To slay those most close in blood, even by accident, is to incur the guilt of parricide, or
kin-killing, a bootless crime, which can only be purged by religious ceremonies; and which
involves exile, lest the gods' wrath fall on the land, and brings the curse of childlessness
on the offender until he is forgiven.

BOOTLESS CRIMES.--As among the ancient Teutons, botes and were-gilds satisfy the injured who
seek redress at law rather than by the steel. But there are certain bootless crimes, or rather
sins, that imply "sacratio", devotion to the gods, for the clearing of the community. Such
are treason, which is punishable by hanging; by drowning in sea.

Rebellion is still more harshly treated by death and forfeiture; the rebels' heels are bored
and thonged under the sinew, as Hector's feet were, and they are then fastened by the thongs
to wild bulls, hunted by hounds, till they are dashed to pieces (for which there are classic
parallels), or their feet are fastened with thongs to horses driven apart, so that they are
torn asunder.

For "parricide", i.e., killing within near degrees, the criminal is hung up, apparently by
the heels, with a live wolf (he having acted as a wolf which will slay its fellows). Cunning
avoidance of the guilt by trick is shown.

For "arson" the appropriate punishment is the fire.

For "incestuous adultery" of stepson with his stepmother, hanging is awarded to the man. In
the same case Swanwhite, the woman, is punished, by treading to death with horses. A woman
accomplice in adultery is treated to what Homer calls a "stone coat." Incestuous adultery is
a foul slur.

For "witchcraft", the horror of heathens, hanging was the penalty.

"Private revenge" sometimes deliberately inflicts a cruel death for atrocious wrong or insult,
as when a king, enraged at the slaying of his son and seduction of his daughter, has the offender
hanged, an instance famous in Nathan's story, so that Hagbard's hanging and hempen necklace
were proverbial.

For the slayer by a cruel death of their captive father, Ragnar's sons act the blood-eagle
on Ella, and salt his flesh. There is an undoubted instance of this act of vengeance (the symbolic
meaning of which is not clear as yet) in the "Orkney Saga".

But the story of Daxo and of Ref's gild show that for such wrongs were-gilds were sometimes
exacted, and that they were considered highly honourable to the exactor.

Among OFFENCES NOT BOOTLESS, and left to individual pursuit, are:--

"Highway robbery".--There are several stories of a type such as that of Ingemund and Ioknl
(see "Landnamaboc") told by Saxo of highwaymen; and an incident of the kind that occurs in
the Theseus story (the Bent-tree, which sprung back and slew the wretch bound to it) is given.
The romantic trick of the mechanic bed, by which a steel-shod beam is let fall on the sleeping
traveller, also occurs. Slain highwaymen are gibbeted as in Christian days.

"Assassination", as distinct from manslaughter in vengeance for a wrong, is not very common.
A hidden mail-coat foils a treacherous javelin-cast (cf. the Story of Olaf the Stout and the
Blind King, Hrorec); murderers lurk spear-armed at the threshold, sides, as in the Icelandic
Sagas; a queen hides a spear-head in her gown, and murders her husband (cf. Olaf Tryggvason's
Life). Godfred was murdered by his servant (and Ynglingatal).

"Burglary".--The crafty discovery of the robber of the treasury by Hadding is a variant of
the world-old Rhampsinitos tale, but less elaborate, possibly abridged and cut down by Saxo,
and reduced to a mere moral example in favour of the goldenness of silence and the danger of
letting the tongue feed the gallows.

Among other disgraceful acts, that make the offender infamous, but do not necessarily involve
public action:--

"Manslaughter in Breach of Hospitality".--Probably any gross breach of hospitality was disreputable
and highly abhorred, but "guest-slaughter" is especially mentioned. The ethical question as
to whether a man should slay his guest or forego his just vengeance was often a "probleme du
jour" in the archaic times to which these traditions witness. Ingeld prefers his vengeance,
but Thuriswend, in the Lay cited by Paul the Deacon, chooses to protect his guest. Heremod
slew his messmates in his wrath, and went forth alone into exile. ("Beowulf's Lay".)

"Suicide".--This was more honourable than what Earl Siward of Northumberland called a "cow-death."
Hadding resolves to commit suicide at his friend's death. Wermund resolves to commit suicide
if his son be slain (in hopelessness of being able to avenge him, cf. "Njal's Saga", where
the hero, a Christian, prefers to perish in his burning house than live dishonoured, "for I
am an old man and little fitted to avenge my sons, but I will not live in shame"). Persons
commit suicide by slaying each other in time of famine; while in England (so Baeda tells) they
"decliffed" themselves in companies, and, as in the comic little Icelandic tale Gautrec's birth,
a Tarpeian death is noted as the customary method of relieving folks from the hateful starvation
death. It is probable that the violent death relieved the ghost or the survivors of some inconveniences
which a "straw death" would have brought about.

"Procedure by Wager of Battle".--This archaic process pervades Saxo's whole narrative. It is
the main incident of many of the sagas from which he drew. It is one of the chief characteristics
of early Teutonic custom-law, and along with "Cormac's Saga", "Landnamaboc", and the Walter
Saga, our author has furnished us with most of the information we have upon its principles
and practice.

Steps in the process are the Challenge, the Acceptance and Settlement of Conditions, the Engagement,
the Treatment of the vanquished, the Reward of the conqueror, and there are rules touching
each of these, enough almost to furnish a kind of "Galway code".

A challenge could not, either to war or wager of battle, be refused with honor, though a superior
was not bound to fight an inferior in rank. An ally might accept for his principal, or a father
for a son, but it was not honourable for a man unless helpless to send a champion instead of
himself.

Men were bound to fight one to one, and one man might decline to fight two at once. Great champions
sometimes fought against odds.

The challenged man chose the place of battle, and possibly fixed the time. This was usually
an island in the river.

The regular weapons were swords and shields for men of gentle blood. They fought by alternate
separate strokes; the senior had the first blow. The fight must go on face to face without
change of place; for the ground was marked out for the combatants, as in our prize ring, though
one can hardly help fancying that the fighting ground so carefully described in "Cormac's Saga",
ch. 10, may have been Saxo's authority. The combatants change places accidentally in the struggle
in one story.

The combat might last, like Cuchullin's with Ferdia, several days; a nine days' fight occurs;
but usually a few blows settled the matter. Endurance was important, and we are told of a hero
keeping himself in constant training by walking in a mail coat.

The conqueror ought not to slay his man if he were a stripling, or maimed, and had better take
his were-gild for his life, the holmslausn or ransom of "Cormac's Saga" (three marks in Iceland);
but this was a mere concession to natural pity, and he might without loss of honor finish his
man, and cut off his head, though it was proper, if the slain adversary has been a man of honor,
to bury him afterward.

The stakes are sometimes a kingdom or a kingdom's tribute, often a lady, or the combatants
fought for "love" or the point of honor. Giants and noted champions challenge kings for their
daughters (as in the fictitious parts of the Icelandic family sagas) in true archaic fashion,
and in true archaic fashion the prince rescues the lady from a disgusting and evil fate by
his prowess.

The champion's fee or reward when he was fighting for his principal and came off successful
was heavy--many lands and sixty slaves. Bracelets are given him; a wound is compensated for
at ten gold pieces; a fee for killing a king is 120 of the same.

Of the incidents of the combat, beside fair sleight of fence, there is the continual occurrence
of the sword-blunting spell, often cast by the eye of the sinister champion, and foiled by
the good hero, sometimes by covering his blade with thin skin, sometimes by changing the blade,
sometimes by using a mace or club.

The strength of this tradition sufficiently explains the necessity of the great oath against
magic taken by both parties in a wager of battle in Christian England.

The chief combats mentioned by Saxo are:--

Sciold v. Attila. Sciold v. Scate, for the hand of Alfhild. Gram v. Swarin and eight more,
for the crown of the Swedes. Hadding v. Toste, by challenge. Frode v. Hunding, on challenge.
Frode v. Hacon, on challenge. Helge v. Hunding, by challenge at Stad. Agnar v. Bearce, by challenge.
Wizard v. Danish champions, for truage of the Slavs. Wizard v. Ubbe, for truage of the Slavs.
Coll v. Horwendill, on challenge. Athisl v. Frowine, meeting in battle. Athisl v. Ket and Wig,
on challenge. Uffe v. Prince of Saxony and Champion, by challenge. Frode v. Froger, on challenge.
Eric v. Grep's brethren, on challenge, twelve a side. Eric v. Alrec, by challenge. Hedin v.
Hogni, the mythic everlasting battle. Arngrim v. Scalc, by challenge. Arngrim v. Egtheow, for
truage of Permland. Arrow-Odd and Hialmar v. twelve sons of Arngrim Samsey fight. Ane Bow-swayer
v. Beorn, by challenge. Starkad v. Wisin, by challenge. Starkad v. Tanlie, by challenge. Starkad
v. Wasce--Wilzce, by challenge. Starkad v. Hame, by challenge. Starkad v. Angantheow and eight
of his brethren, on challenge. Halfdan v. Hardbone and six champions, on challenge. Halfdan
v. Egtheow, by challenge. Halfdan v. Grim, on challenge. Halfdan v. Ebbe, on challenge, by
moonlight. Halfdan v. Twelve champions, on challenge. Halfdan v. Hildeger, on challenge. Ole
v. Skate and Hiale, on challenge. Homod and Thole v. Beorn and Thore, by challenge. Ref. v.
Gaut, on challenge. Ragnar and three sons v. Starcad of Sweden and seven sons, on challenge.

CIVIL PROCEDURE.--"Oaths" are an important art of early procedure, and noticed by Saxo; one
calling the gods to witness and therefor, it is understood, to avenge perjury if he spake not
truth.

"Testification", or calling witnesses to prove the steps of a legal action, was known, "Glum's
Saga" and "Landnamaboc", and when a manslayer proceeded (in order to clear himself of murder)
to announce the manslaughter as his act, he brings the dead man's head as his proof, exactly
as the hero in the folk-tales brings the dragon's head or tongue as his voucher.

A "will" is spoken of. This seems to be the solemn declaration of a childless man to his kinsfolk,
recommending some person as his successor. Nothing more was possible before written wills were
introduced by the Christian clergy after the Roman fashion.

STATUTE LAWS.

"Lawgivers".--The realm of Custom had already long been curtailed by the conquests of Law when
Saxo wrote, and some epochs of the invasion were well remembered, such as Canute's laws. But
the beginnings were dim, and there were simply traditions of good and bad lawyers of the past;
such were "Sciold" first of all the arch-king, "Frode" the model lawgiver, "Helge" the tyrant,
"Ragnar" the shrewd conqueror.

"Sciold", the patriarch, is made by tradition to fulfil, by abolishing evil customs and making
good laws, the ideal of the Saxon and Frankish Coronation oath formula (which may well go back
with its two first clauses to heathen days). His fame is as widely spread. However, the only
law Saxo gives to him has a story to it that he does not plainly tell. Sciold had a freedman
who repaid his master's manumission of him by the ingratitude of attempting his life. Sciold
thereupon decrees the unlawfulness of manumissions, or (as Saxo puts it), revoked all manumissions,
thus ordaining perpetual slavery on all that were or might become slaves. The heathen lack
of pity noticed in Alfred's preface to "Gregory's Handbook" is illustrated here by contrast
with the philosophic humanity of the Civil Law, and the sympathy of the mediaeval Church.

But FRODE (known also to the compiler of "Beowulf's Lay", 2025) had, in the Dane's eyes, almost
eclipsed Sciold as conqueror and lawgiver. His name Frode almost looks as if his epithet Sapiens
had become his popular appellation, and it befits him well. Of him were told many stories,
and notably the one related of our Edwin by Bede (and as it has been told by many men of many
rulers since Bede wrote, and before). Frode was able to hang up an arm-ring of gold in three
parts of his kingdom that no thief for many years dared touch. How this incident (according
to our version preserved by Saxo), brought the just king to his end is an archaic and interesting
story. Was this ring the Brosinga men?

Saxo has even recorded the Laws of Frode in four separate bits, which we give as A, B, C, D.

A. is mainly a civil and military code of archaic kind:

(a) The division of spoil shall be--gold to captains, silver to privates, arms to champions,
ships to be shared by all. Cf. Jomswickinga S. on the division of spoil by the law of the pirate
community of Jom.

(b) No house stuff to be locked; if a man used a lock he must pay a gold mark.

(c) He who spares a thief must bear his punishment.

(d) The coward in battle is to forfeit all rights (cf. "Beowulf", 2885).

(e) Women to have free choice (or, at least, veto) in taking husbands.

(f) A free woman that weds a slave loses rank and freedom (cf. Roman Law).

(g) A man must marry a girl he has seduced.

(h) An adulterer to be mutilated at pleasure of injured husband.

(i) Where Dane robbed Dane, the thief to pay double and peace-breach.

(k) Receivers of stolen goods suffer forfeiture and flogging at most.

(l) Deserter bearing shield against his countrymen to lose life and property.

(m) Contempt of fyrd-summons or call to military service involves outlawry and exile.

(n) Bravery in battle to bring about increase in rank (cf. the old English "Ranks of Men").

(o) No suit to lie on promise and pledge; fine of a gold lb. for asking pledge.

(p) Wager of battle is to be the universal mode of proof.

(q) If an alien kill a Dane two aliens must suffer. (This is practically the same principle
as appears in the half weregild of the Welsh in West Saxon Law.)

B. An illustration of the more capricious of the old enactments and the jealousy of antique kings.

(a) Loss of gifts sent to the king involves the official responsible; he shall be hanged. (This
is introduced as illustration of the cleverness of Eric and the folly of Coll.)

C. Saxo associates another set of enactments with the completion of a successful campaign of
conquest over the Ruthenians, and shows Frode chiefly as a wise and civilising statesman, making
conquest mean progress.

(a) Every free householder that fell in war was to be set in his barrow with horse and arms
(cf. "Vatzdaela Saga", ch. 2).

The body-snatcher was to be punished by death and the lack of sepulture.

Earl or king to be burned in his own ship.

Ten sailors may be burnt on one ship.

(b) Ruthenians to have the same law of war as Danes.

(c) Ruthenians must adopt Danish sale-marriage. (This involves the abolition of the Baltic
custom of capture-marriage. That capture-marriage was a bar to social progress appears in the
legislation of Richard II, directed against the custom as carried out on the borders of the
Palatine county of Chester, while cases such as the famous one of Rob Roy's sons speak to its
late continuance in Scotland. In Ireland it survived in a stray instance or two into this century,
and songs like "William Riley" attest the sympathy of the peasant with the eloping couple.)

(d) A veteran, one of the Doughty, must be such a man as will attack one foe, will stand two,
face three without withdrawing more than a little, and be content to retire only before four.
(One of the traditional folk-sayings respecting the picked men, the Doughty or Old Guard, as
distinguished from the Youth or Young Guard, the new-comers in the king's Company of House-carles.
In Harald Hardrede's Life the Norwegians dread those English house-carles, "each of whom is
a match for four," who formed the famous guard that won Stamford Bridge and fell about their
lord, a sadly shrunken band, at Senlake.)

(f) The house-carles to have winter-pay. The house-carle three pieces of silver, a hired soldier
two pieces, a soldier who had finished his service one piece.

(The treatment of the house-carles gave Harald Harefoot a reputation long remembered for generosity,
and several old Northern kings have won their nicknames by their good or ill feeding and rewarding
their comitatus.)

D. Again a civil code, dealing chiefly with the rights of travellers.

(a) Seafarers may use what gear they find (the "remis" of the text may include boat or tackle).

(b) No house is to be locked, nor coffer, but all thefts to be compensated threefold. (This,
like A, b, which it resembles, seems a popular tradition intended to show the absolute security
of Frode's reign of seven or three hundred years. It is probably a gloss wrongly repeated.)

(c) A traveller may claim a single supper; if he take more he is a thief (the mark of a prae-tabernal
era when hospitality was waxing cold through misuse).

(d) Thief and accomplices are to be punished alike, being hung up by a line through the sinews
and a wolf fastened beside. (This, which contradicts A, i, k, and allots to theft the punishment
proper for parricide, seems a mere distorted tradition.)

But beside just Frode, tradition spoke of the unjust Kinge HELGE, whose laws represent ill-judged
harshness. They were made for conquered races, (a) the Saxons and (b) the Swedes.

(a) Noble and freedmen to have the same were-gild (the lower, of course, the intent being to
degrade all the conquered to one level, and to allow only the lowest were-gild of a freedman,
fifty pieces, probably, in the tradition).

(b) No remedy for wrong done to a Swede by a Dane to be legally recoverable. (This is the traditional
interpretation of the conqueror's haughty dealing; we may compare it with the Middle-English
legends of the pride of the Dane towards the conquered English. The Tradition sums up the position
in such concrete forms as this Law of Helge's.)

Two statutes of RAGNAR are mentioned:--

(a) That any householder should give up to his service in war the worst of his children, or
the laziest of his slaves (a curious tradition, and used by Saxo as an opportunity for patriotic
exaltation).

(b) That all suits shall be absolutely referred to the judgment of twelve chosen elders (Lodbroc
here appearing in the strange character of originator of trial by jury).

"Tributes".--Akin to laws are the tributes decreed and imposed by kings and conquerors of old.
Tribute infers subjection in archaic law. The poll-tax in the fourteenth century in England
was unpopular, because of its seeming to degrade Englishmen to the level of Frenchmen, who
paid tribute like vanquished men to their absolute lord, as well as for other reasons connected
with the collection of the tax.

The old fur tax (mentioned in "Egil's Saga") is here ascribed to FRODE, who makes the Finns
pay him, every three years, a car full or sledge full of skins for every ten heads; and extorts
one skin per head from the Perms. It is Frode, too (though Saxo has carved a number of Frodes
out of one or two kings of gigantic personality), that made the Saxons pay a poll-tax, a piece
of money per head, using, like William the Conqueror, his extraordinary revenue to reward his
soldiers, whom he first regaled with double pay. But on the conquered folks rebelling, he marked
their reduction by a tax of a piece of money on every limb a cubit long, a "limb-geld" still
more hateful than the "neb-geld."

HOTHERUS (Hodr) had set a tribute on the Kurlanders and Swedes, and HROLF laid a tribute on
the conquered Swedes.

GODEFRIDUS-GOTRIC is credited with a third Saxon tribute, a heriot of 100 snow-white horses
payable to each Danish king at his succession, and by each Saxon chief on his accession: a
statement that, recalling sacred snow-white horses kept in North Germany of yore makes one
wish for fuller information. But Godefridus also exacted from the Swedes the "Ref-gild", or
Fox-money; for the slaying of his henchman Ref, twelve pieces of gold from each man of rank,
one from every commoner. And his Friesland tribute is stranger still, nor is it easy to understand
from Saxo's account. There was a long hall built, 240 feet, and divided up into twelve "chases"
of 20 feet each (probably square). There was a shield set up at one end, and the taxpayers
hurled their money at it; if it struck so as to sound, it was good; if not, it was forfeit,
but not reckoned in the receipt. This (a popular version, it may be, of some early system of
treasury test) was abolished, so the story goes, by Charles the Great.

RAGNAR'S exaction from Daxo, his son's slayer, was a yearly tribute brought by himself and
twelve of his elders barefoot, resembling in part such submissions as occur in the Angevin
family history, the case of the Calais burgesses, and of such criminals as the Corporation
of Oxford, whose penance was only finally renounced by the local patriots in our own day.

WAR.

"Weapons".--The sword is the weapon par excellence in Saxo's narrative, and he names several
by name, famous old blades like our royal Curtana, which some believed was once Tristrem's,
and that sword of Carlus, whose fortunes are recorded in Irish annals. Such are "Snyrtir",
Bearce's sword; "Hothing", Agnar's blade; "Lauf", or "Leaf", Bearce's sword; "Screp", Wermund's
sword, long buried and much rust-eaten, but sharp and trusty, and known by its whistle; Miming's
sword ("Mistletoe"), which slew Balder. Wainhead's curved blade seems to be a halbert; "Lyusing"
and "Hwiting", Ragnald of Norway's swords; "Logthe", the sword of Ole Siward's son.

The "war-club" occurs pretty frequently. But it is usually introduced as a special weapon of
a special hero, who fashions a gold-headed club to slay one that steel cannot touch, or who
tears up a tree, like the Spanish knight in the ballad, or who uses a club to counteract spells
that blunt steel. The bat-shapen archaic rudder of a ship is used as a club in the story of
the Sons of Arngrim.

The "spear" plays no particular part in Saxo: even Woden's spear Gungne is not prominent.

"Bows and arrows" are not often spoken of, but archer heroes, such as Toki, Ane Bow-swayer,
and Orwar-Odd, are known. Slings and stones are used.

The shield, of all defensive armour, is far the most prominent. They were often painted with
devices, such as Hamlet's shield, Hildiger's Swedish shield. Dr. Vigfusson has shown the importance
of these painted shields in the poetic history of the Scandinavians.

A red shield is a signal of peace. Shields are set round ramparts on land as round ships at sea.

"Mail-coats" are worn. Frode has one charmed against steel. Hother has another; a mail-coat
of proof is mentioned and their iron meshes are spoken of.

"Helmets" are used, but not so carefully described as in "Beowulf's Lay"; crested helmets and
a gilded helmet occur in Bearca-mal and in another poem.

"Banners" serve as rallying points in the battle and on the march. The Huns' banners are spoken
of in the classic passage for the description of a huge host invading a country. Bearcamal
talks of golden banners.

"Horns" (1) were blown pp at the beginning of the engagement and for signalling. The gathering
of the host was made by delivery of a wooden arrow painted to look like iron.

"Tactics".--The hand-to-hand fight of the wager of battle with sword and shield, and the fighting
in ranks and the wedge-column at close quarters, show that the close infantry combat was the
main event of the battle. The preliminary hurling of stones, and shooting of arrows, and slinging
of pebbles, were harassing and annoying, but seldom sufficiently important to affect the result
of the main engagement.

Men ride to battle, but fight on foot; occasionally an aged king is car-borne to the fray,
and once the car, whether by Saxo's adorning hand, or by tradition, is scythe-armed.

The gathered host is numbered, once, where, as with Xerxes, counting was too difficult, by
making each man as he passed put a pebble in a pile (which piles survive to mark the huge size
of Frode's army). This is, of course, a folktale, explaining the pebble-hills and illustrating
the belief in Frode's power; but armies were mustered by such expedients of old. Burton tells
of an African army each man of whom presented an egg, as a token of his presence and a means
of taking the number of the host.

We hear of men marching in light order without even scabbards, and getting over the ice in socks.

The war equipment and habits of the Irish, light armoured, clipped at back of head, hurling
the javelin backwards in their feigned flight; of the Slavs, small blue targets and long swords;
of the Finns, with their darts and skees, are given.

Watches are kept, and it is noted that "uht", the early watch after midnight, is the worst
to be attacked in (the duke's two-o'clock-in-the-morning courage being needed, and the darkness
and cold helping the enemy).

Spies were, of course, slain if discovered. But we have instances of kings and heroes getting
into foeman's camps in disguise (cf. stories of Alfred and Anlaf).

The order of battle of Bravalla fight is given, and the ideal array of a host. To Woden is
ascribed the device of the boar's head, hamalt fylking (the swine-head array of Manu's Indian
kings), the terrible column with wedge head which could cleave the stoutest line.

The host of Ring has men from Wener, Wermland, Gotaelf, Thotn, Wick, Thelemark, Throndham,
Sogn, Firths, Fialer, Iceland; Sweden, Gislamark, Sigtun, Upsala, Pannonia.

The host of Harold had men from Iceland, the Danish provinces, Frisia, Lifland; Slavs, and
men from Jom, Aland, and Sleswick.

The battle of Bravalla is said to have been won by the Gotland archers and the men of Throndham,
and the Dales. The death of Harald by treachery completed the defeat, which began when Ubbe
fell (after he had broken the enemy's van) riddled with arrows.

The defeated, unless they could fly, got little quarter. One-fifth only of the population of
a province are said to have survived an invasion. After sea-battles (always necessarily more
deadly) the corpses choke the harbours. Seventy sea-kings are swept away in one sea-fight.
Heads seem to have been taken in some cases, but not as a regular Teutonic usage, and the practice,
from its being attributed to ghosts and aliens, must have already been considered savage by
Saxo, and probably by his informants and authorities.

Prisoners were slaves; they might be killed, put to cruel death, outraged, used as slaves,
but the feeling in favour of mercy was growing, and the cruelty of Eormenric, who used tortures
to his prisoners, of Rothe, who stripped his captives, and of Fro, who sent captive ladies
to a brothel in insult, is regarded with dislike.

Wounds were looked on as honourable, but they must be in front or honourably got. A man who
was shot through the buttocks, or wounded in the back, was laughed at and disgraced. We hear
of a mother helping her wounded son out of battle.

That much of human interest centered round war is evident by the mass of tradition that surrounds
the subject in Saxo, both in its public and private aspects. Quaint is the analysis of the
four kinds of warriors: (a) The Veterans, or Doughty, who kill foes and spare flyers; (b) the
Young men who kill foes and flyers too; (c) the well-to-do, landed, and propertied men of the
main levy, who neither fight for fear nor fly for shame; (d) the worthless, last to fight and
first to fly; and curious are the remarks about married and unmarried troops, a matter which
Chaka pondered over in later days. Homeric speeches precede the fight.

"Stratagems of War" greatly interested Saxo (probably because Valerius Maximus, one of his
most esteemed models, was much occupied with such matters), so that he diligently records the
military traditions of the notably skillful expedients of famous commanders of old.

There is the device for taking a town by means of the "pretended death" of the besieging general,
a device ascribed to Hastings and many more commanders (see Steenstrup Normannerne); the plan
of "firing" a besieged town by fire-bearing birds, ascribed here to Fridlev, in the case of
Dublin to Hadding against Duna (where it was foiled by all tame birds being chased out of the
place).

There is the "Birnam Wood" stratagem, by which men advanced behind a screen of boughs, which
is even used for the concealment of ships, and the curious legend (occurring in Irish tradition
also, and recalling Capt. B. Hall's "quaker gun" story) by which a commander bluffs off his
enemy by binding his dead to stakes in rows, as if they were living men.

Less easy to understand are the "brazen horses" or "machines" driven into the close lines of
the enemy to crush and open them, an invention of Gewar. The use of hooked weapons to pull
down the foes' shields and helmets was also taught to Hother by Gewar.

The use of black tents to conceal encampment; the defence of a pass by hurling rocks from the
heights; the bridge of boats across the Elbe; and the employment of spies, and the bold venture,
ascribed in our chronicles to Alfred and Anlaf, of visiting in disguise the enemy's camp, is
here attributed to Frode, who even assumed women's clothes for the purpose.

Frode is throughout the typical general, as he is the typical statesman and law-giver of archaic
Denmark.

There are certain heathen usages connected with war, as the hurling of a javelin or shooting
of an arrow over the enemy's ranks as a "sacratio" to Woden of the foe at the beginning of
a battle. This is recorded in the older vernacular authorities also, in exact accordance with
the Homeric usage, "Odyssey" xxiv, 516-595.

The dedication of part of the spoils to the god who gave good omens for the war is told of
the heathen Baltic peoples; but though, as Sidonius records, it had once prevailed among the
Saxons, and, as other witnesses add, among the Scandinavian people, the tradition is not clearly
preserved by Saxo.

"Sea and Sea Warfare."--As might be expected, there is much mention of Wicking adventure and
of maritime warfare in Saxo.

Saxo tells of Asmund's huge ship (Gnod), built high that he might shoot down on the enemy's
craft; he speaks of a ship (such as Godwin gave as a gift to the king his master), and the
monk of St. Bertin and the court-poets have lovingly described a ship with gold-broidered sails,
gilt masts, and red-dyed rigging. One of his ships has, like the ships in the Chansons de Geste,
a carbuncle for a lantern at the masthead. Hedin signals to Frode by a shield at the masthead.
A red shield was a peace signal, as noted above. The practice of "strand-hewing", a great feature
in Wicking-life (which, so far as the victualling of raw meat by the fishing fleets, and its
use raw, as Mr. P. H. Emerson informs me, still survives), is spoken of. There was great fear
of monsters attacking them, a fear probably justified by such occasional attacks of angry whales
as Melville (founding his narrative on repeated facts) has immortalised. The whales, like Moby
Dick, were uncanny, and inspired by troll-women or witches (cf. "Frithiof Saga" and the older
"Lay of Atle and Rimegerd"). The clever sailing of Hadding, by which he eludes pursuit, is
tantalising, for one gathers that, Saxo knows the details that he for some reason omits. Big
fleets of 150 and a monster armada of 3,000 vessels are recorded.

The ships were moved by oars and sails; they had rudders, no doubt such as the Gokstad ship,
for the hero Arrow-Odd used a rudder as a weapon.

"Champions".--Professed fighting men were often kept by kings and earls about their court as
useful in feud and fray. Harald Fairhair's champions are admirably described in the contemporary
Raven Song by Hornclofe--

     "Wolf-coats they call them that in battle
     Bellow into bloody shields.
     They wear wolves' hides when they come into the fight,
     And clash their weapons together."

and Saxo's sources adhere closely to this pattern.

These "bear-sarks", or wolf-coats of Harald give rise to an O. N. term, "bear-sarks' way",
to describe the frenzy of fight and fury which such champions indulged in, barking and howling,
and biting their shield-rims (like the ferocious "rook" in the narwhale ivory chessmen in the
British Museum) till a kind of state was produced akin to that of the Malay when he has worked
himself up to "run-a-muck." There seems to have been in the 10th century a number of such fellows
about unemployed, who became nuisances to their neighbours by reason of their bullying and
highhandedness. Stories are told in the Icelandic sagas of the way such persons were entrapped
and put to death by the chiefs they served when they became too troublesome. A favourite (and
fictitious) episode in an "edited" Icelandic saga is for the hero to rescue a lady promised
to such a champion (who has bullied her father into consent) by slaying the ruffian. It is
the same "motif" as Guy of Warwick and the Saracen lady, and one of the regular Giant and Knight
stories.

Beside men-warriors there were "women-warriors" in the North, as Saxo explains. He describes
shield-maidens, as Alfhild, Sela, Rusila (the Ingean Ruadh, or Red Maid of the Irish Annals,
as Steenstrup so ingeniously conjectures); and the three she-captains, Wigbiorg, who fell on
the field, Hetha, who was made queen of Zealand, and Wisna, whose hand Starcad cut off, all
three fighting manfully at Bravalla fight.

SOCIAL LIFE AND MANNERS.

"Feasts".--The hall-dinner was an important feature in the old Teutonic court-life. Many a
fine scene in a saga takes place in the hall while the king and his men are sitting over their
ale. The hall decked with hangings, with its fires, lights, plate and provisions, appears in
Saxo just as in the Eddic Lays, especially Rigsmal, and the Lives of the Norwegian Kings and
Orkney Earls.

The order of seats is a great point of archaic manners. Behaviour at table was a matter of
careful observance. The service, especially that of the cup-bearer, was minutely regulated
by etiquette. An honoured guest was welcomed by the host rising to receive him and giving him
a seat near himself, but less distinguished visitors were often victims to the rough horseplay
of the baser sort, and of the wanton young gentleman at court. The food was simple, boiled
beef and pork, and mutton without sauce, ale served in horns from the butt. Roast meat, game,
sauces, mead, and flagons set on the table, are looked on by Starcad as foreign luxuries, and
Germany was credited with luxurious cookery.

"Mimes and jugglers", who went through the country or were attached to the lord's court to
amuse the company, were a despised race because of their ribaldry, obscenity, cowardice, and
unabashed self-debasement; and their newfangled dances and piping were loathsome to the old
court-poets, who accepted the harp alone as an instrument of music.

The story that once a king went to war with his jugglers and they ran away, would represent
the point of view of the old house-carle, who was neglected, though "a first-class fighting
man", for these debauched foreign buffoons.

SUPERNATURAL BEINGS.

GODS AND GODDESSES.--The gods spring, according to Saxo's belief, from a race of sorcerers,
some of whom rose to pre-eminence and expelled and crushed the rest, ending the "wizard-age",
as the wizards had ended the monster or "giant-age". That they were identic with the classic
gods he is inclined to believe, but his difficulty is that in the week-days we have Jove :
Thor; Mercury : Woden; whereas it is perfectly well known that Mercury is Jove's son, and also
that Woden is the father of Thor--a comic "embarras". That the persians the heathens worshipped
as gods existed, and that they were men and women false and powerful, Saxo plainly believes.
He has not Snorre's appreciation of the humorous side of the mythology. He is ironic and scornful,
but without the kindly, naive fun of the Icelander.

The most active god, the Dane's chief god (as Frey is the Swede's god, and patriarch), is "Woden".
He appears in heroic life as patron of great heroes and kings. Cf. "Hyndla-Lay", where it is
said of Woden:--

     "Let us pray the Father of Hosts to be gracious to us!
     He granteth and giveth gold to his servants,
     He gave Heremod a helm and mail-coat,
     And Sigmund a sword to take.
     He giveth victory to his sons, to his followers wealth,
     Ready speech to his children and wisdom to men.
     Fair wind to captains, and song to poets;
     He giveth luck in love to many a hero."

He appears under various disguises and names, but usually as a one-eyed old man, cowled and
hooded; sometimes with another, bald and ragged, as before the battle Hadding won; once as
"Hroptr", a huge man skilled in leechcraft, to Ragnar's son Sigfrid.

Often he is a helper in battle or doomer of feymen. As "Lysir", a rover of the sea, he helps
Hadding. As veteran slinger and archer he helps his favourite Hadding; as charioteer, "Brune",
he drives Harald to his death in battle. He teaches Hadding how to array his troops. As "Yggr"
the prophet he advises the hero and the gods. As "Wecha" (Waer) the leech he woos Wrinda. He
invented the wedge array. He can grant charmed lives to his favourites against steel. He prophesies
their victories and death. He snatches up one of his disciples, sets him on his magic horse
that rides over seas in the air, as in Skida-runa the god takes the beggar over the North Sea.
His image (like that of Frey in the Swedish story of Ogmund dytt and Gunnar helming, "Flatey
book", i, 335) could speak by magic power.

Of his life and career Saxo gives several episodes.

Woden himself dwelt at Upsala and Byzantium (Asgard); and the northern kings sent him a golden
image ring-bedecked, which he made to speak oracles. His wife Frigga stole the bracelets and
played him false with a servant, who advised her to destroy and rob the image.

When Woden was away (hiding the disgrace brought on him by Frigga his wife), an imposter, Mid
Odin, possibly Loke in disguise, usurped his place at Upsala, instituted special drink-offerings,
fled to Finland on Woden's return, and was slain by the Fins and laid in barrow. But the barrow
smote all that approached it with death, till the body was unearthed, beheaded, and impaled,
a well-known process for stopping the haunting of an obnoxious or dangerous ghost.

Woden had a son Balder, rival of Hother for the love of Nanna, daughter of King Gewar. Woden
and Thor his son fought for him against Hother, but in vain, for Hother won the laity and put
Balder to shameful flight; however, Balder, half-frenzied by his dreams of Nanna, in turn drove
him into exile (winning the lady); finally Hother, befriended hy luck and the Wood Maidens,
to whom he owed his early successes and his magic coat, belt, and girdle (there is obvious
confusion here in the text), at last met Balder and stabbed him in the side. Of this wound
Balder died in three days, as was foretold by the awful dream in which Proserpina (Hela) appeared
to him. Balder's grand burial, his barrow, and the magic flood which burst from it when one
Harald tried to break into it, and terrified the robbers, are described.

The death of Balder led Woden to seek revenge. Hrossthiof the wizard, whom he consulted, told
him he must beget a son by "Wrinda" (Rinda, daughter of the King of the Ruthenians), who should
avenge his half-brother.

Woden's wooing is the best part of this story, half spoilt, however, by euhemeristic tone and
lack of epic dignity. He woos as a victorious warrior, and receives a cuff; as a generous goldsmith,
and gets a buffet; as a handsome soldier, earning a heavy knock-down blow; but in the garb
of a women as Wecha (Wakr), skilled in leechcraft, he won his way by trickery; and ("Wale")
"Bous" was born, who, after some years, slew Hother in battle, and died himself of his wounds.
Bous' barrow in Bohusland, Balder's haven, Balder's well, are named as local attestations of
the legend, which is in a late form, as it seems.

The story of Woden's being banished for misbehaviour, and especially for sorcery and for having
worn woman's attire to trick Wrinda, his replacement by "Wuldor" ("Oller"), a high priest who
assumed Woden's name and flourished for ten years, but was ultimately expelled by the returning
Woden, and killed by the Danes in Sweden, is in the same style. But Wuldor's bone vessel is
an old bit of genuine tradition mangled. It would cross the sea as well as a ship could, by
virtue of certain spells marked on it.

Of "Frey", who appears as "satrapa" of the gods at Upsala, and as the originator of human sacrifice,
and as appeased by black victims, at a sacrifice called Froblod (Freys-blot) instituted by
Hadding, who began it as an atonement for having slain a sea-monster, a deed for which he had
incurred a curse. The priapic and generative influences of Frey are only indicated by a curious
tradition mentioned. It almost looks as if there had once been such an institution at Upsala
as adorned the Phoenician temples, under Frey's patronage and for a symbolic means of worship.

"Thunder", or "Thor", is Woden's son, strongest of gods or men, patron of Starcad, whom he
turned, by pulling off four arms, from a monster to a man.

He fights by Woden's side and Balder's against Hother, by whose magic wand his club (hammer)
was lopped off part of its shaft, a wholly different and, a much later version than the one
Snorre gives in the prose Edda. Saxo knows of Thor's journey to the haunt of giant Garfred
(Geirrod) and his three daughters, and of the hurling of the iron "bloom", and of the crushing
of the giantesses, though he does not seem to have known of the river-feats of either the ladies
or Thor, if we may judge (never a safe thing wholly) by his silence.

Whether "Tew" is meant by the Mars of the Song of the Voice is not evident. Saxo may only be
imitating the repeated catch-word "war" of the original.

"Loke" appears as Utgard-Loke, Loke of the skirts of the World, as it were; is treated as a
venomous giant bound in agony under a serpent-haunted cavern (no mention is made of "Sigyn"
or her pious ministry).

"Hela" seems to be meant by Saxo's Proserpina.

"Nanna" is the daughter of Gewar, and Balder sees her bathing and falls in love with her, as
madly as Frey with Gertha in Skirnismal.

"Freya", the mistress of Od, the patroness of Othere the homely, the sister of Frey-Frode,
and daughter of Niord-Fridlaf, appears as Gunwara Eric's love and Syritha Ottar's love and
the hair-clogged maiden, as Dr. Rydberg has shown.

The gods can disguise their form, change their shape, are often met in a mist, which shrouds
them save from the right person; they appear and disappear at will. For the rest they have
the mental and physical characteristics of the kings and queens they protect or persecute so
capriciously. They can be seen by making a magic sign and looking through a witch's arm held
akimbo. They are no good comates for men or women, and to meddle with a goddess or nymph or
giantess was to ensure evil or death for a man. The god's loves were apparently not always
so fatal, though there seems to be some tradition to that effect. Most of the god-sprung heroes
are motherless or unborn (i.e., born like Macduff by the Caesarean operation)--Sigfred, in
the Eddic Lays for instance.

Besides the gods, possibly older than they are, and presumably mightier, are the "Fates" (Norns),
three Ladies who are met with together, who fulfil the parts of the gift-fairies of our Sleeping
Beauty tales, and bestow endowments on the new-born child, as in the beautiful "Helge Lay",
a point of the story which survives in Ogier of the Chansons de Geste, wherein Eadgar (Otkerus
or Otgerus) gets what belonged to Holger (Holge), the Helga of "Beowulf's Lay". The caprices
of the Fates, where one corrects or spoils the others' endowments, are seen in Saxo, when beauty,
bounty, and meanness are given together. They sometimes meet heroes, as they met Helgi in the
Eddic Lay (Helgi and Sigrun Lay), and help or begift them; they prepare the magic broth for
Balder, are charmed with Hother's lute-playing, and bestow on him a belt of victory and a girdle
of splendour, and prophesy things to come.

The verse in Biarca-mal, where "Pluto weaves the dooms of the mighty and fills Phlegethon with
noble shapes," recalls Darrada-liod, and points to Woden as death-doomer of the warrior.

"Giants".--These are stupid, mischievous, evil and cunning in Saxo's eyes. Oldest of beings,
with chaotic force and exuberance, monstrous in extravagant vitality.

The giant nature of the older troll-kind is abhorrent to man and woman. But a giantess is enamoured
of a youth she had fostered, and giants carry off king's daughters, and a three-bodied giant
captures young children.

Giants live in caves by the sea, where they keep their treasure. One giant, Unfoot (Ofoti),
is a shepherd, like Polyphemus, and has a famous dog which passed into the charge of Biorn,
and won a battle; a giantess is keeping goats in the wilds. A giant's fury is so great that
it takes twelve champions to control him, when the rage is on him. The troll (like our Puss-in-Boots
Ogre) can take any shape.

Monstrous apparitions are mentioned, a giant hand (like that in one story of Finn) searching
for its prey among the inmates of a booth in the wilds. But this Grendel-like arm is torn off
by a giantess, Hardgrip, daughter of Wainhead and niece possibly of Hafle.

The voice heard at night prophesying is that of some god or monster, possibly Woden himself.

"Dwarves".--These Saxo calls Satyrs, and but rarely mentions. The dwarf Miming, who lives in
the desert, has a precious sword of sharpness (Mistletoe?) that could even pierce skin-hard
Balder, and a ring (Draupnir) that multiplied itself for its possessor. He is trapped by the
hero and robbed of his treasures.

FUNERAL RITES AND MAN'S FUTURE STATE.

"Barrow-burials".--The obsequies of great men (such as the classic funeral of "Beowulf's Lay",
3138-80) are much noticed by Saxo, and we might expect that he knew such a poem (one similar
to Ynglingatal, but not it) which, like the Books of the Kings of Israel and Judah, recorded
the deaths and burials, as well as the pedigrees and deeds, of the Danish kings.

The various stages of the "obsequy by fire" are noted; the byre sometimes formed out of a ship;
the "sati"; the devoted bower-maidens choosing to die with their mistress, the dead man's beloved
(cf. The Eddic funerals of Balder, Sigfred, and Brunhild, in the Long "Brunhild's Lay", Tregrof
Gudrumar and the lost poem of Balder's death paraphrased in the prose Edda); the last message
given to the corpse on the pyre (Woden's last words to Balder are famous); the riding round
the pyre; the eulogium; the piling of the barrow, which sometimes took whole days, as the size
of many existing grass mounds assure us; the funeral feast, where an immense vat of ale or
mead is drunk in honor of the dead; the epitaph, like an ogham, set up on a stone over the barrow.

The inclusion of a live man with the dead in a barrow, with the live or fresh-slain beasts
(horse and bound) of the dead man, seems to point to a time or district when burning was not
used. Apparently, at one time, judging from Frode's law, only chiefs and warriors were burnt.

Not to bury was, as in Hellas, an insult to the dead, reserved for the bodies of hated foes.
Conquerors sometimes show their magnanimity (like Harald Godwineson) by offering to bury their
dead foes.

The buried "barrow-ghost" was formidable; he could rise and slay and eat, vampire-like, as
in the tale of Asmund and Aswit. He must in such case be mastered and prevented doing further
harm by decapitation and thigh-forking, or by staking and burning. So criminals' bodies were
often burnt to stop possible haunting.

Witches and wizards could raise corpses by spells to make them prophesy. The dead also appeared
in visions, usually foretelling death to the person they visited.

OTHER WORLDS.--The "Land of Undeath" is spoken of as a place reached by an exiled hero in his
wanderings. We know it from Eric the traveller's S., Helge Thoreson's S., Herrand and Bose
S., Herwon S., Thorstan Baearmagn S., and other Icelandic sources. But the voyage to the Other
Worlds are some of the most remarkable of the narratives Saxo has preserved for us.

"Hadding's Voyage Underground".--(a) A woman bearing in her lap angelica fresh and green, though
it was deep winter, appears to the hero at supper, raising her head beside the brazier. Hadding
wishes to know where such plants grow.

(b) She takes him with her, under cover of her mantle, underground.

(c) They pierce a mist, get on a road worn by long use, pass nobly-clad men, and reach the
sunny fields that bear the angelica:--

     "Through griesly shadowes by a beaten path,
     Into a garden goodly garnished."
     --F.Q. ii. 7, 51.

(d) Next they cross, by a bridge, the "River of Blades", and see "two armies fighting", ghosts
of slain soldiers.

(e) Last they came to a high wall, which surrounds the land of Life, for a cock the woman brought
with her, whose neck she wrung and tossed over this wall, came to life and crowed merrily.

Here the story breaks off. It is unfinished, we are only told that Hadfling got back. Why he
was taken to this under-world? Who took him? What followed therefrom? Saxo does not tell. It
is left to us to make out.

That it is an archaic story of the kind in the Thomas of Ercildoune and so many more fairy-tales,
e.g., Kate Crack-a-Nuts, is certain. The "River of Blades" and "The Fighting Warriors" are
known from the Eddic Poems. The angelica is like the green birk of that superb fragment, the
ballad of the Wife of Usher's Well--a little more frankly heathen, of course--

     "It fell about the Martinmas, when nights are long and mirk,
     The carline wife's three sons cam hame, and their hats were
     o' the birk.
     It neither grew in syke nor dyke, nor yet in ony sheugh,
     But at the gates o' Paradise that birk grew fair eneuch."

The mantel is that of Woden when he bears the hero over seas; the cock is a bird of sorcery
the world over; the black fowl is the proper gift to the Underground powers--a heriot really,
for did not the Culture god steal all the useful beasts out of the underground world for men's use?

Dr. Rydberg has shown that the "Seven Sleepers" story is an old Northern myth, alluded to here
in its early pre-Christian form, and that with this is mixed other incidents from voyages of
Swipdag, the Teutonic Odusseus.

"Thorkill's Second Voyage to Outgarth-Loke to get Knowledge".--(a) Guthrum is troubled as to
the immortality and fate of the soul, and the reward of piety after death. To spite Thorkill,
his enviers advised the king to send him to consult Outgarth-Loke. He required of the king
that his enemies should be sent with him.

(b) In one well-stored and hide-defended ship they set out, reached a sunless, starless land,
without fuel; ate raw food and suffered. At last, after many days, a fire was seen ashore.
Thorkill, setting a jewel at the mast-head to be able to regain his vessel easily, rows ashore
to get fire.

(c) In a filthy, snake-paved, stinking cavern he sees two horny-nebbed giants, (2) making a
fire. One of the giants offers to direct him to Loke if he will say three true things in three
phrases, and this done, tells him to row four days and then he would reach a Dark and Grassless
Land. For three more true sayings he obtains fire, and gets back to his vessel.

(d) With good wind they make Grassless Land, go ashore, find a huge, rocky cavern, strike a
flint to kindle a fire at the entrance as a safeguard against demons, and a torch to light
them as they explored the cavern.

(e) First appears iron seats set amid crawling snakes.

(f) Next is sluggish water flowing over sand.

(g) Last a steep, sloping cavern is reached, in a chamber of which lay Outgarth-Loke chained,
huge and foul.

(h) Thorkill plucks a hair of his beard "as big as a cornel-wood spear." The stench that arose
was fearful; the demens and snakes fell upon the invaders at once; only Thorkill and five of
the crew, who had sheltered themselves with hides against the virulent poison the demons and
snakes cast, which would take a head off at the neck if it fell upon it, got back to their ship.

(i) By vow to the "God that made the world", and offerings, a good voyage was made back, and
Germany reached, where Thorkill became a Christian. Only two of his men survived the effects
of the poison and stench, and he himself was scarred and spoilt in the face.

(k) When he reached the king, Guthrum would not listen to his tale, because it was prophesied
to him that he would die suddenly if he heard it; nay, he even sent men to smite him as he
lay in bed, but, by the device of laying a log in his place, he escaped, and going to the king
as he sat at meat, reproached him for his treachery.

(l) Guthrum bade him tell his story, but died of horror at hearing his god Loke foully spoken
of, while the stench of the hair that Thorkill produced, as Othere did his horn for a voucher
of his speech, slew many bystanders.

This is the regular myth of Loke, punished by the gods, lying bound with his own soils' entrails
on three sharp stones and a sword-blade, (this latter an addition, when the myth was made stones
were the only blades), with snakes' venom dripping on to him, so that when it falls on him
he shakes with pain and makes earthquakes--a Titan myth in answer to the question, "Why does
the earth quake?" The vitriolic power of the poison is excellently expressed in the story.
The plucking of the hair as a token is like the plucking of a horn off the giant or devil that
occurs in some folk-tale.

MAGIC AND FOLK-SCIENCE.

There is a belief in magic throughout Saxo's work, showing how fresh heathendom still was in
men's minds and memories. His explanations, when he euhemerizes, are those of his day.

By means of spells all kinds of wonders could be effected, and the powers of nature forced
to work for the magician or his favourite.

"Skin-changing" (so common in "Landnamaboc") was as well known as in the classic world of Lucian
and Apuleius; and, where Frode perishes of the attacks of a witch metamorphosed into a walrus.

"Mist" is induced by spells to cover and hide persons, as in Homer, and "glamour" is produced
by spells to dazzle foemen's sight. To cast glamour and put confusion into a besieged place
a witch is employed by the beleaguerer, just as William the Conqueror used the witch in the
Fens against Hereward's fortalice. A soothsayer warns Charles the Great of the coming of a
Danish fleet to the Seine's mouth.

"Rain and bad weather" may be brought on, as in a battle against the enemy, but in this, as
in other instances, the spell may be counteracted.

"Panic Terror" may be induced by the spell worked with a dead horse's head set up on a pole
facing the antagonist, but the spell may be met and combatted by silence and a counter-curse.

"Magic help" may be got by calling on the friendly magician's name. The magician has also the
power of summoning to him anyone, however unwilling, to appear.

Of spells and magic power to blunt steel there are several instances; they may be counteracted
(as in the Icelandic Sagas) by using the hilt, or a club, or covering the blade with fine skin.
In another case the champion can only be overcome by one that will take up some of the dust
from under his feet. This is effected by the combatants shifting their ground and exchanging
places. In another case the foeman can only be slain by gold, whereupon the hero has a gold-headed
mace made and batters the life out of him therewith. The brothers of Swanhild cannot be cut
by steel, for their mail was charmed by the witch Gudrun, but Woden taught Eormenric, the Gothic
king, how to overcome them with stones (which apparently cannot, as archaic weapons, be charmed
against at all, resisting magic like wood and water and fire). Jordanis tells the true history
of Ermanaric, that great Gothic emperor whose rule from the Dnieper to the Baltic and Rhine
and Danube, and long reign of prosperity, were broken by the coming of the Huns. With him vanished
the first great Teutonic empire.

Magic was powerful enough even to raise the dead, as was practised by the Perms, who thus renewed
their forces after a battle. In the Everlasting battle the combatants were by some strange
trick of fate obliged to fulfil a perennial weird (like the unhappy Vanderdecken). Spells to
wake the dead were written on wood and put under the corpses' tongue. Spells (written on bark)
induce frenzy.

"Charms" would secure a man against claw or tooth.

"Love philtres" (as in the long "Lay of Gudrun) appear as everywhere in savage and archaic society.

"Food", porridge mixed with the slaver of tortured snakes, gives magic strength or endues the
eater with eloquence and knowledge of beast and bird speech (as Finn's broiled fish and Sigfred's
broiled dragon-heart do).

"Poison" like these hell-broths are part of the Witch or Obi stock-in-trade, and Frode uses
powdered gold as an antidote.

"Omens" are observed; tripping as one lands is lucky (as with our William the Norman). Portents,
such as a sudden reddening of the sea where the hero is drowned, are noticed and interpreted.

"Dreams" (cf. Eddic Lays of Attila, and the Border ballads) are prophetic (as nine-tenths of
Europeans firmly believe still); thus the visionary flame-spouting dragon is interpreted exactly
as Hogne's and Attila's dreams. The dreams of the three first bridals nights (which were kept
hallowed by a curious superstition, either because the dreams would then bold good, or as is
more likely, for fear of some Asmodeus) were fateful. Animals and birds in dreams are read
as persons, as nowadays.

A "curse" is powerful unless it can be turned back, when it will harm its utterer, for harm
someone it must. The "curse" of a dying man on his slayer, and its lack of effect, is noted.

Sometimes "magic messengers" are sent, like the swans that bore a token and uttered warning
songs to the hero.

"Witches and wizards" (as belonging to the older layer of archaic beliefs) are hateful to the
gods, and Woden casts them out as accursed, though he himself was the mightiest of wizards.
Heathen Teutonic life was a long terror by reason of witchcraft, as is the heathen African
life to-day, continual precautions being needful to escape the magic of enemies. The Icelandic
Sagas, such as Gretter's, are full of magic and witchcraft. It is by witchcraft that Gretter
is first lamed and finally slain; one can see that Glam's curse, the Beowulf motif, was not
really in the original Gretter story.

"Folk-medicine" is really a branch of magic in old days, even to such pioneers of science as
Paracelsus.

Saxo's traditions note drinking of a lion's blood that eats men as a means of gaining might
and strength; the drinking of bear's blood is also declared to give great bodily power.

The tests for "madness" are of a primitive character, such as those applied to Odusseus, who,
however, was not able, like Hamlet, to evade them.

The test for death is the red-hot iron or hot brand (used by the Abyssinians of to-day, as
it was supposed in the thirteenth century to have been used by Grimhild. "And now Grimhild
goes and takes a great brand, where the house had burnt, and goes to Gernot her brother, and
thrusts the burning brand in his mouth, and will know whether he is dead or living. But Gernot
was clearly dead. And now she goes to Gislher and thrusts the firebrand in his mouth. He was
not dead before, but Gislher died of that. Now King Thidrec of Bern saw what Grimhild is doing,
and speaks to King Attila. `See how that devil Grimhild, thy wife, is killing her brothers,
the good warriors, and how many men have lost their lives for her sake, and how many good men
she has destroyed, Huns and Amalungs and Niflungs; and in the same way would she bring thee
and me to hell, if she could do it?' Then spake King Attila, `Surely she is a devil, and slay
thou her, and that were a good work if thou had done it seven nights ago! Then many a gallant
fellow were whole that is now dead.' Now King Thidrec springs at Grimhild and swings up his
sword Eckisax, and hews her asunder at the middle").

It was believed (as in Polynesia, where "Captain Cook's path" was shown in the grass) that
the heat of the hero's body might blast the grass; so Starcad's entrails withered the grass.

It was believed that a severed head might bite the ground in rage, and there were certainly
plenty of opportunities for observation of such cases.

It was believed that a "dumb man" might be so wrought on by passion that he would speak, and
wholly acquire speech-power.

Little is told of "surgery", but in one case of intestines protruding owing to wounds, withies
were employed to bind round the trunk and keep the bowels from risk till the patient could
be taken to a house and his wounds examined and dressed. It was considered heroic to pay little
heed to wounds that were not dangerous, but just to leave them to nature.

Personal "cleanliness" was not higher than among savages now. A lover is loused by his lady
after the mediaeval fashion.

CHRISTIANITY--In the first nine books of Saxo, which are devoted to heathendom, there is not
much save the author's own Christian point of view that smacks of the New Faith. The apostleships
of Ansgarius in Denmark, the conversion of King Eric, the Christianity of several later Danish
Kings, one of whom was (like Olaf Tryggwason) baptised in Britain are also noticed.

Of "Christian legends" and beliefs, besides the euhemerist theory, widely held, of the heathen
gods there are few hints, save the idea that Christ was born in the reign of Frode, Frode having
been somehow synchronised with Augustus, in whose reign also there was a world-peace.

Of course the christening of Scandinavia is history, and the mythic books are little concerned
with it. The episode in Adam of Bremen, where the king offers the people, if they want a new
god, to deify Eric, one of their hero-kings, is eminently characteristic and true.

FOLK-TALES.

There might be a classification of Saxo's stories akin to that of the Irish poets, Battles,
Sieges, Voyages, Rapes, Cattle Forays, etc.; and quite apart from the historic element, however
faint and legendary, there are a set of stories ascribed by him, or rather his authorities,
to definite persons, which had, even in his day, probably long been the property of Tis, their
original owners not being known owing to lapse of time and the wear of memory, and the natural
and accidental catastrophies that impair the human record. Such are the "Dragon-Slayer" stories.
In one type of these the hero (Frithlaf) is cast on a desolate island, and warned by a dream
to attack and slay a dragon guarding treasure. He wakes, sees the dragon arise out of the waves,
apparently, to come ashore and go back to the cavern or mound wherein the treasure lay. His
scales are too hard to pierce; he is terribly strong, lashing trees down with his tail, and
wearing a deep path through the wood and over the stones with his huge and perpetual bulk;
but the hero, covered with hide-wrapped shield against the poison, gets down into the hollow
path, and pierces the monster from below, afterward rifling its underground store and carrying
off its treasure.

Again the story is repeated; the hero (Frode Haddingsson) is warned by a countryman of the
island-dragon and its hoard, is told to cover his shield and body with bulls' hides against
the poison, and smite the monster's belly. The dragon goes to drink, and, as it is coming back,
it is attacked, slain, and its treasure lifted precisely as before. The analogies with the
Beowulf and Sigfred stories are evident; but no great poet has arisen to weave the dragon-slaying
intimately into the lives of Frode and Frithlaf as they have been woven into the tragedy of
Sigfred the wooer of Brunhild and, if Dr. Vigffisson be right the conqueror of Varus, or into
the story of Beowulf, whose real engagements were with sea-monsters, not fiery dragons.

Another type is that of the "Loathly Worm". A king out hunting (Herod or Herraud, King of Sweden),
for some unexplained reason brings home two small snakes as presents for his daughter. They
wax wonderfully, have to be fed a whole ox a day, and proceed to poison and waste the countryside.
The wretched king is forced to offer his daughter (Thora) to anyone who will slay them. The
hero (Ragnar) devises a dress of a peculiar kind (by help of his nurse, apparently), in this
case, woolly mantle and hairy breeches all frozen and ice-covered to resist the venom, then
strapping his spear to his hand, he encounters them boldly alone. The courtiers hide "like
frightened little girls", and the king betakes him to a "narrow shelter", an euphemism evidently
of Saxo's, for the scene is comic. The king comes forth when the hero is victorious, and laughing
at his hairy legs, nick-names him Shaggy-breech, and bids him to the feast. Ragnar fetches
up his comrades, and apparently seeks out the frightened courtiers (no doubt with appropriate
quip, omitted by Saxo, who hurries on), feasts, marries the king's daughter, and begets on
her two fine sons.

Of somewhat similar type is the proud "Maiden guarded" by Beasts. Here the scene is laid in
Gaulardale in Norway. The lady is Ladgerda, the hero Ragnar. Enamoured of the maiden by seeing
her prowess in war, he accepts no rebuffs, but leaving his followers, enters the house, slays
the guardian Bear and Dog, thrusting one through with a spear and throttling the other with
his hand. The lady is won and wed, and two daughters and a son (Frithlaf) duly begotten. The
story of Alf and Alfhild combines several types. There are the tame snakes, the baffled suitors'
heads staked to terrify other suitors, and the hero using red-hot iron and spear to slay the
two reptiles.

The "Proud Lady", (cf. Kudrun and the Niebelungen, and Are's story of the queen that burnt
her suitors) appears in Hermintrude, Queen of Scotland, who battles and slays her lovers, but
is out-witted by the hero (Hamlet), and, abating her arrogance, agrees to wed him. This seems
an obvious accretion in the original Hamlet story, and probably owing not to Saxo, but to his
authority.

The "Beggar that stole the Lady" (told of Snio Siwaldson and the daughter of the King of the
Goths), with its brisk dialogue, must have been one of the most artful of the folk-tales worked
on by Saxo or his informants; but it is only half told, unfortunately.

The "Crafty Soaker" is another excellent comic folk-tale. A terrible famine made the king (Snio)
forbid brewing to save the barley for bread, and abolished all needless toping. The Soaker
baffled the king by sipping, never taking a full draught. Rebuked, he declared that he never
drank, but only sucked a drop. This was forbidden him for the future, so he sopped his bread
in ale, and in that inconvenient manner continued to get drunk, excusing himself with the plea
that though it was forbidden to drink or sip beer, it was not forbidden to eat it. When this
was in turn prohibited, the Soaker gave up any pretence, and brewed and drank unabashed, telling
the angry king that he was celebrating his approaching funeral with due respect, which excuse
led to the repeal of the obnoxious decree. A good Rabelaisian tale, that must not have been
wide-spread among the Danish topers, whose powers both Saxo and Shakespeare have celebrated,
from actual experience no doubt.

The "Magician's tricks to elude pursuit", so common an incident in our fairy tales, e.g., Michael
Scot's flight, is ascribed here to the wonder-working and uncanny Finns, who, when pursued,
cast behind them successively three pebbles, which become to their enemies' eyes mountains,
then snow, which appeared like a roaring torrent. But they could not cast the glamour on Arngrim
a third time, and were forced to submit. The glamour here and in the case of the breaking of
Balder's barrow is akin to that which the Druid puts on the sons of Uisnach.

The tale of the king who shuts up his daughter in an "earth-house" or underground chamber with
treasures (weapons and gold and silver), in fear of invasion, looks like a bit of folk-tale,
such as the "Hind in the Wood", but it may have a traditional base of some kind here.

A folk-tale, very imperfectly narrated, is the "Clever King's Daughter", who evidently in the
original story had to choose her suitor by his feet (as the giantess in the prose Edda chooses
her husband), and was able to do so by the device she had practised of sewing up her ring in
his leg sometime before, so that when she touched the flesh she could feel the hardness of
the ring beneath the scar.

Bits of folk-tales are the "Device for escaping threatened death by putting a log in one's
bed" (as in our Jack the Giant-Killer). The device, as old as David's wife, of dressing up
a dummy (here a basket with a dog inside, covered outside with clothes), while the hero escapes,
is told of Eormenric, the mighty Gothic King of Kings, who, like Walter of Aquitaine, Theodoric
of Varona, Ecgherht, and Arminius, was an exile in his youth. This traditional escape of the
two lads from the Scyths should be compared with the true story in Paul the Deacon of his little
ancestor's captivity and bold and successful stroke for freedom.

"Disguise" plays a great part in the folk-tales used by Saxo. Woden disguises himself in a
cowl on his earthly travels, and heroes do the same; a king disguises himself as a slave at
his rival's court, to try and find occasion of slaying him; a hero wraps himself up in skins,
like Alleleirah.

"Escaped recognition" is accordingly a feature in many of these simple but artistic plots.
A son is not known by his mother in the story of Hrolf.

Other "Devices" are exemplified, such as the "booby-trap" loaded with a millstone, which slays
a hateful and despised tyrant, imposed by a foreign conqueror; evasion by secret passages,
and concealment in underground vaults or earth-houses. The feigning of madness to escape death
occurs, as well as in the better-known Hamlet story. These stratagems are universal in folk-history.

To Eric, the clever and quick of speech, is ascribed an excellent sailor's smuggling trick
to hide slaughtered cattle, by sinking them till the search is over.

The "Hero's Mighty Childhood" (like David's) of course occurs when he binds a bear with his
girdle. Sciold is full grown at fifteen, and Hadding is full grown in extreme youth. The hero
in his boyhood slays a full-grown man and champion. The cinder-biting, lazy stage of a mighty
youth is exemplified.

The "fierce eyes" of the hero or heroine, which can daunt an assassin as could the piercing
glance of Marius, are the "falcon eyes" of the Eddic Lays.

The shining, effulgent, "illuminating hair" of the hero, which gives light in the darkness,
is noticed here, as it obtains in Cuaran's thirteenth century English legend.

The wide-spread tale of the "City founded on a site marked out by a hide cut into finest thongs",
occurs, told of Hella and Iwarus exactly as our Kentishmen told it of Hengist, and as it is
also told of Dido.

The incidents of the "hero sleeping by a rill", of the guarded king's daughter, with her thirty
attendants, the king's son keeping sheep, are part of the regular stock incidents in European
folk-tales. So are the Nausicaa incident of the "king's daughter going a washing", the hero
disguising himself as a woman and winding wool (like a second Heracles).

There are a certain number of stories, which only occur in Saxo and in our other Northern sources
with attributions, though they are of course legendary; such are:

The "Everlasting Battle" between Hedhin and Hogne, a legend connected with the great Brisinga-men
story, and paralleled by the Cordelia-tale among the Britons.

The story of the "Children preserved" is not very clearly told, and Saxo seems to have euhemerized.
It is evidently of the same type as the Lionel-Lancelot story in the Arthurian cycle. Two children,
ordered to be killed, are saved by the slaying of other children in their place; and afterwards
by their being kept and named as dogs; they come to their own and avenge their wrongs.

The "Journey to Hell" story is told of Eric, who goes to a far land to fetch a princess back,
and is successful. It is apparently an adventure of Swipdag, if everyone had their rights.
It is also told of Thorkill, whose adventures are rather of the "True Thomas" type.

The "Test of Endurance" by sitting between fires, and the relief of the tortured and patient
hero by a kindly trick, is a variant of the famous Eddic Lays concerning Agnar.

The "Robbers of the Island", evidently comes from an Icelandic source (cf. The historic "Holmveria
Saga" and Icelandic folk-tales of later date), the incident of the hero slaying his slave,
that the body might be mistaken for his, is archaic in tone; the powerful horse recalls Grani,
Bayard, and even Sleipner; the dog which had once belonged to Unfoot (Ofote), the giant shepherd
(cf. its analogues in old Welsh tales), is not quite assimilated or properly used in this story.
It seems (as Dr. Rydberg suspects) a mythical story coloured by the Icelandic relater with
memory full of the robber-hands of his own land.

The stratagem of "Starcad", who tried even in death to slay his slayer, seems an integral part
of the Starcad story; as much as the doom of three crimes which are to be the price for the
threefold life that a triple man or giant should enjoy. The noose story in Starcad (cf. that
told of Bicce in the Eormenric story), is also integral.

SAXO'S MYTHOLOGY.

No one has commented upon Saxo's mythology with such brilliancy, such minute consideration,
and such success as the Swedish scholar, Victor Rydberg. More than occasionally he is over-ingenious
and over-anxious to reduce chaos to order; sometimes he almost loses his faithful reader in
the maze he treads so easily and confidently, and sometimes he stumbles badly. But he has placed
the whole subject on a fresh footing, and much that is to follow will be drawn from his "Teutonic
Mythology" (cited here from the English version by Rasmus B. Anderson, London, 1889, as "T.M.").

Let us take first some of the incontestable results of his investigations that affect Saxo.

SCIOLD is the father of Gram in Saxo, and the son of Sceaf in other older authorities. Dr.
Rydberg (97-101) forms the following equations for the Sciolding patriarchs:--

     a. Scef--Heimdal--Rig.
     b. Sciold--Borgar--Jarl.
     c. Gram--Halfdan--Koming.

Chief among the mythic tales that concern Saxo are the various portions of the Swipdag-Myth,
which Dr. Rydberg has been able to complete with much success. They may be resumed briefly
as follows:--

Swipdag, helped by the incantations of his dead mother, whom he had raised from the dead to
teach him spells of protection, sets forth on his quests. He is the Odusseus of the Teutonic
mythology. He desires to avenge his father on Halfdan that slew him. To this end he must have
a weapon of might against Halfdan's club. The Moon-god tells him of the blade Thiasse has forged.
It has been stolen by Mimer, who has gone out into the cold wilderness on the rim of the world.
Swipdag achieves the sword, and defeats and slays Halfdan. He now buys a wife, Menglad, of
her kinsmen the gods by the gift of the sword, which thus passes into Frey's hands.

How he established a claim upon Frey, and who Menglad was, is explained in Saxo's story of
Eric, where the characters may be identified thus:--

     Swipdag--Eric
     Freya--Gunwara
     Frey--Frode III
     Niord--Fridlaf
     Wuldor--Roller
     Thor--Brac
     Giants--The Greps
     Giants--Coller.

Frey and Freya had been carried off by the giants, and Swipdag and his faithful friend resolve
to get them back for the Anses, who bewail their absence. They journey to Monster-land, win
back the lady, who ultimately is to become the hero's wife, and return her to her kindred;
but her brother can only be rescued by his father Niord. It is by wit rather than by force
that Swipdag is successful here.

The third journey of Swipdag is undertaken on Frey's behalf; he goes under the name of Scirner
to woo giant Gymer's daughter Gerth for his brother-in-law, buying her with the sword that
he himself had paid to Frey as his sister's bride-price. So the sword gets back to the giants
again.

Swipdag's dead foe Halfdan left two young "avengers", Hadding and Guthorm, whom he seeks to
slay. But Thor-Brache gives them in charge of two giant brothers. Wainhead took care of Hadding,
Hafle of Guthorm. Swipdag made peace with Guthorm, in a way not fully explained to us, but
Hadding took up the blood-feud as soon as he was old enough.

Hadding was befriended by a woman, who took him to the Underworld--the story is only half told
in Saxo, unluckily--and by Woden, who took him over-sea wrapt in his mantle as they rode Sleipner
over the waves; but here again Saxo either had not the whole story before him, or he wished
to abridge it for some reason or prejudice, and the only result of this astonishing pilgrimage
is that Woden gives the young hero some useful counsels. He falls into captivity, entrapped
by Loke (for what reason again we are left to guess), and is exposed to wild beasts, but he
slays the wolf that attacks him, and eating its heart as Woden had bidden him, he gains wisdom
and foresight.

Prepared by these adventures, he gets Guthorm to join him (how or why the peace between him
and Swipdag was broken, we know not), and they attack their father's slayer, but are defeated,
though Woden sunk Asmund Swipdag's son's ship, Grio, at Hlessey, and Wainhead and Hardgrip
his daughter fought for Hadding.

Hadding wanders off to the East with his foster-sister and mistress and Hardgrip, who is slain
protecting him against an angry ghost raised from the Underworld by her spells. However, helped
by Heimdal and Woden (who at this time was an exile), Hadding's ultimate success is assured.

When Woden came back to power, Swipdag, whose violence and pride grew horribly upon him, was
exiled, possibly by some device of his foes, and took upon him, whether by will or doom, a
sea-monster's shape. His faithful wife follows him over land and sea, but is not able to save
him. He is met by Hadding and, after a fierce fight, slain. Swipdag's wife cursed the conqueror,
and he was obliged to institute an annual sacrifice to Frey (her brother) at Upsale, who annuls
the curse. Loke, in seal's guise, tried to steal the necklace of Freya at the Reef of Treasures,
where Swipdag was slain, but Haimdal, also in sealskin, fought him, and recovered it for the gods.

Other myths having reference to the goddesses appear in Saxo. There is the story of "Heimdall
and Sol", which Dr. Rydberg has recognised in the tale of Alf and Alfhild. The same tale of
how the god won the sun for his wife appears in the mediaeval German King Ruther (in which
title Dr. Ryuberg sees Hrutr, a name of the ram-headed god).

The story of "Othar" (Od) and "Syritha" (Sigrid) is obviously that of Freya and her lover.
She has been stolen by the giants, owing to the wiles of her waiting-maid, Loke's helper, the
evil witch Angrbode. Od seeks her, finds her, slays the evil giant who keeps her in the cave;
but she is still bewitched, her hair knotted into a hard, horny mass, her eyes void of brightness.
Unable to gain recognition he lets her go, and she is made by a giantess to herd her flocks.
Again found by Od, and again refusing to recognise him, she is let go again. But this time
she flies to the world of men, and takes service with Od's mother and father. Here, after a
trial of her love, she and Od are reconciled. Sywald (Sigwald), her father, weds Od's sister.

The tale of the vengeance of Balder is more clearly given by the Dane, and with a comic force
that recalls the Aristophanic fun of Loka-senna. It appears that the story had a sequel which
only Saxo gives. Woden had the giantess Angrbode, who stole Freya, punished. Frey, whose mother-in-law
she was, took up her quarrel, and accusing Woden of sorcery and dressing up like a woman to
betray Wrind, got him banished. While in exile Wuldor takes Woden's place and name, and Woden
lives on earth, part of the time at least, with Scathe Thiasse's daughter, who had parted from
Niord.

The giants now resolved to attack Ansegard; and Woden, under the name of Yggr, warned the gods,
who recall him after ten years' exile.

But for Saxo this part of the story of the wars of the gods would be very fragmentary.

The "Hildiger story", where a father slays his son unwittingly, and then falls at his brother's
hand, a tale combining the Rustam and the Balin-Balan types, is one of the Hilding tragedies,
and curiously preserved in the late "Saga of Asmund the Champions' bane". It is an antithesis,
as Dr. Rydberg remarks, to the Hildebrand and Hadubrand story, where father and son must fight
and are reconciled.

The "story of Orwandel" (the analogue of Orion the Hunter) must be gathered chiefly from the
prose Edda. He was a huntsman, big enough and brave enough to cope with giants. He was the
friend of Thor, the husband of Groa, the father of Swipdag, the enemy of giant Coller and the
monster Sela. The story of his birth, and of his being blinded, are lost apparently in the
Teutonic stories, unless we may suppose that the bleeding of Robin Hood till he could not see
by the traitorous prioress is the last remains of the story of the great archer's death.

Great part of the troubles which befell the gods arose from the antagonism of the sons of Iwalde
and the brethren Sindre and Brokk (Cinder and Brank), rival artist families; and it was owing
to the retirement of their artist foster-parents that Frey and Freya were left among the giants.
The Hniflung hoard is also supposed to have consisted of the treasures of one band of primaeval
artists, the Iwaldings.

Whether we have here the phenomenon of mythological doublets belonging to different tribes,
or whether we have already among these early names that descent of story which has led to an
adventure of Moses being attributed to Garibaldi, given to Theodoric the king the adventures
of Theodoric the god, taken Arthur to Rome, and Charles the Great to Constantinople, it is
hard to say.

The skeleton-key of identification, used even as ably as Dr. Rydberg uses it, will not pick
every mythologic lock, though it undoubtedly has opened many hitherto closed. The truth is
that man is a finite animal; that he has a limited number of types of legend; that these legends,
as long as they live and exist, are excessively prehensile; that, like the opossum, they can
swing from tree to tree without falling; as one tree dies out of memory they pass on to another.
When they are scared away by what is called exact intelligence from the tall forest of great
personalities, they contrive to live humbly clinging to such bare plain stocks and poles (Tis
and Jack and Cinderella) as enable them to find a precarious perch.

To drop similitudes, we must be prepared, in unravelling our tangled mythology, to go through
several processes. We must, of course, note the parallelisms and get back to the earliest attribution-names
we can find. But all system is of late creation, it does not begin till a certain political
stage, a stage where the myths of coalescing clans come into contact, and an official settlement
is attempted by some school of poets or priests. Moreover, systematization is never so complete
that it effaces all the earlier state of things. Behind the official systems of Homer and Hesiod
lies the actual chaos of local faiths preserved for us by Pausanias and other mythographers.
The common factors in the various local faiths are much the majority among the factors they
each possess; and many of these common factors are exceedingly primitive, and resolve themselves
into answers to the questions that children still ask, still receiving no answer but myth--that
is, poetic and subjective hypothesis, containing as much truth as they can receive or their
inventors can grasp.

Who were our forbears? How did day and night, sun and moon, earth and water, and fire come?
How did the animals come? Why has the bear no tail? Why are fishes dumb, the swallow cleft-tail?
How did evil come? Why did men begin to quarrel? How did death arise? What will the end be?
Why do dead persons come back? What do the dead do? What is the earth shaped like? Who invented
tools and weapons, and musical instruments, and how? When did kings and chiefs first come?

From accepted answers to such questions most of the huge mass of mythology arises. Man makes
his gods in his own image, and the doctrines of omen, coincidence, and correspondence helped
by incessant and imperfect observation and logic, bring about a system of religious observance,
of magic and ritual, and all the masses of folly and cruelty, hope and faith, and even charity,
that group about their inventions, and seem to be the necessary steps in the onward path of
progressive races.

When to these we add the true and exaggerated memories of actual heroes, the material before
the student is pretty completely comprised. Though he must be prepared to meet the difficulties
caused in the contact of races, of civilisations, by the conversion of persons holding one
set of mythical ideas to belief in another set of different, more attractive, and often more
advanced stage.

The task of arriving at the scientific, speculative ethic, and the actual practice of our remote
ancestry (for to that end is the student of mythology and folk-lore aiming) is not therefore
easy. Nor is the record perfect, though it is not so poor in most cases as was once believed.
The Brothers Grimm, patriarchs alike as mythologists and folk-lorists, the Castor and Pollox
of our studies, have proved this as regards the Teutonic nations, just as they showed us, by
many a striking example, that in great part folk-lore was the mythology of to-day, and mythology
the folk-lore of yesterday.

In many cases we are helped by quite modern material to make out some puzzle that an old tale
presents, and there is little doubt but that the present activity in the field of folklore
will not only result in fresh matter but in fresh methods freshly applied.

The Scandinavian material, at all events, is particularly rich: there is the extensive Icelandic
written literature touching the ninth and tenth and eleventh centuries; the noble, if fragmentary
remains of Old Northern poetry of the Wickingtide; and lastly, the mass of tradition which,
surviving in oral form, and changing in colour from generation to generation, was first recorded
in part in the seventeenth, and again in part, in the present century; and all these yield
a plentiful field for research. But their evidence gains immensely by the existence of Saxo's
nine books of traditional and mythic lore, collected and written down in an age when much that
was antique and heathen was passing away forever. The gratitude due to the Welshman of the
twelfth century, whose garnered hoard has enriched so many poets and romances from his day
to now, is no less due to the twelfth-century Dane, whose faithful and eloquent enthusiasm
has swept much dust from antique time, and saved us such a story as Shakespeare has not disdained
to consecrate to highest use. Not only Celtic and Teutonic lore are the richer for these two
men, but the whole Western world of thought and speech. In the history of modern literature,
it is but right that by the side of Geoffrey an honourable place should be maintained for Saxo, and

"awake remembrance of these mighty dead."

--Oliver Elton

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  A horn and a tusk of great size are described as things of
     price, and great uroch's horns are mentioned in Thorkill's
     Second Journey.  Horns were used for feast as well as fray.
     (2)  Such bird-beaked, bird-legged figures occur on the Cross at
     Papil, Burra Island, Shetland.  Cf. Abbey Morne Cross, and
     an Onchan Cross, Isle of Man.

THE DANISH HISTORY OF SAXO GRAMMATICUS.

PREFACE.

Forasmuch as all other nations are wont to vaunt the glory of their achievements, and reap
joy from the remembrance of their forefathers: Absalon, Chief Pontiff of the Danes, whose zeal
ever burned high for the glorification of our land, and who would not suffer it to be defrauded
of like renown and record, cast upon me, the least of his followers--since all the rest refused
the task--the work of compiling into a chronicle the history of Denmark, and by the authority
of his constant admonition spurred my weak faculty to enter on a labour too heavy for its strength.
For who could write a record of the deeds of Denmark? It had but lately been admitted to the
common faith: it still languished as strange to Latin as to religion. But now that the holy
ritual brought also the command of the Latin tongue, men were as slothful now as they were
unskilled before, and their sluggishness proved as faultful as that former neediness. Thus
it came about that my lowliness, though perceiving itself too feeble for the aforesaid burden,
yet chose rather to strain beyond its strength than to resist his bidding; fearing that while
our neighbours rejoiced and transmitted records of their deeds, the repute of our own people
might appear not to possess any written chronicle, but rather to be sunk in oblivion and antiquity.
Thus I, forced to put my shoulder, which was unused to the task, to a burden unfamiliar to
all authors of preceding time, and dreading to slight his command, have obeyed more boldly
than effectually, borrowing from the greatness of my admonisher that good heart which the weakness
of my own wit denied me.

And since, ere my enterprise reached its goal, his death outran it; I entreat thee chiefly,
Andrew, who wast chosen by a most wholesome and accordant vote to be successor in the same
office and to headship of spiritual things, to direct and inspire my theme; that I may baulk
by the defence of so great an advocate that spiteful detraction which ever reviles what is
most conspicuous. For thy breast, very fruitful in knowledge, and covered with great store
of worshipful doctrines, is to be deemed a kind of shrine of heavenly treasures. Thou who hast
searched through Gaul and Italy and Britain also in order to gather knowledge of letters and
amass them abundantly, didst after thy long wandering obtain a most illustrious post in a foreign
school, and proved such a pillar thereof, that thou seemedst to confer more grace on thy degree
than it did on thee. Then being made, on account of the height of thy honours and the desert
of thy virtues, Secretary to the King, thou didst adorn that employment, in itself bounded
and insignificant, with such works of wisdom as to leave it a piece of promotion for men of
greatest rank to covet afterwards, when thou wert transferred to that office which now thou
holdest. Wherefore Skaane has been found to leap for joy that she has borrowed a Pontiff from
her neighbours rather than chosen one from her own people; inasmuch as she both elected nobly
and deserved joy of her election. Being a shining light, therefore, in lineage, in letters,
and in parts, and guiding the people with the most fruitful labours of thy teaching, thou hast
won the deepest love of thy flock, and by thy boldness in thy famous administration hast conducted
the service thou hast undertaken unto the summit of renown. And lest thou shouldst seem to
acquire ownership on the strength of prescription, thou hast, by a pious and bountiful will,
made over a very rich inheritance to Holy Church; choosing rather honourably to reject riches
(which are covered with the rust of cares) than to be shackled with the greed of them and with
their burden. Likewise thou hast set about an amazing work upon the reverend tenets of the
faith; and in thy zeal to set the service of public religion before thy private concerns, hast,
by the lesson of thy wholesome admonitions, driven those men who refused payment of the dues
belonging to religion to do to holy things the homage that they ought; and by thy pious gift
of treasure hast atoned for the ancient neglect of sacred buildings. Further, those who pursued
a wanton life, and yielded to the stress of incontinence above measure, thou hast redeemed
from nerveless sloth to a more upright state of mind, partly by continuing instant in wholesome
reproof, and partly by the noble example of simple living; leaving it in doubt whether thou
hast edified them more by word or deed. Thus thou, by mere counsels of wisdom, hast achieved
what it was not granted to any of thy forerunners to obtain.

And I would not have it forgotten that the more ancient of the Danes, when any notable deeds
of mettle had been done, were filled with emulation of glory, and imitated the Roman style;
not only by relating in a choice kind of composition, which might be called a poetical work,
the roll of their lordly deeds; but also by having graven upon rocks and cliffs, in the characters
of their own language, the works of their forefathers, which were commonly known in poems in
the mother tongue. In the footsteps of these poems, being as it were classic books of antiquity,
I have trod; and keeping true step with them as I translated, in the endeavour to preserve
their drift, I have taken care to render verses by verses; so that the chronicle of what I
shall have to write, being founded upon these, may thus be known, not for a modern fabrication,
but for the utterance of antiquity; since this present work promises not a trumpery dazzle
of language, but faithful information concerning times past.

Moreover, how many histories must we suppose that men of such genius would have written, could
they have had skill in Latin and so slaked their thirst for writing! Men who though they lacked
acquaintance with, the speech of Rome, were yet seized with such a passion for bequeathing
some record of their history, that they encompassed huge boulders instead of scrolls, borrowing
rocks for the usage of books.

Nor may the pains of the men of Thule be blotted in oblivion; for though they lack all that
can foster luxury (so naturally barren is the soil), yet they make up for their neediness by
their wit, by keeping continually every observance of soberness, and devoting every instant
of their lives to perfecting our knowledge of the deeds of foreigners. Indeed, they account
it a delight to learn and to consign to remembrance the history of all nations, deeming it
as great a glory to set forth the excellences of others as to display their own. Their stores,
which are stocked with attestations of historical events, I have examined somewhat closely,
and have woven together no small portion of the present work by following their narrative,
not despising the judgment of men whom I know to be so well versed in the knowledge of antiquity.

Wherefore, Waldemar, (1) healthful Prince and Father of us all, shining light of thy land,
whose lineage, most glorious from times of old, I am to relate, I beseech thee let thy grace
attend the faltering course of this work; for I am fettered under the weight of my purpose,
and dread that I may rather expose my unskillfulness and the feebleness of my parts, than portray
thy descent as I duly should. For, not to speak of thy rich inheritance from thy fathers, thou
hast nobly increased thy realm by conquering thy neighbours, and in the toil of spreading thy
sovereignty hast encompassed the ebbing and flowing waves of Elbe, thus adding to thy crowded
roll of honours no mean portion of fame. And after outstripping the renown and repute of thy
forerunners by the greatness of thy deeds, thou didst not forbear to make armed, assault even
upon part of the Roman empire. And though thou art deemed to be well endowed with courage and
generosity, thou hast left it in doubt whether thou dost more terrify to thy foes in warfare
or melt thy people by thy mildness. Also thy most illustrious grandsire, who was sanctioned
with the honours of public worship, and earned the glory of immortality by an unmerited death,
now dazzles by the refulgence of his holiness those whom living he annexed in his conquests.
And from his most holy wounds more virtue than blood hath flowed.

Moreover I, bound by an old and inherited duty of obedience, have set my heart on fighting
for thee, if it be only with all the forces of my mind; my father and grandfather being known
to have served thy illustrious sire in camp with loyal endurance of the toils of war. Relying
therefore on thy guidance and regard, I have resolved to begin with the position and configuration
of our own country; for I shall relate all things as they come more vividly, if the course
of this history first traverse the places to which the events belong, and take their situation
as the starting-point for its narrative.

The extremes, then, of this country are partly bounded by a frontier of another land, and partly
enclosed by the waters of the adjacent sea. The interior is washed and encompassed by the ocean;
and this, through the circuitous winds of the interstices, now straitens into the narrows of
a firth, now advances into ampler bays, forming a number of islands. Hence Denmark is cut in
pieces by the intervening waves of ocean, and has but few portions of firm and continuous territory;
these being divided by the mass of waters that break them up, in ways varying with the different
angle of the bend of the sea. Of all these, Jutland, being the largest and first settled, holds
the chief place in the Danish kingdom. It both lies fore-most and stretches furthest, reaching
to the frontiers of Teutonland, from contact with which it is severed by the bed of the river
Eyder. Northwards it swells somewhat in breadth, and runs out to the shore of the Noric Channel
(Skagerrak). In this part is to be found the fjord called Liim, which is so full of fish that
it seems to yield the natives as much food as the whole soil.

Close by this fjord also lies Lesser (North) Friesland, which curves in from the promontory
of Jutland in a cove of sinking plains and shelving lap, and by the favour of the flooding
ocean yields immense crops of grain. But whether this violent inundation bring the inhabitants
more profit or peril, remains a vexed question. For when the (dykes of the) estuaries, whereby
the waves of the sea are commonly checked among that people, are broken through by the greatness
of the storm, such a mass of waters is wont to overrun the fields that it sometimes overwhelms
not only the tilled lands, but people and their dwellings likewise.

Eastwards, after Jutland, comes the Isle of Funen, cut off from the mainland by a very narrow
sound of sea. This faces Jutland on the west, and on the east Zealand, which is famed for its
remarkable richness in the necessaries of life. This latter island, being by far the most delightful
of all the provinces of our country, is held to occupy the heart of Denmark, being divided
by equal distances from the extreme frontier; on its eastern side the sea breaks through and
cuts off the western side of Skaane; and this sea commonly yields each year an abundant haul
to the nets of the fishers. Indeed, the whole sound is apt to be so thronged with fish that
any craft which strikes on them is with difficulty got off by hard rowing, and the prize is
captured no longer by tackle, but by simple use of the hands.

Moreover, Halland and Bleking, shooting forth from the mass of the Skaane like two branches
from a parent trunk, are linked to Gothland and to Norway, though with wide deviations of course,
and with various gaps consisting of fjords. Now in Bleking is to be seen a rock which travellers
can visit, dotted with letters in a strange character. For there stretches from the southern
sea into the desert of Vaarnsland a road of rock, contained between two lines a little way
apart and very prolonged, between which is visible in the midst a level space, graven all over
with characters made to be read. And though this lies so unevenly as sometimes to break through
the tops of the hills, sometimes to pass along the valley bottoms, yet it can be discerned
to preserve continuous traces of the characters. Now Waldemar, well-starred son of holy Canute,
marvelled at these, and desired to know their purport, and sent men to go along the rock and
gather with close search the series of the characters that were to be seen there; they were
then to denote them with certain marks, using letters of similar shape. These men could not
gather any sort of interpretation of them, because owing to the hollow space of the graving
being partly smeared up with mud and partly worn by the feet of travellers in the trampling
of the road, the long line that had been drawn became blurred. Hence it is plain that crevices,
even in the solid rock, if long drenched with wet, become choked either by the solid washings
of dirt or the moistening drip of showers.

But since this country, by its closeness of language as much as of position, includes Sweden
and Norway, I will record their divisions and their climates also as I have those of Denmark.
These territories, lying under the northern pole, and facing Bootes and the Great Bear, reach
with their utmost outlying parts the latitude of the freezing zone; and beyond these the extraordinary
sharpness of the cold suffers not human habitation. Of these two, Norway has been allotted
by the choice of nature a forbidding rocky site. Craggy and barren, it is beset all around
by cliffs, and the huge desolate boulders give it the aspect of a rugged and a gloomy land;
in its furthest part the day-star is not hidden even by night; so that the sun, scorning the
vicissitudes of day and night, ministers in unbroken presence an equal share of his radiance
to either season.

On the west of Norway comes the island called Iceland, with the mighty ocean washing round
it: a land very squalid to dwell in, but noteworthy for marvels, both strange occurrences and
objects that pass belief. A spring is there which, by the malignant reek of its water, destroys
the original nature of anything whatsoever. Indeed, all that is sprinkled with the breath of
its vapour is changed into the hardness of stone. It remains a doubt whether it be more marvellous
or more perilous, that soft and flowing water should be invested with such a stiffness, as
by a sudden change to transmute into the nature of stone whatsoever is put to it and drenched
with its reeking fume, nought but the shape surviving. Here also are said to be other springs,
which now are fed with floods of rising water, and, overflowing in full channels, cast a mass
of spray upwards; and now again their bubbling flags, and they can scarce be seen below at
the bottom, and are swallowed into deep hiding far under ground. Hence, when they are gushing
over, they bespatter everything about them with the white spume, but when they are spent the
sharpest eye cannot discern them. In this island there is likewise a mountain, whose floods
of incessant fire make it look like a glowing rock, and which, by belching out flames, keeps
its crest in an everlasting blaze. This thing awakens our wonder as much as those aforesaid;
namely, when a land lying close to the extreme of cold can have such abundance of matter to
keep up the heat, as to furnish eternal fires with unseen fuel, and supply an endless provocative
to feed the burning. To this isle also, at fixed and appointed seasons, there drifts a boundless
mass of ice, and when it approaches and begins to dash upon the rugged reefs, then, just as
if the cliffs rang reply, there is heard from the deep a roar of voices and a changing din
of extraordinary clamour. Whence it is supposed that spirits, doomed to torture for the iniquity
of their guilty life, do here pay, by that bitter cold, the penalty of their sins. And so any
portion of this mass that is cut off when the aforesaid ice breaks away from the land, soon
slips its bonds and bars, though it be made fast with ever so great joins and knots. The mind
stands dazed in wonder, that a thing which is covered with bolts past picking, and shut in
by manifold and intricate barriers, should so depart after that mass whereof it was a portion,
as by its enforced and inevitable flight to baffle the wariest watching. There also, set among
the ridges and crags of the mountains, is another kind of ice which is known periodically to
change and in a way reverse its position, the upper parts sinking to the bottom, and the lower
again returning to the top. For proof of this story it is told that certain men, while they
chanced to be running over the level of ice, rolled into the abyss before them, and into the
depths of the yawning crevasses, and were a little later picked up dead without the smallest
chink of ice above them. Hence it is common for many to imagine that the urn of the sling of
ice first swallows them, and then a little after turns upside down and restores them. Here
also, is reported to bubble up the water of a pestilent flood, which if a man taste, he falls
struck as though by poison. Also there are other springs, whose gushing waters are said to
resemble the quality of the bowl of Ceres. There are also fires, which, though they cannot
consume linen, yet devour so fluent a thing as water. Also there is a rock, which flies over
mountain-steeps, not from any outward impulse, but of its innate and proper motion.

And now to unfold somewhat more thoroughly our delineation of Norway. It should be known that
on the east it is conterminous with Sweden and Gothland, and is bounded on both sides by the
waters of the neighbouring ocean. Also on the north it faces a region whose position and name
are unknown, and which lacks all civilisation, but teems with peoples of monstrous strangeness;
and a vast interspace of flowing sea severs it from the portion of Norway opposite. This sea
is found hazardous for navigation, and suffers few that venture thereon to return in peace.

Moreover, the upper bend of the ocean, which cuts through Denmark and flows past it, washes
the southern side of Gothland with a gulf of some width; while its lower channel, passing the
northern sides of Gothland and Norway, turns eastwards, widening much in breadth, and is bounded
by a curve of firm land. This limit of the sea the elders of our race called Grandvik. Thus
between Grandvik and the Southern Sea there lies a short span of mainland, facing the seas
that wash on either shore; and but that nature had set this as a boundary where the billows
almost meet, the tides of the two seas would have flowed into one, and cut off Sweden and Norway
into an island. The regions on the east of these lands are inhabited by the Skric-Finns. This
people is used to an extraordinary kind of carriage, and in its passion for the chase strives
to climb untrodden mountains, and attains the coveted ground at the cost of a slippery circuit.
For no crag juts out so high, but they can reach its crest by fetching a cunning compass. For
when they first leave the deep valleys, they glide twisting and circling among the bases of
the rocks, thus making the route very roundabout by dint of continually swerving aside, until,
passing along the winding curves of the tracks, they conquer the appointed summit. This same
people is wont to use the skins of certain beasts for merchandise with its neighbours.

Now Sweden faces Denmark and Norway on the west, but on the south and on much of its eastern
side it is skirted by the ocean. Past this eastward is to be found a vast accumulation of motley
barbarism.

That the country of Denmark was once cultivated and worked by giants, is attested by the enormous
stones attached to the barrows and caves of the ancients. Should any man question that this
is accomplished by superhuman force, let him look up at the tops of certain mountains and say,
if he knows how, what man hath carried such immense boulders up to their crests. For anyone
considering this marvel will mark that it is inconceivable how a mass, hardly at all or but
with difficulty movable upon a level, could have been raised to so mighty a peak of so lofty
a mountain by mere human effort, or by the ordinary exertion of human strength. But as to whether,
after the Deluge went forth, there existed giants who could do such deeds, or men endowed beyond
others with bodily force, there is scant tradition to tell us.

But, as our countrymen aver, those who even to-day are said to dwell in that rugged and inaccessible
desert aforesaid, are, by the mutable nature of their bodies, vouchsafed the power of being
now near, now far, and of appearing and vanishing in turn. The approach to this desert is beset
with perils of a fearful kind, and has seldom granted to those who attempted it an unscathed
return. Now I will let my pen pass to my theme.

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  Waldemar the Second (1203-42); Saxo does not reach his
     history.

BOOK ONE.

Now Dan and Angul, with whom the stock of the Danes begins, were begotten of Humble, their
father, and were the governors and not only the founders of our race. (Yet Dudo, the historian
of Normandy, considers that the Danes are sprung and named from the Danai.) And these two men,
though by the wish and favour of their country they gained the lordship of the realm, and,
owing to the wondrous deserts of their bravery, got the supreme power by the consenting voice
of their countrymen, yet lived without the name of king: the usage whereof was not then commonly
resorted to by any authority among our people.

Of these two, Angul, the fountain, so runs the tradition, of the beginnings of the Anglian
race, caused his name to be applied to the district which he ruled. This was an easy kind of
memorial wherewith to immortalise his fame: for his successors a little later, when they gained
possession of Britain, changed the original name of the island for a fresh title, that of their
own land. This action was much thought of by the ancients: witness Bede, no mean figure among
the writers of the Church, who was a native of England, and made it his care to embody the
doings of his country in the most hallowed treasury of his pages; deeming it equally a religious
duty to glorify in writing the deeds of his land, and to chronicle the history of the Church.

From Dan, however, so saith antiquity; the pedigrees of our kings have flowed in glorious series,
like channels from some parent spring. Grytha, a matron most highly revered among the Teutons,
bore him two sons, HUMBLE and LOTHER. By this ceremony Humble was elected king at his father's
death, thus winning a novel favour from his country; but by the malice of ensuing fate he fell
from a king into a common man. For he was taken by Lother in war, and bought his life by yielding
up his crown; such, in truth, were the only terms of escape offered him in his defeat. Forced,
therefore, by the injustice of a brother to lay down his sovereignty, he furnished the lesson
to mankind, that there is less safety, though more pomp, in the palace than in the cottage.
Also, he bore his wrong so meekly that he seemed to rejoice at his loss of title as though
it were a blessing; and I think he had a shrewd sense of the quality of a king's estate. But
Lother played the king as insupportably as he had played the soldier, inaugurating his reign
straightway with arrogance and crime; for he counted it uprightness to strip all the most eminent
of life or goods, and to clear his country of its loyal citizens, thinking all his equals in
birth his rivals for the crown. He was soon chastised for his wickedness; for he met his end
in an insurrection of his country; which had once bestowed on him his kingdom, and now bereft
him of his life.

SKIOLD, his son, inherited his natural bent, but not his behaviour; avoiding his inborn perversity
by great discretion in his tender years, and thus escaping all traces of his father's taint.
So he appropriated what was alike the more excellent and the earlier share of the family character;
for he wisely departed from his father's sins, and became a happy counterpart of his grandsire's
virtues. This man was famous in his youth among the huntsmen of his father for his conquest
of a monstrous beast: a marvellous incident, which augured his future prowess. For he chanced
to obtain leave from his guardians, who were rearing him very carefully, to go and see the
hunting. A bear of extraordinary size met him; he had no spear, but with the girdle that he
commonly wore he contrived to bind it, and gave it to his escort to kill. More than this, many
champions of tried prowess were at the same time of his life vanquished by him singly; of these
Attal and Skat were renowned and famous. While but fifteen years of age he was of unusual bodily
size and displayed mortal strength in its perfection, and so mighty were the proofs of his
powers that the rest of the kings of the Danes were called after him by a common title, the
SKIOLDUNG'S. Those who were wont to live an abandoned and flaccid life, and to sap their self-control
by wantonness, this man vigilantly spurred to the practice of virtue in an active career. Thus
the ripeness of Skiold's spirit outstripped the fulness of his strength, and he fought battles
at which one of his tender years could scarce look on. And as he thus waxed in years and valour
he beheld the perfect beauty of Alfhild, daughter of the King of the Saxons, sued for her hand,
and, for her sake, in the sight of the armies of the Teutons and the Danes, challenged and
fought with Skat, governor of Allemannia, and a suitor for the same maiden; whom he slew, afterwards
crushing the whole nation of the Allemannians, and forcing them to pay tribute, they being
subjugated by the death of their captain. Skiold was eminent for patriotism as well as arms.
For he annulled unrighteous laws, and most heedfully executed whatsoever made for the amendment
of his country's condition. Further, he regained by his virtue the realm that his father's
wickedness had lost. He was the first to proclaim the law abolishing manumissions. A slave,
to whom he had chanced to grant his freedom, had attempted his life by stealthy treachery,
and he exacted a bitter penalty; as though it were just that the guilt of one freedman should
be visited upon all. He paid off all men's debts from his own treasury, and contended, so to
say, with all other monarchs in courage, bounty, and generous dealing. The sick he used to
foster, and charitably gave medicines to those sore stricken; bearing witness that he had taken
on him the care of his country and not of himself. He used to enrich his nobles not only with
home taxes, but also with plunder taken in war; being wont to aver that the prize-money should
flow to the soldiers, and the glory to the general.

Thus delivered of his bitterest rival in wooing, he took as the prize of combat the maiden,
for the love of whom he had fought, and wedded her in marriage. Soon after, he had by her a
son, GRAM, whose wondrous parts savoured so strongly of his father's virtues that he was deemed
to tread in their very footsteps. The days of Gram's youth were enriched with surpassing gifts
of mind and body, and he raised them to the crest of renown. Posterity did such homage to his
greatness that in the most ancient poems of the Danes royal dignity is implied in his very
name. He practiced with the most zealous training whatsoever serves to sharpen and strengthen
the bodily powers. Taught by the fencers, he trained himself by sedulous practice to parrying
and dealing blows. He took to wife the daughter of his upbringer, Roar, she being his foster-sister
and of his own years, in order the better to show his gratefulness for his nursing. A little
while after he gave her in marriage to a certain Bess, since he had ofttimes used his strenuous
service. In this partner of his warlike deeds he put his trust; and he has left it a question
whether he has won more renown by Bess's valour or his own.

Gram, chancing to hear that Groa, daughter of Sigtryg, King of the Swedes, was plighted to
a certain giant, and holding accursed an union so unworthy of the blood royal, entered on a
Swedish war; being destined to emulate the prowess of Hercules in resisting the attempts of
monsters. He went into Gothland, and, in order to frighten people out of his path, strode on
clad in goats' skins, swathed in the motley hides of beasts, and grasping in his right hand
a dreadful weapon, thus feigning the attire of a giant; when he met Groa herself riding with
a very small escort of women on foot, and making her way, as it chanced, to the forest-pools
to bathe, she thought it was her betrothed who had hastened to meet her, and was scared with
feminine alarm at so strange a garb: so, flinging up the reins, and shaking terribly all over,
she began in the song of her country, thus:

"I see that a giant, hated of the king, has come, and darkens the highways with his stride.
Or my eyes play me false; for it has oft befallen bold warriors to skulk behind the skin of
a beast."

Then began Bess: "Maiden, seated on the shoulders of the steed, tell me, pouring forth in thy
turn words of answer, what is thy name, and of what line art thou born?"

Groa replied: "Groa is my name; my sire is a king, glorious in blood, gleaming in armour. Disclose
to us, thou also, who thou art, or whence sprung!"

To whom Bess: "I am Bess, brave in battle, ruthless to foes, a terror to nations, and oft drenching
my right hand in the blood of foes."

Then said Groa: "Who, prithee, commands your lines? Under what captain raise ye the war-standards?
What prince controls the battle? Under whose guidance is the war made ready?"

Bess in answer: "Gram, the blest in battle, rules the array: force nor fear can swerve him;
flaming pyre and cruel sword and ocean billow have never made him afraid. Led by him, maiden,
we raise the golden standards of war."

Groa once more: "Turn your feet and go back hence, lest Sigtryg vanquish you all with his own
array, and fasten you to a cruel stake, your throats haltered with the cord, and doom your
carcases to the stiff noose, and, glaring evilly, thrust out your corpses to the hungry raven."

Bess again: "Gram, ere he shall shut his own eyes in death, shall first make him a ghost, and,
smiting him on the crest, shall send him to Tartarus. We fear no camp of the Swedes. Why threaten
us with ghastly dooms, maiden?"

Groa answered him: "Behold, I will ride thence to see again the roof of my father which I know,
that I may not rashly set eyes on the array of my brother who is coming. And I pray that your
death-doom may tarry for you who abide."

Bess replied: "Daughter, to thy father go back with good cheer; nor imprecate swift death upon
us, nor let choler shake thy bosom. For often has a woman, harsh at first and hard to a wooer,
yielded the second time."

Whereupon Gram could brook no longer to be silent, and pitching his tones gruffly, so as to
mimic a gruesome and superhuman voice, accosted the maiden thus:

"Let not the maiden fear the brother of the fleet giant, nor turn pale because I am nigh her.
For I am sent by Grip, and never seek the couch and embrace of damsels save when their wish
matches mine."

Groa answered: "Who so mad as to wish to be the leman of giants? Or what woman could love the
bed that genders monsters? Who could be the wife of demons, and know the seed whose fruit is
monstrous? Or who would fain share her couch with a barbarous giant? Who caresses thorns with
her fingers? Who would mingle honest kisses with mire? Who would unite shaggy limbs to smooth
ones which correspond not? Full ease of love cannot be taken when nature cries out against
it: nor doth the love customary in the use of women sort with monsters."

Gram rejoined: "Oft with conquering hand I have tamed the necks of mighty kings, defeating
with stronger arm their insolent pride. Thence take red-glowing gold, that the troth may be
made firm by the gift, and that the faith to be brought to our wedlock may stand fast."

Thus speaking, he cast off his disguises, and revealed his natural comeliness; and by a single
sight of him he filled the damsel with well-nigh as much joy as he had struck her with fear
before at his counterfeit. She was even incited to his embraces by the splendour of his beauty;
nor did he fail to offer her the gifts of love.

Having won Groa, Bess proceeded and learnt that the road was beset by two robbers. These he
slew simply by charging them as they rushed covetously forth to despoil him. This done, loth
to seem to have done any service to the soil of an enemy, he put timbers under the carcases
of the slain, fastened them thereto, and stretched them so as to counterfeit an upright standing
position; so that in their death they might menace in seeming those whom their life had harmed
in truth; and that, terrible even after their decease, they might block the road in effigy
as much as they had once in deed. Whence it appears that in slaying the robbers he took thought
for himself and not for Sweden: for he betokened by so singular an act how great a hatred of
Sweden filled him. Having heard from the diviners that Sigtryg could only be conquered by gold,
he straightway fixed a knob of gold to a wooden mace, equipped himself therewith in the war
wherein he attacked the king, and obtained his desire. This exploit was besung by Bess in a
most zealous strain of eulogy:

"Gram, the fierce wielder of the prosperous mace, knowing not the steel, rained blows on the
outstretched sword, and with a stock beat off the lances of the mighty.

"Following the decrees and will of the gods, he brought low the glory of the powerless Swedes,
doing their king to death and crushing him with the stiff gold.

"For he pondered on the arts of war: he wielded in his clasp the ruddy-flashing wood, and victoriously
with noble stroke made their fallen captain writhe.

"Shrewdly he conquered with the hardness of gold him whom fate forbade should be slain by steel;
unsworded, waging war with the worthier metal.

"This treasure, for which its deviser claims glory and the height of honour, shall abide yet
more illustrious hereafter, known far and wide in ampler fame."

Having now slain Sigtryg, the King of Sweden, Gram desired to confirm his possession of the
empire which he had won in war; and therefore, suspecting Swarin the governor of Gothland of
aspiring to the crown, he challenged him to combat, and slew him. This man's brethren, of whom
he had seven lawfully born, and nine the sons of a concubine, sought to avenge their brother's
death, but Gram, in an unequal contest, cut them off.

Gram, for his marvellous prowess, was granted a share in the sovereignty by his father, who
was now in extreme age, and thought it better and likewise more convenient to give his own
blood a portion of the supremacy of the realm, than now in the setting of his life to administer
it without a partner. Therefore Ring, a nobly-born Zealander, stirred the greater part of the
Danes with desire for insurrection; fancying that one of these men was unripe for his rank,
and that the other had run the course of his powers, alleging the weakness in years of both,
and declaring that the wandering wit of an old man made the one, and that of a boy the other,
unfit for royal power. But they fought and crushed him, making him an example to all men, that
no season of life is to be deemed incompatible with valour.

Many other deeds also King Gram did. He declared war against Sumble, King of the Finns; but
when he set eyes upon the King's daughter, Signe, he laid down his arms, the foeman turned
into the suitor, and, promising to put away his own wife, he plighted troth with her. But,
while much busied with a war against Norway, which he had taken up against King Swipdag for
debauching his sister and his daughter, he heard from a messenger that Signe had, by Sumble's
treachery, been promised in marriage to Henry, King of Saxony. Then, inclining to love the
maiden more than his soldiers, he left his army, privily made his way to Finland, and came
in upon the wedding, which was already begun. Putting on a garb of the utmost meanness, he
lay down at the table in a seat of no honour. When asked what he brought, he professed skill
in leechcraft. At last, when all were drenched in drunkenness, he gazed at the maiden, and
amid the revels of the riotous banquet, cursing deep the fickleness of women, and vaunting
loud his own deeds of valour, he poured out the greatness of his wrath in a song like this:

"Singly against eight at once I drove the darts of death, and smote nine with a back-swung
sword, when I slew Swarin, who wrongfully assumed his honours and tried to win fame unmerited;
wherefore I have oft dyed in foreign blood my blade red with death and reeking with slaughter,
and have never blenched at the clash of dagger or the sheen of helmet. Now Signe, the daughter
of Sumble, vilely spurns me, and endures vows not mine, cursing her ancient troth; and, conceiving
an ill-ordered love, commits a notable act of female lightness; for she entangles, lures, and
bestains princes, rebuffing beyond all others the lordly of birth; yet remaining firm to none,
but ever wavering, and bringing to birth impulses doubtful and divided."

And as he spoke he leapt up from where he lay, and there he cut Henry down while at the sacred
board and the embraces of his friends, carried off his bride from amongst the bridesmaids,
felled most of the guests, and bore her off with him in his ship. Thus the bridal was turned
into a funeral; and the Finns might learn the lesson, that hands should not be laid upon the
loves of other men.

After this SWIPDAG, King of Norway, destroyed Gram, who was attempting to avenge the outrage
on his sister and the attempt on his daughter's chastity. This battle was notable for the presence
of the Saxon forces, who were incited to help Swipdag, not so much by love of him, as by desire
to avenge Henry.

GUTHORM and HADDING, the son of Gram (Groa being the mother of the first and Signe of the second),
were sent over to Sweden in a ship by their foster-father, Brage (Swipdag being now master
of Denmark), and put in charge of the giants Wagnhofde and Hafle, for guard as well as rearing.

As I shall have briefly to relate doings of these folk, and would fain not seem to fabricate
what conflicts with common belief or outsteps the faithful truth, it is worth the knowing that
there were in old times three kinds of magicians who by diverse sleights practiced extraordinary
marvels. The first of these were men of monstrous stock, termed by antiquity giants; these
by their exceeding great bodily stature surpassed the size natural to mankind. Those who came
after these were the first who gained skill in divination from entrails, and attained the Pythonic
art. These surpassed the former in briskness of mental parts as much as they fell behind them
in bodily condition. Constant wars for the supremacy were waged between these and the giants;
till at last the sorcerers prevailed, subdued the tribe of giants by arms, and acquired not
merely the privilege of ruling, but also the repute of being divine. Both of these kinds had
extreme skill in deluding the eyesight, knowing how to obscure their own faces and those of
others with divers semblances, and to darken the true aspects of things with beguiling shapes.
But the third kind of men, springing from the natural union of the first two, did not answer
to the nature of their parents either in bodily size or in practice of magic arts; yet these
gained credit for divinity with minds that were befooled by their jugglings.

Nor must we marvel if, tempted by the prodigious miracles of these folk, the barbaric world
fell to worshipping a false religion, when others like unto these, who were mere mortals, but
were reverenced with divine honours, beguiled even the shrewdness of the Latins. I have touched
on these things lest, when I relate of sleights and marvels, I be checked by the disbelief
of the reader. Now I will leave these matters and return to my theme.

Swipdag, now that he had slain Gram, was enriched with the realms of Denmark and Sweden; and
because of the frequent importunities of his wife he brought back from banishment her brother
Guthorm, upon his promising tribute, and made him ruler of the Danes. But Hadding preferred
to avenge his father rather than take a boon from his foe.

This man's nature so waxed and throve that in the early season of his youth he was granted
the prime of manhood. Leaving the pursuit of pleasure, he was constantly zealous in warlike
exercises; remembering that he was the son of a fighting father, and was bound to spend his
whole span of life in approved deeds of warfare. Hardgrep, daughter of Wagnhofde, tried to
enfeeble his firm spirit with her lures of love, contending and constantly averring that he
ought to offer the first dues of the marriage bed in wedlock with her, who had proffered to
his childhood most zealous and careful fostering, and had furnished him with his first rattle.

Nor was she content with admonishing in plain words, but began a strain of song as follows:

"Why doth thy life thus waste and wander? Why dost thou pass thy years unwed, following arms,
thirsting for throats? Nor does my beauty draw thy vows. Carried away by excess of frenzy,
thou art little prone to love. Steeped in blood and slaughter, thou judgest wars better than
the bed, nor refreshest thy soul with incitements. Thy fierceness finds no leisure; dalliance
is far from thee, and savagery fostered. Nor is thy hand free from blasphemy while thou loathest
the rites of love. Let this hateful strictness pass away, let that loving warmth approach,
and plight the troth of love to me, who gave thee the first breasts of milk in childhood, and
helped thee, playing a mother's part, duteous to thy needs."

When he answered that the size of her body was unwieldy for the embraces of a mortal, since
doubtless her nature was framed in conformity to her giant stock, she said:

"Be not moved by my unwonted look of size. For my substance is sometimes thinner, sometimes
ampler; now meagre, now abundant; and I alter and change at my pleasure the condition of my
body, which is at one time shrivelled up and at another time expanded: now my tallness rises
to the heavens, and now I settle down into a human being, under a more bounded shape."

As he still faltered, and was slow to believe her words, she added the following song:

"Youth, fear not the converse of my bed. I change my bodily outline in twofold wise, and am
wont to enjoin a double law upon my sinews. For I conform to shapes of different figure in
turn, and am altered at my own sweet will: now my neck is star-high, and soars nigh to the
lofty Thunderer; then it falls and declines to human strength, and plants again on earth that
head which was near the firmament. Thus I lightly shift my body into diverse phases, and am
beheld in varying wise; for changefully now cramped stiffness draws in my limbs, now the virtue
of my tall body unfolds them, and suffers them to touch the cloud-tops. Now I am short and
straitened, now stretch out with loosened knee; and I have mutably changed myself like wax
into strange aspects. He who knows of Proteus should not marvel at me. My shape never stays
the same, and my aspect is twofold: at one time it contrasts its outstretched limbs, at another
shoots them out when closed; now disentangling the members and now rolling them back into a
coil. I dart out my ingathered limbs, and presently, while they are strained, I wrinkle them
up, dividing my countenance between shapes twain, and adopting two forms; with the greater
of these I daunt the fierce, while with the shorter I seek the embraces of men."

By thus averring she obtained the embraces of Hadding; and her love for the youth burned so
high that when she found him desirous of revisiting his own land, she did not hesitate to follow
him in man's attire, and counted it as joy to share his hardships and perils. While upon the
journey she had undertaken, she chanced to enter in his company, in order to pass the night,
a dwelling, the funeral of whose dead master was being conducted with melancholy rites. Here,
desiring to pry into the purposes of heaven by the help of a magical espial, she graved on
wood some very dreadful spells, and caused Hadding to put them under the dead man's tongue;
thus forcing him to utter, with the voice so given, a strain terrible to hear:

"Perish accursed he who hath dragged me back from those below, let him be punished for calling
a spirit out of bale!

"Whoso hath called me, who am lifeless and dead, back from the abode below, and hath brought
me again into upper air, let him pay full penalty with his own death in the dreary shades beneath
livid Styx. Behold, counter to my will and purpose, I must declare some bitter tidings. For
as ye go away from this house ye will come to the narrow path of a grove, and will be a prey
to demons all about. Then she who hath brought our death back from out of void, and has given
us a sight of this light once more, by her prayers wondrously drawing forth the ghost and casting
it into the bonds of the body, shall bitterly bewail her rash enterprise.

"For when the black pestilence of the blast that engenders monsters has crushed out the inmost
entrails with stern effort, and when their hand has swept away the living with cruel nail,
tearing off limbs and rending ravished bodies; then Hadding, thy life shall survive, nor shall
the nether realms bear off thy ghost, nor thy spirit pass heavily to the waters of Styx; but
the woman who hath made the wretched ghost come back hither, crushed by her own guilt, shall
appease our dust; she shall be dust herself.

So, while they were passing the night in the forest foretold them, in a shelter framed of twigs,
a hand of extraordinary size was seen to wander over the inside of the dwelling. Terrified
at this portent, Hadding entreated the aid of his nurse. Then Hardgrep, expanding her limbs
and swelling to a mighty bigness, gripped the hand fast and held it to her foster-child to
hew off. What flowed from the noisesome wounds he dealt was not so much blood as corrupt matter.
But she paid the penalty of this act, presently being torn in pieces by her kindred of the
same stock; nor did her constitution or her bodily size help her against feeling the attacks
of her foes' claws.

Hadding, thus bereft of his foster-mother, chanced to be made an ally in a solemn covenant
to a rover, Lysir, by a certain man of great age that had lost an eye, who took pity on his
loneliness. Now the ancients, when about to make a league, were wont to besprinkle their footsteps
with blood of one another, so to ratify their pledge of friendship by reciprocal barter of
blood. Lysir and Hadding, being bound thus in the strictest league, declared war against Loker,
the tyrant of the Kurlanders. They were defeated; and the old man aforementioned took Hadding,
as he fled on horseback, to his own house, and there refreshed him with a certain pleasant
draught, telling him that he would find himself quite brisk and sound in body. This prophetic
advice he confirmed by a song as follows:

"As thou farest hence, a foe, thinking thee a deserter, will assail thee, that he may keep
thee bound and cast thee to be devoured by the mangling jaws of beasts. But fill thou the ears
of the warders with divers tales, and when they have done the feast and deep sleep holds them,
snap off the fetters upon thee and the loathly chains. Turn thy feet thence, and when a little
space has fled, with all thy might rise up against a swift lion who is wont to toss the carcases
of the prisoners, and strive with thy stout arms against his savage shoulders, and with naked
sword search his heart-strings. Straightway put thy throat to him and drink the steaming blood,
and devour with ravenous jaws the banquet of his body. Then renewed strength will come to thy
limbs, then shall undreamed-of might enter thy sinews, and an accumulation of stout force shall
bespread and nerve thy frame through-out. I myself will pave the path to thy prayers, and will
subdue the henchmen in sleep, and keep them snoring throughout the lingering night."

And as he spoke, he took back the young man on his horse, and set him where he had found him.
Hadding cowered trembling under his mantle; but so extreme was his wonder at the event, that
with keen vision he peered through its holes. And he saw that before the steps of the horse
lay the sea; but was told not to steal a glimpse of the forbidden thing, and therefore turned
aside his amazed eyes from the dread spectacle of the roads that he journeyed. Then he was
taken by Loker, and found by very sure experience that every point of the prophecy was fulfilled
upon him. So he assailed Handwan, king of the Hellespont, who was entrenched behind an impregnable
defence of wall in his city Duna, and withstood him not in the field, but with battlements.
Its summit defying all approach by a besieger, he ordered that the divers kinds of birds who
were wont to nest in that spot should be caught by skilled fowlers, and he caused wicks which
had been set on fire to be fastened beneath their wings. The birds sought the shelter of their
own nests, and filled the city with a blaze; all the townsmen flocked to quench it, and left
the gates defenceless. He attacked and captured Handwan, but suffered him to redeem his life
with gold for ransom. Thus, when he might have cut off his foe, he preferred to grant him the
breath of life; so far did his mercy qualify his rage.

After this he prevailed over a great force of men of the East, and came back to Sweden. Swipdag
met him with a great fleet off Gottland; but Hadding attacked and destroyed him. And thus he
advanced to a lofty pitch of renown, not only by the fruits of foreign spoil, but by the trophies
of his vengeance for his brother and his father. And he exchanged exile for royalty, for he
became king of his own land as soon as he regained it.

At this time there was one Odin, who was credited over all Europe with the honour, which was
false, of godhead, but used more continually to sojourn at Upsala; and in this spot, either
from the sloth of the inhabitants or from its own pleasantness, he vouchsafed to dwell with
somewhat especial constancy. The kings of the North, desiring more zealously to worship his
deity, embounded his likeness in a golden image; and this statue, which betokened their homage,
they transmitted with much show of worship to Byzantium, fettering even the effigied arms with
a serried mass of bracelets. Odin was overjoyed at such notoriety, and greeted warmly the devotion
of the senders. But his queen Frigga, desiring to go forth more beautified, called smiths,
and had the gold stripped from the statue. Odin hanged them, and mounted the statue upon a
pedestal, which by the marvellous skill of his art he made to speak when a mortal touched it.
But still Frigga preferred the splendour of her own apparel to the divine honours of her husband,
and submitted herself to the embraces of one of her servants; and it was by this man's device
she broke down the image, and turned to the service of her private wantonness that gold which
had been devoted to public idolatry. Little thought she of practicing unchastity, that she
might the easier satisfy her greed, this woman so unworthy to be the consort of a god; but
what should I here add, save that such a godhead was worthy of such a wife? So great was the
error that of old befooled the minds of men. Thus Odin, wounded by the double trespass of his
wife, resented the outrage to his image as keenly as that to his bed; and, ruffled by these
two stinging dishonours, took to an exile overflowing with noble shame, imagining so to wipe
off the slur of his ignominy.

When he had retired, one Mit-othin, who was famous for his juggling tricks, was likewise quickened,
as though by inspiration from on high, to seize the opportunity of feigning to be a god; and,
wrapping the minds of the barbarians in fresh darkness, he led them by the renown of his jugglings
to pay holy observance to his name. He said that the wrath of the gods could never be appeased
nor the outrage to their deity expiated by mixed and indiscriminate sacrifices, and therefore
forbade that prayers for this end should be put up without distinction, appointing to each
of those above his especial drink-offering. But when Odin was returning, he cast away all help
of jugglings, went to Finland to hide himself, and was there attacked and slain by the inhabitants.
Even in his death his abominations were made manifest, for those who came nigh his barrow were
cut off by a kind of sudden death; and after his end, he spread such pestilence that he seemed
almost to leave a filthier record in his death than in his life: it was as though he would
extort from the guilty a punishment for his slaughter. The inhabitants, being in this trouble,
took the body out of the mound, beheaded it, and impaled it through the breast with a sharp
stake; and herein that people found relief.

The death of Odin's wife revived the ancient splendour of his name, and seemed to wipe out
the disgrace upon his deity; so, returning from exile, he forced all those, who had used his
absence to assume the honours of divine rank, to resign them as usurped; and the gangs of sorcerers
that had arisen he scattered like a darkness before the advancing glory of his godhead. And
he forced them by his power not only to lay down their divinity, but further to quit the country,
deeming that they, who tried to foist themselves so iniquitously into the skies, ought to be
outcasts from the earth.

Meanwhile Asmund, the son of Swipdag, fought with Hadding to avenge his father. And when he
heard that Henry his son, his love for whom he set even before his own life, had fallen fighting
valiantly, his soul longed for death, and loathed the light of day, and made a song in a strain
like this:

"What brave hath dared put on my armour? The sheen of the helmet serves not him who tottereth,
nor doth the breastplate fitly shelter him that is sore spent. Our son is slain, let us riot
in battle; my eager love for him driveth me to my death, that I may not be left outliving my
dear child. In each hand I am fain to grasp the sword; now without shield let us ply our warfare
bare-breasted, with flashing blades. Let the rumour of our rage beacon forth: boldly let us
grind to powder the column of the foe; nor let the battle be long and chafe us; nor let our
onset be shattered in rout and be still."

When he had said this, he gripped his hilt with both hands, and, fearless of peril, swung his
shield upon his back and slew many. Hadding therefore called on the powers with which he was
allied to protect him, and on a sudden Wagnhofde rode up to fight on his side. And when Asmund
saw his crooked sword, he cried out, and broke into the following strain:

"Why fightest thou with curved sword? The short sword shall prove thy doom, the javelin shall
be flung and bring forth death. Thou shouldst conquer thy foe by thy hand, but thou trustest
that he can be rent by spells; thou trustest more in words than rigour, and puttest thy strength
in thy great resource. Why dost thus beat me back with thy shield, threatening with thy bold
lance, when thou art so covered with wretched crimes and spotted all over? Thus hath the brand
of shame bestained thee, rotting in sin, lubber-lipped."

While he thus clamoured, Hadding, flinging his spear by the thong, pierced him through. But
Asmund lacked not comfort even for his death; for while his life flickered in the socket he
wounded the foot of his slayer, and by this short instant of revenge he memorized his fall,
punishing the other with an incurable limp. Thus crippling of a limb befell one of them and
loss of life the other. Asmund's body was buried in solemn state at Upsala and attended with
royal obsequies. His wife Gunnhild, loth to outlive him, cut off her own life with the sword,
choosing rather to follow her lord in death than to forsake him by living. Her friends, in
consigning her body to burial, laid her with her husband's dust, thinking her worthy to share
the mound of the man, her love for whom she had set above life. So there lies Gunnhild, clasping
her lord somewhat more beautifully in the tomb than she had ever done in the bed.

After this Hadding, now triumphant, wasted Sweden. But Asmund's son, named Uffe, shrinking
from a conflict, transported his army into Denmark, thinking it better to assail the house
of his enemy than to guard his own, and deeming it a timely method of repelling his wrongs
to retaliate upon his foe what he was suffering at his hands. Thus the Danes had to return
and defend their own, preferring the safety of their land to lordship of a foreign realm; and
Uffe went back to his own country, now rid of an enemy's arms.

Hadding, on returning from the Swedish war, perceived that his treasury, wherein he was wont
to store the wealth he had gotten by the spoils of war, had been forced and robbed, and straightway
hanged its keeper Glumer, proclaiming by a crafty device, that, if any of the culprits brought
about the recovery of the stolen goods, he should have the same post of honour as Glumer had
filled. Upon this promise, one of the guilty men became more zealous to reap the bounty than
to hide his crime, and had the money brought back to the king. His confederates fancied he
had been received into the king's closest friendship, and believed that the honours paid him
were as real as they were lavish; and therefore they also, hoping to be as well rewarded, brought
back their moneys and avowed their guilt. Their confession was received at first with promotion
and favours, and soon visited with punishment, thus bequeathing a signal lesson against being
too confiding. I should judge that men, whose foolish blabbing brought them to destruction,
when wholesome silence could have ensured their safety, well deserved to atone upon the gallows
for their breach of reticence.

After this Hadding passed the whole winter season in the utmost preparation for the renewal
of the war. When the frosts had been melted by the springtime sun, he went back to Sweden and
there spent five years in warfare. By dint of this prolonged expedition, his soldiers, having
consumed all their provision, were reduced almost to the extremity of emaciation, and began
to assuage their hunger with mushrooms from the wood. At last, under stress of extreme necessity,
they devoured their horses, and finally satisfied themselves with the carcases of dogs. Worse
still, they did not scruple to feed upon human limbs. So, when the Danes were brought unto
the most desperate straits, there sounded in the camp, in the first sleep of the night, and
no man uttering it, the following song:

"With foul augury have ye left the abode of your country, thinking to harry these fields in
War. What idle notion mocks your minds? What blind self-confidence has seized your senses,
that ye think this soil can thus be won. The might of Sweden cannot yield or quail before the
War of the stranger; but the whole of your column shall melt away when it begins to assault
our people in War. For when flight has broken up the furious onset, and the straggling part
of the fighters wavers, then to those who prevail in the War is given free scope to slay those
who turn their backs, and they have earned power to smite the harder when fate drives the renewer
of the war headlong. Nor let him whom cowardice deters aim the spears."

This prophecy was accomplished on the morrow's dawn by a great slaughter of the Danes. On the
next night the warriors of Sweden heard an utterance like this, none knowing who spake it:

"Why doth Uffe thus defy me with grievous rebellion? He shall pay the utmost penalty. For he
shall be buried and transpierced under showers of lances, and shall fall lifeless in atonement
for his insolent attempt. Nor shall the guilt of his wanton rancour be unpunished; and, as
I forebode, as soon as he joins battle and fights, the points shall fasten in his limbs and
strike his body everywhere, and his raw gaping wounds no bandage shall bind up; nor shall any
remedy heal over thy wide gashes."

On that same night the armies fought; when two hairless old men, of appearance fouler than
human, and displaying their horrid baldness in the twinkling starlight, divided their monstrous
efforts with opposing ardour, one of them being zealous on the Danish side, and the other as
fervent for the Swedes. Hadding was conquered and fled to Helsingland, where, while washing
in the cold sea-water his body which was scorched with heat, he attacked and cut down with
many blows a beast of unknown kind, and having killed it had it carried into camp. As he was
exulting in this deed a woman met him and addressed him in these words:

"Whether thou tread the fields afoot, or spread canvas overseas, thou shalt suffer the hate
of the gods, and through all the world shalt behold the elements oppose thy purposes. Afield
thou shalt fall, on sea thou shalt be tossed, an eternal tempest shall attend the steps of
thy wandering, nor shall frost-bind ever quit thy sails; nor shall thy roof-tree roof thee,
but if thou seekest it, it shall fall smitten by the hurricane; thy herd shall perish of bitter
chill. All things shall be tainted, and shall lament that thy lot is there. Thou shalt be shunned
like a pestilent tetter, nor shall any plague be fouler than thou. Such chastisement doth the
power of heaven mete out to thee, for truly thy sacrilegious hands have slain one of the dweller's
above, disguised in a shape that was not his: thus here art thou, the slayer of a benignant
god! But when the sea receives thee, the wrath of the prison of Eolus shall be loosed upon
thy head. The West and the furious North, the South wind shall beat thee down, shall league
and send forth their blasts in rivalry; until with better prayers thou hast melted the sternness
of heaven, and hast lifted with appeasement the punishment thou hast earned."

So, when Hadding went back, he suffered all things after this one fashion, and his coming brought
disquiet upon all peaceful places. For when he was at sea a mighty storm arose and destroyed
his fleet in a great tempest: and when, a shipwrecked man, he sought entertainment, he found
a sudden downfall of that house. Nor was there any cure for his trouble, ere he atoned by sacrifice
for his crime, and was able to return into favour with heaven. For, in order to appease the
deities, he sacrificed dusky victims to the god Frey. This manner of propitiation by sacrifice
he repeated as an annual feast, and left posterity to follow. This rite the Swedes call Froblod
(the sacrifice or feast of Frey).

Hadding chanced to hear that a certain giant had taken in troth Ragnhild, daughter of Hakon,
King of the Nitherians; and, loathing so ignominious a state of affairs, and utterly abominating
the destined union, he forestalled the marriage by noble daring. For he went to Norway and
overcame by arms him that was so foul, a lover for a princess. For he thought so much more
of valour than of ease, that, though he was free to enjoy all the pleasures of a king, he accounted
it sweeter than any delight to repel the wrongs done, not only to himself, but to others. The
maiden, not knowing him, ministered with healing tendance to the man that had done her kindness
and was bruised with many wounds. And in order that lapse of time might not make her forget
him, she shut up a ring in his wound, and thus left a mark on his leg. Afterwards her father
granted her freedom to choose her own husband; so when the young men were assembled at banquet,
she went along them and felt their bodies carefully, searching for the tokens she had stored
up long ago. All the rest she rejected, but Hadding she discovered by the sign of the secret
ring; then she embraced him, and gave herself to be the wife of him who had not suffered a
giant to win her in marriage.

While Hadding was sojourning with her a marvellous portent befell him. While he was at supper,
a woman bearing hemlocks was seen to raise her head beside the brazier, and, stretching out
the lap of her robe, seemed to ask, "in what part of the world such fresh herbs had grown in
winter?" The king desired to know; and, wrapping him in her mantle, she drew him with her underground,
and vanished. I take it that the nether gods purposed that he should pay a visit in the flesh
to the regions whither he must go when he died. So they first pierced through a certain dark
misty cloud, and then advancing along a path that was worn away with long thoroughfaring, they
beheld certain men wearing rich robes, and nobles clad in purple; these passed, they at last
approached sunny regions which produced the herbs the woman had brought away. Going further,
they came on a swift and tumbling river of leaden waters, whirling down on its rapid current
divers sorts of missiles, and likewise made passable by a bridge. When they had crossed this,
they beheld two armies encountering one another with might and main. And when Hadding inquired
of the woman about their estate: "These," she said, "are they who, having been slain by the
sword, declare the manner of their death by a continual rehearsal, and enact the deeds of their
past life in a living spectacle." Then a wall hard to approach and to climb blocked their further
advance. The woman tried to leap it, but in vain, being unable to do so even with her slender
wrinkled body; then she wrung off the head of a cock which she chanced to be taking down with
her, and flung it beyond the barrier of the walls; and forthwith the bird came to life again,
and testified by a loud crow to recovery of its breathing. Then Hadding turned back and began
to make homewards with his wife; some rovers bore down on him, but by swift sailing he baffled
their snares; for though it was almost the same wind that helped both, they were behind him
as he clove the billows, and, as they had only just as much sail, could not overtake him.

Meantime Uffe, who had a marvellously fair daughter, decreed that the man who slew Hadding
should have her. This sorely tempted one Thuning, who got together a band of men of Perm (Byarmenses),
being fain so to win the desired advancement. Hadding was going to fall upon him, but while
he was passing Norway in his fleet he saw upon the beach an old man signing to him, with many
wavings of his mantle, to put into shore. His companions opposed it, and declared that it would
be a ruinous diversion from their journey; but he took the man on board, and was instructed
by him how to order his army. For this man, in arranging the system of the columns, used to
take special care that the front row consisted of two, the second of four, while the third
increased and was made up to eight, and likewise each row was double that in front of it. Also
the old man bade the wings of the slingers go back to the extremity of the line, and put with
them the ranks of the archers. So when the squadrons were arranged in the wedge, he stood himself
behind the warriors, and from the wallet which was slung round his neck drew an arbalist. This
seemed small at first, but soon projected with more prolonged tip, and accommodated ten arrows
to its string at once, which were shot all at once at the enemy in a brisk volley, and inflicted
as many wounds. Then the men of Perm, quitting arms for cunning, by their spells loosed the
sky in clouds of rain, and melted the joyous visage of the air in dismal drenching showers.
But the old man, on the other hand, drove back with a cloud the heavy mass of storm which had
arisen, and checked the dripping rain by this barrier of mist. Thus Hadding prevailed. But
the old man, when he parted from him, foretold that the death whereby he would perish would
be inflicted, not by the might of an enemy, but by his own hand. Also he forbade him to prefer
obscure wars to such as were glorious, and border wars to those remote.

Hadding, after leaving him, was bidden by Uffe to Upsala on pretence of a interview; but lost
all his escort by treachery, and made his escape sheltered by the night. For when the Danes
sought to leave the house into which they had been gathered on pretext of a banquet, they found
one awaiting them, who mowed off the head of each of them with his sword as it was thrust out
of the door. For this wrongful act Hadding retaliated and slew Uffe; but put away his hatred
and consigned his body to a sepulchre of notable handiwork, thus avowing the greatness of his
foe by his pains to beautify his tomb, and decking in death with costly distinctions the man
whom he used to pursue in his life with hot enmity. Then, to win the hearts of the people he
had subdued, he appointed Hunding, the brother of Uffe, over the realm, that the sovereignty
might seem to be maintained in the house of Asmund, and not to have passed into the hand of
a stranger.

Thus his enemy was now removed, and he passed several years without any stirring events and
in utter disuse of arms; but at last he pleaded the long while he had been tilling the earth,
and the immoderate time he had forborne from exploits on the seas; and seeming to think war
a merrier thing than peace, he began to upbraid himself with slothfulness in a strain like this:

"Why loiter I thus in darksome hiding, in the folds of rugged hills, nor follow seafaring as
of old? The continual howling of the band of wolves, and the plaintive cry of harmful beasts
that rises to heaven, and the fierce impatient lions, all rob my eyes of sleep. Dreary are
the ridges and the desolation to hearts that trusted to do wilder work. The stark rocks and
the rugged lie of the ground bar the way to spirits who are wont to love the sea. It were better
service to sound the firths with the oars, to revel in plundered wares, to pursue the gold
of others for my coffer, to gloat over sea-gotten gains, than to dwell in rough lands and winding
woodlands and barren glades."

Then his wife, loving a life in the country, and weary of the marin harmony of the sea-birds,
declared how great joy she found in frequenting the woodlands, in the following strain:

"The shrill bird vexes me as I tarry by the shore, and with its chattering rouses me when I
cannot sleep. Wherefore the noisy sweep of its boisterous rush takes gentle rest from my sleeping
eye, nor doth the loud-chattering sea-mew suffer me to rest in the night, forcing its wearisome
tale into my dainty ears; nor when I would lie down doth it suffer me to be refreshed, clamouring
with doleful modulation of its ill-boding voice. Safer and sweeter do I deem the enjoyment
of the woods. How are the fruits of rest plucked less by day or night than by tarrying tossed
on the shifting sea?"

At this time one Toste emerged, from the obscure spot of Jutland where he was born, into bloody
notoriety. For by all manner of wanton attacks upon the common people he spread wide the fame
of his cruelty, and gained so universal a repute for rancour, that he was branded with the
name of the Wicked. Nor did he even refrain from wrongdoing to foreigners, but, after foully
harrying his own land, went on to assault Saxony. The Saxon general Syfrid, when his men were
hard put to it in the battle, entreated peace. Toste declared that he should have what he asked,
but only if he would promise to become his ally in a war against Hadding. Syfrid demurred,
dreading to fulfill the condition, but by sharp menaces Toste induced him to promise what he
asked. For threats can sometimes gain a request which soft-dealing cannot compass. Hadding
was conquered by this man in an affair by land; but in the midst of his flight he came on his
enemy's fleet, and made it unseaworthy by boring the sides; then he got a skiff and steered
it out to sea. Toste thought he was slain, but though he sought long among the indiscriminate
heaps of dead, could not find him, and came back to his fleet; when he saw from afar off a
light boat tossing on the ocean billows. Putting out some vessels, he resolved to give it chase,
but was brought back by peril of shipwreck, and only just reached the shore. Then he quickly
took some sound craft, and accomplished the journey which he had before begun. Hadding, seeing
he was caught, proceeded to ask his companion whether he was a skilled and practised swimmer;
and when the other said he was not, Hadding despairing of flight, deliberately turned the vessel
over and held on inside to its hollow, thus making his pursuers think him dead. Then he attacked
Toste, who, careless and unaware, was greedily watching over the remnants of his spoil; cut
down his army, forced him to quit his plunder, and avenged his own rout by that of Toste.

But Toste lacked not heart to avenge himself. For, not having store enough in his own land
to recruit his forces--so heavy was the blow he had received--he went to Britain, calling himself
an ambassador. Upon his outward voyage, for sheer wantonness, he got his crew together to play
dice, and when a wrangle arose from the throwing of the cubes, he taught them to wind it up
with a fatal affray. And so, by means of this peaceful sport, he spread the spirit of strife
through the whole ship, and the jest gave place to quarrelling, which engendered bloody combat.
Also, fain to get some gain out of the misfortunes of others, he seized the moneys of the slain,
and attached to him a certain rover then famous, named Koll; and a little after returned in
his company to his own land, where he was challenged and slain by Hadding, who preferred to
hazard his own fortune rather than that of his soldiers. For generals of antique valour were
loth to accomplish by general massacre what could be decided by the lot of a few.

After these deeds the figure of Hadding's dead wife appeared before him in his sleep, and sang
thus:

"A monster is born to thee that shall tame the rage of wild beasts, and crush with fierce mouth
the fleet wolves."

Then she added a little: "Take thou heed; from thee hath issued a bird of harm, in choler a
wild screech-owl, in tongue a tuneful swan."

On the morrow the king, when he had shaken off slumber, told the vision to a man skilled in
interpretations, who explained the wolf to denote a son that would be truculent and the word
swan as signifying a daughter; and foretold that the son would be deadly to enemies and the
daughter treacherous to her father. The result answered to the prophecy. Hadding's daughter,
Ulfhild, who was wife to a certain private person called Guthorm, was moved either by anger
at her match, or with aspirations to glory, and throwing aside all heed of daughterly love,
tempted her husband to slay her father; declaring that she preferred the name of queen to that
of princess. I have resolved to set forth the manner of her exhortation almost in the words
in which she uttered it; they were nearly these:

"Miserable am I, whose nobleness is shadowed by an unequal yoke! Hapless am I, to whose pedigree
is bound the lowliness of a peasant! Luckless issue of a king, to whom a common man is equal
by law of marriage! Pitiable daughter of a prince, whose comeliness her spiritless father hath
made over to base and contemptible embraces! Unhappy child of thy mother, with thy happiness
marred by consorting with this bed! thy purity is handled by the impurity of a peasant, thy
nobility is bowed down by ignoble commonness, thy high birth is impaired by the estate of thy
husband! But thou, if any pith be in thee, if valour reign in thy soul at all, if thou deem
thyself fit husband for a king's daughter, wrest the sceptre from her father, retrieve thy
lineage by thy valour, balance with courage thy lack of ancestry, requite by bravery thy detriment
of blood. Power won by daring is more prosperous than that won by inheritance. Boldness climbs
to the top better than inheritance, and worth wins power better than birth. Moreover, it is
no shame to overthrow old age, which of its own weight sinks and totters to its fall. It shall
be enough for my father to have borne the sceptre for so long; let the dotard's power fall
to thee; if it elude thee, it will pass to another. Whatsoever rests on old age is near its
fall. Think that his reign has been long enough, and be it thine, though late in the day, to
be first. Further, I would rather have my husband than my father king--would rather be ranked
a king's wife than daughter. It is better to embrace a monarch in one's home, than to give
him homage from afar; it is nobler to be a king's bride than his courtier. Thou, too, must
surely prefer thyself to thy wife's father for bearing the sceptre; for nature has made each
one nearest to himself. If there be a will for the deed, a way will open; there is nothing
but yields to the wit of man. The feast must be kept, the banquet decked, the preparations
looked to, and my father bidden. The path to treachery shall be smoothed by a pretence of friendship,
for nothing cloaks a snare better than the name of kindred. Also his soddenness shall open
a short way to his slaughter; for when the king shall be intent upon the dressing of his hair,
and his hand is upon his beard and his mind upon stories; when he has parted his knotted locks,
either with hairpin or disentangling comb, then let him feel the touch of the steel in his
flesh. Busy men commonly devise little precaution. Let thy hand draw near to punish all his
sins. It is a righteous deed to put forth thy hand to avenge the wretched!"

Thus Ulfhild importuned, and her husband was overcome by her promptings, and promised his help
to the treachery. But meantime Hadding was warned in a dream to beware of his son-in-law's
guile. He went to the feast, which his daughter had made ready for him with a show of love,
and posted an armed guard hard by to use against the treachery when need was. As he ate, the
henchman who was employed to do the deed of guile silently awaited a fitting moment for his
crime, his dagger hid under his robe. The king, remarking him, blew on the trumpet a signal
to the soldiers who were stationed near; they straightway brought aid, and he made the guile
recoil on its deviser.

Meanwhile Hunding, King of the Swedes, heard false tidings that Hadding was dead, and resolved
to greet them with obsequies. So he gathered his nobles together, and filled a jar of extraordinary
size with ale, and had this set in the midst of the feasters for their delight, and, to omit
no mark of solemnity, himself assumed a servant's part, not hesitating to play the cupbearer.
And while he was passing through the palace in fulfilment of his office, he stumbled and fell
into the jar, and, being choked by the liquor, gave up the ghost; thus atoning either to Orcus,
whom he was appeasing by a baseless performance of the rites, or to Hadding, about whose death
he had spoken falsely. Hadding, when he heard this, wished to pay like thanks to his worshipper,
and, not enduring to survive his death, hanged himself in sight of the whole people.

BOOK TWO

HADDING was succeeded by FRODE, his son, whose fortunes were many and changeful. When he had
passed the years of a stripling, he displayed the fulness of a warrior's prowess; and being
loth that this should be spoilt by slothfulness, he sequestered his mind from delights and
perseveringly constrained it to arms. Warfare having drained his father's treasury, he lacked
a stock of pay to maintain his troops, and cast about diligently for the supplies that he required;
and while thus employed, a man of the country met him and roused his hopes by the following strain:

"Not far off is an island rising in delicate slopes, hiding treasure in its hills and ware
of its rich booty. Here a noble pile is kept by the occupant of the mount, who is a snake wreathed
in coils, doubled in many a fold, and with tail drawn out in winding whorls, shaking his manifold
spirals and shedding venom. If thou wouldst conquer him, thou must use thy shield and stretch
thereon bulls' hides, and cover thy body with the skins of kine, nor let thy limbs lie bare
to the sharp poison; his slaver burns up what it bespatters. Though the three-forked tongue
flicker and leap out of the gaping mouth, and with awful yawn menace ghastly wounds remember
to keep the dauntless temper of thy mind; nor let the point of the jagged tooth trouble thee,
nor the starkness of the beast, nor the venom spat from the swift throat. Though the force
of his scales spurn thy spears, yet know there is a place under his lowest belly whither thou
mayst plunge the blade; aim at this with thy sword, and thou shalt probe the snake to his centre.
Thence go fearless up to the hill, drive the mattock, dig and ransack the holes; soon fill
thy pouch with treasure, and bring back to the shore thy craft laden."

Frode believed, and crossed alone to the island, loth to attack the beast with any stronger
escort than that wherewith it was the custom for champions to attack. When it had drunk water
and was repairing to its cave, its rough and sharp hide spurned the blow of Frode's steel.
Also the darts that he flung against it rebounded idly, foiling the effort of the thrower.
But when the hard back yielded not a whit, he noted the belly heedfully, and its softness gave
entrance to the steel. The beast tried to retaliate by biting, but only struck the sharp point
of its mouth upon the shield. Then it shot out its flickering tongue again and again, and gasped
away life and venom together.

The money which the King found made him rich; and with this supply he approached in his fleet
the region of the Kurlanders, whose king Dorn, dreading a perilous war, is said to have made
a speech of the following kind to his soldiers:

"Nobles! Our enemy is a foreigner, begirt with the arms and the wealth of almost all the West;
let us, by endeavouring to defer the battle for our profit, make him a prey to famine, which
is all inward malady; and he will find it very hard to conquer a peril among his own people.
It is easy to oppose the starving. Hunger will be a better weapon against our foe than arms;
famine will be the sharpest lance we shall hurl at him. For lack of food nourishes the pestilence
that eats away men's strength, and lack of victual undermines store of weapons. Let this whirl
the spears while we sit still; let this take up the prerogative and the duty of fighting. Unimperilled,
we shall be able to imperil others; we can drain their blood and lose no drop of ours. One
may defeat an enemy by inaction. Who would not rather fight safely than at a loss? Who would
strive to suffer chastisement when he may contend unhurt? Our success in arms will be more
prosperous if hunger joins battle first. Let hunger captain us, and so let us take the first
chance of conflict. Let it decide the day in our stead, and let our camp remain free from the
stir of war; if hunger retreat beaten, we must break off idleness. He who is fresh easily overpowers
him who is shaken with languor. The hand that is flaccid and withered will come fainter to
the battle. He whom any hardship has first wearied, will bring slacker hands to the steel.
When he that is wasted with sickness engages with the sturdy, the victory hastens. Thus, undamaged
ourselves, we shall be able to deal damage to others."

Having said this, he wasted all the places which he saw would be hard to protect, distrusting
his power to guard them, and he so far forestalled the ruthlessness of the foe in ravaging
his own land, that he left nothing untouched which could be seized by those who came after.
Then he shut up the greater part of his forces in a town of undoubted strength, and suffered
the enemy to blockade him. Frode, distrusting his power of attacking this town, commanded several
trenches of unwonted depth to be made within the camp, and the earth to be secretly carried
out in baskets and cast quietly into the river bordering the walls. Then he had a mass of turf
put over the trenches to hide the trap: wishing to cut off the unwary enemy by tumbling them
down headlong, and thinking that they would be overwhelmed unawares by the slip of the subsiding
earth. Then he feigned a panic, and proceeded to forsake the camp for a short while. The townsmen
fell upon it, missed their footing everywhere, rolled forward into the pits, and were massacred
by him under a shower of spears.

Thence he travelled and fell in with Trannon, the monarch of the Ruthenians. Desiring to spy
out the strength of his navy, he made a number of pegs out of sticks, and loaded a skiff with
them; and in this he approached the enemy's fleet by night, and bored the hulls of the vessels
with an auger. And to save them from a sudden influx of the waves, he plugged up the open holes
with the pegs he had before provided, and by these pieces of wood he made good the damage done
by the auger. But when he thought there were enough holes to drown the fleet, he took out the
plugs, thus giving instant access to the waters, and then made haste to surround the enemy's
fleet with his own. The Ruthenians were beset with a double peril, and wavered whether they
should first withstand waves or weapons. Fighting to save their ships from the foe, they were
shipwrecked. Within, the peril was more terrible than without: within, they fell back before
the waves, while drawing the sword on those without. For the unhappy men were assaulted by
two dangers at once; it was doubtful whether the swiftest way of safety was to swim or to battle
to the end; and the fray was broken off at its hottest by a fresh cause of doom. Two forms
of death advanced in a single onset; two paths of destruction offered united peril: it was
hard to say whether the sword or the sea hurt them more. While one man was beating off the
swords, the waters stole up silently and took him. Contrariwise, another was struggling with
the waves, when the steel came up and encompassed him. The flowing waters were befouled with
the gory spray. Thus the Ruthenians were conquered, and Frode made his way back home.

Finding that some envoys, whom he had sent into Russia to levy tribute, had been horribly murdered
through the treachery of the inhabitants, Frode was stung by the double wrong and besieged
closely their town Rotel. Loth that the intervening river should delay his capture of the town,
he divided the entire mass of the waters by making new and different streams, thus changing
what had been a channel of unknown depth into passable fords; not ceasing till the speed of
the eddy, slackened by the division of its outlet, rolled its waves onward in fainter current,
and winding along its slender reaches, slowly thinned and dwindled into a shallow. Thus he
prevailed over the river; and the town, which lacked natural defences, he overthrew, his soldiers
breaking in without resistance. This done, he took his army to the city of Paltisca. Thinking
no force could overcome it, he exchanged war for guile. He went into a dark and unknown hiding-place,
only a very few being in the secret, and ordered a report of his death to be spread abroad,
so as to inspire the enemy with less fear; his obsequies being also held, and a barrow raised,
to give the tale credit. Even the soldiers bewailed his supposed death with a mourning which
was in the secret of the trick. This rumour led Vespasins, the king of the city, to show so
faint and feeble a defence, as though the victory was already his, that the enemy got a chance
of breaking in, and slew him as he sported at his ease.

Frode, when he had taken this town, aspired to the Empire of the East, and attacked the city
of Handwan. This king, warned by Hadding's having once fired his town, accordingly cleared
the tame birds out of all his houses, to save himself from the peril of like punishment. But
Frode was not at a loss for new trickery. He exchanged garments with a serving-maid, and feigned
himself to be a maiden skilled in fighting; and having thus laid aside the garb of man and
imitated that of woman, he went to the town, calling himself a deserter. Here he reconnoitred
everything narrowly, and on the next day sent out an attendant with orders that the army should
be up at the walls, promising that he would see to it that the gates were opened. Thus the
sentries were eluded and the city despoiled while it was buried in sleep; so that it paid for
its heedlessness with destruction, and was more pitiable for its own sloth than by reason of
the valour of the foe. For in warfare nought is found to be more ruinous than that a man, made
foolhardy by ease, should neglect and slacken his affairs and doze in arrogant self-confidence.

Handwan, seeing that the fortunes of his country were lost and overthrown, put all his royal
wealth on shipboard and drowned it in the sea, so as to enrich the waves rather than his enemy.
Yet it had been better to forestall the goodwill of his adversaries with gifts of money than
to begrudge the profit of it to the service of mankind. After this, when Frode sent ambassadors
to ask for the hand of his daughter, he answered, that he must take heed not to be spoiled
by his thriving fortunes, or to turn his triumph into haughtiness; but let him rather bethink
him to spare the conquered, and in this their abject estate to respect their former bright
condition; let him learn to honour their past fortune in their present pitiable lot. Therefore,
said Handwan, he must mind that he did not rob of his empire the man with whom he sought alliance,
nor bespatter her with the filth of ignobleness whom he desired to honour with marriage: else
he would tarnish the honour of the union with covetousness. The courtliness of this saying
not only won him his conqueror for son-in-law, but saved the freedom of his realm.

Meantime Thorhild, wife of Hunding, King of the Swedes, possessed with a boundless hatred for
her stepsons Ragnar and Thorwald, and fain to entangle them in divers perils, at last made
them the king's shepherds. But Swanhwid, daughter of Hadding, wished to arrest by woman's wit
the ruin of natures so noble; and taking her sisters to serve as retinue, journeyed to Sweden.
Seeing the said youths beset with sundry prodigies while busy watching at night over their
flocks, she forbade her sisters, who desired to dismount, in a poem of the following strain:

"Monsters I behold taking swift leaps and flinging themselves over the night places. The demon
is at war, and the unholy throng, devoted to the mischievous fray, battles in the mid-thoroughfare.
Prodigies of aspect grim to behold pass by, and suffer no mortal to enter this country. The
ranks galloping in headlong career through the void bid us stay our advance in this spot; they
warn us to turn our rein and hold off from the accursed fields, they forbid us to approach
the country beyond. A scowling horde of ghosts draws near, and scurries furiously through the
wind, bellowing drearily to the stars. Fauns join Satyrs, and the throng of Pans mingles with
the Spectres and battles with fierce visage. The Swart ones meet the Woodland Spirits, and
the pestilent phantoms strive to share the path with the Witches. Furies poise themselves on
the leap, and on them huddle the Phantoms, whom Foreboder (Fantua) joined to the Flatnoses
(Satyrs), jostles. The path that the footfarer must tread brims with horror. It were safer
to burden the back of the tall horse."

Thereon Ragnar declared that he was a slave of the king, and gave as reason of his departure
so far from home that, when he had been banished to the country on his shepherd's business,
he had lost the flock of which he had charge, and despairing to recover it, had chosen rather
to forbear from returning than to incur punishment. Also, loth to say nothing about the estate
of his brother, he further spoke the following poem:

"Think us men, not monsters; we are slaves who drove our lingering flocks for pasture through
the country. But while we took our pastime in gentle sports, our flock chanced to stray and
went into far-off fields. And when our hope of finding them, our long quest failed, trouble
came upon the mind of the wretched culprits. And when sure tracks of our kine were nowhere
to be seen, dismal panic filled our guilty hearts. That is why, dreading the penal stripe of
the rod, we thought it doleful to return to our own roof. We supposed it safer to hold aloof
from the familiar hearth than to bear the hand of punishment. Thus we are fain to put off the
punishment; we loathe going back and our wish is to lie hid here and escape our master's eye.
This will aid us to elude the avenger of his neglected flock; and this is the one way of escape
that remains safe for us."

Then Swanhwid gazed intently, and surveying his features, which were very comely, admired them
ardently, and said:

"The radiant flashing of thine eyes is eloquent that thou art of kingly and not of servile
stock. Beauty announces blood, and loveliness of soul glitters in the flash of the eyes. A
keen glance betokens lordly birth, and it is plain that he whom fairness, that sure sign of
nobleness, commends, is of no mean station. The outward alertness of thine eyes signifies a
spirit of radiance within. Face vouches for race; and the lustre of forefathers is beheld in
the brightness of the countenance. For an aspect so benign and noble could never have issued
from base parentage. The grace of thy blood makes thy brow mantle with a kindred grace, and
the estate of thy birth is reflected in the mirror of thy countenance. It is no obscure craftsman,
therefore, that has finished the portrait of so choice a chasing. Now therefore turn aside
with all speed, seek constantly to depart out of the road, shun encounters with monsters, lest
ye yield your most gracious bodies to be the prey and pasture of the vilest hordes."

But Ragnar was seized with great shame for his unsightly attire, which he thought was the only
possible device to disguise his birth. So he rejoined, "That slaves were not always found to
lack manhood; that a strong hand was often hidden under squalid raiment, and sometimes a stout
arm was muffled trader a dusky cloak; thus the fault of nature was retrieved by valour, and
deficiency in race requited by nobleness of spirit. He therefore feared the might of no supernatural
prowess, save of the god Thor only, to the greatness of whose force nothing human or divine
could fitly be compared. The hearts of men ought not to be terrified at phantoms, which were
only awful from their ghastly foulness, and whose semblances, marked by counterfeit ghostliness,
were wont for a moment to borrow materiality from the fluent air. Swanhwid therefore erred
in trying, womanlike, to sap the firm strength of men, and to melt in unmanly panic that might
which knew not defeat."

Swanhwid marvelled at the young man's steadfastness, and cast off the cloud of mist which overshadowed
her, dispelling the darkness which shrouded her face, till it was clear and cloudless. Then,
promising that she would give him a sword fitted for diver's kinds of battle, she revealed
the marvellous maiden beauty of her lustrous limbs. Thus was the youth kindled, and she plighted
her troth with him, and proffering the sword, she thus began:

"King, in this sword, which shall expose the monsters to thy blows, take the first gift of
thy betrothed. Show thyself duly deserving hereof; let hand rival sword, and aspire to add
lustre to its weapon. Let the might of steel strengthen the defenceless point of thy wit, and
let spirit know how to work with hand. Let the bearer match the burden: and that thy deed may
sort with thy blade, let equal weight in each be thine. What avails the javelin when the breast
is weak and faint, and the quivering hands have dropped the lance? Let steel join soul, and
be both the body's armour! Let the right hand be linked with its hilt in alliance. These fight
famous battles, because they always keep more force when together; but less when parted. Therefore
if it be joy to thee to win fame by the palm of war, pursue with daring whatsoever is hard
pressed by thy hand."

After thus discoursing long in harmoniously-adjusted strains, she sent away her retinue, and
passed all the night in combat against the foulest throngs of monsters; and at return of daybreak
she perceived fallen all over the fields diverse shapes of phantoms, and figures extraordinary
to look on; and among them was seen the semblance of Thorhild herself covered with wounds.
All these she piled in a heap and burnt, kindling a huge pyre, lest the foul stench of the
filthy carcases might spread in pestilent vapour and hurt those who came nigh with its taint
of corruption. This done, she won the throne of Sweden for Ragnar, and Ragnar for her husband.
And though he deemed it uncomely to inaugurate his first campaign with a wedding, yet, moved
by gratitude for the preservation of his safety, he kept his promise.

Meantime one Ubbe, who had long since wedded Ulfhild the sister of Frode, trusting in the high
birth of his wife, seized the kingdom of Denmark, which he was managing carelessly as deputy.
Frode was thus forced to quit the wars of the East and fought a great battle in Sweden with
his sister Swanhwid, in which he was beaten. So he got on board a skiff, and sailed stealthily
in a circuit, seeking some way of boring through the enemy's fleet. When surprised by his sister
and asked why he was rowing silently and following divers meandering courses, he cut short
her inquiry by a similar question; for Swanhwid had also, at the same time of the night, taken
to sailing about alone, and was stealthily searching out all the ways of approach and retreat
through devious and dangerous windings. So she reminded her brother of the freedom he had given
her long since, and went on to ask him that he should allow her full enjoyment of the husband
she had taken; since, before he started on the Russian war, he had given her the boon of marrying
as she would; and that he should hold valid after the event what he had himself allowed to
happen. These reasonable entreaties touched Frode, and he made a peace with Ragnar, and forgave,
at his sister's request, the wrongdoing which Ragnar, seemed to have begun because of her wantonness.
They presented him with a force equal to that which they had caused him to lose: a handsome
gift in which he rejoiced as compensation for so ugly a reverse.

Ragnar, entering Denmark, captured Ubbe, had him brought before him, and pardoned him, preferring
to visit his ill deserts with grace rather than chastisement; because the man seemed to have
aimed at the crown rather at his wife's instance than of his own ambition, and to have been
the imitator and not the cause of the wrong. But he took Ulfhild away from him and forced her
to wed his friend Scot, the same man that founded the Scottish name; esteeming change of wedlock
a punishment for her. As she went away he even escorted her in the royal chariot, requiting
evil with good; for he regarded the kinship of his sister rather than her disposition, and
took more thought for his own good name than of her iniquity. But the fair deeds of her brother
did not make her obstinate and wonted hatred slacken a whit; she wore the spirit of her new
husband with her design of slaying Frode and mastering the sovereignty of the Danes. For whatsoever
design the mind has resolutely conceived, it is slow to quit; nor is a sin that is long schemed
swept away by the stream of years. For the temper of later life follows the mind of childhood;
nor do the traces easily fade of vices which have been stamped upon the character in the impressible
age. Finding the ears of her husband deaf, she diverted her treachery from her brother against
her lord, hiring bravoes to cut his throat while he slept. Scot was told about this by a waiting-woman,
and retired to bed in his cuirass on the night on which he had heard the deed of murder was
to be wrought upon him. Ulfhild asked him why he had exchanged his wonted ways to wear the
garb of steel; he rejoined that such was just then his fancy. The agents of the treachery,
when they imagined him in a deep sleep, burst in; but he slipped from his bed and cut them
down. The result was, that he prevented Ulfhild from weaving plots against her brother, and
also left a warning to others to beware of treachery from their wives.

Meantime the design occurred to Frode of a campaign against Friesland; he was desirous to dazzle
the eyes of the West with the glory he had won in conquering the East. He put out to ocean,
and his first contest was with Witthe, a rover of the Frisians; and in this battle he bade
his crews patiently bear the first brunt of the enemy's charge by merely opposing their shields,
ordering that they should not use their missiles before they perceived that the shower of the
enemy's spears was utterly silent. This the Frisians hurled as vehemently as the Danes received
it impassively; for Witthe supposed that the long-suffering of Frode was due to a wish for
peace. High rose the blast of the trumpet, and loud whizzed the javelins everywhere, till at
last the heedless Frisians had not a single lance remaining, and they were conquered, overwhelmed
by the missiles of the Danes. They fled hugging the shore, and were cut to pieces amid the
circuitous windings of the canals. Then Frode explored the Rhine in his fleet, and laid hands
on the farthest parts of Germany. Then he went back to the ocean, and attacked the Frisian
fleet, which had struck on shoals; and thus he crowned shipwreck with slaughter. Nor was he
content with the destruction of so great an army of his foes, but assailed Britain, defeated
its king, and attacked Melbrik, the Governor of the Scottish district. Just as he was preparing
to fight him, he heard from a scout that the King of the Britons was at hand, and could not
look to his front and his rear both at once. So he assembled the soldiers, and ordered that
they should abandon their chariots, fling away all their goods, and scatter everywhere over
the fields the gold which they had about them; for he declared that their one chance was to
squander their treasure; and that, now they were hemmed in, their only remaining help was to
tempt the enemy from combat to covetousness. They ought cheerfully to spend on so extreme a
need the spoil they had gotten among foreigners; for the enemy would drop it as eagerly, when
it was once gathered, as they would snatch it when they first found it; for it would be to
them more burden than profit.

Then Thorkill, who was a more notable miser and a better orator than them all, dishelming and
leaning on his shield, said:

"O King! Most of us who rate high what we have bought with our life-blood find thy bidding
hard. We take it ill that we should fling away what we have won with utmost hazard; and men
are loth to forsake what they have purchased at peril of their lives. For it is utter madness
to spurn away like women what our manly hearts and hands have earned, and enrich the enemy
beyond their hopes. What is more odious than to anticipate the fortune of war by despising
the booty which is ours, and, in terror of an evil that may never come, to quit a good which
is present and assured? Shall we scatter our gold upon the earth, ere we have set eyes upon
the Scots? Those who faint at the thought of warring when they are out for war, what manner
of men are they to be thought in the battle? Shall we be a derision to our foes, we who were
their terror? Shall we take scorn instead of glory? The Briton will marvel that he was conquered
by men whom he sees fear is enough to conquer. We struck them before with panic; shall we be
panic-stricken by them? We scorned them when before us; shall we dread them when they are not
here? When will our bravery win the treasure which our cowardice rejects? Shall we shirk the
fight, in scorn of the money which we fought to win, and enrich those whom we should rightly
have impoverished? What deed more despicable can we do than to squander gold on those whom
we should smite with steel? Panic must never rob us of the spoils of valour; and only war must
make us quit what in warfare we have won. Let us sell our plunder at the price at which we
bought it; let the purchase-money be weighed out in steel. It is better to die a noble death,
than to molder away too much in love with the light life. In a fleeting instant of time life
forsakes us, but shame pursues us past the grave. Further, if we cast away this gold, the greater
the enemy thinks our fear, the hotter will be his chase. Besides, whichever the issue of the
day, the gold is not hateful to us. Conquerors, we shall triumph in the treasure which now
we bear; conquered, we shall leave it to pay our burying."

So spoke the old man; but the soldiers regarded the advice of their king rather than of their
comrade, and thought more of the former than of the latter counsel. So each of them eagerly
drew his wealth, whatever he had, from his pouch; they unloaded their ponies of the various
goods they were carrying; and having thus cleared their money-bags, girded on their arms more
deftly. They went on, and the Britons came up, but broke away after the plunder which lay spread
out before them. Their king, when he beheld them too greedily busied with scrambling for the
treasure, bade them "take heed not to weary with a load of riches those hands which were meant
for battle, since they ought to know that a victory must be culled ere it is counted. Therefore
let them scorn the gold and give chase to the possessors of the gold; let them admire the lustre,
not of lucre, but of conquest; remembering, that a trophy gave more reward than gain. Courage
was worth more than dross, if they measured aright the quality of both; for the one furnished
outward adorning, but the other enhanced both outward and inward grace. Therefore they must
keep their eyes far from the sight of money, and their soul from covetousness, and devote it
to the pursuits of war. Further, they should know that the plunder had been abandoned by the
enemy of set purpose, and that the gold had been scattered rather to betray them than to profit
them. Moreover, the honest lustre of the silver was only a bait on the barb of secret guile.
It was not thought to be that they, who had first forced the Britons to fly, would lightly
fly themselves. Besides, nothing was more shameful than riches which betrayed into captivity
the plunderer whom they were supposed to enrich. For the Danes thought that the men to whom
they pretended to have offered riches ought to be punished with sword and slaughter. Let them
therefore feel that they were only giving the enemy a weapon if they seized what he had scattered.
For if they were caught by the look of the treasure that had been exposed, they must lose,
not only that, but any of their own money that might remain. What could it profit them to gather
what they must straightway disgorge? But if they refuse to abase themselves before money, they
would doubtless abase the foe. Thus it was better for them to stand erect in valour than be
grovelling in greed; with their souls not sinking into covetousness, but up and doing for renown.
In the battle they would have to use not gold but swords."

As the king ended, a British knight, shewing them all his lapful of gold, said:

"O King! From thy speech can be gathered two feelings; and one of them witnesses to thy cowardice
and the other to thy ill will: inasmuch as thou forbiddest us the use of the wealth because
of the enemy, and also thinkest it better that we should serve thee needy than rich. What is
more odious than such a wish? What more senseless than such a counsel? We recognise these as
the treasures of our own homes, and having done so, shall we falter to pick them up? We were
on our way to regain them by fighting, we were zealous to win them back by our blood: shall
we shun them when they are restored unasked? Shall we hesitate to claim our own? Which is the
greater coward, he who squanders his winnings, or he who is fearful to pick up what is squandered?
Look how chance has restored what compulsion took! These are, not spoils from the enemy, but
from ourselves; the Dane took gold from Britain, he brought none. Beaten and loth we lost it;
it comes back for nothing, and shall we run away from it? Such a gift of fortune it were a
shame to take in an unworthy spirit. For what were madder than to spurn wealth that is set
openly before us, and to desire it when it is shut up and kept from us? Shall we squeamishly
yield what is set under our eyes, and clutch at it when it vanishes? Shall we seek distant
and foreign treasure, refraining from what is made public property? If we disown what is ours,
when shall we despoil the goods of others? No anger of heaven can I experience which can force
me to unload of its lawful burden the lap which is filled with my father's and my grandsire's
gold. I know the wantonness of the Danes: never would they have left jars full of wine had
not fear forced them to flee. They would rather have sacrificed their life than their liquor.
This passion we share with them, and herein we are like them. Grant that their flight is feigned;
yet they will light upon the Scots ere they can come back. This gold shall never rust in the
country, to be trodden underfoot of swine or brutes: it will better serve the use of men. Besides,
if we plunder the spoil of the army that prevailed over us, we transfer the luck of the conqueror
to ourselves. For what surer omen of triumph could be got, than to bear off the booty before
the battle, and to capture ere the fray the camp which the enemy have forsaken? Better conquer
by fear than by steel."

The knight had scarce ended, when behold; the hands of all were loosed upon the booty and everywhere
plucked up the shining treasure. There you might have marvelled at their disposition of filthy
greed, and watched a portentous spectacle of avarice. You could have seen gold and grass clutched
up together; the birth of domestic discord; fellow-countrymen in deadly combat, heedless of
the foe; neglect of the bonds of comradeship and of reverence for ties; greed the object of
all minds, and friendship of none.

Meantime Frode traversed in a great march the forest which separates Scotland and Britain,
and bade his soldiers arm. When the Scots beheld his line, and saw that they had only a supply
of light javelins, while the Danes were furnished with a more excellent style of armour, they
forestalled the battle by flight. Frode pursued them but a little way, fearing a sally of the
British, and on returning met Scot, the husband of Ulfhild, with a great army; he had been
brought from the utmost ends of Scotland by the desire of aiding the Danes. Scot entreated
him to abandon the pursuit of the Scottish and turn back into Britain. So he eagerly regained
the plunder which he had cunningly sacrificed; and got back his wealth with the greater ease,
that he had so tranquilly let it go. Then did the British repent of their burden and pay for
their covetousness with their blood. They were sorry to have clutched at greed with insatiate
arms, and ashamed to have hearkened to their own avarice rather than to the counsel of their king.

Then Frode attacked London, the most populous city of Britain; but the strength of its walls
gave him no chance of capturing it. Therefore he reigned to be dead, and his guile strengthened
him. For Daleman, the governor of London, on hearing the false news of his death, accepted
the surrender of the Danes, offered them a native general, and suffered them to enter the town,
that they might choose him out of a great throng. They feigned to be making a careful choice,
but beset Daleman in a night surprise and slew him.

When he had done these things, and gone back to his own land, one Skat entertained him at a
banquet, desirous to mingle his toilsome warfare with joyous licence. Frode was lying in his
house, in royal fashion, upon cushions of cloth of gold, and a certain Hunding challenged him
to fight. Then, though he had bent his mind to the joys of wassail, he had more delight in
the prospect of a fray than in the presence of a feast, and wound up the supper with a duel
and the duel with a triumph. In the combat he received a dangerous wound; but a taunt of Hakon
the champion again roused him, and, slaying his challenger, he took vengeance for the disturbance
of his rest. Two of his chamber-servants were openly convicted of treachery, and he had them
tied to vast stones and drowned in the sea; thus chastising the weighty guilt of their souls
by fastening boulders to their bodies. Some relate that Ulfhild gave him a coat which no steel
could pierce, so that when he wore it no missile's point could hurt him. Nor must I omit how
Frode was wont to sprinkle his food with brayed and pounded atoms of gold, as a resource against
the usual snares of poisoners. While he was attacking Ragnar, the King of Sweden, who had been
falsely accused of treachery, he perished, not by the spears, but stifled in the weight of
his arms and by the heat of his own body.

Frode left three sons, Halfdan, Ro, and Skat, who were equal in valour, and were seized with
an equal desire for the throne. All thought of sway, none was constrained by brotherly regard:
for love of others forsaketh him who is eaten up with love of self, nor can any man take thought
at once for his own advancement and for his friendship with others. Halfdan, the eldest son,
disgraced his birth with the sin of slaying his brethren, winning his kingdom by the murder
of his kin; and, to complete his display of cruelty, arrested their adherents, first confining
them in bonds, and presently hanging them. The most notable thing in the fortunes of Halfdan
was this, that though he devoted every instant of his life to the practice of cruel deeds,
yet he died of old age, and not by the steel.

Halfdan's sons were Ro and Helge. Ro is said to have been the founder of Roskild, which was
later increased in population and enhanced in power by Sweyn, who was famous for the surname
Forkbeard. Ro was short and spare, while Helge was rather tall of stature. Dividing the realm
with his brother, Helge was allotted the domain of the sea; and attacking Skalk, the King of
Sklavia, with his naval force, he slew him. Having reduced Sklavia into a province, he scoured
the various arms of the sea in a wandering voyage. Savage of temper as Helge was, his cruelty
was not greater than his lust. For he was so immoderately prone to love, that it was doubtful
whether the heat of his tyranny or of his concupiscence was the greater. In Thorey he ravished
the maiden Thora, who bore a daughter, to whom she afterwards gave the name of Urse. Then he
conquered in battle, before the town of Stad, the son of Syrik, King of Saxony, Hunding, whom
he challenged, attacked, and slew in duel. For this he was called Hunding's-Bane, and by that
name gained glory of his victory. He took Jutland out of the power of the Saxons, and entrusted
its management to his generals, Heske, Eyr, and Ler. In Saxony he enacted that the slaughter
of a freedman and of a noble should be visited with the same punishment; as though he wished
it to be clearly known that all the households of the Teutons were held in equal slavery, and
that the freedom of all was tainted and savoured equally of dishonour.

Then Helge went freebooting to Thorey. But Thora had not ceased to bewail her lost virginity,
and planned a shameful device in abominable vengeance for her rape. For she deliberately sent
down to the beach her daughter, who was of marriageable age, and prompted her father to deflower
her. And though she yielded her body to the treacherous lures of delight, yet she must not
be thought to have abjured her integrity of soul, inasmuch as her fault had a ready excuse
by virtue of her ignorance. Insensate mother, who allowed the forfeiture of her child's chastity
in order to avenge her own; caring nought for the purity of her own blood, so she might stain
with incest the man who had cost her her own maidenhood at first! Infamous-hearted woman, who,
to punish her defiler, measured out as it were a second defilement to herself, whereas she
clearly by the selfsame act rather swelled than lessened the transgression! Surely, by the
very act wherewith she thought to reach her revenge, she accumulated guilt; she added a sin
in trying to remove a crime: she played the stepdame to her own offspring, not sparing her
daughter abomination in order to atone for her own disgrace. Doubtless her soul was brimming
over with shamelessness, since she swerved so far from shamefastness, as without a blush to
seek solace for her wrong in her daughter's infamy. A great crime, with but one atonement;
namely, that the guilt of this intercourse was wiped away by a fortunate progeny, its fruits
being as delightful as its repute was evil.

ROLF, the son of Urse, retrieved the shame of his birth by signal deeds of valour; and their
exceeding lustre is honoured with bright laudation by the memory of all succeeding time. For
lamentation sometimes ends in laughter, and foul beginnings pass to fair issues. So that the
father's fault, though criminal, was fortunate, being afterwards atoned for by a son of such
marvellous splendour.

Meantime Ragnar died in Sweden; and Swanhwid his wife passed away soon after of a malady which
she had taken from her sorrow, following in death the husband from whom she had not endured
severance in life. For it often happens that some people desire to follow out of life those
whom they loved exceedingly when alive. Their son Hothbrodd succeeded them. Fain to extend
his empire, he warred upon the East, and after a huge massacre of many peoples begat two sons,
Athisl and Hother, and appointed as their tutor a certain Gewar, who was bound to him by great
services. Not content with conquering the East, he assailed Denmark, challenged its king, Ro,
in three battles, and slew him. Helge, when he heard this, shut up his son Rolf in Leire, wishing,
however he might have managed his own fortunes, to see to the safety of his heir. When Hothbrodd
sent in governors, wanting to free his country from alien rule, he posted his people about
the city and prevailed and slew them. Also he annihilated Hothbrodd himself and all his forces
in a naval battle; so avenging fully the wrongs of his country as well as of his brother. Hence
he who had before won a nickname for slaying Hunding, now bore a surname for the slaughter
of Hothbrodd. Besides, as if the Swedes had not been enough stricken in the battles, he punished
them by stipulating for most humiliating terms; providing by law that no wrong done to any
of them should receive amends according to the form of legal covenants. After these deeds,
ashamed of his former infamy, he hated his country and his home, went back to the East, and
there died. Some think that he was affected by the disgrace which was cast in his teeth, and
did himself to death by falling upon his drawn sword.

He was succeeded by his son Rolf, who was comely with every gift of mind and body, and graced
his mighty stature with as high a courage. In his time Sweden was subject to the sway of the
Danes; wherefore Athisl, the son of Hothbrodd, in pursuit of a crafty design to set his country
free, contrived to marry Rolf's mother, Urse, thinking that his kinship by marriage would plead
for him, and enable him to prompt his stepson more effectually to relax the tribute; and fortune
prospered his wishes. But Athisl had from his boyhood been imbued with a hatred of liberality,
and was so grasping of money, that he accounted it a disgrace to be called openhanded. Urse,
seeing him so steeped in filthy covetousness, desired to be rid of him; but, thinking that
she must act by cunning, veiled the shape of her guile with a marvellous skill. Feigning to
be unmotherly, she spurred on her husband to grasp his freedom, and urged and tempted him to
insurrection; causing her son to be summoned to Sweden with a promise of vast gifts. For she
thought that she would best gain her desire if, as soon as her son had got his stepfather's
gold, she could snatch up the royal treasures and flee, robbing her husband of bed and money
to hoot. For she fancied that the best way to chastise his covetousness would be to steal away
his wealth. This deep guilefulness was hard to detect, from such recesses of cunning did it
spring; because she dissembled her longing for a change of wedlock under a show of aspiration
for freedom. Blind-witted husband, fancying the mother kindled against the life of the son,
never seeing that it was rather his own ruin being compassed! Doltish lord, blind to the obstinate
scheming of his wife, who, out of pretended hatred of her son, devised opportunity for change
of wedlock! Though the heart of woman should never be trusted, he believed in a woman all the
more insensately, because he supposed her faithful to himself and treacherous to her son.

Accordingly, Rolf, tempted by the greatness of the gifts, chanced to enter the house of Athisl.
He was not recognised by his mother owing to his long absence and the cessation of their common
life; so in jest he first asked for some victual to appease his hunger. She advised him to
ask the king for a luncheon. Then he thrust out a torn piece of his coat, and begged of her
the service of sewing it up. Finding his mother's ears shut to him, he observed, "That it was
hard to discover a friendship that was firm and true, when a mother refused her son a meal,
and a sister refused a brother the help of her needle." Thus he punished his mother's error,
and made her blush deep for her refusal of kindness. Athisl, when he saw him reclining close
to his mother at the banquet, taunted them both with wantonness, declaring that it was an impure
intercourse of brother and sister. Rolf repelled the charge against his honour by an appeal
to the closest of natural bonds, and answered, that it was honourable for a son to embrace
a beloved mother. Also, when the feasters asked him what kind of courage he set above all others,
he named Endurance. When they also asked Athisl, what was the virtue which above all he desired
most devotedly, he declared, Generosity. Proofs were therefore demanded of bravery on the one
hand and munificence on the other, and Rolf was asked to give an evidence of courage first.
He was placed to the fire, and defending with his target the side that was most hotly assailed,
had only the firmness of his endurance to fortify the other, which had no defence. How dexterous,
to borrow from his shield protection to assuage the heat, and to guard his body, which was
exposed to the flames, with that which sometime sheltered it amid the hurtling spears! But
the glow was hotter than the fire of spears; as though it could not storm the side that was
entrenched by the shield, yet it assaulted the flank that lacked its protection. But a waiting-maid
who happened to be standing near the hearth, saw that he was being roasted by the unbearable
heat upon his ribs; so taking the stopper out of a cask, she spilt the liquid and quenched
the flame, and by the timely kindness of the shower checked in its career the torturing blaze.
Rolf was lauded for supreme endurance, and then came the request for Athisl's gifts. And they
say that he showered treasures on his stepson, and at last, in order to crown the gift, bestowed
on him an enormously heavy necklace.

Now Urse, who had watched her chance for the deed of guile, on the third day of the banquet,
without her husband ever dreaming of such a thing, put all the king's wealth into carriages,
and going out stealthily, stole away from her own dwelling and fled in the glimmering twilight,
departing with her son. Thrilled with fear of her husband's pursuit, and utterly despairing
of escape beyond, she begged and bade her companions to cast away the money, declaring that
they must lose either life or riches; the short and only path to safety lay in flinging away
the treasure, nor could any aid to escape be found save in the loss of their possessions. Therefore,
said she, they must follow the example of the manner in which Frode was said to have saved
himself among the Britons. She added, that it was not paying a great price to lay down the
Swedes' own goods for them to regain; if only they could themselves gain a start in flight,
by the very device which would check the others in their pursuit, and if they seemed not so
much to abandon their own possessions as to restore those of other men. Not a moment was lost;
in order to make the flight swifter, they did the bidding of the queen. The gold is cleared
from their purses; the riches are left for the enemy to seize. Some declare that Urse kept
back the money, and strewed the tracks of her flight with copper that was gilt over. For it
was thought credible that a woman who could scheme such great deeds could also have painted
with lying lustre the metal that was meant to be lost, mimicking riches of true worth with
the sheen of spurious gold. So Athisl, when he saw the necklace that he had given to Rolf left
among the other golden ornaments, gazed fixedly upon the dearest treasure of his avarice, and,
in order to pick up the plunder, glued his knees to the earth and deigned to stoop his royalty
unto greed. Rolf, seeing him lie abjectly on his face in order to gather up the money, smiled
at the sight of a man prostrated by his own gifts, just as if he were seeking covetously to
regain what he had craftily yielded up. The Swedes were content with their booty, and Rolf
quickly retired to his ships, and managed to escape by rowing violently.

Now they relate that Rolf used with ready generosity to grant at the first entreaty whatsoever
he was begged to bestow, and never put off the request till the second time of asking. For
he preferred to forestall repeated supplication by speedy liberality, rather than mar his kindness
by delay. This habit brought him a great concourse of champions; valour having commonly either
rewards for its food or glory for its spur.

At this time, a certain Agnar, son of Ingild, being about to wed Rute, the sister of Rolf,
celebrated his bridal with a great banquet. The champions were rioting at this banquet with
every sort of wantonness, and flinging from all over the room knobbed bones at a certain Hjalte;
but it chanced that his messmate, named Bjarke, received a violent blow on the head through
the ill aim of the thrower; at whom, stung both by the pain and the jeering, he sent the bone
back, so that he twisted the front of his head to the back, and wrung the back of it to where
the front had been; punishing the wryness of the man's temper by turning his face sidelong.
This deed moderated their wanton and injurious jests, and drove the champions to quit the place.
The bridegroom, nettled at this affront to the banquet, resolved to fight Bjarke, in order
to seek vengeance by means of a duel for the interruption of their mirth. At the outset of
the duel there was a long dispute, which of them ought to have the chance of striking first.
For of old, in the ordering of combats, men did not try to exchange their blows thick and fast;
but there was a pause, and at the same time a definite succession in striking: the contest
being carried on with few strokes, but those terrible, so that honour was paid more to the
mightiness than to the number of the blows. Agnar, being of higher rank, was put first; and
the blow which he dealt is said to have been so furious, that he cut through the front of the
helmet, wounded the skin on the scalp, and had to let go his sword, which became locked in
the vizor-holes. Then Bjarke, who was to deal the return-stroke, leaned his foot against a
stock, in order to give the freer poise to his steel, and passed his fine-edged blade through
the midst of Agnar's body. Some declare that Agnar, in supreme suppression of his pain, gave
up the ghost with his lips relaxed into a smile. The champions passionately sought to avenge
him, but were visited by Bjarke with like destruction; for he used a sword of wonderful sharpness
and unusual length which he called Lovi. By these valorous achievements he became intimate
with the most illustrious nobles, and even, became a favourite of the king; took to wife his
sister Rute, and had the bride of the conquered as the prize of the conquest. When Rolf was
harried by Athisl he avenged himself on him in battle and overthrew Athisl in war. Then Rolf
gave his sister Skulde in marriage to a youth of keen wit, called Hiartuar, and made him governor
of Sweden, ordaining a yearly tax; wishing to soften the loss of freedom to him by the favour
of an alliance with himself.

Here let me put into my work a thing that it is mirthful to record. A youth named Wigg, scanning
with attentive eye the bodily size of Rolf, and smitten with great wonder thereat, proceeded
to inquire in jest who was that "Krage" whom Nature in her beauty had endowed with such towering
stature? Meaning humorously to banter his uncommon tallness. For "Krage" in the Danish tongue
means a tree-trunk, whose branches are pollarded, and whose summit is climbed in such wise
that the foot uses the lopped timbers as supports, as if leaning on a ladder, and, gradually
advancing to the higher parts, finds the shortest way to the top. Rolf accepted this random
word as though it were a name of honour for him, and rewarded the wit of the saying with a
heavy bracelet. Then Wigg, thrusting out his right arm decked with the bracelet, put his left
behind his back in affected shame, and walked with a ludicrous gait, declaring that he, whose
lot had so long been poverty-stricken, was glad of a scanty gift. When he was asked why he
was behaving so, he said that the arm which lacked ornament and had no splendour to boast of
was mantling with the modest blush of poverty to behold the other. The ingenuity of this saying
won him a present to match the first. For Rolf made him bring out to view, like the other,
the hand which he was hiding. Nor was Wigg heedless to repay the kindness; for he promised,
uttering a strict vow, that, if it befell Rolf to perish by the sword, he would himself take
vengeance on his slayers. Nor should it be omitted that in old time nobles who were entering.
The court used to devote to their rulers the first-fruits of their service by vowing some mighty
exploit; thus bravely inaugurating their first campaign.

Meantime, Skulde was stung with humiliation at the payment of the tribute, and bent her mind
to devise deeds of horror. Taunting her husband with his ignominious estate, she urged and
egged him to break off his servitude, induced him to weave plots against Rolf, and filled his
mind with the most abominable plans of disloyalty, declaring that everyone owed more to their
freedom than to kinship. Accordingly, she ordered huge piles of arms to be muffled up under
divers coverings, to be carried by Hiartuar into Denmark, as if they were tribute: these would
furnish a store wherewith to slay the king by night. So the vessels were loaded with the mass
of pretended tribute, and they proceeded to Leire, a town which Rolf had built and adorned
with the richest treasure of his realm, and which, being a royal foundation and a royal seat,
surpassed in importance all the cities of the neighbouring districts. The king welcomed the
coming of Hiartuar with a splendid banquet, and drank very deep, while his guests, contrary
to their custom, shunned immoderate tippling. So, while all the others were sleeping soundly,
the Swedes, who had been kept from their ordinary rest by their eagerness on their guilty purpose,
began furtively to slip down from their sleeping-rooms. Straightway uncovering the hidden heap
of weapons, each girded on his arms silently and then went to the palace. Bursting into its
recesses, they drew their swords upon the sleeping figures. Many awoke; but, invaded as much
by the sudden and dreadful carnage as by the drowsiness of sleep, they faltered in their resistance;
for the night misled them and made it doubtful whether those they met were friends or foes.
Hjalte, who was foremost in tried bravery among the nobles of the king, chanced to have gone
out in the dead of that same night into the country and given himself to the embraces of a
harlot. But when his torpid hearing caught from afar the rising din of battle, preferring valour
to wantonness, he chose rather to seek the deadly perils of the War-god than to yield to the
soft allurements of Love. What a love for his king, must we suppose, burned in this warrior!
For he might have excused his absence by feigning not to have known; but he thought it better
to expose his life to manifest danger than save it for pleasure. As he went away, his mistress
asked him how aged a man she ought to marry if she were to lose him? Then Hjalte bade her come
closer, as though he would speak to her more privately; and, resenting that she needed a successor
to his love, he cut off her nose and made her unsightly, punishing the utterance of that wanton
question with a shameful wound, and thinking that the lecherousness of her soul ought to be
cooled by outrage to her face. When he had done this, he said he left her choice free in the
matter she had asked about. Then he went quickly back to the town and plunged into the densest
of the fray, mowing down the opposing ranks as he gave blow for blow. Passing the sleeping-room
of Bjarke, who was still slumbering, he bade him wake up, addressing him as follows:

"Let him awake speedily, whoso showeth himself by service or avoweth himself in mere loyalty,
a friend of the king! Let the princes shake off slumber, let shameless lethargy begone; let
their spirits awake and warm to the work; each man's own right hand shall either give him to
glory, or steep him in sluggard shame; and this night shall be either end or vengeance of our woes.

"I do not now bid ye learn the sports of maidens, nor stroke soft cheeks, nor give sweet kisses
to the bride and press the slender breasts, nor desire the flowing wine and chafe the soft
thigh and cast eyes upon snowy arms. I call you out to the sterner fray of War. We need the
battle, and not light love; nerveless languor has no business here: our need calls for battles.
Whoso cherishes friendship for the king, let him take up arms. Prowess in war is the readiest
appraiser of men's spirits. Therefore let warriors have no fearfulness and the brave no fickleness:
let pleasure quit their soul and yield place to arms. Glory is now appointed for wages; each
can be the arbiter of his own renown, and shine by his own right hand. Let nought here be tricked
out with wantonness: let all be full of sternness, and learn how to rid them of this calamity.
He who covets the honours or prizes of glory must not be faint with craven fear, but go forth
to meet the brave, nor whiten at the cold steel."

At this utterance, Bjarke, awakened, roused up his chamber-page Skalk speedily, and addressed
him as follows:

"Up, lad, and fan the fire with constant blowing; sweep the hearth clear of wood, and scatter
the fine ashes. Strike out sparks from the fire, rouse the fallen embers, draw out the smothered
blaze. Force the slackening hearth to yield light by kindling the coals to a red glow with
a burning log. It will do me good to stretch out my fingers when the fire is brought nigh.
Surely he that takes heed for his friend should have warm hands, and utterly drive away the
blue and hurtful chill."

Hjalte said again: "Sweet is it to repay the gifts received from our lord, to grip the swords,
and devote the steel to glory. Behold, each man's courage tells him loyally to follow a king
of such deserts, and to guard our captain with fitting earnestness. Let the Teuton swords,
the helmets, the shining armlets, the mail-coats that reach the heel, which Rolf of old bestowed
upon his men, let these sharpen our mindful hearts to the fray. The time requires, and it is
just, that in time of war we should earn whatsoever we have gotten in the deep idleness of
peace, that we should not think more of joyous courses than of sorrowful fortunes, or always
prefer prosperity to hardship. Being noble, let us with even soul accept either lot, nor let
fortune sway our behaviour, for it beseems us to receive equably difficult and delightsome
days; let us pass the years of sorrow with the same countenance wherewith we took the years
of joy. Let us do with brave hearts all the things that in our cups we boasted with sodden
lips; let us keep the vows which we swore by highest Jove and the mighty gods. My master is
the greatest of the Danes: let each man, as he is valorous, stand by him; far, far hence be
all cowards! We need a brave and steadfast man, not one that turns his back on a dangerous
pass, or dreads the grim preparations for battle. Often a general's greatest valour depends
on his soldiery, for the chief enters the fray all the more at ease that a better array of
nobles throngs him round. Let the thane catch up his arms with fighting fingers, setting his
right hand on the hilt and holding fast the shield: let him charge upon the foes, nor pale
at any strokes. Let none offer himself to be smitten by the enemy behind, let none receive
the swords in his back: let the battling breast ever front the blow. `Eagles fight brow foremost',
and with swift gaping beaks speed onward in the front: be ye like that bird in mien, shrinking
from no stroke, but with body facing the foe.

"See how the enemy, furious and confident overduly, his limbs defended by the steel, and his
face with a gilded helmet, charges the thick of the battle-wedges, as though sure of victory,
fearless of rout and invincible by any endeavour. Ah, misery! Swedish assurance spurns the
Danes. Behold, the Goths with savage eyes and grim aspect advance with crested helms and clanging
spears: wreaking heavy slaughter in our blood, they wield their swords and their battle-axes
hone-sharpened.

"Why name thee, Hiartuar, whom Skulde hath filled with guilty purpose, and hath suffered thus
to harden in sin? Why sing of thee, villain, who hast caused our peril, betrayer of a noble
king? Furious lust of sway hath driven thee to attempt an abomination, and, stung with frenzy,
to screen thyself behind thy wife's everlasting guilt. What error hath made thee to hurt the
Danes and thy lord, and hurled thee into such foul crime as this? Whence entered thy heart
the treason framed with such careful guile?

"Why do I linger? Now we have swallowed our last morsel. Our king perishes, and utter doom
overtakes our hapless city. Our last dawn has risen, unless perchance there be one here so
soft that he fears to offer himself to the blows, or so unwarlike that he dares not avenge
his lord, and disowns all honours worthy of his valour.

"Thou, Ruta, rise and put forth thy snow-white head, come forth from thy hiding into the battle.
The carnage that is being done without calls thee. By now the council-chamber is shaken with
warfare, and the gates creak with the dreadful fray. Steel rends the mail-coats, the woven
mesh is torn apart, and the midriff gives under the rain of spears. By now the huge axes have
hacked small the shield of the king; by now the long swords clash, and the battle-axe clatters
its blows upon the shoulders of men, and cleaves their breasts. Why are your hearts afraid?
Why is your sword faint and blunted? The gate is cleared of our people, and is filled with
the press of the strangers."

And when Hjalte had wrought very great carnage and stained the battle with blood, he stumbled
for the third time on Bjarke's berth, and thinking he desired to keep quiet because he was
afraid, made trial of him with such taunts at his cowardice as these:

"Bjarke, why art thou absent? Doth deep sleep hold thee? I prithee, what makes thee tarry?
Come out, or the fire will overcome thee. Ho! Choose the better way, charge with me! Bears
may be kept off with fire; let us spread fire in the recesses, and let the blaze attack the
door-posts first. Let the firebrand fall upon the bedchamber, let the falling roof offer fuel
for the flames and serve to feed the fire. It is right to scatter conflagration on the doomed
gates. But let us who honour our king with better loyalty form the firm battle-wedges, and,
having measured the phalanx in safe rows, go forth in the way the king taught us: our king,
who laid low Rorik, the son of Bok the covetous, and wrapped the coward in death. He was rich
in wealth, but in enjoyment poor, stronger in gain than bravery; and thinking gold better than
warfare, he set lucre above all things, and ingloriously accumulated piles of treasure, scorning
the service of noble friends. And when he was attacked by the navy of Rolf, he bade his servants
take the gold from the chests and spread it out in front of the city gates, making ready bribes
rather than battle, because he knew not the soldier, and thought that the foe should be attempted
with gifts and not with arms: as though he could fight with wealth alone, and prolong the war
by using, not men, but wares! So he undid the heavy coffers and the rich chests; he brought
forth the polished bracelets and the heavy caskets; they only fed his destruction. Rich in
treasure, poor in warriors, he left his foes to take away the prizes which he forebore to give
to the friends of his own land. He who once shrank to give little rings of his own will, now
unwillingly squandered his masses of wealth, rifling his hoarded heap. But our king in his
wisdom spurned him and the gifts he proffered, and took from him life and goods at once; nor
was his foe profited by the useless wealth which he had greedily heaped up through long years.
But Rolf the righteous assailed him, slew him, and captured his vast wealth, and shared among
worthy friends what the hand of avarice had piled up in all those years; and, bursting into
the camp which was wealthy but not brave, gave his friends a lordly booty without bloodshed.
Nothing was so fair to him that he would not lavish it, or so dear that he would not give it
to his friends, for he used treasure like ashes, and measured his years by glory and not by
gain. Whence it is plain that the king who hath died nobly lived also most nobly, that the
hour of his doom is beautiful, and that he graced the years of his life with manliness. For
while he lived his glowing valour prevailed over all things, and he was allotted might worthy
of his lofty stature. He was as swift to war as a torrent tearing down to sea, and as speedy
to begin battle as a stag is to fly with cleft foot upon his fleet way.

"See now, among the pools dripping with human blood, the teeth struck out of the slain are
carried on by the full torrent of gore, and are polished on the rough sands. Dashed on the
slime they glitter, and the torrent of blood bears along splintered bones and flows above lopped
limbs. The blood of the Danes is wet, and the gory flow stagnates far around, and the stream
pressed out of the steaming veins rolls back the scattered bodies. Tirelessly against the Danes
advances Hiartuar, lover of battle, and challenges the fighters with outstretched spear. Yet
here, amid the dangers and dooms of war, I see Frode's grandson smiling joyously, who once
sowed the fields of Fyriswald with gold. Let us also be exalted with an honourable show of
joy, following in death the doom of our noble father. Be we therefore cheery in voice and bold
in daring; for it is right to spurn all fear with words of courage, and to meet our death in
deeds of glory. Let fear quit heart and face; in both let us avow our dauntless endeavours,
that no sign anywhere may show us to betray faltering fear. Let our drawn sword measure the
weight of our service. Fame follows us in death, and glory shall outlive our crumbling ashes!
And that which perfect valour hath achieved during its span shall not fade for ever and ever.
What want we with closed floors? Why doth the locked bolt close the folding-gates? For it is
now the third cry, Bjarke, that calls thee, and bids thee come forth from the barred room."

Bjarke rejoined: "Warlike Hjalte, why dost thou call me so loud? I am the son-in-law of Rolf.
He who boasts loud and with big words challenges other men to battle, is bound to be venturous
and act up to his words, that his deed may avouch his vaunt. But stay till I am armed and have
girded on the dread attire of war.

"And now I tie my sword to my side, now first I get my body guarded with mail-coat and headpiece,
the helm keeping my brows and the stout iron shrouding my breast. None shrinks more than I
from being burnt a prisoner inside, and made a pyre together with my own house: though an island
brought me forth, and though the land of my birth be bounded, I shall hold it a debt to repay
to the king the twelve kindreds which he added to my honours. Hearken, warriors! Let none robe
in mail his body that shall perish; let him last of all draw tight the woven steel; let the
shields go behind the back; let us fight with bared breasts, and load all your arms with gold.
Let your right hands receive the bracelets, that they may swing their blows the more heavily
and plant the grievous wound. Let none fall back! Let each zealously strive to meet the swords
of the enemy and the threatening spears, that we may avenge our beloved master. Happy beyond
all things is he who can mete out revenge for such a crime, and with righteous steel punish
the guilt of treacheries.

"Lo, methinks I surely pierced a wild stag with the Teutonic sword which is called Snyrtir:
from which I won the name of Warrior, when I felled Agnar, son of Ingild, and brought the trophy
home. He shattered and broke with the bite the sword Hoding which smote upon my head, and would
have dealt worse wounds if the edge of his blade had held out better. In return I clove asunder
his left arm and part of his left side and his right foot, and the piercing steel ran down
his limbs and smote deep into his ribs. By Hercules! No man ever seemed to me stronger than
he. For he sank down half-conscious, and, leaning on his elbow, welcomed death with a smile,
and spurned destruction with a laugh, and passed rejoicing in the world of Elysium. Mighty
was the man's courage, which knew how with one laugh to cover his death-hour, and with a joyous
face to suppress utter anguish of mind and body!

"Now also with the same blade I searched the heart of one sprung from an illustrious line,
and plunged the steel deep in his breast. He was a king's son, of illustrious ancestry, of
a noble nature, and shone with the brightness of youth. The mailed metal could not avail him,
nor his sword, nor the smooth target-boss; so keen was the force of my steel, it knew not how
to be stayed by obstacles.

"Where, then, are the captains of the Goths, and the soldiery of Hiartuar? Let them come, and
pay for their might with their life-blood. Who can cast, who whirl the lance, save scions of
kings? War springs from the nobly born: famous pedigrees are the makers of war. For the perilous
deeds which chiefs attempt are not to be done by the ventures of common men. Renowned nobles
are passing away. Lo! Greatest Rolf, thy great ones have fallen, thy holy line is vanishing.
No dim and lowly race, no low-born dead, no base souls are Pluto's prey, but he weaves the
dooms of the mighty, and fills Phlegethon with noble shapes.

"I do not remember any combat wherein swords were crossed in turn and blow dealt out for blow
more speedily. I take three for each I give; thus do the Goths requite the wounds I deal them,
and thus doth the stronger hand of the enemy avenge with heaped interest the punishment that
they receive. Yet singly in battle I have given over the bodies of so many men to the pyre
of destruction, that a mound like a hill could grow up and be raised out of their lopped limbs,
and the piles of carcases would look like a burial-barrow. And now what doeth he, who but now
bade me come forth, vaunting himself with mighty praise, and chafing others with his arrogant
words, and scattering harsh taunts, as though in his one body he enclosed twelve lives?"

Hjalte answered: "Though I have but scant help, I am not far off. Even here, where I stand,
there is need of aid, and nowhere is a force or a chosen band of warriors ready for battle
wanted more. Already the hard edges and the spear-points have cleft my shield in splinters,
and the ravening steel has rent and devoured its portions bit by bit in the battle. The first
of these things testifies to and avows itself. Seeing is better than telling, eyesight faithfuller
than hearing. For of the broken shield only the fastenings remain, and the boss, pierced and
broken in its circle, is all left me. And now, Bjarke, thou art strong, though thou hast come
forth more tardily than was right, and thou retrievest by bravery the loss caused by thy loitering."

But Bjarke said: "Art thou not yet weary of girding at me and goading me with taunts? Many
things often cause delay. The reason why I tarried was the sword in my path, which the Swedish
foe whirled against my breast with mighty effort. Nor did the guider of the hilt drive home
the sword with little might; for though the body was armed he smote it as far as one may when
it is bare or defenceless; he pierced the armour of hard steel like yielding waters; nor could
the rough, heavy breastplate give me any help.

"But where now is he that is commonly called Odin, the mighty in battle, content ever with
a single eye? If thou see him anywhere, Rute, tell me."

Rute replied: "Bring thine eye closer and look under my arm akimbo: thou must first hallow
thine eyes with the victorious sign, if thou wilt safely know the War-god face to face."

Then said Bjarke: "If I may look on the awful husband of Frigg, howsoever he be covered with
his white shield, and guide his tall steed, he shall in no wise go safe out of Leire; it is
lawful to lay low in war the war-waging god. Let a noble death come to those that fall before
the eyes of their king. While life lasts, let us strive for the power to die honourably and
to reap a noble end by our deeds. I will die overpowered near the head of my slain captain,
and at his feet thou also shalt slip on thy face in death, so that whoso scans the piled corpses
may see in what wise we rate the gold our lord gave us. We shall be the prey of ravens and
a morsel for hungry eagles, and the ravening bird shall feast on the banquet of our body. Thus
should fall princes dauntless in war, clasping their famous king in a common death."

I have composed this particular series of harangues in metrical shape, because the gist of
the same thoughts is found arranged in a short form in a certain ancient Danish song, which
is repeated by heart by many conversant with antiquity.

Now, it came to pass that the Goths gained the victory and all the array of Rolf fell, no man
save Wigg remaining out of all those warriors. For the soldiers of the king paid this homage
to his noble virtues in that battle, that his slaying inspired in all the longing to meet their
end, and union with him in death was accounted sweeter than life.

HIARTUAR rejoiced, and had the tables spread for feasting, bidding the banquet come after the
battle, and fain to honour his triumph with a carouse. And when he was well filled therewith,
he said that it was matter of great marvel to him, that out of all the army of Rolf no man
had been found to take thought for his life by flight or fraud. Hence, he said, it had been
manifest with what zealous loyalty they had kept their love for their king, because they had
not endured to survive him. He also blamed his ill fortune, because it had not suffered the
homage of a single one of them to be left for himself: protesting that he would very willingly
accept the service of such men. Then Wigg came forth, and Hiartuar, as though he were congratulating
him on the gift, asked him if he were willing to fight for him. Wigg assenting, he drew and
proferred him a sword. But Wigg refused the point, and asked for the hilt, saying first that
this had been Rolf's custom when he handed forth a sword to his soldiers. For in old time those
who were about to put themselves in dependence on the king used to promise fealty by touching
the hilt of the sword. And in this wise Wigg clasped the hilt, and then drove the point through
Hiartuar; thus gaining the vengeance which he had promised Rolf to accomplish for him. When
he had done this, and the soldiers of Hiartuar rushed at him, he exposed his body to them eagerly
and exultantly, shouting that he felt more joy in the slaughter of the tyrant than bitterness
at his own. Thus the feast was turned into a funeral, and the wailing of burial followed the
joy of victory. Glorious, ever memorable hero, who valiantly kept his vow, and voluntarily
courted death, staining with blood by his service the tables of the despot! For the lively
valour of his spirit feared not the hands of the slaughterers, when he had once beheld the
place where Rolf had been wont to live bespattered with the blood of his slayer. Thus the royalty
of Hiartuar was won and ended on the same day. For whatsoever is gotten with guile melts away
in like fashion as it is sought, and no fruits are long-lasting that have been won by treachery
and crime. Hence it came to pass that the Swedes, who had a little before been the possessors
of Denmark, came to lose even their own liberty. For they were straightway cut off by the Zealanders,
and paid righteous atonement to the injured shades of Rolf. In this way does stern fortune
commonly avenge the works of craft and cunning.

BOOK THREE.

After Hiartuar, HOTHER, whom I mentioned above, the brother of Athisl, and also the fosterling
of King Gewar, became sovereign of both realms. It will be easier to relate his times if I
begin with the beginning of his life. For if the earlier years of his career are not doomed
to silence, the latter ones can be more fully and fairly narrated.

When Helgi had slain Hodbrodd, his son Hother passed the length of his boyhood under the tutelage
of King Gewar. While a stripling, he excelled in strength of body all his foster-brethren and
compeers. Moreover, he was gifted with many accomplishments of mind. He was very skilled in
swimming and archery, and also with the gloves; and further was as nimble as such a youth could
be, his training being equal to his strength. Though his years were unripe, his richly-dowered
spirit surpassed them. None was more skilful on lyre or harp; and he was cunning on the timbrel,
on the lute, and in every modulation of string instruments. With his changing measures he could
sway the feelings of men to what passions he would; he knew how to fill human hearts with joy
or sadness, with pity or with hatred, and used to enwrap the soul with the delight or terror
of the ear. All these accomplishments of the youth pleased Nanna, the daughter of Gewar, mightily,
and she began to seek his embraces. For the valour of a youth will often kindle a maid, and
the courage of those whose looks are not so winning is often acceptable. For love hath many
avenues; the path of pleasure is opened to some by grace, to others by bravery of soul, and
to some by skill in accomplishments. Courtesy brings to some stores of Love, while most are
commended by brightness of beauty. Nor do the brave inflict a shallower wound on maidens than
the comely.

Now it befell that Balder the son of Odin was troubled at the sight of Nanna bathing, and was
seized with boundless love. He was kindled by her fair and lustrous body, and his heart was
set on fire by her manifest beauty; for nothing exciteth passion like comeliness. Therefore
he resolved to slay with the sword Hother, who, he feared, was likeliest to baulk his wishes;
so that his love, which brooked no postponement, might not be delayed in the enjoyment of its
desire by any obstacle.

About this time Hother chanced, while hunting, to be led astray by a mist, and he came on a
certain lodge in which were wood-maidens; and when they greeted him by his own name, he asked
who they were. They declared that it was their guidance and government that mainly determined
the fortunes of war. For they often invisibly took part in battles, and by their secret assistance
won for their friends the coveted victories. They averted, indeed, that they could win triumphs
and inflict defeats as they would; and further told him how Balder had seen his foster-sister
Nanna while she bathed, and been kindled with passion for her; but counselled Hother not to
attack him in war, worthy as he was of his deadliest hate, for they declared that Balder was
a demigod, sprung secretly from celestial seed. When Hother had heard this, the place melted
away and left him shelterless, and he found himself standing in the open and out in the midst
of the fields, without a vestige of shade. Most of all he marvelled at the swift flight of
the maidens, the shifting of the place, and the delusive semblance of the building. For he
knew not that all that had passed around him had been a mere mockery and an unreal trick of
the arts of magic.

Returning thence, he related to Gewar the mystification that had followed on his straying,
and straightway asked him for his daughter. Gewar answered that he would most gladly favour
him, but that he feared if he rejected Balder he would incur his wrath; for Balder, he said,
had proffered him a like request. For he said that the sacred strength of Balder's body was
proof even against steel; adding, however, that he knew of a sword which could deal him his
death, which was fastened up in the closest bonds; this was in the keeping of Miming, the Satyr
of the woods, who also had a bracelet of a secret and marvellous virtue, that used to increase
the wealth of the owner. Moreover, the way to these regions was impassable and filled with
obstacles, and therefore hard for mortal men to travel. For the greater part of the road was
perpetually beset with extraordinary cold. So he advised him to harness a car with reindeer,
by means of whose great speed he could cross the hard-frozen ridges. And when he had got to
the place, he should set up his tent away from the sun in such wise that it should catch the
shadow of the cave where Miming was wont to be; while he should not in return cast a shade
upon Miming, so that no unaccustomed darkness might be thrown and prevent the Satyr from going
out. Thus both the bracelet and the sword would be ready to his hand, one being attended by
fortune in wealth and the other by fortune in war, and each of them thus bringing a great prize
to the owner. Thus much said Gewar; and Hother was not slow to carry out his instructions.
Planting his tent in the manner aforesaid, he passed the nights in anxieties and the days in
hunting. But through either season he remained very wakeful and sleepless, allotting the divisions
of night and day so as to devote the one to reflection on events, and to spend the other in
providing food for his body. Once as he watched all night, his spirit was drooping and dazed
with anxiety, when the Satyr cast a shadow on his tent. Aiming a spear at him, he brought him
down with the blow, stopped him, and bound him, while he could not make his escape. Then in
the most dreadful words he threatened him with the worst, and demanded the sword and bracelets.
The Satyr was not slow to tender him the ransom of his life for which he was asked. So surely
do all prize life beyond wealth; for nothing is ever cherished more among mortals than the
breath of their own life. Hother, exulting in the treasure he had gained, went home enriched
with trophies which, though few, were noble.

When Gelder, the King of Saxony, heard that Hother had gained these things, he kept constantly
urging his soldiers to go and carry off such glorious booty; and the warriors speedily equipped
a fleet in obedience to their king. Gewar, being very learned in divining and an expert in
the knowledge of omens, foresaw this; and summoning Hother, told him, when Gelder should join
battle with him, to receive his spears with patience, and not let his own fly until he saw
the enemy's missiles exhausted; and further, to bring up the curved scythes wherewith the vessels
could be rent and the helmets and shields plucked from the soldiers. Hother followed his advice
and found its result fortunate. For he bade his men, when Gelder began to charge, to stand
their ground and defend their bodies with their shields, affirming that the victory in that
battle must be won by patience. But the enemy nowhere kept back their missiles, spending them
all in their extreme eagerness to fight; and the more patiently they found Hother bear himself
in his reception of their spears and lances, the more furiously they began to hurl them. Some
of these stuck in the shields and some in the ships, and few were the wounds they inflicted;
many of them were seen to be shaken off idly and to do no hurt. For the soldiers of Hother
performed the bidding of their king, and kept off the attack of the spears by a penthouse of
interlocked shields; while not a few of the spears smote lightly on the bosses and fell into
the waves. When Gelder was emptied of all his store, and saw the enemy picking it up, and swiftly
hurling it back at him, he covered the summit of the mast with a crimson shield, as a signal
of peace, and surrendered to save his life. Hother received him with the friendliest face and
the kindliest words, and conquered him as much by his gentleness as he had by his skill.

At this time Helgi, King of Halogaland, was sending frequent embassies to press his suit for
Thora, daughter of Kuse, sovereign of the Finns and Perms. Thus is weakness ever known by its
wanting help from others. For while all other young men of that time used to sue in marriage
with their own lips, this man was afflicted with so faulty an utterance that he was ashamed
to be heard not only by strangers, but by those of his own house. So much doth calamity shun
all witnesses; for natural defects are the more vexing the more manifest they are. Kuse despised
his embassy, answering that that man did not deserve a wife who trusted too little to his own
manhood, and borrowed by entreaty the aid of others in order to gain his suit. When Helgi heard
this, he besought Hother, whom he knew to be an accomplished pleader, to favour his desires,
promising that he would promptly perform whatsoever he should command him. The earnest entreaties
of the youth prevailed on Hother, and he went to Norway with an armed fleet, intending to achieve
by arms the end which he could not by words. And when he had pleaded for Helgi with the most
dulcet eloquence, Kuse rejoined that his daughter's wish must be consulted, in order that no
paternal strictness might forestall anything against her will. He called her in and asked her
whether she felt a liking for her wooer; and when she assented he promised Helgi her hand.
In this way Hother, by the sweet sounds of his fluent and well-turned oratory, opened the ears
of Kuse, which were before deaf to the suit he urged.

While this was passing in Halogaland, Balder entered the country of Gewar armed, in order to
sue for Nanna. Gewar bade him learn Nanna's own mind; so he approached the maiden with the
most choice and cajoling words; and when he could win no hearing for his prayers, he persisted
in asking the reason of his refusal. She replied, that a god could not wed with a mortal, because
the vast difference of their natures prevented any bond of intercourse. Also the gods sometimes
used to break their pledges; and the bond contracted between unequals was apt to snap suddenly.
There was no firm tie between those of differing estate; for beside the great, the fortunes
of the lowly were always dimmed. Also lack and plenty dwelt in diverse tents, nor was there
any fast bond of intercourse between gorgeous wealth and obscure poverty. In fine, the things
of earth would not mate with those of heaven, being sundered by a great original gulf through
a difference in nature; inasmuch as mortal man was infinitely far from the glory of the divine
majesty. With this shuffling answer she eluded the suit of Balder, and shrewdly wove excuses
to refuse his hand.

When Hother heard this from Gewar, he complained long to Helgi of Balder's insolence. Both
were in doubt as to what should be done, and beat their brains over divers plans; for converse
with a friend in the day of trouble, though it removeth not the peril, yet maketh the heart
less sick. Amid all the desires of their souls the passion of valour prevailed, and a naval
battle was fought with Balder. One would have thought it a contest of men against gods, for
Odin and Thor and the holy array of the gods fought for Balder. There one could have beheld
a war in which divine and human might were mingled. But Hother was clad in his steel-defying
tunic, and charged the closest bands of the gods, assailing them as vehemently as a son of
earth could assail the powers above. However, Thor was swinging his club with marvellous might,
and shattered all interposing shields, calling as loudly on his foes to attack him as upon
his friends to back him up. No kind of armour withstood his onset, no man could receive his
stroke and live. Whatsoever his blow fended off it crushed; neither shield nor helm endured
the weight of its dint; no greatness of body or of strength could serve. Thus the victory would
have passed to the gods, but that Hother, though his line had already fallen back, darted up,
hewed off the club at the haft, and made it useless. And the gods, when they had lost this
weapon, fled incontinently. But that antiquity vouches for it, it were quite against common
belief to think that men prevailed against gods. (We call them gods in a supposititious rather
than in a real sense; for to such we give the title of deity by the custom of nations, not
because of their nature.)

As for Balder, he took to flight and was saved. The conquerors either hacked his ships with
their swords or sunk them in the sea; not content to have defeated gods, they pursued the wrecks
of the fleet with such rage, as if they would destroy them to satiate their deadly passion
for war. Thus doth prosperity commonly whet the edge of licence. The haven, recalling by its
name Balder's flight, bears witness to the war. Gelder, the King of Saxony, who met his end
in the same war, was set by Hother upon the corpses of his oarsmen, and then laid on a pyre
built of vessels, and magnificently honoured in his funeral by Hother, who not only put his
ashes in a noble barrow, treating them as the remains of a king, but also graced them with
most reverent obsequies. Then, to prevent any more troublesome business delaying his hopes
of marriage, he went back to Gewar and enjoyed the coveted embraces of Nanna. Next, having
treated Helgi and Thora very generously, he brought his new queen back to Sweden, being as
much honoured by all for his victory as Balder was laughed at for his flight.

At this time the nobles of the Swedes repaired to Demnark to pay their tribute; but Hother,
who had been honoured as a king by his countrymen for the splendid deeds of his father, experienced
what a lying pander Fortune is. For he was conquered in the field by Balder, whom a little
before he had crushed, and was forced to flee to Gewar, thus losing while a king that victory
which he had won as a common man. The conquering Balder, in order to slake his soldiers, who
were parched with thirst, with the blessing of a timely draught, pierced the earth deep and
disclosed a fresh spring. The thirsty ranks made with gaping lips for the water that gushed
forth everywhere. The traces of these springs, eternised by the name, are thought not quite
to have dried up yet, though they have ceased to well so freely as of old. Balder was continually
harassed by night phantoms feigning the likeness of Nanna, and fell into such ill health that
he could not so much as walk, and began the habit of going his journeys in a two horse car
or a four-wheeled carriage. So great was the love that had steeped his heart and now had brought
him down almost to the extremity of decline. For he thought that his victory had brought him
nothing if Nanna was not his prize. Also Frey, the regent of the gods, took his abode not far
from Upsala, where he exchanged for a ghastly and infamous sin-offering the old custom of prayer
by sacrifice, which had been used by so many ages and generations. For he paid to the gods
abominable offerings, by beginning to slaughter human victims.

Meantime Hother (1) learned that Denmark lacked leaders, and that Hiartuar had swiftly expiated
the death of Rolf; and he used to say that chance had thrown into his hands that to which he
could scarce have aspired. For first, Rolf, whom he ought to have killed, since he remembered
that Rolf's father had slain his own, had been punished by the help of another; and also, by
the unexpected bounty of events, a chance had been opened to him of winning Denmark. In truth,
if the pedigree of his forefathers were rightly traced, that realm was his by ancestral right!
Thereupon he took possession, with a very great fleet, of Isefjord, a haven of Zealand, so
as to make use of his impending fortune. There the people of the Danes met him and appointed
him king; and a little after, on hearing of the death of his brother Athisl, whom he had bidden
rule the Swedes, he joined the Swedish empire to that of Denmark. But Athisl was cut off by
an ignominious death. For whilst, in great jubilation of spirit, he was honouring the funeral
rites of Rolf with a feast, he drank too greedily, and paid for his filthy intemperance by
his sudden end. And so, while he was celebrating the death of another with immoderate joviality,
he forced on his own apace.

While Hother was in Sweden, Balder also came to Zealand with a fleet; and since he was thought
to be rich in arms and of singular majesty, the Danes accorded him with the readiest of voices
whatever he asked concerning the supreme power. With such wavering judgment was the opinion
of our forefathers divided. Hother returned from Sweden and attacked him. They both coveted
sway, and the keenest contest for the sovereignty began between them; but it was cut short
by the flight of Hother. He retired to Jutland, and caused to be named after him the village
in which he was wont to stay. Here he passed the winter season, and then went back to Sweden
alone and unattended. There he summoned the grandees, and told them that he was weary of the
light of life because of the misfortunes wherewith Balder had twice victoriously stricken him.
Then he took farewell of all, and went by a circuitous path to a place that was hard of access,
traversing forests uncivilised. For it oft happens that those upon whom has come some inconsolable
trouble of spirit seek, as though it were a medicine to drive away their sadness, far and sequestered
retreats, and cannot bear the greatness of their grief amid the fellowship of men; so dear,
for the most part, is solitude to sickness. For filthiness and grime are chiefly pleasing to
those who have been stricken with ailments of the soul. Now he had been wont to give out from
the top of a hill decrees to the people when they came to consult him; and hence when they
came they upbraided the sloth of the king for hiding himself, and his absence was railed at
by all with the bitterest complaints.

But Hother, when he had wandered through remotest byways and crossed an uninhabited forest,
chanced to come upon a cave where dwelt some maidens whom he knew not; but they proved to be
the same who had once given him the invulnerable coat. Asked by them wherefore he had come
thither, he related the disastrous issue of the war. So he began to bewail the ill luck of
his failures and his dismal misfortunes, condemning their breach of faith, and lamenting that
it had not turned out for him as they had promised him. But the maidens said that though he
had seldom come off victorious, he had nevertheless inflicted as much defeat on the enemy as
they on him, and had dealt as much carnage as he had shared in. Moreover, the favour of victory
would be speedily his, if he could first lay hands upon a food of extraordinary delightsomeness
which had been devised to increase the strength of Balder. For nothing would be difficult if
he could only get hold of the dainty which was meant to enhance the rigour of his foe.

Hard as it sounded for earthborn endeavours to make armed assault upon the gods, the words
of the maidens inspired Hother's mind with instant confidence to fight with Balder. Also some
of his own people said that he could not safely contend with those above; but all regard for
their majesty was expelled by the boundless fire of his spirit. For in brave souls vehemence
is not always sapped by reason, nor doth counsel defeat rashness. Or perchance it was that
Hother remembered how the might of the lordliest oft proveth unstable, and how a little clod
can batter down great chariots.

On the other side, Balder mustered the Danes to arms and met Hother in the field. Both sides
made a great slaughter; the carnage of the opposing parties was nearly equal, and night stayed
the battle. About the third watch, Hother, unknown to any man, went out to spy upon the enemy,
anxiety about the impending peril having banished sleep. This strong excitement favours not
bodily rest, and inward disquiet suffers not outward repose. So, when he came to the camp of
the enemy he heard that three maidens had gone out carrying the secret feast of Balder. He
ran after them (for their footsteps in the dew betrayed their flight), and at last entered
their accustomed dwelling. When they asked him who he was, he answered, a lutanist, nor did
the trial belie his profession. For when the lyre was offered him, he tuned its strings, ordered
and governed the chords with his quill, and with ready modulation poured forth a melody pleasant
to the ear. Now they had three snakes, of whose venom they were wont to mix a strengthening
compound for the food of Balder, and even now a flood of slaver was dripping on the food from
the open mouths of the serpents. And some of the maidens would, for kindness sake, have given
Hother a share of the dish, had not eldest of the three forbidden them, declaring that Balder
would be cheated if they increased the bodily powers of his enemy. He had said, not that he
was Hother, but that he was one of his company. Now the same nymphs, in their gracious kindliness,
bestowed on him a belt of perfect sheen and a girdle which assured victory.

Retracing the path by which he had come, he went back on the same road, and meeting Balder
plunged his sword into his side, and laid him low half dead. When the news was told to the
soldiers, a cheery shout of triumph rose from all the camp of Hother, while the Danes held
a public mourning for the fate of Balder. He, feeling no doubt of his impending death, and
stung by the anguish of his wound, renewed the battle on the morrow; and, when it raged hotly,
bade that he should be borne on a litter into the fray, that he might not seem to die ignobly
within his tent. On the night following, Proserpine was seen to stand by him in a vision, and
to promise that on the morrow he should have her embrace. The boding of the dream was not idle;
for when three days had passed, Balder perished from the excessive torture of his wound; and
his body given a royal funeral, the army causing it to be buried in a barrow which they had made.

Certain men of our day, Chief among whom was Harald, (2) since the story of the ancient burial-place
still survived, made a raid on it by night in the hope of finding money, but abandoned their
attempt in sudden panic. For the hill split, and from its crest a sudden and mighty torrent
of loud-roaring waters seemed to burst; so that its flying mass, shooting furiously down, poured
over the fields below, and enveloped whatsoever it struck upon, and at its onset the delvers
were dislodged, flung down their mattocks, and fled divers ways; thinking that if they strove
any longer to carry through their enterprise they would be caught in the eddies of the water
that was rushing down. Thus the guardian gods of that spot smote fear suddenly into the minds
of the youths, taking them away from covetousness, and turning them to see to their safety;
teaching them to neglect their greedy purpose and be careful of their lives. Now it is certain
that this apparent flood was not real but phantasmal; not born in the bowels of the earth (since
Nature suffereth not liquid springs to gush forth in a dry place), but produced by some magic
agency. All men afterwards, to whom the story of that breaking in had come down, left this
hill undisturbed. Wherefore it has never been made sure whether it really contains any wealth;
for the dread of peril has daunted anyone since Harald from probing its dark foundations.

But Odin, though he was accounted the chief of the gods, began to inquire of the prophets and
diviners concerning the way to accomplish vengeance for his son, as well as all others whom
he had beard were skilled in the most recondite arts of soothsaying. For godhead that is incomplete
is oft in want of the help of man. Rostioph (Hrossthiof), the Finn, foretold to him that another
son must be born to him by Rinda (Wrinda), daughter of the King of the Ruthenians; this son
was destined to exact punishment for the slaying of his brother. For the gods had appointed
to the brother that was yet to be born the task of avenging his kinsman. Odin, when he heard
this, muffled his face with a cap, that his garb might not betray him, and entered the service
of the said king as a soldier; and being made by him captain of the soldiers, and given an
army, won a splendid victory over the enemy. And for his stout achievement in this battle the
king admitted him into the chief place in his friendship, distinguishing him as generously
with gifts as with honours. A very little while afterwards Odin routed the enemy single-handed,
and returned, at once the messenger and the doer of the deed. All marvelled that the strength
of one man could deal such slaughter upon a countless host. Trusting in these services, he
privily let the king into the secret of his love, and was refreshed by his most gracious favour;
but when he sought a kiss from the maiden, he received a cuff. But he was not driven from his
purpose either by anger at the slight or by the odiousness of the insult.

Next year, loth to quit ignobly the quest he had taken up so eagerly, he put on the dress of
a foreigner and went back to dwell with the king. It was hard for those who met him to recognise
him; for his assumed filth obliterated his true features, and new grime hid his ancient aspect.
He said that his name was Roster (Hrosstheow), and that he was skilled in smithcraft. And his
handiwork did honour to his professions: for he portrayed in bronze many and many a shape most
beautifully, so that he received a great mass of gold from the king, and was ordered to hammer
out the ornaments of the matrons. So, after having wrought many adornments for women's wearing,
he at last offered to the maiden a bracelet which he had polished more laboriously than the
rest and several rings which were adorned with equal care. But no services could assuage the
wrath of Rinda; when he was fain to kiss her she cuffed him; for gifts offered by one we hate
are unacceptable, while those tendered by a friend are far more grateful: so much doth the
value of the offering oft turn on the offerer. For this stubborn-hearted maiden never doubted
that the crafty old man was feigning generosity in order to seize an opening to work his lust.
His temper, moreover, was keen and indomitable; for she knew that his homage covered guile,
and that under the devotion of his gifts there lay a desire for crime. Her father fell to upbraiding
her heavily for refusing the match; but she loathed to wed an old man, and the plea of her
tender years lent her some support in her scorning of his hand; for she said that a young girl
ought not to marry prematurely.

But Odin, who had found that nothing served the wishes of lovers more than tough persistency,
though he was stung with the shame of his double rebuff, nevertheless, effacing the form he
had worn before, went to the king for the third time, professing the completest skill in soldiership.
He was led to take this pains not only by pleasure but by the wish to wipe out his disgrace.
For of old those who were skilled in magic gained this power of instantly changing their aspect
and exhibiting the most different shapes. Indeed, they were clever at imitating any age, not
only in its natural bodily appearance, but also in its stature; and so the old man, in order
to exhibit his calling agreeably, used to ride proudly up and down among the briskest of them.
But not even such a tribute could move the rigour of the maiden; for it is hard for the mind
to come back to a genuine liking for one against whom it has once borne heavy dislike. When
he tried to kiss her at his departure, she repulsed him so that he tottered and smote his chin
upon the ground. Straightway he touched her with a piece of bark whereon spells were written,
and made her like unto one in frenzy: which was a gentle revenge to take for all the insults
he had received.

But still he did not falter in the fulfilment of his purpose; for trust in his divine majesty
buoyed him up with confidence; so, assuming the garb of a maiden, this indefatigable journeyer
repaired for the fourth time to the king, and, on being received by him, showed himself assiduous
and even forward. Most people believed him to be a woman, as he was dressed almost in female
attire. Also he declared that his name was Wecha, and his calling that of a physician: and
this assertion he confirmed by the readiest services. At last he was taken into the household
of the queen, and played the part of a waiting-woman to the princess, and even used to wash
the soil off her feet at eventide; and as he was applying the water he was suffered to touch
her calves and the upper part of the thighs. But fortune goes with mutable steps, and thus
chance put into his hand what his address had never won. For it happened that the girl fell
sick, and looked around for a cure; and she summoned to protect her health those very hands
which aforetime she had rejected, and appealed for preservation to him whom she had ever held
in loathing. He examined narrowly all the symptoms of the trouble, and declared that, in order
to check the disease as soon as possible, it was needful to use a certain drugged draught;
but that it was so bitterly compounded, that the girl could never endure so violent a cure
unless she submitted to be bound; since the stuff of the malady must be ejected from the very
innermost tissues. When her father heard this he did not hesitate to bind his daughter; and
laying her on the bed, he bade her endure patiently all the applications of the doctor. For
the king was tricked by the sight of the female dress, which the old man was using to disguise
his persistent guile; and thus the seeming remedy became an opportunity of outrage. For the
physician seized the chance of love, and, abandoning his business of healing, sped to the work,
not of expelling the fever, but of working his lust; making use of the sickness of the princess,
whom in sound health he had found adverse to him. It will not be wearisome if I subjoin another
version of this affair. For there are certain who say that the king, when he saw the physician
groaning with love, but despite all his expense of mind and body accomplishing nothing, did
not wish to rob of his due reward one who had so well earned it, and allowed him to lie privily
with his daughter. So doth the wickedness of the father sometimes assail the child, when vehement
passion perverts natural mildness. But his fault was soon followed by a remorse that was full
of shame, when his daughter bore a child.

But the gods, whose chief seat was then at Byzantium, (Asgard), seeing that Odin had tarnished
the fair name of godhead by divers injuries to its majesty, thought that he ought to be removed
from their society. And they had him not only ousted from the headship, but outlawed and stripped
of all worship and honour at home; thinking it better that the power of their infamous president
should be overthrown than that public religion should be profaned; and fearing that they might
themselves be involved in the sin of another, and though guiltless be punished for the crime
of the guilty. For they saw that, now the derision of their great god was brought to light,
those whom they had lured to proffer them divine honours were exchanging obeisance for scorn
and worship for shame; that holy rites were being accounted sacrilege, and fixed and regular
ceremonies deemed so much childish raving. Fear was in their souls, death before their eyes,
and one would have supposed that the fault of one was visited upon the heads of all. So, not
wishing Odin to drive public religion into exile, they exiled him and put one Oller (Wulder?)
in his place, to bear the symbols not only Of royalty but also of godhead, as though it had
been as easy a task to create a god as a king. And though they had appointed him priest for
form's sake, they endowed him actually with full distinction, that he might be seen to be the
lawful heir to the dignity, and no mere deputy doing another's work. Also, to omit no circumstance
of greatness, they further gave his the name of Odin, trying by the prestige of that title
to be rid of the obloquy of innovation. For nearly ten years Oller held the presidency of the
divine senate; but at last the gods pitied the horrible exile of Odin, and thought that he
had now been punished heavily enough; so he exchanged his foul and unsightly estate for his
ancient splendour; for the lapse of time had now wiped out the brand of his earlier disgrace.
Yet some were to be found who judged that he was not worthy to approach and resume his rank,
because by his stage-tricks and his assumption of a woman's work he had brought the foulest
scandal on the name of the gods. Some declare that he bought back the fortune of his lost divinity
with money; flattering some of the gods and mollifying some with bribes; and that at the cost
of a vast sum he contrived to get back to the distinction which he had long quitted. If you
ask how much he paid for them, inquire of those who have found out what is the price of a godhead.
I own that to me it is but little worth.

Thus Oller was driven out from Byzantium by Odin and retired into Sweden. Here, while he was
trying, as if in a new world, to repair the records of his glory, the Danes slew him. The story
goes that he was such a cunning wizard that he used a certain bone, which he had marked with
awful spells, wherewith to cross the seas, instead of a vessel; and that by this bone he passed
over the waters that barred his way as quickly as by rowing.

But Odin, now that he had regained the emblems of godhead, shone over all parts of the world
with such a lustre of renown that all nations welcomed him as though he were light restored
to the universe; nor was any spot to be found on the earth which did not hornage to his might.
Then finding that Boe, his son by Rhlda, was enamoured of the hardships of war, he called him,
and bade him bear in mind the slaying of his brother: saying that it would be better for him
to take vengeande on the murderers of Balder than to overcome them in battle; for warfare was
most fitting and wholesome when a holy occasion for waging it was furnished by a righteous
opening for vengeande.

News came meantime that Gewar had been slain by the guile of his own satrap (jarl), Gunne.
Hother determined to visit his murder with the strongest and sharpest revenge. So he surprised
Gunne, cast him on a blazing pyre, and burnt him; for Gunne had himself treacherously waylaid
Gewar, and burnt him alive in the night. This was his offering of vengeance to the shade of
his foster-father; and then he made his sons, Herlek and Gerit, rulers of Norway.

Then he summoned the elders to assembly, and told them that he would perish in the war wherein
he was bound to meet Boe, and said that he knew this by no doubtful guesswork, but by sure
prophecies of seers. So he besought them to make his son RORIK king, so that the judgment of
wicked men should not transfer the royalty to strange and unknown houses; averring that he
would reap more joy from the succession of his son than bitterness from his own impending death.
This request was speedily granted. Then he met Boe in battle and was killed; but small joy
the victory gave Boe. Indeed, he left the battle so sore stricken that he was lifted on his
shield and carried home by his foot-soldiers supporting him in turn, to perish next day of
the pain of his wounds. The Ruthenian army gave his body a gorgeous funeral and buried it in
a splendid howe, which it piled in his name, to save the record of so mighty a warrior from
slipping out of the recollection of after ages.

So the Kurlanders and the Swedes, as though the death of Hother set them free from the burden
of their subjection, resolved to attack Denmark, to which they were accustomed to do homage
with a yearly tax. By this the Slavs also were emboldened to revolt, and a number of others
were turned from subjects into foes. Rorik, in order to check this wrongdoing, summoned his
country to arms, recounted the deeds of his forefathers, and urged them in a passionate harangue
unto valorous deeds. But the barbarians, loth to engage without a general, and seeing that
they needed a head, appointed a king over them; and, displaying all the rest of their military
force, hid two companies of armed men in a dark spot. But Rorik saw the trap; and perceiving
that his fleet was wedged in a certain narrow creek among the shoal water, took it out from
the sands where it was lying, and brought it forth to sea; lest it should strike on the oozy
swamps, and be attacked by the foe on different sides. Also, he resolved that his men should
go into hiding during the day, where they could stay and suddenly fall on the invaders of his
ships. He said that perchance the guile might in the end recoil on the heads of its devisors.
And in fact the barbarians who had been appointed to the ambuscade knew nothing of the wariness
of the Danes, and sallying against them rashly, were all destroyed. The remaining force of
the Slavs, knowing nothing of the slaughter of their friends, hung in doubt wondering over
the reason of Rorik's tarrying. And after waiting long for him as the months wearily rolled
by, and finding delay every day more burdensome, they at last thought they should attack him
with their fleet.

Now among them there was a man of remarkable stature, a wizard by calling. He, when he beheld
the squadrons of the Danes, said: "Suffer a private combat to forestall a public slaughter,
so that the danger of many may be bought off at the cost of a few. And if any of you shall
take heart to fight it out with me, I will not flinch from these terms of conflict. But first
of all I demand that you accept the terms I prescribe, the form whereof I have devised as follows:
If I conquer, let freedom be granted us from taxes; if I am conquered, let the tribute be paid
you as of old: For to-day I will either free my country from the yoke of slavery by my victory
or bind her under it by my defeat. Accept me as the surety and the pledge for either issue."
One of the Danes, whose spirit was stouter than his strength, heard this, and proceeded to
ask Rorik, what would be the reward for the man who met the challenger in combat? Rorik chanced
to have six bracelets, which were so intertwined that they could not be parted from one another,
the chain of knots being inextricaly laced; and he promised them as a reward for the man who
would venture on the combat. But the youth, who doubted his fortune, said: "Rorik, if I prove
successful, let thy generosity award the prize of the conqueror, do thou decide and allot the
palm; but if my enterprise go little to my liking, what prize canst thou owe to the beaten,
who will be wrapped either in cruel death or in bitter shame? These things commonly go with
feebleness, these are the wages of the defeated, for whom naught remains but utter infamy.
What guerdon must be paid, what thanks offered, to him who lacks the prize of courage? Who
has ever garlanded with ivy the weakling in War, or decked him with a conqueror's wage? Valour
wins the prize, not sloth, and failure lacks renown. For one is followed by triumph and honour,
the other by an unsightly life or by a stagnant end. I, who know not which way the issue of
this duel inclines, dare not boldly anticipate that as a reward, of which I know not whether
it be rightly mine. For one whose victory is doubtful may not seize the assured reward of the
victor. I forbear, while I am not sure of the day, to claim firmly the title to the wreath.
I refuse the gain, which may be the wages of my death as much as of my life. It is folly to
lay hands on the fruit before it is ripe, and to be fain to pluck that which one is not yet
sure is one's title. This hand shall win me the prize, or death." Having thus spoken, he smote
the barbarian with his sword; but his fortune was tardier than his spirit; for the other smote
him back, and he fell dead under the force of the first blow. Thus he was a sorry sight unto
the Danes, but the Slavs granted their triumphant comrade a great procession, and received
him with splendid dances. On the morrow the same man, whether he was elated with the good fortune
of his late victory, or was fired with the wish to win another, came close to the enemy, and
set to girding at them in the words of his former challenge. For, supposing that he had laid
low the bravest of the Danes, he did not think that any of them would have any heart left to
fight further with him upon his challenge. Also, trusting that, now one champion had fallen,
he had shattered the strength of the whole army, he thought that naught would be hard to achieve
upon which his later endeavours were bent. For nothing pampers arrogance more than success,
or prompts to pride more surely than prosperity.

So Rorik was vexed that the general courage should be sapped by the impudence of one man; and
that the Danes, with their roll of victories, should be met presumptuously by those whom they
had beaten of old; nay, should be ignominiously spurned; further, that in all that host not
one man should be found so quick of spirit or so vigorous of arm, that he longed to sacrifice
his life for his country. It was the high-hearted Ubbe who first wiped off this infamous reproach
upon the hesitating Danes. For he was of great bodily strength and powerful in incantations.
He also purposely asked the prize of the combat, and the king promised him the bracelets. Then
said he: "How can I trust the promise when thou keepest the pledge in thine own hands, and
dost not deposit the gift in the charge of another? Let there be some one to whom thou canst
entrust the pledge, that thou mayst not be able to take thy promise back. For the courage of
the champion is kindled by the irrevocable certainty of the prize." Of course it was plain
that he had said this in jest; sheer courage had armed him to repel the insult to his country.
But Rorik thought he was tempted by avarice, and was loth to seem as if, contrary to royal
fashion, he meant to take back the gift or revoke his promise; so, being stationed on his vessel,
he resolved to shake off the bracelets, and with a mighty swing send them to the asker. But
his attempt was baulked by the width of the gap between them; for the bracelets fell short
of the intended spot, the impulse being too faint and slack, and were reft away by the waters.
For this nickname of Slyngebond, (swing-bracelet) clung to Rorik. But this event testified
much to the valour of Ubbe. For the loss of his drowned prize never turned his mind from his
bold venture; he would not seem to let his courage be tempted by the wages of covetousness.
So he eagerly went to fight, showing that he was a seeker of honour and not the slave of lucre,
and that he set bravery before lust of pelf; and intent to prove that his confidence was based
not on hire, but on his own great soul. Not a moment is lost; a ring is made; the course is
thronged with soldiers; the champions engage; a din arises; the crowd of onlookers shouts in
discord, each backing his own. And so the valour of the champions blazes to white-heat; falling
dead under the wounds dealt by one another, they end together the combat and their lives. I
think that it was a provision of fortune that neither of them should reap joy and honour by
the other's death. This event won back to Rorik the hearts of the insurgents and regained him
the tribute.

At this time Horwendil and Feng, whose father Gerwendil had been governor of the Jutes, were
appointed in his place by Rorik to defend Jutland. But Horwendil held the monarchy for three
years, and then, to will the height of glory, devoted himself to roving. Then Koller, King
of Norway, in rivalry of his great deeds and renown, deemed it would be a handsome deed if
by his greater strength in arms he could bedim the far-famed glory of the rover; and cruising
about the sea, he watched for Horwendil's fleet and came up with it. There was an island lying
in the middle of the sea, which each of the rovers, bringing his ships up on either side, was
holding. The captains were tempted by the pleasant look of the beach, and the comeliness of
the shores led them to look through the interior of the springtide woods, to go through the
glades, and roam over the sequestered forests. It was here that the advance of Koller and Horwendil
brought them face to face without any witness. Then Horwendil endeavoured to address the king
first, asking him in what way it was his pleasure to fight, and declaring that one best which
needed the courage of as few as possible. For, said he, the duel was the surest of all modes
of combat for winning the meed of bravery, because it relied only upon native courage, and
excluded all help from the hand of another. Koller marvelled at so brave a judgment in a youth,
and said: "Since thou hast granted me the choice of battle, I think it is best to employ that
kind which needs only the endeavours of two, and is free from all the tumult. Certainly it
is more venturesome, and allows of a speedier award of the victory. This thought we share,
in this opinion we agree of our own accord. But since the issue remains doubtful, we must pay
some regard to gentle dealing, and must not give way so far to our inclinations as to leave
the last offices undone. Hatred is in our hearts; yet let piety be there also, which in its
due time may take the place of rigour. For the rights of nature reconcile us, though we are
parted by differences of purpose; they link us together, howsoever rancour estrange our spirit.
Let us, therefore, have this pious stipulation, that the conqueror shall give funeral rites
to the conquered. For all allow that these are the last duties of human kind, from which no
righteous man shrinks. Let each army lay aside its sternness and perform this function in harmony.
Let jealousy depart at death, let the feud be buried in the tomb. Let us not show such an example
of cruelty as to persecute one another's dust, though hatred has come between us in our lives.
It will be a boast for the victor if he has borne his beaten foe in a lordly funeral. For the
man who pays the rightful dues over his dead enemy wins the goodwill of the survivor; and whoso
devotes gentle dealing to him who is no more, conquers the living by his kindness. Also there
is another disaster, not less lamentable, which sometimes befalls the living--the loss of some
part of their body; and I think that succor is due to this just as much as to the worst hap
that may befall. For often those who fight keep their lives safe, but suffer maiming; and this
lot is commonly thought more dismal than any death; for death cuts off memory of all things,
while the living cannot forget the devastation of his own body. Therefore this mischief also
must be helped somehow; so let it be agreed, that the injury of either of us by the other shall
be made good with ten talents (marks) of gold. For if it be righteous to have compassion on
the calamities of another, how much more is it to pity one's own? No man but obeys nature's
prompting; and he who slights it is a self-murderer."

After mutually pledging their faiths to these terms, they began the battle. Nor was their strangeness
his meeting one another, nor the sweetness of that spring-green spot, so heeded as to prevent
them from the fray. Horwendil, in his too great ardour, became keener to attack his enemy than
to defend his own body; and, heedless of his shield, had grasped his sword with both hands;
and his boldness did not fail. For by his rain of blows he destroyed Koller's shield and deprived
him of it, and at last hewed off his foot and drove him lifeless to the ground. Then, not to
fail of his compact, he buried him royally, gave him a howe of lordly make and pompous obsequies.
Then he pursued and slew Koller's sister Sela, who was a skilled warrior and experienced in roving.

He had now passed three years in valiant deeds of war; and, in order to win higher rank in
Rorik's favour, he assigned to him the best trophies and the pick of the plunder. His friendship
with Rorik enabled him to woo and will in marriage his daughter Gerutha, who bore him a son Amleth.

Such great good fortune stung Feng with jealousy, so that he resolved treacherously to waylay
his brother, thus showing that goodness is not safe even from those of a man's own house. And
behold, when a chance came to murder him, his bloody hand sated the deadly passion of his soul.
Then he took the wife of the brother he had butchered, capping unnatural murder with incest.
For whoso yields to one iniquity, speedily falls an easier victim to the next, the first being
an incentive to the second. Also, the man veiled the monstrosity of his deed with such hardihood
of cunning, that he made up a mock pretence of goodwill to excuse his crime, and glossed over
fratricide with a show of righteousness. Gerutha, said he, though so gentle that she would
do no man the slightest hurt, had been visited with her husband's extremest hate; and it was
all to save her that he had slain his brother; for he thought it shameful that a lady so meek
and unrancorous should suffer the heavy disdain of her husband. Nor did his smooth words fail
in their intent; for at courts, where fools are sometimes favoured and backbiters preferred,
a lie lacks not credit. Nor did Feng keep from shameful embraces the hands that had slain a
brother; pursuing with equal guilt both of his wicked and impious deeds.

Amleth beheld all this, but feared lest too shrewd a behaviour might make his uncle suspect
him. So he chose to feign dulness, and pretend an utter lack of wits. This cunning course not
only concealed his intelligence but ensured his safety. Every day he remained in his mother's
house utterly listless and unclean, flinging himself on the ground and bespattering his person
with foul and filthy dirt. His discoloured face and visage smutched with slime denoted foolish
and grotesque madness. All he said was of a piece with these follies; all he did savoured of
utter lethargy. In a word, you would not have thought him a man at all, but some absurd abortion
due to a mad fit of destiny. He used at times to sit over the fire, and, raking up the embers
with his hands, to fashion wooden crooks, and harden them in the fire, shaping at their lips
certain barbs, to make them hold more tightly to their fastenings. When asked what he was about,
he said that he was preparing sharp javelins to avenge his father. This answer was not a little
scoffed at, all men deriding his idle and ridiculous pursuit; but the thing helped his purpose
afterwards. Now it was his craft in this matter that first awakened in the deeper observers
a suspicion of his cunning. For his skill in a trifling art betokened the hidden talent of
the craftsman; nor could they believe the spirit dull where the hand had acquired so cunning
a workmanship. Lastly, he always watched with the most punctual care over his pile of stakes
that he had pointed in the fire. Some people, therefore, declared that his mind was quick enough,
and fancied that he only played the simpleton in order to hide his understanding, and veiled
some deep purpose under a cunning feint. His wiliness (said these) would be most readily detected,
if a fair woman were put in his way in some secluded place, who should provoke his mind to
the temptations of love; all men's natural temper being too blindly amorous to be artfully
dissembled, and this passion being also too impetuous to be checked by cunning. Therefore,
if his lethargy were feigned, he would seize the opportunity, and yield straightway to violent
delights. So men were commissioned to draw the young man in his rides into a remote part of
the forest, and there assail him with a temptation of this nature. Among these chanced to be
a foster-brother of Amleth, who had not ceased to have regard to their common nurture; and
who esteemed his present orders less than the memory of their past fellowship. He attended
Amleth among his appointed train, being anxious not to entrap, but to warn him; and was persuaded
that he would suffer the worst if he showed the slightest glimpse of sound reason, and above
all if he did the act of love openly. This was also plain enough to Amleth himself. For when
he was bidden mount his horse, he deliberately set himself in such a fashion that he turned
his back to the neck and faced about, fronting the tail; which he proceeded to encompass with
the reins, just as if on that side he would check the horse in its furious pace. By this cunning
thought he eluded the trick, and overcame the treachery of his uncle. The reinless steed galloping
on, with rider directing its tail, was ludicrous enough to behold.

Amleth went on, and a wolf crossed his path amid the thicket. When his companions told him
that a young colt had met him, he retorted, that in Feng's stud there were too few of that
kind fighting. This was a gentle but witty fashion of invoking a curse upon his uncle's riches.
When they averred that he had given a cunning answer, he answered that he had spoken deliberately;
for he was loth, to be thought prone to lying about any matter, and wished to be held a stranger
to falsehood; and accordingly he mingled craft and candour in such wise that, though his words
did lack truth, yet there was nothing to betoken the truth and betray how far his keenness went.

Again, as he passed along the beach, his companions found the rudder of a ship, which had been
wrecked, and said they had discovered a huge knife. "This," said he, "was the right thing to
carve such a huge ham;" by which he really meant the sea, to whose infinitude, he thought,
this enormous rudder matched. Also, as they passed the sandhills, and bade him look at the
meal, meaning the sand, he replied that it had been ground small by the hoary tempests of the
ocean. His companions praising his answer, he said that he had spoken it wittingly. Then they
purposely left him, that he might pluck up more courage to practise wantonness. The woman whom
his uncle had dispatched met him in a dark spot, as though she had crossed him by chance; and
he took her and would have ravished her, had not his foster-brother, by a secret device, given
him an inkling of the trap. For this man, while pondering the fittest way to play privily the
prompter's part, and forestall the young man's hazardous lewdness, found a straw on the ground
and fastened it underneath the tail of a gadfly that was flying past; which he then drove towards
the particular quarter where he knew Amleth to be: an act which served the unwary prince exceedingly
well. The token was interpreted as shrewdly as it had been sent. For Amleth saw the gadfly,
espied with curiosity the straw which it wore embedded in its tail, and perceived that it was
a secret warning to beware of treachery. Alarmed, scenting a trap, and fain to possess his
desire in greater safety, he caught up the woman in his arms and dragged her off to a distant
and impenetrable fen. Moreover, when they had lain together, he conjured her earnestly to disclose
the matter to none, and the promise of silence was accorded as heartily as it was asked. For
both of them had been under the same fostering in their childhood; and this early rearing in
common had brought Amleth and the girl into great intimacy.

So, when he had returned home, they all jeeringly asked him whether he had given way to love,
and he avowed that he had ravished the maid. When he was next asked where he did it, and what
had been his pillow, he said that he had rested upon the hoof of a beast of burden, upon a
cockscomb, and also upon a ceiling. For, when he was starting into temptation, he had gathered
fragments of all these things, in order to avoid lying. And though his jest did not take aught
of the truth out of the story, the answer was greeted with shouts of merriment from the bystanders.
The maiden, too, when questioned on the matter, declared that he had done no such thing; and
her denial was the more readily credited when it was found that the escort had not witnessed
the deed. Then he who had marked the gadfly in order to give a hint, wishing to show Amleth
that to his trick he owed his salvation, observed that latterly he had been singly devoted
to Amleth. The young man's reply was apt. Not to seem forgetful of his informant's service,
he said that he had seen a certain thing bearing a straw flit by suddenly, wearing a stalk
of chaff fixed in its hinder parts. The cleverness of this speech, which made the rest split
with laughter, rejoiced the heart of Amleth's friend.

Thus all were worsted, and none could open the secret lock of the young man's wisdom. But a
friend of Feng, gifted more with assurance than judgment, declared that the unfathomable cunning
of such a mind could not be detected by any vulgar plot, for the man's obstinacy was so great
that it ought not to be assailed with any mild measures; there were many sides to his wiliness,
and it ought not to be entrapped by any one method. Accordingly, said he, his own profounder
acuteness had hit on a more delicate way, which was well fitted to be put in practice, and
would effectually discover what they desired to know. Feng was purposely to absent himself,
pretending affairs of great import. Amleth should be closeted alone with his mother in her
chamber; but a man should first be commissioned to place himself in a concealed part of the
room and listen heedfully to what they talked about. For if the son had any wits at all he
would not hesitate to speak out in the hearing of his mother, or fear to trust himself to the
fidelity of her who bore him. The speaker, loth to seem readier to devise than to carry out
the plot, zealously proffered himself as the agent of the eavesdropping. Feng rejoiced at the
scheme, and departed on pretence of a long journey. Now he who had given this counsel repaired
privily to the room where Amleth was shut up with his mother, and lay flown skulking in the
straw. But Amleth had his antidote for the treachery. Afraid of being overheard by some eavesdropper,
he at first resorted to his usual imbecile ways, and crowed like a noisy cock, beating his
arms together to mimic the flapping of wings. Then he mounted the straw and began to swing
his body and jump again and again, wishing to try if aught lurked there in hiding. Feeling
a lump beneath his feet, he drove his sword into the spot, and impaled him who lay hid. Then
he dragged him from his concealment and slew him. Then, cutting his body into morsels, he seethed
it in boiling water, and flung it through the mouth of an open sewer for the swine to eat,
bestrewing the stinking mire with his hapless limbs. Having in this wise eluded the snare,
he went back to the room. Then his mother set up a great wailing, and began to lament her son's
folly to his face; but he said: "Most infamous of women; dost thou seek with such lying lamentations
to hide thy most heavy guilt? Wantoning like a harlot, thou hast entered a wicked and abominable
state of wedlock, embracing with incestuous bosom thy husband's slayer, and wheedling with
filthy lures of blandishment him who had slain the father of thy son. This, forsooth, is the
way that the mares couple with the vanquishers of their mates; for brute beasts are naturally
incited to pair indiscriminately; and it would seem that thou, like them, hast clean forgot
thy first husband. As for me, not idly do I wear the mask of folly; for I doubt not that he
who destroyed his brother will riot as ruthlessly in the blood of his kindred. Therefore it
is better to choose the garb of dulness than that of sense, and to borrow some protection from
a show of utter frenzy. Yet the passion to avenge my father still burns in my heart; but I
am watching the chances, I await the fitting hour. There is a place for all things; against
so merciless and dark spirit must be used the deeper devices of the mind. And thou, who hadst
been better employed in lamenting thine own disgrace, know it is superfluity to bewail my witlessness;
thou shouldst weep for the blemish in thine own mind, not for that in another's. On the rest
see thou keep silence." With such reproaches he rent the heart of his mother and redeemed her
to walk in the ways of virtue; teaching her to set the fires of the past above the seductions
of the present.

When Feng returned, nowhere could he find the man who had suggested the treacherous espial;
he searched for him long and carefully, but none said they had seen him anywhere. Amleth, among
others, was asked in jest if he had come on any trace of him, and replied that the man had
gone to the sewer, but had fallen through its bottom and been stifled by the floods of filth,
and that he had then been devoured by the swine that came up all about that place. This speech
was flouted by those who heard; for it seemed senseless, though really it expressly avowed
the truth.

Feng now suspected that his stepson was certainly full of guile, and desired to make away with
him, but durst not do the deed for fear of the displeasure, not only of Amleth's grandsire
Rorik, but also of his own wife. So he thought that the King of Britain should be employed
to slay him, so that another could do the deed, and he be able to feign innocence. Thus, desirous
to hide his cruelty, he chose rather to besmirch his friend than to bring disgrace on his own
head. Amleth, on departing, gave secret orders to his mother to hang the hall with woven knots,
and to perform pretended obsequies for him a year thence; promising that he would then return.
Two retainers of Feng then accompanied him, bearing a letter graven on wood--a kind of writing
material frequent in old times; this letter enjoined the king of the Britons to put to death
the youth who was sent over to him. While they were reposing, Amleth searched their coffers,
found the letter, and read the instructions therein. Whereupon he erased all the writing on
the surface, substituted fresh characters, and so, changing the purport of the instructions,
shifted his own doom upon his companions. Nor was he satisfied with removing from himself the
sentence of death and passing the peril on to others, but added an entreaty that the King of
Britain would grant his daughter in marriage to a youth of great judgment whom he was sending
to him. Under this was falsely marked the signature of Feng.

Now when they had reached Britain, the envoys went to the king, and proffered him the letter
which they supposed was an implement of destruction to another, but which really betokened
death to themselves. The king dissembled the truth, and entreated them hospitably and kindly.
Then Amleth scouted all the splendour of the royal banquet like vulgar viands, and abstaining
very strangely, rejected that plenteous feast, refraining from the drink even as from the banquet.
All marvelled that a youth and a foreigner should disdain the carefully cooked dainties of
the royal board and the luxurious banquet provided, as if it were some peasant's relish. So,
when the revel broke up, and the king was dismissing his friends to rest, he had a man sent
into the sleeping-room to listen secretly, in order that he might hear the midnight conversation
of his guests. Now, when Amleth's companions asked him why he had refrained from the feast
of yestereve, as if it were poison, he answered that the bread was flecked with blood and tainted;
that there was a tang of iron in the liquor; while the meats of the feast reeked of the stench
of a human carcase, and were infected by a kind of smack of the odour of the charnel. He further
said that the king had the eyes of a slave, and that the queen had in three ways shown the
behaviour of a bondmaid. Thus he reviled with insulting invective not so much the feast as
its givers. And presently his companions, taunting him with his old defect of wits, began to
flout him with many saucy jeers, because he blamed and cavilled at seemly and worthy things,
and because he attacked thus ignobly an illustrious king and a lady of so refined a behaviour,
bespattering with the shamefullest abuse those who merited all praise.

All this the king heard from his retainer; and declared that he who could say such things had
either more than mortal wisdom or more than mortal folly; in these few words fathoming the
full depth of Amleth's penetration. Then he summoned his steward and asked him whence he had
procured the bread. The steward declared that it had been made by the king's own baker. The
king asked where the corn had grown of which it was made, and whether any sign was to be found
there of human carnage? The other answered, that not far off was a field, covered with the
ancient bones of slaughtered men, and still bearing plainly all the signs of ancient carnage;
and that he had himself planted this field with grain in springtide, thinking it more fruitful
than the rest, and hoping for plenteous abundance; and so, for aught he knew, the bread had
caught some evil savour from this bloodshed. The king, on hearing this, surmised that Amleth
had spoken truly, and took the pains to learn also what had been the source of the lard. The
other declared that his hogs had, through negligence, strayed from keeping, and battened on
the rotten carcase of a robber, and that perchance their pork had thus come to have something
of a corrupt smack. The king, finding that Amletll's judgment was right in this thing also,
asked of what liquor the steward had mixed the drink? Hearing that it had been brewed of water
and meal, he had the spot of the spring pointed out to him, and set to digging deep down; and
there he found, rusted away, several swords, the tang whereof it was thought had tainted the
waters. Others relate that Amleth blamed the drink because, while quaffing it, he had detected
some bees that had fed in the paunch of a dead man; and that the taint, which had formerly
been imparted to the combs, had reappeared in the taste. The king, seeing that Amleth had rightly
given the causes of the taste he had found so faulty, and learning that the ignoble eyes wherewith
Amleth had reproached him concerned some stain upon his birth, had a secret interview with
his mother, and asked her who his father had really been. She said she had submitted to no
man but the king. But when he threatened that he would have the truth out of her by a trial,
he was told that he was the offspring of a slave. By the evidence of the avowal thus extorted
he understood the whole mystery of the reproach upon his origin. Abashed as he was with shame
for his low estate, he was so ravished with the young man's cleverness, that he asked him why
he had aspersed the queen with the reproach that she had demeaned herself like a slave? But
while resenting that the courtliness of his wife had been accused in the midnight gossip of
guest, he found that her mother had been a bondmaid. For Amleth said he had noted in her three
blemishes showing the demeanor of a slave; first, she had muffled her head in her mantle as
handmaids do; next, that she had gathered up her gown for walking; and thirdly, that she had
first picked out with a splinter, and then chewed up, the remnant of food that stuck in the
crevices between her teeth. Further, he mentioned that the king's mother had been brought into
slavery from captivity, lest she should seem servile only in her habits, yet not in her birth.

Then the king adored the wisdom of Amleth as though it were inspired, and gave him his daughter
to wife; accepting his bare word as though it were a witness from the skies. Moreover, in order
to fulfil the bidding of his friend, he hanged Amleth's companions on the morrow. Amleth, feigning
offence, treated this piece of kindness as a grievance, and received from the king, as compensation,
some gold, which he afterwards melted in the fire, and secretly caused to be poured into some
hollowed sticks.

When he had passed a whole year with the king he obtained leave to make a journey, and returned
to his own land, carrying away of all his princely wealth and state only the sticks which held
the gold. On reaching Jutland, he exchanged his present attire for his ancient demeanour, which
he had adopted for righteous ends, purposely assuming an aspect of absurdity. Covered with
filth, he entered the banquet-room where his own obsequies were being held, and struck all
men utterly aghast, rumour having falsely noised abroad his death. At last terror melted into
mirth, and the guests jeered and taunted one another, that he whose last rites they were celebrating
as through he were dead, should appear in the flesh. When he was asked concerning his comrades,
he pointed to the sticks he was carrying, and said, "Here is both the one and the other." This
he observed with equal truth and pleasantry; for his speech, though most thought it idle, yet
departed not from the truth; for it pointed at the weregild of the slain as though it were
themselves. Thereon, wishing to bring the company into a gayer mood, he jollied the cupbearers,
and diligently did the office of plying the drink. Then, to prevent his loose dress hampering
his walk, he girdled his sword upon his side, and purposely drawing it several times, pricked
his fingers with its point. The bystanders accordingly had both sword and scabbard riveted
across with all iron nail. Then, to smooth the way more safely to his plot, he went to the
lords and plied them heavily with draught upon draught, and drenched them all so deep in wine,
that their feet were made feeble with drunkenness, and they turned to rest within the palace,
making their bed where they had revelled. Then he saw they were in a fit state for his plots,
and thought that here was a chance offered to do his purpose. So he took out of his bosom the
stakes he has long ago prepared, and went into the building, where the ground lay covered with
the bodies of the nobles wheezing off their sleep and their debauch. Then, cutting away its
support, he brought down the hanging his mother had knitted, which covered the inner as well
as the outer walls of the hall. This he flung upon the snorers, and then applying the crooked
stakes, he knotted and bound them up in such insoluble intricacy, that not one of the men beneath,
however hard he might struggle, could contrive to rise. After this he set fire to the palace.
The flames spread, scattering the conflagration far and wide. It enveloped the whole dwelling,
destroyed the palace, and burnt them all while they were either buried in deep sleep or vainly
striving to arise. Then he went to the chamber of Feng, who had before this been conducted
by his train into his pavilion; plucked up a sword that chanced to be hanging to the bed, and
planted his own in its place. Then, awakening his uncle, he told him that his nobles were perishing
in the flames, and that Amleth was here, armed with his crooks to help him, and thirsting to
exact the vengeance, now long overdue, for his father's murder. Feng, on hearing this, leapt
from his couch, but was cut down while deprived of his own sword, and as he strove in vain
to draw the strange one. O valiant Amleth, and worthy of immortal fame, who being shrewdly
armed with a feint of folly, covered a wisdom too high for human wit under a marvellous disguise
of silliness! And not only found in his subtlety means to protect his own safety, but also
by its guidance found opportunity to avenge his father. By this skilful defence of himself,
and strenuous revenge for his parent, he has left it doubtful whether we are to think more
of his wit or his bravery. (3)

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  Saxo now goes back to the history of Denmark.  All the
     events hitherto related in Bk. III, after the first
     paragraph, are a digression in retrospect.
     (2)  M. conjectures that this was a certain Harald, the bastard
     son of Erik the Good, and a wild and dissolute man, who died
     in 1135, not long before the probable date of Saxo's birth.
     (3)  Shakespere's tragedy, "Hamlet", is derived from this story.

BOOK FOUR.

Amleth, when he had accomplished the slaughter of his stepfather, feared to expose his deed
to the fickle judgment of his countrymen, and thought it well to lie in hiding till he had
learnt what way the mob of the uncouth populace was tending. So the whole neighbourhood, who
had watched the blaze during the night, and in the morning desired to know the cause of the
fire they had seen, perceived the royal palace fallen in ashes; and, on searching through its
ruins, which were yet warm, found only some shapeless remains of burnt corpses. For the devouring
flame had consumed everything so utterly that not a single token was left to inform them of
the cause of such a disaster. Also they saw the body of Feng lying pierced by the sword, amid
his blood-stained raiment. Some were seized with open anger, others with grief, and some with
secret delight. One party bewailed the death of their leader, the other gave thanks that the
tyranny of the fratricide was now laid at rest. Thus the occurrence of the king's slaughter
was greeted by the beholders with diverse minds.

