CORRESPONDENCE OF WAGNER AND LISZT, VOLUME 2

143.

DEAREST RICHARD,

Yesterday (Saturday, January 7th) first performance of "Lohengrin" at Leipzig. The public,
very numerous in spite of double prices, displayed much sympathy and admiration for this wonderful
work. The first act went tolerably well as far as the artists were concerned. Rietz conducted
in a precise and decent manner, and the ENSEMBLES had been carefully studied. The second and
third acts, however, suffered much from the faults and shortcomings of both chorus and principals.
Further performances will, no doubt, show an improvement, although the Leipzig theatre does
certainly not possess the proper singers and scenic artists. The flagging in the second act,
which I previously took the liberty of pointing out to you, was felt very much on this occasion,
and the public seemed painfully and unmistakably tired. The tempi of the choruses seemed to
me considerably too fast, and there was more than one break-down in this scene. Altogether,
without self-conceit, I may say that the Leipzig performance is inferior to ours, as you will
probably hear from other quarters. On the other hand the Leipzig public is in many respects
superior to ours, and I feel convinced that the external success of yesterday's performance
will prove very considerable indeed. The grand success of this work can no longer be denied;
of that we should be glad, and the rest will follow sooner or later. The actors, Rietz and
Wirsing, were called after the first act, and after the last the representatives of the principal
parts had to appear again. T., who had come from Paris for this performance, was very dissatisfied
with it. I toned him down, not thinking it advisable to impair the chief thing by detailed
criticism. Before all, let it be stated that "Lohengrin" is the grandest work of art which
we possess so far, and that the Leipzig theatre by performing it has done credit to itself.

If you have to write to Leipzig show yourself, to please me, friendly and appreciative of their
goodwill, and of the success which cannot be denied. The only remark you might make concerns
the quick tempo of the choruses in Act II., Scene iii., and of the "Lohengrin" passage in the
third act

[Here, Liszt illustrates with  a 4-bar musical score example where the words, "Ath----mest
Du   nicht die su--ssen Dufte" are sung.]

as compared with YOUR METRONOMIC INDICATION. This is the more necessary as the chorus practically
broke down, and these passages failed to produce their due effect.

On the next birthday of the Grand Duchess (April 8th) "Lohengrin" will be given here, with
Gotze (at present professor of singing at the Leipzig Conservatoire, late first tenor of this
theatre) and Frau Fastlinger, and about the middle of May Tichatschek will sing the part here
twice. Zigesar has also asked X. to sing Ortrud, and has offered her as well as Tichatschek
very decent terms, but her answer is somewhat vague and undecided: "Unless I have to go to
England at that time," etc.

Tichatschek is again behaving splendidly on this occasion, and I thank you for the few friendly
lines you have written to him, for he really deserves it by his warm friendship for you and
your works. He came to Leipzig together with Krebs, and during the entr'acte we met at the
buffet, when he told me that you had written to him, which I was very glad to hear. The Hartels
have sent you three hundred thalers for the nine pieces from "Lohengrin."

Farewell, and let me soon hear from you.

Your

FRANZ.

January 8th, 1854.

144.

DEAREST FRIEND,

The "Rhinegold" is done, but I also am done for. Latterly I had intentionally dulled my feeling
by means of work, and avoided every opportunity of writing to you before its completion. Today
is the first forenoon when no pretext prevents me any longer from letting the long-nourished
and pent-up grief break forth. Let it break forth, then. I can restrain it no longer.

In addition to your very kindly notice of the Leipzig "Lohengrin," I also received that of
the "Deutsche Allgemeine"

Zeitung, and discover in it the scornful punishment inflicted upon me for the crime I committed
against my being and my inmost conscience when, two years ago, I became unfaithful to my rightful
determination and consented to the performance of my operas. Alas! how pure and consistent
with myself was I when I thought only of you and Weimar, ignored all other theatres, and entirely
relinquished the hope of any further success.

Well, that is over now. I have abandoned my purpose, my pride has vanished, and I am reduced
to humbly bending my neck under the yoke of Jews and Philistines.

But the infamous part is that by betraying the noblest thing in my possession I have not even
secured the prize which was to be the equivalent. I remain, after all, the beggar I was before.

Dearest Franz, none of my latter years has passed without bringing me at least once to the
verge of the resolution to put an end to my life. Everything seems so waste, so lost! Dearest
friend, art with me, after all, is a pure stop-gap, nothing else, a stop-gap in the literal
sense of the word. I have to stop the gap by its means in order to live at all. It is therefore
with genuine despair that I always resume art; if I am to do this, if I am to dive into the
waves of artistic fancy in order to find contentment in a world of imagination, my fancy should
at least be buoyed up, my imagination supported. I cannot live like a dog; I cannot sleep on
straw and drink bad whisky. I must be coaxed in one way or another if my mind is to accomplish
the terribly difficult task of creating a non-existing world. Well, when I resumed the plan
of the "Nibelungen" and its actual execution, many things had to co-operate in order to produce
in me the necessary, luxurious art-mood. I had to adopt a better style of life than before;
the success of "Tannhauser," which I had surrendered solely in this hope, was to assist me.
I made my domestic arrangements on a new scale; I wasted (good Lord, wasted!) money on one
or the other requirement of luxury. Your visit in the summer, your example, everything, tempted
me to a forcibly cheerful deception, or rather desire of deception, as to my circumstances.
My income seemed to me an infallible thing. But after my return from Paris my situation again
became precarious; the expected orders for my operas, and especially for "Lohengrin," did not
come in; and as the year approaches its close I realise that I shall want much, very much,
money in order to live in my nest a little longer. I begin to feel anxious. I write to you
about the sale of my rights to the Hartels; that comes to nothing. I write to Berlin to my
theatrical agent there. He gives me hopes of a good purchaser, whom I refer to the first performance
of "Lohengrin" at Leipzig. Well, this has taken place, and now my agent writes that after such
a success he has found it impossible to induce the purchaser to conclude the bargain, willing
as he had previously been.

Confess that this is something like a situation. And all this torture, and trouble, and care
about a life which I hate, which I curse! And, in addition to this, I appear ridiculous before
my visitors, and taste the delightful sensation of having surrendered the noblest work of my
life so far to the predetermined stupidity of our theatrical mob and to the laughter of the
Philistine.

Lord, how must I appear to myself? I wish that at least I had the satisfaction that some one
knew how I appear to myself.

Listen, my Franz; you must help me! I am in a bad, a very bad, way. If I am to regain the faculty
of holding out (this word means much to me), something thorough must be done in the direction
of prostituting my art which I have once taken, otherwise all is over with me. Have you thought
of Berlin again? Something must be done there if all is not to come to a stop.

Before all, I must have money. The Hartels have been very liberal, but what is the good of
hundreds where thousands are needed? If the Berlin purchase had come to something, I might
at least have used the offer in order to prove to a man of business here that I possessed "capital,"
and to induce him to lend me the necessary sum for three years, paying back one-third every
year. But this hope also has vanished. No one will undertake such an affair unless he has personal
confidence in my future (?) successes. Such a man, dearest Franz, you must find for me. Once
more, I want from 3,000 to 4,000 thalers in order to find perfect rest and equipoise. That
much my operas may well bring me in in three years IN CASE something real is done for "Lohengrin,"
so as to save it. I am willing to lease my rights to the lender; my rights in "Tannhauser"
and "Lohengrin" shall be secured to him in any way he thinks desirable or necessary. If I am
not worthy of such a service, then you must own that I am in a bad way, and all has been a
mistake! Help me over this, and I will undertake once more to hold out.

Dear friend, do not be angry. I have a claim on you as on my creator. You are the creator of
the person I am now; I live through you: it is no exaggeration. Take care of your creation.
I call this a duty which you have towards me.

The only thing I want is money; that at least one ought to be able to get. Love I abandon, and art!

Well, the "Rhinegold" is ready, readier than I ever thought it would be. I went to this music
with so much faith, so much joy; and with a true fury of despair I continued, and have at last
finished it. Alas! the need of gold held me too in its net. Believe me, no one ever has composed
in this manner; my music, it seems to me, must be terrible; it is a slough of horrors and sublimities.

I shall soon make a clean copy, black on white, and that will probably be the end of it; or
shall I give permission to have this also performed at Leipzig for twenty louis d'or? I cannot
write more to you today. You are the only person to whom I could tell such a thing; no one
else has an idea of it, least of all the people near me.

Do not think that the news of Leipzig has made me suddenly desperate. I anticipated this, and
knew everything beforehand. I can also imagine that the Leipzig failure may still be repaired,
that "it is not as bad as we think," and much more to the same effect. It may be, but let me
see evidence. I have no faith, and only one hope: sleep, sleep, so profound, so profound, that
all sensation of the pain of living ceases. That sleep at least is within my reach; it is not
so difficult to get.

Good heavens, I give you bad blood as well! Why did you ever come across me?

The present of the Princess caused me a smile,--a smile over which I could shed tears. I shall
write to her when I have lived through a few more days; then I shall also send you my portrait,
with a motto, which might make you feel awkward after all. How are you? Burn this letter: it
is godless; but I too am godless. Be you God's saint, for in you alone I still have faith.
Yea! yea! and once more yea!

Your

R. W.

January 15th, 1854

Something must be done in London; I will even go to America to satisfy my future creditor;
this too I offer, so that I may finish my "Nibelungen."

145.

My dearest Franz,

I write once more to try whether I can ease my heart a little.

Dearest friend, this continual suffering is becoming at last intolerable. Always to submit
to things, never, even at the risk of one's own perdition, to give a turn to the wheel of suffering
and to determine its direction--that must at last rouse the meekest of men to revolt. I must
now act, do something. Again and again the thought comes to me of retiring to some distant
corner of the world, although I know full well that this would mean only FLIGHT, not the conquest
of a new life, for I am too LONELY. But I must at least begin something that will make my life,
such as it is, sufficiently tolerable to enable me to devote myself to the execution and completion
of my work, which alone can divert my thoughts and give me comfort. While here I chew a beggar's
crust, I hear from Boston that "Wagner nights" are given there. Every one persuades me to come
over; they are occupying themselves with me with increasing interest; I might make much money
there by concert performances, etc. "Make much MONEY!" Heavens! I don't want to make money
if I can go the way shown to me by my longing. But if I really were to undertake something
of this kind, I should even then not know how to get with decency out of my new arrangements
here in order to go where I could make money. And how should I feel there?

Alas! this is so impossible that the impossibility is equalled only by the ridiculous position
into which I sink when I commence brooding over the possibility of the plan. My work, my "Nibelungen,"
would then of course be out of the question.

This WORK is truly the only thing which still ties me to the desire of life. When I think of
sacrifices and demand sacrifices, it is for this work; in it alone I discover an object of
my life. For its sake I must hold out, and hold out here, where I have got a foothold, and
have settled down to work. If I consider it rightly, all my intended action can only have the
object of enabling me to hold out till the completion of my work. But for that very reason
I can DO nothing; all must be done by OTHERS. On that account I latterly again felt the liveliest
desire to obtain my amnesty, and thus to gain free access to Germany. In that case I might
at least be active in helping on the performances of my operas. I might at last produce "Lohengrin"
myself, while as it is I torture myself for the sake of it. The most necessary thing for the
moment seems to me to repair the Leipzig disaster; I was on the point of venturing there without
passport and of endangering my personal liberty (good God! "liberty!" What irony!). In calmer
moments I intended to write to the King of Saxony, till this also appeared quite useless and
even dishonourable to me. Then again, as lately as last night, I thought of writing to the
Grand Duke to explain my new situation to him and to ask him for his energetic intercession
at Dresden. But this morning early I came to think that this also would be in vain, and probably
you agree with me. Where can ENERGY and real WILL be found? Everything has to be done by halves,
quarters, or even tenths or twelfths, a la X.

So I sit down again, cross my arms, and surrender myself to pure, unalloyed SUFFERING. I can
do nothing, except create my "Nibelungen"; and even that I am unable to do without great and
energetic help.

My dearest, my only friend, listen. I CAN do nothing unless others do it for me. The sale of
the rights of my operas must be brought about, unless I am to free myself from my situation
by violent means. In the way of pure business this has become impossible by the Leipzig performance,
which, if my wish and my conditions had been observed, would not have taken place; it must
be simply a work of friendship. To no one but you can I explain myself accurately, because
you are the only one who can understand at its true estimate, and without a shake of the head,
my position, such as it has been brought about by my moods, inclinations, whims, and wants.
How can I expect a Philistine to comprehend the transcendent part of my nature, which in the
conditions of my life impelled me to satisfy an immense inner desire by such external means
as must to him appear dangerous, and certainly unsympathetic? No one knows the needs of people
like us; I am my self frequently surprised at considering so many "useless" things indispensable.
To YOU alone can I explain how painfully I am placed, and how necessary immediate help is to
me. This is the first and most indispensable thing to preserve me for my whole future. Owing
to my extreme sensitiveness in this matter, I shall otherwise be compelled--because for such
a frivolous reason I do not want to take my own life--to start at once and fly to America.

I am in a pitiful condition, and I know that to such a friend as you pity comes from love.
Give me up if you can; that will settle all. With my terrible care my violent nervous disorder
has also returned. During my work I frequently felt quite well; the thunder-clouds seemed to
have cleared away. I often felt beautifully elevated, gently supported; generally I was silent,
but it was from inner joy; even hope wound itself softly round my heart; the children of fable
came to the weeping elf, saying, "Weep not; thou too mayst still be happy." But the word resounded
from farther and farther distance, till at last I could hear it no longer. Silence! now the
old night holds me again; let it devour me altogether!

Pardon me. I CANNOT help it.

Farewell, my Franz; farewell; farewell.

Your

R. W.

146.

Dear Friend,

You were going to send me your "Kunstler." Why does it not arrive?

How about the "Faust" symphony? I am writing the "Rhinegold" at once in full score. I did not
see my way to jotting down clearly the introduction (the depth of the Rhine) as a sketch; so
I hit upon the full score. This is a slower way of proceeding, and my head is still a little
confused.

The Princess has done well; greet her and thank her warmly from me. Who knows how it will turn
out? I do not care to know.

This is a sign of life to which you must respond sympathetically.

Your

R. W.

Zurich, February 7th, 1854

147.

Dearest Richard,

It is a sad fate that we have to live apart from each other. I can tell you nothing but that
I think of you constantly and love you from my heart of hearts.

Latterly my time has been painfully occupied by all manner of business, visits, work, etc.
I have written to nobody, as you may well imagine, because you did not receive a letter from me.

Together with this I send you the score of my "Kunstler" chorus, and between this and the autumn
I intend to publish half-a-dozen orchestral pieces, also in full score. By October the "Faust"
symphony will be finished, which also will be published soon afterwards.

Let us leave these trifles alone and speak of your "Rhinegold." Have you really finished it?
That has been wonderfully quick work indeed. You know how delighted I should be if you would
let me see the score. Send it to me as soon as you can do without it.

In the meantime I have not neglected your pecuniary affairs, and hope that my intentions will
not be frustrated. CANDIDLY answer me two questions:--

1. Have you pressing debts, and what sum do you absolutely require to meet them?

2. Can you manage to live this year on your present income?

There is a probability that Berlin may come off next autumn, and in that case I shall let you
know the little result of my effort in good time. For the present DO NOT SPEAK ABOUT IT. Dorn
was here, and conducted the second performance of his "Nibelungen." The work is to be given
at Berlin in six weeks.

Brendel wrote several things to me about the "Lohengrin" affair in Leipzig. In my opinion,
nothing further can be done for the moment, and you have every reason to be calm and SATISFIED.
Lohengrin's barque is drawn by a swan; the cackling of geese and the barking of dogs are of
no avail.

Berlioz is coming to Hanover at the end of March, and goes from there to Dresden, where he
will conduct a few concerts at the theatre. Fischer wrote to me recently about an intended
performance of "Cellini" at Dresden. This is as yet a secret, which I, for my part, should
like to see made public very soon. The opera is Berlioz's freshest and roundest work, and its
failure in Paris and London must be attributed to low villainy and misapprehension. It would
be a fine thing if Dresden were to offer him a brilliant REVANCHE, such as he deserves.

Brendel will publish his book within a few days. When you have read it, tell me your candid
opinion. Raff also has finished a stout volume on the "Wagner Question" (!). He refuses to
show me ANYTHING of it, although he has read parts to several other persons.

148.

DEAR FRANZ,

Many thanks for your "Kunstler." You had in me a somewhat adverse judge of this composition--I
mean, I was not in the mood for it. I have got so unaccustomed to judging in an objective sense
that in everything I go entirely by inclination. I take up only what attracts my sympathy,
and enjoy it, without in the least analysing that enjoyment in a critical manner. Imagine then
the contradictions which the very choice of the poem necessarily roused within me. It is more
or less a didactic poem. In it speaks to us a philosopher who has finally returned to art,
and does so with the greatest possible emphasis of resolution;--in brief Schiller to the life!
Besides this, a chorus for a concert! I have no longer any feeling for that kind of thing,
and could not produce it at any price. I should not know where to take my inspiration. One
other thing: my musical position towards verse and metre has undergone an enormous change.
I could not at any price write a melody to Schiller's verses, which are entirely intended for
reading. These verses must be treated musically in a certain arbitrary manner, and that arbitrary
manner, as it does not bring about a real flow of melody, leads us to harmonic excesses and
violent efforts to produce artificial wavelets in the unmelodic fountain. I have experienced
all this myself, and in my present state of development have arrived at an entirely different
form of treatment. Consider, for instance, that the ENTIRE instrumental introduction to the
"Rhinegold" is based upon the common chord of E flat. Imagine then how sensitive I am in these
matters and how startled I was when, on opening your "Kunstler," I hit upon the exact contrary
of my PRESENT system. I do not deny that I shook my head while going on, and that stupidly
I observed in the first instance only the things which startled me--I mean details, always
details. At the same time, there was something in these details which seemed to strike me in
spite of my unsympathetic mood. At the close I reflected and arrived at the reasonable idea
of letting the WHOLE pass by me in full swing. In fact, I imbibed it in a manner with the most
fortunate results. I saw you suddenly at your desk, saw you, heard you, and understood you.
In this way I received another proof of the experience that it is our own fault if we cannot
receive what is magnanimously offered. This your address to the artists is a grand, beautiful,
splendid trait of your own artistic life. I was deeply moved by the force of your intention.
You give utterance to it, body and soul, at a time, in circumstances, and before people who
would be well advised in trying to understand you. You have done well in drawing Schiller's
lines out of their literary existence and in proclaiming them loudly and clearly to the world
with trumpet sound. You have, as I say, done well. How to do it was your own affair. YOU knew
HOW these lines should be proclaimed to the world, for to none but you had occurred the necessity
of that proclamation. I at least know nobody who could do something of this kind with such
force. WHAT an artist intends to do shows to him HOW he should do it, and by this HOW we recognize
the WHAT. What you intended to do here you could not have expressed otherwise than by this
tremendous display of eloquence, of emotion, of overpowering strength. This is my criticism.
I have no other. But who will be able to sing this to your liking? Mercy on me when I think
of our tail-coated concert singers! During the performance at Carlsruhe you had, probably from
your own inspiration, worked yourself into such a state of excitement, that you thought you
heard them sing as they should have sung. I suspect, however, that the public heard correctly
what was sung, and therefore could of course not understand the matter at all. Dear friend,
you require singers such as I want for my Wotan, etc. Consider this! I have become so abominably
practical that the moment of actual representation is always before my eyes, and this is another
source of my joyful despair.

Thanks then for your "Kunstler." I feel as if it were meant for a present to myself only, and
as if no one else were to know what you have really given to the world.

I am hard at work. Can you tell me of any one who would be able to compile a score from my
wild pencil sketches? I worked this time quite differently from what I did before, but this
having to make a clean copy kills me. I lose time over it which I might employ to better purpose;
and apart from this, the continual writing tires me to such an extent that I feel quite ill
and lose the inclination for real work. Without a clever man of this kind I am lost; WITH HIM
the WHOLE will be finished in two years. For that time I should require the man. If there were
a pause in the scoring, he might copy parts in the meantime. Look out for one. There is no
one here. It is true that it may seem absurd that I am going to keep a secretary, who can scarcely
keep myself.

If you can help me, you will be doing God's work. Am I not worth a few thousand thalers for
half a year to some German enthusiast? I will give him full security on the royalties due to
me in the autumn.

On Monday I expect Gustav Schmidt, of Frankfort. I have summoned him in order to go through
"Lohengrin" with him, and perhaps he will bring his tenor. I am glad to see him so full of zeal.

As to the rest, I shut my ears against all the world. I do not want to know how low I have sunk.

Shall I hear from you soon? If you think of me at all, think of me always as of one hard at
work and profoundly melancholy. Farewell, best and dearest friend. The "Kunstler" is splendid.
Greet all at home.

From your

R. W.

ZURICH, MARCH 4TH, 1854.

149.

UNIQUE FRIEND,

I am frequently sad on your account; and on my own account I have not much reason to rejoice.
My chief object and task is taking a very serious and painful turn. I had no right to expect
much else in that direction, and was prepared, but these long entanglements which I have to
submit to have caused me much trouble and have jeopardised my pecuniary position, so that at
present I am unable to assist a friend. This I feel very much, and prefer to say nothing further
about it. You will understand me and not misinterpret my silence. When the time comes, I shall
explain my affairs to you by word of mouth; they are not rose-coloured, and another man might
have perished, which other men might not have disliked to see.

Today I only want to tell you that on the day of the performance of the opera by the Duke of
Gotha I met Herr von Hulsen at dinner. He led the conversation to the performance of your works
at Berlin, and told me that he was only waiting till you had sold your rights to Messrs. Bote
and Bock in order to produce them. I made bold to say that I had reason to doubt very much
whether this would be done, and that even if B. and B. bought the scores of "Tannhauser" and
"Lohengrin" I did not think for a moment that you would abandon your previous demand of my
being invited to Berlin in order to secure an adequate rendering of your works. Write to me
how this matter stands. I do not want to advise you, but I think that the Berlin performance
is an important point for you, and that you would gain nothing by altering your previous position--I
mean that the performance should not take place except through my medium and according to my
directions.

I was told that the Konigsberg troupe intended to perform "Tannhauser" at Berlin this summer.
I tell you this because I think that you will not approve of the plan, and will refuse your
consent if asked for it.

I am very weary and tired, but spring will give us new strength.

Write soon to your affectionate and truly devoted

F. LISZT.

GOTHA, APRIL 4TH, 1854.

P.S.--This afternoon I return to Weymar. R. Pohl and his wife are there, and I have asked him
to give you an account of the impending performances of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin."

150.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

Heaven knows how anxiously I waited this time for your letter! I reply at once in order to
explain the "business" part.

I knew nothing about Messrs. Bote and Bock, but have now come to the conclusion that they must
be the purchasers of my operas whom my Berlin agent had in his eye when necessity compelled
me last winter to apply to him. I declare that at present I should not sell my operas to Bote
and Bock or anybody else, for reasons which I need scarcely tell you. I find it difficult to
understand how Herr von Hulsen can be naive enough to think that I should consent to the performance
of "Tannhauser" at Berlin by the Konigsberg troupe. I shall write to Konigsberg about it this
very day, and I ask you also to write to Hulsen at once and to announce my VETO to him. You
may do this in MY NAME, and mention at the same time that I have ONCE FOR ALL placed everything
concerning my operas at Berlin in YOUR HANDS, being firmly resolved to treat with Berlin only
through you and according to your opinion, but never again personally. You may further say
that if Herr von Hulsen intended to give an opera by me, and was waiting till he had no longer
to treat with me, but with a third person (Bote and Bock, as he thought), because he had fallen
out with me personally, he would now have a splendid opportunity of settling everything without
coming in personal contact with me, because he would have to deal with you alone; that, as
my plenipotentiary, you were compelled to protest against the performance by the Konigsberg
troupe, but that in the same capacity you were prepared to arrange the matter with him in some
other way. I think this would be a good opportunity of bringing the Berlin affair to a satisfactory
conclusion. There is much need for it, I can assure you. Heaven only knows how I am to pull
through; and although I do not wish to torture you any more, I may tell you that in my present
position you can do me a great and very valuable service by your intercession in another quarter.
Listen! They have performed "Tannhauser" at Augsburg, badly enough, it is true, but it has
paved the way for Munich. Dingelstedt has written me an amiable and encouraging letter, and
I have sent him the opera which is to be given there in the summer. As regards honorarium,
I have entreated him to procure me the best possible terms, as these operas are my only capital,
and I must mainly rely upon the great court theatres. I have, however, made no definite demand,
having full confidence in him. You know Dingelstedt intimately, and you would oblige me by
asking him to get me something substantial, royalties in preference. Before all, I should wish
to have some money BEFORE THE END OF THIS MONTH, either as an advance on these royalties or,
if that is impossible, as the final purchase money, in which case I think I might ask a hundred
louis d'or. (Dresden always used to pay me sixty louis d'or; but as "Tannhauser" has everywhere
proved a great draw, I think I might expect the lump sum of a hundred louis d'or from so great
a court theatre as Munich.) He is probably on his travels now, but if you address to the care
of W. Schmidt, inspector of the Court Theatre, the letter will, I think, be forwarded to him.
Do not be angry with me.

It is only a friend like you whom one can ask to be of active help to others while he himself
is in such a painful position as you, poor man, seem to be. Although I have a general idea
of your situation, I am very desirous to know precisely how your affairs and those of your
dear ones really stand. I feel aggrieved because you touch upon them always in a very cursory
manner. From all I can make out, I must fear that the Princess has been cut off from her estate
permanently and completely, and I must own that such losses are well adapted to upset one's
equanimity. I also understand that you look into the future with a heavy heart, as the fate
of a most lovable, youthful being is equally involved. If you had to inform me that you three
dear ones were now quite poor and solitary, even then I could not be very sorry- -so stupid
am I--especially if I saw that you had kept up your courage. My dearest, dearest, unique Franz,
give me the heart, the spirit, the mind of a woman in which I could wholly sink myself, which
could quite comprehend me. How little should I then ask of this world. How indifferent would
be to me this empty glitter, which, in my despair, I have latterly again been tempted to gather
round me as a diversion of my fancy. If I could live with you in beautiful retirement, or,
which would be the same thing, if we could live here wholly for each other instead of frittering
our beings away with so many insipid and indifferent people, how happy I should be. And "off
and on" we should be sure to undertake something to give vent to our energies in the outer world.

But I am talking wildly. Correct me if I deserve it; I shall never be anything but a fantastic
good-for-nothing.

Has Eugene sent you my medallion? It is not bad, only a little sickly.

I shall soon have to write again; I have more materials than I can deal with today.

The instrumentation of the "Rhinegold" is going on apace. At present I am with the orchestra
down in "Nibelheim." In May the whole will be ready, but not the clean copy, only single sheets
with illegible pencil sketches on them. It will be some time before you can see anything of
it. In June I have to begin the "Valkyrie." When are you coming? You say nothing about it,
and yet you talk of "verbal communications." Schindelmeisser wrote to me yesterday, asking
me to come to Darmstadt on the sly on Easter Monday, because "Lohengrin" would be splendid.
That I shall leave alone.

Adieu, dearest, dearest Franz. I have so many things to write to you, that I must close for today.

Convey my best regards.

Your

R. W.

ZURICH, April 9th, 1854.

151.

What do you think, dear friend? Would it be of any use if I sent you a letter to the King of
Saxony, which the Grand Duke of Weimar might forward to him through a confidential person (perhaps
his ambassador)? I admit that the Prime Minister of Saxony would be more important than the
King, but to such a person I cannot possibly apply. Would the Grand Duke do this? Something
must be done; I must be able to fly from my ordinary condition at least "off and on," otherwise--

How are YOU? Do write!

Your

R. W.

152.

For five days, dearest Richard, I have been in bed suffering from catarrh and intermittent
fever, and shall probably have to be very careful till next week.

I wrote to Dingelstedt long ago, and asked him to reply to you direct and make the contents
of his letter as weighty as possible. Dingelstedt is a gentleman, and will no doubt behave
in such a manner as will satisfy you.

"Lohengrin" and "Tannhauser" were given here last week. On the first occasion the house was
illuminated, because the Grand Duchess visited the theatre for the first time since her confinement.
Gotze (at present professor at the Leipzig Conservatoire, previously for fifteen or twenty
years tenor at our theatre) sang "Lohengrin," and gave the lyrical portions of the part with
much greater effect than had previously been the case. He had studied the part thoroughly at
numerous performances, both here and at Leipzig, and therefore sang the music with absolute
certainty. "Tannhauser" drew, as usual, a full house; at the "Lohengrin" performance many strangers
who had only arrived in the afternoon had to be refused admission.

Pohl's wife played the harp part very well, and I asked him to write to you about the performance.
Pohl is a zealous and warm adherent of yours.

The newspapers announce that you are going to conduct the impending Musical Festival in Canton
Valais. Is there any truth in it? What part will Methfessel take in the direction? Let me know
about this, as I have been asked several times.

----

I had got so far in my letter when yours was brought to me.

That is once more a dark, hopeless complaint! To help or to look on calmly--the one is almost
as impossible to me as the other.

After the experiences I have had, and of which I told you only the smaller part, I can scarcely
believe that the King of Saxony will perform the act of grace desired by us. However, I will
try again. Send me your letter to his Majesty. I hope it will be placed before him soon and
in the best possible way. Our Grand Duke is for the moment absent, and I shall not be able
to see him before next week. Write to me at once, and concoct your letter for Dresden, which
you must send to me open.

I have looked out for the copyist you require for your "Nibelungen." It is difficult to find
the proper individual who could undertake such a task. I know several young men who would willingly
try, but they are not sufficiently skilful and competent. I have sent a message to one of my
former friends at Berlin asking him whether he could place himself at your disposal. With him
you would be quite satisfied. In case my inquiry leads to a favourable result, I will let you
know. You ask me how I am ...

"When need is highest, God is highest."

Do not be anxious about my indisposition; it will soon be over, and my legs have to carry me
a good way further still.

Your

F. LISZT.

153.

DEAR, DEAR FRANZ,

I can never complain to you again. I go on worrying you with my confidences in a sinful manner,
while you keep your own grief to yourself. My troublesome candour knows no bounds; every drop
of the fount of my sorrow I pour out before you, and--I must hope that that is the very reason
why you are so silent as to your own circumstances. But I begin to feel that the best remedy
for our sufferings is sympathy with those of others. My only sorrow today is that you hide
your grief from my sympathy. Are you really too proud to let me know, or do you refrain from
giving me back the painful impression I made on you with my complaints, because you were unable
to assist me? Be it so, dear friend; if you do not feel the want of making a clean breast of
it all, be silent! But if you do feel such a want, then esteem me worthy of listening to your
grief. Do not think me as weak as I may appear to be. My difficulty lies in the abominable
meanness of my situation; but of that I can take a larger view if some strong sympathy induces
me to break with my habit of thought. I think I have said enough. If more were needed, even
this would have been too much.

Assume henceforth that all is right with me; that I have no other care but that which your
troubles give me.

The letter to the King of Saxony I shall leave alone; I should not know how to utter any truth
in it that he would comprehend, and to tell lies I do not care; it is the only sin I know.
I shall finish my "Nibelungen;" after that there will be time to take a look round the world.
For "Lohengrin" I am sorry; it will probably go to the d-- in the meanwhile. Well, let it go;
I have other things in my bag. Well then, I have once more needlessly troubled you.

Dingelstedt has not replied to me yet; he will have difficulties; it is not the custom to pay
decently for dramatic work. Neither do I know how to oust X. from "Tannhauser." He is said
to be a complete ass and a blackguard to boot. Hartinger, the tenor, is very good and full
of his task; but it was just he who told me that he did not see how X., even with the best
intentions, could execute such music. You of course I cannot expect to venture into this wasp's
nest of Philistines.

The Konigsberg manager has replied to me, saying that he has no idea of producing "Tannhauser"
at Berlin. What nonsense Herr H. has been talking to you! Do you care to write to him about it?

Do not misunderstand me if now and then I leave something concerning myself unmentioned to
you. The cause generally is that I attach no importance to it. The truth about the Valais Musical
Festival is as follows. The committee asked me some time ago to conduct that festival, which
I flatly declined, declaring, however, my willingness to undertake a symphony by Beethoven
(that in A) if they would appoint for the festival proper another conductor who would agree
to that arrangement. This they readily accepted, and engaged Methfessel, of Berne, who is quite
devoted to me. In their announcements they think it useful to put the matter in such a way
as to make it appear that I have undertaken the direction of "the Musical Festival" conjointly
with M. Perhaps it was this that surprised you. Altogether not much that is "musical" can be
expected from this gathering. People frighten me about the orchestra they are likely to bring
together, but there are even greater doubts as to the collection of a decent chorus. As, moreover,
they are going to have only ONE rehearsal, you will easily understand why I did not want to
have much to do with the affair, and especially had no thought of making propaganda. Latterly,
it is true, they have asked me to produce something of my own, and I have given up to them
the "Tannhauser" overture, but with the condition that I must see myself whether they can manage
it; after the rehearsal I shall be at liberty to withdraw it. The whole thing attracts me only
because it gives me an opportunity for an Alpine trip (by the Bernese Oberland to Valais).
In the same sense I have sent out invitations right and left, especially to Joachim, who had
already promised me his visit for the summer, and whom I have asked to arrange so as to be
here about that time; he might in that case do a little in the "festivalling" line in Valais.
B. I also invited, but to YOU I had so many other things to write at the time that I forgot
about this invitation, and the same might easily have occurred again today. However, how do
matters stand? You are sure to come to me, are you not? And will you follow me across the Alps?
It is to be at the beginning of July.

If Joachim would like on the same occasion to let me hear something, I could easily get him
a regular engagement for the festival.

To Brendel I have been owing a letter some time for his book; I don't know what to write to
him. All that is very well, and those who cannot do anything better should do what these people
do, but I have no inclination that way any longer.

By your activity, however, I am delighted. What a lot of things you do! Do not think I am indifferent
because I keep silence; no, I am really glad! May you succeed in all you do! About this another
time.

The clean copy of my scores I shall, after all, have to make myself. It would be difficult
to compile it to my liking, especially as the sketches are frightfully confused, so that no
one but myself could make head or tail of them. It will take more time; that is all. Many thanks
for your trouble in this matter also. We may perhaps talk about it; and if it tires me too
much, I may still make use of your Berlin friend.

God bless you, dear Franz; you must soon let me hear MUCH, ALL!

Have confidence in your devoted

RICHARD.

ZURICH, MAY 2ND, 1854.

While I am composing and scoring, I think only of YOU, how this and the other will please you;
I am ALWAYS dealing with you.

154.

(FROM HERR VON HULSEN.)

MUCH-ESTEEMED DOCTOR,

In reference to our conversation when I had the honour of seeing you at Gotha, I beg to ask,--

If I should wish to produce "Tannhauser" at the beginning of next winter, what would be the
conditions?

Be kind enough, dear sir, to let me have your answer as soon as possible.

With the greatest esteem,

Your obedient servant,

HULSEN.

BERLIN, May 17th, 1854.

[MY ANSWER.]

DEAR SIR,

I have the honour to return the following answer to your question as to the "conditions" of
the performance of Wagner's operas in Berlin:--

It need not be explained at length that the performances of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" which
have so far been given by theatres of the second and third rank, satisfactory and creditable
for them though many of them have been, cannot be accepted as a standard for the performances
contemplated at Berlin. For the very reason that Wagner attributes special importance to the
Berlin stage, he has asked and commissioned me to assist him in this matter as a friend and
an artist, and has given me unlimited power to act for him. The conditions are really none
other than a dignified and adequate representation, which would guarantee a more than ordinary
success for these works. The latter result is not doubtful to me provided that the representation
is worthy of the Berlin stage, and I venture to think that you, dear sir, would share this
opinion after the final rehearsals. But in order to arrive at rehearsals at all, I consider
it necessary that a conclusive and brief conversation should without delay take place between
you and me to settle the following points:--

A. The cast.

B. The arrangement of the rehearsals, at some of which I must be present.

If you desire it, I am prepared to come to Berlin at the end of the theatrical season here
(June 24th), in order to arrive at an understanding with you about the whole matter, which
cannot be difficult.

As to the honorarium claimed by Wagner, I can assure you in advance that he will make no unreasonable
demands, and I shall let you know his decision after communicating once more with him. As a
minor point, concerning my humble self, I may add that although my personal participation in
the performance of a work by Wagner would involve a stay in Berlin of about a month, and the
sacrifice of time would therefore be considerable, I should be so delighted at the anticipated
success of this matter, that I should not like to mix it up with an estimate of my own expenses.

One other point I must mention: I have heard lately that Wagner makes my direction of his operas
an absolute condition for Berlin. Highly flattered as I must be by Wagner's confidence, I take
the liberty, in accordance with my unlimited power, of considering the question of my direction
as a QUESTION RESERVEE, which I shall decide later on, ACCORDING TO CIRCUMSTANCES. I hope some
means will be found of preserving my responsibility towards Wagner and his works without leading
to an intrusion of myself on the Berlin artists. Accept, etc., etc.

Your obedient servant,

F. L.

WEYMAR, MAY 20TH, 1854.

N.B.--Be good enough to send me your final instructions as to this point, whether you want
a lump sum down, or royalties, or both. Write to me at once as to this, and leave it to me
to get a PLUS or a MINUS, according to circumstances.

As soon as Hulsen takes another step in the matter, you will hear of it at once, dearest friend.
Write to me about the money point, and let me know your other wishes as to the Berlin performance.

In the meantime keep the above two letters TO YOURSELF, as too much has already been said about
the Berlin affair.

The arrangement with Dingelstedt has not as yet been settled, but he is coming to Weymar at
the end of June. Probably he intends to wait till the Munich Exhibition is over and to produce
"Tannhauser" in the autumn. He writes that he is sorry not to be able to comply with all your
wishes as to the honorarium. If you have made any special demands, let me know.

I am rather unwell and weary. This letter-writing, bargaining, and transacting are intolerable
to me; by way of relaxation, I am writing a longish article about the "Flying Dutchman"; I
hope it will amuse you. Brendel will publish it completely before the middle of June; in the
meantime it is appearing as a FEUILLETON in the "Weymar Official Gazette."

Eugene Wittgenstein has sent me your medallion, which has given me great pleasure. It is the
most faithful likeness of all your portraits.

In five or six days I shall visit Joachim at Hanover; he was here all last week, and showed
me a very remarkable overture. Joachim is making a considerable step in advance as a composer;
and if he goes on like this for a few years, he will do something out of the way.

God bless you, dearest friend, in joy and sorrow!

Write soon to

Your

F. L.

MAY 20TH, 1854.

155.

DEAR FRIEND,

In a very few days I shall write to you at length, and at the same time explain to you why
this letter is so short. For the present only this, because it must not be delayed: ROYALTIES,
nothing else. If these royalties are to be lucrative--I.E., if my operas are to be given FREQUENTLY--the
manager must be well and sincerely inclined to the cause. Therefore we will treat him nobly.
You have written MOST EXCELLENTLY.

In a few days more from your

R. W.

MAY 26TH, 1854. 156.

HIGHLY ESTEEMED HERR INTENDANT,

By your courteous letter of May 29th, I must perceive that you are not inclined to agree with
Wagner's artistic views which cause and account for my interference in the performance of his
works at Berlin. I sincerely regret that the deplorable circumstances which prevent Wagner
from living in Germany are still in existence, and that many things occur thereby which impede
the natural progress of the performances of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin." You, sir, are too
well versed and experienced in matters of art to ignore how much the success of important dramatic
works depends upon the manner of their performance. The masterpieces of Gluck, cited in your
letter, surely owe, in spite of their great beauties, their permanent effect largely to the
particular interest taken in them by Spontini and to his personal influence at Berlin. In the
same manner, the exceptional successes of Spontini's and Meyerbeer's own operas were enhanced
by the special activity of their composers. It would lead me too far to discuss further facts
which have been proved so often, and I confine myself to telling you candidly that if the management
intends to do no more than give TANNHAUSER or LOHENGRIN just like any other work, it would
be almost more advisable to give any other work and to leave those of Wagner alone.

With Capellmeister Dorn I had several conversations about the whole matter some months ago,
and I am convinced that he will not consider Wagner's condition of my undisguised participation
in the performance of his works at Berlin to be an unfair demand. It is of course natural that
you, sir, are "not inclined to accept any obligation which would reflect on the dignity and
the capability of the institution as well as on the authority of the intendant." Such an intention
is, indeed, very far from my mind. You add, sir, "I expect the confidence of the composer in
myself and the Royal Theatre." This point also has been settled, and is wholly beyond question
or discussion; but as Wagner has commissioned me to be his substitute at Berlin and has advised
you of his resolution, I must, in the interest of the cause and of my position, decline to
be reduced gradually to the part of the fifth whist-player, who, according to the proverb,
occupies a very inconvenient position "under the table." In consequence I am obliged to ask
you, sir, either to agree to the arrangement contained in my last letter, and, in your capacity
of intendant of the Royal Theatre, to approve of my participation in the rehearsals and performance
of Wagner's works at Berlin, according to his clearly expressed wish, or else to leave the
whole matter in its actual STATUS QUO.

With the highest esteem, I am, sir,

Your obedient servant,

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, JUNE 3RD, 1854.

P.S.--In his last letter Wagner writes that he leaves the pecuniary conditions with regard
to Berlin wholly to my decision, and that "Tannhauser" will satisfy him.

DEAREST FRIEND,--Return Hulsen's letter to me, as I have not taken a copy, and should not like
it to fall into other hands. I hope you will approve of my answer. The enclosed rough draft
you may keep.

I was four days at Hanover. What will become of me this summer I cannot determine. As soon
as I know, you shall hear.

Have you a copy of the pianoforte score of "Tannhauser" to spare? Roger, who is here, would
like to study the part, and has written and asked for a copy, but hitherto in vain. I told
him that I would let you know, and that I was convinced you would send me a copy for him if
possible. It is said that the edition of Meser in Dresden is sold out, or else I might order
one from there. You might in your next letter write a few lines which, or a copy of which,
I could show to Roger. He is fairly musical, and might make a good effect in the part of Tannhauser.

When will the Musical Festival in Canton Valais take place, and how long shall you stay there?

157.

Again only a few lines in reply, dear Franz. You of course will not doubt for a moment that
I feel sincerely grateful to you for the energy with which you take care of my interest with
Hulsen. Let us "save the soul;" then the body also will fare best. I return Hulsen's letter
to you. But I am grieved to give you all this trouble. Let us expect nothing. My opinion is
that you should not answer him any more.

About the pianoforte score of "Tannhauser" I am writing to Dresden; they must get one somehow
and send it to you for Roger. As you know, I have had Roger in my eye for a long time. If,--as
I hope he will through you,--he really learns his task carefully and goes to it with love,
I have no doubt that he will be the FIRST Tannhauser to satisfy my intentions entirely. Greet
him very kindly.

Your question about the Musical Festival has given me hopes that you might accompany me there.
Really, dear Franz, that would be a joy in this sad year. If you could induce the Princess
and the Child to make an expedition to Valais by way of the Oberland and the Gemmi, oh, then,
then all would be well. Only from the stupid festival itself you must expect nothing. All my
compositions I have withdrawn, and shall only produce the A major symphony; there will be many
people, but not much music. If you were there, and perhaps J. and B. as well, we might extemporise
something purely for our own diversion. May Heaven grant that you may be sufficiently recovered
to do a foolish thing and tempt others to it as well.

The festival will be on July 10th, 11th, and 12th. In the first days of the same month we should
have to begin our exodus VIA the Oberland. I have been trying for some time to vegetate; the
copying of the score of "Rhinegold" will have to wait. I must first of all have a go at the
"Valkyrie."

Farewell, dearest, unique Franz. Give me some hope of seeing you and yours.

Your

R. W.

ZURICH, JUNE 7TH, 1854.

158.

Herewith, dearest Richard, I send you X.'s babble, together with the sketch of my very simple
answer. Probably the cart will stick in the mud for some time, and then the transactions will
begin again. Well, I have learned to understand people, although the real kernel of their phrases
has not been, and cannot be, clearly expressed. I have seen too much of this to be deceived.
The difficulty lies neither with Hulsen nor with other people whose names have been mentioned,
but with THOSE whom we will not name, although we know them a little.

My symphonic poems I will bring you as soon as I find it possible to get away from here for
a fortnight. I am very glad you take an interest in them.

Let us be PATIENT, and remain in evil days faithful to eternity.

Your

FRANZISCUS.

June 8th, 1854.

159.

DEAR FRANZ,

Here you have the "babble" back again, the possession of which I do not envy you. Let us put
this disgusting nonsense on one side; on hearing the jargon, devoid of honesty or character,
which these stupid souls call "prudence," one feels as if a hundred thousand fools were gathered
together. Our fortune lies at bottom in the fact that we do not yield to such people, and our
perseverance in this is sufficient gain. To "get" something by it is of course more than we
can expect. Thus in this instance I am quite satisfied to know that we shall not do what X.
wants; this is alone sufficient to put me in a good temper; what happens otherwise is a matter
of indifference to us. Berlin to us has been the occasion of celebrating a feast of friendship.
What else have we to do with or to care about Berlin?

A thousand thanks for all you are doing and the way in which you do it.

As regards "success" in X.'s practical sense, I shall probably never have it. It would indeed
be a kind of satire on my situation and my being. On the other hand, I should at any moment
be prepared to die gladly and with a smile on my face if only a really fine opportunity would
offer itself. What more can one desire? As regards my personal future, I sincerely wish for
nothing more than a beautiful death, for life is somehow out of joint. I often feel sorry that
things around me do not seem to tend in that direction. Every one seems to care chiefly for
a "long life," however narrow, thin, and poor it may be. This is sad.

Of all this we will talk when you come, for that you will come is certain, Lord be thanked.
Bring your symphonic poems with you; that will strengthen my thread of life a little.

Do not look out for a copyist. Madame Wesendonck has given me a gold pen of indestructible
power, which has once more turned me into a caligraphic pedant. The scores will be my most
perfect masterpiece of caligraphy. One cannot fly from his destiny. Meyerbeer years ago admired
nothing so much in my scores as the neat writing. This act of admiration has been my curse;
I must write neat scores as long as I live in this world.

You will not be allowed to see the "Rhinegold" till it has been completed in this worthy fashion,
and that can only be done in certain idle hours of the long winter evenings. At present I have
no time for it. I must begin the composition of the "Valkyrie," which I feel joyfully in every
limb.

Greet the Princess and the Child with the full power of greeting. For today I must be satisfied
with this request; I can write no more, not even with my gold pen. I might say a good deal
more if I were not taken with a fit of weeping, as once on the railway. I have just been called
out; an eagle was flying over our house. A good omen!

"Long live the eagle;" he flew splendidly. The swallows were very anxious.

Farewell in the sign of the eagle.

Your

R. W.

160.

Let me tell you that tears prevent me from reading on.

Oh, you are unique of your kind!

It has struck me like a thunderbolt. Heavens, what have you written to me there?

You alone know it!

161.

A thousand thanks, dearest Franz. You have helped me out of a terrible difficulty after I had
exhausted all other resources. By the autumn, I think, my affairs will be in better order.

When are you coming? I am going to Canton Valais in a few days, but intend to be back soon.
I have no money for roaming about, and while I am enjoying my work nothing else attracts me.

The "Valkyrie" has been begun, and now I shall go at it in good style.

How curious these contrasts are--I mean, between the first love scene of the "Valkyrie" and
that of the "Rhinegold."

Brendel must have surprised you. (Bosh!) God bless you.

162.

DEAREST FRANZ,

You are just the person whom I wanted to be in Leipzig at this moment, and I look upon your
passage through that town as a hint of fate that there may be help for me AFTER ALL. In my
great trouble I wrote to Brendel some time ago, asking him whether he could get me amongst
my Leipzig "admirers" 1,000 thalers on a bill at four or five months' date. Answer: "No, but
perhaps A. might manage it through one person or another." As A. had recently paid me a visit,
I wrote to him also. Answer: "No." In the course of the next three months I expect this year's
receipts from my operas, and to all appearance they will be good and help me once for all out
of this last difficulty. The very least I may expect is this sum of 1,000 thalers. I may therefore,
with a good conscience, give a bill payable after three months (end of October) to any one
who will lend it to me. Hartel must do it. If he should prefer to advance me 1,000 thalers
on account of my receipts, it will suit me equally well. He can control those receipts, and
I will give orders that all payments of honorarium are to be made to X. till the money has
been returned. Whichever way he likes will suit me, only let me get out of this miserable condition,
which makes me feel like a galley-slave.

A. wrote to me about certain possibilities of Germany being opened to me for the special purpose
of a short journey. I do not believe it, and at this moment do not care much about it; I certainly
will not take the least trouble in the matter. Concerning the Berlin affair, be assured that
I am only too glad to leave it entirely in your hands. I should be a nice fool if I withdrew
it from them as long as you are not tired of it yourself. X. will take good care not to apply
to me. All this is idle gossip.

From the Musical Festival at Sitten I ran away. It appeared to me like a great village fair,
and I did not care to take part in the music-making. I simply bolted. No "musical festivals"
of any kind for me! I feel quite jealous because you have gone to Rotterdam. I hope you will
find time for Zurich as well. Come if you can in the latter half of August, for then I think
the Wesendoncks will be back.

Good Lord, my head is a waste. Yesterday early I left the lake of Geneva. Last night I spent
in the stage-coach from Berne to Lucerne. At present I am afloat on the lake of Lucerne, from
the shore of which I shall fetch my wife, who is going through a cure of curds and whey. After
that I return to Zurich, which I DARE do only in the hope that your attack on the Hartels has
succeeded. No one can help me here; I exhausted everything to secure my existence from last
winter till now. If all goes well, I shall continue the composition of the "Valkyrie" after
August 1st. Work, THIS work, is the ONLY thing that makes life bearable. With the copying of
the "Rhinegold" I go on in the intervals; in the late autumn you will, I hope, have the score.

Pardon me for this confused stuff in reply to your beautiful, cheerful letter from the Rhine.
Perhaps I shall write in a better spirit soon. I am on the point of landing at Brunnen, where
you are still remembered as "double Peps." How cheerful you were at that time.

On board the "Stadt Zurich," on the lake of Lucerne, en vue de Brunnen.

Remember JULY 31ST.

163.

DEAR, GREAT MAN,

A thousand thanks for the autograph, which will give much joy. This Fraulein Soest is a good,
excellent girl, who was sent by her parents to England, and was there taken with home-sickness
for the "Weymar school," "the music of the future," and the "Wagnerian opera." She managed
to escape, and is now settled at Erfurt, where she gives pianoforte lessons, and from where
she comes to Weymar to hear your poems.

Ten and a hundred thousand thanks for many other things besides. Liszt was delighted to hear
that his articles in the Weymar paper had pleased you. It is a fine thing of you to have understood
them so well. They are to go on for some time, and the "Flying Dutchman" will conclude this
series. It is truly a wreath of mourning which he binds there; your dark, noble hero lives,
and will live. Sleep and solitude are not death; and his vital strength is such, that for a
long time to come he will make the round of Europe at certain intervals. Beethoven's "Fidelio"
is only just becoming acclimatised in London.

I am quite happy that the symphonic poems interest you. When he is ABLE to visit you, he will
bring the scores with him. At the present moment they are, I believe, being partly copied out
and partly revised for engraving, etc., etc. But you, dear, great genius, will be the first
to read them. They have been for the greater part performed here. The music is most beautiful,
very noble, very elevated.

Your letters give us the same joy which a poor man used only to kicks and coarse copper coin
would feel at receiving an alms of gold. Give us that alms frequently, because you are none
the poorer for it. Allow Liszt to manage Hulsen, and leave Berlin to him wholly and entirely.
It may go slowly, but it will go WELL and, before all, DECENTLY. How good, how prudent, how
delicate and patient, HE is--that I know. Another man would during these six years have sunk
and been drowned eighteen times in the storms which have our poor little barque for a plaything.
He alone keeps us still on the surface.

Liszt has written to Berlin to find some one who will copy your "Rhinegold," the beautiful
"Rhinegold," for which our ears are sighing. He whom he thought would answer your purpose is
not free for the present. What is needed to make you begin the "Valkyrie?" And oh! that wonderful
scene between Wotan and Brynhild--the divine Brynhild, who saves Sieglinde! Write at great
length; it will do good to our three hearts, which are united and inseparable. The whole atmosphere
of the Altenburg is gently illumed when a letter from you has arrived.

Heaven grant that we may say, "Au revoir! soon," and that we soon may see your "Rhinegold,"
were it but a sketch. If you only knew how Liszt sings your poems! We adored "Lohengrin" long
before Beck had studied it, and still listen and weep when he sings it. Do finish your "Valkyrie"
as soon as possible. What a work!

Write to us soon. You say that H. does not know what the matter is. Who does when the matter
is something beautiful and grand? When a sculptor wants to make a beautiful statue, he takes
granite or marble and wearies his strength in cutting it, but granite and marble are less hard
than the heart of man. The sculptor, unless he dies, finishes his statue; when a noble thing
has to be done, men are less pliable than granite and marble.

Liszt is indefatigable. He is wholly devoted to your courage and hope. I cannot tell you sufficiently
how your dear letter has rejoiced me.

C.

164.

X.'s strong box resists a siege even more obstinately than does Silistria; storming it will
do no good, and I have consequently nothing satisfactory to tell you. Returning here, I find
a letter from Hulsen, definitely declining the performance of "Tannhauser" at Berlin, and winding
up with the following flourish: "It is obvious that, after two vain attempts to produce this
work at the Royal Theatre, the management will not undertake a third as long as I have the
honour of being at the head of it. I am sorry for this."

From another source I hear, however, that the matter is not to remain in this negative stage,
and that in the very highest quarters there is a wish to call me to Berlin. The event must
show; for the present I have only written a few lines in reply to Hulsen.

What is all this story about the Musical Festival? Why did you bolt? Let me know when you happen
to be in the mood.

After the Rotterdam festival I stayed a few days at Brussels to meet my two daughters.

As soon as my large arrears of correspondence are disposed of, I shall settle down to my "Faust,"
which is to be ready by the new year. The other things (symphonic poems) will also be in print
by that time.

I still feel very much fatigued after my hurried journey, and my personal regret at not being
able to serve you makes me curtail these lines still further. Ah! good heavens! what can I
say to you while

La vergogna dura

and while there is no means of removing that vergogna?

Your

F. L.

July 28th, 1854.

165.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Did you really think for a moment that I had conceived the idea of giving concerts in order
to make propaganda for myself, or to make music, or what not? Did you not see at once that
this plan was purely the result of despair at my miserable pecuniary situation, and that the
only question that required an answer was whether or not I could make money by it, money in
return for an unheard-of sacrifice, an act of self-abnegation, which probably I should not
have been able to go through with after all? How badly I must have expressed myself! Excuse
me for having given rise to such a misunderstanding, and be thanked all the more for the trouble
you took nevertheless.

My dear, worthy friend, how proud and happy was I not three years ago, before I had done anything
out of keeping with the full consciousness of my antagonistic position towards our artistic
publicity. When at that time you, with your friendly anxiety, were intent upon getting "public
recognition" for me and a wider field for my works, I used to smile and guard myself against
every temptation. But the demon took hold of me; in my terribly bare life, my inclination began
to grow again towards some of the amenities of existence; I yielded to temptation, surrendered
my scores, was surprised at their success, and--hoped. I now curse this hope. I feel humiliated
before myself, because I seek in vain release from this grief of self-reproach.

Hulsen has told X. that the whole thing in connection with me was DONE. Fortunately I was able
to comfort X. with the thought that HE had not done it; but Hulsen is right: the thing is "done
for." What finally could enlighten me better as to the truth and genuineness of my successes
than the fact that in the very places where they had been gained, and with every conceivable
trouble, the loan of--I must speak plainly--1,000 thalers could not be raised amongst my "admirers?"
This very trivial matter speaks volumes to me.

Pray, dearest Franz, do not talk to me of my fame, my honours, my position, or whatever the
name may be. I am positively certain that all my "successes" are based on BAD, very BAD, performances
of my works, that they therefore rest on misunderstandings, and that my public reputation is
not worth an empty nutshell. Let us give up all diplomatic contrivances, this dealing with
means which we despise for ends which, closely considered, can never be achieved, least of
all by those means. Let us leave alone this COTERIE, this connection with idiots who in a body
have no notion of what we really aim at. I ask you, What satisfaction, what pleasure, can we
derive from the assistance of all these silly people, whatever their names may be? I sometimes
cannot understand your ironical enjoyment of life, which gets over your disgust at these people
by making fun of them. Away with all this stuff, this "glory," this nonsense! We live at a
time when glory can bring neither joy nor honour.

Listen to me: "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" I have thrown to the winds; I do not want to know
any more of them. When I gave them over to theatrical jobbery, I cast them out, I condemned
them to the task of begging for me, of getting me money, NOTHING BUT MONEY. Even for that purpose
I should not like to employ them if I were not compelled to do so. After the insight which
I have gained this summer, I should willingly submit to the penance of selling all my goods
and chattels, and go, naked as I am, into the wide world, where--I swear it to you--no illusion
should tempt me any more. But my wife could not bear such a violent step again; I know it would
kill her. Well then, FOR HER SAKE I am resolved to go on. "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" must
go to the Jews. But I am unable to wait and see how much more they might bring me in in certain
patiently looked-for contingencies than now, when I am compelled to get rid of them at any
price, and the sooner the better. Tell me, dearest friend, how do matters stand at Berlin?
Did you merely rely upon making our condition plausible to Herr von Hulsen, or had you prepared
other means of securing your honourable invitation to Berlin? I am almost inclined to believe
the latter, and to hope in consequence that you will soon be able to announce our triumph.
The want of Berlin for my operas involves the delay of the rest of the business, and I assure
you that the spreading of my operas is entirely a matter of BUSINESS to me. This is the only
real point; all the rest is, and remains, fictitious. Let us not attempt to look upon the matter
in any serious light except as regards money. I should despise myself if I paid any attention
to anything beyond this. For me the song of the "world" was sung to an end long ago.

And do you know what has confirmed me in this sentiment, inspiring me with new pride? It is
YOUR WORK ABOUT THE "FLYING DUTCHMAN." In this series of articles I have once more clearly
recognized myself, and have come to the conclusion that we have nothing in common with this
world. WHO DID EVER UNDERSTAND ME? You, and no one else. Who understands YOU? I, and no one
else. Be sure of it. You, for the first and only time, have disclosed to me the joy of being
wholly understood. My being has passed into yours; not a fibre, not the gentlest tremor of
my heart, remains that you have not felt with me. But I also see that THIS ALONE means being
really understood, while all else is misunderstanding and barren error. What do I want more
after having experienced this? What do you want of me after having experienced this with me?
Let the tear of a beloved woman mingle with this joy, and what else can we desire? Do not let
us desecrate our own selves. Let us look upon the world through the medium of contempt alone.
It is worth nothing else; to found any hope on it would be deceiving our own hearts; it is
BAD, BAD, THOROUGHLY BAD: only the heart of a FRIEND, the tears of a woman, can dispel its
curse. We do not respect the world. Its honour, its glory, or by whatever name its shams may
be called, are nothing to us. It belongs to Alberich, to no one else. Let it perish! I have
said enough; you now know my sentiment, which is not a momentary emotion, but as firm and solid
as adamant. That sentiment alone gives me strength to drag on the burden of life. But I must
henceforth cling to it inexorably. I have a deadly hatred of all APPEARANCE, of all hope, for
it is self-deception. But I will work; you shall have my scores; they will belong to us, to
no one else. That is enough. You have the "Rhinegold," have you not? I have got to the second
act of the "Valkyrie": Wotan and Fricka. I shall succeed, you will see.

Farewell.

Are you going to write to my wife?

My cordial remembrances!

(What the other people write I cannot bear to read any longer. I only read your "Dutchman"
article; that is the reward, the pride, of my life.)

Farewell.

Your

R. W.

166.

Zurich, September 16th, 1854

Do you know how I can manage to arrange some concerts at Brussels and perhaps two Dutch towns,
such as I gave last year at Zurich, and do you think that by such an undertaking I might make
10,000 francs in cash? Can you make arrangements so that my offer may be readily met, and that
my programme may be translated into French and Dutch? If you can answer these questions satisfactorily,
kindly take the matter in hand as soon as possible. I must earn money at once. No theatre has
asked for my operas; nothing is stirring; I seem to be quite forgotten. If I could bring back
money from Belgium and Holland, I might probably resume my work. For the present all music
has been laid aside.

Your medallion is very beautiful. Many thanks. I care for nothing else, and for good reasons.

Always your faithful

Richard 167.

DEAREST FRANZ,

My wife is going to Germany, in the first instance on a visit to her parents. At present she
is with Alwine Frommann, Berlin (10, Linden). In a week's time at the latest she will be in
Leipzig (at A.'s, Windmuhlengasse). From there she will return via Frankfort. If she could
hear one of my operas--"Lohengrin" of course in preference--at Weimar, she would like to stop
a day there. If you can manage this, kindly write to her at Berlin or Leipzig, or, in case
you can let me know BY RETURN, write to ME at Zurich, so that I can advise her in time.

From H. you will have in a few days the score of "Rhinegold", which I sent to him in separate
pieces for the purpose of having a copy made at Dresden. But as I have recently finished a
clean copy myself, I cannot bear the thought that the work should not yet be in YOUR HANDS.
I did not want to let you have the fragments, for I consider it an important and significant
event to place the WHOLE in your hands. Keep it for a month, to have a look at it occasionally;
after that I shall ask you to return it for a time, so as to get the complete copy done.

My best love to Daniel, the foolish boy.

I write nothing else, either about myself or about your article. If I once began about these
two things, I should not know where to stop. It is a great pity that I did not see you this
year. Altogether I feel so boundlessly miserable that I begin to despise myself for bearing
this misery. Enough. Farewell.

The worker in plaster-of-Paris has not yet returned your medallion; the margin was a little
damaged. Why do you keep the "Indian fairy tale" to yourself? I have plenty of prosaic things
around me, and could find a place for it.

My best remembrances to the Princess.

Your

RICHARD.

ZURICH, September 29th, 1854.

168.

DEAR FRANZ,

I begin to find out more and more that you are in reality a great philosopher, while I appear
to myself a hare-brained fellow. Apart from slowly progressing with my music, I have of late
occupied myself exclusively with a man who has come like a gift from heaven, although only
a literary one, into my solitude. This is Arthur Schopenhauer, the greatest philosopher since
Kant, whose thoughts, as he himself expresses it, he has thought out to the end. The German
professors ignored him very prudently for forty years; but recently, to the disgrace of Germany,
he has been discovered by an English critic. All the Hegels, etc., are charlatans by the side
of him. His chief idea, the final negation of the desire of life, is terribly serious, but
it shows the only salvation possible. To me of course that thought was not new, and it can
indeed be conceived by no one in whom it did not pre- exist, but this philosopher was the first
to place it clearly before me. If I think of the storm of my heart, the terrible tenacity with
which, against my desire, it used to cling to the hope of life, and if even now I feel this
hurricane within me, I have at least found a quietus which in wakeful nights helps me to sleep.
This is the genuine, ardent longing for death, for absolute unconsciousness, total non-existence;
freedom from all dreams is our only final salvation.

In this I have discovered a curious coincidence with your thoughts; and although you express
them differently, being religious, I know that you mean exactly the same thing. How profound
you are! In your article about the "Dutchman" you have struck me with the force of lightning.
While I read Schopenhauer I was with you, only you did not know it. In this manner I ripen
more and more. I only play with art to pass the time. In what manner I try to amuse myself
you will see from the enclosed sheet.

For the sake of that most beautiful of my life-dreams "Young Siegfried," I shall have to finish
the "Nibelungen" pieces after all; the "Valkyrie" has taken so much out of me that I must indulge
in this pleasure; I have got as far as the second half of the last act. The whole will not
be finished till 1856; and in 1858, the tenth year of my Hegira, the performance may take place,
if at all.

When you have had enough of "Rhinegold," send it to Chorusmaster Fischer at Dresden, instructing
him in my name to give it to the copyist Wolfel, so that he may finish the copy which he has
begun. Your cheering words about the "Rhinegold" were splendid, and it has really turned out
well. I hope there will be enough counterpoint in it to please Raff. My anxiety as to this
troubles me very much.

Is M. ill? How can I do anything to help her? She should come in the summer to Seelisberg,
on the lake of Lucerne. It is the dearest discovery I have made in Switzerland; up there all
is so joyful, so beautiful, that I long to return--to die there.

There we must meet next summer; I mean to write "Young Siegfried" there, and you must assist
me. Perhaps I shall assist you too. How full my heart is when I think of it! Many thanks to
the Princess; at her desire, I send the enclosed autograph. Nothing about business! What do
we care about such miserable things? When shall I see your symphonic poems, your "Faust?"

Farewell, my Franz.

169.

Brynhild sleeps; I am, alas! still awake.

Today I was asked, on the part of the Philharmonic Society of London, whether I should be inclined
to conduct its concerts this year. I asked in return, (1) Have they got a second conductor
for the commonplace things? and (2) Will the orchestra have as many rehearsals as I may consider
necessary? If they satisfy me as to all this, shall I accept then? If I could make a little
money without disgrace, I should be pleased enough. Write to me at once what you think of this.

How are you otherwise? 170

First of all, dearest friend, my best wishes for the new year 1855! May it turn out luckier
for us than its predecessors have been.

I have permitted myself a little indiscretion in Brendel's paper, and have written for the
specimen number of the journal (which is going to have a new publisher), as well as for the
first number of the new year, a few columns about your "Rhinegold." I hope you will not be
angry with me. My intention was good, and it will do no harm to draw a little public attention
to the matter. The score I shall one of these days send to Fischer at Dresden, according to
your instructions.

The offer of the Philharmonic Society is very acceptable, and your friends will be pleased
with it. You do not say whether it is the Old Philharmonic Society or the New Philharmonic
Society which has invited you. The latter Berlioz conducted for one or two seasons, in conjunction
with Dr. Wylde, a protege of one of the chief shareholders of that Society, whose name I forget.
In both Societies you will find a numerous orchestra and ample materials. You will know how
to bring life into them and to do something extraordinary. If I can possibly get away from
here, I shall perhaps visit you in London during the season. In the meantime let me know something
more about this Philharmonic business, which will probably turn out to your satisfaction. I
recommend you, by your leave, some caution, and the tedious but useful method of waiting.

I have heard nothing from Berlin, and shall write to Alwine Frommann before long. Our theatre
will not be able to perform your works for several months to come. Frau von Milde is in interesting
circumstances, and cannot appear before the middle of April, and our public would tolerate
no other Elizabeth, Elsa, or Senta. Besides this, our first tenor has lost his voice, and will
be replaced next month by C., who sang "Tannhauser" here in November on trial.

I expect Berlioz about the middle of February. Do you know the score of his "Damnation de Faust?"

My "Faust" symphony is finished. There are three movements: "Faust," "Gretchen," and "Mephistopheles."
I shall bring it to you at Zurich next summer.

Remember me to your wife, and continue to love

Your

F. L.

January 1st, 1855.

The Princess sends her thanks and congratulations.

171.

DEAR FRANZ,

I am able today to send you particulars about London. Mr. Anderson, treasurer of the Philharmonic
Society and conductor of the Queen's band, came specially to Zurich to arrange the matter with
me. I did not like the idea much, for it is not my vocation to go to London and conduct Philharmonic
concerts, not even for the purpose of producing some of my compositions, as is their wish.
I have written nothing for concerts. On the other hand, I felt distinctly that it was necessary
for me to turn my back once for all upon every hope and every desire of taking an active part
in our own artistic life, and for that reason I accepted the hand held out to me.

London is the only place in the world where I can make it possible to produce "Lohengrin" myself
while the kings and princes of Germany have something else to do than grant me my amnesty.
It would please me very much if I could induce the English people next year to get up a splendid
German opera with my works, patronised by the court. I admit that my best introduction for
that purpose will be my appointment as conductor of the Philharmonic (THE OLD), and so I consented
at last to the sale of myself, although I fetched a very low price: 200 pounds for four months.
I shall be in London at the beginning of March to conduct eight concerts, the first of which
takes place March 12th, and the last June 25th. At the beginning of July I shall be at Seelisberg.
It would be splendid if you could visit me in London; in any case I must produce something
of yours there. Consider this.

Do not forget Joachim; when I am once in London, I can easily arrange the matter.

It is splendid that you have finished "Faust," and you may imagine that I am most anxious to
see it; on the other hand, it is a pity that you will not show it me sooner. At the same time,
I shall be glad to go through it WITH YOU at the piano, and to make its acquaintance in that
way, seeing that my attendance at a good performance under your direction is for the present
out of the question. The vivid idea which you know how to convey cannot even approximately
be replaced by anything else; and I am more than ever intent upon getting the right impression
from the first, for I greatly distrust acquaintances made by means of the abstract notes.

It is an absurd coincidence that just at this time I have been taken with a desire to remodel
my old "Faust" overture. I have made an entirely new score, have rewritten the instrumentation
throughout, have made many changes, and have given more expansion and importance to the middle
portion (second motive). I shall give it in a few days at a concert here, under the title of
"A 'Faust' Overture." The motto will be--

"Der Gott, der mir im Busen wohnt, Kann tief mein Innerstes erregen; Der uber allen meinen
Kraften thront, Er kann nach aussen nichts bewegen; Und so ist mir das Dasein eine Last, Der
Tod erwunscht, das Leben mir verhasst!"

but I shall not publish it in any case.

I was at first startled at your new year's article, but soon perceived that here again I am
indebted to your ever-increasing sympathy. If, however, you represent my work as something
colossal, you mistake, in my opinion, the standard of measurement; to me our artistic publicity,
the spirit of our means of representation, etc., appear to be very small and miserable, while
my work is just in accordance with ordinary human proportions, and appears gigantic only when
we try to confine it to those unworthy conditions. When therefore we call our plan chimaeric
and eccentric, we in reality flatter the actual worthlessness of our artistic publicity, and
in a manner mark it as the just and rational measure. We should not give that wrong impression
to people. Every one of your letters is worth to me gold, and more, but ANSWERS in the proper
sense I scarcely ever receive from you, and you treat many of my questions as if they had never
been asked. Instead of that you always give me something new; that is splendid, but an answer
also would sometimes be useful.

Well, let me hear something good of you soon, and in London let me SEE you. I shall take my
work with me, and hope to finish the instrumentation of the "Valkyrie" there.

Adieu, dearest Franz.

How are you? Best remembrances from my wife and many greetings from me to you all.

Your

R. W.

ZURICH, January 19th, 1855.

172.

DEAREST RICHARD,

The London Philharmonic comes in very aptly, and I am delighted. As lately as six months ago
people used to shake their heads, and some of them even hissed, at the performance of the "Tannhauser"
overture, conducted by Costa. Klindworth and Remeny were almost the only ones who had the courage
to applaud and to beard the Philistines who had made their nests of old in the Philharmonic.
Well, it will now assume a different tone, and you will revivify old England and the Old Philharmonic.
I commend to you Klindworth, a Wagnerian DE LA VEILLE. He is an excellent musician, who formerly
acted as conductor at Hanover, and there gave a performance of the "Prophet" at the Tivoli
Theatre, of which the newspapers were full some years ago. He is also a splendid pianist, who
studied eighteen months with me at Weymar, and you must allow me to send Klindworth a few lines
of introduction to you. As far as I know, there is in London no pianist like him; but, on account
of his determined and open sympathy with the so-called "music of the future," he has placed
himself in a somewhat awkward position towards the Philistines and handicraftsmen there.

I was present at the first performance of "Tannhauser" at Gotha. Capellmeister Lampert had
taken much trouble, as had also Beer (Tannhauser), and the performance was, comparatively speaking,
very satisfactory. The musical part is better with us, but it is different with the dresses
and scenery, which are much more tasteful at Gotha than at Weymar. I have spoken very strongly
on that point here; and as my prayers and admonitions in this respect have so far been of little
avail, I am determined not to conduct "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" again until the necessary
improvements in the scenery have been made. This negative measure, which I had kept in reserve,
will probably be effective. In the meantime our opera remains in a stagnant condition. Since
the last performance of "Tannhduser" (December 10th), I have not been at my desk, neither shall
I conduct the festival performance of "Belisario" on February 16th. Nothing can be done till
after the confinement of Frau Milde.

APROPOS, what do you think of Meffert, the tenor? Would he be any good to us, and how old is
he? Write to me about this.

You accuse me in your last letter of rarely giving you an answer. This alludes, I presume,
to two things: Berlin and Dresden. Alas! alas! I cannot report from either place what I should
wish and, in spite of all, still hope to report. With wranglings and trifles I do not care
to trouble you.

Stop; one thing I forgot to write to you: your "Tristan" is a splendid idea; it may become
a glorious work. Do not abandon it.

You were quite right in arranging a new score of your "Faust" overture. If you have succeeded
in making the middle part a little more pliable, this work, significant as it was before, must
have gained considerably. Be kind enough to have a copy made, and send it me AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
There will probably be some orchestral concerts here, and I should like to give this overture
at the end of February.

Hartel is having the scores of Nos. 3 and 4 of my symphonic poems ("Les Preludes" and "Orpheus")
engraved. I am as yet uncertain whether I shall publish the nine pieces together or these two
numbers (3 and 4) in advance. In any case I shall send you the proofs of "Les Preludes" and
"Orpheus" before your departure to London, so that my scribbling may amuse you too. I am sincerely
grateful for your friendly proposal of producing something of mine at the Philharmonic, but
I think it will be more advisable to leave it till next season (1856). For the present you
will have your hands full enough with your own things, and during the first year you ought
to play a waiting game. The chief thing for you is to gain firm ground in London, and first
of all to impress your conception of Beethoven, Gluck, etc., on the orchestra and the public.
At the same time, the people should learn to listen to and understand the "Tannhauser" and
"Faust" overtures, and finally to rejoice in and be elevated by the prelude to "Lohengrin."
Your plan of conducting next year performances of "Tannhauser," "Lohengrin," and the "Flying
Dutchman" with efficient artists is very good. We talked about this at Weymar in the year 1849;
and, in my opinion, the enterprise can be made to succeed completely. This year must serve
you as a preparation; and when you are once accustomed to London air, it may be expected that
you will settle there comfortably. Beware of the theatrical speculators, who will be sure to
try and make the best of you, and might be dangerous both to your purse and to your position.
Once more, good luck!

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, January 25th, 1855.

Best remembrances to your wife. For the first year she will, I suppose, remain at Zurich.

Do not keep me waiting too long for a letter, and send me your "Faust." The Princess and the
Child greet you cordially.

I shall send you in a few days an English translation of your three opera poems in manuscript;
it may be of use to you in London.

173.

Herewith, dearest Franz, you receive my remodelled "Faust" overture, which will appear very
insignificant to you by the side of your "Faust" symphony. To me the composition is interesting
only on account of the time from which it dates; this reconstruction has again endeared it
to me: and with regard to the latter, I am childish enough to ask you to compare it very carefully
with the first version, because I should like you to take cognisance of the effect of my experience
and of the more refined feeling I have gained. In my opinion, new versions of this kind show
most distinctly the spirit in which one has learned to work and the coarsenesses which one
has cast off. You will be better pleased with the middle part. I was of course unable to introduce
a new motive, because that would have involved a remodelling of almost the whole work; all
I was able to do was to develop the sentiment a little more broadly, in the form of a kind
of enlarged cadence. Gretchen of course could not be introduced, only Faust himself:--

"ein unbegreiflich holder Drang, trieb mich durch Wald und Wiesen hin," etc

The copying has unfortunately been done very badly, and probably there are many mistakes in it.

If some one were to PAY ME WELL for it, I might still be inclined to publish it. Will you try
the Hartels for me? A little money would be very welcome in London, so that I might the better
be able to save something there. Please see to this. All this, however, is only the prelude
to your "Faust" symphony, to which I look forward with infinite pleasure. I have nothing further
to tell you, except that I have been fool enough to take more trouble about a performance of
"Tannhauser" at the local theatre than had been my intention. It will take place tomorrow,
and, considering the miserable conditions, will turn out fairly well. But I shall not conduct.
Cordial thanks for your pieces of advice, which have my full approval. I intend to appear in
London only as a conductor, and to be very tough about my compositions.

The score of the first act of the "Valkyrie" will soon be ready; it is wonderfully beautiful.
I have done nothing like it or approaching it before. My complaint that you seldom ANSWER me
in the proper sense of the word you have misunderstood. It did not refer to EXTERNAL matters,
like Dresden and Berlin, but exclusively to INTERNAL ones, for which I thought I had given
you plenty of material.

After having been in Paris together, should we not try to meet in London also? How can we manage
it? And how about the translation? I am looking forward to it with immense pleasure, and shall
use it for learning English after all. Shall I receive it here?

I start on the 25th. If you find it necessary to write to me at once at London, address to
Ferdinand Prager, 31, Milton Street, Dorset Square. I shall stay with him till I have found
a convenient lodging. Could you give me an introduction to the London Erard and ask him to
put a nice grand piano in my room? I shall be glad to see Klindworth. Farewell for today. Give
me another pleasure soon, and remember me at home.

Your

R. W.

174.

Pardon me, dearest Franz, for writing a few lines to ask you a favour. I did not communicate
with you before because I waited for the copy of my "Faust" overture to be ready. I expect
it in a few days, and shall send it you at once, together with a proper letter. For today only
the following:--

The French ambassador is going to give me his vise [i.e. the French term for "visa"] of my
passport through France after repeated applications in Paris, but this is subject to all manner
of chicanery, which is disgusting to me, and must be got out of the way, so that in future
I may be able to pass without difficulty and at any time through and into France. I shall therefore
pay a visit to the Minister of the Interior in Paris, and see whether I can succeed in putting
a stop to these vexations. It would, no doubt, be very useful if some one of the court of Weimar
(no one better than the Grand Duke himself, perhaps through his minister in Paris) could give
me an introduction which would make me favourably known to the people there and teach them
a little reason. I am prepared to make every necessary promise in return. Do see what you can
achieve.

I start in a fortnight; therefore no delay, please.

You will hear in a few days from

Your

R. W.

February 9th, 1855.

175.

DEAREST RICHARD,

The Grand Duke has been in bed for several weeks, and I shall probably not be able to see him
for a fortnight. Apart from this, it will not be quite so easy to settle offhand the matter
you have entrusted to me, but I promise that I shall not fail to take the proper steps, and
I hope to send you satisfactory news within twelve days or a fortnight. Berlioz has been here
since Sunday, and is busily engaged conducting rehearsals for the performance of his "Trilogie
Sacree" ("L'Enfance du Christ") and his "Symphonic Phantastique," including the second part
thereof, which he calls a monodrame lyrique. I send you programme and libretto.

He tells me that he is not going to London till May, and will conduct only two concerts of
the New Philharmonic. As a kind of prelude to the Paris "Exposition Universelle", he will perform
his Te Deum on the 1st of May in the Church of St. Eustache.

During this week of the year we are generally in a state of great confusion. Six years ago,
on the 16th of February, "Tannhauser" was performed for the first time, and on the same date
two years ago the "Flying Dutchman;" for today "Belisario" is announced, which at any rate
I prefer to the silly "Le Macon," which has been the delight of Dresden and Weymar during the
winter. Even some of our friends were simple enough to call this rotten musique de portieres
charming and a model of its kind.

The Cologne people have done better than this: they have bravely swallowed "Lohengrin" without
choking over it. This has delighted me. From Hamburg also I hear that the public are gradually
being educated up to it.

How far have you got with the "Valkyrie?"

Difficult as I find it to part with your "Rhinegold," I promise to send the score to Fischer
in a few days. He can send me the pianoforte arrangement later on.

My best remembrances to your wife. I shall soon write again, and also hope to hear from you.

Most thine own, F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, February 16th, 1855.

176.

These lines, most incomparable friend, are intended to introduce to you Carl Klindworth, about
whom I have spoken and written to you several times. You will find him an excellent musician
and pianist, who is cordially devoted to you, and has not in vain lived several years with
me at Weymar. Since last year he has been settled in London, where I cordially commend him
to your protection.

Your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, February 16th, 1855.

177.

DEAREST, DEAREST LISZT,

Pray let me have the LETTER TO ERARD for which I asked you concerning the piano.

More after the concert.

178.

DEAREST RICHARD,

You have entirely forgotten to let me have your address; and although your fame has reached
the point of immortality, it is just possible that the London postmen might have heard nothing
of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin." Be kind enough therefore to tell me in your next letter the
street and the number of the house.

These lines you receive through Klindworth. Enclosed is the letter to the maison Erard, which
is represented in London by M. Bruzot. If Erard himself should be there, pay him a visit at
once, but I doubt whether he is sufficiently recovered to occupy himself with pianoforte and
harp matters. A few months ago my children wrote to me from Paris that Erard was very ill,
and, after fruitless trials of baths and medicines, had been taken to a private hospital.

I have not neglected your passport affair, and have induced the Grand Duke and another important
person to recommend you specially in Paris. I hope these transactions will not be without result.

The changes you have made in the "Faust" overture are excellent, and the work has decidedly
gained by them. I have sent the score to the Hartels. If you are satisfied with an honorarium
of twenty louis d'or, write to me simply, "Yes," and the full score and parts will soon be
published. To a larger honorarium the Hartels would not agree, but they will make the edition
better and handsomer than would any one else, and I should therefore advise you to answer me
in the affirmative.

I shall have to work hard for several months to come. The Cardinal Primate of Hungary has set
me the task of composing a grand mass for the inauguration of the cathedral of Gran. The ceremony
will take place in August at the latest. The Emperor will be present, and I have undertaken
to conduct the mass, etc., for which purpose I have to be in Gran (three hours' distance from
Pesth) a month before.

This task gives me much pleasure, and I hope to produce an edifying work.

Farewell, dearest Richard, and write soon to

Your

FRANZ.

March 12th, 1855.

The letter to Bruzot is meant for the FIRM of Erard; if he should be absent, give it to the
representative of that firm.

Your letter to B. has been forwarded.

179.

Good gracious! here comes your and M.'s dear, dear letter! In my terrible mood, it has quite
upset me. You will have heard of my letter containing my disgraceful decision regarding "Tannhauser"
in Berlin. In this matter I feel in turns trivial, sublime, and contemptible. The latter mood
you have just revived in me, and I am inclined to repent that I have been trivial. But it is
almost too late now. By giving up "Tannhauser," and at last even "Lohengrin," to the theatres
without reserve, I made such humiliating concessions to the reality of our miserable artistic
circumstances that I can scarcely sink much lower. ONCE AGAIN I say, How proud and free was
I when I reserved these works to YOU for Weimar; now I am a slave and absolutely powerless.
One inconsistency involves another, and I can dull my unpleasant feeling only by being still
more proud and contemptuous, in the sense that I look upon "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" as
altogether done with and no longer belonging to me, and that I keep my NEW CREATIONS all the
more sacred for myself and my true friends. This is my only comfort. What I am creating at
present shall never see the light except in perfectly congenial surroundings; on this I will
in future concentrate all my strength, my pride, and my RESIGNATION. If I die before having
produced these works, I shall leave them to you; and if you die without having been able to
produce them in a dignified manner, you must burn them: let that be SETTLED.

Klindworth has probably not yet had time to write to you about my first appearance, but he
is going to do so.

After the first rehearsal the directors of the "Philharmonic" were so delighted and full of
hope that they insisted upon my performing some of my compositions at the very next concert.
I had to yield, and chose the pieces from "Lohengrin." As for that purpose they granted me
two rehearsals, I also fixed upon the "Ninth Symphony", at which I am pleased, for I should
not have given it with one rehearsal. The orchestra, which has taken a great liking to me,
is very efficient, and possesses great skill and fairly quick intelligence, but it is quite
spoilt as regards expression; there is no PIANO, no NUANCE. It was astonished and delighted
at my way of doing things. With two further rehearsals I hope to put it tolerably in order.
But then this hope and my intercourse with the orchestra are all that attracts me here; beyond
this all, all is indifferent and disgusting to me. The public, however, have distinguished
me very much, both in receiving me and even more at the close. Curious to me was the confession
of some Mendelssohnians that they had never heard and understood the overture to the "Hebrides"
as well as under my direction.

Enough of this.

Many thanks for your introduction to Bruzot; I long for a piano and for my work. To the Grand
Duke also I am much indebted.

Let the Hartels have my "Faust" overture by all means. If they could turn the twenty louis
d'or into twenty pounds, I should be glad. In any case they ought to send the money here as
soon as possible. I do not like to dun the "Philharmonic" for my fee, and therefore want money.
The proofs of the score they must also send to me for correction.

The publication of this overture is, no doubt, a weakness on my part, of which you will soon
make me thoroughly ashamed by your "FAUST" symphony. When shall I hear something of that? I
am afraid my chances of seeing you here have declined, since you write about this "Hungarian"
commission. I can imagine how the invitation has pleased you; and I too am pleased and most
curious to see your work. But when shall I see something of all this, you reticent person?
Do you not feel how I must long for such cordials amongst the trivial surroundings in which
I always live? I must confess, however, that I always prefer becoming acquainted with your
creations through yourself. In that manner everything is disclosed to me at once that otherwise
I have to disclose to myself painfully. This happened to me in the case of your "KUNSTLER",
while all that you gave me yourself at the piano at once penetrated me by dint of unconditional
and perfect artistic enjoyment.

When shall we see each other, you most amiable and noblest of men?

Most stupidly I was unable at "Paris" to remember the address of your children, nor could I
think of "Belloni's" address. By taxing my memory I went half mad. Now, stupid fool that I
am, it occurs to me that I need only have gone to "Erard's." In this manner I deprived myself
of the pleasure of seeing them once more, which grieves me very much. Please let me have the
address for my return journey.

A thousand thanks to dear M. for her beautiful and kind lines. You all appear to me like a
family of saints. Ah, we are all holy martyrs; perhaps I shall one day be a real one, but in
that case all will be over for me with art--that beautiful delusion, the last and the most
sublime, to hide from us the misery of the world.

Farewell, dear, glorious friend.

Remember me cordially at home, and continue to love me.

22, PORTLAND TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, LONDON.

180

22, PORTLAND TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, LONDON.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I am in the absurd position of having to demand of you a friendly service of a peculiar kind.
I CANNOT delay the Berlin "Tannhauser" affair any longer; my pecuniary position is so unfortunate
that I cannot afford to forego the hope of Berlin receipts. Hulsen has applied to me once more,
through Alwine Frommann, and, as he says, for the last time. He promises all manner of things;
the opera is to be given in the autumn, and the preparations are to begin as early as the spring.
I must adopt the "trivial" view of this matter, the same view which unfortunately I am compelled
to take of the entire fate of my operas. In spite of D. conducting, "Tannhauser" will probably
have the same kind of effect in Berlin which it has had every where else; to connect higher
hopes with it seems vain. Let the matter therefore take the only course which apparently is
open to it, but I regret very much that you have wasted so much trouble and submitted to so
many stupid things in endeavouring to accomplish the condition made by me. We are, as we now
see, powerless.

The fate which we must expect is, after all, the COMMON LOT. Our best efforts always appear
before the world in a truncated and distorted form. I am going to write to Alwine Frommann
that she is to accept Hulsen's offer without further conditions and to tell him that this has
been your advice. The truth is that in this manner you will avoid a struggle which, in my opinion,
would be fruitless.

Klindworth, for whom I am grateful to you, will probably write to you about my doings in London;
I can only say that I do not exactly see what I am here for. The only interesting thing to
me is the orchestra, which has taken a great liking to me, and believes in me with enthusiasm.
By that means I shall at least be able to have a few good performances, to which the people
are quite unaccustomed. All other things, especially public, press, etc., are very indifferent
to me. The directors insisted upon my performing some pieces from "Lohengrin" and the Ninth
Symphony as early as the second concert, and granted me TWO rehearsals for the purpose.

I am still without a piano. I long to resume my work. WHERE and WHEN shall I see you again?

Taken all in all, I am VERY, very depressed. I am disgusted with the world.

Adieu. Remember me to all at Altenburg; and if you can, continue to love me. 181

DEAREST RICHARD,

It would have been difficult to make Hartel consent to the change of louis d'or into pounds,
and after considering the matter I simply wrote to him that you had left the "Faust" overture
to me, and that in your name I accepted the honorarium of twenty louis d'or, asking him at
the same time to send you that little sum to London.

We will not let our hair turn grey over the "Tannhauser" affair at Berlin. I anticipated this
all along, although, for my part, I could not and did not wish to bring it about. I do not
grudge your Berlin friends the satisfaction which this issue of the affair will give them,
and hope that many other occasions will turn up on which I shall not be superfluous or inconvenient
to you.

The day before yesterday I sent the score of the "Rhinegold" (beautifully bound) to W. Fischer
at Dresden.

Has B. finished the pianoforte arrangement? In that case I would ask him to let me have it
later on, and at my next visit you will sing and represent the whole to me.

I am hard at work at my Mass, of which the Kyrie and Gloria are already finished.

Apart from this, I have to conduct many rehearsals.

Schumann's "Genoveva" will be performed on April 9th, and will give me another opportunity
of studying and conducting an opera, which I have not done for the last four months.

Next Sunday (April 1st) the oratorio "Die Verklarung des Herrn", by Kuhnsted, professor at
Eisenach and organist of Wartburg in spe, will be given at the theatre; and on April 2Oth Raff
is going to give a concert, at which half a dozen of his larger compositions--amongst others,
an orchestral suite, the hundred and twenty-first Psalm, a violin concerto, etc.--will make
up the entire programme.

This is the musical news of Weymar, which probably will be of less interest to you than to
me. Of my life, my hope, my endurance, I have nothing to say that is cheerful....

Whether the great political event, the death of the Emperor, will have a softening influence
on my personal fate, remains questionable. In a few weeks I shall have direct news. Whatever
it may turn out to be, I cannot waver or hesitate. To you, dearest Richard, remains cordially
and invariably attached

Your F.

I am constantly being asked for introductions to you. Generally I refuse them, but in a few
cases I have to yield.

Tell Klindworth he is to write to me about your Philharmonic concerts. His cousin, a very amiable
lady, will shortly bring you news of Weymar, where she has been staying several months.

182. DEAR, GREAT MAN,

For a long time I have been wishing to write to you, but had not the courage to do so. Alas!
how can I speak to you from my heart? Today a sheet of paper with a red border comes under
my hand; so many symbols are comprised in that colour! It is devoted to love, it is the purple
of kings, and the image of human blood. It is therefore suited to both of us: to you as the
emblem of your sovereign genius, to me as that of an ardent attachment, the flames of which
are my happiness and my glory; to both of us as the sign of the wounds which destiny has inflicted
on us without touching our souls. Need I tell you how much I should like to see you again,
and how sincerely I desire that your sojourn in London will be agreeable to you in one way
or another? I can do nothing, nothing, except the best thing of all: to love, to bless, to admire.

Your affection is very dear to us; continue in it; it is the sun of our starless sky.

May God be with you. Our hearts are always yours.

CAROLYNE.

March 27th, 1855.

183.

DEAR FRANZ,

You have punished me in your amiable manner. I reproached myself very much about this Berlin
affair; in any case I was too rash, and settled the matter too quickly after my fashion. I
ought to have asked you, as you were my plenipotentiary, to cede the opera finally to Hulsen;
that would have been better, and you would, no doubt, have undertaken this last transaction
to please me. But the whole matter had long ago become so disgusting to me that I lost all
energy in connection with it, and felt inclined to finish it as abruptly as possible, so as
to hear no more of it. Do not believe that I was brought to this resolution through my "Berlin
friends," but exclusively through my pecuniary position, which is accurately known to you,
and which has tied my hands as to this point. I was COMPELLED to think of raising money. I
have therefore asked for an advance of a hundred louis d'or on account of royalties, and as
to the rest have ceded the opera without any conditions. To tell you the truth, everything
else in connection with my operas has become a matter of perfect indifference to me. Looking
at it carefully, it seems to me that my wish that you should be called to Berlin for the performance
of "Tannhauser" has by no means been frustrated thereby. The decision of this matter was never
really within the power of the intendant of the theatre. The King alone can suspend the usual
order, and HIS decision is quite independent of what the intendant can do on his own authority.
It appears to me therefore that our condition was made to an authority which could not have
granted it. My giving or not giving the opera to the management was a thing apart; and as regards
the invitation to you, this remains a matter which we ought to work with the King direct. Unfortunately
it seems that you have little hope of this. What could be done to get some thing out of the
King after all? Should I have the impudence to write to him and to try in my own way what seems
impossible in any other? The thought of accomplishing my wish after all is the only thing which
suddenly places this Berlin affair once more in an interesting light. What do you think of it?

For your news and for the beautiful lines of the dear Princess I am cordially grateful.

Unfortunately I have nothing reasonable to tell you in return. My whole existence here is a
perfect anomaly. I am in a strange element and in a thoroughly false position. If at Zurich
I conduct symphonies now and then, it is done for the sake of amusement and to please a few
friends; to make a vocation of it, in the sense that I am to be judged as an artist by a wholly
unsympathetic public and press on these grounds, is simply an absurdity. I sincerely regret
that I am here, and shall never in my life come again. Pecuniary success is out of the question;
and even if they were to offer me a larger fee for next year, I should probably feel bound
to decline it: the misery I have to undergo is too great. This is not MY BUSINESS, and if at
my present age, and in the unsettled condition of my health, I cannot at least abide by my
business, I would rather not abide at all; I have quite enough to bear without that.

Perfect performances, which in the long run could alone console me, I cannot achieve. The rehearsals
are too few, and everything is done in too businesslike a manner. Although the pieces from
"Lohengrin" were favourably received, I am sorry that I have given them. My annoyance at being
compelled to produce such trifling specimens of my work and to have my whole being judged thereby
is too great. I also hate like poison to have to take a single step in order to gain the favour
of that wretched pack of journalists. They continue abusing me to their heart's delight, and
the only thing that surprises me is that the public have not so far allowed themselves to be
misled. In short, I would have nothing to do with these contemptible matters even if I happened
to please the people.

Let me finish my "Nibelungen;" that is all I desire. If my noble contemporaries will not help
me to that, they may go to the devil, with all their honour and glory. Through London I have
got into awful arrears with my work; only yesterday was I able to finish the instrumentation
of the first act of the "Valkyie." Body and soul are weighed down as by a load of lead. My
chief wish for this year--to begin "Young Siegfried" at once after my return at Seelisberg--I
shall have to give up, for it is very unlikely that I shall get beyond the second act of the
"Valkyrie" here. Such as I am, I want a soft, clinging element around me, in order to feel
gladly inclined for work. This eternal need of self-condensation for the purpose of self-defence
supplies me with obstinacy and contempt, but not with the love of expansion and production.

Klindworth has probably written to you; at least he was startled when I recently conveyed your
reminder to him. He was ill, and is not doing well here, but how am I to help him? Blackguardism,
obstinacy, and religiously nursed stupidity are here protected with iron walls; only a blackguard
and a Jew can succeed here.

Upon the whole, you were right in retiring to Weimar; as much solitude as possible, that alone
can save us.

The Hartels sent me the bill of exchange yesterday; many thanks. Cannot B. do the pianoforte
arrangement?

He had only just begun the "Rhinegold," when I took the score away from him to send it to you.
As soon as the copy at Dresden has been finished, he is to have it for the completion of the
pianoforte arrangement; and after that, if you wish it, it is to be sent to you. Shall we see
each other this year, perhaps on your return from Hungary? That would be something like it!
Perhaps at that time I should have recovered my voice, which here has disappeared entirely.

Farewell, dearest friend. Patience--that is all that remains to us. Remember me to all at Altenburg.
Much luck to your mass!

Farewell, dear, dear Franz.

184.

Klindworth has just played your great sonata to me.

We passed the day alone together; he dined with me, and after dinner I made him play. Dearest
Franz, you were with me; the sonata is beautiful beyond anything, grand and sweet, deep and
noble, sublime as you are yourself. It moved me most deeply, and the London misery was forgotten
all at once. More I cannot say, not just after having heard it, but of what I say I am as full
as man can be. Once more, you were with me! Ah, could you soon be with me wholly and bodily,
then we might support life beautifully.

Klindworth astonished me by his playing; no lesser man could have ventured to play your work
to me for the first time. He is worthy of you. Surely, surely, it was beautiful.

Good-night. Many thanks for this pleasure vouchsafed to me at last.

Your

R. W.

LONDON, April 5th, 8:30 evening.

185.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I had nothing to tell you that was pleasant or important, and therefore did not write to you
for a long time. During these last weeks I have spun myself into my mass, and yesterday at
last I got it done. I do not know how it will sound, but may say that I have PRAYED it rather
than COMPOSED it. On my return from Hungary in September, I shall bring you the mass and my
symphonic bubbles and troubles, half of which will by that time be in print. If my scores should
bore you, that will not prevent me from deriving sweetest enjoyment from your creations, and
you must not refuse me the favour of singing the whole "Rhinegold" and "Valkyrie" to me. In
the meanwhile all other musical things appear to me "stupid stuff."

How do you feel in London?

Troublesome though it may be, one must try to bear the inevitable and immutable; to take pleasure
in it would be a lie.

The English edition of Philistinism is not a whit pleasanter than the German, and the chasm
between the public and ourselves is equally wide everywhere.

How, in our wretched conditions, could enthusiasm, love, and art have their true effect?

"Patience and resignation" is our device, and to it we sing

[Here, Liszt illustrates with a music score excerpt]

Pardon me for being your hollow echo, and let us endure what cannot be cured.

I am very grateful to you for being so kind to Klindworth. In a few days his cousin will come
to London and bring you news of me, as she has spent the whole winter at Weymar. Your letter
about the sonata has highly delighted me, and you must excuse me for not having thanked you
at once. You are often so near to me that I almost forget writing to you, and I am seldom at
the right temperature for correspondence. Well, in September I shall be with you; and (D.V.)
we will have some bright, comforting days together.

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, May 2nd, 1855.

186.

DEAR POET, DEAR FRIEND,

Our hearts are with you, and suffer with you; that you know, and cannot be ignorant of.

Let us hear from you soon, and forgive me if, in the midst of the preoccupations of your heart
and of your grief, I ask you for a trifle; but it will cost you so little to grant it me, and
you will give such great, such very great, pleasure by it. It is the fate of poets and women
sometimes to give what they have not themselves--I mean happiness. Sign this with your name,
your great name, enclose it in an envelope, address it to me, and put it in the post. Forgive
me for asking you this small thing--small in its material aspect, but great as the world in
its significance.

I press your two hands with mine, dear, dear, great man.

CAROLYNE.

May 7th, 1855.

187.

Cordial thanks, dearest Franz, for your kind note, which I had been expecting a long time.
The hope which you open to me of seeing you in September is my only light in the night of this
sad year. I live here like one of the lost souls in hell. I never thought that I could sink
again so low. The misery I feel in having to live in these disgusting surroundings is beyond
description, and I now realise that it was a sin, a crime, to accept this invitation to London,
which in the luckiest case must have led me far away from my real path. I need not expatiate
to you upon my actual situation. It is the consistent outgrowth of the greatest inconsistency
I ever committed. I am compelled to conduct an English concert programme right down to the
end; that says everything. I have got into the middle of a slough of conventionalities and
customs, in which I stick up to the ears, without being able to lead into it the least drop
of pure water for my recreation. "Sir, we are not accustomed to this"--that is the eternal
echo I hear. Neither can the orchestra recompense me. It consists almost exclusively of Englishmen,
that is clever machines which cannot be got into the right swing; handicraft and business kill
everything. Then there is the public, which, I am assured, is very favourably inclined towards
me, but can never be got out of itself, which accepts the most emotional and the most tedious
things without ever showing that it has received a real impression. And, in addition to this,
the ridiculous Mendelssohn worship!

And even if all this were better than it is, what business have I with such concerts? I am
not fit for them. It is quite a different thing if I conduct one of Beethoven's symphonies
before a few friends, but to be a regular concert conductor, before whom they place the scores
of concert pieces, etc., so that he may beat the time to them--that, I feel, is the deepest
disgrace. This thoroughly inappropriate character of my position led me to the resolution of
sending in my resignation after the fourth concert. But of course I was talked out of it, and
especially my regard for my wife, who would have heard of this sudden resignation and of all
that would have been written about it with great grief, determined me to hold out till the
last concert. The infernal torture this is to me I cannot express. All my pleasure in my work
is disappearing more and more. I had made up my mind to finish the score of the "Valkyrie"
during the four months here, but that is out of the question. I shall not even finish the second
act, in so terribly dispiriting a manner does this false position act upon me. In July I wanted
to begin "Young Siegfried" at Seelisberg, on the lake of Lucerne, but now I think of delaying
that beginning till next spring. This dislike of work is the worst feature of all. I feel as
if with it eternal night were closing around me, for what have I still to do in this world
if I cannot do my work?

Through this hell my study of Dante, to which I could not settle down before, has accompanied
me. I have passed through his Inferno, and am now at the gate of Purgatory. Really I am in
need of this purgatory; for if I consider it rightly, I was brought to London by a really sinful
degree of thoughtlessness, which now I have to repent with fervour. I must, I must be resigned;
my experience long ago convinced me of the necessity of resignation in the widest sense of
the word, and I must now subdue altogether this terrible, wild desire of life, which again
and again dims my vision and throws me into a chaos of contradictions. I must hope that I may
at some future time rise from purgatory to paradise; the fresh air of my Seelisberg will perhaps
help me to this. I do not deny that I should like to meet Beatrice there.

In all other respects things are going badly and crookedly. Poor Klindworth has been ill all
along, and the fact that I could undertake nothing with him has deprived me of a great pleasure.
He is better now, but not yet allowed to take a walk with me. Besides him, my intercourse is
limited to Sainton, the leader of the orchestra, who caused my ill-fated appointment here,
and a certain Luders, who lives with him. Both are ardently devoted to me, and do all in their
power to make my stay here pleasant. Apart from this, I frequently go to Prager. Quite recently
a Mr. Ellerton, a rich amateur, approached me very cordially. He has heard my operas in Germany,
and my portrait has been hanging in his room for two years. He is the first Englishman I have
seen who does not care particularly for Mendelssohn. A fine, amiable mind.

Klindworth has made the pianoforte arrangement of the first act of the "Valkyrie," which he
plays beautifully. Unfortunately I have lost my voice entirely, and can sing very little, so
that I am afraid I shall not be able to be of much service to you in that way.

You will have to do all the work next September. You owe me a great debt, you reticent man.
If I look forward to anything in the future as pure happiness, it is my becoming acquainted
through your means with your new compositions. Do not forget to bring me every one of them.
I congratulate you on your mass from the bottom of my heart. Let us hope that you will derive
much pleasure from it at Gran.

And how is the Princess? Joyful and sorrowful? Does she still preserve her bright enthusiasm?
And Beatrice--I mean the Child? Greet her for me a thousand times.

Farewell, dearest, most unique of friends. Believe me that the thought of you is an ever-new
delight to my heart. Be thanked for your love!

Farewell.

Your

R. W.

LONDON, May 16th, 1855.

188.

22, PORTLAND TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK, LONDON,

May 26th, 1855.

Once more, dearest Franz, I must make a complaint about the "Faust" overture. The Hartels have
sent me an abominable arrangement for four hands, of which I cannot possibly approve. Did not
you tell them that B., who, I believe, had already made a be ginning, would best be able to
make this arrangement? Klindworth also would be prepared for it. In any case it should be a
pianist of that type. The actual arrangement, which I yesterday returned to the Hartels through
a music-seller, must not appear.

However, some wrong notes in this arrangement have drawn my attention to the fact that very
probably there are many errors in the score as well. You will remember that it was a copy which
I sent to you for your own use, asking you to correct such errors as might occur in your mind,
or else to have them corrected, because it would be tedious for me to revise the copy. For
the same reason I urgently requested the Hartels, if they printed the score, to send me a proof.
You are in frequent communication with the Hartels, and the edition of this overture is really
your doing. Be not angry therefore if I ask you to set the matter completely right when convenient.
For heaven's sake, forgive me for troubling you with this trifle. The day after tomorrow I
have my sixth concert, and a month afterwards I start for home.

Shall I hear from you soon?

A thousand greetings.

Your R. W.

189. DEAREST RICHARD,

I returned here yesterday from the Dusseldorf Musical Festival, tired and dull. Hiller, who
conducted the whole, had invited me, and it interested me to go through the whole thing for
once, to hear "Paradise and the Peri," and to applaud Jenny Lind. I need not tell YOU anything
about it, and I am not much the wiser myself. Although the whole festival may be called a great
success, it wanted something which, indeed, could not have been expected from it. In the art
world there are very different kinds of laurels and thistles, but you need care very little
about such. "The eagle flies to the sun."

Then you are reading Dante? He is excellent company for you. I, on my part, shall furnish a
kind of commentary to his work. For a long time I had in my head a Dante symphony, and in the
course of this year it is to be finished. There are to be three movements, HELL, PURGATORY,
and PARADISE, the two first purely instrumental, the last with chorus. When I visit you in
autumn, I shall probably be able to bring it with me; and if you do not dislike it, you must
allow me to inscribe it with your name.

With the Hartels little can be done. If the arrangement for four hands of the Faust overture
has already been made, I do not advise you to propose some one else. The only thing that can
be done with the four-hand arrangement is to ask Klindworth to make some corrections in accordance
with your instructions, and to have some of the plates newly engraved without mentioning Klindworth's
name on the title-page. Another time it would be a practical thing to send in the four-hand
arrangement together with the score, and to come to terms with the publisher about it.

The attitude of the Hartels towards us is naturally always a little reserved. I, for my part,
cannot complain of them, and they have always treated me in a decent and gentlemanly manner.
But I should not rely upon them for many things, because their intimate friends are decidedly
adverse to us; and for the present we shall not be able to arrive at more than a peaceful,
expectant footing with them. Although this may sometimes be inconvenient, I think it best to
let it continue.

I am surprised that you found so many mistakes in the proofs of the "Faust" score, for, amongst
other advantages which they possess as publishers, one is bound in justice to admit that the
Hartels have excellent readers (Dorffel, Schellenberg, etc.). Therefore use time and patience
in correcting, and where necessary let the plates be engraved over again.

When shall you be back in Zurich? At Dusseldorf they were saying that you had already left
London, and jealous Philistia received the news with a joy which I was not sorry to spoil.
Whatever may happen, and however it may happen, I implore you to

"Hold out and persevere."

In your capacity of poeta sovrano, you must, as Dante says of Homer, pass on your way quietly
and undisturbedly, si come sire. All this dirt does not touch you. Write your "Nibelungen,"
and be content to live on as an immortal!

Later on I shall ask Klindworth to let me see the pianoforte arrangement of the first act of
the "Valkyrie." How about that of the "Rhinegold?" Has H. kept it? Write to me about it, so
that I may know how to get at it.

I have advised H. to settle in Berlin, where his position at the music school will be very
useful to him. There is not much to be got by travelling about in our days. Later on he may
go to Paris and London, but for the next few years Berlin will be a good field for his activity.

I shall stay here during the summer, until I start for Gran at the end of August. The musical
task which occupies me is a new and considerably altered score of my choruses to "Prometheus,"
which I want to publish next winter. As soon as it is finished I shall return to my Dante symphony,
which has partly been sketched.

Farewell, dearest, most unique of friends, and write soon to your serf, body and soul,

F. L.

WEYMAR, June 2nd, 1855.

The Princess and the Child send cordial greetings.

190.

Let me express to you, best of men, my astonishment at your ENORMOUS PRODUCTIVENESS. You have
a Dante symphony in your head, have you? And it is to be finished in the autumn? Do not be
annoyed by my astonishment at this miracle. When I look back upon your activity in these last
years, you appear superhuman to me; there is something very strange about this. However, it
is very natural that creating is our only joy, and alone makes life bearable to us. We are
what we are only while we create; all the other functions of life have no meaning for us, and
are at bottom concessions to the vulgarity of ordinary human existence, which can give us no
satisfaction. All that I still desire in this world is a favourable mood and disposition for
work, and I find it difficult enough to protect these from the attack of vulgarity. It is the
same thing with you. But what astonishes me and appears worthy of envy is that you can create
so much.

A "Divina Commedia" it is to be? That is a splendid idea, and I enjoy the music in anticipation.
But I must have a little talk with you about it. That "Hell" and "Purgatory" will succeed I
do not call into question for a moment, but as to "Paradise" I have some doubts, which you
confirm by saying that your plan includes choruses. In the Ninth Symphony the last choral movement
is decidedly the weakest part, although it is historically important, because it discloses
to us in a very naive manner the difficulties of a real musician who does not know how (after
hell and purgatory) he is to represent paradise. About this paradise, dearest Franz, there
is in reality a considerable difficulty, and he who confirms this opinion is, curiously enough,
Dante himself, the singer of Paradise, which in his "Divine Comedy" also is decidedly the weakest
part. I have followed Dante with deepest sympathy through the "Inferno" and the "Purgatorio;"
and when I emerged from the infernal slough, I washed myself, as does the poet, with the water
of the sea at the foot of the Mountain of Purgatory. I enjoyed the divine morning, the pure
air. I rose step by step, deadened one passion after the other, battled with the wild instinct
of life, till at last, arrived at the fire, I relinquished all desire of life, and threw myself
into the glow in order to sink my personality in the contemplation of Beatrice. But from this
final liberation I was rudely awakened to be again, after all, what I had been before, and
this was done in order to confirm the Catholic doctrine of a God Who, for His own glorification,
had created this hell of my existence, by the most elaborate sophisms and most childish inventions,
quite unworthy of a great mind. This problematic proof I rejected from the bottom of my soul,
and remained dissatisfied accordingly. In order to be just to Dante I had, as in the case of
Beethoven, to occupy the historic standpoint; I had to place myself in Dante's time and consider
the real object of his poem, which, no doubt, was intended to advocate a certain thing with
his contemporaries- -I mean the reform of the Church. I had to confess that in this sense he
understood marvellously well his advantage of expressing himself in an infallible manner through
means of popular and generally accepted ideas. Before all, I cordially agreed with him in his
praise of the saints who had chosen poverty of their own free-will. I had further to admire
even in those sophisms his high poetic imagination and power of representation, just as I admire
Beethoven's musical art in the last movement of his "Ninth Sympthony." I had further to acknowledge,
with deepest and most sublime emotion, the wonderful inspiration through means of which the
beloved of his youth, Beatrice, takes the form in which he conceives the Divine doctrine; and
in so far as that doctrine teaches the purification of personal egoism through love, I joyfully
acknowledge the doctrine of Beatrice. But the fact that Beatrice stands, as it were, on the
chariot of the Church, that, instead of pure, simple doctrine, she preaches keen-witted ecclesiastic
scholasticism, made her appear to me in a colder light, although the poet assures us that she
shines and glows for ever. At last she became indifferent to me; and although as a mere reader
I acknowledge that Dante has acted appropriately, in accordance with his time and his purpose,
I should as a sympathetic co-poet have wished to lose my personal consciousness, and indeed
all consciousness, in that fire. In that manner I should, no doubt, have fared better than
even in the company of the Catholic Deity, although Dante represents it with the same art with
which you, no doubt, will endeavour to celebrate it in your choruses. I faithfully record to
you the impression which the "Divine Comedy" has made upon me, and which in the "Paradise"
becomes to my mind a "divine comedy" in the literal sense of the word, in which I do not care
to take part, either as a comedian or as a spectator. The misleading problem in these questions
is always How to introduce into this terrible world, with an empty nothing beyond it, a God
Who converts the enormous sufferings of existence into something fictitious, so that the hoped-for
salvation remains the only real and consciously enjoyable thing. This will do very well for
the Philistine, especially the English Philistine. He makes very good terms with his God, entering
into a contract by which, after having carried out certain points agreed upon, he is finally
admitted to eternal bliss as a compensation for various failures in this world. But what have
we in common with these notions of the mob?

You once expressed your view of human nature to the effect that man is "une intelligence, servie
par des organes." If that were so, it would be a bad thing for the large majority of men, who
have only "organs," but as good as no "intelligence," at least in your sense. To me the matter
appears in a different light, viz.,- -

Man, like every other animal, embodies the "will of life," for which he fashions his organs
according to his wants; and amongst these organs he also develops intellect, i.e., the organ
of conceiving external things for the purpose of satisfying the desire of life to the best
of his power. A NORMAL man is therefore he who possesses this organ, communicating with the
external world (whose function is perception, just as that of the stomach is digestion) in
a degree exactly sufficient for the satisfaction of the vital instinct by external means. That
vital instinct in NORMAL man consists in exactly the same as does the vital instinct of the
lowest animal, namely, in the desire of nourishment and of propagation. For this "will of life,"
this metaphysical first cause of all existence, desires nothing but to live--that is, to nourish
and eternally reproduce itself--and this tendency can be seen identically in the coarse stone,
in the tenderer plant, and so forth up to the human animal. Only the organs are different,
of which the will must avail itself in the higher stages of its objective existence, in order
to satisfy its more complicated, and therefore more disputed and less easily obtainable, wants.
By gaining this insight, which is confirmed by the enormous progress of modern science, we
understand at once the characteristic feature of the life of the vast majority of men, and
are no longer astonished because they appear to us simply as animals; for this is the NORMAL
essence of man. A very large portion of mankind remains BELOW this NORMAL stage, for in them
the complicated organ of perception is not developed even up to the capability of satisfying
normal wants; but, on the other hand, although of course very rarely, there are ABNORMAL natures
in which the ordinary measure of the organ of perception--that is, the brain--is exceeded,
just as nature frequently forms monstrosities in which ONE ORGAN is developed at the expense
of the others. Such a monstrosity, if it reaches the highest degree, is called GENIUS, which
at bottom is caused only by an abnormally rich and powerful brain. This organ of perception,
which originally and in normal cases looks outward for the purpose of satisfying the wants
of the will of life, receives in the case of an abnormal development such vivid and such striking
impressions from outside that for a time it emancipates itself from the service of the will,
which originally had fashioned it for its own ends. It thus attains to a "will-less"--i.e.,
aesthetic-- contemplation of the world; and these external objects, contemplated APART FROM
THE WILL, are exactly the ideal images which the ARTIST in a manner fixes and reproduces. The
sympathy with the external world which is inherent in this contemplation is developed in powerful
natures to a permanent forgetfulness of the original personal will, that is to a SYMPATHY with
external things for their own sake, and no longer in connection with any personal interest.

The question then arises what we see in this abnormal state, and whether our sympathy takes
the form of COMMON JOY or COMMON SORROW. This question the true MEN OF GENIUS and the true
SAINTS of all times have answered in the sense that they have seen nothing but SORROW and felt
nothing but COMMON SORROW. For they recognized the NORMAL state of all living things and the
terrible, always self-contradictory, always self-devouring and blindly egotistic, nature of
the "will of life" which is common to all living things. The horrible cruelty of this will,
which in sexual love aims only at its own reproduction, appeared in them for the first time
reflected in the organ of perception, which in its normal state had felt its subjection to
the Will to which it owed its existence. In this manner the organ of perception was placed
in an abnormal sympathetic condition. It endeavoured to free itself permanently and finally
from its disgraceful serfdom, and this it at last achieved in the perfect negation of the "will
of life."

This act of the "negation of will" is the true characteristic of the saint, which finds its
last completion in the absolute cessation of personal consciousness; and all consciousness
must be personal and individual. But the saints of Christianity, simple-minded and enveloped
in the Jewish dogma as they were, could not see this, and their limited imagination looked
upon that much-desired stage as the eternal continuation of a life, freed from nature. Our
judgment of the moral import of their resignation must not be influenced by this circumstance,
for in reality they also longed for the cessation of their individual personality, i.e., of
their existence. But this deep longing is expressed more purely and more significantly in the
most sacred and oldest religion of the human race, the doctrine of the Brahmins, and especially
in its final transfiguration and highest perfection, Buddhism. This also expounds the myth
of a creation of the world by God, but it does not celebrate this act as a boon, but calls
it a sin of Brahma which he, AFTER HAVING EMBODIED HIMSELF IN THIS WORLD, must atone for by
the infinite sufferings of this very world. He finds his salvation in the saints who, by perfect
negation of the "will of life," by the sympathy with all suffering which alone fills their
heart, enter the state of Nirwana, i.e., "the land of being no longer." Such a saint was Buddha.
According to his doctrine of the migration of souls every man is born again in the form of
that creature on which he had inflicted pain, however pure his life might otherwise have been.
He himself must now know this pain, and his sorrowful migration does not cease, until during
an entire course of his new-born life he has inflicted pain on no creature, but has denied
his own will of life in the sympathy with other beings. How sublime, how satisfying is this
doctrine compared with the Judaeo-Christian doctrine, according to which a man (for, of course,
the suffering ANIMAL exists for the benefit of man alone) has only to be obedient to the Church
during this short life to be made comfortable for all eternity, while he who has been disobedient
in this short life will be tortured for ever. Let us admit that Christianity is to us this
contradictory phenomenon, because we know it only in its mixture with, and distortion by, narrow-hearted
Judaism, while modern research has succeeded in showing that pure and un-alloyed Christianity
was nothing but a branch of that venerable Buddhism which, after Alexander's Indian expedition,
spread to the shores of the Mediterranean. In early Christianity we still see distinct traces
of the perfect negation of the "will of life," of the longing for the destruction of the world,
i.e., the cessation of all existence. The pity is that this deeper insight into the essence
of things can be gained alone by the abnormally organised men previously referred to, and that
they only can fully grasp it. In order to communicate this insight to others, the sublime founders
of religion have therefore to speak in images, such as are accessible to the common normal
perception. In this process much must be disfigured, although Buddha's doctrine of the migration
of souls expresses the truth with almost perfect precision. The normal vulgarity of man and
the license of general egoism further distort the image until it becomes a caricature. And
I pity the poet who undertakes to restore the original image from this caricature. It seems
to me that Dante, especially in the "Paradise," has not succeeded in this; and in his explanation
of the Divine natures he appears, to me at least, frequently like a childish Jesuit. But perhaps
you, dear friend, will succeed better, and as you are going to paint a TONE picture I might
almost predict your success, for music is essentially the artistic, original image of the world.
For the initiated no error is here possible. Only about the "Paradise," and especially about
the choruses, I feel some friendly anxiety. You will not expect me to add less important things
to this important matter.

I shall soon write again; on the 26th I leave here, and shall therefore have endured to the
end. Farewell dear, dear Franz.

Your

R. W.

LONDON, June 7th, 1855.

191.

ZURICH, July 5th, 1855.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Your late servant Hermann called on me today and told me that I should have a letter from you
one of these days, that you and the Princess would come to Switzerland SOON (?), and a thousand
other things.

I am longing for direct news from you. I have been back in Zurich since June 3Oth, after having
conducted my last London concert on the 25th. You have probably heard how charmingly Queen
Victoria behaved to me. She attended the seventh concert with Prince Albert, and as they wanted
to hear something of mine I had the "Tannhauser" overture repeated, which helped me to a little
external amende. I really seem to have pleased the Queen. In a conversation I had with her,
by her desire, after the first part of the concert, she was so kind that I was really quite
touched. These two were the first people in England who dared to speak in my favour openly
and undisguisedly, and if you consider that they had to deal with a political outlaw, charged
with high treason and "wanted" by the police, you will think it natural that I am sincerely
grateful to both.

At the last concert the public and the orchestra roused themselves to a demonstration against
the London critics. I had always been told that my audiences were very much in my favour, and
of the orchestra I could see that it was always most willing to follow my intentions, as far
as bad habits and want of time would allow. But I soon saw that the public received impressions
slowly and with difficulty, and was unable to distinguish the genuine from the spurious, trivial
pedantry from sterling worth, while the orchestra--out of regard for its real master and despot
Costa, who can dismiss and appoint the musicians according to his will--always limited its
applause to the smallest and least compromising measure. This time, at the leavetaking, it
broke through all restraint. The musicians rose solemnly, and together with the whole thickly
packed hall, began a storm of applause so continuous that I really felt awkward. After that
the band crowded round me to shake hands, and even some ladies and gentlemen of the public
held out their hands to me, which I had to press warmly. In this manner my absurd London expedition
finally took the character of a triumph for me, and I was pleased at least to observe the independence
of the public which this time it showed towards the critics. A triumph in MY SENSE was, of
course, out of the question. In the best possible case I cannot really be known in the concert
room, and that best possible case- -I mean performances fully realising my intentions--could
not be achieved, owing principally to want of time. In consequence, I always retained a bitter
feeling of degradation, increased by the fact that I was compelled to conduct whole programmes
of monstrous length, and put together in the most tasteless and senseless manner. That I did
conduct these concerts to the end was done entirely out of regard for my wife and a few friends,
who would have been grieved very much by the consequences of my sudden departure from London.
I am glad that the matter has been carried through, at least with favourable appearances; with
the Queen I was really pleased, and to individual friends I have given great pleasure; that
must suffice. The New Philharmonic would like to have me next year; what more can I desire?

One real gain I bring back from England--the cordial and genuine friendship which I feel for
Berlioz, and which we have mutually concluded. I heard a concert of the New Philharmonic under
his direction, and was, it is true, little edified by his performance of Mozart's "G. Minor
Symphony," while the very imperfect execution of his "Romeo and Juliet" symphony made me pity
him. A few days afterwards we two were the only guests at Sainton's table; he was lively, and
the progress in French which I have made in London, permitted me to discuss with him for five
hours all the problems of art, philosophy, and life in a most fascinating conversation. In
that manner I gained a deep sympathy for my new friend; he appeared to me quite different from
what he had done before. We discovered suddenly that we were in reality fellow-sufferers, and
I thought, upon the whole, I was happier than Berlioz. After my last concert he and the other
few friends I have in London called on me; his wife also came. We remained together till three
o'clock in the morning, and took leave with the warmest embraces. I told him that you were
going to visit me in September, and asked him to meet you at my house. The money question seemed
to be his chief difficulty, and I am sure he would like to come. Let him know exactly when
you will be here.

Klindworth was to play a concerto by Henselt yesterday at the last New Philharmonic concert,
conducted by Berlioz. I made the acquaintance of Dr. Wylde, a good man, and was able to be
of some use to Klindworth in that small matter. I sincerely pity him. He is much too much of
an artist and a high-minded man, not to be and always remain very unhappy in London. He should
try something else.

On once more touching the Continent I felt a little better. The air here suits me, and I hope
soon to be again at my work, which at last I gave up in London altogether. Of the "Valkyrie"
you will find little ready.

But when are you coming? If I may not expect you before September, I shall go to Seelisberg
till then, starting next Monday, but if, as Hermann led me to hope, I receive a letter before
then, announcing your immediate arrival, I shall of course be very happy to remain at Zurich.

Therefore let me soon hear from you. You have kept me waiting long, which indeed I might have
expected after my last letter from London, for to communications of this kind your reply has
always been silence. But now you must relieve me of my uncertainty as to your visit, which
may at last be expected shortly once more. I need scarcely tell you that I am looking forward
to it with great pleasure, and that our meeting will be to me the only joy after long trouble.

I am expecting a letter from you with great impatience. Cordial greetings in advance from your

RICHARD. 192.

Welcome in Zurich, dearest Richard, where I hope to see you at the end of September or October.

My Hungarian journey is still somewhat uncertain, as, according to the latest news, the cathedral
will probably not be quite finished this year. But in any case I shall come to you this autumn,
and shall let you know my arrival in Zurich a few weeks in advance. The satisfactory close
of your stay in London has pleased me very much, and, as I know London, I think it would be
well if you were to go there again next season. About this and some other business I shall
tell you more when I see you.

In the meantime I am delighted at your friendly relations with Berlioz. Of all contemporary
composers he is the one with whom you can converse in the simplest, openest, and most interesting
manner. Take him for all in all, he is an honest, splendid, tremendous fellow; and, together
with your letter, I received one from Berlioz, in which he says amongst other things: "Wagner
will, no doubt, tell you all about his stay in London, and what he has had to suffer from predetermined
hostility. He is splendid in his ardour and warmth of heart, and I confess that even his violence
delights me. It seems there is a fate against my hearing his last compositions. The day when,
at the demand of Prince Albert, he conducted his 'Tannhauser' overture at the Hanover Square
Rooms, I was compelled at the same hour to attend a horrible choral rehearsal for the New Philharmonic
concert which I had to conduct two days afterwards," etc.

And lower down: "Wagner has something singularly attractive to me, and if we both have asperities,
those asperities dovetail into each other:"

[drawing]

(Berlioz's drawing is more brilliant than mine.)

Many thanks for your Dante letter. By way of answer, I hope to show you the first half of my
work at Zurich, together with some other things which will illustrate my aims to you more distinctly
than anything I could tell you.

During the next few weeks I shall have to work at my "Prometheus" choruses, which I want to
publish soon, and for that purpose I must write an entirely new score. For in the year 1850,
when I composed this work, I had too little time (scarcely a month), and was too much occupied
by the "Lohengrin" rehearsals to give it the necessary finish. I have now kept in view the
means of performance more than before, and although the design and the conception remain essentially
unchanged, the whole thing will have a better appearance. It is a similar process as in sculpture,
when the artist works in marble. Before the performance a symphonic, and still more, a dramatic
work exists, so to speak, only in CLAY. I could easily illustrate this comparison by the new
score of your "Faust" overture, and by some of the changes you have made in the "Flying Dutchman."
Wait a little, dearest Richard, and you will see what a lot of stuff, and how much material
for conversation I shall bring with me. The end of last week I spent in Dresden, where I called
upon our friends, the Ritters. Sascha Ritter, our Weymar Court musician, has been blessed with
a little daughter, whose god-father I shall have the honour to be. His mother-in-law has been
staying here for some weeks, and Johanna Wagner is expected in September.

Our theatrical affairs are in a critical condition. The Intendant, Herr von Beaulieu, is going
to leave, and the artistic director, Marr, is also said to have sent in his resignation. I
do not trouble myself about these matters, and look forward with perfect peace of mind to the
solution of these somewhat unimportant questions.

Gutzkow's call to Weymar, which the papers announced several times, is not in itself unlikely,
but will probably be delayed a little, as nothing definite has, as yet, been done.

Farewell, and set to work at your "Valkyrie." Go up your mountains, and bring the very skies
down to your music. In September, or at the latest, in October, we shall meet.

Your

F. L.

Your kindness and friendship for Klindworth have obliged me particularly, and I ask you to
continue them.

WEYMAR, July 11th, 1855.

P.S.--I shall remain here all the summer.

193.

SEELISBERG, CANTON URI, July 22nd, 1855.

DEAREST FRIEND,

I think of nothing now but our meeting and being together. I am glad you did not come sooner,
because at present I should be able to show you very little of the "Valkyrie," and I am pleased
therefore to have a good deal of time for the completion of the score. By November I shall
have finished, at least, the first two acts, even the clean copy of them.

Consider this, and bear in mind that it will be a CLIMAX OF OUR LIVES, for the sake of which
all common things must be got over and brought into order. I count upon your magnanimity.

Farewell for today. I send you many greetings from a longing heart.

Your R. W.

194.

DEAR FRANZ,

You are my court business agent, once for all. Be kind enough to forward, through the Weimar
minister at Hanover, the enclosed letter to the king as soon as possible. My theatrical agent,
Michaelson, has exceeded his legal rights by selling "Lohengrin" to the Hanover theatre without
asking me, and for a much smaller sum than they had previously paid me for "Tannhauser" on
my direct application. The Intendant will not hear of my cancelling the sale, and all that
remains to me is to apply to the king himself. You will take care of this, will you not?

Why did you not answer my last question?

One million greetings from

Your

R. W.

195.

In spite of many attempts and inquiries backwards and forwards, I have not found a sure way
of obtaining a hearing from his Majesty, the King of Hanover. It appears to me that the best
thing you can do in this matter is to write a few lines to Joachim or, in case he should be
absent on his travels, to Capellmeister Wehner at Hanover, and to enclose your letter to the
king. I, for my part, cannot undertake this commission, as I have no relations with Hanover
just now, and should not like to be responsible for a failure. Wehner (I am not quite certain
as to the spelling of his name) is on very good terms with the king, and will be glad to be
of service to you. It will be necessary, however, that you should write to him a few lines
direct, in which please mention me. I herewith return your letter to the king. Kindly excuse
this delay; I was absent for several days, and some other measures, which I thought had been
taken for the purpose, have come to nothing.

In November you will see me, and I agree to everything that is agreeable to you. By then several
of my scores will be in print, which will make it easier for us to read them. During these
last months I have been occupied so much by visits, correspondence, and business matters that
I could scarcely devote a few hours to my work. I am sometimes angry and wild at the ridiculous
troubles I have to go through, and long for our days at the Zeltweg.

Write to me later on when my visit will be most convenient to you, in November or at Christmas?

The Princess and her daughter stayed several weeks at Berlin, and for the last week they have
been in Paris. I do not expect them back here till the middle of September. In the meantime
my son Daniel--who at this year's concours at the "Lycee Bonaparte," as well as in the "Concours
General," again distinguished himself and carried off several prizes--has arrived at the Altenburg.

One of these days you will receive from Bussenius, with whom you were in correspondence before,
your biography. It has been written with the best intentions, and will probably be read far
and wide. Under the pseudonym of W. Neumann, Bussenius has edited a biographical collection,
"Die Componisten der neueren Zeit," for E. Balde of Cassel, and the success has been such that
a second edition of some of the volumes will soon be published. I have asked Bussenius to send
you the little book.

My friendly greetings to your wife. Do not forget your

F. LISZT.

196.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

Your silence makes me very anxious. Whenever I look around me and into my future, I see nothing
that can rouse me, elate me, comfort me, and give me strength and arms for the new troubles
of life except our meeting, and the few weeks you are going to devote to me. If as to the exact
time of that period of salvation I expressed a wish to you, it was done with the care with
which one likes to realise beforehand a supreme blessing, well knowing that it must be bought
with long sadness, both before and after. But perhaps you misunderstood me after all, and thought
that, apart from the happiness of seeing you again, I was looking for something else, quite
independent thereof, and this perhaps may have made you angry. Let me know, in a few words,
how things are, and when you are coming. I should certainly like to show you as much as possible
of my "Valkyrie," and principally for that reason I did not object to this delay of your much-desired
visit. In my present condition, however, I have little hope of gaining much work by this gain
of time. My mental disharmony is indescribable; sometimes I stare at my paper for days together,
without remembrance or thought or liking for my work. Where is that liking to spring from?
All the motive power which, for a time, I derived from my dreary solitude is gradually losing
its force. When I commenced and quickly finished the "Rhinegold," I was still full of the intercourse
with you and yours. For the last two years all around me has grown silent, and my occasional
contact with the outer world is inharmonious and dispiriting. Believe me, this cannot go on
much longer. If my external fate does not soon take a different turn, if I find no possibility
of seeing you more frequently, and of hearing or producing some of my works now and then, my
fountain will dry up, and the end be near. It is impossible for me to go on like this.

You may imagine, then, how I look forward to your coming, and what I must feel when suddenly
I see myself forsaken by you. Comfort me soon. After much trouble the first half of the "Valkyrie,"
including a clean copy, has got finished. I should like to show you the two acts complete,
but am still waiting for the real love of work. For the last week indisposition has prevented
me from doing anything, and if this goes on I almost doubt whether I shall be able to finish
this work from the sketches.

Your article about the "Harold" symphony was very beautiful, and has warmed my heart. I shall
write to Berlioz tomorrow; he must send me his scores. HE will never know ME thoroughly; his
ignorance of German prevents this; he will always see me in vague and deceptive outline. But
I will honestly use my advantage over him, and bring him nearer to me.

How are matters with you? I hear about you now and then, but you are silent.

Adieu! Imagine a very long sigh here.

197.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I enclose a letter from T. Hagen, of New York, where he has been settled for about a year,
and does good work as a musician and musical author. The letters in the "Leipzig Signale,"
signed "Butterbrod," are his, and some time ago he published a volume about music in its relation
to social interests, the exact title of which I cannot remember. He is a friend of Klindworth's,
and associates with your admirers and partisans. With Mason Brothers I have some connection
through William Mason, one of my pupils, who lived eighteen months in Weymar. As far as I know,
the firm is SOLID and respectable.

Although I do not suppose that you will accept the offer of conducting concerts in America
during next winter, I ask you to let me have an answer (addressed to me) soon, because I shall
wait for your letter concerning this matter, in order to forward it to Hagen. A Beethoven musical
festival in connection with the inauguration of the Beethoven statue at Boston would not be
amiss, and the pecuniary result might be very favourable.

Johanna Wagner arrived here the day before yesterday, and she and her parents will stay a week
in Weymar with her sister, Frau Ritter. I spent several hours with her last night.

"Tannhauser" is to be produced at Berlin in December.

How far have you got with the "Valkyrie?" I am looking forward to our meeting in November.

The Princess and the Child are still in Paris. They study carefully the exhibition of pictures,
and see a good deal of Scheffer, Delacroix, and other artistic notabilities, which suits them
exactly. About the 25th of this month I expect them here, where, in the meantime, I am terribly
bored by the load of tedious things which are imposed upon me, and with the relation of which
I will not trouble you. On the 16th the theatre will be opened with Nicolai's "Merry Wives."
After that we shall have "The Huguenots," "Cellini," and Verdi's "I Due Foscari." "Lohengrin"
will not be given just yet because Ortrud (Frau Knopp) has left us, and the new prima donna,
Fraulein Woltendorff, will at least require three or four months to learn the part. But as
"Tannhauser" and the "Flying Dutchman" have proved "draws," they will be sure to be thrashed
out thoroughly.

I, for my part, am sick of the whole theatrical business, but I am compelled, to stick to it
in a half-and-half sort of way, because, without me, things would probably be still worse.

Your

F. L.

Return Hagen's letter to me.

198.

ZURICH, September 13th, 1855.

Your last but one letter, dear Franz, was the best answer to my last, the two having crossed
on the way. As to our final meeting I use all the arts of an experienced voluptuary in order
to get the most out of it. As it has been delayed so long, I should almost like to finish the
whole "Valkyrie" previously. The completion of this work, the most TRAGIC which I have ever
conceived, will cost me much, and I must think of recovering what I have put into it by the
most cheering impressions, and those YOU ONLY can supply. The thought of being able to go with
you through this work also is my only hope of reward. I am quite unable to deal with it on
the piano to my own satisfaction. You must introduce it to me. For that reason I am thinking
of delaying our meeting till I can go through THE WHOLE with you. Thus my highest need has
made an egoist of me. The first two acts I hope to have finished and copied out at the end
of October, the whole by Christmas. You said in your last letter it would suit you equally
well to come either in November or at Christmas. This induced me to curb my impatience to see
you again till then, so as to make it possible, by the most incessant industry, to place the
whole, completed and fairly copied, before you, including the last act, which is so important
to me. Must I then ASK you to delay your visit till Christmas? It sounds absurd enough, but
you will understand my pedantry. If you agree, and if no further delay will become necessary
on that account, I shall send you the first two acts for inspection at the end of October,
and you can bring them back with you.

What shall I say to you of this New York offer? I was told in London that they intended to
invite me. It is a blessing that they do not offer me very much money. The hope of being able
to earn a large sum, say ten thousand dollars, in a short time, would, in the great helplessness
of my pecuniary position, compel me, as a matter of course, to undertake this American expedition,
although even in that case it would perhaps be absurd to sacrifice my best vital powers to
so miserable a purpose, and, as it were, in an indirect manner. But as a man like me has no
chance of a really lucrative speculation, I am glad that I am not exposed to any serious temptation,
and therefore ask you to thank the gentlemen of New York very kindly, in my name, for the unmerited
attention they have shown me, and to tell them that, "for the present," I am unable to accept
their invitation. I puzzle my head about the cause of the journey which the Princess and the
Child have taken to Paris; is it for amusement and nothing else? Greet them both most cordially
for me when they return; could they not come with you to a poor devil in Switzerland just as
well as go to Paris? If you would let me cater for you I could arrange matters very cheaply.
At the "Hotel (Pension) Baur au lac," where you stayed before, one can, during the WINTER,
have brilliant, large, and comfortable rooms for VERY LITTLE. A family of my acquaintance occupied
a whole floor there last winter, and lived very well at a fabulously cheap rate. The Wesendoncks
are also staying there, and you might set up a splendid, half-common MENAGE, which would be
a great joke. Well, the chief thing will be to have a good piano for our two selves, and of
that I will take care, although I cannot provide so splendid an instrument as that which Erard
sent me in London, and for which I forgot to thank you. I believe if I had such an instrument
I should still learn to play the piano.

I am much annoyed about Hanover. I know of no way to address a reclamation to the King. I have
no faith in Wehner's intercession. As a subordinate of Count P.'s, he can risk no step which
might compromise him with that official. But these are disgusting things to write about. You
also complain of troubles. Tell me, why do not we live together? Must it be Weimar of all places?
Another time more about this. For today farewell, and let me thank you for being in existence.

Your

R. W.

199.

DEAREST RICHARD,

Over America I had forgotten Hanover, and must not omit once more to point out Wehner to you
as the best advocate of your claims there. If the matter of the honorarium can be arranged
according, to your wish, he will be the most likely man to do it. From Joachim I have heard
nothing since the Dusseldorf festival. Wehner lives at Hanover, and is in particular favour
with His Majesty, and he will be most eager to do you a little service if you will ask him
in a friendly manner.

At the end of December, about Christmas, I shall be with you. Then we will feed like the gods
on your "Rhinegold" and "Valkyrie," and I, too, shall contribute some hors d'oeuvre.

F. L.

WEYMAR, September 23rd, 1855.

Write to me, at the first opportunity, whether ten thousand or twelve thousand dollars, with
proper guarantee, would be a sufficient honorarium if you were to act as conductor in America
for six months.

200.

October 3rd, 1855.

Today, dearest Franz, I send you the two first acts of the "Valkyrie" finished. It is a great
satisfaction to me to place them at once in your hands, because I know that no one sympathises
with my work as you do. I am anxious for the very weighty second act; it contains two catastrophes,
so important and so powerful, that there would be sufficient matter for two acts; but then
they are so interdependent, and the one implies the other so immediately, that it was impossible
to separate them. If it is represented exactly as I intend, and if my intentions are perfectly
understood, the effect must be beyond anything that has hitherto been in existence. Of course,
it is written only for people who can stand something (perhaps in reality for nobody). That
incapable and weak persons will complain, cannot in any way move me. You must decide whether
everything has succeeded according to my own intentions. I cannot do it otherwise. At times,
when I was timid and sobered down, I was chiefly anxious about the great scene of Wotan, especially
when he discloses the decrees of fate to Brynhild, and in London I was once on the point of
rejecting the whole scene. In order to come to a decision, I took up the sketch, and recited
the scene with proper expression, when, fortunately, I discovered that my spleen was unjustified,
and that, if properly represented, the scene would have a grand effect even in a purely musical
sense. The manner of expression I have in places indicated very accurately, but it still remains,
and will indeed be my principal task, to introduce a gifted singer and actor to the very core
of my intentions by means of personal communication. You, I firmly hope, will find out the
right thing at once. For the development of the great tetralogy, this is the most important
scene of all, and, as such, it will probably meet with the necessary sympathy and attention.

If you should like nothing at all in my score, you will, at least, be pleased once more with
my neat hand-writing, and will think the precaution of red lines ingenious. This representation
on paper will probably be the only one which my work will achieve, for which reason I linger
over the copying with satisfaction.

I hope, more firmly than ever, to finish the last act by Christmas. That you allow yourself
to be ordered about by me is too kind of you, and touches me deeply. In return, I promise to
behave very reasonably when you come. In the meantime I shall nurse the feeble remnants of
my voice in every way, and during the last weeks before your arrival I shall try a few solfeggi,
in order to restore the overstrained and badly treated instrument to a tolerable condition.
Must I assure you once more, that I look forward to our meeting with a sacred awe!

As far as we require society, it will not be unpleasant this time. You probably know that Semper
has been appointed here. I take great pleasure in him--an artist through and through, and of
his nature more amiable than before, though still fiery. Carl Ritter also will settle here.
He pleases me better than ever. His intellect is vast, and I do not know another young man
like him. He loves you sincerely, and understands you well.

Berlioz replied lately to a letter of mine, in which I had asked him, amongst other things,
to make me a present of all his scores, if he could get them gratis. That he cannot do, because
his earlier publishers will give him no more free copies. I confess that it would interest
me very much to study his symphonies carefully in full score. Do you possess them, and will
you lend them to me, or will you go so far as to give them to me? I should accept them gratefully,
but should like to have them soon.

The Hanover business has been settled satisfactorily, the Intendant having apparently seen
the error of his ways. I thank you for your well-intended advice with regard to Wehner, and
regret to have troubled you with this trumpery business.

America is a terrible nightmare. If the New York people should ever make up their minds to
offer me a considerable sum, I should be in the most awful dilemma. If I refused I should have
to conceal it from all men, for every one would charge me in my position with recklessness.
Ten years ago I might have undertaken such a thing, but to have to walk in such by-ways now
in order to live would be too hard,--now, when I am fit only to do, and to devote myself to,
that which is strictly my business. I should never finish the "Nibelungen" in my life. Good
gracious! such sums as I might EARN in America, people ought to GIVE me, without asking anything
in return beyond what I am actually doing, and which is the best that I can do. Besides this,
I am much better adapted to spend 60,000 francs in six months than to "earn" it. The latter
I cannot do at all, for it is not my business to "earn money," but it is the business of my
admirers to give me as much money as I want, to do my work in a cheerful mood. Well, it is
a good thing, and I will take courage from the thought that the Americans will make me no such
offer. Do not you instigate it either, for in the "luckiest" case it would be a great trouble
to me. Of your dear ones I never have any real news; I am frequently asked, and do not know
what to say. But you must greet them all the more cordially for me, and, if you can, love me
with all your heart. Will you not? Adieu.

Your R. W.

And how about your great compositions? To know them at last is worth a whole life to me. I
have never looked forward with such desire to anything. Let me know AT ONCE that my score has
arrived, so that I may not worry myself about it.

201.

One word, dearest Franz, to say that my score has safely arrived! I am anxious.

Your

R.

202.

Your "Valkyrie" has arrived, and I should like to reply to you by your "Lohengrin" chorus,
sung by 1,000 voices, and repeated a thousandfold: "A wonder! a wonder!"

Dearest Richard, you are truly a divine being, and it is my joy to feel after you and to follow
you.

More by word of mouth about your splendid, tremendous work, which I am reading "in great inner
excitement," to the horn rhythm, page 40, in D:

[musical notation] The scores of Berlioz I possess, but have lent them all to friends for the
moment, and shall not be able to get them back for some weeks.

About the middle of November I shall send you a parcel of them. You will find in them much
to please you.

The day after tomorrow I am going for a few days to Brunswick to conduct, on the 18th instant,
one of the Symphony Concerts given by the orchestra there. For the 2lst, Sunday week, your
"Flying Dutchman" is announced here, and at the beginning of November there will be a performance
of "Tannhauser" in honour of several Berlin people (Hulsen, Dorn, the operatic stage manager
Formes, etc.), who have announced their visit here. I shall send you an account of it.

Go on with your "Valkyrie," and permit me to adapt the proverb,

"Quand on prend du galon, on n'en saurait trop prendre,"

to your case in the following manner:

"Quand on fait du sublime on n'en saurait trop faire, surtout quand ce n'est qu'une question
de nature et d'habitude!"

Your

F.

WEYMAR, October 12th, 1855.

203.

November 16th, 1855.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Thank the Child a thousand times for her letter, and tell her that I shall not send the album
back till you return from here, because I want to write something good in it which will not
be finished till then.

I must write many and reasonable things to the Princess, and that I cannot do at present. So
I remain in her debt also, but only to satisfy her. She may see from this how much I value
her letter.

I have not yet gone out into the air; but I am getting accustomed to my room, and do not particularly
long for our autumn mists. I am doing a little work too. You are coming, are you not?

I should like to be silent till then and for ever, for whenever I speak or write it is sure
to be something stupid.

Au revoir!!!

204.

DEAR FRANZ,

I am making a tentative effort to rise from the sick bed on which I have lain again exactly
three weeks.

Carl Ritter has informed you of my condition. The thorns of my existence have now been supplemented
by blooming "roses." I have suffered from continual attacks of erysipelas in the face. In the
luckiest case I shall not be able to go out into the air this year, and during the whole winter
I shall live in continual fear of relapses. For the slightest excitement, accompanied by the
least cold, may throw me back on my sick bed for two or three weeks at any moment.

I am now reaping the fruit of my stupid postponement of your visit, for I cannot possibly expect
you to visit me in the present uncertain state of my health. Anyhow, I thus relieve you of
the burden which a visit in this evil, hard winter would no doubt have been to you. As concerns
myself, nothing can make my mood worse than it is. I am getting accustomed to all kinds of
trouble, and the disagreeable and the necessary and natural are to me convertible terms.

I long for news of you, of which you are too chary.

As soon as I get better and am accustomed to sitting up I shall write more. For today a thousand
greetings to the Altenburg.

Your

R. W.

ZURICH, December 12th, 1855.

205.

Chronos has made another step across all our heads. How can I write to you, dear poet, without
telling you of the kind wishes which I and the Child entertain for you, and the desire we both
of us have of seeing you again in the course of 1856? I can assure you that if fate were to
send me a messenger with the assurance of this, I should consider it the best New Year's gift,
although there are many things which I demand of it.

But one must hope--hope is a virtue. Is not this a beautiful identification?

It gives us great pain to know that you are suffering. I would accept double and treble the
rheumatism which I have caught in this climate, where we have eight months of bad weather,
and not four of fine, if I could secure you perfect liberty thereby. Liszt is sad because his
travelling plans are disarranged, although he hopes to see you more at his ease another time.
He must be at Vienna at the beginning of January in order to conduct a Mozart festival given
for the centenary of the Master's birthday; and as Berlioz is coming here at the beginning
of February, he will have to leave Vienna immediately afterwards.

The papers have no doubt informed you of his stay at Berlin, where he will soon return to attend
the first performance of "Tannhauser," two rehearsals of which he almost entirely conducted.
Stupid people will not be silenced thereby. To poets living in the tropical regions, where
passion expands her gigantic blossoms and her sidereal marvels, stupid people appear like little
gadflies which sometimes annoy them and draw blood by their stings, but cannot disturb the
enchantment of this luxuriant nature. Liszt also has been honoured by a swarm of these insects,
which buzz with all the more noise and self- sufficiency because they can make so little honey.
He is quite composed, and goes quietly on his way, only uttering occasionally such BONMOTS
as "They have cast me down, but I remain standing none the less," or "What does it matter if
other people do things badly so long as I do them well?" etc., etc.; and so life goes on.

Write to me, dear poet, and do not always wait for a REASON; and if you will give pleasure
to my daughter send her for the New Year the autograph for which she has asked you.

Embrace your wife for me, and convey to her my kindest wishes. She ought to be sure of them,
as indeed ought you. Have you resumed the "Valkyrie?" The duet between Siegmund and Siegliende
has made me shed copious tears. It is as beautiful as love, as the Infinite, as earth and the
heavens.

Your devoted,

CAROLYNE W.

December 23rdd, 1855.

206.

Today I ought to be with you and prepare your Christmas tree, where the rays and gifts of your
genius should shine. And now we are apart, you troubled with erysipelas, and I with all manner
of red roses grown in similar gardens. But this abominable FLORA shall not delay the joy of
our meeting too long.

You probably know that I have to go to Vienna, in January, to conduct the Centenary Mozart
Festival, which takes place on January 27th, and will require at least a few weeks' preparation.
At the beginning of February I shall be back here. Berlioz is coming on the 8th of February,
and Johanna Wagner on the 20th. Berlioz's "Faust" and "Cellini" will be given before the 16th,
and your niece is announced in three roles. As soon as this is over I shall write to tell you
when I can come to Zurich, but I am afraid I shall have to wait for the summer.

At Berlin, where I stayed three weeks, I attended a few pianoforte rehearsals of "Tannhauser,"
by invitation of Messrs. von Hulsen and Dorn, and if the first performance is not delayed after
January 6th to 8th (for when it is announced), I shall be able to send you a report of it as
an eye and ear witness. Johanna will sing and act Elizabeth beautifully, and Formes is studying
his part most conscientiously. Dorn has already had a number of pianoforte and string rehearsals,
and makes it a point of honour to produce the work as correctly and brilliantly as possible.

No doubt "Tannhauser" will become a "draw" at Berlin, which is the chief thing, even for the
composer, and I hope that the CRITICAL treatment which I received at the hands of the critics
will redound to the credit of "Tannhauser," and that the infallible impression of your work
on the public will not be impaired by carping notices. I shall write to you about this at great
length.

The day after tomorrow, Boxing-day, we shall have "Tannhauser" here, which retains its position
as a "draw," a distinction which it shares at Weymar, with "Lohengrin" and "The Flying Dutchman."

Next spring "Lohengrin" is to be mounted again here. Up to the present we still want an Ortrud,
and, unfortunately, cannot get a good one from elsewhere. The Leipzig one would, for example,
be quite useless, and the voice of Frau Knopp is still much impaired by her late illness.

I am looking forward to "Lohengrin," that wonderful work, which, to me, is the highest and
most perfect thing in art--until your "Nibelungen" is finished.

At Berlin, at Count Redern's, I heard a few pieces from "Lohengrin" splendidly executed by
several regimental bands, and was reminded of our pompous entry into the "Drei Konige" of Basle:
Our new Weymar Union has adopted the entry of the trumpets

[Musical notation]

as its "Hoch," and I wish we could sing it to you in chorus soon.

Of my concert affairs, etc., I have nothing to tell you. When I come to you I shall bring some
of my scores with me. The rest will not interest us much. With similar compositions, the only
question is, what is IN them? The publication I shall delay a few months (although six numbers
are already engraved), for the reason that some of my EXCELLENT friends (an expression which
Kaulbach is fond of using for people who do not like him) had the EXCELLENT intention of producing
these things at once by way of a WARNING EXAMPLE. That amiable intention I want to forestall
by a few performances under my own direction during the winter.

Try to get better again soon, and remember kindly

Your faithful

F. LISZT.

December 24th, 1855.

Best remembrances to Ritter.

207.

DEAR FRANZ,

I am again, or rather still, unwell and incapable of anything. I was just going to write something
in the album, so that the Child might have it for the new year. But it will not do; my head
is too confused and heavy. I write to you only to tell you so; a real letter I could not accomplish.
Apart from this I have nothing to tell you; I mean that I have no materials.

I should like to ask you, however, to return the two acts of the "Valkyrie" to me at once before
you start. I have at last found a good copyist to whom I have promised work, and I am anxious
to have the copy finished soon,--perhaps for the same reason which induces insects to place
their eggs in safety before they die.

If I ever finish the last act I will send you the whole, although you are so great a man of
the world. Till then be of good cheer, and remember that if you are abused you have willed
it so. I also rejoice in the FIASCO of my "Faust" overture, because in it I see a purifying
and wholesome punishment for having published the work in despite of my better judgment; the
same religious feeling I had in London when I was bespattered with mud on all sides. This was
the most wholesome mud that had ever been thrown at me.

I wish you joy for the Vienna mud.

Adieu, and do your work well. Of your Christianity I do not think much; the Saviour of the
world should not desire to be the conqueror of the world. There is a hopeless contradiction
in this in which you are deeply involved.

My compliments and thanks to the Princess, and tell the Child that I was unable to manage it
today. WHEN shall I? Heaven knows! It is largely your own fault.

Adieu. I cannot say more, and have, moreover, talked nonsense enough. Farewell, and enjoy yourself.

208.

TELEGRAM

TO R. WAGNER, ZELTWEG, ZURICH.

Yesterday "Tannhauser." Excellent performance. Marvellous mise- en-scene. Much applause. Good luck.

F. LISZT.

BERLIN, January 8th, 1856.

2O9.

DEAREST RICHARD,

From Berlin I brought home so dreadful a cold that I had to go to bed for a few days, and to
delay my journey till this evening. I have to supplement my Berlin telegram by the following
notes:--

Johanna was beautiful to see and touching to hear as Elizabeth. In the duet with Tannhauser
she had some splendid moments of representation, and her great scene in the finale she sang
and realised in an incomparable manner. Formes's intonation was firm, pure, and correct, and
there was no sign of fatigue in the narration, where his sonorous, powerful voice told admirably.
Altogether Formes is not only adequate but highly satisfactory, in spite of his small stature,
which, especially by the side of Johanna, somewhat interferes with the illusion. Herr Radwaner
as Wolfram, although not equal to our Milde, deserves much praise for the neatness, elegance,
and agreeable style of singing with which he executed his part; and Madame Tuczek proved herself
to be an excellent musician and a well-trained actress, who may be confidently intrusted with
the most difficult part. Dorn and the band took every pains to carry out your intentions, and
the orchestral performance was throughout successful, with the exception of two wrong tempi,
in the first chorus

[Here, Wagner illustrates with a 2-bar musical example.]

where you have forgotten to mark the tempo as piu moderato, that is almost twice as slow as
before, and in the G major passage (before the ensemble in B major), which, in my opinion,
was also taken too fast, the rhythmical climax of the second part of the finale being considerably
impaired thereby.

The chorus had studied its part well, but it is much too weak for Berlin, and in proportion
to the vastness of the opera house, scarcely more efficient than ours, which always gives me
great dissatisfaction. The stringed instruments, also, are not sufficiently numerous, and should,
like the chorus, be increased by a good third. For a large place like this eight to ten double
basses, and fifteen to twenty first violins, etc., would certainly not be too many at important
performances. On the other hand, the scenery and mounting of "Tannhauser" left nothing to be
desired, and I can assure you that never and nowhere have I seen anything so splendid and admirable.
Gropius and Herr von Hulsen have really done something extraordinary and most tasteful. You
have heard, no doubt, that his Majesty the King had ordered the decorations of the second act
to be faithfully reproduced after the designs for the restoration of the Wartburg, and that
he had sent Gropius to Eisenach for the purpose. The aspect of the hall with all the historic
banners, and the costumes taken from old pictures, as well as the court ceremonial during the
reception of the guests by the Landgrave, gave me incredible pleasure, as did also the arrangement
of the huntsmen with their horns on the hill, the gradual filling up of the valley by the gathering
of the hunt (four horses and a falcon bringing up the rear) in the finale of the first act;
and, finally, the fifteen trumpets in the march of the second act

[Musical notation]

which blew their flourish from the gallery of the hall in a bold and defiant manner.

I only hope, dearest Richard, that you will hear and see all this before very long, and when
I pay you a visit in the course of the summer, we shall have some more talk about it.

Your last letter was very sad and bitter. Your illness must have put you out still more, and,
unfortunately, your friends can do little to relieve you. If the consciousness of the most
sincere and cordial comprehension of, and sympathy with, your sufferings can be of any comfort
to you, you may rely upon me in fullest measure, for I do not believe that there are many people
in this universe who have inspired another being with such real and continual sympathy as you
have me.

As soon as you are well again go to work and finish your "Valkyrie." The first two acts I returned
to you. You must sing them to me at Zurich.

I have to ask you yet another favour today. Schlesinger, of Berlin, is bringing out a new edition
of the scores of Gluck's overtures, which is dedicated to me, and he wishes to print your close
of the overture of "Iphigenia in Aulis" in addition to that by Mozart. For that purpose he
wants your special permission, and has asked me to get it from you. If you have no objection
to this close--which has already been published in Brendel's paper-- appearing in this edition,
be kind enough to give me your consent in a few lines, and address your letter, "Hotel Zur
Kaiserin von Oestreich," Vienna, for which I start to-night.

I shall conduct the two concerts for the Mozart centenary celebration on the 27th and 28th
instant, and shall be back in Weymar on February 4th.

Your speedy recovery and patience is the wish with all his heart, dearest Richard, of

Your faithful

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, January 14th, 1856.

210.

ZURICH, January 18th, 1856.

My letter, dear Franz, you will have received at Vienna through Gloggl. I once more put the
question contained therein, and ask you: Can you GIVE me the thousand francs, which would be
still better, and can you settle the same sum on me annually for two years more? If you CAN,
I know that you will willingly join with those who keep me alive by their pecuniary assistance.
My own income is insufficient for the very expensive style of living here, and every new year
I am troubled by a deficit, so that I am really no better off now than I was before. If it
were not for my wife you would see something curious, and I should be proud to go about the
world as a beggar; but the continual uncertainty, and the miserly condition in which we live,
affects my poor wife more and more, and I can keep her mind at rest only by a certain economical
security. More of this when I see you. That I ask you this question at the present moment when
I am sick of life, and would see the end of it today rather than tomorrow, you will probably
understand, when you realise that from the deepest mental grief I am incessantly aroused to
nothing but the mean troubles of existence, this being my only change. I have no doubt of your
WILL, and believe even that it would give you pleasure to belong to those from whom I receive
a regular pension. It remains to be asked only: Can you? I know that some time ago you were
not able, although even at that time you occasionally made real sacrifices to assist me. Perhaps
a change has taken place since then, and on the chance of this "perhaps" I venture to trouble
you with my question.

One other matter I have to place before you. You remember that I wrote to you some time ago
that I had at last discovered here an excellent and intelligent copyist for my musical manuscripts.
To him I gave, in the first instance, Klindworth's pianoforte score of the "Valkyrie," and
he brought me the first act beautifully written; but his charge for the time employed, moderate
enough though I found it, appeared to me so high, that I could not possibly afford the expense
from my yearly income. I considered what might be done, and found that, if I really went on
with my composition, I should have exactly three years' occupation for a copyist This would
include the copying of the full scores, the pianoforte scores, and all the vocal and orchestral
parts. If the enterprise of the performance should in any way be accomplished, three years'
salary for a copyist might well be added to the estimate of the costs, and the question would
be whether one could find, at this moment, a small number of shareholders who would advance
the necessary funds. I should have to engage my amanuensis for exactly three years, and pay
him an annual salary of eight hundred francs. The only awkward part would be that I should
have to bind myself to furnish the compositions in this given time. I might, however, as soon
as I found myself unable to continue, give notice to both shareholders and copyist. For one
year I have more than sufficient work for the copyist, and whatever he had written might, in
such a case, be handed over to the shareholders as a security. I think that would be fair enough.
Kindly see, dearest Franz, whether you can manage this for me. In the meantime I let him go
on with the pianoforte arrangement, but as soon as you are bound to give me a negative answer
I shall stop him, for, as I said before, I cannot bear this expense from my housekeeping money.

It was an evil, evil fate that we did not see each other last year. You must come soon, if
POSSIBLE this SPRING. I feel that on our meeting this time everything, everything depends.
I am continually at war with my health, and fear a relapse at every moment. But let us leave
this for today. We shall soon meet.

Many thanks for your letter from Berlin, received today. Alwine Frommann writes to me every
day, always in a great state of anxiety about the positive and permanent success of "Tannhauser."
It appears that in over-witty and wholly unproductive Berlin everything has to be born anew.
"Kladderadatsch" was quite right in taunting me with the fact that I had surrendered "Tannhauser"
to Berlin, solely for the sake of the royalties. That is so. It is my fault, and I have to
suffer for it as vulgarly as possible. Very well, I suffer, but unfortunately I do not even
get anything by it.

Could I only bring back the state of things of four years ago! Enough. It is my own fault,
and it serves me right.

Try to be as little annoyed as possible at Vienna. I am anxious to learn whether you will be
at all satisfied.

Your letter has once more done me a great deal of good. Yes, dear Franz, I trust in you, and
I know that there is some higher meaning in our friendship. If I could live together with you
I might do many fine things yet. Farewell, and be cordially thanked for your glorious friendship.

Your

R. W.

I have no objection to my close of Gluck's "Iphigenia" overture being used, seeing that I have
already published it. It would be advisable, however, that the overture should appear with
the correct tempi and some necessary marks of expression. Apart from this, Herr Schlesinger,
in his musical paper, might adopt a pleasanter tone towards me in case Herr M. will permit
him to do so.

R. W.

211.

DEAR FRANZ,

My letters to Vienna seem to have put you in a very awkward position. Forgive me, and do not
punish me any longer by your silence!

Before anything else in the world I ask you to pay me as soon as possible the visit, which
was so unfortunately postponed. My desire to consult with you definitely about my future life
has reached a painful pitch, and my longing for you is unspeakable. I am very unhappy.

Your

R. W.

March 21st, 1856.

212.

DEAREST RICHARD,

At last I am able to tell you that you will receive one thousand francs at the BEGINNING of
May. When you wrote to me at Vienna about this matter it was impossible for me to tell you
anything definite, and even now I am unable to undertake an ANNUAL obligation.

I am always sincerely sorry to have to tell you anything disagreeable, and for that reason
I waited for the moment when I should be able to state that the aforesaid sum would be sent
to you. I have more than once explained to you my difficult pecuniary situation, which simply
amounts to this, that my mother and my three children are decently provided for by my former
savings, and that I have to manage on my salary as Capellmeister of one thousand thalers, and
three hundred thalers more by way of a present for the court concerts. For many years, since
I became firmly resolved to live up to my artistic vocation, I have not been able to count
upon any additional money from the music publishers. My Symphonic Poems, of which I shall send
you a few in full score in a fortnight's time, do not bring me in a shilling, but, on the contrary,
cost me a considerable sum, which I have to spend on the purchase of copies for distribution
amongst my friends. My Mass and my "Faust" symphony, etc., are also entirely USELESS works,
and for several years to come I have no chance of earning money. Fortunately I can just manage,
but I must pinch a good deal and have to be careful not to get into any trouble, which might
affect my position very unpleasantly. Do not be angry, therefore, dearest Richard, if I do
not enter upon your proposal, because for the present I can really not undertake any regular
obligations. If, which is not quite impossible, my circumstances should improve later on, it
will be a pleasure to me to relieve your position.

About my journey to Zurich I can tell you nothing until I know when the consecration of the
Gran cathedral is to take place. Some papers state that this solemnity will come off in the
course of September. In that case I shall come to you before, at the beginning of August. As
soon as I have official news I shall write to you. In the meantime I must stay here. On April
8th, the birthday of the Grand Duchess, I have to conduct "I due Foscari" by Verdi, and at
the end of April the performances of your niece Johanna.

Unfortunately I missed Carl Ritter when he called; I had gone to Gotha for that day to hear
the Duke's opera "Tony." Carl Formes sang the title part. I hope I shall see Carl at Zurich.
Remember me kindly to him. Through his sister Emilie you have probably had news of our last
"Lohengrin" performance, which went off very well. Caspari sang "Lohengrin" much better than
it had been heard here before. The Princess of Prussia had asked for the performance, and for
want of a local Ortrud (Frau Knopp, who used to sing the part here, has given up her engagement
and gone to Konigsberg) we had to write for Madame Marx, of Darmstadt, in all haste. An overcrowded
house and a most attentive public were foregone conclusions. Berlioz was present.

Do you correspond with Counsellor Muller? He is sincerely devoted to you, and well intentioned.

Dingelstedt, who was here lately, intends to give "Lohengrin" next winter, and NOT BEFORE.
Of the very DECIDED success of the performance at Prague you have probably heard. Fraulein
Stoger, daughter of the manager there, sang Ortrud, and wrote me a letter full of enthusiasm
about the enthusiasm of the public and the musicians. She was engaged at Weymar until last season.

Farewell, and be patient, dearest friend, and write soon to

Your

F. L.

March 25th, 1856.

213.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Your letter has grieved me very much. Do you really think it necessary to explain to me by
an exact description of your situation why you cannot comply with my request for new pecuniary
assistance? If you only knew how ashamed and humiliated I feel!

It is true that I applied elsewhere first, and then came back to you, because the feeling of
having to accept benefits from less intimate friends frequently becomes absolutely unbearable
to me.

This induced me to apply for assistance to you, who never allow me to feel the deepest obligations
in a painful sense. I thought, of course, more of your protection and intercession than of
a sacrifice of your personal income, because I know sufficiently well how limited your resources
are. That I spoke in so determined a manner was owing to the eccentric nature of my whole situation,
which makes everything concerning my most intimate feeling take a violent form.

About this also I feel the absolute necessity of personal communication with you. Everything
here is so delicate, so finely threaded, that it cannot be explained by letter. I want so much
patience to preserve courage and love of work in my precarious position, that in my daily efforts
to keep up that courage in spite of my miserable circumstances, I can only gain a few moments
in which I am happy in my work, and forget all around me. The reason is that delusive possibilities
of escape continually haunt my troubled imagination. But about this we must have some definite
conversation.

Your offer of help in the circumstances in which you make it to me has placed me in a painful
position, and so much is certain, that I cannot accept the sum which you promise to me for
May in order to make my life more pleasant. I must put my income on a different basis, that
is understood, and you will understand me if I say so. If, on the other hand, you contrive
to dispose of that sum in my favour under conditions less troublesome to yourself, I accept
it for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the copying of my scores and pianoforte arrangements,
which is very expensive here. I have already spent some money on it, and the hole this has
made in my income I must fill up somehow. I certainly cannot go on paying for the copying with
my own money. I therefore undertake, for the sum already named, to have all the scores and
pianoforte arrangements of my "Nibelung" dramas copied, and to place the copies at your disposal
as your property, assuming at the same time that you will kindly lend them to me, as soon and
as often as I want them. Are you satisfied with this?

The copy of the "Rhinegold" is quite ready, and I expect it back from London, together with
Klindworth's arrangement. This therefore, would be at your disposal at once. Of the pianoforte
arrangement of the "Valkyrie," the first two acts will be finished very soon; the third act
I recently sent to Klindworth. Hoping that you will accept my proposal, I shall now have the
copy of the full score of the "Valkyrie" taken in hand, and this also you can have as soon
as it is finished, because Klindworth works from my sketches of the parts. If at this moment
you have leisure, and wish to look at it, I will with pleasure let you have the original score
of the finished work for some time, and shall occupy the copyist with the pianoforte arrangement
of the "Rhinegold" which I expect very soon. I am very anxious to know how the last act will
please you, for, besides you, there is really no one to whom I could show it with any satisfaction.
I have succeeded, and it is probably the best thing I have written. It contains a terrible
storm of the elements and the hearts, which is gradually calmed down to the miraculous sleep
of Brynhild. What a pity you will be far from me for so long! Could you not pay me a short
flying visit soon?

And am I at last to see some of your new compositions? Their arrival and entry into my home
shall be blessed. I have desired to see them ever so long.

Had you nothing more to tell me about Berlioz? I was expecting to hear a great deal of him.
And cannot you send me any of his scores? I am, as you may imagine, making a pause in my work
now. I am waiting to see what my health will do; my doctor wants to send me to some watering
place, but to this I will not, and cannot agree. If I knew how to manage it I should go with
Semper to Rome in the autumn. We frequently talk about it, always in the silent hope that you
might be one of the party. Here you have my latest whim. A thousand greetings to the Princess
and her daughter. She has written me a very cheerful and friendly letter, for which I am deeply
obliged to her. I ask you fervently, dearest friend, not again to keep me waiting for a letter
so long. Write to me soon and at some length, as we are not going to meet just yet.

Farewell, and continue to love me.

Your

R. W.

214.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

Before taking any steps with regard to my amnesty, I must, once more, take counsel with you,
and as this is impossible by word of mouth, as I should have wished, it must be done by letter
as briefly as possible.

From Prague the Director of Police there, Baron von Peimann, sent me the advice that I should
become a Swiss citizen. In that case the Austrian minister would give his vise to my passport
for all the Imperial states, and I might then reside there without being disturbed, for if
Saxony should claim me, the reply would be that no Saxon subject of the name of R. W. was known.
This would give me some air at least in one direction, and although not much would be gained
by it, I might make use of it if there were an intention of performing "Tannhauser" at Vienna,
which opera I should let them have there only on condition of my conducting it personally.
It is of course more important to me to be allowed to return to Germany proper, not in order
to reside there permanently, for I can thrive only in the retirement which I can best secure
in a little quiet place in Switzerland, but in order to be present now and then at an important
performance, especially of "Lohengrin," and to gain the necessary excitement, without which
I must perish at last. I am FIRMLY RESOLVED not to allow "Lohengrin" to be given at either
Berlin or Munich WITHOUT ME. A performance of my "Nibelungen" can of course not be thought
of, unless I have the permission to travel through Germany so as to gain a knowledge of the
acting and singing materials at the theatres. Finally I feel the absolute necessity of living,
at least part of every year, near YOU, and you may be assured that I should make a more frequent
and more constant use of the possibility of visiting you than you do. To gain all this has
now become a matter of the greatest importance to me, and I cannot go on living without at
last and quickly taking a decisive step in that direction. I am therefore determined to apply
to the King of Saxony for my amnesty in a letter in which I shall candidly own my rashness,
and at the same time explicitly state that my promise, never and in no manner to meddle with
politics, comes from my very heart. The drawback to this is that, if the other side were ill-inclined,
my letter might easily be published in such a manner that I should be compelled to protest
publicly against a false and humiliating explanation of my step, and this would lead to a permanent
breach, which would make reconciliation impossible. Taking all this into account, I must think
it the best thing if my request were laid before the King by word of mouth, through a third
person. To satisfy me completely, and give me a chance of success, this could only be done
by you, dear Franz. Therefore I ask you plainly, Will you undertake to demand an audience of
the King of Saxony on the strength of a letter from the Grand Duke of Weimar? What you should
say to the King at such an audience I need not indicate, but we surely agree that in asking
for my amnesty stress should be laid upon my ARTISTIC NATURE. On account of that nature and
of my individual character as an artist, my startling political excess can alone be explained
and excused, and the reasons for my amnesty should be considered in the same light. With regard
to that excess and to its consequences, which have continued for several years, I am ready
to admit that I appear to myself as one who was in error and led away by passion, although
I am not conscious that I have committed a real crime, which would come under a judicial sentence,
and I should therefore find it difficult to plead guilty to such a crime. Concerning my conduct
in the future, I should be prepared to make any binding promise that could be desired of me.
I should only have to announce the modified and clearer view which makes me look upon the affairs
of this world in a light in which I did not see them previously, and which induces me to confine
myself to my art, without any reference to political speculation. You might also point out
that my reappearance in Germany could in no circumstances give rise to a demonstration which,
although it might be meant for the artist only, could be explained and applied in a political
sense by evil-disposed persons. Fortunately I have, as AN ARTIST, reached such a stage that
I need consider only my works of art and their success, but no longer the applause of the multitude.
I would therefore promise, with the greatest determination and quite in accordance with my
own wishes, to avoid every public demonstration of sympathy which might be offered to me, even
as an artist, such as complimentary dinners and the like. These I should most positively decline,
and indeed make them, as far as would be in my power, impossible by the mode of my sojourn
in various places. I should not even insist upon conducting the performance of any of my operas
in person. All I should care for would be to secure a correct rendering on the part of the
artists and the conductor by my presence at the rehearsals. If, for the purpose of avoiding
any possible demonstration, it should be thought necessary, I should be prepared to leave the
town after the completion of the rehearsals and before the performance, which would show clearly
enough what is alone of importance to me. In addition to this, I will undertake to avoid in
my writings, even of a purely artistic nature, such combative expressions open to misapprehension
as may have escaped me formerly in my irritability. Considering all these declarations, the
future need be dealt with no longer, only the past. And over that it would be well, in the
case of an artist, to throw the veil of forgetfulness, not to make it a cause for revenge.
All this you might in conversation explain in a much more comprehensive and conciliatory manner
than I could do by letter, especially in a petition for amnesty.

I therefore ask you most fervently, perform this great service of friendship for me. Sacrifice
to me the two days which a visit to Dresden would cost you, and explain the matter with that
emphasis which alone can avail. From no other measure can I expect a definite and positive
result. You alone can speak for me in the manner which is required. If, for special reasons,
you should refuse my demand, it would only remain to me to write to the King myself, and in
that case we should have to consider by whom my letter could be forwarded to the King, perhaps
through the Weimar ambassador. In case the King should refuse my request I might fall back
upon the intercession of one of the Prussian ministers, which has been offered to me for that
purpose. But I rely little on that, while I expect everything from you and your personal pleading.
Be good enough then to let me know soon what I had better do.

Farewell, and accept the cordial greetings of your

RICHARD W.

ZURICH, April 13th, 1858.

Perhaps you might on the same occasion hand a copy of my "Nibelungen" poem to the King.

215.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I have not neglected the steps for your return to Germany. Unfortunately my late efforts and
endeavours have not as yet led to a favourable result, which proves by no means that such may
not be the case in the future. Your hint about the roundabout way, viz., Prague, I believe
to be an illusion which you ought not to cherish, because it might lead to the most dangerous
consequences.

The only thing that I can advise, and which I most urgently request you to do, is to send at
once your petition to His Majesty the King of Saxony.

The stage into which this affair has got makes such a step absolutely necessary, and you may
be sure that I should not urge you to it if I were not firmly convinced that your return to
Germany cannot be brought about in any other way. As you have already told me that you would
write to the King, I feel sure that you will do so without delay. Send me a copy of your letter
to the King. You should, in the first instance, ask for an amnesty to the extent only THAT
YOU MIGHT BE PERMITTED TO HEAR YOUR WORKS AT WEYMAR, because this would be necessary for your
intellectual development, and because you felt sure that the Grand Duke of Weymar would receive
you in a kindly spirit. It breaks my heart to have to prescribe such tedious methods, but believe
me, in that direction lies your only way to Germany. When you have once been here for a few
weeks the rest will be easily arranged, and I shall give you the necessary information in due
course.

In the meantime we must have patience and again patience.

Take heart of grace in the hope which I have by no means abandoned, that we shall see you here.

Your faithful

F. LISZT.

Johanna has been here this last week, and has sung Orpheus and Romeo with the MOST ENORMOUS
applause.

I shall have to tell you many things about her when we meet.

By this post you receive the three first numbers of my Symphonic Poems, which have just been
published.

216.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Your last letter found me again on a sick bed. Today I am scarcely recovered, and fear another
relapse; that is how I am.

Today I received the second instalment of your Symphonic Poems, and I feel all of a sudden
so rich that I can scarcely believe it. Unfortunately it is only with great difficulty that
I can gain a clear conception of them. This would be done with lightning rapidity if you could
play them to me. I am looking forward with the eagerness of a child to studying them. If I
could only be well again!

(Do you want the third act of the "Valkyrie?" My copyist works so slowly that there will be
plenty of time for you to let me know your wishes. The copy of the full score of the "Rhinegold"
I expect back from Klindworth before long, and shall send it to you.)

I am going to take a purgative in order to avoid the return of my illness. I wish I could,
instead, start for Purgatory at once.

Adieu. A thousand thanks for your friendship.

R. W.

217.

MORNEX, near GENEVA, July 12th, 1856.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

I have flown, as you see, to this place in order to seek final recovery. I could not help laughing
when the excellent Princess, with much sorrow and sympathy, announced the impending arrival
of the M. family at Zurich. From evils of that kind I am safe. No outsider can know approximately
what troubles and tortures people of our stamp suffer when we sacrifice ourselves in the intercourse
with heterogeneous strangers. These tortures are all the greater because no one else can understand
them, and because the most unsympathetic people believe that we are in reality like themselves;
for they understand only just that part of us which we really have in common with them, and
do not perceive how little, how almost nothing that is. To repeat it, the tortures of this
kind of intercourse are positively the most painful of all to me, and I am only intent upon
keeping to myself. I force myself to solitude, and to achieve this is my greatest care. When
I was on the point of taking flight, at the end of May, Tichatschek suddenly called on me.
This good man, with his splendid, childlike heart, and his amiable little head, was very agreeable
to me, and his enthusiastic attachment to me did me good. I was specially pleased with his
voice, and tried to persuade myself that I still had confidence in it.

I wanted to take him to Brunnen, but bad weather delayed our purpose; still we risked it after
all, when the carriage drive brought me another attack of erysipelas in the face--the TWELFTH
this winter. I had foreseen all this, and therefore during Tichatschek's stay of twelve days,
was in a state of continual, painful anxiety. This abominable illness has brought me very low.
In the month of May alone I had three relapses, and even now not an hour passes without my
living in fear of a new attack. In consequence, I am unfit for anything, and it is obvious
that I must think of my thorough recovery. For that purpose a painfully strict regime with
regard to diet and general mode of life is required; the slightest disorder of my stomach immediately
affects my complaint. What I want is absolute rest, avoidance of all excitement and annoyance,
etc.; also Carlsbad water, certain warm baths later on cold ones, and the like. In order to
get away from home as far as possible, and to avoid all temptation to social intercourse, I
have retired here, where I have found a very convenient refuge. I live at two hours' distance
from Geneva, on the other side of Mont Saleve, halfway from the top, in splendid air. At a
Pension I discovered a little summer-house, apart from the chief building, where I live quite
alone. From the balcony I have the most divine view of the whole Mont Blanc range, and from
the door I step into a pretty little garden. Absolute seclusion was my first condition. I am
served separately, and see no one but the waiter. A dear little dog, the successor of Peps,
Fips by name, is my only company. ONE thing I had to concede in return for the favour of possessing
this garden salon; every Sunday morning from nine till twelve I have to turn out. At that hour
a clergyman comes from Geneva and performs divine service for the Protestants of this place,
in the same locality which I, a godless being, occupy for the rest of the time. But I willingly
make this sacrifice, were it only for the sake of religion. I fancy I shall meet with my reward.
But the thing is frightfully dear, and without your subsidy I could not have undertaken this
expedition. I have had to make an inroad into the money which I had destined for the copying
of the scores; I could not help it. The money from Vienna arrived exactly on my birthday; accept
my cordial thanks for this sacrifice. I know it is infamous that you have to give me money;
why do you do it? On the same occasion I was gratified by a few very friendly lines from your
relative, of whose existence I was not aware; they somewhat sweetened the bitterness of having
to take money from you. Remember me to him, and thank him cordially in my name.

A piano, although not of the first order, stands in my salon. I hope I shall soon have the
courage to begin my "Siegfried" at last, but first of all I must take your scores thoroughly
in hand. How many things you have sent me! I had been longing to have, at last, some of your
new works; but now this wealth almost embarrasses me, and I shall require time to take in everything
properly. For that purpose it would, of course, be necessary for me to hear your poems, or
for you to play them to me. It is very well to read something of that kind, but the real salt,
that which decides and solves all doubts, can only be enjoyed by actual hearing. In that terrible
month of May I was able only to look at your scores with a tired eye, and as through dark clouds;
but even then I received the electric shock, which none but great things produce on us, and
so much I know that you are a wonderful man, by whose side I can place no other phenomenon
in the domains of art and of life. So much was I struck by your conception, and by the design
of your execution in its larger outlines, that I at once longed for something new--the three
remaining pieces, and "Faust" and "Dante." There you see what I am. Without having made myself
acquainted with the finer details of the artistic execution proper I wanted to go on, probably
because I had to despair of recognizing these without hearing them. For nothing is more misleading
and useless than to attempt this by a laborious, halting and blundering performance on the
piano, while an excellent and expressive execution in the right tempo at once produces the
right picture in its varied colours. That is why you are so fortunate in being able to do this
with supreme excellence. If I look upon your artistic career, different as it is from any other,
I clearly perceive the instinct which led you into the path now trodden by you. You are by
nature the genuine, happy artist who not only produces, but also represents. Whatever formerly,
as a pianist, you might play, it was always the personal communication of your beautiful individuality
which revealed entirely new and unknown things to us, and he only was able and competent to
judge you to whom you had played in a happy mood. This new and indescribably individual element
was still dependent on your personality, and without your actual presence it did, properly
speaking, not exist. On hearing you one felt sad, because these marvels were to be irretrievably
lost with your person, for it is absurd to think that you could perpetuate your art through
your pupils, as some one at Berlin boasted lately. But nature, by some infallible means, always
takes care of the permanent existence of that which she produces so seldom and only under abnormal
conditions; and she showed you the right way. You were led to perpetuate the miracle of your
personal communication in a manner which made it independent of your individual existence.
That which you played on the piano would not have been sufficient for this purpose, for it
became only through means of your personal interpretation what it appeared to us to be; for
which reason, let me repeat it, it was frequently indifferent what and whose works you played.
You, therefore, without any effort, hit upon the idea of replacing your personal art by the
orchestra, that is, by compositions which, through the inexhaustible means of expression existing
in the orchestra, were able to reflect your individuality without the aid of your individual
presence. Your orchestral works represent to me, so to speak, your personal art in a monumental
form; and in that respect they are so new, so incomparable to anything else, that criticism
will take a long time to find out what to make of them. Ah me! all this seems very awkward
and open to misunderstanding in a letter; but when we meet I think I shall be able to tell
you many new things which you have made clear to me. I hope I shall have the necessary leisure
and sufficient lucidity of expression. For that purpose I want good health; for, failing this,
I always lapse into that fatal irritability which frustrates everything, and always leaves
the best things unsaid. For the same reason, and because our meeting is to me, as it were,
the goal for which I strive as the one desirable end, my only care now is the perfect recovery
of my health. Let us hope that my efforts and many sacrifices will lead me to it. I shall take
care to send you accounts at frequent intervals. My amnesty is of importance to me for this
reason ONLY, that in the case of success my way to you would always lie open; if it is granted
to me you will have to put up with me for some time next winter.

Franz Muller has congratulated me on my birthday in a very touching manner. I cannot write
to him today, but I ask you to give him the news I send you, and to assure him that his friendship
is a great boon to me. In case he cannot accompany you when you visit me, I hope to become
thoroughly acquainted with him at your house in the autumn, if only the Saxon Minister of Justice
will listen to reason. Even his intention of visiting me has made me very happy.

A thousand cordial thanks for the letter of the dear Princess, who soon will have to take the
title of private secretary. My best greetings to ALL.

The splendid air and the quiet sympathetic surroundings which I have been enjoying for two
days have already cheered me up a little, and I begin to have hopes of perfect health.

Farewell, my dearest, my only friend. For heaven's sake, do not be so chary of your communications.

When we compare letters some day, I shall appear a veritable babbler by the side of you; while
you, on the other hand, will make a noble show as a man of deeds. But, dearest Franz, a little
confidential talk is not to be despised. Take note of this, you aristocratic benefactor!

Farewell, and write to me soon. I shall once more have a good go at your scores, and hope to
get well into them. My address is still Poste restante, Geneve.

Your

R. W.

Your "Mazeppa" is terribly beautiful; I was quite out of breath when I read it for the first
time. I pity the poor horse; nature and the world are horrible. I would really rather write
poetry than music just now; it requires no end of obstinacy to stick to one thing. I have again
two splendid subjects which I must execute. "Tristan and Isolde," you know, and after that
the "Victory," the most sacred, the most perfect salvation. But that I cannot yet tell you.
For the final "Victory" I have another interpretation than that supplied by Victor Hugo, and
your music has given it to me, all but the close; for greatness, glory, and the dominion of
nations I do not care at all.

218.

My Hungarian journey has, during the last three weeks, become unexpectedly a doubtful matter,
and I did not like, dearest Richard, to write to you before I could tell you something more
definite; for the time of my visit must be arranged according to that journey taking or not
taking place. The consecration of Gran cathedral is fixed for August 31st, and in case I go
there to conduct my Mass, I should be with you in Zurich about September 15th or 20th; but
if I am relieved of that duty I shall be at Zurich about the end of August. I hope to know
by the end of next week what has been settled, and shall then ask the Princess to let you know
particulars. In the meantime, albeit used to waiting, I did not care to wait any longer before
I told you that I am an hungered and athirst for being together with you, and going through
our programme of NONSENSE; the hors d'oeuvre (which, as you know, have the quality of exciting
both hunger and thirst) of your feast of "Rhinegold" and "Valkyrie" will be my symphony to
Dante's "Divina Commedia," which will belong to you and was finished yesterday. It takes a
little less than an hour in performance, and may amuse you.

After that you will speak to me about your VICTORY, the most sacred, the most perfect salvation....What
will it be? The few hints in your last letter have made me very curious to know the whole idea.

Your amnesty business will, for the present, remain in statu quo, but I hope you will come
to me next winter, and am preparing your rooms at Altenburg. Speak to no one about it. I shall
tell you what I have heard when I see you. Before all, take care of your health, and do all
you can so that more rosy aspects may open before you than the roses which erysipelas has painted
on your face. Unfortunately, with regard to external matters, I cannot present you with many
rosy things, although, as far as appearances go, I am counted amongst the happy. It is true
I am happy, as happy as a child of this earth can be. I may confess this to you, because you
know the infinite self-sacrifice and invincible love which have supported my whole existence
for the last eight years. Why need I be disturbed by other troubles? All else is only the peace-offering
for my exalted happiness.

Do not reproach me any longer for not telling you anything about myself, for in these words
I confide to you the secret of my usual silence.

Forgive me for not having written to you so long; the Hungarian troubles, caused by my Mass,
were at fault. Let me know soon whether you are back at Zurich, and whether my coming to you
about the end of August or the middle of September will suit you. You will receive more definite
news before long. You have probably seen in the newspapers that Herr and Frau Milde sang the
duet from the Dutchman at the Magdeburg Musical Festival excellently, and with splendid success.
At the rehearsal I made the horns repeat several times, till at last they succeeded in pulsating
tenderly and passionately. The critic of the Magdeburg Gazette says:-

"Although we were at first not sorry that Wagner's name did not appear in the programme, it
was very interesting to hear this scene sung by the two Mildes, who have studied these compositions
under the direction of Herr Liszt, the chief representative of the Wagner movement. Both sang
beautifully, and in many passages, especially in the second half, with overpowering beauty.
We close our notice with the words of the duet, 'We were conquered by a mighty charm.'"

Criticisms in the newspapers remind me of A., whom, during my stay at Berlin, I found in the
most touching state of anxiety about the notices of the performance of "Tannhauser" that might
be published by the Berlin press. Highly estimating, as I do, her friendship for you, which
also keeps up a kind of amiable feeling between us two, I could not avoid offending her a little
by my indifference. Again, during her last stay here, about three weeks ago, she excited me
to a few bad jokes by the enthusiastic interest with which she attended a performance of Auber's
"Le Macon" at the theatre here. She was indeed near being seriously offended by my bad jokes
at the many-sidedness of taste, or rather, the want of taste, shown by her veneration for this
musique de grisettes. When an occasion offers I will try to make it up with her.

I have only too many opportunities of experiencing what you so justly say of the troubles and
inconveniences which arise to us from intercourse with heterogeneous persons, although I may
boast of possessing a thicker and more impenetrable skin, and a much larger portion of patience,
than you.

For today I must not tax your patience any more by gossip of this kind. In a few weeks we shall
communicate without the aid of ink and paper, which is the real and wholesome thing for us.

Perhaps the Princess will accompany me to Zurich this time.

Your

F. L.

219.

MORNEX, NEAR GENEVA, July 2Oth, 1856.

You may easily imagine, dearest Franz, how delighted I was by your letter. Sometimes I grow
anxious about you when I do not see you or have proper news from you for such a long time;
I always think then that you care for me no longer. I shall not write to you anything rational
now, for your letter can be answered only by word of mouth. God knows, I castigate my flesh
by this cure chiefly in order to be quite well when we meet at last. As regards my health,
I could not have done better than place myself under the immediate guidance and supervision
of an excellent French physician, Dr. Vaillant, who conducts a hydropathic establishment here.
I conquered my first aversion to the course when I recognized the valour of this Parisian Vaillant.
I go thoroughly to work in using this new and careful treatment, and feel sure of being completely
cured of my ailment, which, after all, was caused by nervousness. But it is more than possible
that I shall be detained by it till the end of August, and I should therefore prefer, after
all, if you could come about the middle of September. This also seems to me more likely, because
I cannot believe that you will give up Gran altogether. I expect then to see you crowned with
glory on your return from the land of your fathers.

Your Symphonic Poems are now quite familiar to me; they are the only music which occupies me
at present, for during my cure I must not think of doing any work. I read one or other of the
scores every day, just as I might read a poem, fluently and without stopping. I feel every
time as if I had dived into a deep crystal flood, to be there quite by myself, leaving all
the world behind me, and living for an hour my real life. Refreshed and strengthened, I rise
again to long for your presence. Yes, friend, you can do it, YOU CAN DO IT!

Well, not much can be said about it; the noblest expressions might easily seem a little trivial
in such a connection. Enough, you will soon be here, and bring me my Dante. This is a beautiful,
glorious lookout; I thank you.

I sent you yesterday a parcel containing the original scores of "Rhinegold" and the "Valkyrie."
Their fate will probably be a peculiar one. Let me explain briefly:--

I shall perish, and shall be quite incapable of further work, unless I find a habitation such
as I require, viz., a small house to myself and a garden, both removed from all noise, and
especially from the damnable pianoforte noise, which I am doomed not to escape wherever I turn,
not even here, and which has made me so nervous that even the very thought of it prevents me
from thinking of work. Four years I tried in vain to realise this wish, which I can accomplish
only by buying a piece of ground and building a house on it. Over this possibility I brooded
like a madman, when it occurred to me not long ago to offer my "Nibelungen" to the Hartels,
and to get the necessary money from them. They have expressed to me their willingness of doing
something out of the way in order to gain possession of my work, and I have in consequence
made the following demand: They are to purchase the two pieces which have already been finished,
and are to expect "Siegfried" in the course of next year, and "Siegfried's Death" at the end
of 1858, paying in each instance the honorarium on the delivery of the manuscript. They also
bind themselves to publish the whole in 1859, the year of the performance. I have been led
to this by sheer despair; the Hartels are to supply me with means for the purchase of a piece
of ground according to my fancy. If we agree, which must be decided soon, I shall have to send
them, in the first instance, my two scores, so as to place them in possession of the material
for their future publication. But they will only keep them long enough to take a copy, and
then return the originals to you. In any case, if I want the money, I must enable them to take
actual possession. They must of course lend me the scores, in case they have not yet been copied,
during your visit to me; that is understood. As you do not yet know the last act of the "Valkyrie,"
I send you the score before taking further steps, so that you, and no one else, may be the
first to whom I communicate it. If you have time, read the act quickly, and then keep the whole
in readiness for sending it to the Hartels as soon as I ask you. About this whole matter, however,
we must come to a better understanding when we meet.

During my cure here I have become terribly indifferent towards my work. Lord knows, if I am
not much encouraged to finish it, I shall leave it alone. Why should a poor devil like me worry
and plague himself with these terrible burdens if my contemporaries will not even grant me
a place for doing my work? I have told the Hartels as much; if they will not help me to a house,
detached and situated on an eminence, such as I want it, I shall leave the whole rubbish alone.

Well, if you only will come, I shall not trouble Saxony and the rest of Germany for some time.
Bring the Princess with you, do you hear? And the Child, too, must come. If you put me in a
good temper I shall perhaps lay my "Victors" before you, although this will be very difficult.
For although I have carried the idea about with me for a long time, the material for its embodiment
has only just been shown to me as in a flash of lightning. To me it is most clear and definite,
but not as yet fit for communication. Moreover, you must first have digested my "Tristan,"
especially the third act, with the black flag and the white. After that you will understand
the "Victors" better.

But I am saying vague things.

Come and bring me the divine comedy, and we shall see then how we can come to an understanding
about the divine tragedy.

Thine for ever and aye,

R. W.

I pray you most ardently to let me know AT ONCE by a line the receipt, or possibly the non-receipt,
of my scores.

I always feel nervous when I know they are on the road. They left Geneva yesterday.

My address is:-

a Mornex, Poste restante, No. III, a Geneve.

220.

I say, Franz, a divine idea strikes me.

YOU MUST GET ME AN ERARD GRAND!

Write to the widow and tell her that you visit me THREE TIMES every year, and that you must
absolutely have a better grand piano than the old and lame one in my possession. Tell her a
hundred thousand fibs, and make her believe that it is for her a point of honour that an Erard
should stand in my house.

In brief, do not think, but act with the impudence of genius. I MUST HAVE AN ERARD. If they
will not give me one let them lend me one on a yard-long lease.

Adieu.

221.

I am leaving Mornex.

I shall be better than ever on September 20th.

Write to Madame Erard that she must send me a grand piano at once. I will pay her in instalments
of five hundred francs a year without a doubt.

It must be here when you come.

Happiness and joy to you.

222.

I thank you, dearest, most unique of men, for having sent me your scores of "Rhinegold" and
the "Valkyrie." The work has for me the fabulous attractive power of the magnet mountain, which
fetters irresistibly the ship and the sailor. H. has been with me for a few days, and I was
unable to withhold from him the joy of viewing Valhall. So he tinkles and hammers the orchestra
on the piano, while I howl, and groan, and roar the vocal parts; this by way of prelude to
OUR great performance at your Zurich palace, to which I am looking forward with longing.

In a week's time I start for Hungary, and my Mass will be performed on August 31st, on the
occasion of the Gran ceremony, for which it has been written. For several minor reasons I must,
after that, stay at Pesth and Vienna for a few weeks, and shall therefore not be at Zurich
till about September 20th. Probably the Princess will come, too, together with her daughter.

Franz Muller will pay you a visit at Mornex about the middle of this month, and will show you
his work on the "Nibelungen."

The two scores I shall leave here in the keeping of the Princess until you write to HER that
they are to be sent to the Hartels.

Your idea of becoming a houseowner at Zurich is quite peculiar, and I congratulate you cordially
on the building delights which await you.

Dawison told me recently that his starring engagement had enabled him to buy a villa near Dresden.
At the same rate, you ought to be able to purchase with your scores at least the whole of Zurich,
together with the Sieben Churfursten and the lake.

Whether Madame Erard will be inclined to dispose of a grand piano on the advantageous terms
you mention is a questionable question, which I shall put to her when I have the chance. Try,
first of all, to get quite well; the other ARRANGEMENTS will come in due course.

May God protect you.

F. L.

August 1st, 1856.

We are just going together with H. (who wishes to be remembered to you), to have another try
at the last act of the "Valkyrie."

223.

DEAREST FRIEND,

In order to give you a little more diversion I herewith introduce to you Herr Zeugherr, an
architect, and an acquaintance of Ernst's; he is in search of a little villa for me to compose
in, but has as yet found nothing. Perhaps you will inspire him.

Farewell, and receive best greetings from your

R. WAGNER.

ZURICH.

224.

Friday Evening.

DEAREST FRIEND,

That I ran away from you was a perfect inspiration, which should bring noble fruit both to
you and to me.

I shall go to bed at nine; do you likewise, and sleep by the book, so that we may present to
each other to-morrow morning a couple of fresh faces, ready to face the world.

I shall study "Mephistopheles" a little today.

If you like we will do some Valkyring tomorrow.

May a thousand gods protect you.

R. W. 225.

DEAR FRANZ,

Believe me, by all that is sacred to you and me, that I am ill, and require the most perfect
rest and care today, in order, let us hope, to enjoy you again tomorrow. A very considerable,
though welcome and wholesome, catarrh weighs down my limbs like lead. It developed during last
night, together with an inflamed throat and other addenda. The slightest excitement would impede
my recovery.

Au revoir in a rational matter tomorrow.

Yours,

W. R.

226.

MY DEAREST FRANZ,

I must think it really fortunate that you this time cultivate a few other acquaintances, and
that I may therefore disappear for a short time without attracting too much attention.

My catarrh has developed so thoroughly and nobly, that I may hope it will rid me of my usual
winter illness, if I take proper care of it; even now I perceive the beneficial effect of nature's
self-relief, although I feel as if leaden fetters were on me. I am sure that I shall be better
in a few days, and am looking forward to offering you the fruits of my recovery in the shape
of an excellent temper.

For today I am a strict patient, and must not think of a visit to Herwegh. If you will give
me the pleasure of seeing you today, I inform you that I shall have to perspire from noon to
4 p.m.; before or afterwards my aspect would be less horrible. The hardest thing was that I
had to miss the organ concert yesterday. But resignation helps me over everything.

I will try to finish the letter to the Grand Duke today.

A hundred thousand most cordial remembrances to the whole Rectory. How are you, indefatigable man?

227.

Sunday, early.

Here I sit again gazing after you. My best thanks to your dear Princess for the first news.
My mind was set at rest not a little on hearing that you had been able to continue your journey
to Munich without mishap. There you will be able to rest a little more comfortably than at
the Hecht of St. Gallen. Rest? Ye indefatigable ones!

A thousand ardent blessings follow you everywhere. What you have become to me your hearts will
tell you. You are so rich a possession to me that I scarcely know how to realise it. But on
the other hand, you are to me a continual sermon of repentance; I cannot think of you without
being heartily ashamed of myself.

How can you bear with me, who appear so unbearable to myself?

But I am not without good resolutions of amendment. Although I shall palm off great part of
the care on my doctor, who is to put me completely on my legs again next spring, I am too well
aware that an enormous labour--less watercure than purgatory--lies before me. Yes, I will shut
myself up in that Purgatorio, and hope, dearest Franz, that I shall do so well that I may greet
you with a MAGNIFICAT soon. It is true that I shall never be able to equal you, but then you
are the only genuine virtuoso.

My aesthetic efforts will, I hope, cure my moral prostration to some extent. I must try tomorrow
to break the news of the death of his mother to "Siegfried." On Thursday evening I arrived
at the Zeltweg, freezing and empty, with a violent cold and in terrible weather; since then
I have not set foot out of doors. All I did was to find a good place for the Madonna and Francesca,
which was a difficult job. I hammered like Mime. Now all is safe and sound. The Madonna hangs
over my writing table and Francesca over the sofa, under the looking-glass, where she looks
beautiful. When I begin "Tristan" Francesca will have to go over the writing table, and the
turn of the Madonna will not come again until I take the "Victors" in hand. For the present
I will try to inspire myself a little with the victrix, and to imagine that I could do the
same thing.

My studs are much finer than yours, dear Child; that any one can see. Yours have the sole advantage
of moving one to resignation, while mine excite my vanity terribly--a kind of surreptitious
vanity, not before the eyes of people, but all to myself; merely for the sake of the studs,
not for effect. It is just the same with my "Nibelungen." You always think of the effect of
the performance, I of the shirt studs that may be hidden in it.

Well, my blessings on you. If only the dear "lady friend" would soon recover her health, so
that the great professors of Munich might delight in the "Rectory family"! Dear, good Princess,
and dear, dear Franz,

MON BON GRAND! Good and great you are. My blessings on you! Farewell, and forget all bad and
unpleasant things about me. Remember only the kindness of which you thought me worthy.

Adieu. I am always yours.

My wife has not scolded me once, although yesterday I had the spleen badly enough. She greets
you with all her power, and is thankful for your friendship.

228.

ZURICH, December 6th, 1856.

I have not forgotten to convey your greetings and inquiries. Wesendonck has written to me in
reply, and enclosed a letter of his wife's to the Princess, which I herewith ask you to hand
to her.

I long for news from you. How are you, dear Franz, and does the Princess keep her health? From
her daughter I soon expect a letter, as we have promised to correspond with each other.

I feel so-so. I shall finish the first scene one of these days. Curiously enough, it is only
during composition that the real essence of my poem is revealed to me. Everywhere I discover
secrets which had been previously hidden from me, and everything in consequence grows more
passionate, more impulsive. Altogether it will require a good deal of obstinacy to get all
this done, and you have not really put me in the right mind for it.

However, I must think that I am doing all this for myself, in order to pass the days. Be it so.

You may believe me or not, I have no other desire than that of coming to you soon. Do not fail
to let me know always what chances there are. I want music, too, and, Heaven knows, you are
the only one who can supply me with it. As a musician, I feel perfectly mean, while I think
I have discovered that you are the greatest musician of all times. This will be something new
to you.

Adieu. Tell M. that I have overhauled the old red letter case, and have got my biography up
to December 1st, 1856, into shape.

A hundred thousand remembrances to mother and child.

Farewell, and take care to let me have some of your new scores soon.

Your R. W.

229.

MUNICH, December 12th, 1856.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I have come to a close of my stay at Munich, and want to send you a few short notes of it before
returning to Weymar, which will happen tomorrow evening. First of all about the performance
of "Tannhauser", which took place last Sunday (apart from the subscription nights) for the
benefit of the Munich poor. The Princess had taken two boxes, which we occupied together with
Kaulbach, E. Forster, Liebig, Carriere, and others. The scenery and dresses are brilliant,
but probably you would not like them particularly, and I, for my part, think them mannered
and pretentious. In the orchestra the wind (especially flutes, clarinets, and bassoon) is excellent.
The violins and double basses (six in number) are a little hazy, and lack the necessary energy,
both in bowing, which is short and easy-going, and in rhythm. The PIANOS and CRESCENDOS are
insufficient, and for the same reason there is no fulness in the FORTES. "Lachner" has, no
doubt, studied the score with the greatest accuracy and care, for which thanks and praise are
due to him. But in the drama, as you know and say best, "we must become WISE by means of FEELING."
"Reason tells us SO IT IS, only after feeling has told us SO IT MUST BE;" and as far as I can
tell, Lachner's feeling says little about "TANNHAUSER", although he was called several times
before the curtain at the first performances. The part of "Tannhauser" was sung by "Herr Jung",
the husband of "Lucile Gran." He succeeded, in my opinion, better than the public here seemed
to think, which is, as a rule, somewhat lukewarm and stolid. "Frau Dietz", whose figure and
personality do not particularly fit her for "Elizabeth", sang the beginning of the second act
with intelligence and feeling, but in the last act she was no longer up to the mark, and the
prayer in the third act was applauded as if it had been "The Last Rose of Summer." "Kindermann's"
voice is splendid, but there is no trace of "Wolfram" about him. Still less was "Fraulein X."
able to identify herself with Venus, whom she seemed to conceive as an ideal Munich barmaid.
"Lindemann", the Landgrave, you know, from Hamburg; his voice is as powerful as ever, and he
might, later on, serve you as "Fafner" or "Fasolt."

"APROPOS", your "X." is a perfect madman, and I should certainly not advise you to have anything
to do with a man like him. He asked me to attend a vocal practice of his pupils, when the poor
people had to shout nothing but four or five notes do, de, da! "X." has entirely surrendered
himself to his monomania of method, which to him has become a kind of dram-drinking. His circumstances
are in a very bad way, and I am told that he keeps himself alive chiefly by acting as clerk
in a tailor's business here. This, of course, is by no means to his discredit, and I think,
on the contrary, that he would do much better to give up his method, and take to tailoring
EX PROFESSO.

Our concert at St. Gallen has not been without an echo at Munich, and Lachner, with whom I
lived on friendly terms, proposed to me soon after my arrival to write for the parts of the
two Symphonic Poems to St. Gallen, so as to have them played during my stay at the subscription
concerts. I thanked him politely for the distinction intended for me, and reserved to myself
the permission of making use of it another time. At the theatre I heard CLEMENZA DI TITO (the
festival opera on the King's birthday), JESSONDA, THE PROPHET, and TANNHAUSER; at the subscription
concert the D minor symphony by "Lachner", his fourth, if I am not mistaken. LOHENGRIN is promised--that
is, they are talking about it; but amongst the present artists one would have to search for
"Ortrud" with a lantern. The Munich public is more or less neutral, more observing and listening
than sympathetic. The Court does not take the slightest interest in music, but "H.M." the King
spoke to me about TANNHAUSER as something that had PLEASED him. "Dingelstedt" complains of
the impossibility of giving importance to the drama, and gives two or three operas every week
for the sake of the receipts.

"Kaulbach" and I have become sincere friends. He is the right sort of fellow who will please
you too, for the very reason that many people call him intolerable. As lately as yesterday
I roared to him:

[Here, Liszt illustrates with a 2 1/2 bar musical score example with the words, "He - da! He
- da! He - do!"]

His designs for Shakespeare's "Tempest" (Ariel as Capellmeister in the air) are splendid. He
must paint your portrait for me later on.

Farewell, dearest Richard. I must take care that we meet soon.

Your

F. L.

230.

ZURICH, December 16th, 1856.

Several times, dearest friend, I made an attempt to write to you on serious, and to me important,
matters, but I had many things to settle in my own mind first. At last I feel sufficiently
mature, and will tell you in plain words what is in my heart. Your last visit, much disturbed
as was our intercourse, has left a decisive impression on me, which is this: your friendship
is the most important and most significant event of my life. If I can enjoy your conversation
frequently and quietly, and in my own way, I shall have all that I desire, and the rest will
be of subordinate value. You cannot have a similar feeling, because your life is just the opposite
of mine. You love diversion, and live in it, and your desire of self-concentration is therefore
temporary. I, on the contrary, live in the most absolute solitude, and therefore want occasional
diversion, which, however, in my meaning, is nothing but artistic stimulus. That stimulus the
musical world cannot give me; you alone can. All that I lack, especially as a musician, owing
to nature and insufficient education, my intercourse with you and no one else can alone give
me. Without this stimulus my limited musical capacity loses its fertility; I become discontented,
laborious, heavy, and producing becomes torture to me. I never had this feeling more vividly
than since our last meeting.

I have therefore but one desire, that of being able to visit you when I wish, and of living
with you periodically.

Well, seriously speaking, how does this matter stand? This letter will find you at Weimar.
What news have you to give me from the Grand Duke? I ask you urgently, let me have conclusive
and definite information soon. Much depends upon it. Let me explain about Weimar. I want to
come to the Altenburg, not to Weimar; and if it were possible I should be quite willing to
live there incognito. As this will be impossible, my existence might be noticed by the Court.
If the Court wants anything of me, I am prepared to appear there in person, either reading
my poems, or performing fragments of my music, such as the first act of the "Valkyrie," in
conjunction with you, and after our fashion. I do not want to go before the public at all.
Can this be arranged, and can the possibility of my visit to Weimar be accelerated?

Concerning my income and my recent hopes of a pension from the Weimar Court separately, or
in conjunction with others, you have given me some important hints, which I have not left unnoticed
or unconsidered. I should prefer to remain without subvention from that quarter which would
make any subsequent relation to the Weimar Court much easier to me, because it is my nature
to give rather than receive.

I do not deny it would be very desirable if you could soon make an arrangement with the Hartels
about the "Nibelungen," for which object, in accordance with your kind offer, I gave you discretionary
power. If you should succeed in this, it would certainly be advisable to interest the Weimar
Court in my work, to the extent that it might for some time grant me certain advantages on
account of the honorarium which I should receive for the publication.

If you could not ask this without loss of dignity, my only way would be to give up the "Nibelungen,"
and begin a simple work such as "Tristan" instead, which would have the advantage that I could
presumably dispose of it to the theatres at once, and receive royalties in return, although,
as you know, the music trade would give me nothing for it.

Let me express my sincere regret at giving you again care and anxiety. If you decline to meddle
with what I ask you, I shall think it quite natural on your part; but more depends upon your
decision, and especially upon your success, than you may perhaps imagine. I cannot drag on
like this.

Since my return from St. Gallen I have not seen a soul except Herwegh. Solitary walks, a little
work and reading, constitute my whole existence, in addition to which there were some unpleasant
attacks on the little rest I have, which did not allow me to breathe freely, and impaired my
health to an unbearable extent. The correspondence between Goethe and Schiller alone pleased
me much; it reminded me of our relation, and showed me the precious fruits which, in favourable
circumstances, might spring from our working together.

Your Munich news showed you to me in your ever serene artistic element, which I cordially enjoyed
with you. Your encounter with X. I regret. All I told you of the man was, that at one time
I was pleased with his voice and manner, but could form no judgment whatever of his method.
As you were no longer able to hear him sing, and as none of his pupils was sufficiently advanced
to let you hear some real thing, I can well understand that the poor man must have bored you
terribly with his theory; but I thank you for the trouble you have taken, and shall make use
of your hint. I thought you would have been able to let me know something about Dingelstedt,
and his conduct towards "Tannhauser," etc. Probably there was nothing pleasant to tell, and
you remained silent in consequence. A thousand thanks to the most excellent Princess for the
most astonishing cushion, and especially for the famous German letter. I sent her a short answer
to Munich, but it probably did not reach you.

To the good Child I shall write shortly; continue to love me all three of you. I need it. Best
remembrances from my wife. Farewell, and let me soon hear something comforting.

Yours longingly,

R. W.

231.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I must think of protecting myself against any conceivable unpleasantness in connection with
the impending warlike troubles in Switzerland.

Could not the Grand Duke get me from the Prince of Prussia, as chief of the army, a safe conduct
against any possible ill- treatment or imprisonment on the part of the Prussian authorities?
If this is impossible, I should have to fly to France in case of a Prussian occupation, which
would be unpleasant to me. I am sure you will be good enough to do all in your power to set
my mind at rest.

Of course the best thing would be if I could soon come to Weimar; but it appears that none
of the difficulties of my position will be spared me.

Shall I hear from you soon?

A thousand loving and longing greetings.

232.

January lst, 1857.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I am in bed once more, covered with the whole flora of my Zurich ills. Unfortunately I am no
longer near you, and must be content to celebrate the New Year with you by letter. You could
not meet with better luck than I wish you from the bottom of my heart. The hope of serving
you and, perhaps, of living together with you soon for some time, keeps me active and cheerful,
although the external aspects are not of the most favourable kind. At Carlsruhe, where I stayed
a day three weeks ago, the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess spoke with the warmest interest of
your works. ("Lohengrin" was being studied for production at Christmas.) Our Grand Duke here
did the same at my arrival, adding, however, his apprehension, that for the present nothing
could be done for you, and that I must have patience. How sick I am of this patience you may
easily imagine.

I wrote to the Prince of Prussia the day before yesterday explaining your business at some
length to him. I shall probably have a reply, which I will communicate to you in due course.
The warlike dangers in Switzerland do not appear to me of a very urgent kind, but I thought
this a good opportunity for calling the attention of the Prince to your miserable fate, which
is in such glaring contrast to your fame and artistic activity. The Prince is an honourable
character, and it may be expected that his intercession will be of service to you later on.
In the meantime, you ought, I think, to take no further step, nor waste a single word, because
this would lead only to useless humiliation for you.

As soon as the favourable moment arrives which I expect, I shall write to you. On the occasion
of the performance of "Lohengrin" for the wedding of the son of the Prince of Prussia, I advise
you again to write to the young Prince in the sense previously discussed by us. Probably your
affair will have entered a different stage by then.

"Tannhauser" was given here on Boxing-day with great success, and "Lohengrin" will follow soon.
For the latter we shall have to get Frau Stager from Prague, because amongst our local artists
there is none who could undertake Ortrud. Otherwise everything here is very much in the old
groove, and there is little to please me.

I long very much for my work. As soon as I am quite recovered I shall shut myself up in it,
and you will be always present to my mind, until we may at last live together in the body.

Your

F. L.

233.

January 6th, 1857.

Is not this a miserable thing, dearest Franz? I had been looking forward to your letter as
to a Christmas present, and now it brings me nothing but sad and comfortless news. That you
are once more confined to your bed is the crown of my sorrow.

Ah, heavens! Why do we not give in altogether?

It seems to me that you have not received my long letter, which I sent you at Weimar on the
supposition that you would go there straight from Munich, and the same has, I fear, been the
case with my letter to M., or else she would have surely sent me a few lines in reply. Concerning
my letter to YOU, it touches upon a point to which I must urgently return once more, because
I want your definite reply as soon as possible. Since you left me an important change has taken
place in my situation; I have absolutely given up the annual allowance which the R.'s made
me. In such circumstances, my only hope is the speedy success of the Hartel affair in connection
with the "Nibelungen," which had been broken off. In accordance with your kind offer, I gave
you unlimited power with regard to it. But now you are again tied to your bed, and cannot,
in any case for the present, pay the visit to Leipzig which would be necessary for the settlement
of such an affair. Consider, therefore, whether you are quite confident that the bargain will
be completed after all, provided that I declare myself willing, as I do herewith, to accept
any offer, knowing well that, however small the result may be, I could not get more in any
other way. If you are quite sure of a final success, the further question would be, how it
would be possible to raise some money on account at once. In any case, I ask you, and authorise
you, and request you, as soon as possible, to come to a distinct understanding with the Grand
Duke as to whether he would be inclined to confirm his favourable opinion of me by granting
me a pension, or, at least, a sufficient annual subsidy for the three years which it will take
me to complete my "Nibelungen." In the eventuality of a pension for life I should, of course,
accept the obligation of staying every year some time at Weimar, and give him my services according
to his wish, as soon as the return to Germany is opened to me. You no doubt remember our discussion
of this point, and of the possible concurrence of other princes well inclined towards me. But
what I particularly care for is SPEEDY AND ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY. At this moment, when I am most
in need of help, I want to know DEFINITELY how matters stand. This uncertainty places me in
a wavering position of hoping, expecting, wishing, and desiring, which involves my circumstances
more and more, apart from demoralising me. In short, I want to know WHERE to look for my friends.
Therefore, much-tried friend, look upon this as your last attempt at intercession between me
and a world, my position towards which I must know exactly. Patience of any kind is no longer
in question. My amnesty will be granted no sooner than at the moment when Saxony herself considers
that the time has come; those gentlemen like to appear independent.

Farewell for today. I shall very soon write to you about other matters, which, I hope, will
be pleasanter to both of us.

Your

R. W.

234

January 27th, 1857.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Wretched and helpless as I am, I must once more trouble you with something which this time
will not be altogether without interest to you. I enclose the letter of the person concerned,
so that you may be AU FAIT at once. (The enthusiasm displayed for me will, I hope, not excite
you.) B. A., according to the testimony of my wife, is a young, very handsome, slender fellow,
as, indeed, you may have guessed by the liking of X. for him.

Arrange, therefore, that he may make his DEBUT as "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" at Weimar under
your direction. In that manner I shall know that he will be under the surest guidance, and
that I shall have the best information as to the value of the young man. Perhaps you will be
kind enough to send for him previously.

I have not yet got back to the mood for writing to the kind Princess and the good Child. I
am annoyed at being always in a state of lamentation, and must therefore wait for a favourable
hour, for I do not like absolutely to deceive you. You yourself are used to my laments, and
expect nothing else. My health, too, is once more so bad, that for ten days, after I had finished
the sketch for the first act of "Siegfried," I was literally not able to write a single bar
without being driven away from my work by a most alarming headache. Every morning I sit down,
stare at the paper, and am glad enough when I get as far as reading Walter Scott. The fact
is, I have once more over-taxed myself, and how am I to recover my strength? With "Rhinegold"
I got on well enough, considering my circumstances, but the "Valkyrie" caused me much pain.
At present my nervous system resembles a pianoforte very much out of tune, and on that instrument
I am expected to produce "Siegfried." Well, I fancy the strings will break at last, and then
there will be an end. WE cannot alter it; this is a life fit for a dog.

I hope you are out of bed again. I wish I were a little more like you. Can you not let me have
the "Mountain Symphony?" Do not forget to send it to me.

Adieu, my good, dear Franz. You are my only comfort.

A thousand greetings to all at Altenburg.

235.

January 27th, 1857.

Your sympathy with me makes me hope that you are at present employed in giving the necessary
helpful turn to my affairs, and I therefore think it advisable to describe to you, in a few
words, my situation as it has lately shaped itself, so that you may know accurately upon what
I reckon, and may take steps accordingly.

W. has bought the little country house after all, and offers me a perpetual lease of it.

As I have given up the allowance of the R.'s, it is important for me to settle my income on
an INDEPENDENT basis. It would be foolish if I tried to arrange my future definitely at this
moment, which will probably bring my provisional position to a close. I am certain that my
amnesty will be granted in the course of 1858 at the latest, and I hope that this will suddenly
change my situation, to the extent, at least, that it will depend upon myself to find a solid
basis for my social existence. All I can rationally care for, considering that I have no chance
of success in any other direction, must be to secure for myself a free, unencumbered, and not
too limited income for the next few years, until my great work is completed and produced. Nothing
appears more adapted to the achievement of this purpose than the sale of my "Nibelungen" to
Hartel, whom I have asked to settle with me according to his own judgment. It is most important
to me that this should come to pass, and I hope, in any case, that if Hartel accepts the offer
I shall receive all that is required. I think they ought to pay me 1,000 thalers for each score,
in each case on delivery of the manuscript--that is, for the "Rhinegold," and perhaps for the
"Valkyrie" also, now at once. "Siegfried" will be in their hands by the end of this year. However,
as I remarked before, I must be satisfied even if they give me a little less. In any case,
it will be enough to keep me going for several years; and if I once know what I have, I shall
make arrangements accordingly, being resolved, in any case, to leave the management of my income
in future to my wife.

I need not tell you that if you come to terms with the Hartels other things ought to be LEFT
ALONE ALTOGETHER,  for I have made up my mind henceforth to preserve my independence as much
as possible.

You now have the complete synopsis of my situation; let me commend it to your well-tried sympathy.

I hear with great delight that you are well again. I have finished the composition of my first
act, and, as soon as I have recovered a little strength, hope to score it before leaving my
present house. Of resuming composition proper I cannot think here; I have suffered too much
of late by the musical and unmusical noisiness of my lodging.

Tell the dear Child that she will soon receive one of those letters from me which she likes,
but not about "Indian poetry" (droll idea!), but about that of which my heart is full, and
which I can call by no other name, than "Orpheus." But I must wait for a favourable mood. You
may tell the Child, however, that the "white rose" is now red and in full bloom, and that the
"slender stem of the lily" looks right robust, and inspires confidence. The Princess is angry
with me--I feel it--but I know that I shall conciliate her. A thousand greetings to her.

Farewell, dearest, dear Orpheus!

Your R. W.

236.

You could not possibly be forgotten, dearest friend, and the next few days will give me an
opportunity of looking after your affairs most carefully. On the 22nd I go to Leipzig to stay
there for a whole week. On Thursday, the 26th, "Les Preludes" and "Mazeppa" will be given at
the Gewandhaus for the benefit of the pension fund of the orchestra, and on the 28th I am to
conduct a performance of "Tannhauser" in Leipzig for the benefit of Herr Behr (the Landgrave),
the Mildes singing Elizabeth and Wolfram respectively. In the interval I hope I shall succeed
in getting a little "Rhine copper" for the "Rhinegold" from the Hartels, and shall write to
you at once.

Frau X. is announced to sing Ortrud on the 8th of March. She is to sing the part twice, and
then appear as Antonina in "Belisario." If she pleases her engagement is very probable.

I shall write very soon to Herr A., who sent me your letter by way of introduction, and I have
in the meantime asked Herr von Beaulieu to let him make his debut as Lohengrin or Tannhauser.

Today, 16th February (the anniversary of the first performance of "Tannhauser," in the year
1849), we shall have a gala performance of Gluck's "Armida," with Frau Koster of Berlin. A
new opera, never yet performed, by a Belgian composer, M. Lassen, "Landgraf Ludwig's Brautfahrt,"
will be put in rehearsal soon. As far as I am concerned, while

[Musical Notation] He - da! He - do!

is hammering in my head I can enjoy nothing else, either old or new, and dream only of the
"Ring of the Nibelung," which God's grace may soon vouchsafe to me.

Your F. L.

WEYMAR, February 16th, 1857.

The three last numbers of my Symphonic Poems will appear by the end of this month, and I shall
send them to you at once. A similar thing, "Die Hunnenschlacht," I completed last week. The
Princess of Prussia has commanded "Tannhauser" for next Sunday.

237.

Please forward the enclosed proof to Brendel, so that the good man may get a notion of his
bad editorship.

(TO BRENDEL.) ZURICH, April 15TH, 1857. DEAR FRIEND,

The somewhat tardy publication of my letter about Liszt I recently read in your paper, and
saw, to my regret, that it was very incorrect, and even showed several omissions, disfiguring
the sense, owing to the inattention of the printer. At first I thought of forwarding you a
list of errata, but considered, on reflection, that such corrections are never read in context
with the article, and therefore made up my mind to send a revised version to Zellner at Vienna,
asking him to print it at once in his paper. My intention is by no means to punish you for
the neglect shown to me, but to induce those interested in the matter to read the corrected
letter once again. In case you intentionally made such changes as "PURER form of art" into
"NEWER," etc., you have certainly misunderstood me very much, and in that case you must look
upon my correction as a demonstration against yourself, although only in private. But I presume
that most of the mistakes were caused by the fact that instead of my manuscript you received
a copy, which you should not have accepted.

Shall I soon see you? I live in the greatest retirement, and do as much work as my health will
let me.

Best remembrances from

Your

RICHARD WAGNER.

238.

You have given me a delightful Easter Sunday, dearest, most unique of friends, by your letter.
By the loving "Azymen" which you offer me with so much kindness and friendship, you have given
me strength, health, and total oblivion of all other leaven. Receive my most cordial thanks,
and let it be a joy to you to have given me so much and such heartfelt joy. That joy shall
not be disturbed by a few misprints and omissions. The essential thing is that you love me,
and consider my honest efforts as a musician worthy of your sympathy. This you have said in
a manner in which no one else could say it. I confess candidly that when I brought my things
to you at Zurich, I did not know how you would receive and like them. I have had to hear and
read so much about them, that I have really no opinion on the subject, and continue to work
only from persistent inner conviction, and without any claim to recognition or approval. Several
of my intimate friends- -for example, Joachim, and formerly Schumann and others--have shown
themselves strange, doubtful, and unfavourable towards my musical creations. I owe them no
grudge on that account, and cannot retaliate, because I continue to take a sincere and comprehensive
interest in their works.

Imagine then, dearest Richard, the unspeakable joy which the hours at Zurich and St. Gallen
gave me when your beaming glance penetrated my soul and lovingly encompassed it, bringing life
and peace.

In a few days I shall write to you at greater length about the Hartel affair, which unfortunately
remains in a very unsatisfactory stage. At Altenburg things are looking very sad. The Child
has been somewhat seriously ill for the last three weeks, and cannot leave her bed. The Princess
also had to doctor herself, and is not yet allowed to leave her room; and I, after having been
in bed for quite six weeks, am only just able to hobble about the theatre and the castle. In
spite of this, I have better and best hopes for my dear ones and for you, who live in a high
place of my heart, and to whom I feel and confess that I wholly belong.

F. LISTZ.

April 19th, 1857.

At the beginning of next season Dingelstedt will take the place of Herr von Beaulieu as our
theatrical manager. He has been here for the last fortnight, and his position, although not
yet officially announced, has been secured by the necessary signatures.

By your recommendation Frau X. will sing Ortrud next Sunday. Herr A., whom you introduced to
me, has also been staying at Weymar for the last month, but I doubt whether I shall be able
to serve him in any particular way. His vocal talent is said to be very small as yet. Otherwise
he impresses me favourably, and I shall hear him before long.

Once more, my best, best thanks for today, when I did not want to write to you about anything else.

239.

Your "Lohengrin" has once more pervaded my whole soul, and in spite of my absurd indisposition,
which compelled me to go to bed immediately after the performance, I am brimful of the sublime
and tender charm of the incomparable work. I wish I could sing in F and E major "A wonder!"
just as you wrote it.

The performance was the best which we have had so far, and the artists were most enthusiastic.
Next Saturday there will be a repetition, for which I shall get up again. With Frau Milde you
would be pleased; her singing and acting are full of magnetism. Caspari also gave some passages
beautifully, and Milde is always noble and artistically efficient, although he does not quite
possess the great volume of voice required for Telramund. Frau X. did not come up to the mark,
and Frau Knopp, our former Ortrud, was much more equal to the part. Frau X. had studied it
conscientiously, but neither her voice nor her enunciation are particularly adapted to the
style. The middle register decidedly lacks strength and fulness, and the declamation moves
in prosaic theatrical grooves, without individual and deeper pathos. This is between ourselves,
for I do not want to injure a good woman and conscientious artist; but I cannot advise her
engagement at the theatre here, and prefer to keep the place open which she would have to fill.
I believe I told you already that Dingelstedt will assume his office of general intendant at
Weymar on October 1st. Perhaps we shall find, in the course of next season, an Ortrud whom
I should like a little younger than Frau X.

From Hanover I have been asked to get the original score of the "Flying Dutchman" for Capellmeister
Fischer there, who is recommended to me on good authority as a sincere and energetic admirer
of your works. Fischer has the scores of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" in HIS library, and is
very desirous not to be without the "Flying Dutchman" any longer. I have been informed by my
correspondent that he is in the habit of conducting from HIS OWN scores, and has taken much
trouble to get that of the "Flying Dutchman," but so far without success. He would of course
prefer the original to a copy, which he could take at any time. Perhaps you will be able to
find an original copy for him, for which he would have to send you the price agreed upon. Although
I do not like to meddle with similar matters, I thought that one might show special attention
to Fischer, who has prepared your three operas at Hanover with every care. Write to me soon
what I am to tell him. I do not know him personally.

After many verbal and written discussions of the "Nibelungen" question with Hartel (in which
I throughout stuck to the chief point of Hartel's FIRST OFFER, without allowing him to swerve
from it on the vague chance of some other and lower proposal), the matter has about reached
this point, that I may assume that he will not give a negative answer to a letter from you,
in which, making reference to his conversation with me, you should simply and a little politely
ask him to carry out his former proposal. On this first proposal, I think, the resumption of
the transaction must necessarily be based, and I must tell you candidly that Hartel did not
appear very ready to act upon it now, because the turn given by you to the matter in your second
letter has almost offended him.

Consider, therefore, whether you will write him to this effect, which I should advise you to
do, for it cannot easily be anticipated that a better proposal will be made to you from another
quarter, and yet it appears important to me that your work should be published.

Concerning the performance itself, I am still in hopes that the Grand Duke will supply the
means to me, or rather to you, for in that case I should only act as your assistant.

Go on with your gigantic work bravely and cheerfully. The rest will be arranged, and I shall
be in it.

F. L.

WEYMAR, April 28th, 1857.

240.

ZURICH, May 8th. 1857.

At last I sit down to write to you, dearest Franz. I have had a bad time, which now, it is
true, appears to give place to a very pleasant state of things.

Ten days ago we took possession of the little country house next to W.'s villa, which I owe
to the great sympathy of that friendly family. At first I had to go through various troubles,
for the furnishing of the little house, which has turned out very neat, and, according to my
taste, took much time, and we had to move out before there was any possibility of moving in.
In addition to this my wife was taken ill, and I had to keep her from all exertion, so that
the whole trouble of moving fell upon me alone. For ten days we lived at the hotel, and at
last we moved in here in very cold and terrible weather. Only the thought that the change would
be definite was able to keep me in a good temper. At last we have got through it all; everything
is permanently housed and arranged according to wish and want; everything is in the place where
it is to remain. My study has been arranged with the pedantry and elegant comfort known to
you. My writing-table stands at the large window, with a splendid view of the lake and the
Alps; rest and quiet surround me. A pretty and well-stocked garden offers little walks and
resting-places to me, and will enable my wife to occupy herself pleasantly, and to keep herself
free from troubling thoughts about me; in particular a large kitchen garden claims her tenderest
care. You will see that a very pretty place for my retirement has been gained, and if I consider
how long I have been wishing for this, and how difficult it was even to bring it into view,
I feel compelled to look upon the excellent W. as one of my greatest benefactors. At the beginning
of July the W.'s hope to move into their villa, and their neighbourhood promises many friendly
and pleasant things to me. Well, so much has been achieved.

Very soon I hope to resume my long-interrupted work, and I shall certainly not leave my charming
refuge even for the shortest trip before Siegfried has settled everything with Brynhild. So
far I have only finished the first act, but then it is quite ready, and has turned out stronger
and more beautiful than anything. I am astonished myself at having achieved this, for at our
last meeting I again appeared to myself a terribly blundering musician. Gradually, however,
I gained self-confidence. With a local prima-donna, whom you heard in "La Juive", I studied
the great final scene of the "Valkyrie." Kirchner accompanied; I hit the notes famously, and
this scene, which gave you so much trouble, realised all my expectations. We performed it three
times at my house, and now I am quite satisfied. The fact is, that everything in this scene
is so subtle, so deep, so subdued, that the most intellectual, the most tender, the most perfect
execution in every direction is necessary to make it understood; if this, however, is achieved,
the impression is beyond a doubt. But of course a thing of this kind is always on the verge
of being quite misunderstood, unless all concerned approach it in the most perfect, most elevated,
most intelligent mood; merely to play it through as we tried, in a hurried way, is impossible.
I, at least, lose on such occasions instinctively all power and intelligence; I become perfectly
stupid. But now I am quite satisfied, and if you hear the melting and hammering songs of "Siegfried"
you will have a new experience of me. The abominable part of it is that I cannot have a thing
of this kind played for my own benefit. Even to our next meeting I attach no real hope; I always
feel as if we were in a hurry, and that is most detrimental to me. I can be what I am only
in a state of perfect concentration; all disturbance is my death.

I am deeply touched to hear that my letter has given you so much pleasure; I am sure you have
taken the good will for the deed, for what I wrote cannot mean MUCH to the many, just because
it was so difficult to write MUCH that might have been more useful and important to the multitude.
A description of your single poems I had to refrain from altogether, for the reason which I
candidly state in the letter itself. I cannot and will not attempt such insufficient things
again. I had, therefore, to confine myself to showing to INTELLIGENT persons the road which
I had discovered for myself. Those who cannot follow in this road and afterwards help themselves
further along, I cannot help along either; that is my sincere opinion. Concerning the misprints,
I shall send you one of these days a corrected copy, just for the sake of the joke. You will
then understand that I might well be annoyed, but the fault seems to lie less with Brendel
than with the copyist of my manuscript, who has performed his task in a very perfunctory manner.
I do not speak of the intentional omissions, which were your doing, and to which you were fully
entitled, but of simple abominations. However, that has been set right now, and will not happen
again.

Many thanks also for LOHENGRIN. It must remain a shadow to me, I really have forgotten it;
I do not know it. You do all this amongst yourselves, and seem scarcely to think that I too
might wish to be present. But I honour the mysterious silence which is so conscientiously preserved
on the awkward question of my return by my high and highest patrons. Joking apart, the Emperor
of Brazil has invited me to come to him at Rio Janeiro, where I am to have plenty of everything.
Therefore if not at Weymar, then at Rio.

Why do I hear so much about Frau X.? I did not specially recommend her for Ortrud. In my introduction
I only spoke of an experienced singer of second parts, who, for want of a better, and, if she
were taken in hand properly, might perhaps do for Ortrud. In saying this I specially had regard
to her agreeable, although perhaps slightly enfeebled, voice, and her well-known industry.
But that this unfortunate person should have been engaged specially for the part of Ortrud,
which she had never studied, and that she should have been considered as my chosen representative
of that part, was a little hard on her and on me. Please do not turn me into the "father" of
this DEBUTANTE, whose interest I should have considered better if I had arranged her first
appearance in some piece by Verdi or Donizetti, or indeed anything but LOHENGRIN. But enough
of such stuff, although I am grieved to see Herr A., the tenor of the future (if well prepared),
dwindle into thin air also. May heaven grant that Caspari will keep on, or that a decent tenor
may come to you from some other place.

APROPOS, I must ask you to inform the Royal Capellmeister Fischer in Hanover, that he must
make a copy of the DUTCHMAN score do for the present. The few autographed copies which were
made at the time, not by myself, but by a copyist, have been reduced to so few that I cannot
possibly spare another. The first twenty-five copies I scattered about recklessly, before any
cock crowed for this opera, and the very few remaining ones are naturally of value to me. Excuse
me, therefore, and refer him to the time when the sale of my works will have become so lucrative
that the full scores can be engraved. I am, however, very grateful to him for his sympathy.
Hanover has become a perfect repository of my scores.

Many thanks also for your hints regarding the Hartel affair. Candidly speaking, the settlement
of it is so important to me, that I immediately followed your advice, and wrote to the Hartels
in such a manner that they will probably accept my offer, provided that they have been properly
informed of the object by you. This, of course, I assume, and thank you cordially for it. Well,
we shall see.

I am being continually and painfully interrupted in these sufficiently frivolous lines by the
invasions of workmen, especially of a Saxon locksmith. So I had better come to a close, although
to my sorrow, for I regret our ill-sustained correspondence, in which at bottom we never express
ourselves thoroughly, but, barring a few violent lucubrations, touch each other in a very superficial
manner. I do not say anything today on the important point of your failing health. I wrote
very seriously about it to the Princess some time ago, and am longing for a conclusive answer.
I now hear through you that our magnanimous friend has herself been ill for a long time, and
my fears are thus sadly confirmed. So I must ask you, after all, to let me know at least what
steps you are going to take for the thorough recovery of your health. Have you really settled
to persevere in the musical festival of Aix-la-Chapelle, or have you found a doctor with sufficient
courage to prohibit your incessant efforts and sacrifices absolutely, and to withdraw you for
a time from the world which spoils you more and more, in order to secure your perfect recovery?
Really, dearest Franz, you will cause me the deepest anxiety unless you satisfy me on this
point, and every rational person will see that this can be done only by a long and careful
cure, together with absolute rest and abstention from every effort and excitement. To speak
plainly, you dear people cannot long go on as you do now. Others would be ruined very soon
by this kind of thing, which, at last, must become detrimental to you also. Listen, my Franz,
come to me. No one shall know of your presence; we will live quite by ourselves, and you must
submit to our taking the necessary care of your "cure." You will think this very stupid, and
will perhaps scarcely believe that it is absolute despair which inspires this advice; but SOMETHING
must be done, and if things appear black to me, the reality of the news which you send me surely
does not justify a rosier view. For Heaven's sake, calm my fear, and believe me that no triumphs,
not even those gained by yourself for yourself, will give me the least pleasure as long as
I know how dearly you pay for them. Well, I must wait for your reply, but please let it not
be a superficial, futile one.

Heaven only knows what I have written here; it must be nice stuff.

Finally, I want to thank you for the last three scores received by me; they came to me like
old friends. I shall take them in hand thoroughly; they are to consecrate me a musician once
more, and fit me for the beginning of my second act, which I shall precede by my study of them.

As I said before, I do not thank you for the sacrifice you have made for me by your last beautiful
performance of LOHENGRIN. If you had written to me instead, "I have put LOHENGRIN, you, myself,
and everything else on the shelf, in order to get thoroughly well again," I should have thanked
you with heartfelt tears. Let me soon know something of the kind, or else I shall never write
to you again, and burn YOUNG SIEGFRIED with all his songs of the smithy.

Adieu, you good, wicked Franz. Greet your dear women from the bottom of my soul; they are to
love me, and to get well, the dear, wicked women.

Adieu, my good dear Franz.

R. W.

241.

May 19th, 1857.

DEAREST FRIEND,

I received today the enclosed letter from the Hartels. In it they refer to a letter addressed
to you, and in case this latter contains any indications as to how the business might be settled,
I should like you to send it to me. Otherwise it would be of no use to me.

It is a sad thing that, in order to have a CERTAIN income for the next few years, I am compelled
to offer my work for sale in this manner, and in different circumstances I should calmly bide
my time in the firm hope that people would come to me. As it is, I am compelled to try everything,
so as to tempt the Hartels to this purchase. Above all, I perceive that your time and occupations
will not allow you to acquaint those gentlemen thoroughly with my music. I have, therefore,
invited them to come here this summer, and to meet Klindworth, who has announced his visit
to me. With his aid I shall give them a piece of my "Nibelungen," which will give them some
notion of it.

Be good enough, therefore, to return to me for some time the pianoforte score of "Rhinegold,"
which we shall want for that purpose.

Delight me soon with satisfactory news of you; you know what I mean by this.

Farewell, and be greeted a thousand times.

Your

R. W.

(I want Hartels' letter back again.)

242.

[Here, Wagner illustrates with a 4-bar musical score example.] [Musical score example continued]
You wicked friend! Let me know, at least, by some sign, how you are, and whether you forgive
me for my anxiety about you.

May 3Oth, early in the morning, after a good night.

R. W.

243.

WEYMAR, June 9th, 1857.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I returned from Aix-la-Chapelle yesterday, and (barring a little pain in both my feet, which
requires some care) I feel so well that I can cheerfully go to my work and various occupations.
You must forgive me for not having satisfied your friendly anxiety about my health before this;
the fact is, I must endure what is destined to me for your sake and my sake. God be thanked,
I do not lack either strength or a certain tough equanimity.

H. wrote to you about the Aix Musical Festival, which, upon the whole, was satisfactory, both
in arrangement and execution, although OUR FRIEND Hiller may demonstrate in the COLOGNE GAZETTE
that I have no talent either as a conductor or a composer. The TANNHAUSER overture went splendidly,
and your autogragh "ich lieg und besitze,--lasst mich schlafen" has given me a happy moment.

Owing to the severe illness of the Princess, my frame of mind has been sad and anxious for
more than nine weeks. At my return I found her on the way to recovery, but several months may
still pass before she is quite well again. At present she can scarcely sit up for half an hour
every day.

Forgive me for not having written to you sooner, but I had nothing but sad news to tell you,
and the poor Princess caused me so much anxiety that I scarcely knew how to bear it.

At last you have found a comfortable habitation which has been prepared for you by tender friendship,
and must be all the more pleasant and beneficial to you on that account. I cordially participate
in this essential improvement of your life at Zurich, and am glad that you can give yourself
up to your genius, and complete the gigantic mental mountain range of your NIBELUNGEN, without
disturbance from neighbouring smiths and pianists. Have the W.'s moved into their villa yet?
Convey my humble compliments to the amiable lady, and greet W. most cordially. I hope I shall
be able to visit you in the autumn, after the Jubilee of Grand Duke Carl August. It will be
celebrated here on September 3rd, 4th, and 5th, on which occasion I shall perform my FAUST
symphony and a new symphonic poem THE IDEALS.

In reference to the Hartel affair I enclose his two letters of March 4th and 5th. At the end
of February I had a long conversation about the matter at Leipzig with Dr. Hartel, and tried
to persuade him to renew his first proposal to you, because that seemed to me the most advantageous
thing for you. After a few days' consideration he sent me the letter, dated March 4th, and
I replied in the sense of my conversation with him. I tried to show him as clearly as possible
that this matter ought to be looked upon as a grand ENTERPRISE rather than as a common COMMERCIAL
SPECULATION, and that the firm of Breitkopf and Hartel, which already possessed LOHENGRIN and
the three operatic poems, would, in my opinion, be the most eligible for that purpose. I have
not kept a copy of my letter, but can assure you that you need not disavow a single word of
it. Hartal's letter of March 16th is identical with that addressed to you. As matters stand,
I am very doubtful whether the Hartels will make you a new offer of honorarium unless, of course,
the immediate impression of your rendering of the work on them should be so powerful as to
overcome their commercial timidity. On your part I should not think it advisable to make them
a new offer, and you have, no doubt, hit upon the best idea in inviting them to Zurich, so
that you may be able to give them at least some previous idea of your work. This, I think,
will be your most favourable chance in the circumstances. The intention of the Hartels for
the present is, of course, to offer you nothing but an eventual honorarium AFTER the publication
of the work, and after the expenses of that publication have been covered. You seem to think
that I have not had sufficient time and opportunity for determining the Hartels to a different
and better proposal, BUT THERE YOU ARE VERY MUCH MISTAKEN; and you may be quite certain that
I should willingly have remained at Leipzig for a month or longer, and should have played and
sung the RHINEGOLD to the Hartels several times if I had had the slightest hope that our purpose
would in that manner be advanced by a hair's breadth. What I laid particular stress on with
Hartel, apart from the intrinsic importance of the whole quality and essence of your work,
was the possibility and the all but absolute certainty of its performance, which of course
is denied on all sides.

At last I told him: "This I will guarantee, by word and deed, that between the completion of
the "NIBELUNGEN", which may be expected by the end of the next year, and its performance, scarcely
a year will elapse, and that the friends of Wagner, and I foremost amongst them, will do all
that is possible to bring that performance about. In this firm conviction I think it desirable
that the work should appear in print, so that the necessary standpoint for its judgment may
be supplied," etc., etc., etc.

I am sorry to bore you with all this stuff, and only ask you NOT TO GIVE WAY TO IRRITATION,
and not to say or to write a single rash word, because the matter is of decided importance,
and a trustworthy publisher is not easily found. The publication of the "NIBELUNGEN" in full
score and pianoforte arrangement will require an outlay of at least ten thousand thalers, for
which few firms will be prepared. For the present I should advise you to keep quite quiet,
and to invite the Hartels simply, and if need be repeatedly, to visit you, leaving all further
discussion as to the terms of publication till you have given them more accurate insight into
the matter; that is, till your meeting at Zurich.

Your

FRANZ.

What is your present address?

Richard Pohl has asked me to inquire of you whether you will be at Zurich in July, and whether
he may pay you a visit there?

244.

ZURICH, May 8th, 1857.

At last, dearest Franz, I am able to give you an answer by letter.

First of all, receive my heartiest congratulations on the good state of your health. Your letter
has joyfully surprised me, and, to my greatest delight, has made me feel ashamed of my intrusive
anxiety about you. Your organisation is a perfect riddle to me, and I hope that you will always
solve that riddle in as satisfactory a manner as this time, when I looked on with real anxiety.
Heaven grant that your profession of good health may not be that of a Spartan!

All the more sorry do I feel that you have not been able to dispel my anxiety as to the Princess
also. At our last meeting at Zurich my impression of your (to me) strange and very exciting
mode of life frightened me so much that I am really less astonished at the Princess being on
a sick bed than at your being up again. My very eager anxiety about both of you is perhaps
in bad taste; for you are accustomed to taking care of yourselves, and acknowledge probably
no special right on my part to trouble about you. Heaven grant that patience and good advice
may restore our magnanimous friend as soon as possible; when she is once well again I shall
be quite willing to plead guilty to the charge of impertinence. You say nothing of the health
of her daughter, who was also severely indisposed. May your good star guide you; in one important
point I shall always remain a stranger to you all.

I shall have no further trouble with the Hartels, as I have determined finally to give up my
headstrong design of completing the "Nibelungen." I have led my young Siegfried to a beautiful
forest solitude, and there have left him under a linden tree, and taken leave of him with heartfelt
tears. He will be better off there than elsewhere. If I were ever to resume the work some one
would have to make it very easy for me, or else I should have to be in a position to present
it to the world as a GIFT, in the full sense of the word. These long explanations with the
Hartels- -my first contact with that world which would have to make the realisation of my enterprise
possible--were quite enough to bring me to my senses, and to make me recognize the chimeric
nature of this undertaking. You were the only person of importance, besides myself, who believed
in its possibility, but probably for the reason that you also had not sufficiently realised
its difficulties. But the Hartels, who are to advance solid coin, have looked into the matter
more closely, and are, no doubt, quite right in believing the performance of the work impossible,
as the author did not even see his way to its completion without their help.

As regards myself, there was a time when I conceived, commenced, and half finished the work
without the expectation of its being performed during my lifetime. Even last winter your confident
tone, as you took leave of me, and your hope of releasing me soon from my mute and soundless
exile, gave me the courage (which by that time had become a difficult matter) to continue.
Such encouragement was indeed required, for, after having been without any stimulus, such as
a good performance of one of my works might have given me, my position was, at last, becoming
unbearable. Our trials at the piano further contributed towards my becoming thoroughly conscious
of the misery of such musical makeshifts; indeed, I felt that a good many things would be explained
to myself only by a good performance. Since then my last hope has vanished again, and a terrible
bitterness has come over me, so that I can no longer have any faith in mere chance. You, my
rarest friend, do everything in your power to rouse me again in one way or other, and to sustain
my freshness and love of work, but I know that all you say is only for this particular purpose.
So I have at last decided to help myself. I have determined to finish at once "Tristan and
Isolde" on a moderate scale, which will make its performance easier, and to produce it next
year at Strassburg with Niemann and Madame Meyer. There is a beautiful theatre there, and the
orchestra and the other not very important characters I hope to get from a neighbouring German
Court- theatre. In that manner I must try (D.V.) to produce something myself and in my own
way which will once more restore freshness and artistic conscientiousness to me. Apart from
this, such an undertaking offers me the only possible chance of sustaining my position. It
was only by a somewhat frivolous proceeding--the sale of "Tannhauser" to the Josephstadt Theatre
at Vienna--that I succeeded in preserving my equilibrium, and this will soon again be threatened,
or, at least, is so absolutely insecure, that I had to think of something which would free
me from care. For so much I may assume that a thoroughly practicable work, such as "Tristan"
is to be, will quickly bring me a good income, and keep me afloat for a time. In addition to
this, I have a curious idea. I am thinking of having a good Italian translation made of this
work in order to produce it as an Italian opera at the theatre of Rio Janeiro, which will probably
give my "Tannhauser" first. I mean to dedicate it to the Emperor of Brazil, who will soon receive
copies of my last three operas, and all this will, I trust, realise enough to keep me out of
harm's way for a time. Whether, after that, my "Nibelungen" will appeal to me again I cannot
foresee; it depends upon moods over which I have no control. For once I have used violence
against myself. Just as I was in the most favourable mood I have torn Siegfried from my heart,
and placed him under lock and key as one buried alive. There I shall keep him, and no one shall
see anything of him, as I had to shut him out from myself. Well, perhaps this sleep will do
him good; as to his awaking I decide nothing. I had to fight a hard and painful battle before
I got to this point. Well, it is settled so far.

Your three last Symphonic Poems have once more filled me with painful joy. While reading them
I was forced again to think of my miserable condition, which makes such things mute to me,
to me who knows so little how to help himself. God knows the greatest delight, such as your
"Mountain Symphony," is thus turned to sorrow for me. But I have made these complaints a thousand
times, and there is no help for it.

Some unfortunate person has again sent me a whole heap of ridiculous nonsense about my "Nibelungen,"
and probably expects an approving answer in return. With such puppets have I to deal when I
look for human beings. These are the kind of people who continually trouble themselves about
me with astounding faithfulness and constancy. Good Lord! it is very well for you to talk.

I shall receive R. Pohl with all the respect due to the Weimar art historiographer. I shall
stay in my "refuge," and shall be pleased to see him. To speak at last of something hopeful,
let me express my greatest joy at your giving me hope of a visit from you in September. Let
me pray you earnestly not to treat this matter lightly, but to turn my hope into confidence.
Try to imagine that you have undertaken to conduct a musical festival here, and then I am sure
your passionate conscientiousness will not allow you to stay away. Really, dearest Franz, such
a meeting is a necessity to me this time. I shall enjoy it like a true gourmet. Let me soon
hear something definite, and greet Altenburg and all its precious contents from the bottom
of my heart. REMAIN well, for you say that you are well, and once more, love me.

Your

R. W.

As regards my address, the very blind know my footsteps at Zurich. About "Tristan" ABSOLUTE
SILENCE.

245.

ZURICH, July 9th, 1857.

My DEAR FRANZ,

I forgot to ask you something. At Zurich I told you that that poor devil Rockel was longing
to see one of my new scores. Recently he has again reminded me of it, therefore I repeat my
request to you to lend him your score of "Rhinegold" for six or eight weeks. His wife, who
lives at Weimar, will, no doubt, gladly undertake to send him the score. He is a clever fellow,
and I should like to count him amongst those who occupy themselves with my recent works. It
will cheer him up considerably, and I see from his last letter that he is gradually becoming
low-spirited. You would, no doubt, increase his delight if you were to add copies of all, or
some of your symphonic poems. I have drawn his attention to them, and he is very curious to
know something of them. You might let him have them just as a loan. Do not be angry with me
for troubling you with this.

How are you, and have you any comforting news of the Princess for me?

The Grand Duke of Baden recently wrote me a surprisingly amiable and friendly letter, which
is of real value to me, as the first sign of a breach in the timid or courtly etiquette hitherto
observed towards me. The occasion was a little attention which I showed to the young Grand
Duchess, and for which he thanks me in a moved and moving manner in her name and his own.

Eduard Dervient stayed with me for three days last week, and inaugurated my little guest-chamber.
To him I also spoke of my "Tristan" scheme; he highly approved of it, but was against Strassburg,
and undertook, although generally a careful and timid man, to arrange about its first performance
at Carlsruhe under my direction. The Grand Duke also seems to have got wind of something of
the kind, probably through Devrient, for in one passage of his letter he pointedly alludes
to his confident hope of seeing me soon at Carlsruhe.

Well, as God wills. This much I see, that I must, once more, perform a little miracle to make
people believe in me.

About my work I am, as you may imagine, in a state of great and continual excitement.

Let it be settled that I have you in September; that is the chief thing.

A thousand cordial greetings to your dear home.

Ever thine,

RICHARD WAGNER.

246.

DEAREST RICHARD,

At your recommendation I am reading the Correspondence between Schiller and Goethe. Your last
letter found me at this passage: "It is one of the greatest happinesses of my existence that
I live to see the completion of these works, that they fall into the period of my activity,
and that I am enabled to drink at this pure fountain. The beautiful relation existing between
us constitutes a kind of religious duty on my part to make your cause my own, to develop every
reality in my being to the purest mirror of the spirit which lives in this body, and to deserve
by that means the name of your friend in a higher sense of the word" (p. 163, vol. i.).

I must weep when I think of the interruption of your "Nibelungen." Cannot the great "Ring"
free you of all the little chains which surround you? You have certainly many reasons for being
bitter, and if I generally observe silence on the point I feel it none the less sadly. In many
quarters I am, for the present, unable to achieve anything more, but it would be foolish to
abandon all hope. A more favourable hour will come, and must be waited for, and in the meantime
I can only ask you not to be unjust to your friend, and to practise the virtue of the mule,
as Byron calls patience. "Tristan" appears to me a very happy idea. You will, no doubt, create
a splendid work, and then go back refreshed to your "Nibelungen." We shall all come to Strassburg
and form a garde d'honneur for you. I hope to see you at the beginning of this autumn, although
I am not yet able to settle on a definite plan. The Princess is still confined to her bed,
and her recovery is, as yet, in a bad way.

I, for my part, shall be compelled after all, and in spite of obstinate resistance, to use
the baths of Aix-la-Chapelle, which is very unpleasant to me. Next week I shall go to Berlin
for a few days, and from there I proceed straight to Aix, where I intend to go through the
cure from July 22nd till August 10th. On August 14th I shall be back in order to receive the
commands of the Grand Duke with regard to the festivities in September. The excavations which
have been made for the monument of Schiller and Goethe will, it is feared, cause a dangerous
settlement of the soil near the theatre, and the two "fellows" may possibly not be able to
find a secure position in Weymar. A telegram has been sent to Rietschel in order to decide
in what manner the danger can be prevented. Perhaps they will order me to make no more "Music
of the Future," so as not to ruin the city from the bottom. In that case I should have to fly
to Zurich in order to produce the "Faust" symphony and my last symphonic poem, Schiller's "Ideals,"
at your villa. The former has been increased by a final chorus of male voices singing the last
eight lines of the second part, the Eternal Feminine.

It is still very doubtful whether the Princess will be fit for travelling this year, and the
Child will, in any case, not leave her mother. If both are able this autumn to perform the
Swiss journey, which they missed last year, I shall of course stay with them at the Hotel Baur.
Your wife, in that case, must not refuse me the boon of getting me excellent coffee and a practicable
coffee machine, for the abominable beverage which is served at the hotel as coffee is as disgusting
to me as a piece de salon by Kucken, etc., and embitters my morning hours.

By what manner of means have you got at H.M. the Emperor of Brazil? You must tell me this.
He ought by rights to send you the Rose Order set in brilliants, although you do not care about
flowers or orders.

Rosa Milde is going to give a few performances at Dresden, and has asked for Elizabeth as her
first part. If the voice of Frau Meyer does not improve I advise you to choose Frau Milde as
Isolde. I believe you will be satisfied with her, although our FRIEND Hiller praised her so much.

Your faithful

F. L.

WEYMAR, July 10th, 1857.

247.

You have not come, after all, dearest Franz; without a word of explanation, simply remaining
silent, you have not come. In two letters you had given me hope of your visit, and I wrote
to M. that I had thought of a way of receiving you under my roof. Has my message been given
to you? Perhaps not. M. was kind enough to write to me some time ago, but my last invitation
was not mentioned with a single word. You wrote to me a few lines, but not a word as to whether
you were coming or not. My dearest Franz, whatever there may have been in my conduct to make
you angry with me, you must, I pray you, forgive me for the sake of our friendship, while I,
on my part, am quite willing to forgive the person who may have set you against me.

B. will bring you a copy of the poem of "Tistan," which I wrote during his absence. While I
was at work, and had a visitor, I found it impossible to make a copy and send it to M. Kindly
excuse this.

Farewell, dearest Franz, and let me hear soon that you still think of me in a friendly way.
The successful performance of your "Faust" has pleased me immensely. I wish I could have heard it.

Farewell.

Your R. W.

248.

HOTEL DE SAXE, No. 17, November 3rd, 1857.

DEAREST RICHARD,

How could I think of you otherwise than with constant love and sincerest devotion in this city,
in this room where we first came near to each other, when your genius shone before me? "Rienzi"
resounds to me from every wall, and when I enter the theatre I cannot help bowing to you before
every one, as you stand at your desk. With Tichatschek, Fischer, Heine, and others of your
friends in the orchestra here I talk of you every day. These gentlemen appear well inclined
towards me, and take a warm interest in the rehearsals of the "Prometheus" and "Dante" symphonies,
which are to be given next Saturday at a concert for the benefit of the Pension Fund of the
chorus of the Court theatre. The Princess and her daughter will arrive this evening. The Child
is mad about your "Tristan," but, by all the gods, how can you turn it into an opera for ITALIAN
SINGERS, as, according to B., you intend to do? Well, the incredible and impossible are your
elements, and perhaps you will manage to do even this. The subject is splendid, and your conception
wonderful. I have some slight hesitation as to the part of Brangane, which appears to me spun
out a little, because I cannot bear confidantes at all in a drama. Pardon this absurd remark,
and take no further notice of it. When the work is finished my objection will, no doubt, cease.

For February 16th, the birthday of the Grand Duchess, I have proposed "Rienzi," and I hope
Tichatschek will sing in our first two performances. The third act will necessarily have to
be shortened very much. Fischer and some others even thought that we might omit it altogether.
The Weymar theatre, like the Weymar state, is little adapted to military revolutions; let me
know on occasion what I am to do. The rehearsals will begin in January.

My daughter Blandine has married at Florence, on October 22nd, Emile Ollivier, avocat au barreau
de Paris, and democratic deputy for the city of Paris. I am longing to get back to my work
soon, but unfortunately, the inevitable interruptions caused by my innumerable social relations
and obligations, give me little hope for this winter. I wish I could live with you on the Lake
of Zurich, and go on writing quietly.

God be with you.

Your

F. LISZT. MY DEAR, DEAR FRANZ,

I want you to receive these lines just as you are going to the first performance of your "Dante."
Can I help feeling grieved to the very depth of my existence, when I am compelled to be far
from you on such an evening, and cannot follow the impulse of my heart, which, were I but free,
would take me to you in all circumstances, and from a distance of hundreds of miles in order
to unite myself with you and your soul on such a wedding-day? I shall be with you, at least
in the spirit, and if your work succeeds as it must succeed, do honour to my presence by taking
notice of nothing that surrounds you, neither of the crowd, which must always remain strange
to us, even if it takes us in for a moment, nor of the connoisseur, nor of the brother artist,
for we have none. Only look in my eye just as if you would do if you were playing to me, and
be assured that it will return your glance blissfully, brightly, and gladly, with that intimate
understanding which is our only reward.

Take my hand and take my kiss. It is such a kiss as you gave me when you accompanied me home
one evening last year--you remember, after I told you my sad tale. Many things may lose their
impression upon me. The wonderful sympathy which was in your words during that homeward walk,
the celestial essence of your nature, will follow me everywhere as my most beautiful remembrance.
Only one thing I can place by the side of it, I mean that which you tell me in your works,
and especially in your "Dante." If you tell the same thing to others today, remember that you
can do so in the sense alone in which we display our body, our face, our existence to the world.
We wear ourselves out thereby, and do not expect to receive love and comprehension in return.
Be mine today, wholly mine, and feel assured that by that means you will be all that you are
and can be.

Good luck on your way through hell and purgatory! In the supernal glow with which you have
surrounded me, and in which the world has disappeared from my eyes, we will clasp hands.

Good luck!

Your

RICHARD.

250.

January 1st, 1858.

