She was vaguely wondering what it was that pained her--why there should be that touch of something
almost like subserviency in Milly's manner, as if to make up for some past injury--when her
eyes were arrested by a locket, which, tied by a black ribbon round Milly's neck, had escaped
from the bosom of her dress, and now hung exposed to view.

It contained a portrait of Sydney's face, evidently cut from a photograph by the girl herself.

A flood of light entered Lettice's mind; but she took her discovery with outward calmness.
No thought of accusing or upbraiding Milly ever occurred to her. Why should it? she would have
said. It was not Milly who had been to blame, if the girl's own story were true. It was Sydney
who had been guilty of the blackest treachery, the basest of all crimes. She thought for a
moment of his wife, with pity; she looked with a new interest and tenderness at the innocent
child. She had no certainty--that was true; but she had very little doubt as to the facts of
the case. And, at any rate, she allowed her suspicion to decide her own course of action. Why
need she care any longer what Sydney desired for her? His standard was not hers. She was not
bound to think of his verdict--now. He had put himself out of court. She was not sure that
she should even love him again, for the whole of her pure and generous nature rose-up in passionate
repudiation of the man who could basely purchase his own pleasure at the expense of a woman's
soul, and she knew that he had thenceforth lost all power over her. No opinion of his on any
matter of moral bearing could ever sway her again. The supreme scorn of his conduct which she
felt impelled her to choose her own line of action, to make--or mar--for herself her own career.

It was one of those moments in which the action of others has an unexpectedly vivifying result.
We mortals may die, but our deed lives after us, and is immortal, and bears fruit to all time,
sometimes evil and sometimes good. If the deed has been evil in the beginning, the fruit is
often such as we who did it would give our lives, if we had the power, to destroy.

Thus Sydney's action had far-off issues which he could not foresee. It ruled the whole course
of his sister's afterlife.

There was a light shawl on Milly's thin shoulders. Lettice took one end of it and drew it gently
over the telltale locket. Then, unmindful of Milly's start, and the feverish eagerness with
which her trembling hand thrust the likeness out of sight, she spoke in a very gentle tone:
"You will take cold if you are not more careful of yourself. Have you thought, Milly, what
you are to do now? You want to earn a living for yourself and the child, do you not?"

Milly looked at her with frightened, hopeless eyes. Had Miss Lettice seen the locket, and did
she mean to cast her off for ever? She stammered out some unintelligible words, but the fear
that was uppermost in her mind made her incapable of a more definite reply.

"You must do something for yourself. You do not expect to hear from your child's father again,
I suppose?" said Lettice.

"He said--he said--he would send me money--if I wanted it," said Milly, putting up one hand
to shade her burning face; "but I would rather not!"

"No, you are quite right. You had better take nothing more from him--unless it is for the child.
But I am thinking of yourself. I am going back to London the day after to-morrow, and perhaps
I may take a small house again, as I did before. Will you come with me, Milly?"

This offer was too much for the girl's equanimity. She burst into tears and sobbed vehemently,
with her head upon her hands, for two or three minutes.

"I couldn't," she said at last. "Oh, you're very good, Miss Lettice--and it isn't that I wouldn't
work my fingers to the bone for you--but I couldn't come."

"Why not?"

"I deceived you before. I--I--should be deceiving you again. If you knew--all, you would not
ask me."

"I think I should, Milly. Perhaps I know more of your story than you have told me. But--at
present, at any rate--I do not want to know more. I am not going to question you about the
past. Because you cannot undo what is past, dear, however much you try, but you can live as
if it had never happened; or, better still, you can live a nobler life than you had strength
to live before. Sorrow makes us stronger, Milly, if we take it in the right way. You have your
little one to live for; and you must be brave, and strong, and good, for her sake. Will you
not try? Will it not be easier now to look forward than to look back? I used to teach you out
of an old Book that speaks of 'forgetting the things that are behind.' You must forget the
things that lie behind you, Milly, and press forward to the better life that lies before you now."

The girl listened with an awed look, upon her face.

"I am afraid," she murmured.

"Forget your fear, dear, with the other things that you have to forget, and gather up your
strength to make your little girl's life a good and happy one. In that way, good will come
out of evil--as it so often does. Will you try?"

"Yes," said Milly, "I'll try--if you will help me--and--forgive me."

"You will come with me, then," Lettice rejoined, in a more cheerful tone. "You can bring your
child with you, and you shall have money enough to clothe her and yourself; but you know, Milly,
you must be ready to work and not to be idle. Then I shall be able to help you."

Milly was glad enough to be persuaded. She had learned a sad and bitter lesson, but she was
the wiser for it.

"I shall be able to work better for you than I did at Maple Cottage," she said, with touching
humility. "You see I know more than I did, and I shall have more heart in my work. And--" with
sudden vehemence--"I would work for you, Miss Lettice, to my life's end."

So it was arranged that they were to go up to London together. Mrs. Chigwin moaned a little
about her prospect of loneliness. "But there," she said, "I am not going to make the worst
of it. And nobody that has a garden is ever really lonely, unless she has lost her self-respect,
or taken to loving herself better than her fellow-creatures. By which," she added, "I do not
mean snails and sparrows, but honest and sensible flowers."

BOOK VI.

SUCCESS.

    GEORGE ELIOT.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

AT THE PRISON GATE.

Months had passed since Lettice had written a page of her story. The arrival of the Daltons
at Florence had interrupted her at a critical point. She had not yet acquired the mechanic
art of stopping and going on again as at the turn of a handle, in obedience to a law of demand
and supply; and she would probably have been unable to gather up her threads and continue the
old woof, even if she had made the effort. But she had not made the effort, and now that she
was back in London again it seemed less possible than ever that she should sit down and make it.

This was a serious matter, for the book was to have been done to order. She had undertaken
to furnish the whole of the manuscript by the middle of November, and now the time had come
when she was obliged to admit that this was quite impracticable. She had hoped to put such
a constraint upon herself at Birchmead as would have enabled her to fulfil her promise in the
spirit, and to ask a fortnight's grace for the completion of the manuscript. But circumstances
had prevented her from writing a single line, and she gave up the idea as hopeless.

So when she came up to London, three days before the end of October, she called upon the publisher
with whom she had made her agreement, and confessed her inability to keep her word. Mr. MacAlpine
was polite, but at the same time evidently vexed. If Miss Campion had been ill he was very
sorry to hear it, but he liked to be able to rely on the engagements which he made.

"Pray don't let it trouble you," he said, seeing that her face had begun to fall. "When do
you think you can be ready? I must have your next story, at any rate. Take another three months."

"That is very good of you," said Lettice. "I think I can promise it before the end of January."

So it was settled, and Lettice went away contented.

The discovery which she had made in regard to Sydney and Emily Harrington had destroyed her
former scruples as to the displeasure which Sydney might feel if he were to hear what she now
contemplated. She had no wish to punish her brother. She thought he had been cruel, and indifferent
to the suffering which he had caused; but she was not moved by anything like a vindictive feeling
towards him. She had simply lost the scruples which had beset her, and there was no longer
a desire in her mind to avoid a mere semblance of unconventionality for his sake.

She had chosen three rooms on the ground-floor of a house in a long and dreary terrace, the
windows of which looked across an intervening waste to the walls of Alan's prison; and here
she watched and waited.

The time hung heavy on her hands. She could do nothing, read nothing, think of nothing--except
of the unhappy man within those walls, who had been brought to death's door, and who must have
known a living death for the past six months. To her, merely looking at the walls and thinking
of their victim, every minute seemed an hour, and every hour a day of blank despair. What must
the minutes and hours have seemed to him, buried alive in that hideous pile of bricks, and
in the yet more hideous pile of false accusations and unmerited disgrace?

She had found out the date of the trial, and procured the papers in which it was reported.
The whole wretched story was before her now. She saw how the web had been weaved round him;
she understood the pains which had been taken to keep her own name from being mentioned, and
she noted with burning indignation the persistency with which Sydney had labored, apparently,
to secure a conviction.

She was on the point of seeking out Mr. Larmer, in order to learn from him the assurance of
innocence which Alan must have given to his solicitor; but she refrained. It would look as
though she wanted evidence of what she believed so absolutely without any evidence; and besides,
was it not one of the pleasures which she had promised herself, to hear from Alan's own lips
all that he cared for her to hear?

She stood by her window in the evening, and saw the lights spring up one by one about the frowning
gates of the prison. She was quite alone, Milly having gone out with her baby to buy her some
clothes. Lettice was miserable and depressed, in spite of her good intentions; and as she stood,
half leaning against the shutter in unconscious weariness of body, yet intent with all her
mind upon the one subject that engrossed her, she heard the distant stroke of a tolling bell.

Dong!--dong!--dong! it sounded, with long intervals between the notes. Straight across the
vacant ground, from the shrouded walls of Alan's dungeon, and into the contracting fibres of
her own tortured heart; it smote with sudden terror, turning her blood to ice and her cheeks
to livid whiteness.

Great heaven, it was a death-knell. Could it be Alan who was dead!

For a moment she felt as if she must needs rush into the street and break open those prison
gates, must ascertain at once that Alan was still alive. She went out into the hall and stood
for a moment hesitating. Should she go? and would they tell her at the gates if Alan was alive
or dead?

The landlady heard her moving, and came out of a little apartment at the back of the house,
to see what was going on.

"Were you going out, ma'am?" she asked, curiously.

"I? no; at least," said Lettice, with somewhat difficult utterance, "I was only wondering what
that bell was, and----"

"Oh, that's a bell from the church close by. Sounds exactly like a passing-bell, don't it,
ma'am? And appropriate too. For my son, who is one of the warders, as I think I've mentioned
to you, was here this afternoon, and tells me that one of the prisoners is dead. A gentleman,
too: the one that there was so much talk about a little while ago."

Lettice leaned against the passage wall, glad that in the gathering darkness her face could
not be seen.

"Was his name--Walcott?" she asked.

"Yes, that was it. At least I think so. I know it was Wal--something. He was in for assault,
I believe, and a nicer, quieter-spoken gentleman, my son says he never saw. But he died this
afternoon, I understand, between five and six o'clock--just as his time was nearly out, too,
poor man."

Lettice made no answer. She stole back into her sitting-room and shut the door.

So this was the end. The prisoner was released, indeed; but no mortal voice had told him he
was free, no earthly friend had met him at the door.

She fell on her knees, and prayed that the soul which had been persecuted might have rest.
Then, when the last stroke of the bell had died away, she sat down in mute despair, and felt
that she had lost the best thing life had to give her.

Outside upon the pavement men and women were passing to and fro. There was no forecourt to
the house; passers-by walked close to the windows; they could look in if they tried. Lettice
had not lighted a candle, and had not drawn her blinds, but a gas-lamp standing just in front
threw a feeble glimmer into the room, which fell upon her where she sat. As the shadows deepened
the light grew stronger, and falling direct upon her eyes, roused her at last from the lethargy
into which she had sunk.

She got up and walked to the window, intending to close the shutters. Listlessly for a moment
she looked out into the street, where the gas-light flickered upon the meeting streams of humanity--old
folk and young, busy and idle, hopeful and despairing, all bent on their own designs, heedless
like herself of the jostling world around them.

She had the shutter in her hand, and was turning it upon its hinges, when a face in the crowd
suddenly arrested her. She had seen it once, that ghastly painted face, and it had haunted
her in her dreams for weeks and months afterwards. It had tyrannized over her in her sickness,
and only left her in peace when she began to recover her strength under the bright Italian
skies. And now she saw her again, the wife who had wrecked her husband's happiness, for whom
he had lingered in a cruel prison, who flaunted herself in the streets whilst Alan's brave
and generous heart was stilled for ever.

Cora turned her face as she passed the window, and looked in. She might not in that uncertain
light have recognized the woman whose form stood out from the darkness behind her, but an impulse
moved Lettice which she could not resist. At the moment when the other turned her head she
beckoned to her with her hand, and quickly threw up the sash of the window.

"Mon Dieu!" said Cora, coming up close to her, "is it really you? What do you want with me?"

"Come in! I must speak to you."

"I love you not, Lettice Campion, and you love not me. What would you?"

"I have a message for you--come inside."

"A message! Sapristi! Then I must know it. Open your door."

Lettice closed the window and the shutters, and brought her visitor inside.

The woman of the study and the woman of the pavement looked at each other, standing face to
face for some minutes without speaking a word. They were a contrast of civilization, whom nature
had not intended to contrast, and it would have been difficult to find a stronger antagonism
between two women who under identical training and circumstances might have been expected to
develop similar tastes, and character, and bearing. Both had strong and well-turned figures,
above the middle height, erect and striking, both had noble features, natural grace and vivacity,
constitutions which fitted them for keen enjoyment and zest in life. But from their infancy
onward they had been subjected to influences as different as it is possible to imagine. To
one duty had been the ideal and the guide of existence; the other had been taught to aim at
pleasure as the supreme good. One had ripened into a self-sacrificing woman, to whom a spontaneous
feeling of duty was more imperative than the rules and laws in which she had been trained;
the other had degenerated into a wretched slave of her instincts, for whom the pursuit of pleasure
had become a hateful yet inevitable servitude. Perhaps, as they stood side by side, the immeasurable
distance which divided them mind from mind and body from body was apparent to both. Perhaps
each thought at that moment of the man whose life they had so deeply affected--perhaps each
realized what Alan Walcott must have thought and felt about the other.

"Why have you brought me here?" said Cora at last in a defiant voice.

"It was a sudden thought. I saw you, and I wanted to speak to you."

"Then you have no message as you pretended? You are very polite, mademoiselle. You are pleased
to amuse yourself at my expense?"

"No, I am not amusing myself," said Lettice. There was a ring of sadness in her tones, which
did not escape Cora's attention. She argued weakness from it, and grew more bold.

"Are you not afraid?" she said, menacingly. "Do you not think that I have the power to hurt--as
I have hurt you before--the power, and, still more, the will?"

"I am not afraid."

"Not afraid! You are hatefully quiet and impassive, just like--ah, like all your race! Are
you always so cold and still? Have you no blood in your veins?"

"If you will sit down," said Lettice steadily, "I will tell you something that you ought to
know. It is useless trying to frighten me with your threats. Sit down and rest if you will;
I will get you food or coffee, if you care for either. But there is something that I want to say."

Cora stared at her scornfully. "Food! Coffee! Do you think I am starving?" she asked, with
a savage little laugh. "I have as much money as I want--more than you are ever likely to have,
mademoiselle. You are very naive, mon enfant. You invite me into your room--Lettice Campion
invites Cora Walcott into her room!--where nobody knows us, nobody could trace us--and you
quietly ask me to eat and drink! Eat and drink in this house? It is so likely! How am I to
tell, for example, if your coffee is not poisoned? You would not be very sorry if I were to
die! Parbleu, if you want to poison me, you should tempt me with brandy or champagne. Have
you neither of those to offer me?"

Lettice had drawn back at the first hint of this insinuation, with a look of irrepressible
disgust. She answered coldly, "I have neither brandy nor champagne to give you."

"Allons, donc! Why do I stay here then?" said Cora jumping up from the chair where she had
seated herself. "This is very wearisome. Your idea was not very clever, Mademoiselle Lettice;
you should lay your plans better if you want to trick a woman like me."

"Why should I wish to trick you?" said Lettice, with grave, quiet scorn. "What object could
I have in killing you?"

"Ma foi, what object should you not have? Revenge, of course. Have I not injured you? have
I not taken away your good name already? All who know you have heard my story, and many who
do not know you; and nearly every one of them believes it to be true. You robbed me of my husband,
mademoiselle, you know it; and you have but too good reason to wish me dead, in order that
you may take a wife's place at the convict's side."

"You are mad. Listen to me----"

"I will listen to nothing. I will speak now. I will give you a last warning. Do you know what
this is?"

She took a bottle from her pocket, a bottle of fluted, dark-colored glass, and held it in her hand.

"Look! This is vitriol, the friend of the injured and the defenceless. I have carried it with
me ever since I followed my husband to your house at Brook Green, and saw you making signals
to him at midnight. I came once after that, and knocked at your door, intending then to avenge
my wrongs; but you had gone away, and I was brutally treated by your police. But if I could
not punish you I could punish him, for he belonged to me and not to you, and I had a right
to make him suffer. I have made him suffer a little, it seems to me. Wait--I have more to say.
Shall I make him suffer more? I have punished you through him; shall I punish him through you?
For he would not like you to be maimed and disfigured through life: his sensitive soul would
writhe, would it not? to know that you were suffering pain. Do you know what this magic water
is? It stings and bites and eats away the flesh--it will blind you so that you can never see
him again; and it will mar your white face so that he will never want to look at you. This
is what I carry about for you."

Lettice watched the hand that held the bottle; but in truth she thought very little of the
threat. Death had done for her already what this woman was talking about. Alan was past the
love or vengeance of either of them, and all her pleasure in life was gone for ever.

"I thought I should find you here," Cora went on, "waiting at the prison for your lover! But
I am waiting for him, too. I am his wife still. I have the right to wait for him, and you have
not. And if you are there when he comes out, I shall stay my hand no longer. I warn you; so
be prepared. But perhaps"--and she lifted the bottle, while her eyes flamed with dangerous
light, and her voice sank to a sharp whisper--"perhaps it would be better to settle the question
now!"

"The question," said Lettice, with almost unnatural calm of manner, "is settled for us. Alan
has left his prison. Your husband is dead."

The woman gazed at her in stupefaction. Her hand fell to her side, and the light died out of
her bold black eyes.

"Alan dead!' What is it you say? How do you know?"

"He had a fever in the jail to which you sent him. He has been at death's door for many weeks.
Not an hour ago a warder came here and said that he was dead. Are you satisfied with your work?"

"My work?" said Cora, drawing back. "I have not killed him!"

"Yes," said Lettice, a surge of bitter anger rising in her heart, "yes, you have killed him,
as surely as you tried to kill him with your pistol at Aix-les-Bains, and with his own dagger
in Surrey Street. You are a murderess, and you know it well. But for you, Alan Walcott would
still be living an honorable, happy life. You have stabbed him to the heart, and he is dead.
That is the message I have to give you--to tell you that you have killed him, and that he is
gone to a land where your unnatural hate can no longer follow him!"

Lettice stood over the cowering woman, strong and unpitying in her stern indignation, lifted
out of all thought of herself by the intensity of her woe. Cora shrank away from her, slipping
the bottle into her pocket, and even covertly making the sign of the cross as Lettice's last
words fell upon her ear--words that sounded to her untutored imagination like a curse. But
she could not be subdued for long. She stood silent for a few moments when Lettice ceased to
speak, but finally a forced laugh issued from the lips that had grown pale beneath her paint.

