In the nesting season the Turnstone is widely distributed throughout the northern portions
of both continents, and wanders southward along the sea-coasts of all countries. In America
it breeds commonly in the Barren Lands of the Arctic coasts and the Anderson River districts,
on the Islands of Franklin and Liverpool bays, nesting in July. In the Hudson's Bay country
the eggs are laid in June. The nest is a hollow scratched in the earth, and is lined with bits
of grass.

The Turnstone is known by various names: "Brant Bird," "Bead-bird," "Horse-foot-Snipe," "Sand-runner,"
"Calico-back," "Chicaric" and "Chickling." The two latter names have reference to its rasping
notes, "Calico-back," to the variegated plumage of the upper parts.

In summer the adults are oddly pied above with black, white, brown, and chestnut-red, but the
red is totally wanting in winter. They differ from the true Plovers in the well developed hind-toe,
and the strong claws, but chiefly in the more robust feet, without trace of web between the toes.

The eggs are greenish-drab in color, spotted, blotched, and dotted irregularly and thickly
with yellowish and umber brown. The eggs are two or four, abruptly pyriform in shape.

SNOWBIRDS.

    Along the narrow sandy height
      I watch them swiftly come and go,
        Or round the leafless wood,
      Like flurries of wind-driven snow,
    Revolving in perpetual flight,
        A changing multitude.

    Nearer and nearer still they sway,
      And, scattering in a circled sweep,
        Rush down without a sound;
      And now I see them peer and peep,
    Across yon level bleak and gray,
        Searching the frozen ground,--

    Until a little wind upheaves,
      And makes a sudden rustling there,
        And then they drop their play,
      Flash up into the sunless air,
    And like a flight of silver leaves
        Swirl round and sweep away.
                         ARCHIBALD LAMPMAN.

BIRDS OF PASSAGE.

    Black shadows fall
    From the lindens tall,
    That lift aloft their massive wall
        Against the southern sky;

    And from the realms
    Of the shadowy elms,
    A tide-like darkness overwhelms
        The fields that round us lie.

    But the night is fair
    And everywhere
    A warm, soft vapor fills the air
        And distant sounds seem near;

    And above, in the light
    Of the star-lit night,
    Swift birds of passage wing their flight
        Through the dewy atmosphere.

    I hear the beat
    Of their pinions fleet,
    As from the land of snow and sleet
        They seek a southern lea.

    I hear the cry
    Of their voices high
    Falling dreamily through the sky,
        But their forms I cannot see.
                              --LONGFELLOW.

THE BELTED PIPING PLOVER.

In the Missouri river region and in contiguous parts of the interior of the United States,
the Belted Piping Plover is a common summer resident, and is found along the shores of the
great lakes, breeding on the flat, pebbly beach between the sand dunes and shore. It is the
second of the ring-necked Plovers, and arrives in April in scattering flocks, which separate
into pairs a month later. It strays at times into the interior, and has been known to breed
on the borders of ponds many miles from the coast. In New England, however, it seldom wanders
far from the shore, and prefers sand islands near the main land for its nesting haunts. Nelson
says, that some thirty pairs, which were breeding along the beach at Waukegan, within a space
of two miles, successfully concealed their nests, for which he made diligent search, although
the birds were continually circling about or standing at a short distance, uttering an occasional
note of alarm.

These birds have a soft, low, piping note, which they utter not only upon the wing, but occasionally
as they run about upon the ground, and, during the early nesting season, a peculiar, loud,
prolonged, musical call, that readily attracts attention. In other respects, their habits are
not noticeably differed from the Semi-palmated. (See July BIRDS, p.8.)

Their nests are without lining, a mere depression in the sand. The eggs are usually four, light
gray to creamy buff, finely and rather sparsely speckled or dotted with blackish brown and
purplish gray.

The female Belted Piping Plover is similar to the male, but with the dark colors lighter and
less in extent. The young have no black band in front, while the collar around the neck is
ashy brown.

These interesting and valuable game birds are found associated with various beach birds and
Sandpipers, and they become exceedingly fat during the latter part of the summer.

All the Plovers have a singular habit when alighting on the ground in the nesting time; they
drop their wings, stand with their legs half bent, and tremble as if unable to support their
bodies. In this absurd position they will stand, according to a well-known observer, for several
minutes, uttering a curious sound, and then seem to balance themselves with great difficulty.
This singular manoeuvre is no doubt intended to produce a belief that they may be easily caught,
and thus turn the attention of the egg-gatherer from the pursuit of the eggs to themselves,
their eggs being recognized the world over, as a great delicacy.

    The Plover utters a piping sound
    While on the wing or on the ground;
    All a tremble it drops its wings,
    And, with legs half bent, it sings:
    "My nest is near, come take the eggs,
    And take me too,--I'm off my legs."
    In vain men search with eager eyes,
    No nest is found, the Plover flies!
                                   --C. C. M

THE WILD TURKEY.

It has been observed that when the Turkey makes its appearance on table all conversation should
for the moment be suspended. That it is eaten in silence on some occasions may be inferred
from the following anecdote: A certain judge of Avignon, famous for his love of the glorious
bird, which the American people have wisely selected for the celebration of Thanksgiving Day,
said to a friend: "We have just been dining on a superb Turkey. It was excellent. Stuffed with
truffles to the very throat--tender, delicate, filled with perfume! We left nothing but the
bones!" "How many were there of you?" asked his friend. "Two," replied the judge, "the Turkey--and
myself!" The reason, no doubt, why this brilliant bird, which so much resembles the domestic
Turkey, is now almost extinct. It was formerly a resident of New England, and is still found
to some extent as far north-west as the Missouri River and south-west as Texas. In Ohio it
was formerly an abundant resident. Dr. Kirtland (1850) mentions the time when Wild Turkeys
were more common than tame ones are now.

The nests of this bird are very difficult to discover, as they are made on the ground, midst
tall, thick weeds or tangled briars. The female will not leave the nest until almost trodden
upon. It is stated that when the eggs are once touched, she will abandon her nest.

The Turkey became known to Europeans almost immediately upon the discovery of America by the
Spaniards in 1518, and it is probable that it is distinctively an American bird. In its wild
state, its plumage, as in the case of the Honduras Turkey, grows more lustrous and magnificent
as the family extends southward.

The "Gobblers," as the males are called, associate in parties of ten to one hundred, seeking
their food apart from the females, which wander singly with their young or in troops with other
hens and their families, sometimes to the number of seventy or eighty. They travel on foot,
unless disturbed by the hunter or a river compels them to take wing. It is said that when about
to cross a river, they select a high eminence from which to start, that their flight may be
more sure, and in such a position they sometimes remain for a day or more, as if in consultation.
On such occasions the males gobble vociferously, strutting about pompously as if to animate
their companions. At the signal note of their leader, they wing their way to the opposite shore.

The Wild Turkey feeds on many kinds of berries, fruits, and grasses. Beetles, tadpoles, young
frogs, and lizards are sometimes found in its crop. When the Turkeys reach their destination,
they disperse in flocks, devouring the mast as they proceed.

Pairing time begins in March. The sexes roost apart, but at no great distance, so that when
the female utters a call, every male within hearing responds, rolling note after note in rapid
succession, in a voice resembling that of the tame Turkey when he hears any unusual noise.
Where the Turkeys are numerous, the woods from one end to the other, sometimes for many miles,
resound with these voices of wooing.

The specimen of the Wild Turkey presented in this number of BIRDS is of extraordinary size
and beauty, and has been much admired. The day is not far distant when a living specimen of
this noble bird will be sought for in vain in the United States.

THE CERULEAN WARBLER.

This beautiful little sky-blue feathered creature is well named Azure Warbler, or again White-throated
Blue Warbler, and is the most abundant of the genus here.

It is a bird of the wood, everywhere associated with the beautiful tall forests of the more
northern counties of western New York, sometimes found in the open woods of pasture-lands,
and quite partial to hardwood trees. In its flitting motion in search of insect-prey, and in
the jerking curves of its more prolonged flight, as also in its structure, it is a genuine
Wood Warbler and keeps for the most part to what Thoreau calls the "upper story" of its sylvan
domain.

All Warblers, it has been said, depend upon their markings rather than song for their identity,
which renders the majority of the tribe of greater interest to the scientist than to the novice.
Until you have named four or five of the commonest species as landmarks, you will be considerably
confused.

Audubon described the song of the Cerulean Warbler as "extremely sweet and mellow," whereas
it is a modest little strain, says Chapman, or trill, divided into syllables like zee, zee,
zee, ze-ee-ee-eep, or according to another observer, rheet, rheet, rheet, rheet, ridi, idi,
e-e-e-e-ee; beginning with several soft warbling notes and ending in a rather prolonged but
quite musical squeak. The latter and more rapid part of the strain, which is given in the upward
slide, approaches an insect quality of tone which is more or less peculiar to all true Warblers,
a song so common as to be a universal characteristic of our tall forests.

It is not strange that the nest of this species has been so seldom discovered, even where the
bird is very abundant during the breeding season. It is built in the higher horizontal branches
of forest trees, always out some distance from the trunk, and ranging from twenty to fifty
feet above the ground. One described by Dr. Brewer, found in Ontario, near Niagara Falls, was
built in a large oak tree at the height of fifty or more feet from the ground. It was placed
horizontally on the upper surface of a slender limb between two small twigs; and the branch
on which it was thus saddled was only an inch and a half in thickness, being nine feet from
the trunk of the tree. The abandoned home was secured with great difficulty.

The nest is a rather slender fabric, somewhat similar to the nest of the Redstart, and quite
small for the bird, consisting chiefly of a strong rim firmly woven of strips of fine bark,
stems of grasses, and pine needles, bound round with flaxen fibres of plants and wool. Around
the base a few bits of hornets' nests, mosses, and lichens are loosely fastened. The nest within
is furnished with fine stems and needles, the flooring very thin and slight.

The bird is shy when started from the nest, and has a sharp chipping alarm-note common to the
family.

The Cerulean Warbler is found in the Eastern States, but is more numerous west of the Allegheny
mountains, and throughout the heavily wooded districts of the Mississippi valley. In winter
it migrates to Central America and Cuba. The Warblers are of unfailing interest to the lover
of bird life. Apart from the beauty of the birds themselves, with their perpetually contrasting
colors among the green leaves, their pretty ways furnish to the silent watcher an ever changing
spectacle of the innocent life in the tree-tops.

THE WILD TURKEY.

I thought my picture would appear in this number of BIRDS. What would Thanksgiving be without
a Turkey, I'd like to know.

The editor says that I am a bird of ex-tra-or-di-na-ry size and beauty. That word is as big
as I am, but by spelling it, I guess you will understand.

I look as proud as a peacock, don't I? Well, I am just as proud. You ought to see me strut,
and hear me talk when the hen-turkeys are around. Why, sometimes when there is a large troop
of us in the woods you can hear us gobble, gobble, gobble, for many miles. We are so fond of
talking to each other.

That is when we are about to set up housekeeping, you think.

Yes, in March and April. After the nests are made, and the little turkeys hatched out, we big,
handsome fellows go off by ourselves. The hen-turkeys, with their young broods, do the same.

Sometimes there are as many as a hundred in our troop and seventy or eighty in theirs. We travel
on foot, picking up food as we go, till we meet a man with a gun, or come to a wide river.

Then we have to fly.

In a flock? Oh, yes. We choose some high place from which to get a good start. There we all
stay, sometimes a day or two, strutting about and talking big. It is gobble, gobble gobble,
from morning till night. Just like one of your conventions, you know. After awhile our leader
gives the signal and off we all fly to the opposite shore.

Did you ever see one of our nests? No? Well, they are not easily seen, though they are made
on the ground. You see, we are cunning and build them among tall, thick weeds and tangled briars.

I hope, if you ever come across one, you will not touch it, because my mate would never return
to it again, if you did.

What do we eat?

Berries, fruit and grasses, beetles, tadpoles, frogs and lizards. In fact anything we consider
good.

THE YELLOW-BILLED TROPIC BIRD.

In appearance this bird resembles a large Tern (see Vol. I, page 103), and its habits are similar
to those of the Terns. Inter-tropical, it is of a wandering disposition, breeding on the islands
of mid-ocean thousands of miles apart. It is noted for its elegant, airy, and long-protracted
flight. Davie says that on Bourbon, Mauritius and other islands east and south of Madagascar
it breeds in the crevices of the rocks of inaccessible cliffs, and in hollow trees. In the
Bermuda Islands it nests about the first of May in holes in high rocky places along the shores.
Here its favorite resorts are the small islands of Great Sound, Castle Harbor, and Harrington
Sound. The Phaeton, as it is felicitously called, nests in the Bahamas in holes in the perpendicular
faces of cliffs and on the flat surfaces of rocks. A single egg is laid, which has a ground-color
of purplish brownish white, covered in some specimens almost over the entire surface with fine
reddish chocolate-colored spots.

These species compose the small but distinct family of tropic birds and are found throughout
the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. Long journeys are made by them across the
open sea, their flight when emigrating being strong, rapid, and direct, and immense distances
are covered by them as they course undismayed by wind or storm. In feeding, Chapman says, they
course over the water, beating back and forth at a height of about forty feet, and their long
willowy tail-feathers add greatly to the grace and beauty of their appearance when on the wing.
They are of rare and probably accidental occurrence on our coasts.

    The Songs of Nature never cease,
    Her players sue not for release
    In nearer fields, on hills afar,
    Attendant her musicians are:
    From water brook or forest tree,
    For aye comes gentle melody,
    The very air is music blent--
    An universal instrument.
                --JOHN VANCE CHENEY.

THE YELLOW-BILLED TROPIC BIRD.

The people who make a study of birds say that I look like a large Tern, and that my habits
are like his.

I don't know whether that is so, I am sure, for I have no acquaintance with that bird, but
you little folks can turn to your March number of BIRDS and see for yourselves if it is true.
Then, the color of my coat is much more beautiful than his, I think, don't you think so, too?

We are not so common as the Terns, either, for they are very numerous. There are only three
species of our family, so we consider ourselves quite distinct.

What are we noted for?

Well, principally for our long distance flights across the sea, elegant and airy, as the writers
say of us. Maybe that is the reason they call us the Phaeton sometimes.

Do we go north in the summer as so many other birds do?

Ugh! You make me shudder. No, indeed! We never go farther north than Florida. Our home, or
where we build our nests, is in the tropical and sub-tropical regions, where the weather is
very warm, you know.

We are great wanderers and build our nests on islands, way out in the ocean many thousands
of miles apart.

In trees?

Oh, no, but in any hole we see in the face of a great rock or cliff, and sometimes right on
the top of a rock.

How many eggs?

Only one. That is the reason, you see, that our family remains small.

Sing?

Oh, my, no! We are not singing birds. We have a call-note, though harsh and guttural, which
sounds like tip, tip, tip.

THE EUROPEAN KINGFISHER.

Rarely indeed is this charming bird now found in England, where formerly it could be seen darting
hither and thither in most frequented places. Of late years, according to Dixon, he has been
persecuted so greatly, partly by the collector, who never fails to secure the brilliant creature
for his cabinet at every opportunity, and partly by those who have an inherent love for destroying
every living object around them. Gamekeepers, too, are up in arms against him, because of his
inordinate love of preying on the finny tribe. Where the Kingfisher now is seen is in the most
secluded places, the author adds, where the trout streams murmur through the silent woods,
but seldom trod by the foot of man; or in the wooded gullies down which the stream from the
mountains far above rushes and tumbles over the huge rocks, or lies in pools smooth as the
finest mirror.

The Kingfisher is comparatively a silent bird, though he sometimes utters a few harsh notes
as he flies swift as a meteor through the wooded glades. You not unfrequently flush the Kingfisher
from the holes in the banks, and amongst the brambles skirting the stream. He roosts at night
in holes, usually the nesting cavity. Sometimes he will alight on stumps and branches projecting
from the water, and sit quiet and motionless, but on your approach he darts quickly away, often
uttering a feeble seep, seep, as he goes.

The habits of the English Kingfisher are identical with those of the American, though the former
is the more brilliant bird in plumage. (See BIRDS, Vol. I, p. 61.) The ancients had a very
absurd idea as to its nesting habits. They believed that the bird built a floating nest, and
whenever the old bird and her charge were drifted by the winds, as they floated over the briny
deep, the sea remained calm. He was, therefore, to the ancient mariner, a bird held sacred
in the extreme. Even now these absurd superstitions have not wholly disappeared. For instance,
the nest is said to be made of the fish bones ejected by the bird, while the real facts are,
that they not only nest but roost in holes, and it must follow that vast quantities of rejected
fish bones accumulate, and on these the eggs are of necessity laid.

These eggs are very beautiful objects, being of a deep pinkish hue, usually six in number.

The food of the Kingfisher is not composed entirely of fish, the remains of fresh-water shrimps
being found in their stomachs, and doubtless other animals inhabiting the waters are from time
to time devoured.

The English Kingfisher, says Dixon, remains throughout the year, but numbers perish when the
native streams are frozen. There is, perhaps, not a bird in all the ranks of the feathered
gems of equatorial regions, be it ever so fair, the Humming-bird excepted, that can boast a
garb so lovely as this little creature of the northland. Naturalists assert that the sun has
something to do with the brilliant colors of the birds and insects of the tropics, but certainly,
the Kingfisher is an exception of the highest kind. Alas, that he has no song to inspire the
muse of some English bard!

THE EUROPEAN KINGFISHER.

Little Folks:

I shouldn't have liked it one bit if my picture had been left out of this beautiful book. My
cousin, the American Kingfisher, had his in the February number, and I find he had a good deal
to say about himself in his letter, too.

Fine feathers make fine birds, they say. Well, if that is true, I must be a very fine bird,
for surely my feathers are gay enough to please anybody--I think.

To see me in all my beauty, you must seek me in my native wood. I look perfectly gorgeous there,
flitting from tree to tree. Or maybe you would rather see me sitting on a stump, gazing down
into the clear pool which looks like a mirror.

"Oh, what a vain bird!" you would say; "see him looking at himself in the water;" when all
the time I had my eye on a fine trout which I intended to catch for my dinner.

Well, though I wear a brighter dress than my American cousin, our habits are pretty much alike.
I am sure he catches fish the same way I do--when he is hungry.

With a hook and line, as you do?

Oh, no; with my bill, which is long, you observe, and made for that very purpose. You should
just see me catch a fish! Down I fly to a stump near the brook, or to a limb of a tree which
overhangs the water, and there I sit as quiet as a mouse for quite a while.

Everything being so quiet, a fine speckled trout, or a school of troutlets, play near the surface.
Now is my chance! Down I swoop, and up I come with a fish crosswise in my bill.

Back I go to my perch, toss the minnow into the air, and as it falls catch it head first and
swallow it whole. I tell you this because you ought to know why I am called Kingfisher.

Do we swallow bones and all?

Yes, but we afterwards eject the bones, when we are resting or roosting in our holes in the
banks of the stream. That must be the reason people who write about us say we build our nests
of fish bones.

Sing?

Oh, no, we are not singing birds; but sometimes, when flying swiftly through the air, we give
a harsh cry that nobody but a bird understands.

                                            Your friend,
                                       THE ENGLISH KINGFISHER.

THE VERMILION FLY-CATCHER.

Thickets along water courses are favorite resorts of this beautiful Fly-catcher, which may
be seen only on the southern border of the United States, south through Mexico to Guatemala,
where it is a common species. Mr. W. E. D. Scott notes it as a common species about Riverside,
Tucson, and Florence, Arizona. Its habits are quite similar to those of other Fly-catchers,
though it has not been so carefully observed as its many cousins in other parts of the country.
During the nesting season, the male frequently utters a twittering song while poised in the
air, in the manner of the Sparrow Hawk, and during the song it snaps its bill as if catching
insects.

The Vermilion's nest is usually placed in horizontal forks of ratana trees, and often in mesquites,
not more than six feet from the ground; they are composed of small twigs and soft materials
felted together, with the rims covered with lichens, and the shallow cavity lined with a few
horse or cow hairs. Dr. Merrill states that they bear considerable resemblance to nests of
the Wood Pewee in appearance and the manner in which they are saddled to the limb. Nests have
been found, however, which lacked the exterior coating of lichens.

Three eggs are laid of a rich creamy-white with a ring of large brown and lilac blotches at
the larger end.

A WINTER NEST.

    Pallid, wan-faced clouds
    Press close to the frozen pines,
    And follow the jagged lines
    Of fence, that the sleet enshrouds.

    Sharp in the face of the sky,
    Gaunt, thin-ribbed leaves are blown;
    They rise with a shuddering moan,
    Then sink in the snow and die.

    At the edge of the wood a vine
    Still clings to the sleeping beech,
    While its stiffened tendrils reach
    A nest, and around it twine.

    A little gray nest all alone,
    With its feathery lining of snow,
    Where bleak winds, piping low,
    Croon a sweet minor tone.
                    --NORA A. PIPER.

BIRD MISCELLANY.

    Red and yellow, green and brown,
      Leaves are whirling, rustling down;
    Acorn babes in their cradles lie,
      Through the bare trees the brown birds fly;
    The Robin chirps as he flutters past--
      November days have come at last.
                               --CLARA LOUISE STRONG.

"I have watched birds at their singing under many and widely differing circumstances, and I
am sure that they express joyous anticipation, present content, and pleasant recollection,
each as the mood moves, and with equal ease."

                 --M. THOMPSON.

THE LAZULI BUNTING.

    The joy is great of him who strays
    In shady woods on summer days.
                       --MAURICE THOMPSON.

In Colorado and Arizona the Lazuli Painted Finch, as it is called, is common, while in California
it is very abundant, being, in fact, generally distributed throughout the west, and along the
Pacific Coast it is found as far north as Puget Sound, during the summer. Davie says it replaces
the Indigo Bunting, (See BIRDS, Vol. I, page 174,) from the Plains to the Pacific, being found
in all suitable localities. The nest is usually built in a bush or in the lower limbs of trees,
a few feet from the ground. Fine strips of bark, small twigs, grasses, and hair are used in
preparing it for the four tiny, light bluish-green eggs, which readily fade when exposed to
light. The eggs so closely resemble those of the Bluebird as not to be distinguishable with
certainty. The nest is an inartistic one for a bird of gay plumage.

From Florence A. Merriam's charming book, "A-Birding on a Bronco," we select a description
of the pretty manners of this attractive bird. She says:

"While waiting for the Woodpeckers, one day, I saw a small brownish bird flying busily back
and forth to some green weeds. She was joined by her mate, a handsome blue Lazuli Bunting,
even more beautiful than our lovely Indigo, and he flew beside her full of life and joy. He
lit on the side of a cockle stem, and on the instant caught sight of me. Alas! he seemed suddenly
turned to stone. He held onto that stalk as if his little legs had been bars of iron and I
a devouring monster. When he had collected his wits enough to fly off, instead of the careless
gay flight with which he had come out through the open air, he timidly kept low within the
cockle field, making a circuitous way through the high stalks. He could be afraid of me if
he liked, I thought, for after a certain amount of suspicion, an innocent person gets resentful;
at any rate I was going to see that nest. Creeping up cautiously when the mother bird was away,
so as not to scare her, and carefully parting the mallows, I looked in. Yes, there it was,
a beautiful little sage-green nest of old grass laid in a coil. I felt as pleased as if having
a right to share the family happiness. After that I watched the small worker gather material
with new interest, knowing where she was going to put it. She worked fast, but did not take
the first thing she found, by any means. With a flit of the wing she went in nervous haste
from cockle to cockle, looking eagerly about her. Jumping down to the ground, she picked up
a bit of grass, threw it down dissatisfied, and turned away like a person looking for something.
At last she lit on the side of a thistle, and tweaking out a fibre, flew with it to the nest.

"A month after the first encounter with the father Lazuli, I found him looking at me around
the corner of a cockle stalk, and in passing back again, caught him singing full tilt, though
his bill was full of insects! After we had turned our backs I looked over my shoulder and had
the satisfaction of seeing him take his beakful to the nest. You couldn't help admiring him,
for though not a warrior who would snap his bill over the head of an enemy of his home, he
had a gallant holiday air with his blue coat and merry song, and you felt sure his little brown
mate would get cheer and courage enough from his presence to make family dangers appear less
frightful."

THE LAZULI BUNTING.

You think you have seen me before? Well, I must admit my relative, the Indigo Bunting, and
I do look alike. They say though, I am the prettier bird of the two. Turn to your May number,
page 174, and decide for yourselves.

I live farther west than he does. You find him in the eastern and middle states. Then he disappears
and I take his place, all the way from the Great Plains to the Pacific Ocean.

Some people call me the Lazuli Painted Finch. That's funny, for I never painted anything in
my life--not even my cheeks. Would you like to know how my mate and I go to housekeeping? A
lady who visits California, where I live, will tell you all about it. She rides a horse called
Mountain Billy. He will stand still under a tree so that she can peep into nests and count
the eggs, when the mother bird is away.

She can travel a good many miles in that way, and meet lots of birds. She says in her book,
that she has got acquainted with seventy-five families, without robbing one nest, or doing
the little creatures any harm.

Well, one day this lady saw a brownish bird flying busily back and forth to some tall green
weeds. After a while a handsome blue Bunting flew along side of her, full of life and joy.

That was my mate and I. How frightened I was! for our nest was in those green weeds and not
very far from the ground. I flew away as soon as I could pluck up courage, but not far, so
that I could watch the lady and the nest. How my heart jumped when I saw her creep up, part
the weeds and look in. All she saw was a few twigs and a sage-green nest of old grass laid
in a coil. My mate hadn't put in the lining yet; you see it takes her quite a while to get
the thistle down and the hair and strips of bark for the inside. The next time the lady passed,
the house was done and my mate was sitting on the nest. She just looked down at us from the
back of Mountain Billy and passed on.

Four weeks after, she came again, and there I was, flying about and singing "like a bird,"
my mouth full of insects, too. I waited 'till she had turned away before I flew to the nest
to feed our little ones. I didn't know, you see, that she was such a good friend of ours, or
I wouldn't have been so afraid.

SUMMARY

Page 163.

#SUMMER TANAGER.#--Piranga rubra. Other names: "Summer Red-bird," "Rose Tanager."

RANGE--Eastern United States west to the edge of the Plains; north regularly to about 40°--New
Jersey, central Ohio, Illinois, casually north to Connecticut and Ontario, accidentally to
Nova Scotia, wintering in Cuba, Central America, and northern South America. (Davie.)

NEST--Of bark strips and leaves interwoven with various vegetable substances, on drooping branch
of tree.

EGGS--Three or four, bluish-white or greenish-blue, with cinnamon or olive-brown markings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 168.

#AMERICAN WHITE-FRONTED GOOSE#--Anser albifrons gambeli. Other names: "Laughing Goose," "Speckle
Belly."

RANGE--North America, breeding far northward; in winter south to Mexico and Cuba, rare on the
Atlantic coast.

NEST--On the ground, of grasses lined with down.

Eggs--Six or seven, dull greenish-yellow with obscure darker tints.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 171.

#TURNSTONE.#--Arenaria interpres. Other names: "Brant Bird," "Calico-back," "Bead-bird," "Sand-runner,"
"Chickling," "Horse-foot Snipe."

RANGE--Nearly cosmopolitan; nests in the Arctic regions, and in America migrates southward
to Patagonia. (Chapman.)

NEST--A slight depression on the ground.

EGGS--Two or four, greenish-drab, spotted all over with brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 175.

#THE BELTED PIPING PLOVER.#--Aegialitis meloda circumcincta.

RANGE--Missouri river region; occasionally eastward to the Atlantic coast.

NEST--Depression in the sand without lining.

EGGS--Four, light gray to creamy buff, finely speckled with blackish brown and purplish gray.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 180.

#WILD TURKEY#--Meleagris gallopava.

RANGE--Eastern United States from Pennsylvania southward to Florida, west to Wisconsin, the
Indian Territory and Texas.

NEST--On the ground, at the base of a bush or tree.

EGGS--Ten to fourteen, pale cream buff, finely and evenly speckled with grayish brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 181.

#CERULEAN WARBLER#--Dendræca caerulea. Other names: "Azure Warbler;" "White-throated Blue Warbler."

RANGE--Mississippi valley as far north as Minnesota, and eastward as far as Lockport, N. Y.
(Davison.) Winters in the tropics.

NEST--Of fine grasses bound with spider's silk, lined with strips of bark and with a few lichens
attached to its upper surface, in a tree, twenty-five to fifty feet from the ground. (Chapman.)

EGGS--Four, creamy-white, thickly covered with rather heavy blotches of reddish brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 186.

#YELLOW-BILLED TROPIC BIRD.#--Phaethon flavirostris. Other names: "Phaeton."

RANGE.--Tropical coasts; Atlantic coasts of tropical America, West Indies, Bahamas, Bermudas;
casual in Florida and accidental in Western New York and Nova Scotia. (Chapman.)

NEST--In holes in the perpendicular faces of cliffs, also on the flat surfaces of rocks.

EGGS--One, ground color of purplish brownish white, covered with fine reddish chocolate-colored
spots. (Davie.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 190.

#EUROPEAN KINGFISHER.#--Alcedo ispida.

RANGE--England and portions of Europe.

NEST--In holes of the banks of streams.

EGGS--Usually six, of a deep pinkish hue.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 193.

#VERMILION FLY-CATCHER.#--Pyocephalus rubineus mexicanus.

RANGE--Southern Border of the United States south through Mexico and Guatemala.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 198.

#LAZULI BUNTING.#--Passerina amoena. Other name: "Lazuli Painted Finch."

