Lord Bacon and Shakspeare.--Can any of those correspondents of "N. & Q." who have devoted attention
to the lives of two of England's greatest worthies, Francis Bacon and William Shakspeare, account
for the extraordinary fact that, although these two highly gifted men were cotemporaries, no
mention of or allusion to the other is to be found in the writings of either? Bacon was born
in 1561, and died in 1626; Shakspeare, who was born in 1563, and died ten years before the
great chancellor, not only loved

    "To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy,"

but breathes throughout every page of his wondrous writings a spirit of philosophy as profound
as his imagination is unlimited; yet nowhere, it is believed, can he be traced as making the
slight allusion to the great father of modern philosophy. Bacon, on the other hand, whom one
can scarcely suppose to have been ignorant of the writings of the dramatist, but who indeed
may rather be believed to have known him personally, seems altogether to ignore his existence,
or the existence of any of his matchless works. As the solution of this problem could not but
throw much light on that most interesting subject,--the history of the minds of Shakespeare
and Bacon,--I venture to throw it out as a fit subject for the research of some of your contributors
versed in the writings of these great spirits of their own age, no less than of all time.

THETA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Decomposed Cloth.--In Mr. Wright's valuable work on The Celt, the Roman, and the Saxon, p.
308., is mentioned the discovery at York of a Roman coffin, in which were distinctly visible
"the colour, a rich purple," as well as texture of the cloth with which the body it had contained
had been covered.

I should think that the colour observed was not that of the ancient dye, but rather was caused
by phosphate of iron, formed by the combination of iron contained in the soil or water, with
phosphoric acid, arising from the decomposition of animal matter. It may often be observed
in similar cases, as about animal remains found in bogs, and about ancient leather articles
found in {439} excavations, especially when any iron is in contact with them, or in the soles
of shoes or sandals studded with nails.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Wallington.

First and Last.--There cannot be two words more different in meaning than these, and yet they
are both used to express the same sense! Of two authors equally eminent, one shall write that
a thing is of the first and the other of the last importance, though each means the greatest
or utmost. How is this? To me first appears preferable, though last may be justifiable. Being
on the subject of words, I am reminded of obnoxious, which is applied in the strangest ways
by different authors. It is true that the Roman writers used obnoxius in various senses; but
it does not seem so pliable or smooth in English. Generally it is held to indicate disagreeable
or inimical, though our dictionaries do not admit it to have either of those meanings!

A. B. C.

Cucumber Time.--This term, which the working-tailors of England use to denote that which their
masters call "the flat season," has been imported from a country which periodically sends many
hundreds of its tailors to seek employment in our metropolis. The German phrase is "Die saure
Gurken Zeit," or pickled gherkin time. A misunderstanding of the meaning of the phrase may
have given rise to the vulgar witticism, that tailors are vegetarians, who "live on cucumber"
while at play, and on "cabbage" while at work.

N. W. S.

MS. Sermons of the Eighteenth Century.--Having lately become possessed, at the sale of an an
old library, of some MS. Sermons by the Rev. J. Harris, Rector of Abbotsbury, Dorset, from
the year 1741 to 1763, I shall be happy to place them in the hands of any descendant of that
gentleman.

W. EWART.

Pimperne, Dorset.

Boswell's "Johnson."--In vol. v. p. 272. of my favourite edition, and p. 784. of the edition
in one volume, Johnson, writing to Brocklesby, under date Sept. 2, 1784, calls Windham "inter
stellas Luna minores."

F. C.

Bangalore.

Stage Coaches.--It occurs to me as highly desirable that, before the recollection of the old
stage coach has faded from the memory of all but the oldest inhabitant, an authentic statement
should be placed on record of the length of the stages, and the speed that was obtained, by
this mode of conveyance, in which England was for so many years without a rival.

The speed of mail coaches is, I believe chronicled in the British Almanac of the Society for
the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge; but their speed, if I mistake not, was surpassed by that
of the "Rival," which travelled (from Monmouth, I think) to London after the opening of the
Great Western Railway.

Could any of your correspondents favour us with the time-bill of that coach, detailing the
length of the several stages, and the time of performance? It would also be interesting to
chronicle the period during which this rivalry with the railway was maintained.

GEO. E. FRERE.

Antecedents.--The word "antecedents," as a plural, and in the sense attached to it by the French,
is not to be found in any English dictionary that I have the means of consulting. And yet it
seems now to be commonly used as an English expression, even by some of our best writers.

When was this word first imported, and by whom? I have just met with an instance of it in Jerdan's
Autobiography, vol. i. p. 131.:

    "I got him (Hammon), with a full knowledge of his antecedents, into the
    employment of a humane and worthy wine merchant of Bordeaux."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

The Letter X.--The letter X on brewers' casks is probably thus derived:

  Simplex = single x, or X.
  Duplex = double x, or XX.
  Triplex = treble x, or XXX.

This was suggested by Owen's Epigram, lib. xii. 34.:

 "Laudatur vinum simplex, cervisia duplex,
  Est bona duplicitas, optima simplicitas."

B. H. C.

A Crow-bar.--In Johnson's Dictionary the explanation given of this word is "piece of iron used
as a lever to force open doors, as the Latins called a hook corvus." In Walters' English and
Welsh Dictionary, the first part of which was published about the year 1770, this word is printed
"Croe-bar." Is it probable that the word crow has been derived front the Camb.-Brit. word cro,
a curve? and that the name has been given from the circumstance of one end of a crow-bar being
curved for the purpose of making it more efficient as lever?

N. W. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

{440}

Minor Queries.

Bishop Grehan.--I want any information obtainable with reference to a Roman Catholic bishop
in Ireland named Grehan; his Christian name, family, date of his bishopric, and name of it.
Where can I find such particulars?

O. L. R. G.

Doxology.--In his "Christmas Caroll" to the tune of "King Solomon," old Tusser has the following:

 "To God the Son and Holy Ghost,
    Let man give thanks, rejoice, and sing,
  From world to world, from coast to coast,
    For all good gifts so many ways,
      That God doth send.
    Let us in Christ give God the praise,
      Till life shall end!"

Query, Is this the origin of our own doxologies?

L. A. M.

Great Yarmouth.

Arrow-mark.--On an ancient pump of wood, extracted from the Poltimore mine in North Devon,
I perceive a deeply cut arrow-mark. What is the inference as to the age of this relic from
the mark referred to? The fragment is that of a large oak tree hollowed out, and now decomposing
from exposure after its long burial.

J. R. P.

Gabriel Poyntz.--There is a portrait here inscribed "Gabriel Poyntz, an. Domini 1568, ætatis
suæ 36:" and having a coat of arms painted on it, Barry of eight, or and gules, with a crest
very indistinct; but apparently a lion's head, and the motto "Clainte refrainte."

Can any of your correspondents inform me of the meaning of this motto, and the language in
which it is expressed; and also what the crest is?

G. Poyntz was of South Okendon in Essex, and there is an account of his family in Morant's
Essex; from which it appears that he was descended from the family of Poyntz of Tockington
in Gloucestershire, of which there is an account in Atkins' Gloucestershire. He was afterwards
knighted.--Any information as to him, in addition to that which is contained in Morant, would
be very acceptable.

S. G. C.

Bradley, Ashbourne.

Queen Elizabeth's and Queen Anne's Motto, "Semper eadem."--Upon what occasion, and by what
authority was the motto "Semper eadem" used as the royal motto in the reign of Elizabeth?

The authority for Queen Anne's motto has been afforded by your correspondent G. (Vol. viii.,
p. 255.); though he has not fully answered the original Query (Vol. viii., p. 174.), as the
motto in question was signified to the public in the London Gazette, Dec. 21-24, 1702; was
ordered to be continued in 1707, and to be discontinued (by an order in council) on the accession
of the House of Hanover in 1714, when the old motto "Dieu et mon droit" was resumed.

Z. Z. Z.

Bees.--In these parts the increase of the apiary is known by the three following names:--The
first migration from the parent hive is (as all your country readers are aware) a swarm; the
next is called a cast; while the third increase, in the same season, goes under the name of
a cote. Perhaps some one will kindly inform me if these names are common in other parts of
England; and if there are any other local designations for the different departures of these
insect colonists.

JOHN P. STILWELL.

Dorking.

Nelly O'Brien and Kitty Fisher.--Perhaps some of the readers of "N. & Q." can tell me where
information is to be found respecting these two celebrated women, who have been immortalised
by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and whose portraits are sometimes to be met with.

"Cleopatra dissolving the Pearl" is a portrait of Kitty, and he probably introduced them both
into some of his fancy pictures.

As I happen to possess a good portrait of one of them, I should like to know something of their
history.

CANTAB.

University Club.

"Homo unius libri."--To whom does this saying ing originally belong? The British Critic gives
it to St. Thomas Aquinas:

    "When asked on one occasion who is in the way to become learned, he
    answered, 'Whoever will content himself with the reading of a single
    book."--The British Critic, No. LIX. p. 202.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

"Now the fierce bear," &c.--Can any of your readers inform me who is the author of the following
lines?

 "Now the fierce bear and leopard keen,
  All perished as they ne'er had been;
  Oblivion's their best home.
      .    .    .    .
  There is an oath on high,
  That ne'er on brow of mortal birth,
  Shall blend again the crowns of earth."

[theta].

Prejudice against Holy Confirmation.--I have found among my rural parishioners an idea very
prevalent, that it is wrong, or at least highly improper, for a married woman to become a candidate
for, or to receive holy confirmation; and this quite apart from any sectarian views on the
matter. I should like to know if any of my {441} clerical brethren have noticed the same superstition
as I must call it. Labourers' wives in some cases have at once stated their being married as
a valid objection; and in others their husbands, although Churchmen, have at once entered their
veto on their being confirmed. Can it arise from any vague reminiscence of the practical rule
of the Church of England on the subject, which has been so long ignored?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Epigram on MacAdam.--Who was the author of the following epigram?

 "My Essay on Roads, quoth MacAdam, lies there,
    The result of a life's lucubration;
  But does not the title page look rather bare?
    I long for a Latin quotation.

 "A Delphin edition of Virgil stood nigh,
    To second his classic desire;
  When the road-maker hit on the shepherd's reply,
   'Miror Magis,' I rather add-mire."

[Old English W. N.]

Jane Scrimshaw.--Can any of your numerous correspondents inform me if there is any other biographical
notice of Jane Scrimshaw, who attained the advanced age of 127, and resided for upwards of
eighty years in the Merchant Taylors' Almshouse, near Little Tower Hill, than that recorded
in Caulfield's Memoirs of Remarkable Characters?

J. T. M.

The Word "Quadrille."--May I trouble some kind reader to give me the origin, derivation, full
and literal meaning, and the several senses, in their regular succession, of the above word
Quadrille? There seems to be much uncertainty attached to the word.

VERITATIS AMICUS.

Oxon.

The Hungarians in Paules.--Perhaps some of the ingenious contributors to "N. & Q." may be able
to assist P. C. S. S. to explain the following passage in the dedication of a rare little book
Dekker's Dreame (Lond. 4to. 1620). It is inscribed:--

    "To the truly accomplished gentleman, and worthy deserver of all men's
    loves, Master Endymion Porter. Sir, if you aske why, from the heapes of
    men, I picke you out only to be that Murus ahæneus which must defend
    me, lett me tell you (what you knowe allready) that bookes are like the
    Hungarians in Paules, who have a priviledge to holde out their Turkish
    history for anie one to reade. They beg nothing: the texted past-bord
    talkes all--and if nothing be given, nothing is spoken, but God knowes
    what they thinke!"

An explanation of the above passage is very earnestly desired by

P. C. S. S.

Ferns Wanted.--Specimens of the following rare ferns are much wanted to complete a collection:--Woodsia
ilvensis, Woodsia alpina, Cystopteris montana, Lastrea cristata, Lastrea recurva, Lastrea multiflora,
Asplenium alterniflorum, Trichomanes speciosum.

The undersigned will feel very much obliged to any charitable person, residing near the habitat
of any of the above-mentioned ferns, who would take the trouble to forward to him, if not a
root, at least a specimen for drying, he need scarcely say that any expenses will be most cheerfully
defrayed.

HENRY COOPER KEY.

Stretton Rectory, near Hereford.

Craton the Philosopher.--Two of the figures on the brass font in the church of St. Bartholomew
at Liège are superscribed Johannes Evangelista et Craton Philosophus.--Can any reader of "N.
& Q." say if anything is known about the latter, who is represented as being baptized by the
Evangelist?

R. H. C.

The Solar Annual Eclipse in the Year 1263.--In the Norwegian account of Haco's expedition against
Scotland, A.D. 1263, published in the original Islandic from the Flateyan and Frisian MSS.,
with a literal English version by the Rev. James Johnstone, I read as follows:

    "While King Haco lay in Ronaldsvo, a great darkness drew over the sun;
    so that only a little ring was bright round the sun, and it continued
    so for some hours."--P. 45.

King Haco, according to the account, left Bergen on his expedition "three nights before the
'Selian' vigils ... with all his fleet," and, "having got a gentle breeze, was two nights at
sea when he reached that harbour of Shetland called Breydeyiar Sound (Bressay Sound, I presume)
with a great part of his navy." Here he remained "near half a month, and from thence sailed
to the Orkneys; and continued some time at Elidarwick, which is near Kirkwall.... After St.
Olave's wake (July 18, O. S.) King Haco, leaving Elidarwick, sailed south before the Mull of
Ronaldsha, with all the navy;" and being joined by Ronald from the Orkneys, with the ships
that had followed him, he "led the whole armament into Ronaldsha, which he left upon the vigil
of St. Lawrence (July 30, O. S.)."

Now I wish to know, 1. On what day in August this eclipse took place, the day of the week,
commencement of the eclipse, &c.

2. Whether any cotemporary, or other writer besides the Icelandic historian, has recorded this
eclipse?

S.

Fitzroy Street.

D'Israeli--how spelt?--CAUCASUS is so fortunate as to possess all the acknowledged works of
D'Israeli the elder, as published by himself. In the title-page of every one of them, the name
{442} of the elegant and accomplished author is spelt (as above) with an apostrophe. In the
late edition of his collected works, by his no less accomplished son, the name is printed without
the apostrophe. Indeed the name so appears in all the works of Mr. D'Israeli the younger; a
practice which he seems to have taken up even in the lifetime of his father, who spelt it differently.
Can any of your readers inform CAUCASUS of the reason of this difference, and of the authority
for it, and which is the correct mode? He has vainly sought for information in the Heralds'
Visitation books for Buckinghamshire, preserved in the British Museum.

CAUCASUS.

Richard Oswald.--Could any of your correspondents give me any information respecting Mr. Richard
Oswald, the commissioner who negociated the Treaty of 1782 at Paris, with Franklin, and his
other colleagues, representing the United States? Is there any obituary or biographical notice
of him in existence?

L.

Cromwell's Descendants.--Oliver Cromwell's daughter Bridget was baptized August 4, 1624; married
to Ireton January 15, 1646-7; a widow Nov. 26, 1651; married to General Fleetwood, Lord President
in Ireland, before 1652; died at Stoke, near London, 1681.--Can any of your correspondents
furnish the date of this lady's marriage with Fleetwood; also, a list of her children and grandchildren
by Fleetwood? It is supposed that Captain Fleetwood's daughter, i. e. the General's granddaughter,
married a Berry.

ERIN.

Letter of Archbishop Curwen to Archbishop Parker.--In The Hunting of the Romish Fox, collected
by Sir James Ware, and edited by Robert Ware (8vo., Dublin, 1683), there is a long account
of an image of the Saviour which, to the astonishment of the good people of Dublin, and by
the contrivance of one Father Leigh, sweated blood in the year 1559. It is added, at p. 90.:

    "The Archbishop of Dublin wrote this relation and to this effect, to
    his brother, Archbishop of Canterbury Matthew Parker, who was very
    joyful at the receipt thereof, by reason," &c.

The whole chapter in which this occurs is stated to be "taken out of the Lord Cecil's Memorials."
Can any of your readers give me assistance in finding these Memorials, or this letter to Archbishop
Parker, or a copy of it? I intended to have made it an object of inquiry and search in Dublin,
but I have been prevented accomplishing my design of visiting that country. Perhaps some of
your Irish readers may be able to help me.

JOHN BRUCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Margaret Patten.--I have just seen a curious old picture, executed at least a century ago,
and which was lately found amongst some family papers. It is a half-length of an old woman
in homely looking garments; a dark blue stuff gown, the sleeves partially rolled up, and white
sleeving protruding from under, not unlike the fashion of to-day; a white and blue checked
apron; around her neck a white tippet and a handkerchief, on her head a "mutch," or close linen
cap, and a lace or embroidered band across her forehead to hide the absence of hair. She holds
something undistinguishable in one hand.

