THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 13, No. 368.] SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLARENDON HOUSE, PICCADILLY.

The virtuous and uncompromising chancellor, the Earl of Clarendon, had a splendid mansion facing
the upper end of St. James's-street, on the site of the present Grafton-street. Of this princely
pile, the above is an accurate engraving. It was built by Clarendon with the stone intended
for the rebuilding of St. Paul's. "He purchased the materials," says Pennant, "but a nation
soured with an unsuccessful war, with fire, and with pestilence, imputed everything as a crime
to this great and envied character; his enemies called it Dunkirk House, calumniating him with
having built it with the money arising from the sale of that town, which had just before been
given up to the French, for a large sum, by his Master."

It is true that Clarendon built this mansion in a season of discontent; but so sensible was
he of his vanity and imprudence in building so large a house, and of the envy it drew upon
him, that he afterwards apologized for the act; which he declares, so far exceeded the proposed
expense, as to add greatly to the embarrassment of his affairs.

This mansion cost £50,000. and 300 men were employed in the building. It was purchased from
his lordship by George Monk, Duke of Albemarle, and afterwards by another nobleman, inferior
indeed in abilities, but not inferior in virtues. In 1670, James, Duke of Ormond, resided at
Clarendon House; and on his way thither, he was one day dragged out of his coach by the infamous
Blood and his associates, who intended to hang his Grace at Tyburn, in revenge for justice
done, under his administration in Ireland, on some of their companions. "This refinement in
revenge," says Pennant, "saved the duke's life; he had leisure to disengage himself from the
villain on horseback, to whom he was tied; by which time he was discovered by his servants,
and rescued from death."

The original of our Engraving was copied from a rare print, which, in the year 1790, was in
the collection of Thomas Allen, Esq. Appended to the former is a section, showing the relative
situation of Clarendon House, which was taken from a map of London (supposed to be unique)
in an illustrated Clarendon's History, in the possession of John Charles Crowle, Esq. By the
section, the entrance-gate to the court-yard of the house appears to have been in Piccadilly,
in a direct line with St. James's Street, and the grounds to have extended to Bruton Street
at the back, where there was likewise a communication. The site of the front gate is now, therefore,
the commencement of Albemarle Street, named after one of the distinguished occupants of Clarendon
House.

Notwithstanding the revolutions of time and fashion in this quarter, the illustrious name of
the founder of Clarendon House is still preserved in the "Clarendon Hotel," which occupies
a portion of the original ground already described. One of the changes is, that instead of
the Chancellor meditating upon his dismissal from office, which his very virtues and stately
dignity, and a weak king, and a more wicked and envious faction had brought about,--we have
well-living twos and fours hob-nobbing over Chateau-Margaux, or yielding to the delightful
inspirations of Ay Champagne. Not a few more of the good things of this great town are assembled
near the same spot. Albemarle Street has many first-rate hotels, and two handsome club-houses;
while on the Bond Street side of the quadrangle are two or three extensive libraries, an immense
porcelain repository, and a score of fashionable artistes. What idle delights are all these
compared with the wisdom and virtue which once dwelt on the same spot. But had Clarendon lived
to see Crockford's splendid subscription-house rise after a golden shower, in St. James's Street,
(and this he might have done from the front-windows of Clarendon House) he would, perhaps,
have given us an extra volume of Essays. We would that he had so lived, if only that his sublime
truths might thus nave been multiplied for the good of mankind, if not for the weak heads of
St. James's Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GLANCIN' E'E.

  Oh lassie tell me can'st thou lo'e,
    I hae gaz'd upon thy glancin' e'e;
  It soars aboon, it rolls below,
    But, ah, it never rests on me.

  Oh lassie I hae socht the hour
    When pity wak'nin' lo'e might be,
  Tell my sair heart a gauldin' flower
    Has droopit in thy glancin' e'e.

  Oh lassie, turn not sae awa'
    Disdainfu', gie na death to me;
  Does pity mark the tears that fa'?
    Exhale them wi' thy glancin' e'e.

C.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

(For the Mirror.)

"There is a voice from the grave sweeter than song."--Washington Irving.

  Illustrious dead! one tributary sigh,
  In that great temple where the mighty lie,
  I breath'd for you--a magic charm was there
  Where rest the great and good, the wise and fair;
  Their glittering day of fame has had its close
  And beauty, genius, grandeur, there repose.
  Immortal names! kings, queens, and statesmen rise
  In marble forms before the gazer's eyes.
  Cold, pale, and silent, down each lessening aisle
  They clustering stand, and mimic life awhile.
  The warrior chief, in sculptur'd beauty dies,
  And in Fame's clasping arms for ever lies.
  "Each in his place of state," the rivals stand,
  The senators, who saved a sinking land;
  Majestic, graceful,--each with "lips apart"
  Whose eloquence subdued and won the heart.
  Pitt! round thy name how bright a halo burns,
  When memory to thy day of glory turns;
  And views thee in life's bright meridian lie,
  And victim to thy patriot spirit die!
  Round Fox's tomb, what forms angelic weep,
  And ever watch that chill and marble sleep!
  Silence, how eloquent! how deep--profound--
  She holds her reign above the hallow'd ground.
  Here sceptred monarchs in death's slumbers lie,
  Tudors, Plantagenets--they too could die!
  Beneath a 'scutcheon'd arch, with banners spread,
  Unhappy, murdered, Richard rests his head.
  While Pomfret's walls in "ruin greenly tell,"
  How fought the brave and how the noble fell!
  Pale rose of York! thy sanguine rival rears
  Full many a tomb, and many a trophy bears.
  But who lies here? in marble lovely still,
  Here let me pause, and fancy take her fill.
  Poor ill-starr'd Mary; Melancholy gloom
  And fond regrets are waking o'er thy tomb.
  Bright was thy morn of promise, dark the day,
  That clos'd thy fate in murderous Fotheringay!
  How near thee lies that "bright star of the west,"
  Elizabeth, of queens the wisest, best;
  Her "lion port," and her imperial brow,
  The dark grey stone essays in vain to show.
  Ye royal rivals of a former day,
  How has your love and hatred pass'd away!
  To future times how faint the voice of fame,
  For greatness here but "stalks an empty name."
  Around, above, how sorrow builds her throne,
  To snatch from death's embrace each treasure gone.
  See, how the horrid phantom bends his bow,
  And points his dart to lay that victim low![1]
  She sinks, she falls, and her fond husband's breast
  Is the cold pillow to that marble rest!
  But softly tread upon the sacred ground,
  Where Britain's bards lie sepulchred round.
  Sons of the muse, who woke the magic spell,
  From the deep windings of "Apollo's shell!"
  Mute is each lyre, their silent strings are bound
  With willow, yew, and cypress wreath'd around.
  Their hopes, joys, sorrows, rest within the grave
  Admiring nations to their relics gave.
  Hail, mighty shades! bright spirits of the past;
  Here may your ashes sleep while time shall last.
  Let kindred genius shed the pensive tear,
  And grace with votive elegy each bier.
  While far beyond this melancholy vale,
  When faded sorrow tells her mournful tale,
  "O'er this dim spot of earth," in regions fair
  Your spirits dwell, and joys eternal share.

    [1] The tomb of Mrs. Nightingale.

Kirton Lindsey.

ANNIE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TIMES NEWSPAPER.

We are not about to write an advertisement for this advertised of all advertisers--nor to talk
of its square feet--its crowded broadside--or the myriads of letters that make it resemble
a sea of animalculae. We are content to leave all the pride of its machinery to Messrs. Applegath
and Cowper, and the clang of its engine to the peaceful purlieus of Printing-house Square.
Yet these are interesting items in the advancement of science, and in the history of mankind;
for whether taken mechanically or morally, the Times is, without exception, the newspaper of
all newspapers, "the observed of all observers" and altogether, the most extraordinary production
of this or any other age.

But we are more anxious to reach what may be called the philosophy of a newspaper--that broad
volume of human life, in which "the follies, vices, and consequent miseries of multitudes are
displayed." To prove this, only let the reader glance over the twenty-four columns of a Times
newspaper, and attempt a calculation of the many thousand events that spring from and are connected
with their contents. Yet this sheet is but as it were a day in the life of man--a mere thread
of the mingled yarn of his existence--and 313 such sheets, or 1,252 such folios make but a
year of his history. The subject is too vast and comprehensive for continued contemplation,
for it is like all other wheels of vicissitude; we become giddy by looking too steadfastly
on its twinings.

Let us take one side of any recent Times newspaper--say that of Thursday last--and attempt
something like an abstract of its memorabilia. This may appear for us a toilsome task, but
if the reader be not fatigued also, our time will not be misspent. Begin "at the beginning"
with the old English title, broken by the royal arms--like a blocking-course; and the No. and
date in a sort of typographical entablature. The first side is filled by 188 advertisements,
for the most part, classed according to their objects.

Thus, we start, and not unappropriately, with notices of vessels to sail for India and the
new settlement on Swan River. What temptations for adventure and avarice--what associations
of industry and indolence--luxury and squalid misery--do these announcements create in the
reflective mind. The nabob in his chintz--the speculator with his last hundred--and the half-starved
agriculturist--are but sorry portraits beside the class to whom the next notice is addressed.--Packets
to Calais, Dieppe, and Margate--necessity on her last leg, and luxury on the fantastic toe--the
wasted mind and famished visage beside hoyden mirth and bloated luxury. Then the South American
Mining Association Deed "lies for signature:"--what a relief in this sheet of chiaro-scuro--a
kind of tinsel to set off its grave parts, with gold dust enough to blind half its readers.
To this little flash of golden light succeeds shade--Chancery and creditors' notices--proving
debts and consciences--followed by civil contracts for Bridewell and building a Lunatic Asylum
in Kent. The association is too obvious, and verily, the maker-up of the Times newspaper is
a Hogarth in his way; for what Hogarth did with pencil and brush, he does with metallic types.
Next is a Saw Mill to be sold cheap, constructed for the express purpose of being sent to the
Swan River settlement--how fortunate--for surely any idle wight would make his way with such
assistance, especially as the machine is "on improved principles." Luxury again--paper-hangings,
French lamps, and French roses--necessity again--Money on mortgage, and bills discounted: how
obvious the connexion--the very cause and effect--the lamps will not burn without oil, and
the roses will not bloom without money--at least they will only waste their fragrance in the
desert air of the nursery-ground.

The second column begins with a solicitor's inquiry for a person long unheard of, who, if alive,
"may hear of somewhat very considerably to his advantage"--any person proving his death, shall
be rewarded. Next is a notice from the City Chamber Court of Stralsund, of a man who has been
missing twenty years, and unless he informs the court of his existence on or before Lady-day,
1830, he will be declared dead--poor fellow--yet how many would rejoice at such an opportunity
of escaping from their worldly cares. Next comes a little string of Anniversaries of Charities--followed
by Exhibitions of the Fine Arts--had their position been reversed, the effect would have been
better; for fine painting prepares the heart for acts of benevolence, and kindleth all its
best feelings. Portraits of the Rev. Matthew Wilks and Pope Pius VII. (the latter a splendid
mezzotinto from Sir T. Lawrence's picture) are followed by a "Speaking French Grammar," a very
good companion for any Englishman about to visit the continent; for with many, their stock
of French does not last out their cash. Next is fourteen years of the Morning Post to be sold--a
bargain for a fashionable novelist, and in fact, a complete stock-in-trade for any court or
town Adonis; a perfect vocabulary of fashion, detailing the rise and progress of all the fashionable
arts since the peace--the gazette appointments and disappointments--and elopements and faux
pas, sufficient for all the comedy-writers of the present century--the respective claims of
Spanish Refugees and Spitalfields Weavers--charitable concerts and opera benefits--and all
the lumber and light artillery of the grand monde.

The third column is almost entirely occupied by "Wanted" advertisements and we had resolved
to pass over all their "Wants;" had not some of them occurred to us as rather singular, even
in these times of general distress. The first of these is for a respectable middle-aged woman,
as lady's maid--"to understand dress-making, millinery, hair-dressing, getting-up fine linen,
and to be useful and obliging." All this is reasonable enough; but mark the inducement: "a
clever person fond of the country, and who can bear confinement, will find this a comfortable
situation!" "This is too much." Another is for a butler and a valet, to "undertake the care
and responsibility of a numerous family:" another is a young man for "a situation in any shop
or warehouse, not particular what:" another of "a nurse, who can cut and make children's dresses,
and instruct them in reading and spelling;" a school-assistant "to fill the second desk," &c.
Next come a few characteristics of a scientific age--as patent trouser-straps, to "prevent
the dirt getting between the strap and the boot, &c.;" and patent springs for waistcoat backs--to
cause the clothes to fit well to the shape, &c.--and, above all, a legitimate, scientific Diaphane
parasol.

The "Wants" are resumed in the fourth column. One is a young man to be able to walk well; "it
is immaterial what he has been accustomed to."

In the fourth column we find "a family grave to be sold, unused for nearly 50 years at that
period, but partly occupied. To save trouble, price 25l." Another advertisement--"to small
capitalists" is a perfect puzzle; for the advertiser will not describe the "ready-money concern"
to be disposed of, but says, "the principal article of sale is what is consumed, either in
a greater or less degree, by almost every individual." Next is a tallowchandler's business
in a situation which "will command an extensive trade immediately the new Fleet Market is erected"--rather
anticipatory, to be sure. Another, "worthy of notice," offers for 260 guineas, seven houses,
which cost 800 in building--a tolerable speculation.

The last column commences with a fine brown gelding, (like most friends) parted with for no
fault, free from vice, although, "a trial will be granted." Another announces for sale, several
"bays, greys, roans, creams, and duns:" a chaise "parted with for no other fault than the present
owner having purchased a four-wheeled one;" and "a house near the church, commanding extensive
and pleasing prospects."

The fourth folio, or side of the paper, is nearly filled with advertisements of sales by auction,
a single glance at which would convince us of the instability of human affairs, even if we
did not read in one corner, of a theatrical wardrobe, containing five splendid new court dresses,
trimmed with gold and silver (except the pockets,) and 52 very fine wigs.

The inner, or second and third folios of the paper, present still finer studies for our reflection.
The eye almost instinctively lights on the "Foreign Papers," detailing the progress of war
and the balance of power--Francfort Fair, and English manufactures. Below is the well-known
graphic relief--a clock, and two opened and one closed book, with "The Times"--past and future,
decorated with oak and laurel. Then come the theatrical announcements teeming with novelty
and attraction, which stand like the sauces, savoury dishes, and sweetmeats of the day's repast.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS.

       *       *       *       *       *

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

The following song is said to be the most ancient in the English language, and to have been
written so early as the year 1250, almost a century before Geoffrey Chaucer, (who is styled
the father of English poetry,) produced his Court of Love, which was written at the early age
of eighteen.

CHAS. COLE.

THE CUCCU.

Glossary--Sumer, summer--icumen, a coming--lhude, loud--sed, seed--med, mead--wde, wood--nu,
new--awe, ewe--lomb, lamb--lhouth, loweth--cu, cow--murie, merry--singes, sing'st--thu, thou--Ne
swik thu naver, May'st thou never cease.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAY DAY.

It would seem that among our Pagan ancestors, before the introduction of Christianity, the
first day of May was the great festival in honour of the sun, and that fires were then kindled
and rejoicings made, in honour of that great luminary. The first day of May is still called
Beltan, or Baal-tein, "the fire of Baal." In some parts of the country the shepherds still
make festivals of milk and eggs on that day, but the custom is rapidly declining. In the Highlands
the festival is still continued with singular ceremonies. There is little doubt but that such
inhuman sacrifices were once offered in this country as well as in the east; although the act
of sacrifice is now dispensed with, the devoted person being only compelled to leap three times
through the flames, with which the ceremony of the festival is closed.

FHAOLAIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABORIGINES OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.

So little is known of these children of nature, and still less has been done to gain any knowledge
of them, that not much can be offered as to their present numbers or condition. From what I
have seen and read, the natives of Van Dieman's Land are unlike any other Indians, either in
features, their mode of living, hunting, &c. There are many hundreds of people who have lived
for years in the colony, and yet have never seen a native. ... The features of these people
are any thing but pleasing: a large flat nose, with immense nostrils; lips particularly thick;
a wide mouth, with a tolerably good set of teeth; the hair long and woolly, which, as if to
confer additional beauty, is besmeared with red clay (similar to our red ochre) and grease.
Their limbs are badly proportioned; the women appear to be generally better formed than the
men. Their only covering is a few kangaroo skins, rudely stitched, and thrown over the shoulders;
but more frequently they appear in a state of nudity; indeed, so little knowledge have they
of decency or comfort, that they never avail themselves of the purposes for which apparel is
given to them. Lieut. Collins, in his account of the natives of New South Wales, describes
their marriage ceremonies as being most barbarous and brutal; and I have also heard from individuals
who have visited New South Wales, that it is not uncommon to see a poor woman almost beaten
to death by her lover, previous to his marrying her. From the shyness of the natives of Van
Dieman's Land, and the constant warfare that has been carried on between them and the remote
stock-keepers, (which is not likely to render them more familiar,) I have never been able to
ascertain whether there is any trace of religion among them, or if they have the slightest
idea of a Supreme Being. I believe, and it is generally supposed, they have not. It is but
fair to remark, however, that nothing has been done for them; the few that can speak a little
English, only curse and swear, and this they catch up very readily from the different convicts
they meet with.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are but few instances of any native having entirely forsaken his tribe, however young
he may have been taken away; they appear to dislike any thing in the shape of labour, although,
if they take to cattle, they are, beyond any thing, quick in tracing and finding those lost.
So acute is their power of discrimination, that they have been known to trace the footsteps
of bush-rangers over mountains and rocks; and, although the individual they have been in pursuit
of has walked into the sides of the river as if to cross it, to elude the vigilance of his
pursuers, and has swam some distance down and crossed when convenient, yet nothing can deceive
them. Indeed, so remarkable is their discernment, that if but the slightest piece of moss on
a rock has been disturbed by footsteps, they will instantly detect it. The aborigines of this
island have no appointed place or situation to live in; they roam about at will, followed by
a pack of dogs, of different sorts and sizes, but which are used principally for hunting the
kangaroo, oppossum, bandicoot, &c. They are passionately fond of their dogs; so much so, that
the females are frequently known to suckle a favourite puppy instead of the child. They rarely
ever move at night, but encircle themselves round a large fire, and sleep in a sitting posture,
with their heads between their knees. So careless are they of their children, that it is not
uncommon to see boys grown up with feet exhibiting the loss of a toe or two, having, when infants,
been dropped into the fire by the mother. The children are generally carried (by the women)
astride across the shoulders, in a careless manner. They live entirely by hunting, and do not
fish so much, or use the canoe, as in New South Wales, although the women are tolerably expert
divers; the craw-fish and oyster, if immediately on the coast, are their principal food. Oppossums
and kangaroos may be said to be their chief support; the latter is as delicious a treat to
an epicure, as the former is the reverse. The manner of cooking their victuals is by throwing
it on the fire, merely to singe off the hair; they eat voraciously, and are very little removed
from the brute creation as to choice of food; entrails, &c. sharing the same chance as the
choicest parts. They are extremely expert in climbing, and can reach the top of the largest
forest-trees without the aid of branches; they effect this by means of a small sharp flint,
which they clasp tightly in the ball of their four fingers, and having cut a notch out of the
bark, they easily ascend, with the large toe of each foot in one notch, and their curiously
manufactured hatchet in the other. Their weapons of defence are the spear and waddie; the former
is about twelve feet long, and as thick as the little finger of a man; the tea-tree supplies
them with this matchless weapon; they harden one end, which is very sharply pointed, by burning
and filing it with a flint prepared for the purpose. In throwing the spear they are very expert;
indeed, of late, their audacious atrocities have been lamentably great, although, at the same
time, I have little hesitation in saying, they have arisen from the cruel treatment experienced
by some of their women from the hands of the distant stock-keepers. Indeed, these poor mortals,
I know, have been shot at merely to gratify a most barbarous cruelty....

After killing a white man, the natives have a sort of dance and rejoicing, jumping, and singing,
and sending forth the strangest noises ever heard. They do not molest the body when dead, nor
have I ever heard of their stripping or robbing the deceased. Among themselves they have no
funeral rites; and those who are aged or diseased are left in hollow trees, or under the ledges
of rocks, to pine and die. These people are subject to a disease, which causes the most loathsome
ulcerated sores; two or three whom I saw were wretched-looking objects. I remember a very old
man, who was thus affected, being tried and hung, for spearing one of Mr. Hart's men; the culprit
was so ill and infirm as to be obliged to be carried to the place of execution. I think the
colonial surgeons call the disease the "bush scab;" and that it is occasioned by a filthy mode
of life. The population of natives is very small in proportion to the extent of the island:
several causes may be alleged for their smallness of numbers; the principal one is their having
been driven about from place to place, by settlers taking new locations; another cause is the
great destruction of the kangaroo, which obliges the natives to labour hard to procure food
sufficient for their sustenance: this, and their having no means of procuring vegetables, besides
being constantly exposed to the weather, together with their offensive habits of living, produce
the disease above mentioned, with its fatal consequences. Widdowson's Van Dieman's Land.

Retrospective Gleanings.

OLD ROSE.

Walton, in his "Angler," makes the hunter, in the second chapter, propose that they shall sing
"Old Rose," which is presumed to refer to the ballad, "Sing, old Rose, and burn the bellows,"
of which every one has heard, but much trouble has been taken, in vain, to find a copy of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUCTIONS.

Elihu Yale was remarkable for his auctions. The first of these was about the year 1700. He
had brought such quantities of goods from India, that, finding no one house large enough to
stow them in, he had a public sale of the over-plus; and that was the first auction of the
kind in England.

       *       *       *       *       *

LILLY, THE ASTROLOGER.

While this impudent cheat is ridiculed for his absurdities, let him have credit for as lucky
a guess as ever blessed the pages even of "Francis Moore, physician."

This is the prediction which, in 1666, led to his being examined by a Committee of the House
of Commons; not, as has been supposed, that he might "discover by the stars who were the authors
of the Fire of London," but because the precision with which he was thought to have foretold
the event, gave birth to a suspicion that he was already acquainted with them, and privy to
the (supposed) machinations which had brought about the catastrophe. Curran says, there are
two kind of prophets, those who are really inspired, and those who prophesy events which they
intend themselves to bring about. Upon this occasion, poor Lilly had the ill-luck to be deemed
one of the latter class.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHIGS AND TORIES.

Whenever these terms were first introduced, and whatever might be their original meaning, it
is certain that in the reign of Charles the Second they carried the political signification
which they still retain. Take, as a proof, the following nervous passage from Dryden's Epilogue
to "The Duke of Guise," 1683:

  "Damn'd neuters, in their middle way of steering,
  Are neither fish, nor flesh, nor good red herring:
  Nor whigs, nor Tories they; nor this nor that;
  Not birds, not beasts, but just a kind of bat:
  A twilight animal, true to neither cause,
  With Tory wings, but Whiggish teeth and claws."

       *       *       *       *       *

OTWAY'S "CAIUS MARIUS."

When poor Otway's "unpardonable piracy," in taking part of this play from "Romeo and Juliet,"
was reprobated so severely, the critic might have done him the justice to mention, that, instead
of attempting to pass off the borrowed beauties as his own, he, in the prologue, fully avowed
his obligations. It contains an animated eulogy on Shakspeare, which thus concludes:--

  "Though much the most unworthy of the throng,
  Our this day's poet fears he's done him wrong.
  Like greedy beggars, that steal sheaves away,
  You'll find he's rifled him of half a play;
  Among his baser dross you'll see it shine,
  Most beautiful, amazing, and divine."

       *       *       *       *       *

NANCY DAWSON

Was a dancer at Covent Garden Theatre, previous to the accession of his late majesty; and in
1760 transferred her services to the other house. On the 23rd of September, in that year, the
"Beggar's Opera" was performed at Drury Lane, when the play-bill thus announced her: "In Act
III, a hornpipe by Miss Dawson, her first appearance here."--It seems she was engaged to oppose
Mrs. Vernon in the same exhibition at the rival house. That her performance of it was somewhat
celebrated, may be inferred from the circumstance of there being a full-length print of her
in it.--Gentleman's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELIC OF JOHN BUNYAN.

The cut represents the vessel from which John Bunyan, the author of that popular allegory,
"the Pilgrim's Progress," was accustomed to drink syllabub, during his incarceration in Bedford
County Gaol. The original is in the possession of the correspondent who has furnished us with
the sketch for the engraver. It is of common earthen-ware, 7-1/2 inches in height, and will
contain 3-1/2 pints; one of the handles is partly broken off; the glaze is of a light flesh
tint; and the vessel is a fair specimen of pottery in the early part of the seventeenth century.

Bunyan, it will be recollected, was born in 1628, at Elstow, near Bedford, where the cottage
stood in its original state till within these few years. It has latterly been new fronted,
but the interior remains nearly as in Bunyan's time. He was the son of a tinker, and followed
his father's trade; and at Elstow are the remains of a closet in which, in early life, he carried
on business. During the civil war he served as a soldier in the parliament army; and subsequently
joined a society of Anabaptists at Bedford, and became their public teacher. Soon after the
Restoration, he was indicted for "abstaining from coming to church," and holding "unlawful
meetings and conventicles," for which he was sentenced to transportation, which was not executed,
as he was detained in prison upwards of twelve years, and at last liberated through the charitable
interposition of Dr. Barlow, Bishop of Lincoln.

Sir Richard Phillips, in his recent "Personal Tour," says, "on inquiring for relics of honest
Bunyan, I was introduced to Mr. Hilyard, the present amiable and exemplary pastor of the large
Independent Congregation, which 150 years since was under the spiritual care of Bunyan. Mr.
H. at his meeting-house, showed me the vestry-chair of Bunyan; and the present pulpit is that
in which Bunyan used to preach. At his own house he preserves the records of the establishment,
many pages of which are in a neat and very scholastic hand by Bunyan, and contain many of his
signatures."

Bunyan's imprisonment gave rise to "The Pilgrim's Progress," a work, which like "Robinson Crusoe,"
has remained unrivalled amidst a host of imitators. He was too, a wit as well as a preacher.
Towards the close of his imprisonment a Quaker called on him, probably to make a convert of
the author of the Pilgrim. He thus addressed him:--"Friend John, I am come to thee with a message
from the Lord; and after having searched for thee in half the prisons in England, I am glad
that I have found thee at last." "If the Lord had sent you," sarcastically replied Bunyan,
"you need not have taken so much pains, for the Lord knows that I have been a prisoner in Bedford
Gaol for these twelve years past."

       *       *       *       *       *

SKELETON OF AN ELEPHANT.

The bones of poor Chunee, the stupendous elephant shot at Exeter 'Change, in 1826, have, at
a considerable expense, been accurately articulated, and the entire skeleton is now exhibiting
in one of the chambers at "the Egyptian Hall," in Piccadilly. We remember the interest, the
"sensation," which the death of Chunee occasioned: it was a fertile incident--for we gave an
engraving of the enormous deceased in his den at Exeter 'Change. It is little more than three
years since, and probably in three years more, Chunee will figure in books of Natural History,
and Exeter 'Change in the antiquarian's portfolio.

We recommend the Naturalist and all such as delight in contemplating sublime objects of nature,
to see this skeleton; and there can scarcely be an exhibition better calculated to impress
the youthful mind with the vastness of creation. It stands nearly 13 feet high, and the clear
space beneath the ribs is 6 feet.

It would, we think, suit the Zoological Society, and make a fine nucleus for their Museum.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL VISITS TO THE THEATRES.

When the King visited the Opera in 1821, the preparations cost upwards of £300. The ante-room
and the box were hung with satin, and festoons of gold lace.

When his Majesty visited Covent Garden Theatre in 1823, there were 4,255 persons present, and
the receipts were £971. 18s. 6d.--Companion to the Theatres.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

EMIGRATION.

NEW COLONY ON SWAN RIVER.

We have abridged the following very important and interesting information respecting the New
Settlement on the Western Coast of Australia, from the last Number of the Quarterly Review.
The writer appears to have profited by access to official sources, and thus enhanced the value
of his paper; but, disposed as we are, generally, to coincide with his views on the subject
of Emigration, we do not think it necessary to detail them in this place. We have, however,
retained the "Regulations," as issued from the Colonial Office, and made occasional quotations
from Captain Stirling's Report; besides availing ourselves of a pamphlet lately published,
entitled "Hints on Emigration to the New Settlement on the Swan and Canning Rivers."[2] The
Report of Mr. Fraser, the government botanical surveyor, from Sydney, who accompanied Captain
Stirling, is not so easy of access. The Quarterly writer, by some coincident opinions and references,
appears to be acquainted with the above pamphlet, although it is not mentioned in the review.
The official Regulations are as follow:--

1. His majesty's government do not intend to incur any expense in conveying settlers to the
New Colony on the Swan River; and will not feel bound to defray the expense of supplying them
with provisions or other necessaries, after their arrival there, nor to assist their removal
to England, or elsewhere, should they be desirous of quitting the Colony.

2. Such persons who may arrive in that settlement before the end of the year 1830, will receive,
in the order of their arrival, grants of land, free of quit rent, proportioned to the capital
which they may be prepared to invest in the improvement of the land, and of which capital they
maybe able to produce satisfactory proofs to the Lieutenant Governor (or other officer administering
the Colonial Government,) or to any two officers of the Local Government appointed by the Lieutenant
Governor for that purpose, at the rate of forty acres for every sum of three pounds which they
may be prepared so to invest.

3. Under the head of investment of capital will be considered stock of every description, all
implements of husbandry, and other articles which may be applicable to the purposes of productive
industry, or which may be necessary for the establishment of the settler on the land where
he is to be located. The amount of any half-pay or pension which the applicant may receive
from Government, will also be considered as so much capital.

4. Those who may incur the expense of taking out labouring persons, will be entitled to an
allowance of land at the rate of fifteen pounds, that is, of two hundred acres of land, for
the passage of every such labouring person, over and above any other investment of capital.
In the class of "labouring persons," are included women, and children above ten years old.
Provision will be made by law, at the earliest opportunity for rendering those capitalists,
who may be engaged in taking out labouring persons to this settlement, liable for the future
maintenance of those persons, should they, from infirmity, of any other cause, become unable
to maintain themselves there.

5. The license of occupation of land will be granted to the settler, on satisfactory proof
being exhibited to the Lieutenant Governor (or other officer administering the Local Government,)
of the amount of property brought into the colony. The proofs required of such property will
be such satisfactory vouchers of expenses as would be received in auditing public accounts.
But the full title to the land will not be granted in fee simple, until the settler has proved,
(to the satisfaction of the Lieutenant Governor for other officer administering the Local Government,)
that the sum required by Article 2 of these regulations (viz. one shilling and sixpence per
acre) has been expended in the cultivation of the land, or in solid improvements, such as buildings,
roads, or other works of the kind.

6. Any grant of land thus allotted, of which a fair proportion, of at least one fourth, shall
not have been brought into cultivation, otherwise improved or reclaimed from its wild state,
to the extent of one shilling and sixpence per acre, to the satisfaction of the Local Government,
within three years from the date of the license of occupation, shall, at the end of three years,
be liable to a payment of sixpence per acre, into the public chest of the settlement; and,
at the expiration of seven years more, should the land still remain in an uncultivated or unimproved
state, it will revert absolutely to the crown.

7. After the year 1830, land will be disposed of to those settlers who may resort to the colony,
on such conditions as his Majesty's Government shall see occasion to adopt.

8. It is not intended that any convicts, or other description of prisoners, be transported
to this new settlement.

