The petals (if they may be so called), which render this flower so pleasingly distinct, are
arranged in an even tuft, being much shorter than the outer or normal sepals, the size and
form of which remain true to the type. The pure white flower--more than an inch across--is
somewhat distant from the handsome three-leaved involucrum, and is supported by a wiry flower
stalk, 3in. to 5in. long; it is about the same length from the root, otherwise the plant is
stemless. The flowers are produced singly, and have six to eight petal-like sepals; the leaves
are ternately cut; leaflets or segments three-cut, lanceolate, and deeply toothed; petioles
channelled; the roots are long and round, of about the thickness of a pen-holder. This plant
grown in bold clumps is indispensable for the choice spring garden; its quiet beauty is much
admired.

It enjoys a strongish loam, and a slightly shaded situation will conduce to its lengthened
flowering, and also tend to luxuriance. Soon after the flowers fade the foliage begins to dry
up; care should, therefore, be taken to have some other suitable flower growing near it, so
as to avoid dead or blank spaces. Pentstemons, rooted cuttings of which are very handy at this
season for transplanting, are well adapted for such use and situations, and as their flowers
cannot endure hot sunshine without suffering more or less, such half-shady quarters will be
just the places for them.

The double white Wood Anemone may be propagated by divisions of the tubers, after the foliage
has completely withered.

Flowering period, May.

Anemone Pulsatilla.

PASQUE FLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

A British species. This beautiful flower has long been cultivated in our gardens, and is deservedly
a great favourite. It may not be uninteresting to give the other common and ancient names of
the Easter Flower, as in every way this is not only an old plant, but an old-fashioned flower.
"Passe Flower" and "Flaw Flower" come from the above common names, being only derivations,
but in Cambridgeshire, where it grows wild, it is called "Coventry Bells" and "Hill Tulip."
Three hundred years ago Gerarde gave the following description of it, which, together with
the illustration (Fig. 9), will, I trust, be found ample: "These Passe flowers hath many small
leaues, finely cut or iagged, like those of carrots, among which rise up naked stalks, rough
and hairie; whereupon do growe beautiful flowers bell fashion, of a bright delaied purple colour;
in the bottome whereof groweth a tuft of yellow thrums, and in the middle of the thrums thrusteth
foorth a small purple pointell; when the whole flower is past, there succeedeth an head or
knoppe, compact of many graie hairie lockes, and in the solide parts of the knops lieth the
seede flat and hoarie, euery seed having his own small haire hanging at it. The roote is thick
and knobbie of a finger long, and like vnto those of the anemones (as it doth in all other
parts verie notablie resemble) whereof no doubt this is a kinde."

This flower in olden times was used for making garlands, and even now there are few flowers
more suitable for such purpose; it varies much in colour, being also sometimes double. It may
be grown in pots for window decoration or in the open garden; it likes a dry situation and
well-drained soil of a calcareous nature. In these respects it differs widely from many of
the other species of Windflower, yet I find it to do well in a collection bed where nearly
twenty other species are grown, and where there are both shade and more moisture than in the
open parts of the garden. It may be propagated by division of the strong root-limbs, each of
which should have a portion of the smaller roots on them. Soon after flowering is a good time
to divide it.

Flowering period, March to May.

Anemone Stellata.

STAR WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This gay spring flower (Fig. 10) comes to us from Italy, but that it loves our dull climate
is beyond doubt, as it not only flowers early, but continues for a long time in beauty. A.
hortensis is another name for it, and there are several varieties of the species, which mostly
vary only in the colours of the flowers, as striped, white and purple. The typical form, as
illustrated, is seen to be a quaint little plant; its flowers are large, of a shining light
purple colour, and star-shaped; the dwarf foliage is of the well-known crowfoot kind. When
grown in bold clumps it is richly effective, and, like most other Anemones, is sure to be admired.

It thrives well in a light loam and in slight shade; I have tried it in pots kept in cold frames,
where it flowers in mid-winter. It would doubtless make a showy appearance in a cool greenhouse.
To propagate it, the roots should be divided after the tops have died down in summer.

Flowering period, February to June, according to position and time of planting.

Anemone Sulphurea.

SULPHUR-COLOURED WINDFLOWER; Syn. A. APIIFOLIA; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is a grandly beautiful Windflower from Central Europe. The names, combined with the illustration
(Fig. 11), must fail to give the reader a proper idea of its beauty; the specific name in reference
to the colour falls far short, and cannot give a hint of its handsome form and numerous finely-coloured
stamens; and the drawing can in no way illustrate the hues and shell-like substance of the
sepals; there is also a softness and graceful habit about the foliage, that the name, apiifolia
(parsley-leaved), does not much help the reader to realise. It may be parsley-like foliage
in the comparative sense and in relation to that of other Anemones, but otherwise it can hardly
be said to be like parsley. It is said by some to be only a variety of A. alpina; if so, it
is not only a distinct but an unvarying form, so much so that by others it is held to be a
species; the line of difference in many respects seems so far removed, even granting it to
be a variety (as in hundreds of similar cases), as to warrant a specific title. It may be more
interesting to state that it is a lovely and showy flower, and that the shortest cut to an
enjoyment of its beauties is to grow it.

The flowers are 2in. to 2½in. across when expanded, but usually they are cup-shaped. The six
sepals are egg-shaped but pointed, of much substance, and covered with a silky down on the
outside, causing them to have changeable hues according to the play of wind and light. The
stamens are very numerous, the anthers being closely arranged and of a rich golden colour;
the flower stems grow from 9in. to 18in. high, being terminated by one flower; it carries a
large and handsome involucre of three leaves, a little higher than the middle of the stem,
and just overtopping the radical leaves, umbrella fashion; the leaves of the involucre are
like those of the root, but stalkless. The radical leaves are stalked, well thrown out, drooping,
and over 1ft. long, ternate and villous; the leaflets are pinnatifid and deeply toothed.

This desirable plant is of the easiest culture, thriving in common garden soil, but it prefers
that of a rich vegetable character and a situation not over dry. The flowers are persistent
under any conditions, and they are further preserved when grown under a little shade, but it
should only be a little.

For propagation see A. decapetala.

Flowering period, May and June.

There are two other allied kinds which not only much resemble this, but which flower at or
near the same time--viz., A. alpina and A. decapetala, which see.

Anemone Sylvestris.

SNOWDROP A.; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This hardy herbaceous species comes from Germany, but it has been grown nearly 300 years in
this country, It is distinct, showy, and beautiful; it ranks with "old-fashioned" flowers.
Of late this Windflower has come into great favour, as if for a time it had been forgotten;
still, it is hard to make out how such a fine border plant could be overlooked. However, it
is well and deservedly esteemed at the present time; and, although many have proved the plant
and flowers to be contrary to their expectations in reference to its common name, "Snowdrop
Anemone," the disappointment has been, otherwise, an agreeable one. It only resembles the snowdrop
as regards the purity and drooping habit of its flowers.

Well-grown specimens have an exceedingly neat habit--the foliage spreads and touches the ground,
rounding up to the flower stems (which are about a foot high) in a pleasing manner. The earliest
flowers are very large--when fully open quite 1½in. across--but they are more often seen in
the unopen state, when they resemble a nutmeg in shape. Whether open or shut, they are a pure
white, and their pendent habit adds not a little to their beauty, as also does the leafy involucre.
The leaves are three-parted, the two lower lobes being deeply divided, so that at a first glance
the leaves appear to be five-parted; each of the five lobes are three-cleft, and also dentate,
downy, and veined; the leaf stalks are radical, red, long, slightly channelled, and wiry; in
all respects the leaves of the involucre resemble those of the root, excepting the size, which
is smaller, and the stalks are green, like the flower stems.

In a cut state, the pure satin-white blossoms are fit for the most delicate wreath or bouquet;
they have, morever, a delicious clover-scent. It enjoys a light vegetable soil in a slightly
shaded and moist situation; if it could be allowed to ramble in the small openings of a front
shrubbery, such positions would answer admirably.

The roots are underground-creeping, which renders this species somewhat awkward to manage when
grown with others in a collection of less rampant habit. On the other hand, the disposition
it has to spread might very well be taken advantage of by providing it with a good broad space,
than which nothing could be more lovely for two months of the year.

It is needless to give directions for its propagation, as the runners spring up all round the
parent plant. Slugs are very fond of it, and in early spring, especially when the new growths
are appearing, they should be kept in check, otherwise they will eat down into the heart of
the strongest plant; a dose of clear lime water will be found effective and will not hurt the
new leaves; if this is followed up with a few sprinklings of sand, the slugs will not care
to occupy such unpleasant quarters.

Flowering period, May and June.

Anemone Vernalis.

SHAGGY WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

A curious but pretty alpine species, from the Swiss Alps, consequently very hardy. It is not
a showy subject, but its distinctions are really beautiful, and commend it to those who love
to grow plants of a recherché character.

The illustration (Fig. 12) will give some idea of it, but no description can convey even an
approximate notion of its flowers, which are produced singly, on short, stout, hairy stems,
about 5in. high. For so small a plant the flower is large, more than an inch across when expanded,
but usually it keeps of a roundish, bell-shaped form. Its colour is a bluish-white inside,
the outside being much darker. It would be violet, were not the hairs so long and numerous
that they form a brownish coat which is, perhaps, the most remarkable trait of this species.
The leaves, too, are very hairy--twice, and sometimes thrice, divided, rather small, and also few.

This little plant is most enjoyed when grown in pots. It may be plunged in sand or ashes in
an open space, but it should never be allowed to suffer for moisture. When so grown, and just
before the flowers open, it should be removed to a cool, airy frame, where it should also be
plunged to keep its roots cool and moist; it will require to be very near the glass, so as
to get perfect flowers. Such a method of growing this flower affords the best opportunity for
its close examination; besides, it is so preserved in finer and more enduring form. It thrives
well in lumpy peat and loam, but I have found charcoal, in very small lumps, to improve it,
as it does most plants grown in pots, especially such as require frequent supplies of water.
The slugs are very fond of it; a look-out for them should be kept when the plants are growing,
and frequent sprinklings of sharp ashes will be found useful.

Flowering period, April and May.

Anthericum Liliago.

ST. BERNARD'S LILY; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This may be grown as a companion to St. Bruno's Lily, though not so neat in habit or rich in
bloom. In all respects it is very different. It is taller, the flowers not half the size, and
more star-shaped, foliage more grassy, and the roots creeping and jointed.

All the Anthericums named by me will do in ordinary soil, but prefer a fat loam of considerable
depth. If, therefore, such conditions do not exist, there should be a good dressing of well-rotted
stable manure turned in, and a mulching given in early spring.

Anthericums are propagated by division of the roots, which should be carefully performed during
the autumn. After such mutilation they should not be disturbed again for three years, or they
will deteriorate in vigour and beauty.

Flowering period, June and July.

Anthericum Liliastrum.

ST. BRUNO'S LILY; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This charming plant is a native of Alpine meadows, and is known by other names, as Paradisia
and Cyackia, but is more commonly called St. Bruno's Lily. It is emphatically one of the most
useful and handsome flowers that can be grown in English gardens, where, as yet, it is anything
but as plentiful as it ought to be. Not only is it perfectly hardy in our climate, but it seems
to thrive and flower abundantly. It is fast becoming a favourite, and it is probable that before
long it will be very common, from the facts, firstly, of its own value and beauty, and, secondly,
because the Dutch bulb-growers have taken it in hand. Not long ago they were said to be buying
stock wherever they could find it. The illustration (Fig. 13) shows it in a small-sized clump.
Three or four such specimens are very effective when grown near together; the satin-like or
shining pure white flowers show to greater advantage when there is plenty of foliage. A number
planted in strong single roots, but near together, forming a clump several feet in diameter,
represent also a good style; but a single massive specimen, with at least fifty crowns, and
nearly as many spikes of bloom just beginning to unfold, is one of the most lovely objects
in my own garden.

The chaste flowers are 2in. long, six sepalled, lily-shaped, of a transparent whiteness, and
sweetly perfumed; filaments white, and long as the sepals; anthers large, and thickly furnished
with bright orange-yellow pollen; the stems are round, stout, 18in. high, and produce from
six to twelve flowers, two or three of which are open at one and the same time. The leaves
are long, thick, with membranous sheaths, alternate and stem-clasping, or semi-cylindrical;
the upper parts are lanceolate, dilated, subulate, and of a pale green colour. The roots are
long, fleshy, brittle, and fasciculate.

This plant for three or four weeks is one of the most decorative; no matter whether in partial
shade or full sunshine, it not only flowers well, but adorns its situation most richly; the
flowers, in a cut state, are amongst the most useful and effective of hardy kinds--indeed,
they vie with the tender exotics.

Flowering period, June and July.

