'Oh, stow that!' exclaimed the Democrat. 'I mean,' he added apologetically, on observing the
Bishop's startled glance, 'that, of course, that sounds very well, and it is a pretty thing
to say, but everybody knows it isn't true. I will undertake to prove to you, if you will allow
me'--here the Bishop's face gathered a shade of melancholy--'that, in fact, there never was
a more outrageous falsehood on the earth. As for the Nihilist, naturally we should be thankful
to get rid of him, either by explosion or otherwise; but he is such a dangerous fellow to tackle.
The fact is, one hardly dare shake hands with him, for fear of being blown into the middle
of next week, and then one couldn't toil for the benefit of humanity.'

'Act, act in the living Present,' murmured the Bishop.

'Just so,' said his companion approvingly. 'And you can't act in the living Present when you
are in the middle of next week.'

'And yet, you know,' said the Bishop, with a glimpse before him of some possible advantage
in the argument, 'I have often fancied that you yourself--'

He paused judiciously.

'Oh no!' returned the Democrat promptly, 'we wouldn't do it on any account. I assure you that
our motives are quite unimpeachable.'

'Oh!' said the Bishop. 'And about the House of Lords, for example? Being a Spiritual Peer oneself,
you see, one naturally takes an interest--limited.'

'Well, as for that,' said the Democrat, 'it would really be such an excellent thing for you
in all respects to be abolished, that you would never make any objection, would you now? We
have your welfare so deeply at heart, and long study of your characteristics has convinced
us that a course of judicious abolition would be your salvation, temporal, spiritual--and eternal.'

'I say!' exclaimed the Bishop, 'isn't that putting it rather strong? To a Bishop, you know.'

'Ah,' said his companion encouragingly, 'all that feeling will pass away. The full beauty of
true Democracy is not, I admit, at first wholly apparent to the Conservative mind; but once
afford the requisite culture, and it unfolds new attractions every day. Believe me, we are
acting in this matter solely, or almost solely, with a view to your ultimate benefit. We are
not acting for ourselves--ourselves is a secondary consideration. But your true fife, as Goethe
so beautifully says, probably with an intentional reference to bishops and noble lords, must
begin with renunciation of yourself. Till you have once been abolished you can never know how
nice it is.

"The bud may have a bitter taste, But sweet will be the flower,"' he added, quoting the words
of the hymn-book, with the firm impression that they were from some Secularist publication.

'And is it necessary?' said the Bishop somewhat helplessly.

'Absolutely necessary,' replied the Democrat.

'I don't know about that,' said a voice behind them, and Queen Mab started, seeing the Professor.
'But depend upon it, the fittest will survive. I think, myself, that it is quite time you were
gone; but some types die out very slowly, especially the lower types; and you may be said,
as regards freedom of intellect and the march of Science, to be a low type--in fact, a relic
of barbarism. There can be no doubt that, in the economy of Nature, bishops are an unnecessary
organ, merely transmitted by inheritance in the national organism, and that in the course of
time they will become atrophied and degenerate out of existence. When that time comes you must
be content to pass into oblivion. Study Palæontology.' Now he pronounced it Paleyon-tology,
not having had a classical education. 'Think of the pterodactyles, who passed away before the
end of the Mesozoic ages, and never have appeared again. What, in the eternal nature of things,
are bishops more than pterodactyles?'

'I wonder,' interrupted the Bishop severely, 'that you dare to speak of your pernicious teachings
under the name of Paleyontology, as if the First Principles of that revered divine, whose loss
we all deplore, were ever anything like that!'

The Professor only glared, and was going on, but the Democrat stopped him, by remarking, in
a loud and exasperatingly complacent voice:

'You are quite correct. Only upon the wreck of the old order of existence can arise the New
Democracy.'

'Can you never stop talking about yourself?' snapped the Professor testily. 'One would think,
to hear you, that Democracy was the goal of everything.'

'So it is,' said the Democrat.

'Not a bit of it. You and your democracies are only a fleeting phase, an infinitesimal fraction
of the aeons to be represented, perhaps, in some geological record of the future, by a mere
insignificant conglomerate of dust and bones, and ballot-boxes, and letters in the Spectator
and other articles characteristic of this especial period. What a dream of Science that, interstellary
communication established, some being of knowledge and capacities as infinitely excelling our
own as our faculties excel those of the lowly monad, wandering on this terrestrial globe, and
culling from the imperfect archives of these bygone years a corkscrew, an opera-glass, or,
perchance, a pot of long since petrified marmalade, preserved intact by some protecting incrustation
of stalagmite from the ravages of time, may dart a penetrating gleam of intelligence through
the dark abysses of innumerable ages, and exclaim: "This clay, upon which I gaze, was of the
human period. This coin, this meerschaum, this china shepherdess, this prayer-book with gilt
edges, this Sporting Times, were the inseparable companions of a fossil species of Englishmen
who once colonised this globe, and minute traces of whom have been found in its most widely
separated regions. Alas that the action of marine and subaerial denuding agents has deprived
us of an opportunity for closer examination of the habits and idiosyncrasies of this interesting
fossil. Into such small compass are compressed the pride and wealth of nations and of centuries.
O genus humanum! O tempora! O mores!" Thus will he muse. No democrat! no stump orator will
be that Being of the Future, nor anything of human mould. One's imagination may well revel
in the thought that Evolution, mighty to conceive and to perform, lias not yet completed her
work. What are vertebrates? Even these are transient. But four classes of vertebrates--only
four!' shouted the Professor in his enthusiasm, wholly forgetting the Democrat, and the Bishop,
who was gazing at him with a look of blank horror on his venerable countenance. 'Why, it is
preposterous, it is inconceivable that we should stop at four!--fishes, reptiles, birds, and
mammals! Where is the fifth! Cannot Natural Selection, Struggle for Existence, Variability
and Survival of the Fittest, between them, furnish a fifth class of vertebrates? I demand it
in the name of Science and of Evolution. We have been human long enough. There we are, ever
since the Age of Stone, pinned down to one particular tribe of mammals. Ah, when shall we begin
to move on again? Is not this a hope beyond the niggardly aspirations of a purblind democrat?'

'What will the future reality be? I care not; but progress demands a new and conquering organism.
For my part, I see no reason why we should not immediately leave the vertebrates. That would
be something like a New Departure.'

Here the professor stopped suddenly, becoming aware of the eyes of the Democrat, which were
fixed on him with a mixture of contempt and curiosity.

