SECRET SOCIETIES

A Discussion of Their Character and Claims

by

REV. DAVID MACDILL, JONATHAN BLANCHARD, D. D., AND EDWARD BEECHER, D. D.

      'Have no fellowship with the
      unfruitful works of darkness, but
      rather reprove them.' --EPH. v: 11.

CONTENTS.

I.   A TREATISE BY REV. D. MACDILL.

       CHAPTER I.          THEIR ANTIQUITY.
       CHAPTER II.         THEIR SECRECY.
       CHAPTER III.        OATHS AND PROMISES.
       CHAPTER IV.         PROFANENESS.
       CHAPTER V.          THEIR EXCLUSIVENESS.
       CHAPTER VI.         FALSE CLAIMS.

II.  SHALL CHRISTIANS JOIN SECRET SOCIETIES?
     BY JONATHAN BLANCHARD, D. D.

III. REPORT TO CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ILLINOIS.
     BY EDWARD BEECHER, D. D.

CHAPTER I.

THEIR ANTIQUITY.

1. Secret associations are of very ancient origin. They existed among the ancient Egyptians,
Hindoos, Grecians, Romans, and probably among nearly all the pagan nations of antiquity. This
fact, however is neither proof of their utility nor of their harmlessness. Slavery, despotism,
cruelty, drunken falsehood, and all sorts of sins and crimes have been practiced from time
immemorial, but are none the less to be reprobated on that account.

2. The facts that these associations had no existence among the Israelites, who, alone of all
the ancient nations, enjoyed the light of Divine revelation, and that they originated and flourished
among the heathen, who were vain in their imaginations; whose foolish heart was darkened, and
whom God gave up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts (Rom. i: 21-24), is a
presumptive proof that their nature and tendency are evil. We do not claim that all the institutions
among God's ancient people were right and good; nor that every institution among the heathen
was sinful and injurious; still, that which was so popular among those whom the Bible declares
to have been filled with all unrighteousness; that which was so pleasing to men whom God had
given over to a reprobate mind and to vile affections (Rom. i: 26-28); that which made a part
of the worship which the ignorant heathen offered up to their unclean gods, and which was unknown
among God's chosen people, is certainly a thing to be viewed with suspicion. A thing of so
bad origin and so bad accompaniments we should be very slow to approve. The fact that many
good men see no evil in secret societies, and that many good men have been and are members
of them, is more than counterbalanced by the fact that many good men very decidedly disapprove
of them, and that, from time immemorial, men of vile affections and reprobate minds, men whose
inclinations and consciences were perverted by heathenish ignorance and error, and by a corrupt
and abominable religion, have been very fond of them.

3. Doubtless the authors and conductors of the ancient mysteries made high pretensions, just
as do the modern advocates of secret societies. Perhaps the original design of the ancient
mysteries was to civilize mankind and promote religion; that is, pagan superstition. But whatever
may have been the design of the authors of them, it is certain that they became schools of
superstition and vice. Their pernicious character and influence were so manifest that the ancient
Christian writers almost universally exclaimed against them. (Leland's Chr. Rev., p. 223.)
Bishop Warburton, who, in his "Divine Legation," maintains that the ancient mysteries were
originally pure, declares that they "became abominably abused, and that in Cicero's time the
terms mysteries and abominations were almost synonymous." The cause of their corruption, this
eminent writer declares to be the secrecy with which they were performed. He says: "We can
assign no surer cause of the horrid abuses and corruptions of the mysteries than the season
in which they were represented, and the profound silence in which they were buried. Night gave
opportunity to wicked men to attempt evil actions, and the secrecy encouragement to repeat
them." (Leland's Chr. Rev., p. 194.) It seems to have been of these ancient secret associations
that the inspired Apostle said, "It is a shame even to speak of those things which are done
in secret." (Eph. v: 12.)

4. In view of these facts, the antiquity of secret societies is no argument in their favor;
yet it is no uncommon thing to find their members tracing their origin back to the heathenish
mysteries of the ancient Egyptians, Hindoos, or Grecians. (See Webb's Freemason's Monitor,
p. 39.) Since the ancient mysteries were so impure and abominable, those who boast of their
affinity with them must be classed with them of whom the Apostle says, "Their glory is in their
shame" (Phil, iii: 19.)

CHAPTER II.

THEIR SECRECY.

1. One of the objectionable features of all the associations of which we are writing is their
secrecy. We do not say that secrecy is what is called an evil or sin in itself. Secrecy may
sometimes be right and even necessary. There are family secrets and secrets of State. Sometimes
legislatures and church courts hold secret sessions. It is admitted that secrecy in such cases
may be right; but this does not prove that secrecy is always right. The cases above-mentioned
are exceptional in their character. For instance, a family may very properly keep some things
secret; but were a family to act on the principle of secrecy, they would justly be condemned,
and would arouse suspicions in the minds of all who know them. Were a family to endeavor to
conceal every thing that is said and done by the fireside; were they to invent signs, and grips,
and passwords for the purpose of concealment; were they to admit no one under their roof without
exacting a solemn oath or promise that nothing seen or heard shall be made known, every one
would say there is something wrong. So, too, if a church court would always sit in secret;
were none but members at any time admitted; were all the members bound by solemn promises or
oaths to keep the proceedings secret, and were they to employ signs, grips, and passwords,
and to hold up horrid threats, in order to secure concealment, such a church court would lose
the confidence of all men whose esteem is of any value. Such studious and habitual concealment
would damage the reputation of any family or church court in the estimation of all sensible
people. The same result would follow in case a Legislature would endeavor, as a general thing,
to conceal its proceedings. As to State secrets, they generally pertain to what is called diplomacy;
and even in straightforward, manly diplomacy there is generally no effort at concealment. In
our own country, Congress very often asks the President for information in regard to the negotiations
and correspondence of the Executive Department with foreign governments, and almost always
the whole correspondence asked for is laid before Congress and published to the country. It
is very seldom that the President answers the call with a declaration that the public welfare
requires the correspondence to be kept secret. Besides this, the concealment is only temporary.
It is never supposed that the secrecy must be perpetual. It is true that many diplomatists--perhaps
nearly all the diplomatists of Europe--do endeavor to cover up their doings from the light
of day. It is also true that the secrecy and deceit of diplomatists have made diplomacy a corrupt
thing. Diplomacy is regarded by many as but another name for duplicity. Talleyrand, the prince
of diplomatists, said "the design of language is to conceal one's thoughts." This terse sentence
gives a correct idea of the practice of secret negotiators. With regard, then, to State secrets,
we remark that real statesmen do not endeavor to cover up their doings in the dark, and that
the practices of diplomatists, and the reputation they have for duplicity, are not such as
should encourage individuals or associations to endeavor to conceal their proceedings. We see
nothing in the fact that there may be secrets of State to justify studied and habitual secrecy
either in individuals or associations.

2. The impropriety of habitual concealment may be further illustrated. An individual who endeavors
to conceal the business in which he is engaged, or the place and mode of carrying it on, exposes
himself to the suspicion of his fellow-men. People lose confidence in him. They feel that he
is not a safe man. They at once suspect that there is something wrong. They do not ask or expect
him to make all his business affairs public. They are willing that he should say nothing about
many of his business operations. But habitual secrecy, constant concealment, unwillingness
to tell either friend or foe what business he follows, or to speak of his business operations,
will cause any man to be regarded as destitute of common honesty. This fact shows that, in
the common judgment of men, constant concealment is suspicious and wrong. Wherever it is practiced,
men expect the development of some unworthy purpose.

We regard secrecy just like homicide and other actions that in general are very criminal. To
take human life, as a general thing, is a very great crime; but it is right to kill a man in
self-defense, and to take the life of a murderer as a punishment for his crime. The habitual
concealment of one's actions is wrong, but it may be right at particular times and for special
reasons. It is not a dreadfully wicked thing, like the causeless taking of human life, and
may be justifiable much oftener and for less weighty reasons. Still habitual secrecy, or secrecy,
except at particular times and for special reasons, is, according to the common judgment of
men, suspicious and unjustifiable. Now, with secret societies secrecy is the general rule.
They practice constant concealment. At all times and on all occasions must the members keep
their proceedings secret. If an individual would thus studiously endeavor to conceal his actions;
were he to throw the veil of secrecy over his business operations, refusing to speak to any
of his fellow-men concerning them, he would justly expose himself to suspicion. His fellow-men
would lose all confidence in his integrity. If habitual secrecy on the part of an individual,
in regard to business matters, is confessedly suspicious and wrong, it must be so, also, on
the part of associations of men. There is less excuse, indeed, for concealment on the part
of a number of men banded together than on the part of an individual. An individual working
in the dark may do much mischief, but an association thus working can do much more. All those
considerations which forbid individuals to shroud their actions in secrecy and darkness, and
require them to be open, frank, and straightforward in their course, apply with equal or greater
force to associations.

3. In the case of secret societies, the reasons for concealment set the impropriety of it in
a still stronger light. So far from there being any necessity or special reason to justify
habitual secrecy in their case, we believe the very design of their secrecy to be improper
and sinful. We present the following quotation from a book of high authority among those for
whose benefit it was specially intended:

"If the secrets of Masonry are replete with such advantages to mankind, it may be asked, Why
are they not divulged for the general good of society? To which it may be answered, were the
privileges of Masonry to be indiscriminately bestowed, the design of the institution would
be subverted, and, being familiar, like many other important matters, would soon lose their
value and sink into disregard." --Webb's Freemason's Monitor, p. 21.

The same author intimates that the secrecy of Masonry is designed to take advantage of "a weakness
of human nature." He admits that Masonry would soon sink into disregard if its affairs were
generally known. Although this remark is made with special reference to the giddy and unthinking,
yet it is certainly not the contempt of such persons which Masons fear. They would not care
for the contempt of the giddy and unthinking, if they could retain the esteem of the thoughtful
and wise. The real reason, then, for concealing the doings of Masons in their lodges, is to
recommend things which, if generally known, would be regarded with contempt. The design of
concealment in the case of other secret associations, we understand to be the same. The following
is an extract from an address delivered at the national celebration of the fortieth anniversary
of Odd-fellowship, in New York, April 26, 1859, and published by the Grand Lodge of the United
States:

"But even if we do resort to the aid of the mysterious, to render our meetings attractive,
or as a stimulant to applications for membership, surely this results, in no injury to society
or individuals." --Proceedings of Grand Lodge of United States, 1859, Ap., p. 10.

Here, again, it is pretty plainly hinted that the design of secrecy in the case of Odd-fellowship,
is to invest it with unreal attractions, or, at least, with attractions which it would not
possess, were the veil of concealment withdrawn. Here, again, as in Masonry, it is virtually
admitted that secrecy is designed to take advantage of "a weakness in human nature," and to
recommend things which, if not invested with the attractions which secrecy throws around them,
would sink into contempt.

Doubtless the design of concealment in the case of other secret associations is the same. We
are not aware that Good-fellows, Good Templars, Sons of Temperance, and other similar associations,
have any better reason for working, like moles, in the dark than Masons and Odd-fellows. There
is, then, as it respects secret societies, no necessity for concealment--nothing to justify
it. The real motive for it is itself improper and sinful.

4. That the concealment of actions and principles, either by individuals or associations, is
inconsistent with the teachings of the Bible, is, we think, easily shown. Thus our Savior,
on his trial, declared: "I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, whither
the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing." (John xviii: 20.) An association
which claims to be laboring in behalf of true principles, and for the moral and intellectual
improvement of men, and yet conceals its operations under the impenetrable veil of secrecy,
is certainly practicing in direct opposition to the example and teaching of the Son of God.

Again: The concealment of our actions is condemned in the words of the Most High, as recorded
by the prophet: "Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord, and their
works are in the dark; and they say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us?" (Is. xxix: 15.) Those
on whom a divine curse is thus pronounced are described as endeavoring to hide their works
in the dark. This description applies, most assuredly, to those associations which meet only
at night, and in rooms with darkened windows, and which require their members solemnly to promise
or swear that they will never make known their proceedings.

Again: The inspired apostle incidentally condemns secret societies in denouncing the sins prevalent
in his own day: "And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove
them; for it is a shame to speak of those things that are done of them in secret." (Eph. v:
11, 12.) It is not without reason that commentators understand the shameful things done in
secret, of which the apostle speaks, to be the "mysteries" of the "secret societies" which
prevailed among the ancient heathen. They maintained religious rites and ceremonies in honor
of their imaginary deities, just as most modern "secret societies" make a profane use of the
word and worship of God in their parades and initiations. He says it would be a shame to speak
of the rites performed by the heathen in their secret associations in honor of Bacchus and
Venus, the god of wine and the goddess of lust, and of their other abominable deities. But
whether the apostle refers to the Eleusinian, Samothracian, and other pagan mysteries, or not,
the principle of secrecy comes in for a share of his condemnation. These are the words of our
Savior, and they certainly condemn the concealment practiced by secret associations, and all
the means employed for that purpose--their signs, grips, and passwords; their shunning the
light of day; their secret gatherings in the night, and in rooms with darkened windows; the
terrible oaths and solemn promises with which they bind their members to perpetual secrecy;
the disgraceful punishments which they threaten to inflict on any member who will expose their
secret doings--all these things are inconsistent with the spirit, if not the very letter, of
the commands of our Savior quoted above.

5. Besides, if the doings of these associations, in there secret meetings, are good, then it
is in the violation of the express command of our Savior to keep them concealed; for he tells
us to let others see our good works. In case their doings are bad, it is, perhaps, no violation
of Christ's command to keep them hid; but, most certainly, such things ought not to be done
at all. So far as the moral character of secret societies is concerned, it matters not whether
the transactions which they so studiously conceal are good or bad, sinless or wicked. If such
transactions are good, the Savior commands that they be made known; if they are improper and
sinful, he commands us to have no fellowship with them. In either case secret associations
are to be condemned as practicing contrary to the teachings of the Bible.

Hence, we conclude that the concealment so studiously maintained and rigidly enforced by the
associations whose moral character we are considering is condemned both by the common judgment
of men and by the Word of God.

CHAPTER III.

THEIR OATHS AND PROMISES.

1. Another serious objection to secret associations is the profanation by them of the oath
of God. We regard such profanation as the natural result of their secrecy. When associations
of men endeavor to keep secret their operations from generation to generation, they will not
be willing to trust to the honor and honesty of their members. A simple promise of secrecy
will not be deemed sufficient. Oaths or promises, with dreadful penalties, will very likely
be required of all those who are admitted as members. Secret societies may, perhaps, exist
without such oaths and promises. If the members of an association are few in number, or if
the publication of its secrets would not be regarded as very injurious to its interests, perhaps
a simple promise of secrecy will be regarded as sufficient; but whenever an association endeavors
to secure a numerous membership, and regards a disclosure of its secrets as likely to damage
its reputation or hinder its success, something more than a simple promise of secrecy will
very likely be required at the initiation of members. Accordingly, some secret associations,
it is known, do employ awful sanctions in order to secure concealment. Even when the members
of a secret order claim that they are not bound to secrecy by oath, but only by a simple promise,
it will, perhaps, be found on examination that that promise is, in reality, an oath. An appeal
to God or to heaven, whether made expressly or impliedly, in attestation of the truth of a
promise or declaration, is an oath. Such an appeal may not be regarded as an oath in our civil
courts, the violator of which would incur the pains and penalties of perjury; yet certainly
it is an oath according to the teachings of the Bible. Our Savior teaches that to swear by
the temple, is to swear by God who dwelleth therein; and that to swear by heaven, is to swear
by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon. (Matt. xx: 23.) We find, also, that
the words, "As the Lord liveth," is to be regarded as an oath. King David is repeatedly said
to have sworn, when he used this form of expression, in attestation of his sincerity. (1 Sam.
xx: 3; 1 Kings i: 29.) An appeal to God, whether direct or indirect, in attestation of the
truth of a declaration or promise, is an oath. As we have already said, a secret association
may exist without an oath. But we are not sure that any does. Odd-fellows have declared that
they have no initiatory oath. In the address published by the Grand Lodge of the United States,
referred to before, the following declaration is made: "No oath, as was once supposed, is administered
to the candidate." (App. to Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1859, p. 10.) Yet Grosch, in his Odd-fellows'
Manual, speaks of an "appeal to heaven" in the initiation, at least, into one of the degrees.
(P. 306.) Perhaps the contradiction arises from a difference of opinion in regard to what it
takes to constitute an oath, or, perhaps, from the fact that an oath is required in initiations
into some degrees, but not in others. However this may be, we know that some secret societies
have initiatory oaths, and that nearly all administer what, in the sight of God, is an oath,
though they may not so view it themselves. Nor do we see any reason to discredit the declaration
of Grosch that the candidate "appeals to heaven."

2. Now, the taking of an initiatory oath is, to say the very least of it, of doubtful propriety.
Every one who does so swears by the living God that he will forever keep secret things about
which he knows nothing. The secrets of the association are not imparted to him until after
he has sworn that he will not reveal them. He is kept ignorant of them until the "brethren"
are assured by his appeal to heaven that they can trust him. Now, the inspired apostle lays
down the principle that a man sins when he does any thing about the propriety of which he is
in doubt. He declares that the eating of meats was in itself a matter of indifference, but
that if any man esteem any thing unclean, to him it is unclean. (Rom. xiv: 22, 23.) According
to this most emphatic declaration, we must have faith and confidence that what we do is right,
else we are blameworthy. We sin whenever we do any thing which is, according to our own judgment,
of doubtful propriety. The man who is initiated into an oath-bound society, swears that he
will keep secret things about which he knows nothing--things which, for aught he knows, ought
not to be kept secret. If the apostle condemned, in most emphatic language, the man who would
do so trivial a thing as eat meat without assuring himself of the lawfulness of his doing so,
what would he have said had the practice existed in his day of swearing by the God of heaven
in regard to matters that are altogether unknown? To say the very least, such swearing is altogether
inconsistent with that caution and conscientiousness which the Scriptures enjoin. The apostle
also condemns the conduct of those who "understand neither what they say nor whereof they affirm"
(1 Tim. i: 7.) Does not his condemnation fall on those who know not about what they swear,
nor whereof they appeal to heaven?

3. There is another objection to taking an initiatory oath. We are expressly forbidden to take
God's name in vain. To pronounce God's name without a good reason for doing so is to take it
in vain. Certainly, to swear by the name of the living God demands an important occasion. To
make an appeal to the God of heaven on some trifling occasion is a profanation of his oath
and name. If the secrets of Masonry, Odd-fellowship, Good Templars, and similar associations,
are unimportant, their oaths, appeals to heaven, and solemn promises made in the presence of
God are profane and sinful. Perhaps their boasted secrets are only signs, grips, pass-words,
and absurd rites of initiation. To swear by the name of the Lord about things of this kind
is certainly a violation of the third commandment. The candidate does not know that the secrets
about to be disclosed to him are of any importance, and he runs the risk of using God's name
and oath about light and trivial things. He must be uncertain whether there is any thing of
importance in hand at the time of swearing, and how can he escape the disapproval of God, since
the inspired Paul declares that the doubtful eater of meat is damned? (Rom. xiv: 23.)

4. We have already adverted to the fact that concealment is resorted to in order to take advantage
of "a weakness in human nature," and to recommend things which, if known generally, would be
disregarded. Is it right to use the name and oath of God for the accomplishment of such purposes?
Is it right to use the name and oath of God in order to take advantage of "a weakness in human
nature," and to invest with fictitious charms things which, if seen in the clear light of day,
would be regarded with indifference or contempt?

5. (James v: 12.) Does not this command condemn those who swear to keep secret they know not
what, and to fulfill obligations which devolve upon them as members of an association, before
they know fully what that association is, or what those obligations are? Should not every one
consider himself admonished not to swear such an oath lest he fall into condemnation? These
words were spoken in condemnation of those who employed oaths frequently and on improper occasions.
They should make every one hesitate in regard to swearing, in any form, on his initiation into
an order the obligations and operations of which have not yet been revealed to him. In view
of these declarations of the Word of God, it certainly would be well to avoid taking such oaths
as generally are required of the members of secret associations at their initiation.

6. The promise required of candidates at their initiation, whether there be an oath or not,
is also, at least in many cases, improper and sinful. For instance, the "candidate for the
mysteries of Masonry," previous to initiation, must make the declaration that he "will cheerfully
conform to all the ancient established usages and customs of the fraternity." (Webb's Freemason's
Monitor, p. 34.) Grosch, in his Odd-fellows' Manual, directs the candidate at his initiation
as follows: "Give yourself passively to your guides, to lead you whithersoever they will."
(P. 91.) Again, in regard to initiation into a certain degree, he says: "The candidate for
this degree should be firm and decided in his answers to all questions asked him, and patient
in all required of him," etc. (P. 279.) In the form of application for membership, as laid
down by Grosch, the applicant promises as follows:

"If admitted, I promise obedience to the usages and laws of the Order and of the Lodge." (P. 378.)

These declarations, by reliable authors, plainly show that both in Masonry and Odd-fellowship
obligations are laid on members of which, at the time, they are ignorant. Candidates for Masonry
must promise to conform, yes, "cheerfully conform to all the ancient established usages and
customs of the fraternity." The application for membership in the association of Odd-fellows
must be accompanied by a promise of obedience to the usages and laws both of the whole Order
and of the lodge in which membership is sought. No man has a right to make such a promise until
he has carefully examined the usages, and customs, and laws referred to. While he is ignorant
of them, he does not know but some of them or all of them may be morally wrong. Before the
candidate has been initiated, he has not had an opportunity of acquainting himself with all
the laws, usages, and customs which he promises to obey. Is not such a promise condemned by
the divine injunction, "Be not rash with thy mouth?" Is not the man who promises to obey regulations,
customs, and usages before he knows fully what they are as blameworthy as the doubtful eater
of meats, who, the inspired apostle tells us, is damned for doing what he is not confident
is right? The candidate for initiation into Odd-fellowship must "give himself passively to
his guides." Such demands indicate the spirit which secret associations require of their members.
They must surrender the exercise of their own judgment, and permit themselves to be blindly
led by others. No man has a right thus to surrender himself passively to the guidance of others.
Every man is bound to act according to his own judgment and conscience. Before a man promises
to obey any human regulations, or to conform to any usage or custom, he is bound to know what
that regulation, usage, or custom is, and to see that it is morally right. To do otherwise
is to sin against conscience and the law of God.

7. Besides this, the promise to "preserve mysteries inviolate," made before they have been
made known to the promiser, is condemned by sound morality. He may have heard the declaration
of others that there is nothing wrong in "the mysteries," but this is not sufficient to justify
him. A man is bound to exercise his own reason and conscience in regard to all questions of
morality.

No man has a right, at any time, to lay aside his reason and conscience and allow himself to
be "guided passively" by others. Every man is bound to see and decide for himself in every
case of duty and morals. We should not let the church of Christ even decide for us in such
matters, much less some association, composed, it may be, of infidels, Mormons, Jews, Mohammedans,
and all sorts of men except atheists. (See pages 37, 31.) A band of such men may have secrets
very immoral in character, and which it would be a violation of God's law to preserve inviolate.
To promise beforehand that any "mysteries" which they may see fit to enact and practice shall
be forever concealed, is to trifle with conscience and morality. It is useless to plead that
a member can withdraw as soon as he discovers any thing wrong in the regulations and usages
which he is required to obey. Every one who joins such an association as those under consideration
must make up his mind to do so before he knows what "the mysteries" are, and he must promise
(either with or without an oath) that he will preserve them inviolate before "the brethren"
will intrust them to him. The possibility of dissolving his connection with the association
afterward does not exonerate him of promising to do he knows not what--of laying aside his
own conscience and reason, and yielding himself "passively" to others. The promise of secrecy
and of obedience to unknown regulations and customs, required at the initiation of candidates
into such associations as we are considering, is, therefore, a step in the dark. It involves
the assuming of an obligation to do what may be morally wrong, and is, therefore, inconsistent
with the teachings of the Word of God and the principles of sound morality.

CHAPTER IV.

THEIR PROFANENESS.

1. Another evil connected with secrecy, as maintained by the associations the character of
which is now under consideration, is the profane use of sacred things in ceremonies, celebrations,
and processions. This evil has, perhaps, no necessary connection with secrecy, but has generally
in fact. The "secret societies" of antiquity dealt largely in religious ceremonies. It is the
frequent boast of Masons, Odd-fellows, and others, that their associations correspond to those
of ancient times. There is, indeed, a correspondence between them in the use of religious rites.
Those of ancient times employed the rites of heathenish superstition; those of modern times
are, perhaps, as objectionable on account of their prostituting the religion of Christ. The
holy Bible, the word of the living God, is used by Masons as a mere emblem, like the square
and compass. The pot of incense, the holy tabernacle, the ark of the covenant, the holy miter,
and the holy breastplate are also employed as emblems, along with the lambskin and the sword
pointing to a naked heart. At the opening of lodges and during initiations, passages of Scripture
are read as a mere ceremony, or as a charge to the members in regard to their duty as Masons.
Thus a perverse use of holy Scripture is made in the application of it to matters to which
it has no reference whatever. (Freemason's Monitor, pp. 92, 19-181). Even the great Jehovah
is represented in some of their ceremonies by symbols. His all-seeing eye is represented by
the image of a human eye. (Freemason's Monitor, pp. 85, 290.) Masonry also profanes the name
and titles of God. God alone is to be worshiped; he alone should be addressed as the Most Worshipful
Being. But Masonry requires the use of such language as follows: "The Most Worshipful Grand
Master," and "The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge." God alone is Almighty, but Masons have their
"Thrice Illustrious and Grand Puissant," and their "Thrice Potent Grand Master." God alone
is perfect, but Masons have a "Grand Lodge of Perfection" and a "Grand Elect Perfect and Sublime
Mason." (Monitor, pp. 187, 219; Monitor of Free and Accepted Rite, pp. 52.) Christ is the great
High Priest, and Aaron and his successors were his representatives, but Masons have a "High
Priest," a "Grand High Priest," yea, a "Most Excellent Grand High Priest." At the installation
of this so-called High Priest, various passages of Scripture treating of the priesthood of
Melchisedec and of Christ are used. (Webb's Monitor, pp. 178-181, 187.)

We regard these high-sounding titles as ridiculous, and as well calculated to excite derision
and scorn; but we do not now treat of them in that regard. We call attention, at present, to
the emblems and titles used by Masons as profane. God did not intend his holy Word, and the
Tabernacle, and the Ark of the Covenant, and the Breastplate, to be used as the symbols of
Masonry. These and other holy things were intended only for holy purposes. To use them as the
Masons do is to pervert and profane them. The visible representation of the all-seeing eye
of God is certainly a species of idolatry, and is forbidden by the second commandment. Such,
also, are the triangles, declared to be "a beautiful emblem of the eternal Jehovah." (Monitor,
p. 290.) The Israelites, of course, did not understand that the Divine Being was really like
their golden calf; they considered it a symbol of Deity. How much better is it to assimilate
God to a triangle than to a calf? The difference is just this: the latter idea is more gross
than the former. The sin of idolatry--that is, of representing God under a visible figure--is
involved in both cases. The profaneness of the titles mentioned above must at once be evident
to every reverent, considerate mind. They are such as in the Bible are ascribed only to God
and to Christ. Indeed, Masons give more exalted titles to their sham priest than the Scriptures
employ to describe the character and office of the great High Priest who is "made higher than
the heavens." If this is not profane, we are at a loss to know what can be profane.

2. The Odd-fellows in profanation of holy things go about as far as the Masons. They employ
"the brazen serpent," "the budded rod of Aaron," "the Ark of the Covenant," "the breastplate
for the high priest," and other holy things as emblems of their order, along with, "the shining
sun," "the half moon," etc. They have their "Most Worthy Grand Master," and their "Most Excellent
Grand High Priest," and other officers designated by titles which should be given to God and
Christ alone. Indeed, as it respects emblems and titles, Masonry seems to be the example which
other secret associations have followed. In regard to the profanation of holy things, the difference
between most of the secret associations in our land is one merely of degree. This profanation
of the word, name, and titles of God is certainly sinful in itself, and very injurious in its
effects. What kind of ideas of God, and Christ, and heaven must persons have who conceive and
think of God under the figure of three triangles; of Christ and his priesthood as symbolized
by "the Most Excellent Grand High Priest," officiating amid the tomfooleries of Masonry and
Odd-fellowship; and of heaven as a Grand Lodge-room. What ideas of the Divine Majesty and Glory
must they have who are accustomed to give to the officers of a secret association, and to men
who are, perhaps, destitute of faith and holiness, and who may be Jews, Turks, or infidels,
as grand titles as the Scriptures give to the God of heaven and the Savior of the world. Besides
it is very improper and sinful to give to mere men the titles and glory which are due to God
alone. We learn that it was precisely for this sin that the Divine displeasure was visited
upon king Herod. On a certain occasion having put on his royal apparel, he sat on his throne
and made a public oration. (Acts xii: 23.) It was for the same spirit of self-glorification
that the king of Babylon was punished with madness and disgrace. (Dan. iv: 30-33.)

2 [sic]. Another objectionable feature of many secret societies is, that they profane the worship
of God. They claim (at least those which seem to embrace the most numerous membership) to be,
in some sense, religious associations. They maintain forms of worship; their rituals contain
prayers to be used at initiations, installations, funerals, consecrations, etc. They receive
into membership, as we shall afterward see, almost all sorts of men except atheists. Being
composed of Jews, Turks, Mohammedans, Mormons, and infidels, as well as of believers in Christianity,
they endeavor to establish such forms as will be acceptable to their mongrel and motley membership.
Hence their prayers and other forms of worship are such as may be consistently used by the
irreligious and by infidels, and only by them. We do not say that no Christian prayers are
offered up in Masonic lodges. No doubt some godly men, as chaplains, offer up extempore prayers
in the name of Christ; but such prayers are not Masonic. They are not authorized by the Masonic
ritual; they are contrary to the spirit if not to the express regulations of Masonry. Any member
would have a right to object to them, and his objections would have to be sustained. The only
prayers which Masonry does authorize, and can consistently authorize, are Christless--infidel
prayers and services. The proof of this declaration can be found in every Masonic manual. (See
Webb's Monitor, pp. 36, 80, 189, and Carson's Monitor, of the Ancient and Accepted Rite, pp.
47, 61, 95, 99.) In all the prayers thus presented, the name of Christ is excluded; it is excluded
even from the prayers to be offered at the installation of the "Most Excellent Grand High Priest."
(Webb's Mon., pp. 183, 189.) The idea of human guilt is, also, almost entirely excluded from
these prayers; the idea of pardon through the atonement of Christ is never once presented in
them. In the prayer to be used at the funeral of a "Past Master," it is declared that admission
unto God's "everlasting kingdom is the just reward of a pious and virtuous life." Every true
Christian, on reflection, must see that such prayers are an insult to the Almighty. They are
just such as infidels and all objectors of Christ may offer.

The prayers of the society of Odd-fellows are equally objectionable. In respect to the character
of their religious services, they are to be classed with the Masons. Odd-fellowship knows no
God but the god of the infidel; it recognizes the Creator of the Universe and the Father of
men, but not the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The name of Christ has no more
a place in the religion of Odd-fellowship, according to its principles and regulations, than
in a heathen temple or an infidel club-room. It is quite likely that sometimes chaplains, officiating
in the lodge-room, pray in the name of Christ; but a Turk, according to the principles and
regulations of Odd-fellowship, would have just as much right to pray in the name of Mohammed,
or a Mormon in the name of Joe Smith. These are facts which, we presume, all acquainted with
the forms and ceremonies in use among Odd-fellows will admit. Grosch, in his Manual, makes
the following declaration: "The descendants of Abraham, the divers followers of Jesus, the
Pariahs of the stricter sects, here gather round the same altar as one family, manifesting
no differences of creed or worship; and discord and contention are forgotten in works of humanity
and peace." (Pp. 285, 286.) This declaration has reference, of course, to all the members of
the associations--believers in Christianity, Jews, Mohammedans, Indians, Hindoos, and infidels.
How do they manage to worship so lovingly together in the lodge-room? Our author asserts that
they "leave their prejudices at the door." Of course their forms of worship embody no "prejudices."
The thing is managed in this way: Whatever is peculiar to Judaism is excluded from the ritual
and worship of Odd-fellows; whatever is peculiar to Hindooism is excluded; whatever is peculiar
to Mohammedanism is excluded; whatever is peculiar to Christianity is excluded; whatever is
peculiar to any form of religion is excluded. Only so much as is held in common by Jews, Hindoos,
Mohammedans, and Christians is allowed a place in the ritual and worship of Odd-fellows. But
how much is held in common by these various classes? After every thing peculiar to each class
has been thrown overboard, how much is left? Nothing but deism or infidelity. The only views
held in common by the Jew, Mohammedan, Christian, and others are just those held by infidels.
The religion of Odd-fellowship is infidelity, and its prayers are infidel prayers.

Not only such are the prayers and religion of Masonry and Odd-fellowship, but such must be
the religion and prayers of all associations organized on their principles. The only way to
welcome all of every creed, Jew, Mohammedan, Hindoo, etc., and make them feel at home in an
association, is to exclude every thing offensive to the conscience or prejudices of any one
of them. And when every thing of that sort has been excluded, the residuum, in every case,
as every one must see, will be deism or infidelity. This is a serious matter. Christians are
not free from guilt in countenancing such prayers and services. The tendency of such religious
performances must be very injurious. Whoever adopts the religious, or rather irreligious, spirit
and principles of Masonry, Odd-fellowship, and other similar associations must discard Christianity
and the Bible. No doubt there are some, perhaps there are many Christians in connection with
such associations, but they certainly do not and can not approve the Christless prayers of
the lodge-room, much less join in them. Is it right for the disciples of Jesus, or even for
believers in Christianity, as the great majority of people in this country are, to sustain
any association which puts Christianity on a level with pagan superstition, which treats Jesus
Christ with no more regard and veneration than it does Mohammed, Confucius, or Joe Smith, and
whose only religion is the religion of infidels?

If secret associations did not pretend to have any religion or any religious services, but
would, like bank and railroad companies, conduct their affairs without religious forms, it
would be infinitely better.

CHAPTER V.

THEIR EXCLUSIVENESS.

1. Another objection which may be urged against secret societies in general, is their selfish
exclusiveness.

It is well known that the Christian religion has often been subjected to reproach by the bigotry
and sectarianism of its professors. If the Bible inculcated bigotry and sectarianism, it would
be a well-founded objection to Christianity itself; but Christianity is eminently catholic
and democratic, and is diametrically opposed to an exclusive and partisan spirit. The command
of Christ to his church is to make no distinction on account of class or condition, but to
receive all, and especially to care for the poor, the unfortunate, the oppressed, the blind,
the lame, the maimed, and the diseased. Sometimes men calling themselves Christians act so
directly contrary to the impartial, catholic spirit and teachings of Christ as to render themselves
unworthy of all sympathy and encouragement; but the exclusiveness of secret societies is, we
think, unparalleled in our day for its selfishness and meanness. They claim to be charitable
and benevolent institutions; they assert that membership in them confers great honors and advantages;
they profess (at least many of them) to act on the principle of the universal brotherhood of
men and fatherhood of God. (Moore's Con. of Freemasonry, p. 125; Webb's Monitor, pp. 21, 51;
Proceedings of Odd-fellows' Grand Lodge of United States, 1859, App., p. 6.) We say nothing
now about the falsity of these claims and professions; but we assert that, even admitting the
boasted honors and advantages enjoyed by members of secret associations, such associations
are eminently exclusive and selfish. Of this proposition there is abundant proof.

2. The Masons utterly refuse to admit as members women, slaves, persons not free-born, and
persons having any maim, defect, or imperfection in their bodies; or, at least, the principles
of Masonry forbid the admission of all such persons. (Masonic Constitutions, published by authority
of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, Art. 3 and 4.) Moore, editor of the Masonic Review, in his Ancient
Charges and Regulations of Freemasonry, in commenting on the articles above referred to, makes
the following declarations: "The rituals and ceremonies of the order forbid the presence of
women;" and "the law proclaiming her exclusion is as unrepealable as that of the Medes and
Persians." (P. 145.) Again: "Masonry requires candidates for its honors to have been free by
birth; no taint of slavery or dishonor must rest upon their origin." (P. 143.) Once more this
author remarks: "A candidate for Masonry must be physically perfect. As under the Jewish economy
no person who was maimed or defective in his physical organism, though of the tribe of Aaron,
could enter upon the office of a priest, nor a physically defective animal be offered in sacrifice,
so no man who is not 'perfect' in his bodily organization can legally be made a Mason. We have
occasionally met with men having but one arm or one leg, who in that condition had been made
Masons; and on one or two occasions we have found those who were totally blind who had been
admitted! This is so entirely illegal, so utterly at variance with a law which every Mason
is bound to obey, that it seems almost incredible, yet it is true." (P. 152.) It is, hence,
seen that Masonry is very exclusive. No woman can be a member. This regulation excludes at
once one half of mankind from its boasted advantages. The oppressed slave is excluded; the
man born in slavery, though now free, is excluded; the lame man is excluded; the man who has
lost an eye is excluded; the man who has lost a hand is excluded; the man who has lost a foot
is excluded; the man on whose birth any taint of dishonor rests is excluded; the man who is
imperfect in body is excluded. No matter how good, patriotic, and wise such persons are, still
they are excluded; no matter how needy such persons are, still they are excluded; no matter
though a man have lost a hand, or foot, or eye in defense of his country and liberty, still
he is excluded; no matter though a freedman, exhibiting bravery, and piety, and every virtue,
still the "taint of slavery rests on his birth," he is excluded. Widows and orphans are excluded.

"If a brother should be a rebel against the state, the loyal brotherhood can not expel him
from the lodge, and his relation to it remains indefeasible." (Moore's Constitutions, Art.
2.) A Mason may be engaged in a wicked rebellion, and may stain his soul and hands with innocent
blood, and still he must be recognized as "a brother" and must continue to enjoy all the boasted
rights and advantages of the order; but the patriot soldier who has been disabled for life
in defense of his country and liberty is excluded. The widows and orphans of rebel Masons slain
in battle, or righteously executed on the scaffold, must receive "the benefits;" but the widows
and orphans of patriot soldiers who did not choose to join the Masons, or were excluded by
some bodily imperfection, or by wounds received in battle, are left to the charities of "the
ignorant and prejudiced." The Jew, the Turk, the Hindoo, the American savage, and the infidel
(provided they are not atheists), are eligible to the boasted honors and advantages of Masonry.
(Moore's Constitutions, pp. 119, 123.) But if a man have every intellectual gift and every
moral virtue, and have some bodily imperfection, he is excluded. A man may be as gifted and
as learned as Milton, as incorruptible and patriotic as Washington, and as benevolent as Howard,
but if he is physically imperfect he is excluded from this association, which claims to be
no respecter of persons, but to be the patron of merit, and which professes to act on the principle
of the universal brotherhood of men.

3. Exclusiveness in about the same degree characterizes other secret societies. The Constitution
of the Odd-fellows' Grand Lodge of Ohio provides that the candidate for membership must be
"a free white person possessed of some known means of support and free from all infirmity or
disease." (Art. 6, Sec. 1.) Substantially the same qualifications for membership are required
by the constitutions and laws of other secret associations. (Constitution of Ancient Order
of Good-fellows, Art. 6, Sec. 1; Constitution of Improved Order of Red Men, Art. 5, Sec. 1;
Constitution of United Ancient Order of Druids, Art. 8, Sec. 1.)

4. Not only are these associations exclusive and selfish in regard to receiving members; not
only do they utterly refuse to admit a man, however good, and wise, and patriotic he may be,
in case he is diseased or infirm, or is disabled by wounds in the service of his country, and
is too poor and feeble to maintain himself and his family; not only do they exclude all such
persons from membership and from the boasted privileges, and honors, and pecuniary benefits
pertaining thereto, but also their regulations in regard to their internal affairs manifest
an unchristian, anti-republican, exclusive, selfish spirit. For instance, Masons will not,
and, indeed, according to their regulations, can not, bestow funeral honors upon deceased members
who had not advanced to the third degree. Those of the first and second degree can not thus
be honored. They are not entitled to funeral obsequies, nor are they allowed to attend a Masonic
funeral procession. (Webb's Monitor, pp. 132-133.)

Again: Though Masonry makes professions of universal benevolence on the ground "that the radiant
arch of Masonry spans the whole habitable globe;" though it declares that every true and worthy
brother of the order, no matter what be his language, country, religion, creed, opinions, politics,
or condition, is a legitimate object for the exercise of benevolence, (Masonic Constitutions,
by Grand Lodge of Ohio, p. 80); still it is declared that "Master Masons only are entitled
to Masonic burial or relief from the charity fund." (Masonic Constitutions by Grand Lodge of
Ohio, p. 39.) The rulers of Masons can not be chosen from the members of the first or second
degree. It is thus seen that the first two degrees serve as a sort of substratum on which the
other degrees rest, and the "honors and benefits" are not intended for persons of the former.

The exclusiveness and selfishness of other secret associations are also apparent from their
regulations. As shown above, they exclude all diseased and infirm persons from membership,
and of course from all the "benefits." They generally provide that, in case of sickness or
disability, a member shall receive three dollars per week, and in case of the death of a member,
the sum of thirty dollars shall be contributed toward defraying his funeral expenses. But all
the associations making such regulations also provide that a member who is in "arrears for
dues" shall receive no aid in case of sickness or disability; and in case of the death of a
member who is "in arrears for dues" nothing shall be contributed to defray his funeral expenses,
and his wife and children, however destitute they may be, can receive no aid. In such cases,
the destitute widow and orphans must not look to "the charitable association" of which the
departed husband and father was a member, but to outsiders--yes, to "prejudiced and ignorant"
outsiders--for aid to bury his dead body with decency. Grosch says, "The philosopher's stone
is found by the Odd-fellow in three words, Pay in advance. There are few old members of the
order who can not relate some case of peculiar hardship caused by non-payment of dues. Some
good but careless brother, who neglected this small item of duty until he was suddenly called
out of this life, was found to be not beneficial, and his widow and orphans, when most in need,
were left destitute of all legal claims on the funds he had for years been aiding to accumulate."
(Monitor, p. 198, 199.) Such facts as these prove secret associations to be exclusive, heartless,
selfish concerns. (See Constitution of Druids, Art. 2, Sec. 1, and By-laws, Art. 11, Sec. 1;
Constitution of Good-fellows, Art. 16, Sec. 1; Constitution of Amer. Prot. Asso., Art. 9, Sec.
1-5.)

CHAPTER VI.

FALSE CLAIMS.

1. Another very serious objection to secret societies is that they set up false claims. No
doubt a secret association may exist without doing so, but the setting up of false claims is
the legitimate result and the usual accompaniment of secrecy. The object of secrecy is deception.
When a man endeavors to conceal his business affairs, it is with the design of taking advantage
of the ignorance of others. Napoleon once remarked, "The secret of majesty is mystery." This
keen observer knew that the false claims of royalty would become contemptible but for the deception
which kings and queens practice on mankind. We have quoted above from a book, the reliability
of which will not be called in question, to show that the design of secrecy, on the part of
Masons, is to take advantage of "a weakness in human nature," and to invest with a charm things
which, if generally known, "would sink into disregard." So, also, "the aid of the mysterious"
is resorted to by Odd-fellows to render their "meetings attractive," and to "stimulate applications
for membership." (Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1859, App., p. 10.) It will scarcely be disputed
that such is the design of the concealment practiced by secret associations in general. It
is thus shown that secrecy is the result of an unwillingness to rely upon real merit and the
sober judgment of mankind for success, and of a desire, on the part of associations practicing
it, to pass for what they are not. Hence, the design of secrecy involves hypocrisy, or something
very much like it.

2. But, whatever may be the design of secrecy, secret associations do set up false claims.
They all, or almost all, claim to be charitable institutions. This is the frequent boast of
Masons and Odd-fellows. Moore, in his "Constitutions," declares that "charity and hospitality
are the distinguishing characteristics" of Masonry. (P. 71.) In the charge to a "Master Mason,"
at his initiation, it is declared that "Masonic charity is as broad as the mantle of heaven
and co-extensive with the boundaries of the world." (Masonic Constitutions, published by the
Grand Lodge of Ohio, p. 80.) "The Right Worthy Grand Representative," Boylston, in his oration
delivered in New York, April 26, 1859, declared that Odd-fellowship is "most generally known
and commended by its charities." (Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1859, App., p. 6.) Such is the
style in which secret associations glorify themselves. Such boasting, however, is not good.
The boasting of secret associations about their charities is precisely what our Savior not
only forbids, but also declares to be characteristic of hypocrites. And such boasting is, indeed,
generally vain. When a man boasts of any thing, whether of his wealth, pedigree, bravery, wisdom,
or honesty, there is good reason to suspect that his claims are not well founded. Hence, the
very boasting of secret associations about their benevolence and charities is presumptive evidence
that their claims to the reputation of being charitable institutions are hypocritical and false.

3. In the first place, "the benefits" are confined to their own members. The excuse for secrecy,
in some instances, is that it is necessary in order that aid may not be obtained by persons
who are not members. In the "charge" delivered to a Master Mason at his initiation, he is enjoined
to exercise benevolence toward "every true and worthy brother of the Order." In Boylston's
address which we have already quoted from several times, "the well-earned glory of Odd-fellows"
is declared to consist in this: that "no worthy Odd-fellow has ever sought aid and been refused."
(Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1859, App., p. 9.) It is provided in the Constitution of Odd-fellows,
Good-fellows, etc., that aid shall be given to members under certain circumstances; but it
will be in vain to search in them for any regulation providing for relief to any but members
and their families. The provision found in the constitution or by-laws of almost every secret
association that members "in arrears for dues" shall not be entitled to "benefits," plainly
shows that their vaunted "charity" is restricted to their own members. This would not be so
bad were it not for the fact that they carefully exclude from membership all who need aid or
are likely to need aid. The Masons, according to their Constitutions, must not receive as a
member any man who is not "physically perfect." The constitutions of other secret orders exclude
all who are diseased or infirm in body, or who have no means of support. They exclude the blind,
the lame, the maimed, the diseased, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and all who are
wretchedly poor or can not support themselves, and they cut off all such persons, together
with their own members who "are in arrears," from the "benefits." Yet they talk about the universal
brotherhood of men, and claim for themselves the possession of universal benevolence!

4. Still further: The relief afforded to members is not to be regarded as a charity. The amount
granted in all cases is the same. The constitutions of most secret associations that give aid
to members provide that three dollars a week shall be given in case of sickness, and thirty
dollars in case of death. The amount given does not correspond to the condition of the recipient.
The rich and the poor fare alike. The member "in arrears" is not entitled to any aid. It is
only the worthy brother who is entitled to aid, and in order to be a worthy brother a member
must punctually pay his "dues." Hence, the amount bestowed in case of the sickness or death
of a member is to be regarded as a debt. The "Druids," in their Constitution, expressly declare
that the aid given to sick members is not to be regarded in any other light than as the payment
of a debt. "All money paid by the grove for the relief of sick members shall not be considered
as charity, but as the just due of the sick." (Art. 2, Sec. 7.) Boylston, in his oration, though
boasting of the "charities" of Odd-fellowship, declares that they do not wound or insult the
pride of the receiver, for the reason "that the relief extended is not of grace, but of right."
(Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1859, Appendix, p. 6.) Grosch, in his Odd-fellows' Manual, in
justifying equality in dues and in benefits, says: "He who did not pay an equivalent would
feel degraded at receiving benefits--would feel that they were not his just due, but alms."
(P. 66.) It is, hence, seen that the aid bestowed by secret societies is no more a gift of
charity than the dividends of a bank or of a railroad company. The stockholders are entitled
to their share of the profits; so members of secret societies are entitled to a certain share
of the funds to which they have contributed. We say nothing for or against the propriety of
this arrangement, in itself considered. Persons have, perhaps, a right to form themselves into
a mutual insurance company, to bargain with one another that they will aid each other in case
of sickness or want; that in case of the death of any of the members, their families shall
be provided for by the surviving members; that only the members who continue to pay into the
common fund a certain sum monthly or quarterly shall receive such aid; that no money shall
be paid out of the common fund for the benefit of any who are not members, or of their families;
and that all diseased and infirm persons, and very poor people, such as "have no visible means
of support," and are likely to need pecuniary aid, shall be excluded from the company and from
its benefits. Perhaps men have a right to form themselves into an association with such regulations;
perhaps they have a right to leave "an unworthy brother" (a member who fails to pay his "quarterly
dues") and his family to the charities of "ignorant and prejudiced" people who will not join
secret societies; and in case of the death of such a member, to leave his poor heart-broken
widow to beg of the same "ignorant and prejudiced" outsiders enough of money to bury his dead
body decently; but they have no right to call themselves a charitable association. It is probable
that many Masons, Odd-fellows, Good-fellows, etc., are kind to "unworthy brethren," and to
the poor in general; but if so, they are better than the associations of which they are members.
Bankers and money-brokers, no doubt, sometimes show kindness to the poor, but it does not hence
follow that banks and money-shaving establishments are charitable institutions. Neither does
it follow that secret societies are charitable because their members, in case of sickness or
death, are entitled to a certain portion of the funds which they themselves have contributed
as initiation fees and quarterly dues, while those who are in real want can not even become
members. What charity is there in persons pledging themselves to aid each other in sickness
or other misfortune, and to let widows and orphans, the lame and the diseased, and the wretchedly
poor, perish with hunger and cold? It may not be improper for A, B, and C to promise that they
will take care of each other in sickness, and that in case of the death of one of them his
dead body shall be buried by the survivors. It may, also, not be improper for a man to get
his life or his property insured. Insurance companies have done much good. Many a man has been
saved from pecuniary ruin by getting his property insured, and many a man has secured a competence
for his wife and children by getting his life insured. Individuals and families have probably
been oftener saved from worldly ruin by insurance companies than by secret societies. The association
of A, B, and C may do some good. They have a right to agree to aid one another. They may, perhaps,
have a right to say that D, E, and F, who are very poor, or are enfeebled by disease, shall
not join them, and shall not be aided by them; but they have no right to represent their exclusive,
selfish association as a charitable one. Such a representation would be false, and the wickedness
of making it wholly inexcusable. We do not blame Odd-fellows, Good-fellows, Druids, or any
other association for acting as mutual insurance companies. We do not blame them for agreeing
that they will take care of each other or of each other's families. We are not now blaming
them for excluding from their associations and from "the benefits" disbursed by them, the blind,
the lame, the diseased, and the very poor who have no means of support, though this feature
of such associations does seem very repulsive. We are not now condemning them for casting off
all those who do not pay their "dues," those who become very poor and can not as well as the
rich who will not, and for cutting off all such persons from all "benefits of whatsoever kind,"
though such treatment does seem to us selfish, cruel, and mean; we do not now arraign them
for any of these things, however ungenerous, exclusive, and selfish they appear to us, but
we do say that any association which thus practices, and professes, and calls itself a charitable
one is a cheat and a sham. Those secret societies which glorify themselves on account of their
charities and universal brotherhood and benevolence, can be acquitted of willful deceit and
falsehood only on the ground that they are blinded by prejudice or ignorance, or both.

The pretentious character of secret associations appears, also, in their claims to be the possessors
and disseminators of knowledge and morality. Their members seem to think a man can scarcely
be good and intelligent without being "initiated." Webb delares [sic] "Masonry is a progressive
science. * * Masonry includes within its circle almost every branch of polite learning." (Monitor,
p. 53.) "Masonry is not only the most ancient, but the most moral institution that ever subsisted."
(Monitor, p. 39.) Grosch, in his Manual, speaking of the shining sun as an emblem, says: "So
Odd-fellowship is dispersing the mists from the advancing member's mind, and revealing things
as they are; so, also, it is enlightening the world," etc. (Manual, p. 120.) The extravagance
find absurdity of these claims must be evident to every prejudicial mind. It may be said, indeed,
the above declarations express the opinions only of individuals, and that associations can
not justly be charged with the errors of their members. We maintain, however, that secret societies
are responsible for the vain boasting of their members. They claim that their members are a
chosen board, a select few, who, by virtue of their association, are superior to the rest of
mankind. Their processions and parades, their regalia and emblems, and their high-sounding
titles are evidently designed to impress the minds of their own members and of outsiders with
ideas of their excellence and grandeur. Their high-sounding titles have already been adverted
to as involving the sin of profaneness; but they serve equally well to illustrate the pretentious
character of the associations which employ them. Almost every officer among the Masons has
some great title. There is the Grand Tyler, Grand Steward, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary,
Grand Chaplain, and Grand Master. The Lodge itself is grand, and, of course, every thing and
every body connected with it are grand. The treasurer, though his duty be merely to count and
hold a little vile trash called money, is grand; almost every officer is a grand man.

These titles, however, do not give an adequate idea of the grandeur to which "sublime" Masonry
ascends. They have their Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, their Right Worshipful Grand
Treasurer [sic], Most Worshipful Grand Master, Most Eminent Grand Commander, Thrice Illustrious
Grand Puissant, Most Excellent Grand High Priest, etc. (Constitution [sic] of Grand Lodge of
Ohio, Art. 5., Webb's Monitor, pp. 187, 219, 284.) Other associations employ similar titles;
indeed, Masonry, as the oldest association, seems to have been copied after by the rest. The
Odd-fellows have almost the same parades, shows, and titles as the Masons. They have their
aprons, ribbons, rosettes, and drawn swords; and they endeavor, by these and other clap-trap
means, to recommend their association as a grand affair. They, too, have their Right Worthy
Grand Lodge, Most Worthy Grand Master, Right Worthy Grand Secretary, Right Worthy Grand Treasurer,
Right Worthy Grand Chaplain, etc.

We think it strange that men of sense should employ such titles. They would be ridiculous even
applied to the greatest and best man that ever lived. They are more ridiculous than the bombastic
titles given to civil officers in barbarous countries. The Sublime Porte of Turkey is outdone
in this respect by secret associations in the United States.

6. The absurdity of these high-sounding titles and other puerilities is further seen from the
character of those who compose the associations which employ them. They boast that they receive
as members almost all sorts of men except atheists; that men of every religious sect and every
nation meet in their lodges as loving brethren, and on a perfect equality; that they welcome
the Jew, the Arab, the Chinaman, the American savage, the infidel, and the Christian, provided
they be sound in body and be able to support themselves; yet the officers elected by the lodges
or squads of such persons, Jews, Arabs, Chinamen, savages, infidels and Christians, become
Most Eminent Grand Commanders, Thrice Illustrious Puissants, etc. Yea, since brotherhood and
equality characterize these associations, the Jew, the Arab, the Chinaman, and the infidel
are eligible to any office, and may become Most Worshipful Grand Commanders and Most Excellent
Grand High Priests.

All this is calculated to produce laughter and contempt; but such is not the design. The design
of those who make use of these grand titles and other clap-trap things is to recommend their
associations as an excellent and grand affair. The design itself, and the means employed for
its accomplishment, must, certainly, be condemned by every unprejudiced Christian [sic] mind.

CONCLUSION.

We have thus briefly stated the objectionable features of what are generally called secret
societies. It is mainly to their secrecy, oaths, and promises, their profanation of holy things,
their exclusiveness and their setting up of false claims, to which we object. These are the
things objected to in the foregoing treatise. We have written without any feeling of unkindness,
and we trust, also, without prejudice. We had intended to urge additional considerations to
show the evil nature and tendency of secret societies; but we have been restrained by the fear
of swelling our treatise beyond a proper size.

       *       *       *       *       *

     SHALL CHRISTIANS JOIN SECRET SOCIETIES?

       *       *       *       *       *

SHALL CHRISTIANS JOIN SECRET SOCIETIES?

"With charity for all and with malice toward none," we bring this question to all those who
would serve Christ. We mean by "secret societies" not literary, scientific, or college associations,
which merely use privacy as a screen against intrusion, but those affiliated and centralized
"orders" spreading over the land, professing mysteries, practicing secret rites, binding by
oaths, admitting by signs and pass-words, solemnly pledging their members to mutual protection,
and commonly constructed in "degrees," each higher one imposing fresh fees, oaths, and obligations,
and swearing the initiated to secrecy even from lower "degrees" in the same Order.

Shall Christians join societies of this kind?

SUPPOSING IT TO BE INNOCENT, WILL IT PAY?

First. They consume time and money. Have you considered how much? How many evenings, and whole
nights, and parts of days? How many dollars in fees, dues, fines, expenses, and diminished
proceeds from broken days? Will it pay? Can you not lay out this amount of time and money more
profitably?--a plain man's question. They propose helping you to "friends," "business," in
"moral reform," in "sickness, death, and bereavement;" but can you not get as much of such
good in ways pointed out to you by Christ, your best and wisest friend?--ways which will yield
you more of personal cultivation, spiritual good, earthly profit, social and domestic happiness,
and openings for usefulness. If so, these orders are unprofitable, and will not pay.

Secondly. They furnish inferior security for investments. As mutual insurance societies, they
are irresponsible, and more liable to corruption, just because they are secret. Do they make
"reports" to the public or the Legislature? Do they make any adequate "report" to the mass
even of their own members? Millions and millions are known to have gone into the treasury of
a single one of these organizations. No dividends are declared, no expenditures published.
Where is the money? Were it not safer to invest the same amount in companies where every proceeding
is open to public eye and public judgment? Would you not, then, be safer? If so, it will not
pay to join these orders.

IS IT OBLIGATORY?

First. Charity has no need of them. They are not truly charitable institutions. "Mutual insurance
societies" they may be, though of an inferior sort, as we have seen; but that does not elevate
them into charitable institutions. To bestow on your widow and orphans, your sickness, and
funeral some pittance, or the whole of what you paid during health and life, is not benevolence.

But, further, it is well to ask, in determining how greatly charity depends on them, how broadly
they go forth among the poor outside their membership. During the anti-masonic excitement of
1826-1830 some two thousand lodges suspended. The resultant suffering was less, perhaps, than
what would follow the suspension of a single soup association, any winter, in some city. Blot
out the whole, and how small the injury to the charities of the country!

The Church of Christ is commanded to "do good unto all men"--"to remember the poor." It is
engaged in this work. It blows no trumpet--it does not parade its charities; but it shrinks
from comparison with no one of these orders, nor with all of them combined. Christians need
not to go into them to preserve charity alive, or to find the best ways of exercising their own.

Secondly. Morality does not depend on them. We need say nothing of "what is done of them in
secret." But, looking at what is open to all, we ask, What work are they doing worthy of so
much organization, and expense, and time to reclaim the fallen, to banish vice, and to save
its victim? We have heard them refusing him admission or cutting him off, but we have not heard
of any considerable aid which they have given to public or private morality. And, further,
do we not find them narrowing the circle of obligation, substituting attachment and duty to
an order for love and obligations to mankind? Membership in a lodge, not character, is held
to make one "worthy," opening the way to favor and society. But can all this be done without
sensibly weakening the fundamental supports of morality, without lessening its broad requirements?

Thirdly. Patriotism has no need of them. They tend to destroy citizenship, to exalt love of
an order above the love of country. The boast during the late rebellion was sometimes heard
that their members, owing to the oaths of mutual protection, were safer among the rebels than
other captives. Was the converse true? Were rebels, being Freemasons, safe or safer against
restraint and due punishment when, falling captive to those of their order? How far does all
this extend? To courts and suits at law? Are criminals as safe or safer before judge and jury
of their order? Have rebellion and vice found greater security here? This boast is confession--confession
that the ties of an order are stronger and more felt than is consistent with a proper love
of country. Is justice thus to be imperiled? Are securities of property and rights thus to
be imperiled? Must we beggar ourselves by paying fees and dues to one another of these orders,
now becoming more plentiful every decade, to make sure of standing on equal footing and impartiality
with others, in the courts and elsewhere, and imagine that all this is helpful to patriotism
or even consistent with it?

Fourthly. Religion has no need of them. "The church is the pillar and ground of the truth."
"The gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The preaching of Christ and him crucified
is and must continue to be the wisdom of God and the power of God unto salvation. Religion,
then, has no need of these secret orders.

We come now to this: Neither charity, morality, patriotism, nor religion imposes obligations
on us to join them. It will not pay was our first fact. We have now reached this other, that
no consideration of duty requires it. But,

IS IT RIGHT?

First. Christ, our Master, neither instituted nor countenanced these orders. Reviewing his
whole earthly ministry, he said (John xviii: 20): "I spake openly to the world;" and "in secret
have I said nothing." By this double affirmation he strongly suggested his preference for open,
unsecret ways and proceedings.

Secondly. In those rites, proceedings, and regalia which do appear, these orders are frivolous,
belittling, and unworthy of respect. If the revealed are such, what must the unrevealed be?

Thirdly. These orders stand convicted of deceit and falsehood. They profess secrets and mysteries
worth buying. Hundreds of high-minded men, of irreproachable character and integrity, who have,
therefore, "renounced these hidden things of dishonesty," testify over their own signatures,
that their secrets are but signs, pass-words, ceremonies, etc., covering nothing but emptiness
and vanity.

Fourthly. These orders are unfriendly to domestic happiness and well-being, breaking in upon
the sacred confidence and unity of husband and wife, pledging him to conceal from her the proceedings
of perhaps fifty nights yearly, thus often sowing seeds of distrust, filling his breast with
what must not be divulged to her, involving him in affairs and habits not unfrequently injurious
to the best interests and state of the family.

Fifthly. These orders are hostile to the heavenly-mindedness, the spirituality of those who
join them. We speak from much testimony. "Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed." The
prudent man foreseeth the evil, but the foolish pass on and are punished. This voice of one
is that of many concurring wise, faithful, and godly men, viz.: "I am afraid of these secret
societies; they have sucked the spirituality out of all the members in our church who have
joined them." Young, promising Christians have often been blighted by them. The fervor of piety,
interest in the church and its work, interest in Christ and his people, interest in God's Word
and Spirit, all the various elements of an earnest life of faith and heavenly-mindedness have
been blighted in these lodges. And in urging this, we appeal to so many witnesses, and cover
so wide a field of observation, as to make it certain that this is not the exceptional but
the ordinary result.

Sixthly. These orders tend to destroy Christian fellowship. Let them grow until a given church
is broken into squads, each pledged to secrets from the other, but bound within itself by special
ties; give to each its own weekly meeting, mysteries, rites, signs, grips, pass-words; let
each be sworn to provide for, protect, shield, and love its own adherents above others, and
is not "church fellowship" annihilated? Can the Spirit of Christ flow freely from member to
member through such partitions? Is this "one body in Christ, and every one members one of another?"

Seventhly. These orders tend to subject the church to "the world" in some of its dearest interests.
For example: When a few leading members join a neighboring lodge, and make vows to the "strange"
brotherhood, how easy for that lodge to interfere secretly but controllingly in its discipline
of members, or in its selection or dismission of a pastor! These suggestions are not merely
imaginary. Subjection of the church, in this way, to the cunning craftiness of evil and designing
men is no mere dream.

Eighthly. These orders dishonor Christ. Those claims which he makes for himself are disallowed.
He is required to disappear or find a place amidst other objects for worship. There is a necessity,
because these orders are designed for adherents of all religions. Were they on the footing
of an insurance company or a merchants' exchange, or any similar body, this fact would not
be so. But they profess to include religion among their elements, and its services, in whole
or in part, among their ceremonies. They have prayers and solemn religious rites. And in these
Christ is dishonored. His exclusive claims are disallowed or ignored, and this not by accident,
but of set purpose. Out of twenty-three forms of prayer in the "New Masonic Trestle-Board,"
(Boston edition, 1850,) only one even alludes to him, and that one in a non-committal way.
These secret orders are under bonds not to honor Christ as he claims, lest the Jew, or the
Deist, or the Mohammedan, all of whom they seek to enroll in equal membership, should be offended.
When the higher "degrees" of Masonry allude to Christ and Christianity, it is but as one amidst
many equals. We repeat it: Did these orders stand on the same footing with mercantile or other
bodies in this matter, this objection might go for nothing; but they do not. Unlike them, they
profess to have religious services. Indeed, they often boast of their religiousness, and avow
their full equality in this with the church of God itself! Yet, if you join them, their "constitutions"
prohibit you acknowledging, in their boasted religious services, what Christ, your Lord, not
only claims for himself, but commands you to give unto him: that glory which is due to his
holy name. Are they, then, not Anti-christ in this thing? And can you, without sin, consent
to it, or uphold institutions which forbid you and others, in religious services, to honor
him as your God and Savior, and which thus place him on the same level with Zoroaster, Confucius,
or Mohammed?

Ninthly. These orders--the things now alleged being true--impede the cause and kingdom of God,
and are, therefore, hostile to the largest, best, and deepest interests of mankind. Recognizing
this, churches, conferences, associations, synods, and many eminently godly men, living and
dead, have put forth their solemn testimony against them. Great lawyers, like Samuel Dexter;
great patriots and statesmen, like Adams, and Webster, and Everett; great communities, like
the American people from 1826 to 1830, have united to declare them not only "wrong in their
very principles," but "noxious to mankind." But many Christians, rising higher and standing
on "a more sure word of prophecy," have discovered in them the enemies of the Gospel and of
the cross of Christ. Following him, their great exemplar in philanthropy as in godliness, who
did nothing in secret, they refuse to have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness,
choosing rather to reprove them.

Shall Christians join secret societies?

Will it pay? Are they under obligation to do so? Fellow-disciple, brother man, have you doubt
on these questions? If it will not pay; if you are under no obligation to do it; if you have
any doubt of its rightfulness, it is most assuredly your duty to refuse any connection with them.

We have no wish to press our reasoning beyond just limits. We have sought to avoid extreme
statements. We now ask you whether, in the light of what has been brought to view, the weight
of argument is not against your joining these orders and lending them aid? Even should you
be able to stand up against their tendency to lower your personal piety and injure your Christian
character, have we not here one of those cases where many brothers are offended or made weak?
The Lord Jesus has said, "Whoso offends one of these little [or weak] ones, it were better
for him that a mill-stone were hanged about his neck and he were drowned in the depths of the
sea." Will you, then, however safe yourself, be the means, by your example, of bringing weaker
brethren into such dangers? "We, then, that are strong ought to bear the burdens of the weak,
and not please ourselves." These words are not ours; they are God's.

Christian disciple, decide this question of secret societies with candor, with solemn prayer,
and with a purpose to please God.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PAPER ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSOCIATION OF ILLINOIS OF THE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES, AT THEIR
MEETING IN OTTAWA, 1866.

       *       *       *       *       *

The topics committed to us involve the following points:

  1. The moral character of secrecy. Is it an element of an invariable
  moral character? and, if so, what? and, if not, what are the
  decisive criteria of its character?

  2. Associations or combinations involving secrecy. Are they of
  necessity right or wrong? If not, what are the decisive criteria?

  3. Religious rites and worship in societies or organizations, open
  or secret. Are any kind allowable? and, if so, what?

I. Secrecy, Its character.

A presumption against secrecy arises from the known fact that evil-doers of all kinds resort
to secrecy. This is for two reasons: (1.) To avoid opposition and retribution; and, (2,) to
avoid exposure to disgrace. The adulterer seeks secrecy; so do the thief and the counterfeiter;
so do conspirators for evil ends.

Secrecy, whenever resorted to for evil ends, is wrong. But may it not be resorted to for good
ends? and is it not recognized as often wise and right in the Word of God? We answer in the
affirmative. There is a certain degree of reserve, or secrecy, that should invest every individual.
Our whole range of thought and feeling ought not to be promiscuously made known. There is a
degree of secrecy necessary in the order, social intercourse, and discipline of the family.
There is secrecy needed in dealing with faults and sins. Christ adopts this principle in his
discipline. He says, "Tell him his fault between him and thee alone. If he repents, conceal
it." There are confidential communications for important ends, or for council.

Concealment may be used as a defense against enemies, as in the case of the spies of Joshua,
or the messengers of David, or when Elisha hid himself by the brook Oherith, by God's order.
So God hides the good in his secret place and under his wings.

Secrecy is opposed to ostentation and love of human applause. Hence, alms and prayer are to
be in secret. God also resorts to secrecy in an eminent degree. He hides himself. He dwells
in thick darkness. It is his glory to conceal his designs. In part, this is inevitable by reason
of his greatness; in part, he resorts to it of set purpose.

It is a special honor and blessing of the good that he discloses his secrets to them.

Secrecy, then, is not of necessity wrong. Its character depends upon the ends for which it
is used, and the circumstances and spirit in which it is used. There is a secrecy of wisdom,
love, and justice, as well as a secrecy of selfish, malevolent, and evil deeds.

II. Secret societies.

Of these there may be two degrees.

1. Where not only the proceedings of the society are secret, but even the existence of such
a society is concealed.

2. Where the existence is avowed, and the signs and proceedings only are secret.

In associations, secrecy may be resorted to in both these ways for evil ends. Men may combine
in associated societies to prey on the community, and the existence of such societies be hidden.
Counterfeiters, horse-thieves, burglars, may thus associate for wrong, in the deepest secrecy.

So, too, secret associations whose existence is avowed may combine for selfish ends, and in
derogation of the common rights of the social system. They may defend their members, to the
injury of justice, in our courts. They may interfere with the management of churches and societies.
They may bring an influence of intimidation to bear on public men. They may disseminate false
principles of religion and morals. They may co-operate for political ends, and to effect revolutions.

And yet it is no less true that, in certain circumstances, secret societies of both kinds may
be resorted to for good ends.

Secret societies may be rightfully resorted to for common council and united action, in the
fear of God and with prayer, in a very dangerous state of the body politic, to resist incumbent
evils, and the existence of such societies not be disclosed, if the state of the case would
thus give them greater power for good. So, as a defense against known disloyal secret organizations,
secret loyal leagues were rightfully resorted to as a means of united and concentrated action
against organized disloyalty. And if, in resisting moral evils, secrecy gives power and advantage
in devising measures to resist vice and crime, it is not sinful to resort to it.

All boards of trust generally have secret sessions, and legislative bodies resort to secret
sessions rightfully, if the state of affairs demands it. It will be seen that secrecy is justified
and demanded by peculiar circumstances or obvious ends to be gained. The reason of the case,
therefore, is against secrecy, and in favor of open action, where no such justification can
be made out. It is the nature of truth and right to be open. All things tend to it. There is
nothing covered or concealed that shall not finally be proclaimed.

On the other hand, if secrecy is resorted to without reason; if it is made the basis of false
pretences; if it assumes the existence of something that is not, then it is not defensible.
If it involves a profession of information to be communicated, and influences for good to be
exerted, that do not exist, then it is a species of intellectual swindling which admits of
no defense. The sciences and arts, the Bible and nature, are open to all. So is the book of
history. What new science, or art, or history, or religion is there for secret societies to
disclose?

III. Religious rites or worship in societies, open or secret--are any allowable? and, if so, what?

In order to answer this question, we need to consider certain fundamental and vital principles
of Christianity.

  1. All men, as depraved and guilty, need regeneration and pardon
  through the intervention of Christ.

  2. There is access to the true God only through Christ: "I am the
  way, and the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but
  through me."

  3. "Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father; but he
  that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also."

All Christian churches are based on these truths, and the center and culmination of their worship
is this recognition of Christ in the Sacrament as the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins
of the world. Christ, too, is the center of the worship of heaven.

Hence, if Christians associate with others in worship, it can rightly be only on the ground
that the worship centers in Christ, and acknowledges him as Lord, to the glory of the Father.

Hence, if, for the sake of extending an organization, men are admitted of all religions--Pagans,
Mohammedans, Deists, Jews--and if, for the sake of accommodating them with a common ground
of union, Christ is ignored, and the God of nature or of creation is professedly worshiped,
and morality inculcated solely on natural grounds, then such worship is not accepted by the
real God and Father of the universe, for he looks on it as involving the rejection and dishonor,
nay, the renewed crucifixion of his Son. As to Christ, he tolerates no neutrality. He who is
not for him is against him. These principles do not involve the question of secrecy. They hold
true of all societies, open or secret.

If, on such anti-Christian grounds, prayers are framed, rites established, and chaplains appointed,
ignoring Christ and his intercession, God regards it as a mockery and an insult to himself
and his church. In it is revealed the hatred of Satan to Christ. By it Christ is dethroned
and Satan exalted.

These principles do not exclude worship and prayer from societies. In any societies, true worship
in the name of Christ will be accepted.

Let us now apply these principles to the societies of Free Masonry, the modern mother of secret
societies. Concerning these we hold it to be plain:

That they have neither science nor art to impart as a reward of membership. The time was when
there was a society, or societies, of working masons, coming down from the old Roman empire,
and extending through the middle ages. These were societies of great power, and wrought great
works. The cathedrals of the middle ages were each erected by such a corporation, and attest
their skill and energy.

But these corporations of working masons have passed away, and Masonry is now, even in profession,
only theoretical, and in fact, so far as this art is concerned, is not even this. It does not
teach the theory of architecture. The transition took place in 1717, after a period of decline
in the lodges of working masons. All pretences to a history back of this, or to any connection
with Solomon or Hiram, are mere false pretences and delusion for effect. No art is taught and
no science is communicated by the system.

Practical ends, then, alone remain; and, in fact, the founders of the system avowed "brotherly
love, relief, and truth" as these ends. The cultivation of social intercourse is also avowed
as an end by defenders of the system. But such ends as these furnish no good reasons for secrecy;
nor is secrecy favorable to a wise and economical use of the income of such bodies for purposes
of benevolence. An open and public acknowledgment of receipts and expenditures is needed as
a safeguard against a dishonest and wasteful expenditure of funds.

Nor is this all. The secrecy of the order, taken in connection with the principle of hierarchal
concentration, and with the administration of extra-judicial oaths of obedience and secrecy,
renders it, as a system, liable to great abuses in the perversion of justice, in the overriding
of national law, and the claims of patriotism.

But the most serious view of the case lies in the fact that it professes to rest on a religious
basis, and to have religious temples, yet is avowedly based on a platform that ignores Christ
and Christianity as supreme and essential to true allegiance to the real God of the universe.
Its worship, therefore, taken as a system, is in rivalry to and in derogation of Christ and
Christianity.

And, as a matter of fact, this and similar systems are by many regarded as a substitute for
the church, or as superior to it. Moreover, devotion to them absorbs time and interest due
to the church, and paralyzes Christians by association with worldly men, and by the malignant
power of the spirit of the world.

This system, and those who imitate its hierarchal and centralizing organization, also give
power to those hierarchal principles and systems against which Congregationalism has ever protested
as corrupting and enslaving the church.

The system also cultivates a love of swelling titles, and of gaudy decorations and display
in dress, that are hostile to the genius of our Constitution, and to true republican and Christian
dignity and simplicity.

From this system other organizations have borrowed much, and some do not essentially differ
from it in practical working.

Other organizations, however, for the ends of temperance reform, have adopted modes of organization,
display in dress, and secret signs for the purposes of recognition and defense. The ends and
proceedings of these temperance societies are so well known that it is often denied that they
are secret societies; yet they do, avowedly for purposes of defense, resort to secrecy, and
have imitated modes of dress and organization found in Masonry. And members of Masonic lodges
declare that they involve, in fact, all the principles of Masonic organizations, and rely on
them ultimately leading to their own order.

While we recognize the true devotion of the members of these societies to the cause of temperance,
and acknowledge and commend their active efforts to resist the progress of one of the greatest
evils of the age, we yet can not concede the wisdom or desirableness of a resort to principles
and modes of action which tend to create a current toward other secret organizations not aiming
at their ends, nor actuated by their spirit of temperance reform.

In conclusion, we respectfully present the Association the following principles foradoption [sic]:

  Resolved, 1. That in dealing with secret organizations, this
  Association recognizes the need of a careful statement of principles
  and a wise discrimination of things that differ.

  2. That there are some legitimate concealments of an organized
  character--such as the privacies of the family and business firms,
  the temporary concealment of public negotiations at critical stages,
  the occasional withdrawal of scandals which could only disturb and
  demoralize communities, and the secrecy of military combinations;
  nor are we prepared totally to condemn all private plans and
  arrangements between good and true citizens, in great emergencies,
  to resist the machinations of the wicked.

  3. That organizations whose whole object and general method are well
  understood, and are known to be laudable and moral--such as
  associations for purely literary or reformatory purposes--are not to
  be sweepingly condemned by reason of a thin veil of secrecy covering
  their precise methods of procedure; yet we deem that outer veil of
  secrecy to be unwise and undesirable, inasmuch as it holds out
  needless temptations to deeds of darkness, and gives unnecessary
  countenance to other and unlawful combinations; and, whenever the
  act of membership involves an unconditional oath or promise of
  submission, adhesion, and concealment, under all circumstnces [sic],
  that compact is a grave moral wrong.

  4. That there are certain other wide-spread organizations--such as
  Freemasonry--which, we suppose, are in their nature hostile to good
  citizenship and true religion, because they exact initiatory oaths
  of blind compliance and concealment incompatible with the claims of
  equal justice toward man and a good conscience toward God; because
  they may easily, and sometimes have actually, become combinations
  against the due process of law and government; because, while
  claiming a religious character, they, in their rituals, deliberately
  withhold all recognition of Christ as their only Savior, and of
  Christianity as the only true religion; because, while they are, in
  fact, nothing but restricted partnerships or companies for mutual
  insurance and protection, they ostentatiously parade this
  characterless engagement as a substitute for brotherly love and true
  benevolence; because they bring good men in confidential relations
  to bad men; and because, while in theory, they supplant the church
  of Christ, they do also, in fact, largely tend to withdraw the
  sympathy and active zeal of professing Christians from their
  respective churches. Against all connections with such associations
  we earnestly advise the members of our churches, and exhort them,
  "Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers."

