Monkeys are certainly, there is no denying it, very like men; and, what is worse, men are still
more like monkeys. Many worthy people, who have a high respect for what they choose to call
the Dignity of Human Nature, are much distressed by this similitude, approaching in many cases
to absolute identity; and some of them have written books of considerable erudition and ingenuity,
to prove that a man is not a monkey; nay, not so much as even an ape; but truth compels us
to confess, that their speculations have been far from carrying conviction to our minds. All
such inquirers, from Aristotle to Smellie, principally insist on two great leading distinctions--speech
and reason. But it is obvious to the meanest capacity, that monkeys have both speech and reason.
They have a language of their own, which, though not so capacious as the Greek, is much more
so than the Hottentottish; and as for reason, no man of a truly philosophical genius ever saw
a monkey crack a nut, without perceiving that the creature possesses that endowment, or faculty,
in no small perfection. Their speech, indeed, is said not to be articulate; but it is audibly
more so than the Gaelic. The words unquestionably do run into each other, in a way that, to
our ears, renders it rather unintelligible; but it is contrary to all the rules of sound philosophizing,
to confuse the obtuseness of our own senses with the want of any faculty in others; and they
have just as good a right to maintain, and to complain of, our inarticulate mode of speaking,
as we have of theirs--indeed much more--for monkeys speak the same, or nearly the same, language
all over the habitable globe, whereas men, ever since the Tower of Babel, have kept chattering,
muttering, humming, and hawing, in divers ways and sundry manners, so that one nation is unable
to comprehend what another would be at, and the earth groans in vain with vocabularies and
dictionaries. That monkeys and men are one and the same animal, we shall not take upon ourselves
absolutely to assert, for the truth is, we, for one or two, know nothing whatever about the
matter; all we mean to say is, that nobody has yet proved that they are not, and farther, that
whatever may be the case with men, monkeys have reason and speech.

The monkey has not had justice done him, we repeat and insist upon it; for what right have
you to judge of a whole people, from a few isolated individuals,--and from a few isolated individuals,
too, running up poles with a chain round their waist, twenty times the length of their own
tail, or grinning in ones or twos through the bars of a cage in a menagerie? His eyes are red
with perpetual weeping--and his smile is sardonic in captivity. His fur is mouldy and mangy,
and he is manifestly ashamed of his tail, prehensile no more--and of his paws, "very hands,
as you may say," miserable matches to his miserable feet. To know him as he is, you must go
to Senegal; or if that be too far off for a trip during the summer vacation, to the Rock of
Gebir, now called Gibraltar, and see him at his gambols among the cliffs. Sailor nor slater
would have a chance with him there, standing on his head on a ledge of six inches, five hundred
feet above the level of the sea, without ever so much as once tumbling down; or hanging at
the same height from a bush by the tail, to dry, or air, or sun himself, as if he were flower
or fruit. There he is, a monkey indeed; but you catch him young, clap a pair of breeches on
him, and an old red jacket, and oblige him to dance a saraband on the stones of a street, or
perch upon the shoulder of Bruin, equally out of his natural element, which is a cave among
the woods. Here he is but the ape of a monkey.