The photographs accompanying the present chapter show the dam, the Kiosk in process of conservation
and underpinning (1902), and the shores of the island as they now appear in the month of November,
with the water nearly up to the level of the quays. A view is also given of the island of Konosso,
with its inscriptions, as it is now. The island is simply a huge granite boulder of the kind
characteristic of the neighbourhood of Shellâl (Phila?) and Aswan.

On the island of Elephantine, opposite Aswan, an interesting discovery has lately been made
by Mr. Howard Carter. This is a remarkable well, which was supposed by the ancients to lie
immediately on the tropic. It formed the basis of Eratosthenes' calculations of the measurement
of the earth. Important finds of documents written in Aramaic have also been made here; they
show that there was on the island in Ptolemaic times a regular colony of Syrian merchants.

South of Aswan and Philse begins Nubia. The Nubian language, which is quite different from
Arabic, is spoken by everybody on the island of Elephantine, and its various dialects are used
as far south as Dongola, where Arabic again is generally spoken till we reach the land of the
negroes, south of Khartum. In Ptolemaic and Roman days the Nubians were a powerful people,
and the whole of Nubia and the modern North Sudan formed an independent kingdom, ruled by queens
who bore the title or name of Candace. It was the eunuch of a Candace who was converted to
Christianity as he was returning from a mission to Jerusalem to salute Jehovah. "Go and join
thyself unto his chariot" was the command to Philip, and when the Ethiopian had heard the gospel
from his lips he went on his way rejoicing. The capital of this Candace was at Meroë, the modern
Bagarawiya, near Shendi. Here, and at Naga not far off, are the remains of the temples of the
Can-daces, great buildings of semi-barbaric Egyptian style. For the civilization of the Nubians,
such as it was, was of Egyptian origin. Ever since Egyptian rule had been extended southwards
to Jebel Barkal, beyond Dongola, in the time of Amenhetep II, Egyptian culture had influenced
the Nubians. Amenhetep III built a temple to Amen at Napatà, the capital of Nubia, which lay
under the shadow of Mount Barkal; Akhunaten erected a sanctuary of the Sun-Disk there; and
Ramses II also built there.

The place in fact was a sort of appanage of the priests of Amen at Thebes, and when the last
priest-king evacuated Thebes, leaving it to the Bubastites of the XXIId Dynasty, it was to
distant Napata that he retired. Here a priestly dynasty continued to reign until, two centuries
later, the troubles and misfortunes of Egypt seemed to afford an opportunity for the reassertion
of the exiled Theban power. Piankhi Mera-men returned to Egypt in triumph as its rightful sovereign,
but his successors, Shabak, Shabatak, and Tirha-kah, had to contend constantly with the Assyrians.
Finally ITrdamaneh, Tirhakah's successor, returned to Nubia, leaving Egypt, in the decadence
of the Assyrian might, free to lead a quiet existence under Psametik I and the succeeding monarchs
of the XXVIth Dynasty. When Cambyses conquered Egypt he aspired to conquer Nubia also, but
his army was routed and destroyed by the Napatan king, who tells us in an inscription how he
defeated "the man Kambasauden," who had attacked him. At Napata the Nubian monarchs, one of
the greatest of whom in Ptolemaic times was Ergam-enes, a contemporary of Ptolemy Philopator,
continued to reign. But the first Roman governor of Egypt, Ælius Gallus, destroyed Napata,
and the Nubians removed their capital to Meroë, where the Candaces reigned.

The monuments of this Nubian kingdom, the temples of Jebel Barkal, the pyramids of Nure close
by, the pyramids of Bagarawiya, the temples of Wadi Ben Naga, Mesawwarat en-Naga, and Mesawwarat
es-Sufra ("Mesawwarat" proper), were originally investigated by Cailliaud and afterwards by
Lepsius. During the last few years they and the pyramids excavated by Dr. E. A. Wallis-Budge,
of the British Museum, for the Sudan government, have been again explored. As the results of
his work are not yet fully published, it is possible at present only to quote the following
description from Cook's Handbook for Egypt and the Sudan (by Dr. Budge), p. 6, of work on the
pyramids of Jebel Barkal: "the writer excavated the shafts of one of the pyramids here in 1897,
and at the depth of about twenty-five cubits found a group of three chambers, in one of which
were a number of bones of the sheep which was sacrificed there about two thousand years ago,
and also portions of a broken amphora which had held Rho-dian wine. A second shaft, which led
to the mummy-chamber, was partly emptied, but at a further depth of twenty cubits water was
found. The high-water mark of the reservoir when full is ------ and, as there were no visible
means for pumping it out, the mummy-chamber could not be entered." With regard to the Bagarawîya
pyramids, Dr. Budge writes, on p. 700 of the same work, à propos of the story of the Italian
Ferlini that he found Roman jewelry in one of these pyramids: "In 1903 the writer excavated
a number of the pyramids of Meroë for the Governor-General of the Sudan, Sir F. R. Wingate,
and he is convinced that the statements made by Ferlini are the result of misapprehension on
his part. The pyramids are solid throughout, and the bodies are buried under them. When the
details are complete the proofs for this will be published." Dr. Budge has also written upon
the subject of the orientation of the Jebel Barkal and Nure pyramids.

It is very curious to find the pyramids reappearing in Egyptian tomb-architecture in the very
latest period of Egyptian history. We find them when Egyptian civilization was just entering
upon its vigorous manhood, then they gradually disappear, only to revive in its decadent and
exiled old age. The Ethiopian pyramids are all of much more elongated form than the old Egyptian
ones. It is possible that they may be a survival of the archaistic movement of the XXVIth Dynasty,
to which we have already referred.

These are not the latest Egyptian monuments in the Sudan, nor are the temples of Naga and Mesawwarat
the most ancient, though they belong to the Roman period and are decidedly barbarian as to
their style and, especially, as to their decoration. The southernmost as well as latest relic
of Egypt in the Sudan is the Christian church of Soba, on the Blue Mie, a few miles above Khartum.
In it was found a stone ram, an emblem of Amen-Râ, which had formerly stood in the temple of
Naga and had been brought to Soba perhaps under the impression that it was the Christian Lamb.
It was removed to the garden of the governor-general's palace at Khartum, where it now stands.

The church at Soba is a relic of the Christian kingdom of Alua, which succeeded the realm of
the Candaces. One of its chief seats was at Dongola, and all Nubia is covered with the ruins
of its churches. It was, of course, an offshoot of the Christianity of Egypt, but a late one,
since Isis was still worshipped at Philse in the sixth century, long after the Edict of Theodosius
had officially abolished paganism throughout the Roman world, and the Nubians were at first
zealous votaries of the goddess of Philo. So also when Egypt fell beneath the sway of the Moslem
in the seventh century, Nubia remained an independent Christian state, and continued so down
to the twelfth century, when the soldiers of Islam conquered the country.

