In most ideally conceived Utopias the world as it exists
  is depicted as a mushrooming horror of maladjustment, cruelty and
  crime. In this startlingly original short novel that basic premise is
  granted, but only to pave the way for an approach to Utopia over a
  highway of the mind so daringly unusual we predict you'll forget
  completely that you're embarking on a fictional excursion into the
  future by one of the most gifted writers in the field. And that
  forgetfulness will be accompanied by the startling realization that
  Irving E. Cox has a great deal more than a storyteller's magic to
  impart.]

                          the cartels jungle

                     by ... Irving E. Cox, Jr.

     It was a world of greedy Dynasts--each contending for the
     right to pillage and enslave. But one man's valor became a
     shining shield.

       *       *       *       *       *

     ... and he who overcomes an enemy by fraud is as much to be
      praised as he who does so by force.

                                        Machiavelli, DISCORSI, III, 1531

The captain walked down the ramp carrying a lightweight bag. To a discerning eye, that bag
meant only one thing: Max Hunter had quit the service. A spaceman on leave never took personal
belongings from his ship, because without a bag he could by-pass the tedious wait for a customs
clearance.

From the foot of the ramp a gray-haired port hand called up to Hunter, "So you're really through,
Max?"

"I always said, by the time I was twenty-six--"

"Lots of guys think they'll make it. I did once myself. Look at me now. I'm no good in the
ships any more, so they bust me back to port hand. It's too damn easy to throw your credits
away in the crumb-joints."

"I'm getting married," Hunter replied. "Ann and I worked this out when I joined the service.
Now we have the capital to open her clinic--and ninety-six thousand credits, salted away in
the Solar First National Fund."

"Every youngster starts out like you did, but something always happens. The girl doesn't wait,
maybe. Or he gets to thinking he can pile up credits faster in the company casinos." The old
man saluted. "So long, boy. It does my soul good to meet one guy who's getting out of this
crazy space racket."

Max Hunter strode along the fenced causeway toward the low, pink-walled municipal building,
shimmering in the desert sun. Behind him the repair docks and the launching tubes made a ragged
silhouette against the sky.

Hunter felt no romantic inclination to look back. He had always been amused by the insipid,
Tri-D space operas. To Hunter it had been a business--a job different from other occupations
only because the risks were greater and the bonus scale higher.

Ann would be waiting in the lobby, as she always was when he came in from a flight. But today
when they left the field, it would be for keeps. Anticipation made his memory of Ann Saymer
suddenly vivid--the caress of her lips, the delicate scent of her hair, her quick smile and
the pert upturn of her nose.

Captain Hunter thought of Ann as small and delicate, yet neither term was strictly applicable
except subjectively in relation to himself. Hunter towered a good four inches above six feet.
His shoulders were broad and powerful, his hips narrow, and his belly flat and hard. He moved
with the co-ordination that had become second nature to him after a decade of frontier war.
He was the typical spaceman, holding a First in his profession.

As was his privilege, he still wore his captain's uniform--dress boots of black plastic, tight-fitting
trousers, and a scarlet jacket bearing the gold insignia of Consolidated Solar Industries.

Hunter entered the municipal building and joined the line of people moving slowly toward the
customs booth. Anxiously he scanned the mass of faces in the lobby. Ann Saymer wasn't there.

He felt the keen, knife-edge disappointment, and something else--something he didn't want to
put into words. He had sent Ann a micropic telling her when his ship would be in. Of course,
there was that commission-job she had taken--

Abruptly he was face to face again with the vague fear that had nagged at his mind for nearly
a month. This wasn't like Ann. Always before she had sent him every two or three days a chatty
micropic, using the private code they had invented to cut the unit cost of words. But four
weeks had now passed since he had last heard from her.

In an attempt at self-assurance, he recalled to mind just how exacting a commission-job could
be. Perhaps Ann had been working so hard she had simply not had the time to send him a message.

Not even five minutes to send a micropic?

It didn't occur to him that she might be ill, for preventive medicine had long ago made physical
disease a trivial factor in human affairs. A maladjustment then, with commitment to a city
clinic? But Ann Saymer held a First in Psychiatry.

Hunter fingered the Saving Fund record in his pocket--the goal he and Ann had worked for so
long. Nothing could go wrong now, nothing! He said the words over in his mind as he might have
repeated the litany of a prayer, although Max Hunter did not consider himself a religious man.

At sixteen he and Ann Saymer had fallen in love, while they had both been in the last semester
of the general school. They could have married then, or they might have registered for the
less permanent companionship-union.

In either case, both of them would have had to go to work. Hunter could not have entered the
space service, which enrolled only single men and Ann could not have afforded the university.

It hadn't mattered to Hunter. But Ann had possessed enough ambition for them both. She knew
she had the ability to earn a First in Psychiatry, and would settle for nothing less. The drive
that kept their goal alive was hers. She was determined to establish a clinic of her own. The
plan she worked out was very practical--for Ann was in all respects the opposite of an idle
dreamer.

Hunter was to join a commercial spacefleet. His bonus credits would accumulate to supply their
capital, while he paid her university tuition from his current earnings. After they married,
Hunter was to manage the finances of the clinic while Ann became the resident psychiatrist.

Even at sixteen Ann Saymer had very positive ideas about curing mental illness, which was the
epidemic sickness of their world. Eight years later, while she was still serving her internship
in a city clinic, Ann had invented the tiny machine which, with wry humor, she called an Exorciser.

She had never used the device in the public clinic. If she had, she would have lost the patent,
since she had built the Exorciser while she was still serving out her educational apprenticeship
in the city clinic.

"I'm no fool, Max," she told Hunter. "Why should I give it away? We'll coin credits in our
own clinic with that little gadget."

Hunter had no objection to her aggressive selfishness. In fact, the term "selfishness" did
not even occur to him. Ann was simply expressing the ethic of their society. He admired her
brilliance, her cleverness; and he knew that her Exorciser, properly exploited, would be the
touchstone to a fortune.

During one of his furloughs Ann demonstrated what the machine could do. After a minor surgical
operation, a fragile filigree of microscopic platinum wires was planted in the cerebral cortex
of a patient's skull. From a multi-dialed console Ann verbally transmitted a new personality
directly into the maladjusted mind. After twenty minutes she removed the wire grid, and the
disorganized personality was whole again, with an adjustment index testing at zero-zero.

"A cure that leaves out the long probe for psychic causes," she said enthusiastically. "In
minutes, Max, we'll be able to do what now takes weeks or months. They'll swarm into our clinic."

Hunter reasoned that Ann had taken the commission-job in order to experiment with her machine
in a privately-operated clinic. Her internship had ended a month before, and it had been an
altogether legal thing for her to do. The fact that she had taken a commission meant she would
work for only a specific contract period. And because a commission-job carried a professional
classification, Ann had not been compelled to join the union.

Nevertheless the haze of anxiety still lay oppressively over Captain Hunter's mind. No matter
what the requirements of Ann's commission may have been, she could have met him at the spaceport.
She knew when his ship was due, and had never failed to show up before.

II

The line of people continued to move steadily toward the customs booth. Hunter stopped at last
in front of a counter where a male clerk, wearing on his tunic the identification disc of his
U.F.W. union local, typed out the customs forms, took Hunter's thumbprint, and carefully checked
his medical certificate.

"You had your last boosters in the Mars station, is that correct?"

"Yes, last January," Hunter replied.

"That gives you an eight months' clearance." The clerk smiled. "Plenty of time for a spaceman's
furlough."

"I'm making a permanent separation," Hunter affirmed.

The clerk glanced at him sharply. "Then I'd better issue a temporary health card." He ran a
red-tinted, celluloid rectangle through a stamping machine and Hunter pressed his thumbprint
upon the signature square. "Can you give me your home address, Captain?"

"I'll be staying at the Roost for a day or so. After that I'm getting married."

"I'll assign your health file to the Los Angeles Clinic then," the clerk said. "You can apply
for an official reassignment later, if necessary."

He made a photo-copy of the health card, pushed it into a pneumatic tube and handed the original
to Hunter. Then he rolled the customs form back into the typewriter.

"Since you're quitting the service, Captain, I'll have to have additional information for the
municipal file. Do you have union affiliation?"

"No. Spacemen aren't required to join the U.F.W."

"If you want to give me a part payment on the initiation fee, I'll be glad to issue--"

"It'll be a long, hard winter before Eric Young gets any of my credits," Hunter said, his eyes
narrowing. Considering how Hunter felt about the Union of Free Workers and the labor czar,
Eric Young, he thought he had phrased his answer with remarkable restraint.

"Anti-labor," the clerk said, and typed the designation on the form.

"No," Hunter snapped, "and I won't be labeled that. As far as the individual goes, I believe
he has every right to organize. No one can stand up against the cartels in any other way. But
this exploitation by Young--"

"You either join the U.F.W., or you're against us." The clerk shrugged disinterestedly. "It's
all one and the same thing to me, Captain. However, if you expect a job in the city, you'll
have to get it through the union." He typed again on the customs form. "According to a new
regulation, I'm obliged to classify you as unemployed, and that restricts you to limited areas
of Los Angeles as well as--"

"When the hell did they put over a law like that?"

"Two weeks ago, sir. It gives the clinics a closer control over the potentially maladjusted,
and it should help ease the pressure--"

"There are no exceptions?"

"The executive classifications, naturally--professionals, and spacemen. That would have included
you, Captain Hunter, but you say you've left the service."

Hunter gritted his teeth. It had been like this for as long as he could remember. Whenever
he returned from a long flight there was always a new form of regimentation to adjust to. And
always for the same reason--to stop the steadily rising incidence of psychotic maladjustment.

"How does the law define an executive?" Hunter asked.

"Job bracket with one of the cartels," the clerk replied. "Or the total credits held on deposit
with a recognized fund."

The captain flung his savings book on the counter. The clerk glanced at the balance and X'ed
out the last word he had typed on the customs form.

"You qualify, sir--with a thousand credits to spare. I'll give you a city-wide clearance as
an executive. But I can only make it temporary. You'll have to check once each week with the
U.F.W. office. If your balance drops below ninety-five thousand, you'll be reclassified."

The clerk ran another celluloid card--this time it was blue--through the stamping machine and
passed it across to Hunter. Captain Hunter picked up his bag and entered the customs booth,
which by that time was empty. The probe lights glowed from the walls and ceiling, efficiently
X-raying his bag and his clothing for any prohibited imports. Within seconds the alarm bell
clanged and the metal doors banged shut, imprisoning Hunter in the booth.

Now what? he asked himself. What regulation had he violated this time? In his mind he inventoried
the contents of his bag. It contained only a handful of personal belongings, and the tools
of trade which he had needed as a captain of a fighting ship. Everything was legitimate and
above-board. Hunter hadn't even brought Ann a souvenir from the frontier.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a time, the booth door swung open. A senior inspector, carrying a blaster, crowded into
the cubicle.

"Open your bag!" The inspector commanded, motioning with his weapon.

Hunter saw that the blaster dial was set to fire the death charge, not the weaker dispersal
charge which produced only an hour's paralysis.

Hunter thumbed the photocell lock. It responded to the individual pattern of his thumbprint,
and the bag fell open. The inspector picked up the worn blaster which lay under Hunter's shipboard
uniform.

"Smuggling firearms, Captain, is a violation of the city code. The fine is--"

"Smuggling?" Hunter exploded. "That blaster was registered to me nine years ago." He snapped
open his wallet.

The inspector frowned over the registration form, biting indecisively at his lower lip.

"That was issued before my time," he alibied. "I'll have to check the regulations. It may take
a while."

He left the booth. He was gone for a quarter of an hour. When he returned, both metal doors
snapped open. "Your permit is valid, Captain Hunter," the inspector admitted. "Unrestricted
registrations like yours have not been issued for the past five years. That's why the probe
was not adjusted to the special conditions which apply in your case. Your permit is revocable
if you are committed for maladjustment."

Hunter grinned. "I wouldn't count on that. My adjustment index is zero-zero."

"A paragon, Captain." The voice was dry and biting. "But you may find conditions on the Earth
a little trying. You haven't had a chance to get really well-acquainted with your own world
since you were a kid of sixteen."

Hunter's customs clearance had taken more than an hour. Before he left the municipal building,
he made a quick tour of the lobby, searching again for Ann Saymer. Satisfied that she had not
come, he put in a call from a public tele-booth to Ann's apartment residence. After a moment,
Mrs. Ames' face came into sharp focus on the screen, the light coalescing about her hair.

A warm, motherly widow of nearly eighty, Mrs. Ames had been the residence's owner for a decade,
and had taken a great deal of vicarious pleasure in Ann's romance with the captain. "It's so
different," she said once to Hunter, "your faith in each other, the way you work together for
a goal you both want. If the rest of us could only learn to have some honest affection for
each other. But, there, I'm an old woman, living too much in the past."

As soon as Hunter saw her face on the screen, he knew that something was wrong. She was tense
and nervous, tied in the emotional knots of an anxiety neurosis. And Mrs. Ames was not the
woman to fall easy victim to mental illness. If Hunter had been guessing the odds, he would
have put her adjustment index on a par with his own.

"I haven't seen Ann for a month," she told him.

"Where is she? My last micropic from her said something about a commission-job--"

"She's all right, Max. Did you join the U.F.W.?"

"I'll be damned if I will."

Why had she asked him that? Her question seemed totally unrelated to her reassurance as to
Ann--another clear symptom of her emotional unbalance.

"About Ann, Mrs. Ames," he persisted. "Do you know what clinic gave her the commission?"

Mrs. Ames stared at him in surprise. "Ann didn't tell you in her micropic?"

"We use a personal code," he explained. "That makes a certain type of communication extremely
difficult."

"I didn't see her, Max. After she took the commission some men came for her things. They brought
me a note from Ann, but it didn't tell me where she was. It just authorized the men to move
out her belongings."

"Is the work outside of Los Angeles? Do you know that much?"

"At first I guessed--" She broke off, biting her lip, and her face twisted in an agony of intense
feeling. "No, Max, an old woman's guesses won't help. I can't tell you any more about it."

"I'll come out and see you this afternoon, Mrs. Ames," he promised, "after I check in at the
Roost. I want to look at that note you had from Ann."

III

Captain Hunter left the municipal building and stood on the transit platform. It was blazing
hot in the noon sun, and he considered chartering an autojet to the city, as he always had
before. But though a jet was faster than the monorail it was also more expensive. Acutely mindful
that he had left the service and would earn no more juicy credit bonuses, he took the monorail
instead.

He had only a ten-minute wait before a crowded car screamed to a stop at the port station.
Hunter went aboard, along with four passengers from recent inbound flights--laboring class
tourists returning from vacations on one of the planetoid resorts. Since a majority of the
people who passed through the spaceport were executives or professionals, they used the autojets.

Hunter's uniform set him apart. A spaceman was expected to live high, to throw away credits
like the glamor heroes on the Tri-D space dramas.

The monorail car was crowded, primarily with afternoon-shift workers on their way to the industrial
area. They all wore on their tunics the discs of the Union of Free Workers. The four tourists
who went aboard at the spaceport with Hunter pulled out their U.F.W. badges and pinned them
on. They belonged. Hunter didn't.

He found an empty chair at the rear of the car, beside a gaudily attired woman, whose union
disc proclaimed her a member of Local 47, the Recreational Companion Union. What miracles we
perform, Hunter thought, with a judicial selection of innocuous words!

He glanced at the woman. She was past the first bloom of youth and her face, under her makeup,
was heavily lined, her eyes shrewd and observing. Had he known that she had been shadowing
him almost from the instant of his arrival in Los Angeles, and had been awaiting his return
to Earth in obedience to carefully formulated instructions he would not have regarded her so
complacently.

The monorail shot up toward the Palms-Pine pass of the San Jacinto Mountains. From the crest
of the grade Hunter could look back at the flat, cemented field of the spaceport and the ragged
teeth of the launching tubes rearing high on the Mojave. Ahead of him, misted by the blue haze
of industrial smog, was Los Angeles, the capital city of Sector West--and indirectly the capital
of the entire planet.

Almost indistinct against the horizon were the soaring, Babel towers, the tangled network of
walk-levels, jet-ways and private landing flats, which was the center-city. The lower, bulky
factory buildings squatted under the towers and spreading outward from them, like concentric
rings made by a stone hurled into a quiet pool, was the monotonous clutter of the minimum-housing.

The city sprawled from San Diego to Santa Barbara, and it lapped against the arid Mojave to
the east. Beyond were the suburban homes of laborers and low-echelon executives who had carved
brass-knuckled niches for themselves in the medium-income bracket.

Hunter saw the panoramic view of Sector West for only a split-second before the monorail car
screamed down through the layer of gray haze. For thirty minutes the car shot across the minimum-housing
area, stopping from time to time at high-platformed stations.

In the industrial district the car emptied rapidly. Only Hunter and his faded seat companion
got out at the turnaround terminal and took the slideway to center-city. In the metro-entry
at the top of the stairs they went through a security check station manned by six blaster-armed
police guards.

Half of the guards wore the insignia of Consolidated Solar Industries and half of United Research,
the two titan cartels which were locked in deadly battle for the empire beyond the stars.

The government played it safe, Hunter thought with bitterness, using an equal number of police
from each organization. On Earth the pacific balance of commercial power was never disturbed--not,
at least, on the surface. The two imperial giants lived side by side in a tactful display of peace.

On the frontier the real conflict raged, fought with all the weapons of treachery and an arsenal
of highly refined atomic weapons--the blaster which could tear a man into component elements,
and the L-bombs that were capable of turning a young sun into a nova.

The woman passed through the security check with no trouble. The men knew her and made only
a perfunctory examination of her cards. But Hunter again had difficulty because of the blaster
in his bag. His registered permit carried no weight with the guards. It was not their duty
to execute existing law, but to protect their private employers.

However, the Consolidated insignia on Hunter's jacket made the three Consolidated guards ready
to honor his permit. Eventually they persuaded the opposition to pass Hunter into the city,
on the ground that the captain's zero-zero adjustment index indicated that it was safe for
him to carry arms.

When Hunter went through the probe, he found the woman waiting for him. During the half-hour
ride from the spaceport, he had tried twice to start a conversation with her, and failed. Now,
abruptly, her face was animated with interest. She put her arm through his and walked with
him to the lift shaft.

"So you got away with it, Captain." Since it was long-standing fashion, she had trained her
voice to sound low-pitched and husky. "I mean, bringing a blaster into center-city."

"Why all this fuss about a gun?" Hunter asked.

"It's a new government regulation," she told him.

"The government doesn't make the law," he reminded her. "The cartels do."

"The last fiscal mental health report showed the percentage of maladjusted--" She laughed throatily.
"I wish we'd use words honestly! The survey showed the lunatic percentage is still increasing.
The cartels are using that report as an excuse to keep the people unarmed."

Hunter was regarding her steadily. "Why?" he asked.

"We're not as content with our world as we're supposed to be," she said. "Eric Young can't
keep all of us in line forever. Captain, we could use your blaster. It's next to impossible
to get one these days. I could make it worth your while--"

"It's registered to me," Hunter pointed out.

"I'll change the serial," was her instant reply. "Your name wouldn't be involved."

"No, I want to keep it."

"To use yourself?"

"Don't talk nonsense," he said. "This isn't the frontier."

He made the denial vehemently, but deep in his mind he had an uncertain feeling that her guess
was right. Earth was not the battle-ground, but it had spawned the conflict. The appearance
of peace was a sham. Here the battle was fought with more subtlety, but the objective remained
the same.

If Ann Saymer had somehow been caught in the no-man's-land between the two cartels--It was
the first time that thought had occurred to Hunter, and it filled him with a dread foreboding.

The woman sensed his feeling. He saw a smile on her curving lips. She said softly, "So even
a spaceman sometimes has his doubts."

"I left the service this morning," he said. Suddenly he was telling her all about himself and
Ann. It was unwise, perhaps even dangerous. But he had to unburden himself to someone or run
the risk of losing his emotional control.

"So now you've lost this--this ambitious woman of yours," she said when he had finished.

"No," he protested. "I won't let myself believe that. Once I did--"

"As well as her interesting invention--the Exorciser," she went on relentlessly. "Have you
ever wondered, Captain Hunter, what might happen if the platinum grid was not removed from
a patient's brain?"

"No, but I suppose--I suppose he'd remain in control of the operator of the transmitter."

She nodded. "He'd become a perfectly adjusted specimen with a zero-zero index, but--he'd also
become a human robot with no will of his own."

"But Ann wouldn't--"

"Not Ann, Captain. Not the girl you've waited so long to marry. All she wants is a clinic of
her own so that she can help the maladjusted. But don't forget--she holds a priceless patent.
Keep your blaster, my friend. I've an idea you may need it."

He gripped her wrist. "You know something about this?"

"I know the world we live in--nothing more."

"But you're guessing--"

"Later, Captain, after you start putting some facts together on your own." She pulled away
from him. "If you want to find me again--and I think you will--look for me in Number thirty-four
on the amusement level. Ask for Dawn."

Suddenly, for no reason that he could explain, he had for her a great sympathy. She was no
ordinary woman. Her discernment was extraordinary, and she possessed, in addition, a strangely
elusive charm.

They rode the lift as it moved up through the city level in its transparent, fairy-world shaft.
Dawn got out first, at the mid-city walk-way where the cheapest shops and the gaudiest entertainment
houses were crammed together. Dazzling in the glare of colored lights, the mid-city never slept.
It was always thronged. It was the only area of the heartland--except for the top level casinos--open
to every citizen without restriction.

On the levels immediately above it were the specialty shops, dealing in luxuries for the suburbanites
who had fought, schemed and bribed their way out of the minimum housing. Higher still was the
sector given over to the less expensive commercial hotels.

The upper levels were occupied by cartel executive offices and at the top, high enough to escape
the smog and feel the warmth of the sun, were the fabulous casino resorts, the mansions built
by the family dynasts who controlled the cartels, and the modest, limestone building housing
the mockery which passed as government.

IV

