BLACKWOOD'S

                          Edinburgh

                          MAGAZINE.

                          VOL. LVI.

                     JULY-DECEMBER, 1844.

                           1844.

             *       *       *       *       *

                        BLACKWOOD'S

                      EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

             *       *       *       *       *

             No. CCCXLV. JULY, 1844. VOL. LVI.

             *       *       *       *       *

                            CONTENTS.

      CAUSES OF THE INCREASE OF CRIME
      THE HEART OF THE BRUCE
      MEMORANDUMS OF A MONTH'S TOUR IN SICILY
      THE LAST OF THE KNIGHTS
      POEMS AND BALLADS OF GOETHE. NO. I.
      MY FIRST LOVE.--A SKETCH IN NEW YORK
      HYDRO-BACCHUS
      MARTIN LUTHER.--AN ODE
      TRADITIONS AND TALES OF UPPER LUSATIA. NO. II. THE FAIRY TUTOR
      PORTUGAL
      MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN. PART XII.

             *       *       *       *       *

            No. CCCXLV.   JULY, 1844.   VOL. LVI.

             *       *       *       *       *

CAUSES OF THE INCREASE OF CRIME.

If the past increase and present amount of crime in the British islands be alone considered,
it must afford grounds for the most melancholy forebodings. When we recollect that since the
year 1805, that is, during a period of less than forty years, in the course of which population
has advanced about sixty-five per cent in Great Britain and Ireland, crime in England has increased
seven hundred per cent, in Ireland about eight hundred per cent, and in Scotland above three
thousand six hundred per cent;[1] it is difficult to say what is destined to be the ultimate
fate of a country in which the progress of wickedness is so much more rapid than the increase
of the numbers of the people. Nor is the alarming nature of the prospect diminished by the
reflection, that this astonishing increase in human depravity has taken place during a period
of unexampled prosperity and unprecedented progress, during which the produce of the national
industry had tripled, and the labours of the husbandman kept pace with the vast increase in
the population they were to feed--in which the British empire carried its victorious arms into
every quarter of the globe, and colonies sprang up on all sides with unheard-of rapidity--in
which a hundred thousand emigrants came ultimately to migrate every year from the parent state
into the new regions conquered by its arms, or discovered by its adventure. If this is the
progress of crime during the days of its prosperity, what is it likely to become in those of
its decline, when this prodigious vent for superfluous numbers has come to be in a great measure
closed, and this unheard-of wealth and prosperity has ceased to gladden the land?

[Footnote 1: See No. 343, Blackwood's Magazine, p. 534, Vol. lv.]

To discover to what causes this extraordinary increase of crime is to be ascribed, we must
first examine the localities in which it has principally arisen, and endeavour to ascertain
whether it is to be found chiefly in the agricultural, pastoral, or manufacturing districts.
We must then consider the condition of the labouring classes, and the means provided to restrain
them in the quarters where the progress of crime has been most alarming; and inquire whether
the existing evils are insurmountable and unavoidable, or have arisen from the supineness,
the errors, and the selfishness of man. The inquiry is one of the most interesting which can
occupy the thoughts of the far-seeing and humane; for it involves the temporal and eternal
welfare of millions of their fellow-creatures;--it may well arrest the attention of the selfish,
and divert for a few minutes the profligate from their pursuits; for on it depends whether
the darling wealth of the former is to be preserved or destroyed, and the exciting enjoyments
of the other arrested or suffered to continue.

To elucidate the first of these questions, we subjoin a table, compiled from the Parliamentary
returns, exhibiting the progress of serious crime in the principal counties, agricultural pastoral,
and manufacturing, of the empire, during the last fifteen years. We are unwilling to load our
pages with figures, and are well aware how distasteful they are to a large class of readers;
and if those results were as familiar to others as they are to ourselves, we should be too
happy to take them for granted, as they do first principles in the House of Commons, and proceed
at once to the means of remedy. But the facts on this subject have been so often misrepresented
by party or prejudice, and are in themselves so generally unknown, that it is indispensable
to lay a foundation in authentic information before proceeding further in the inquiry. The
greatest difficulty which those practically acquainted with the subject experience in such
an investigation, is to make people believe their statements, even when founded on the most
extensive practical knowledge, or the more accurate statistical inquiry. There is such a prodigious
difference between the condition of mankind and the progress of corruption in the agricultural
or pastoral, and manufacturing or densely peopled districts, that those accustomed to the former
will not believe any statements made regarding the latter. They say they are incredible or
exaggerated; that the persons who make them are têtes montées; that their ideas are very vague,
and their suggestions utterly unworthy the consideration either of men of sense or of government.
With such deplorable illusions does ignorance repel the suggestions of knowledge; theory, of
experience; selfishness, of philanthropy; cowardice, of resolution. Thus nothing whatever is
done to remedy or avert the existing evils: the districts not endangered unite as one man to
resist any attempt to form a general system for the alleviation of misery or diminution of
crime in those that are, and the preponderance of the unendangered districts in the legislature
gives them the means of effectually doing so. The evils in the endangered districts are such,
that it is universally felt they are beyond the reach of local remedy or alleviation. Thus,
between the two, nothing whatever is done to arrest, or guard against, the existing or impending
evils. Meanwhile, destitution, profligacy, sensuality, and crime, advance with unheard-of rapidity
in the manufacturing districts, and the dangerous classes there massed together combine every
three or four years in some general strike or alarming insurrection, which, while it lasts,
excites universal terror, and is succeeded, when suppressed, by the same deplorable system
of supineness, selfishness, and infatuation.

[Footnote 2: Table showing the number of committments for serious crimes, and population, in
the year 1841, in the under-mentioned counties of Great Britain;--

  I.--PASTORAL.

  Names of Counties. Population    Commitments        Proportion of
                      in 1841.   for serious crime    committments
                                     in 1841.         to population.

  Cumberland,         178,038          151             1 in  1,194
  Derby,              272,217          277             1 in    964
  Anglesey,            50,891           13             1 in  3,900
  Carnarvon,           81,093           33             1 in  2,452
  Inverness-shire,     97,799          106             1 in    915
  Selkirkshire,         7,990            4             1 in  1,990
  Argyleshire,         97,371           96             1 in  1,010

        Total,        785,399          680             1 in  1,155

  II.-AGRICULTURAL AND MANUFACTURING.

                                   Commitments        Proportion of
                     Population  for serious crime    commitments
  Names of Counties.  in 1841.       in 1841.         to population.

  Shropshire,         239,048          416             1 in    574
  Kent,               548,337          962             1 in    569
  Norfolk,            412,664          666             1 in    518
  Essex,              344,979          647             1 in    533
  Northumberland,     250,278          226             1 in  1,106
  East Lothian,        35,886           38             1 in    994
  Perthshire,         137,390          116             1 in  1,181
  Aberdeenshire,      192,387           92             1 in  2,086

           Total,   2,160,969        3,163             1 in    682

  III.-MANUFACTURING AND MINING.

  Middlesex,        1,576,636        3,586             1 in    439
  Lancashire,       1,667,054        3,987             1 in    418
  Staffordshire,      510,504        1,059             1 in    482
  Yorkshire,        1,591,480        1,895             1 in    839
  Glamorganshire,     171,188          189             1 in    909
  Lanarkshire,        426,972          513             1 in    832
  Renfrewshire        155,072          505             1 in    306
  Forfarshire,        170,520          333             1 in    512

           Total,   6,269,426       12,067             1 in    476

  --PORTER'S Parl. Tables, 1841, 163; and Census 1841.]

The table in the note exhibits the number of commitments for serious offences, with the population
of each, of eight counties--pastoral, agricultural, and manufacturing--in Great Britain during
the year 1841[2]. We take the returns for that year, both because it was the year in which
the census was taken, and because the succeeding year, 1842, being the year of the great outbreak
in England, and violent strike in Scotland, the figures, both in that and the succeeding year,
may be supposed to exhibit a more unfavourable result for the manufacturing districts than
a fair average of years. From this table, it appears that the vast preponderance of crime is
to be found in the manufacturing or densely-peopled districts, and that the proportion per
cent of commitments which they exhibit, as compared with the population, is generally three,
often five times, what appears in the purely agricultural and pastoral districts. The comparative
criminality of the agricultural, manufacturing, and pastoral districts is not to be considered
as accurately measured by these returns, because so many of the agricultural counties, especially
in England, are overspread with towns and manufactories or collieries. Thus Kent and Shropshire
are justly classed with agricultural counties, though part of the former is in fact a suburb
of London, and of the latter overspread with demoralizing coal mines. The entire want of any
police force in some of the greatest manufacturing counties, as Lanarkshire, by permitting
nineteen-twentieths of the crime to go unpunished, exhibits a far less amount of criminality
than would be brought to light under a more vigilant system. But still there is enough in this
table to attract serious and instructive attention. It appears that the average of seven pastoral
counties exhibits an average of 1 commitment for serious offences out of 1155 souls: of eight
counties, partly agricultural and partly manufacturing, of 1 in 682: and of eight manufacturing
and mining, of 1 in 476! And the difference between individual counties is still more remarkable,
especially when counties purely agricultural or pastoral can be compared with those for the
most part manufacturing or mining. Thus the proportion of commitment for serious crime in the
pastoral counties of

  Anglesey, is       1 in 3900
  Carnarvon,         1 in 2452
  Selkirk,           1 in 1990
  Cumberland,        1 in 1194

In the purely agricultural counties of

  Aberdeenshire, is  1 in 2086
  East-Lothian,      1 in  994
  Northumberland,    1 in 1106
  Perthshire,        1 in 1181

While in the great manufacturing or mining counties of

  Lancashire, is     1 in  418
  Staffordshire,     1 in  482
  Middlesex,         1 in  439
  Yorkshire,         1 in  839
  Lanarkshire,       1 in  832[3]
  Renfrewshire,      1 in  306

[Footnote 3: Lanarkshire has no police except in Glasgow, or its serious crime would be about
1 in 400, or 350.]

Further, the statistical returns of crime demonstrate, not only that such is the present state
of crime in the densely peopled and manufacturing districts, compared to what obtains in the
agricultural or pastoral, but that the tendency of matters is still worse;[4] and that, great
as has been the increase of population during the last thirty years in the manufacturing and
densely peopled districts, the progress of crime has been still greater and more alarming.
From the instructive and curious tables below, constructed from the criminal returns given
in Porter's Parliamentary Tables, and the returns of the census taken in 1821, 1831, and 1841,
it appears, that while in some of the purely pastoral counties, such as Selkirk and Anglesey,
crime has remained during the last twenty years nearly stationary, and in some of the purely
agricultural, such as Perth and Aberdeen, it has considerably diminished, in the agricultural
and mining or manufacturing, such as Shropshire and Kent, it has doubled during the same period:
and in the manufacturing and mining districts, such as Lancashire, Staffordshire, Yorkshire,
and Renfrewshire, more than tripled in the same time. It appears, from the same authentic sources
of information, that the progress of crime during the last twenty years has been much more
rapid in the manufacturing and densely peopled than in the simply densely peopled districts;
for in Middlesex, during the last twenty years, population has advanced about fifty per cent,
and serious crime has increased in nearly the same proportion, having swelled from 2480 to
3514: whereas in Lancashire, during the same period, population has advanced also fifty per
cent, but serious crime has considerably more than doubled, having risen from 1716 to 3987.

[Footnote 4: Table, showing the comparative population, and committals for serious crime, in
the under-mentioned counties, in the years 1821, 1831, and 1841.

  I.--PASTORAL

                       1821.             1831.             1841.
                   Pop.     Com.     Pop.     Com.     Pop.     Com.

  Cumberland,     156,124     66    169,681     74    178,038    151
  Derby,          213,333    105    237,070    202    272,217    277
  Anglesey,        43,325     10     48,325      8     50,891     13
  Carnarvon,       57,358     12     66,448     36     81,893     33
  Inverness,       90,157    ...     94,797     35     97,799    106
  Selkirk,          6,637    ...      6,833      2      7,990      4
  Argyle,          97,316    ...    100,973     41     97,321     96

  II.--AGRICULTURAL AND MANUFACTURING.

                       1821.             1831.             1841.
                   Pop.     Com.     Pop.     Com.     Pop.     Com.

  Shropshire,     266,153    159    222,938    228    239,048    416
  Kent,           426,916    492    479,155    640    548,337    962
  Norfolk,        344,368    356    390,054    549    412,664    666
  Essex,          289,424    303    317,507    607    344,979    647
  Northumberland, 198,965     70    222,912    108    250,278    226
  East Lothian,    35,127    ...     36,145     23     35,886     38
  Perthshire,     139,050    ...    142,894    140    137,390    116
  Aberdeenshire,  155,387    ...    177,657    161    192,387     92

  III.--MANUFACTURING AND MINING.

                        1821.             1831.             1841.
                     Pop.   Com.       Pop.   Com.       Pop.   Com.

  Middlesex,    1,144,531  2,480  1,358,330  3,514  1,576,636  3,586
  Lancashire,   1,052,859  1,716  1,336,854  2,352  1,667,054  3,987
  Staffordshire,  345,895    374    410,512    644    510,504  1,059
  Yorkshire,      801,274    757    976,350  1,270  1,154,111  1,895
  Glamorgan,      101,737     28    126,612    132    171,188    189
  Lanark,         244,387    ...    316,849    470    426,972    513
  Renfrew,        112,175    ...    133,443    205    155,072    505
  Forfar,         113,430    ...    139,666    124    l70,520    333

  --PORTER'S Parl. Tables, and Census 1841.]

Here, then, we are at length on firm ground in point of fact. Several writers of the liberal
school who had a partiality for manufactures, because their chief political supporters were
to be found among that class of society, have laboured hard to show that manufactures are noways
detrimental either to health or morals; and that the mortality and crime of the manufacturing
counties were in no respect greater than those of the pastoral or agricultural districts. The
common sense of mankind has uniformly revolted against this absurdity, so completely contrary
to what experience every where tells in a language not to be misunderstood; but it has now
been completely disproved by the Parliamentary returns. The criminal statistics have exposed
this fallacy as completely, in reference to the different degrees of depravity in different
parts of the empire, as the registrar-general's returns have, in regard to the different degrees
of salubrity in employments, and mortality in rural districts and manufacturing places. It
now distinctly appears that crime is greatly more prevalent in proportion to the numbers of
the people in densely peopled than thinly inhabited localities, and that it is making far more
rapid progress in the former situation than the latter. Statistics are not to be despised when
they thus, at once and decisively, disprove errors so assiduously spread, maintained by writers
of such respectability, and supported by such large and powerful bodies in the state.

Nor can it be urged with the slightest degree of foundation, that this superior criminality
of the manufacturing and densely peopled districts is owing to a police force being more generally
established than in the agricultural or pastoral, and thus crime being more thoroughly detected
in the former situation than the latter. For, in the first place, in several of the greatest
manufacturing counties, particularly Lanarkshire in Scotland, there is no police at all; and
the criminal establishment is just what it was forty years ago. In the next place, a police
force is the consequence of a previous vast accumulation or crime, and is never established
till the risk to life and insecurity to property had rendered it unbearable. Being always established
by the voluntary assessment of the inhabitants, nothing can be more certain than that it never
can be called into existence but by such an increase of crime as has rendered it a matter of
necessity.

We are far, however, from having approached the whole truth, if we have merely ascertained,
upon authentic evidence, that crime is greatly more prevalent in the manufacturing than the
rural districts. That will probably be generally conceded; and the preceding details have been
given merely to show the extent of the difference, and the rapid steps which it is taking.
It is more material to inquire what are the causes of this superior profligacy of manufacturing
to rural districts; and whether it arises unavoidably from the nature of their respective employments,
or is in some degree within the reach of human amendment or prevention.

It is usual for persons who are not practically acquainted with the subject, to represent manufacturing
occupations as necessarily and inevitably hurtful to the human mind. The crowding together,
it is said, young persons, of different sexes and in great numbers, in the hot atmosphere and
damp occupations of factories or mines, is necessarily destructive to morality, and ruinous
to regularity of habit. The passions are excited by proximity of situation or indecent exposure;
infant labour early emancipates the young from parental control; domestic subordination, the
true foundation for social virtue, is destroyed; the young exposed to temptation before they
have acquired strength to resist it; and vice spreads the more extensively from the very magnitude
of the establishments on which the manufacturing greatness of the country depends. Such views
are generally entertained by writers on the social state of the country; and being implicitly
adopted by the bulk of the community, the nation has abandoned itself to a sort of despair
on the subject, and regarding manufacturing districts as the necessary and unavoidable hotbed
of crimes, strives only to prevent the spreading of the contagion into the rural parts of the
country.

There is certain degree of truth in these observations; but they are much exaggerated, and
it is not in these causes that the principal sources of the profligacy of the manufacturing
districts is to be found.

The real cause of the demoralization of manufacturing towns is to be found, not in the nature
of the employment which the people there receive, so much as in the manner in which they are
brought together, the unhappy prevalence of general strikes, and the prodigious multitudes
who are cast down by the ordinary vicissitudes of life, or the profligacy of their parents,
into a situation of want, wretchedness, and despair.

Consider how, during the last half century, the people have been brought together in the great
manufacturing districts of England and Scotland. So rapid has been the progress of manufacturing
industry during that period, that it has altogether out-stripped the powers of population in
the districts where it was going forward, and occasioned a prodigious influx of persons from
different and distant quarters, who have migrated from their paternal homes, and settled in
the manufacturing districts, never to return.[5] Authentic evidence proves, that not less than
two millions of persons have, in this way, been transferred to the manufacturing counties of
the north of England within the last forty years, chiefly from the agricultural counties of
the south of that kingdom, or from Ireland. Not less than three hundred and fifty thousand
persons have, during the same period, migrated into the two manufacturing counties of Lanark
and Renfrew alone, in Scotland, chiefly from the Scotch Highlands, or north of Ireland. No
such astonishing migration of the human species in so short a time, and to settle on so small
a space, is on record in the whole annals of the world. It is unnecessary to say that the increase
is to be ascribed chiefly, if not entirely, to immigration; for it is well known that such
is the unhealthiness of manufacturing towns, especially to young children, that, so far from
being able to add to their numbers, they are hardly ever able, without extraneous addition,
to maintain them.

[Footnote 5: Table showing the Population in 1801, 1891, and 1841, in the under-mentioned counties
of Great Britain.

                                                       Increase in
                       1801       1821         1841    forty years.

  Lancashire,         672,731   1,052,859   1,667,054     994,323
  Yorkshire, W.R.,    565,282     801,274   1,154,101     588,819
  Staffordshire,      233,153     343,895     510,504     277,351
  Nottingham,         140,350     186,873     249,910     109,560
  Warwick,            208,190     274,322     401,715     193,155
  Gloucester,         250,809     335,843     431,383     180,574

                    2,070,515   2,995,066   4,412,667   2,343,782

  Lanark,             146,699     244,387     434,972     288,273
  Renfrew,             78,056     112,175     155,072      77,016

                      224,755     356,562     590,044     365,289

  --Census of 1841. Preface, p. 8 and 9.]

Various causes have combined to produce demoralization among the vast crowd, thus suddenly
attracted, by the alluring prospect of high wages and steady employment, from the rural to
the manufacturing districts. In the first place, they acquired wealth before they had learned
how to use it, and that is, perhaps, the most general cause of the rapid degeneracy of mankind.
High wages flowed in upon them before they had acquired the artificial wants in the gratification
of which they could be innocently spent. Thence the general recourse to the grosser and sensual
enjoyments, which are powerful alike on the savage and the sage. Men who, in the wilds of Ireland
or the mountains of Scotland, were making three or four shillings a-week, or in Sussex ten,
suddenly found themselves, as cotton-spinners, iron-moulders, colliers, or mechanics, in possession
of from twenty to thirty shillings. Meanwhile, their habits and inclinations had undergone
scarce any alteration; they had no taste for comfort in dress, lodging, or furniture; and as
to laying by money, the thing, of course, was not for a moment thought of. Thus, this vast
addition to their incomes was spent almost exclusively on eating and drinking. The extent to
which gross sensual enjoyment was thus spread among these first settlers in the regions of
commercial opulence, is incredible. It is an ascertained fact, that above a million a-year
is annually spent in Glasgow on ardent spirits;[6] and it has recently been asserted by a respectable
and intelligent operative in Manchester, that, in that city, 750,000 more is annually spent
on beer and spirits, than on the purchase of provisions. Is it surprising that a large part
of the progeny of a generation which has embraced such habits, should be sunk in sensuality
and profligacy, and afford a never-failing supply for the prisons and transport ships? It is
the counterpart of the sudden corruption which invariably overtakes northern conquerors, when
they settle in the regions of southern opulence.

[Footnote 6: ALISON on Population, ii. Appendix A.]

Another powerful cause which promotes the corruption of men, when thus suddenly congregated
together from different quarters in the manufacturing districts, is, that the restraints of
character, relationship, and vicinity are, in a great measure, lost in the crowd. Every body
knows what powerful influence public opinion, or the opinion of their relations, friends, and
acquaintances, exercises on all men in their native seats, or when living for any length of
time in one situation. It forms, in fact, next to religion, the most powerful restraint on
vice, and excitement to virtue, that exists in the world. But when several hundred thousand
of the working classes are suddenly huddled together in densely peopled localities, this invaluable
check is wholly lost. Nay, what is worse, it is rolled over to the other side; and forms an
additional incentive to licentiousness. The poor in these situations have no neighbours who
care for them, or even know their names; but they are surrounded by multitudes who are willing
to accompany them in the career of sensuality. They are unknown alike to each other, and to
any persons of respectability or property in their vicinity. Philanthropy seeks in vain for
virtue amidst thousands and tens of thousands of unknown names; charity itself is repelled
by the hopelessness of all attempts to relieve the stupendous mass of destitution which follows
in the train of such enormous accumulation of numbers. Every individual or voluntary effort
is overlooked amidst the prodigious multitude, as it was in the Moscow campaign of Napoleon.
Thus the most powerful restraints on human conduct--character, relations, neighbourhood--are
lost upon mankind at the very time when their salutary influence is most required to enable
them to withstand the increasing temptations arising from density of numbers and a vast increase
of wages. Multitudes remove responsibility without weakening passion. Isolation ensures concealment
without adding to resolution. This is the true cause of the more rapid deterioration of the
character of the poor than the rich, when placed in such dense localities. The latter have
a neighbourhood to watch them, because their station renders them conspicuous--the former have
none. Witness the rapid and general corruption of the higher ranks, when they get away from
such restraint, amidst the profligacy of New South Wales.

In the foremost rank of the causes which demoralize the urban and mining population, we must
place the frequency of those strikes which unhappily have now become so common as to be of
more frequent occurrence than a wet season, even in our humid climate. During the last twenty
years there have been six great strikes: viz. in 1826, 1828, 1834, 1837, 1842, and 1844. All
of these have kept multitudes of the labouring poor idle for months together. Incalculable
is the demoralization thus produced upon the great mass of the working classes. We speak not
of the actual increase of commitments during the continuance of a great strike, though that
increase is so considerable that it in general augments them in a single year from thirty to
fifty per cent.[7] We allude to the far more general and lasting causes of demoralization which
arise from the arraying of one portion of the community in fierce hostility against another,
the wretchedness which is spread among multitudes by months of compulsory idleness, and the
not less ruinous effect of depriving them of occupation during such protracted periods. When
we recollect that such is the vehemence of party feeling produced by these disastrous combinations,
that it so far obliterates all sense of right and wrong as generally to make their members
countenance contumely and insult, sometimes even robbery, fire-raising, and murder, committed
on innocent persons who are only striving to earn an honest livelihood for themselves by hard
labour, but in opposition to the strike; and that it induces twenty and thirty thousand persons
to yield implicit obedience to the commands of an unknown committee, who have power to force
them to do what the Sultan Mahmoud, or the Committee of Public Safety, never ventured to attempt--to
abstain from labour, and endure want and starvation for months together, for an object of which
they often in secret disapprove--it may be conceived how wide-spread and fatal is the confusion
of moral principle, and habits of idleness and insubordination thus produced. Their effects
invariably appear for a course of years afterwards, in the increased roll of criminal commitments,
and the number of young persons of both sexes, who, loosened by these protracted periods of
idleness, never afterwards regain habits of regularity and industry. Nor is the evil lessened
by the blind infatuation with which it is uniformly regarded by the other classes of the community,
and the obstinate resistance they make to all measures calculated to arrest the violence of
these combinations, in consequence of the expense with which they would probably be attended--a
supineness which, by leaving the coast constantly clear to the terrors of such associations,
and promising impunity to their crimes, operates as a continual bounty on their recurrence.

[Footnote 7:

  Commitments:--
            Lanarkshire.   Lancashire.   Staffordshire.   Yorkshire.
  1836         451            2,265           686           1,252
  1837[8]      565            2,809           909           1,376
  1841         513            3,987         1,059           1,895
  1842[9]      696            4,497         1,485           2,598

  PORTER'S Parl. Tables, xi. 162.--Parl. Paper of Crime,
  1843, p. 53.]

[Footnote 8: Strike.]

[Footnote 9: Strike.]

Infant labour, unhappily now so frequent in all kinds of factories, and the great prevalence
of female workers, is another evil of a very serious kind in the manufacturing districts. We
do not propose to enter into the question, recently so fiercely agitated in the legislature,
as to the practicability of substituting a compulsory ten-hours' bill for the twelve hours'
at present in operation. Anxious to avoid all topics on which there is a difference of opinion
among able and patriotic men, we merely state this prevalence and precocity of juvenile labour
in the manufacturing and mining districts as a fact which all must deplore, and which is attended
with the most unhappy effects on the rising generation. The great majority, probably nine-tenths,
of all the workers in cotton-mills or printfields, are females. We have heard much of the profligacy
and licentiousness which pervade such establishments; but though that may be too true in some
cases, it is far from being universal, or even general; and there are numerous instances of
female virtue being as jealously guarded and effectually preserved in such establishments,
as in the most secluded rural districts. The real evils--and they follow universally from such
employment of juvenile females in great numbers in laborious but lucrative employment--are
the emancipation of the young from parental control, the temptation held out to idleness in
the parents from the possibility of living on their children, and the disqualifying the girls
for performing all the domestic duties of wives and mothers in after life.

These evils are real, general, and of ruinous consequence. When children--from the age of nine
or ten in some establishments, of thirteen or fourteen in all--are able to earn wages varying
from 3s. 6d. to 6s. a-week, they soon become in practice independent of parental control. The
strongest of all securities for filial obedience--a sense of dependence--is destroyed. The
children assert the right of self-government, because they bear the burden of self-maintenance.
Nature, in the ordinary case, has effectually guarded against this premature and fatal emancipation
of the young, by the protracted period of weakness during childhood and adolescence, which
precludes the possibility of serious labour being undertaken before the age when a certain
degree of mental firmness has been acquired. But the steam-engine, amidst its other marvels,
has entirely destroyed, within the sphere of its influence, this happy and necessary exemption
of infancy from labour. Steam is the moving power; it exerts the strength; the human machine
is required only to lift a web periodically, or damp a roller, or twirl a film round the finger,
to which the hands of infancy are as adequate as those of mature age. Hence the general employment
of children, and especially girls, in such employments. They are equally serviceable as men
or women, and they are more docile, cheaper, and less given to strikes. But as these children
earn their own subsistence, they soon become rebellious to parental authority, and exercise
the freedom of middle life as soon as they feel its passions, and before they have acquired
its self-control.

If the effect of such premature emancipation of the young is hurtful to them, it is, if possible,
still more pernicious to their parents. Labour is generally irksome to man; it is seldom persevered
in after the period of its necessity has passed. When parents find that, by sending three or
four children out to the mills or into the mines, they can get eighteen or twenty shillings
a-week without doing any thing themselves, they soon come to abridge the duration and cost
of education, in order to accelerate the arrival of the happy period when they may live on
their offspring, not their offspring on them. Thus the purest and best affections of the heart
are obliterated on the very threshold of life. That best school of disinterestedness and virtue,
the domestic hearth, where generosity and self-control are called forth in the parents, and
gratitude and affection in the children, from the very circumstance of the dependence of the
latter on the former, is destroyed. It is worse than destroyed, it is made the parent of wickedness:
it exists, but it exists only to nourish the selfish and debasing passions. Children come to
be looked on, not as objects of affection, but as instruments of gain; not as forming the first
duty of life and calling forth its highest energies, but as affording the first means of relaxing
from labour, and permitting a relapse into indolence and sensuality. The children are, practically
speaking, sold for slaves, and--oh! unutterable horror!--the sellers are their own parents!
Unbounded is the demoralization produced by this monstrous perversion of the first principles
of nature. Thence it is that it is generally found, that all the beneficent provisions of the
legislature for the protection of infant labour are so generally evaded, as to render it doubtful
whether any law, how stringent soever, could protect them. The reason is apparent. The parents
of the children are the chief violators of the law; for the sake of profit they send them out,
the instant they can work, to the mills or the mines. Those whom nature has made their protectors,
have become their oppressors. The thirst for idleness, intoxication, or sensuality, has turned
the strongest of the generous, into the most malignant of the selfish passions.

The habits acquired by such precocious employment of young women, are not less destructive
of their ultimate utility and respectability in life. Habituated from their earliest years
to one undeviating mechanical employment, they acquire great skill in it, but grow up utterly
ignorant of any thing else. We speak not of ignorance of reading or writing, but of ignorance
in still more momentous particulars, with reference to their usefulness in life as wives and
mothers. They can neither bake nor brew, wash nor iron, sew nor knit. The finest London lady
is not more utterly inefficient than they are, for any other object but the one mechanical
occupation to which they have been habituated. They can neither darn a stocking nor sew on
a button. As to making porridge or washing a handkerchief, the thing is out of the question.
Their food is cooked out of doors by persons who provide the lodging-houses in which they dwell--they
are clothed from head to foot, like fine ladies, by milliners and dressmakers. This is not
the result of fashion, caprice, or indolence, but of the entire concentration of their faculties,
mental and corporeal, from their earliest years, in one limited mechanical object. They are
unfit to be any man's wife--still more unfit to be any child's mother. We hear little of this
from philanthropists or education-mongers; but it is, nevertheless, not the least, because
the most generally diffused, evil connected with our manufacturing industry.

But by far the greatest cause of the mass of crime of the manufacturing and mining districts
of the country, is to be found in the prodigious number of persons, especially in infancy,
who are reduced to a state of destitution, and precipitated into the very lowest stations of
life, in consequence of the numerous ills to which all flesh--but especially all flesh in manufacturing
communities--is heir. Our limits preclude the possibility of entering into all the branches
of this immense subject; we shall content ourselves, therefore, with referring to one, which
seems of itself perfectly sufficient to explain the increase of crime, which at first sight
appears so alarming. This is the immense proportion of destitute widows with families, who
in such circumstances find themselves immovably fixed in places where they can neither bring
up their children decently, nor get away to other and less peopled localities.

From the admirable statistical returns of the condition of the labouring poor in France, prepared
for the Bureau de l'Intérieure, it appears that the number of widows in that country amounts
to the enormous number of 1,738,000.[10] This, out of a population now of about 34,000,000,
is as nearly as possible one in twenty of the entire population! Population is advancing much
more rapidly in Great Britain than France; for in the former country it is doubling in about
60 years, in the latter in 106. It is certain, therefore, that the proportion of widows must
be greater in this country than in France, especially in the manufacturing districts, where
early marriages, from the ready employment for young children, are so frequent; and early deaths,
from the unhealthiness of employment or contagious disorders, are so common. But call the proportion
the same: let it be taken at a twentieth part of the existing population. At this rate, the
two millions of strangers who, during the last forty years, have been thrown into the four
northern counties of Lancaster, York, Stafford, and Warwick, must contain at this moment a
hundred thousand widows. The usual average of a family is two and a half children--call it
two only. There will thus be found to be 200,000 children belonging to these 100,000 widows.
It is hardly necessary to say, that the great majority, probably four-fifths of this immense
body, must be in a state of destitution. We know in what state the fatherless and widows are
in their affliction, and who has commanded us to visit them. On the most moderate calculation,
250,000, or an eighth of the whole population, must be in a state of poverty and privation.
And in Scotland, where, during the same period of forty years, 350,000 strangers have been
suddenly huddled together on the banks of the Clyde, the proportion may be presumed to be the
same; or, in other words, thirty thousand widows and orphans are constantly there in a state
deserving of pity, and requiring support, hardly any of whom receive more from the parish funds
than a shilling a-week, even for the maintenance of a whole family.

The proportion of widows and orphans to the entire population, though without doubt in some
degree aggravated by the early marriages and unhealthy employments incident to manufacturing
districts, may be supposed to be not materially different in one age, or part of the country,
from another. The widow and the orphan, as well as the poor, will be always with us; but the
peculiar circumstance which renders their condition so deplorable in the dense and suddenly
peopled manufacturing districts is, that the poor have been brought together in such prodigious
numbers that all the ordinary means of providing for the relief of such casualties fails; while
the causes of mortality among them are periodically so fearful, as to produce a vast and sudden
increase of the most destitute classes altogether outstripping all possible means of local
or voluntary relief. During the late typhus fever in Glasgow, in the years 1836 and 1837, above
30,000 of the poor took the epidemic, of whom 3300 died.[11] In the first eight months of 1843
alone, 32,000 persons in Glasgow were seized with fever.[12] Out of 1000 families, at a subsequent
period, visited by the police, in conjunction with the visitors for the distribution of the
great fund raised by subscription in 1841, 680 were found to be widows, who, with their families,
amounted to above 2000 persons all in the most abject state of wretchedness and want.[13] On
so vast a scale do the causes of human destruction and demoralization act, when men are torn
up from their native seats by the irresistible magnet of commercial wealth, and congregated
together in masses, resembling rather the armies of Timour and Napoleon than any thing else
ever witnessed in the transactions of men.

[Footnote 10: Statistique de la France, publiée par le Gouvernement, viii. 371-4. A most splendid
work.]

[Footnote 11: Fever patients, Glasgow, 1836, 37.

             Fever patients.    Died.
  1836, . .    10,092        .  1187
  1837, . .    21,800        .  2180
               ------           ----
               31,892           3367

--COWAN'S Vital Statistics of Glasgow, 1388, p 8, the work of a most able and meritorious medical
gentleman now no more.]

[Footnote 12: Dr Alison on the Epidemic of 1843, p. 67.]

[Footnote 13: Captain Millar's Report, 1841, p. 8.]

Here, then, is the great source of demoralization, destitution, and crime in the manufacturing
districts. It arises from the sudden congregation of human beings in such fearful multitudes
together, that all the usual alleviations of human suffering, or modes of providing for human
indigence, entirely fail. We wonder at the rapid increase of crime in the manufacturing districts,
forgetting that a squalid mass of two or three hundred thousand human beings are constantly
precipitated to the bottom of society in a few counties, in such circumstances of destitution
that recklessness and crime arise naturally, it may almost be said unavoidably, amongst them.
And it is in the midst of such gigantic causes of evil--of causes arising from the extraordinary
and unparalleled influx of mankind into the manufacturing districts during the last forty years,
which can bear a comparison to nothing but the collection of the host with which Napoleon invaded
Russia, or Timour and Genghis Khan desolated Asia--that we are gravely told that it is to be
arrested by education and moral training; by infant schools and shortened hours of labour;
by multiplication of ministers and solitary imprisonment! All these are very good things; each
in its way is calculated to do a certain amount of good; and their united action upon the whole
will doubtless, in process of time, produce some impression upon the aspect of society, even
in the densely peopled manufacturing districts. As to their producing any immediate effect,
or in any sensible degree arresting the prodigious amount of misery, destitution, and crime
which pervades them, you might as well have tried, by the schoolmaster, to arrest the horrors
of the Moscow retreat.

That the causes which have now been mentioned are the true sources of the rapid progress of
crime and general demoralization of our manufacturing and mining districts, must be evident
to all from this circumstance, well known to all who are practically conversant with the subject,
but to a great degree unattended to by the majority of men, and that is,--that the prodigious
stream of depravity and corruption which prevails, is far from being equally and generally
diffused through society, even in the densely peopled districts where it is most alarming,
but is in a great degree confined to the very lowest class. It is from that lowest class that
nine-tenths of the crime, and nearly all the professional crime, which is felt as so great
an evil in society, flows. Doubtless in all classes there are some wicked, many selfish and
inhumane men; and a beneficent Deity, in the final allotment of rewards and punishments, will
take largely into account both the opportunities of doing well which the better classes have
abused, and the almost invincible causes which so often chain, as it were, the destitute to
recklessness and crime. But still, in examining the classes of society on which the greater
part of the crime comes, it will be found that at least three-fourths, probably nine-tenths,
comes from the very lowest and the most destitute. It is incorrect to say crime is common among
them; in truth, among the young at least, a tendency to it is there all but universal. If we
examine who it is that compose this dismal substratum, this hideous black band of society,
we shall find that it is not made up of any one class more than another--not of factory workers
more than labourers, carters, or miners--but is formed by an aggregate of the most unfortunate
or improvident of all classes, who, variously struck down from better ways by disease, vice,
or sensuality, are now of necessity huddled together by tens of thousands in the dens of poverty,
and held by the firm bond of necessity in the precincts of contagion and crime. Society in
such circumstances resembles the successive bands of which the imagination of Dante has framed
the infernal regions, which contain one concentric circle of horrors and punishments within
another, until, when you arrive at the bottom, you find one uniform mass of crime, blasphemy
and suffering.

We are persuaded there is no person practically acquainted with the causes of immorality and
crime in the manufacturing districts, who will not admit that these are the true ones; and
that the others, about which so much is said by theorists and philanthropists, though not without
influence, are nevertheless trifling in the balance. And what we particularly call the public
attention to is this--Suppose all the remedies which theoretical writers or practical legislators
have put forth and recommended, as singly adequate to remove the evils of the manufacturing
classes, were to be in united operation, they would still leave these gigantic causes of evil
untouched. Let Lord Ashley obtain from a reluctant legislature his ten-hours' bill, and Dr
Chalmers have a clergyman established for every 700 inhabitants; let church extension be pushed
till there is a chapel in every village, and education till there is a school in every street;
let the separate system be universal in prisons, and every criminal be entirely secluded from
vicious contamination; still the great fountains of evil will remain unclosed; still 300,000
widows and orphans will exist in a few counties of England amidst a newly collected and strange
population, steeped in misery themselves, and of necessity breeding up their children in habits
of destitution and depravity; still the poor will be deprived, from the suddenness of their
collection, and the density of their numbers, of any effective control, either from private
character or the opinion of neighbourhood; still individual passion will be inflamed, and individual
responsibility lost amidst multitudes; still strikes will spread their compulsory idleness
amidst tens of thousands, and periodically array the whole working classes under the banners
of sedition, despotism, and murder; still precocious female labour will at once tempt parents
into idleness in middle life, and disqualify children, in youth, for household or domestic
duties. We wish well to the philanthropists: we are far from undervaluing either the importance
or the utility of their labours; but as we have hitherto seen no diminution of crime whatever
from their efforts, so we anticipate a very slow and almost imperceptible improvement in society
from their exertions.

Strong, and in many respects just, pictures of the state of the working classes in the manufacturing
districts, have been lately put forth, and the Perils of the Nation have, with reason, been
thought to be seriously increased by them. Those writers, however, how observant and benevolent
soever, give a partial, and in many respects fallacious view, of the general aspect of society.
After reading their doleful accounts of the general wretchedness, profligacy, and licentiousness
of the working classes, the stranger is astonished, on travelling through England, to behold
green fields and smiling cottages on all sides; to see in every village signs of increasing
comfort, in every town marks of augmented wealth, and the aspect of poverty almost banished
from the land. Nay, what is still more gratifying, the returns of the sanatary condition of
the whole population, though still exhibiting a painful difference between the health and chances
of life in the rural and manufacturing districts, present unequivocal proof of a general amelioration
of the chances of life, and, consequently, of the general wellbeing of the whole community.

How are these opposite statements and appearances to be reconciled? Both are true--the reconciliation
is easy. The misery, recklessness, and vice exist chiefly in one class--the industry, sobriety,
and comfort in another. Each observer tells truly what he sees in his own circle of attention;
he does not tell what, nevertheless, exists, and exercises a powerful influence on society,
of the good which exists in the other classes. If the evils detailed in Lord Ashley's speeches,
and painted with so much force in the Perils of the Nation, were universal, or even general,
society could not hold together for a week. But though these evils are great, sometimes overwhelming
in particular districts, they are far from being general. Nothing effectual has yet been done
to arrest them in the localities or communities where they arise; but they do not spread much
beyond them. The person engaged in the factories are stated by Lord Ashley to be between four
and five hundred thousand: the population of the British islands is above 27,000,000. It is
in the steadiness, industry, and good conduct of a large proportion of this immense majority
that the security is to be found. Observe that industrious and well-doing majority; you would
suppose there is no danger:--observe the profligate and squalid minority; you would suppose
there is no hope.

At present about 60,000 persons are annually committed, in the British islands, for serious
offences[14] worthy of deliberate trial, and above double that number for summary or police
offences. A hundred and eighty thousand persons annually fall under the lash of the criminal
law, and are committed for longer or shorter periods to places of confinement for punishment.
The number is prodigious--it is frightful. Yet it is in all only about 1 in 120 of the population;
and from the great number who are repeatedly committed during the same year, the individuals
punished are not 1 in 200. Such as they are, it may safely be affirmed that four-fifths of
this 180,000 comes out of two or three millions of the community. We are quite sure that 150,000
come from 3,000,000 of the lowest and most squalid of the empire, and not 30,000 from the remaining
24,000,000 who live in comparative comfort. This consideration is fitted both to encourage
hope and awaken shame--hope, as showing from how small a class in society the greater part
of the crime comes, and to how limited a sphere the remedies require to be applied; shame,
as demonstrating how disgraceful has been the apathy, selfishness, and supineness in the other
more numerous and better classes, around whom the evil has arisen, but who seldom interfere,
except to RESIST all measures calculated for its removal.

It is to this subject--the ease with which the extraordinary and unprecedented increase of
crime in the empire might be arrested by proper means and the total inefficiency of all the
remedies hitherto attempted, from the want of practical knowledge on the part of those at the
head of affairs, and an entirely false view of human nature in society generally, that we shall
direct the attention of our readers in a future Number.

[Footnote 14: Viz., in round numbers--

  England,    30,000
  Ireland,    26,000
  Scotland,    4,000
              60,000]

THE HEART OF THE BRUCE.

A BALLAD.

  It was upon an April morn
    While yet the frost lay hoar,
  We heard Lord James's bugle-horn
    Sound by the rocky shore.

  Then down we went, a hundred knights,
    All in our dark array,
  And flung our armour in the ships
    That rode within the bay.

  We spoke not as the shore grew less,
    But gazed in silence back,
  Where the long billows swept away
    The foam behind our track.

  And aye the purple hues decay'd
    Upon the fading hill,
  And but one heart in all that ship
    Was tranquil, cold, and still.

  The good Earl Douglas walk'd the deck,
    And oh, his brow was wan!
  Unlike the flush it used to wear
    When in the battle van.--

  "Come hither, come hither, my trusty knight,
    Sir Simon of the Lee;
  There is a freit lies near my soul
    I fain would tell to thee.

  "Thou knowest the words King Robert spoke
    Upon his dying day,
  How he bade me take his noble heart
    And carry it far away:

  "And lay it in the holy soil
    Where once the Saviour trod,
  Since he might not bear the blessed Cross,
    Nor strike one blow for God.

  "Last night as in my bed I lay,
    I dream'd a dreary dream:--
  Methought I saw a Pilgrim stand
    In the moonlight's quivering beam.

  "His robe was of the azure dye,
    Snow-white his scatter'd hairs,
  And even such a cross he bore
    As good Saint Andrew bears.

  "'Why go ye forth, Lord James,' he said,
    'With spear and belted brand?
  Why do ye take its dearest pledge
    From this our Scottish land?

  "'The sultry breeze of Galilee
    Creeps through its groves of palm,
  The olives on the Holy Mount
    Stand glittering in the calm.

  "'But 'tis not there that Scotland's heart
    Shall rest by God's decree,
  Till the great angel calls the dead
    To rise from earth and sea!

  "'Lord James of Douglas, mark my rede
    That heart shall pass once more
  In fiery fight against the foe,
    As it was wont of yore.

  "'And it shall pass beneath the Cross,
    And save King Robert's vow,
  But other hands shall bear it back,
    Not, James of Douglas, thou!'

  "Now, by thy knightly faith, I pray,
    Sir Simon of the Lee--
  For truer friend had never man
    Than thou hast been to me--

  "If ne'er upon the Holy Land
    'Tis mine in life to tread,
  Bear thou to Scotland's kindly earth
    The relics of her dead."

  The tear was in Sir Simon's eye
    As he wrung the warrior's hand--
  "Betide me weal, betide me woe,
    I'll hold by thy command.

  "But if in battle front, Lord James,
    'Tis ours once more to ride,
  Nor force of man, nor craft of fiend,
    Shall cleave me from thy side!"

  And aye we sail'd, and aye we sail'd,
    Across the weary sea,
  Until one morn the coast of Spain
    Rose grimly on our lee.

  And as we rounded to the port,
    Beneath the watch-tower's wall,
  We heard the clash of the atabals,
    And the trumpet's wavering call.

  "Why sounds yon Eastern music here
    So wantonly and long,
  And whose the crowd of armed men
    That round yon standard throng?'

  "The Moors have come from Africa
    To spoil and waste and slay,
  And Pedro, King of Arragon,
    Must fight with them to-day."

  "Now shame it were," cried good Lord James,
    "Shall never be said of me,
   That I and mine have turn'd aside,
    From the Cross in jeopardie!

  "Have down, have down my merry men all--
    Have down unto the plain;
   We'll let the Scottish lion loose
    Within the fields of Spain!"--

  "Now welcome to me, noble lord,
    Thou and thy stalwart power;
   Dear is the sight of a Christian knight
    Who comes in such an hour!

  "Is it for bond or faith ye come,
    Or yet for golden fee?
  Or bring ye France's lilies here,
    Or the flower of Burgundie?'

  "God greet thee well, thou valiant King,
    Thee and thy belted peers--
  Sir James of Douglas am I call'd,
    And these are Scottish spears.

  "We do not fight for bond or plight,
    Nor yet for golden fee;
  But for the sake of our blessed Lord,
    That died Upon the tree.

  "We bring our great King Robert's heart
    Across the weltering wave,
  To lay it in the holy soil
    Hard by the Saviour's grave.

  "True pilgrims we, by land or sea,
    Where danger bars the way;
  And therefore are we here, Lord King,
    To ride with thee this day!"

  The King has bent his stately head,
    And the tears were in his eyne--
  "God's blessing on thee, noble knight,
    For this brave thought of thine!

  "I know thy name full well, Lord James,
    And honour'd may I be,
  That those who fought beside the Bruce
    Should fight this day for me!

  The Douglas turned towards us then,
    Oh, but his glance was high!--
  "There is not one of all my men
    But is as bold as I.

  "There is not one of all my knights
    But bears as true a spear--
  Then onwards! Scottish gentlemen,
    And think--King Robert's here!"

  The trumpets blew, the cross-bolts flew,
    The arrows flash'd like flame,
  As spur in side, and spear in rest,
    Against the foe we came.

  And many a bearded Saracen
    Went down, both horse and man;
  For through their ranks we rode like corn,
    So furiously we ran!

  But in behind our path they closed,
    Though fain to let us through,
  For they were forty thousand men,
    And we were wondrous few.

  We might not see a lance's length,
    So dense was their array,
  But the long fell sweep of the Scottish blade
    Still held them hard at bay.

  "Make in! make in!" Lord Douglas cried,
    "Make in, my brethren dear!
  Sir William of St Clair is down,
    We may not leave him here!"

  But thicker, thicker, grew the swarm,
    And sharper shot the rain,
  And the horses rear'd amid the press,
    But they would not charge again.

  "Now Jesu help thee," said Lord James,
    "Thou kind and true St Clair!
  An' if I may not bring thee off,
    I'll die beside thee there!"

  Then in his stirrups up he stood,
    So lionlike and bold,
  And held the precious heart aloft
    All in its case of gold.

  He flung it from him, far ahead,
    And never spake he more,
  But--"Pass thee first, thou dauntless heart,
    As thou were wont of yore!"

  The roar of fight rose fiercer yet,
    And heavier still the stour,
  Till the spears of Spain came shivering in
    And swept away the Moor.

  "Now praised be God, the day is won!
    They fly o'er flood and fell--
  Why dost thou draw the rein so hard,
    Good knight, that fought so well?"

  "Oh, ride ye on, Lord King!" he said,
    "And leave the dead to me,
  For I must keep the dreariest watch
    That ever I shall dree!

  "There lies beside his master's heart
    The Douglas, stark and grim;
  And woe is me I should be here,
    Not side by side with him!

  "The world grows cold, my arm is old,
    And thin my lyart hair,
  And all that I loved best on earth
    Is stretch'd before me there.

  "O Bothwell banks! that bloom so bright,
    Beneath the sun of May,
  The heaviest cloud that ever blew
    Is bound for you this day.

  "And, Scotland, thou may'st veil thy head
    In sorrow and in pain;
  The sorest stroke upon thy brow
    Hath fallen this day in Spain!

  "We'll bear them back into our ship,
    We'll bear them o'er the sea,
  And lay them in the hallow'd earth,
    Within our own countrie.

  "And be thou strong of heart, Lord King,
    For this I tell thee sure,
  The sod that drank the Douglas' blood
    Shall never bear the Moor!"

  The King he lighted from his horse,
    He flung his brand away,
  And took the Douglas by the hand,
    So stately as he lay.

  "God give thee rest, thou valiant soul,
    That fought so well for Spain;
  I'd rather half my land were gone,
    So thou wert here again!"

  We bore the good Lord James away,
    And the priceless heart he bore,
  And heavily we steer'd our ship
    Towards the Scottish shore.

  No welcome greeted our return,
    Nor clang of martial tread,
  But all were dumb and hush'd as death
    Before the mighty dead.

  We laid the Earl in Douglas Kirk,
    The heart in fair Melrose;
  And woful men were we that day--
    God grant their souls repose!
                               W.E.A.

MEMORANDUMS OF A MONTH'S TOUR IN SICILY.

THE MUSEUM OF PALERMO.

The museum of Palermo is a small but very interesting collection of statues and other sculpture,
gathered chiefly, they say, from the ancient temples of Sicily, with a few objects bestowed
out of the superfluities of Pompeii. In the lower room are some good bas-reliefs, to which
a story is attached. They were discovered fifteen years ago at Selinuntium by some young Englishmen,
the reward of four months' labour. Our guide, who had been also theirs, had warned them not
to stay after the month of June, when malaria begins. They did stay. All (four) took the fever;
one died of it in Palermo, and the survivors were deprived by the government--that is, by the
king--of the spoils for which they had suffered so much and worked so hard. No one is permitted
to excavate without royal license; excavation is, like Domitian's fish, res fisci. Even Mr
Fagan, who was consul at Palermo, having made some interesting underground discoveries, was
deprived of them. We saw here a fine Esculapius, in countenance and expression exceedingly
like the Ecce Homo of Leonardo da Vinci, with all that god-like compassion which the great
painter had imparted without any sacrifice of dignity. He holds a poppy-head, which we do not
recollect on his statue or gems, and the Epidaurian snake is at his side. Up-stairs we saw
specimens of fruits from Pompeii, barley, beans, the carob pod, pine kernels, as well as bread,
sponge, linen: and the sponge was obviously such, and so was the linen. A bronze Hercules treading
on the back of a stag, which he has overtaken and subdued, is justly considered as one of the
most perfect bronzes discovered at Pompeii. A head of our Saviour, by Corregio, is exquisite
in conception, and such as none but a person long familiar with the physiognomy of suffering
could have accomplished. These are exceptions rather than specimens. The pictures, in general,
are poor in interest; and a long gallery of casts of the chef-d'oeuvres of antiquity possessed
by the capitals of Italy, Germany, England, and France, looks oddly here, and shows the poverty
of a country which had been to the predatory proconsuls of Rome an inexhaustible repertory
of the highest treasures of art. A VERRES REDIVIVUS would now find little to carry off but
toys made of amber, lava snuff-boxes, and WODEHOUSE'S MARSALA--one of which he certainly would
not guess the age of, and the other of which he would not drink.

LUNATIC ASYLUM.

We saw nothing in this house or its arrangements to make us think it superior, or very different
from others we had visited elsewhere. The making a lunatic asylum a show-place for strangers
is to be censured; indeed, we heard Esquirol observe, that nothing was so bad as the admission
of many persons to see the patients at all; for that, although some few were better for the
visits of friends, it was injurious as a general rule to give even friends admittance, and
that it ought to be left discretionary with the physician, when to admit, and whom. Cleanliness,
good fare, a garden, and the suppression of all violence--these have become immutable canons
for the conduct of such institutions, and fortunately demand little more than ordinary good
feeling and intelligence in the superintendent. But we could not fail to observe a sad want
of suitable inducement to occupation, which was apparent throughout this asylum. That not above
one in ten could read, may perhaps be thought a light matter, for few can be the resources
of insanity in books; yet we saw at Genoa a case where it had taken that turn, and as it is
occupation to read, with how much profit it matters not. Not one woman in four, as usually
occurs in insanity, could be induced to dress according to her sex; they figured away in men's
coats and hats! The dining-room was hung with portraits of some merit, by one of the lunatics;
and we noticed that every face, if indeed all are portraits, had some insanity in it. They
have a dance every Sunday evening. What an exhibition it must be!

MISCELLANEA

That the vegetation of Palermo excels that of Naples, partly depends on the superior intelligence
of the agriculturist, and partly upon soil and climate: the fruits here are not only more advanced,
but finer in quality. We left a very meagre dessert of cherries beginning to ripen at Naples;
the very next day, a superabundance of very fine and mature ones were to be had on all the
stalls of Palermo. This must be the result of industry and care in a great measure; for on
leaving that city, after a séjour of three weeks, for Messina, Catania, and Syracuse, although
summer was much further advanced, we relapsed into miserably meagre supplies of what we had
eaten in perfection in the capital; yet Syracuse and Catania are much warmer than Palermo.

The vegetables here are of immense growth. The fennel root (and there is no better test of
your whereabouts in Italy) is nearly twice as large as at Naples, and weighs, accordingly,
nearly double. The cauliflowers are quite colossal; and they have a blue cabbage so big that
your arms will scarcely embrace it. We question, however, whether this hypertrophy of fruit
or vegetables improves their flavour; give us English vegetables--ay, and English fruit. Though
Smyrna's fig is eaten throughout Europe, and Roman brocoli be without a rival; though the cherry
and the Japan medlar flourish only at Palermo, and the cactus of Catania can be eaten nowhere
else; what country town in England is not better off on the whole, if quality alone be considered?
But we have one terrible drawback; for whom are these fruits of the earth produced? Our prices
are enormous, and our supply scanty; could we forget this, and the artichoke, the asparagus,
the peas and beans of London and Paris, are rarely elsewhere so fine. To our palates the gooseberry
and the black currant are a sufficient indemnity to Britain for the grape, merely regarded
as a fruit to eat. Pine-apples, those "illustrious foreigners," are so successfully petted
at home, that they will scarcely condescend now to flourish out of England. Nectarines refuse
to ripen, and apricots to have any taste elsewhere. Our pears and apples are better, and of
more various excellence, than any in the world. And we really prefer our very figs, grown on
a fine prebendal wall in the close of Winchester, or under Pococke's window in a canon's garden
at chilly Oxford. Thus has the kitchen-garden refreshed our patriotism, and made us half ashamed
of our long forgetfulness of home. But there are good things abroad too for poor men; the rich
may live any where. An enormous salad, crisp, cold, white, and of delicious flavour, for a
halfpenny; olive oil, for fourpence a pound, to dress it with; and wine for fourpence a gallon
to make it disagree with you;[15] fuel for almost nothing, and bread for little, are not small
advantages to frugal housekeepers; but, when dispensed by a despotic government, where one
must read those revolting words motu proprio at the head of every edict, let us go back to
our carrots and potatoes, our Peels and our income-tax, our fogs and our frost. The country
mouse came to a right conclusion, and did not like the fragments of the feast with the cat
in the cupboard--

  Give me again my hollow tree,
  My crust of bread, and liberty."

[Footnote 15:

  ----Lactuca innatat acri
  Post vinum stomacho.--HOR.]

Fish, though plentiful and various, is not fine in any part of the Mediterranean; and as to
thunny, one surfeit would put it out of the bill of fare for life. On the whole, though at
Palermo and Naples the pauper starves not in the streets, the gourmand would be sadly at a
loss in his requisition of delicacies and variety. Inferior bread, at a penny a pound, is here
considered palatable by the sprinkling over of the crust with a small rich seed (jugulena)
which has a flavour like the almond; it is also strewn, like our caraway seeds in biscuits,
into the paste, and is largely cultivated for that single use. The capsici, somewhat similar
in flavour to the pea, are detached from the radicles of a plant with a flower strikingly like
the potatoe, and is used for a similar purpose to the jugulena.

This island was the granary of Athens before it nourished Rome; and wheat appears to have been
first raised in Europe on the plains of eastern Sicily. In Cicero's time it returned eightfold;
and to this day one grain yields its eightfold of increase; which, however, is by a small fraction
less than our own, as given by M'Culloch in his "Dictionary of Commerce." We plucked some siligo,
or bearded wheat, near Palermo, the beard of which was eight inches long, the ear contained
sixty grains, eight being also in this instance the average increase; how many grains, then,
must perish in the ground!

In Palermo, English gunpowder is sold by British sailors at the high price of from five to
seven shillings per English pound; the "Polvere nostrale" of the Sicilians only fetches 1s.
8d.; yet such is the superiority of English gunpowder, that every one who has a passion for
popping at sparrows, and other Italian sports, (complimented by the title of La caccia,) prefers
the dear article. When they have killed off all the robins, and there is not a twitter in the
whole country, they go to the river side and shoot gudgeons.

The Palermo donkey is the most obliging animal that ever wore long ears, and will carry you
cheerfully four or five miles an hour without whip or other encouragement. The oxen, no longer
white or cream-coloured, as in Tuscany, were originally importations from Barbary, (to which
country the Sicilians are likewise indebted for the mulberry and silk-worm.) Their colour is
brown. They rival the Umbrian breed in the herculean symmetry of their form, and in the possession
of horns of more than Umbrian dimensions, rising more perpendicularly over the forehead than
in that ancient race. The lizards here are such beautiful creatures, that it is worth while
to bring one away, and, to pervert a quotation, "UNIUS Dominum sese fecisse LACERTAE." Some
are all green, some mottled like a mosaic floor, others green and black on the upper side,
and orange-coloured or red underneath. Of snakes, there is a Coluber niger from four to five
feet in length, with a shining coat, and an eye not pleasant to watch even through glass; yet
the peasants here put them into their Phrygian bonnets, and handle them with as much sang-froid
as one would a walking-stick.

The coarse earthen vessels, pitchers, urns, &c., used by the peasants, are of the most beautiful
shapes, often that of the ancient amphora; and at every cottage door by the road-side you meet
with this vestige of the ancient arts of the country.

The plague which visited Palermo in 1624 swept away 20,000 inhabitants; Messina, in 1743, lost
40,000. The cholera, in 1837, destroyed 69,253 persons. The present population of the whole
island is 1,950,000; the female exceeds the male by about three per cent, which is contrary
to the general rule. It is said that nearly one-half the children received into the foundling
hospital of Palermo die within the first year.

Formerly the barons of Sicily were rich and independent, like our English gentlemen; but they
say that, since 1812, the king's whole pleasure and business, as before our Magna Charta times,
have been to lower their importance. In that year a revolt was the consequence of an income-tax
even of two per cent, for they were yet unbroken to the yoke; but now that he has saddled property
with a deduction, said to be eventually equal to fifteen per cent, if not more; now that he
doubles the impost on the native sulphur, which is therefore checked in its sale; now that
he keeps an army of 80,000 men to play at soldiers with; now that he constitutes himself the
only referee even in questions of commercial expediency, and a fortiori in all other cases,
which he settles arbitrarily, or does not settle at all; now that he sees so little the signs
of the times, that he will not let a professor go to a science-congress at Florence or Bologna
without an express permission, and so ignorant as to have refused that permission for fear
of a political bias; now that he diverts a nation's wealth from works of charity or usefulness,
to keep a set of foreigners in his pay--they no doubt here remember in their prayers, with
becoming gratitude, "the holy alliance," or, as we would call it, the mutual insurance company
of the kings of Europe, of which Castlereagh and Metternich were the honorary secretaries.

In the midst of all the gloomy despotism, beautiful even as imagination can paint it, is Palermo
beautiful! One eminent advantage it possesses over Naples itself--its vicinity presents more
"drives;" and all the drives here might contest the name given to one of them, which is called
"Giro delle Grazie," (the Ring or Mall of the Graces.) It has a Marina of unrivaled beauty,
to which the noblesse and the citizens repair and form a promenade of elegant equipages. A
fine pavement for foot passengers is considerately raised three or four feet above the carriage
road; so that the walking population have nothing to annoy them. The sea is immediately below
both, and you see the little rock-encircled bays animated with groups of those sturdy fishermen
with bare legs; which you admire in Claude and Salvator, throwing before them, with admirable
precision, their épervier net, whose fine wrought meshes sometimes hang, veil-like, between
you and the ruddy sunset, or plashing, as they fall nightly into the smooth sea, contribute
the pleasure of an agreeable sound to the magic of the scenery. Some take the air on donkeys,
which go at a great rate; some are mounted on Spanish mules, all mixed together freely amidst
handsome and numerous equipages; and the whole is backed by a fine row of houses opposite the
sea, built after the fashion of our terraces and crescents at watering-places. And finally,
that blue æquor, as it now deserves to be termed, studded over with thunny boats and coasting
craft with the haze latine sail, that we should be sorry to trust in British hands, is walled
in by cliffs so bold, so rugged, and standing out so beautifully in relief, that for a moment
we cannot choose but envy the citizen of Panormus. But we may not tarry even here; we have
more things to see, and every day is getting hotter than the last.

JOURNEY TO SEGESTE.

Leaving Palermo early, we pass Monreale in our way to the Doric columns of Segeste, and find
ourselves, before the heat of day has reached its greatest intensity, at a considerable elevation
above the plain on which the capital stands, amidst mountains which, except in the difference
of their vegetation, remind us not a little of the configuration of certain wild parts of the
Highlands, where Ben Croachin flings his dark shadow across Loch Awe. Indeed, we were thinking
of this old and favourite fishing haunt with much complacency, when two men suddenly came forth
from behind the bristly aloes and the impenetrable cactus--ill-looking fellows were they; but,
moved by the kindest intentions for our safety, they offer to conduct us through the remainder
of the defile. This service our hired attendant from Palermo declined, and we push on unmolested
to Partenico, our halting-place during the heat of the day. It is a town of some extent, large
enough to afford two fountains of a certain pretension, but execrably dirty within. Twelve
thousand inhabitants has Partenico, and five churches. Out of its five locandas, who shall
declare the worst? Of that in which we had first taken refuge, (as, in a snow-storm on the
Alps, any roof is Paradise,) we were obliged to quit the shelter, and walk at noon, at midsummer,
and in Sicily, a good mile up a main street, which, beginning in habitations of the dimensions
of our almshouses, ends in a few huts intolerably revolting, about which troops of naked children
defy vermin, and encrust themselves in filth. At one door we could not help observing that
worst form of scabies, the gale à grosses bulles; so we had got, it appeared, from Scylla into
Charybdis, and were in the very preserves of Sicilian itch, and we prognosticate it will spread
before the month expires wherever human skin is to be found for its entertainment. Partenico
lies in a scorching plain full of malaria. Having passed the three stifling hours of the day
here, we proceed on our journey to Alcamo, a town of considerable size, which looks remarkably
well from the plain at the distance of four miles--an impression immediately removed on passing
its high rampart gate. Glad to escape the miseries with which it threatens the détenu, we pass
out at the other end, and zigzag down a hill of great beauty, and commanding such views of
sea and land as it would be quite absurd to write about. Already a double row of aloë, planted
at intervals, marks what is to be your course afar off, and is a faithful guide till it lands
you in a Sicilian plain. This is the highest epithet with which any plain can be qualified.
This is indeed the month for Sicily. The goddess of flowers now wears a morning dress of the
newest spring fashion; beautifully made up is that dress, nor has she worn it long enough for
it to be sullied ever so little, or to require the washing of a shower. A delicate pink and
a rich red are the colours which prevail in the tasteful pattern of her voluminous drapery;
and as she advances on you with a light and noiseless step, over a carpet which all the looms
of Paris or of Persia could not imitate, scattering bouquets of colours the most happily contrasted,
and impregnating the air with the most grateful fragrance, we at once acknowledge her beautiful
impersonation in that "monument of Grecian art," the Farnese Flora, of which we have brought
the fresh recollection from the museum of Naples.

The Erba Bianca is a plant like southernwood, presenting a curious hoar-frosted appearance
as its leaves are stirred by the wind. The Rozzolo a vento is an ambitious plant, which grows
beyond its strength, snaps short upon its overburdened stalk, and is borne away by any zephyr,
however light. Large crops of oats are already cut; and oxen of the Barbary breed, brown and
coal-black, are already dragging the simple aboriginal plough over the land. Some of these
fine cattle (to whom we are strangers, as they are to us) stood gazing at us in the plain,
their white horns glancing in the sun; others, recumbent and ruminating, exhibit antlers which,
as we have said before, surpass the Umbrian cattle in their elk-like length and imposing majesty.
Arrived at the bottom of our long hill, we pass a beautiful stream called Fiume freddo, whose
source we track across the plain by banks crowned with Cactus and Tamarisk. Looking back with
regret towards Alcamo, we see trains of mules, which still transact the internal commerce of
the country, with large packsaddles on their backs; and when a halt takes place, these animals
during their drivers' dinner obtain their own ready-found meal, and browse away on three courses
of vegetables and a dessert.

SICILIAN INNS.

"A beautiful place this Segeste must be! One could undergo any thing to see it!" Such would
be the probable exclamation of more than one reader looking over some landscape annual, embellished
with perhaps a view of the celebrated temple and its surrounding scenery; but find yourself
at any of the inexpressibly horrid inns of Alcamo or Calatafrini, (and these are the two principal
stations between Palermo and Segeste--one with its 12,000, the other with its 18,000 inhabitants;)
let us walk you down the main street of either, and if you don't wish yourself at Cheltenham,
or some other unclassical place which never had a Latin name, we are much mistaken! The "Relievo
dei Cavalli" at Alcamo offers no relief for you! The Magpie may prate on her sign-post about
clean beds, for magpies can be made to say any thing; but pray do not construe the "Canova
Divina" Divine Canova! He never executed any thing for the Red Lion of Calatafrini, whose "Canova"
is a low wine-shop, full of wrangling Sicilian boors. Or will you place yourself under the
Eagle's wing, seduced by its nuovi mobili e buon servizio? Oh, we obtest those broken window-panes
whether it be not cruel to expose new furniture to such perils! For us we put up at the "Temple
of Segeste," attracted rather by its name than by any promise or decoy it offers. Crabbe has
given to the inns at Aldborough each its character: here all are equal in immundicity, and
all equally without provisions. Some yellow beans lie soaking to soften them. There is salt-cod
from the north, moist and putrid. There is no milk; eggs are few. The ham at the Pizzicarolo's
is always bad, and the garlicked sausage repulsive. Nothing is painted or white-washed, let
alone dusted, swept, or scoured. The walls have the appearance of having been pawed over by
new relays of dirty fingers daily for ten years. This is a very peculiar appearance at many
nasty places out of Sicily, and we really do not know its pathology. You tread loathingly an
indescribable earthen floor, and your eye, on entering the apartment, is arrested by a nameless
production of the fictile art, certainly not of Etruscan form, which is invariably placed on
the bolster of the truck-bed destined presently for your devoted head. Oh! to do justice to
a Sicilian locanda is plainly out of question, and the rest of our task may as well be sung
as said, verse and prose being alike incapable of the hopeless reality:--

    "Lodged for the night, O Muse! begin
  To sing the true Sicilian inn,
  Where the sad choice of six foul cells
  The least exacting traveller quells
  (Though crawling things, not yet in sight,
  Are waiting for the shadowy night,
  To issue forth when all is quiet,
  And on your feverish pulses riot;)
  Where one wood shutter scrapes the ground,
  By crusts, stale-bones, and garbage bound;
  Where unmolested spiders toil
  Behind the mirror's mildew'd foil;
  Where the cheap crucifix of lead
  Hangs o'er the iron tressel'd bed;
  Where the huge bolt will scarcely keep
  Its promise to confiding sleep,
  Till you have forced it to its goal
  In the bored brick-work's crumbling hole;
  Where, in loose flakes, the white-wash peeling
  From the bare joints of rotten ceiling,
  Give token sure of vermin's bower,
  And swarms of bugs that bide their hour!
  Though bands of fierce musquittos boom
  Their threatening bugles round the room,
  To bed! Ere wingless creatures crawl
  Across your path from yonder wall,
  And slipper'd feet unheeding tread
  We know not what! To bed! to bed!
  What can those horrid sounds portend?
  Some waylaid traveller near his end,
  From ghastly gash in mortal strife,
  Or blow of bandit's blood-stained knife?
  No! no! They're bawling to the Virgin,
  Like victim under hands of surgeon!
  From lamp-lit daub, proceeds the cry
  Of that unearthly litany!
  And now a train of mules goes by!

    "One wretch comes whooping up the street
  For whooping's sake! And now they beat
  Drum after drum for market mass,
  Each day's transactions on the place!
  All things that go, or stay, or come,
  They herald forth by tuck of drum.
  Day dawns! a tinkling tuneless bell,
  Whate'er it be, has news to tell.
  Then twenty more begin to strike
  In noisy discord, all alike;--
  Convents and churches, chapels, shrines,
  In quick succession break the lines.
  Till every gong in town, at last
  Its tongue hath loos'd, and sleep is past.
  So much for nights! New days begin,
  Which land you in another Inn.
  O! he that means to see Girgenti
  Or Syracuse!--needs patience plenty!"

Crossing a rustic bridge, we pass through a garden (for it is no less, though man has had no
spade in it) of pinks, marigolds, cyclamens, and heart's-ease, &c. &c.; the moist meadow land
below is a perfect jungle of lofty grasses, all fragrant and in flower, gemmed with the unevaporated
morning dew, and colonized with the Aphides, Alticæ, and swarms of the most beautiful butterflies
clinging to their stalks. Gramina læta after Virgil's own heart, were these. Their elegance
and unusual variety were sufficient to throw a botanist into a perfect HAY fever, and our own
first paroxysm only went off, when, after an hour's hard collecting, we came to a place which
demanded another sort of enthusiasm; for THERE stood without a veil the Temple of Segeste,
with one or two glimpses of which we had been already astonished at a distance, in all its
Dorian majesty! This almost unmutilated and glorious memorial of past ages here reigns alone--the
only building far or near visible in the whole horizon; and what a position has its architect
secured! In the midst of hills on a bit of table-land, apparently made such by smoothing down
the summit of one of them, with a greensward in front, and set off behind by a mountain background,
stands this eternal monument of the noblest of arts amidst the finest dispositions of nature.
There is another antiquity of the place also to be visited at Segeste--its theatre; but we
are too immediately below it to know any thing about it at present, and must leave it in a
parenthesis. To our left, at the distance of eight miles, this hill country of harmonious and
graceful undulation ends in beetling cliffs, beneath which the sea, now full in view, lies
sparkling in the morning sunshine. We shall never, never forget the impressions made upon us
on first getting sight of Segeste! Pæstum we had seen, and thought that it exhausted all that
was possible to a temple, or the site of a temple. Awe-stricken had we surveyed those monuments
of "immemorial antiquity" in that baleful region of wild-eyed buffaloes and birds of prey--temples
to death in the midst of his undisputed domains! We had fully adopted Forsyth's sentiment,
and held Pæstum to be probably the most impressive monument on earth; but here at Segeste a
nature less austere, and more RIANTE in its wildness, lent a quite different charm to a scene
which could scarcely be represented by art, and for which a reader could certainly not be prepared
by description. We gave an antiquarian's devoutest worship to this venerable survivor of 2000
years, and of many empires--we felt the vast masses of its time-tried Doric, and even the wild
flowers within its precincts, its pink valerians; its erba di vento, its scented wallflower.
The whole scene kept our admiration long tasked, but untired. A smart shower compelled us to
seek shelter under the shoulder of one of the grey entablatures: it soon passed away, leaving
us a legacy of the richest fragrance, while a number of wild birds of the hawk kind, called
"chaoli" from their shrill note, issued from their hiding-places, and gave us wild music as
they scudded by!

A few bits of wall scattered over the corn-fields are all that now remains of the dwellings
of the men who built this temple for their city, and who, by its splendour, deluded the Athenians
into a belief of greater wealth than they possessed.

Our ascent to the theatre, the day after, proved to be a very steep one, of half an hour on
mule-back; in making which, we scared two of those prodigious birds, the ospreys, who, having
reconnoitred us, forthwith began to wheel in larger and larger sweeps, and at last made off
for the sea. We found the interior of the theatre occupied by an audience ready for our arrival;
it consisted of innummerable hawks, the chaoli just mentioned, which began to scream at our
intrusion. The ospreys soon returned, and were plainly only waiting our departure to subside
upon their solitary domain. We would not be a soft-billed bird for something in this neighbourhood;
no song would save them from the hawks' supper. Having luxuriated on the 24th of May for full
four hours in this enchanting neighbourhood, we were sorry to return to our inn--and such an
inn! We departed abruptly, and probably never to return; but we shall think of Segeste in Hyde
Park, or as we pass the candlestick Corinthians of Whitehall. Thucydides[16] relates that a
prevailing notion in his time was, that the Trojans after losing Troy went first to Sicily,
and founded there Egesta and Eryx. Now, as on the same authority the first Greek colony was
Naxos, also in Sicily, Greeks and Trojans (strange coincidence!) must have met again on new
ground after the Iliad was all acted and done with, like a tale that is told.

[Footnote 16: Vide THUCYDIDES, Book iv. chap. 15.]

On our return towards Palermo, one of our party having a touch of ague, we crossed the street
to the apothecary, (at Calatafrini, our night's halt,) and smelling about his musty galenicals,
amidst a large supply of malvas which were drying on his counter, the only wholesome-looking
thing amidst his stores, we asked if he had any quinine. "Sicuro!" and he presented us with
a white powder having a slightly bitter taste, which, together with an ounce of green tea,
to be dispensed in pinches of five grains on extraordinary occasions, comes, he says, from
the East. On our observing that the quinine, if such at all, was adulterated, and that this
was too bad in a country of malaria, where it was the poor man's only protection, he looked
angry; but we rose in the esteem of peasants in the shop, who said to each other--"Ed ha ragione
il Signor." Wanting a little soda, we were presented with sub-carbonate of potash as the nearest
approach to it--a substitution which suggested to us a classical recollection from Theocritus;
namely, that in this same Sicily, 2000 years ago, a Syracusan husband is rated by his dame
for sending her soda for her washing in place of potash, the very converse of what our old
drug-vender intended to have washed our inside withal.

The Roman Catholic religion patronises painting oddly here; not a cart but is adorned with
some sacred subject. Every wretched vehicle that totters under an unmerciful load, with one
poor donkey to draw six men, has its picture of Souls in Purgatory, who seem putting their
hands and heads out of the flames, and vainly calling on the ruffians inside to stop. We read
Viva la Divina Providenza, in flaming characters on the front board of a carriole, while the
whip is goading the poor starved brute who drags it; for these barbarians in the rear of European
civilization, plainly are of opinion that a cart with a sacred device shall not break down,
though its owner commit every species of cruelty.

The next day found us again installed at our old quarters in Palermo, where, during our brief
remaining stay, we visit a conchologist, before which event we had no notion that Sicily was
so rich in shells. Two sides of a moderately large room are entirely devoted to his collection.
Here we saw a piece of wood nearly destroyed by the Teredo navalis, or sailor's bore, who seems
more active and industrious here than elsewhere, and seldom allows himself to be taken whole.
Out of hundreds of specimens, three or four perfect ones were all that this collector could
ever manage to extract, the molluscous wood-destroyer being very soft and fragile. His length
is about three inches, his thickness that of a small quill; he lodges in a shell of extreme
tenuity, and the secretion which he ejects is, it seems, the agent which destroys the wood,
and pushes on bit by bit the winding tunnel. But his doings are nothing to the working of another
wafer-shelled bivalve, whose tiny habitations are so thickly imbedded in the body of a nodule
of flint as to render its exterior like a sieve, diducit scopulos aceto. What solvent can the
chemist prepare in his laboratory comparable to one which, while it dissolves silex, neither
harms the insect nor injures its shell. Amongst the fossils we notice cockles as big as ostrich
eggs, clam-shells twice the size of the largest of our Sussex coast, and those of oysters which
rival soup-plates. We had indeed once before met with them of equal size in the lime-beds at
Corneto. Judging by the oysters, there must indeed have been giants in those days. But this
collection was chiefly remarkable for its curious fossil remains of animals from Monte Grifone.
In this same Monte Grifone, which we went to visit, is one of the largest of the caves of bones
of which so many have been discovered--bones of various kinds, some of small, some of very
large animals, mixed together pell-mell, and constituting a fossil paste of scarcely any thing
besides. None of the geologists, in attempting to explain these deposits, sufficiently enter
into the question of the origin of the enormous quantity, and close juxtaposition, of such
heterogeneous specimens.

By eight o'clock we are on board the Palermo steamer, which is to convey us hence to Messina.
The baked deck, which has been saturated with the sun's heat all day, is now cooling to a more
moderate warmth, and soothing would be the scene but for the noise of women and children. Large
liquid stars twinkle here and there, like so many moons on a reduced scale, over the sea, and
the night is wholly delightful! A bell rings, which diminishes our numbers, and somewhat clears
our deck. The boats which carry off the last loiterers are gone, shaking phosphorus from their
gills, and leaving a train of it in their tails; and the many-windowed Pharos of the harbour
has all its panes lit up, and twinkles after its own fashion. Round the bay an interrupted
crescent of flickering light is reflected in the water, strongest in the middle, where the
town is thickest, and runs back; and far behind all lights comes the clear outline of the darkly
defined mountain rising over the city. Our own lantern also is up, the authorities have disappeared,
Monte Pelegrino begins to change its position, we are in motion, and a mighty light we are
making under us, as our leviathan, turning round her head and snuffing the sea, begins to wind
out of the harbour. A few minutes more, and the luminous tracery of the receding town becomes
more and more indistinct; but the sky is all stars, and the water, save where we break its
smoothness, a perfect mirror. Wherever the paddles play, there the sea foams up into yellow
light and gerbes of amber-coloured fireballs, caught up by the wheels, and flung off in our
track, to float past with incredible rapidity. Men are talking the language of Babel in the
cabin; there is amateur singing and a guitar on deck--Orion is on his dolphin--adieu, Palermo!

APPROACH TO MESSINA.

The Italian morning presents a beautiful sight on deck to eyes weary and sore with night, as
night passes on board steamers. We pass along a coast obviously of singular conformation, and
to a geologist, we suppose, full of interest. We encounter a herd of classical dolphins out
a-pleasuring. We ask about a pretty little town perched just above the sea, and called Giocosa.
By its side lies Tyndaris--classical enough if we spell it right. The snow on Etna is as good
as an inscription, and to be read at any distance; but what a deception! they tell us it is
thirty miles off, and it seems to rise immediately from behind a ridge of hills close to the
shore. The snow cone rises in the midst of other cones, which would appear equally high but
for the difference of colour. Patti is a picturesque little borgo, on the hillside, celebrated
in Sicily for its manufacture of hardware. In the bay of Melazzo are taken by far the largest
supplies of thunny in the whole Mediterranean. From the embayed town so named you have the
choice of a cross-road to Messina, (twenty-four miles;) but who would abridge distance and
miss the celebrated straits towards which we are rapidly approaching, or lose one hour on land
and miss the novelties of volcanic islands, and the first view of Scylla and Charybdis? It
is but eight o'clock, but the awning has been stretched over our heads an hour ago. As to breakfast--the
meal which is associated with that particular hour of the four-and-twenty to all well regulated
minds and stomachs--it consists here of thin veneers of old mahogany-coloured thunny, varnished
with oil, and relieved by an incongruous abomination of capers and olives. The cold fowls are
infamous. The wine were a disgrace to the sorriest tapster between this and the Alps, and also
fiery, like every thing else in this district. Drink it, and doubt not the old result--de conviva
Corybanta videbis. (Oh, for muffins and dry toast!) Never mind, we shall soon be at Messina.
And now we approach a point from which the lofty Calabrian coast opposite, and the flinty wall
of the formidable Scylla, first present themselves, but still as distant objects. In another
half hour we are just opposite the redoubtable rock; and here we turn abruptly at right angles
to our hitherto course, and find ourselves within the straits, from either side of which the
English and the French so often tried the effect of cannon upon each other. It is now what
it used to be--fishing ground. The Romans got their finest muræna from the whirlpools of Charybdis.[17]
The shark (cane di mare) abounding here, would make bathing dangerous were the water smooth;
but the rapid whirlpools through which our steam-boat dashes on disdainfully, would, at the
same time, make it impossible to any thing but a fish. A passenger assured us he had once seen
a man lost in the Vistula, who, from being a great swimmer, trusted imprudently to his strength,
and was sucked down by a vortex of far less impetuosity, he thought, than this through which
we were moving. From this point till we arrived at Messina, as every body was ripe for bathing,
the whole conversation turned naturally on the Messina shark, and his trick of snapping at
people's legs carelessly left by the owners dangling over the boat's side. We steam up the
straits to our anchorage in about three-fourths of an hour. The approach is fine, very fine.
A certain Greek, (count, he called himself,) a great traveller, and we afterwards found not
a small adventurer, increases the interest of the approach, by telling us that the hills before
us, bubbling up like blisters on chalcedony, have a considerable resemblance, though inferior
in character, to those which embellish the Bosphorus and the first view of Constantinople.
Inferior, no doubt, in the imposing accessories of mosque and minaret, and of cypresses as
big as obelisks, which, rising thickly on the heights, give to the city of Constantinople an
altogether peculiar and inimitable charm. Messina is beautifully land-locked. The only possible
winds that can affect its port are the north-west and south-east. In summer it is said to enjoy
more sea breeze than any other place on the Mediterranean. Our Greek friend, however, says
that Constantinople is in this respect not only superior to Messina, but to any other place
in the seas of Europe. Pity that the fellows are Turks! We did not find much to interest us
within the walls of Messina. There was, to be sure, a fine collection of Sicilian birds, amongst
which we were surprised to see several of very exotic shape and plumage. One long-legged fellow,
dressed in a dirty white Austrian uniform, with large web-feet, on which he seemed to rest
with great complacency, particularly arrested our attention. He stood as high as the Venus
di Medici, but by no means so gracefully, and thrust his thick carved beak unceremoniously
in your face. His card of address was Phoenicopterus antiquorum. The ancients ate him, and
he looked as if he would break your nose if you disputed with him. A very large finch, which
we have seen for sale about the streets here and elsewhere in Sicily, rejoices in the imposing
name of Fringilla cocco thraustis. He wears his black cravat like a bird of pretension, as
he evidently is. The puffin (Puffinus Anglorum) also frequents these rocks, though a very long
way from the Isle of Wight. No! Messina, though very fine, is not equal to Palermo, with its
unrivaled Marina, compared to which Messina is poorly off indeed, in her straggling dirty commerce-doing
quay. We went out to see a little garden, which contains half a dozen zare-trees and as many
beautiful birds in cages. We are disappointed at the poverty of our dessert in this region
of fruitfulness--a few bad oranges, some miserable cherries, and that abomination the green
almond. We observe, for the first time, to-day folks eating in the streets the crude contents
of a little oval pod, which contains one or two very large peas, twice the size of any others.
These are the true cicer, the proper Italian pea. Little bundles of them are tied up for sale
at all the fruit stalls, and men are seen all the day long eating these raw peas, and offering
them to each other as sugar-plums.

[Footnote 17: "Virroni muræna datur, quo maxima venit Gurgite de Siculo: nam dum se continet
Auster, Contemnunt mediam tem eraria lina Charybdim." JUVENAL, Sat. v. 99.]

In the Corso we see a kind of temporary theatre, the deal sides of which are gaudily lined
with Catania silk, and on its stage a whole dramatis personæ of sacred puppets. It is lighted
by tapers of very taper dimensions, and its stalle are to be let for a humble consideration
to the faithful or the curious. It turns out to be a religious spectacle, supported on the
voluntary system--but there is something for your money. A vast quantity of light framework,
to which fireworks, chiefly of the detonating kind, are attached, are already going off, and
folk are watching till it be completed. Then the evening's entertainment will begin, and a
miser indeed must he be, or beyond measure resourceless, who refuses halfpence for such choice
festivities. Desirous to make out the particular representation, we get over the fence in order
to examine the figures of the drama on a nearer view. A smartly dressed saint in a court suit,
but whom mitre and crosier determine to be a bishop, kneels to a figure in spangles, a virgin
as fond of fine clothes as the Greek Panageia; while on the other side, with one or two priests
in his train, is seen a crowd in civil costume. A paper cloud above, surrounded by glories
of glass and tinsel, is supported by two solid cherubs equal to the occasion, and presents
to the intelligent a representation of--we know not what! Fire-works here divide the public
with the drum--to one or other all advertisement in Sicily is committed. A sale of fish and
flesh, theatric entertainments, processions, and church invitations, are all by tuck of drum,
or by squib and cracker. How did they get on before the invention of gunpowder? If a new coffeehouse
is established, a couple of drums start it advantageously, and beat like a recruiting party
up and down the street, to the dismay of all Forestieri. The drum tells you when the thunny
is at a discount, and fire-works are let off at fish stalls when customers are slack.

An old tower, five miles off, is called the telegraph. People go there for the panorama at
the expense of three horses and two hours; but you are repaid by two sea views, either of which
had been sufficient. Messina, its harbour, the straits, the opposite coast of Calabria, Scylla,
and Rhegium, (famed for its bergamot,) are on the immediate shore, and a most striking chain
of hills for the background, which, at a greater distance, have for their background the imposing
range of the Abruzzi. The Æolian islands rise out of the sea in the happiest positions for
effect. Stromboli on the extreme right detaches his grey wreath of smoke, which seems as if
it proceeded out of the water, (for Stromboli is very low,) staining for a moment the clear
firmament, which rivals it in depth of colour. Some of the volcanic group are so nearly on
a level with the water, that they look like the backs of so many leviathans at a halt. The
sea itself lies, a waveless mirror, smooth, shining, slippery, and treacherous as a serpent's
back--"miseri quibus intentata nites," say we.

JOURNEY TO TAORMINA.

We left Messina under a sky which no painter would or could attempt; indeed, it would not have
looked well on paper, or out of reality. There are certain unusual, yet magnificent appearances
in nature, from which the artist conventionally abstains, not so much from the impotence of
art, as that the nearer his approach to success the worse the picture. At one time the colours
were like shot or clouded silk, or the beautiful uncertainty of the Palamida of these shores,
or the matrix of opal; at another, the Pacific Ocean above, of which the continuity is often
for whole months entire, was broken into gigantic continents and a Polynesia of rose-coloured
islands that no ships might approach; while in this nether world the middle of the Calabro-Sicilian
strait was occupied by a condensation of vapour, (one could never profane them by the term
of sea-mist or fog,) the most subtile and attenuated which ever came from the realms of cloud-compelling
Jove. This fleecy tissue pursued its deliberate progress from coast to coast, like a cortege
of cobwebs carrying a deputation from the power-looms of Arachne in Italy to the rival silk-looms
at Catania. We pass the dry beds of mountain torrents at every half mile, ugly gashes on a
smooth road; and requiring too much caution to leave one's attention to be engaged by many
objects altogether new and beautiful. The rich yellow of the Cactus, and the red of the Pomegranate,
and the most tender of all vegetable greens, that of the young mulberry, together with a sweet
wilderness of unfamiliar plants, are not to be perfectly enjoyed on a fourfooted animal that
stumbles, or on a road full of pitfalls. We shall only say that the Cynara cardunculus, (a
singularly fine thistle or wild artichoke;) the prickly uncultivated love-apple, (a beautiful
variety of the Solanum,) of which the decoction is not infrequently employed in nephritic complaints;
the Ferula, sighing for occupation all along the sea-shore, and shaking its scourge as the
wind blows; the Rhododendron, in full blossom, planted amongst the shingles; the Thapsia gargarica,
with its silver umbel, looking at a short distance like mica, (an appearance caused by the
shining white fringe of the capsule encasing its seed,) and many other strange and beautiful
things, were the constant attendants of our march. We counted six or seven varieties of the
spurge, (Euphorbium,) each on its milky stem, and in passing through the villages had Carnations
as large as Dahlias flung at us by sunburnt urchins posted at their several doors. The sandy
shore for many miles is beautifully notched in upon by tiny bays like basins, on which boats
lie motionless and baking in the sun, or oscillate under a picturesque rock, immersed up to
its shoulders in a green hyaloid, which reflects their forms from a depth of many fathoms.
On more open stretches of the shore, long-drawn ripples of waves of tiny dimension are overrunning
and treading on one another's heels for miles a-head, and tapping the anchored boat "with gentle
blow." The long-horned oxen already spoken of, toil along the seaside road like the horses
on our canal banks, and tug the heavy felucca towards Messina--a service, however, sometimes
executed by men harnessed to the towing-cord, who, as they go, offend the Sicilian muses by
sounds and by words that have little indeed of the [Greek: Dôriz aoida]. The gable ends of
cottages often exhibit a very primitive windmill for sawing wood within doors. It is a large
wheel, to the spokes of which flappers are adjusted, made of coarse matting, and so placed
as to profit by the ordinary sea breeze; and, while the wind is thus sawing his planks for
him, the carpenter, at his door, carries on his craft. We pass below not a few fortresses abutting
over the sea, or perched on the mountain tops. Many of these are of English construction, and
date from the occupation of the island during the French war: in a word, the whole of this
Sicilian road is so variously lovely, that if we did not know the cornice between Nice and
Genoa, we should say it was quite unrivaled, being at once in lavish possession of all the
grand, and most of the milder elements of landscape composition. It is long since it became
no wonder to us that the greatest and in fact the only, real pastoral poet should have been
a Sicilian; but it is a marvel indeed, that, having forgotten to bring his Eclogues with us,
we cannot, through the whole of Sicily, find a copy of Theocitus for sale, though there is
a Sicilian translation of him to be had at Palermo. As he progresses thus delightfully, a long-wished
for moment awaits the traveller approaching towards Giardini--turning round a far projecting
neck of land, Etna is at last before him! A disappointment, however, on the whole is Etna himself,
thus introduced. He looks far below his stature, and seems so near, that we would have wagered
to get upon his shoulders and pull his ears, and return to the little town to dine; the ascent
also, to the eye, seems any thing but steep; nor can you easily be brought to believe that
such an expedition is from Giardini a three days' affair, except, indeed, that yonder belt
of snow in the midst of this roasting sunshine, has its own interpretation, and cannot be mistaken.
Alas! In the midst of all our flowers there was, as there always is, the amari aliquid--it
was occasioned here by the flies. They had tasked our improved capacity for bearing annoyances
ever since we first set foot in Sicily; but here they are perfectly incontrollable, stinging
and buzzing at us without mercy or truce, not to be driven off for a second, nor persuaded
to drown themselves on any consideration. Verily, the honey-pots of Hybla itself seem to please
these troublesome insects less than the flesh-pots of Egypt.

The next day begins inauspiciously for our ascent to Taormina; but the attendants of the excursion
are already making a great noise, without which nothing can be done in either of the two Sicilies.
A supply of shabby donkeys are brought and mounted, and, once astride, we begin to ascend,
the poor beasts tottering under our weight, and by their constant stumbling affording us little
inclination to look about. It takes about three-fourths of an hour of this donkey-riding to
reach the old notched wall of the town. Two Taorminian citizens at this moment issue from under
its arch, in their way down, and guessing what we are, offer some indifferent coins which do
not suit us, but enable us to enter into conversation. We demand and obtain a cicerone, of
whom we are glad to get rid after three hours' infliction of his stupidity and endurance of
his ignorance, without acquiring one idea, Greek, Roman, Norman, or Saracen, out of all his
erudition. After going through the whole tour with such a fellow for a Hermes, we come at last
upon the far-famed theatre, where we did not want him. Here, however, a very intelligent attendant,
supported by the king of Naples on a suitable pension of five baiocchi a-day, takes us out
of the hands of the Philistine, and with a plan of the ground to aid us, proceeds to give an
intelligible, and, as appears to us, a true explanation of the different parts of the huge
construction, in the area of which we stand delighted. He directed our attention to a large
arched tunnel, under and at right angles to the pulpita, and we did not want direction to the
thirty-six niches placed at equal distances all round the ellipse, and just over the lowest
range of the CUNEI. All niches were, no doubt, for statues; but these might also have been,
it pleases some to suppose, for the reverberation of applause; and they quote something about
"Resonantia Vasa" from Macrobius, adding, that such niches were once probably lined with brass.
Of bolder speculatists, some believe the kennel to have been made with a similar intention.
Others hold that it may have been a concealed way for introducing lions and tigers to the arena!
Now, what if it were a drain for the waters, which, in bad weather, soon collect to a formidable
height in such a situation? Whether for voice, or wild beasts, or drainage, or none of these
objects, there it is. As to the first, we cannot help being sceptical. Did it ever occur to
an audience to wish the noise they make greater, and contrive expedients for making it so?

We are here high up amidst the mountains, where, we are to remember, as the ancients came not
to spend, like ourselves, an idle hour, but to consume most of the day, shelter would be wanted.
Two large lateral spaces, or as it were, side chambers, have received this destination at the
hands of the antiquary, and have been supposed lobbies for foul weather or for shade at noon.
We were made to notice by our guide, what we should else have overlooked, how the main passage
described above communicates with several smaller ones in its progress, and that a small stair
was a subsequent contrivance or afterthought meant to relieve, on emergency, the overcharged
large one; its workmanship and style showed it plainly to have been added when the edifice
had already become an antiquity. This altogether peculiar and most interesting building has
also suffered still later interpolations: a Saracenic frieze runs round the wall; so that the
hands of three widely different nations have been busy on the mountain theatre, which received
its first audience twenty-five centuries ago! The view obtained from this spot has often been
celebrated, and deserves to be. Such mountains we had often seen before; such a sky is the
usual privilege of Sicily; these indented bays, which break so beautifully the line of the
coast, had been an object of our daily admiration; the hoary side of the majestic Etna, and
Naxos with its castellated isthmus, might be seen from other elevated situations; and the acuminated
tops of Mola, with its Saracenic tower, were commanded by neighbouring sites--Taormina alone,
and for its own sake, was the great and paramount object in our eyes, and possessed us wholly!
We had been following Lyell half the day in antediluvian remains; but what are the bones of
Ichthyosauri or Megalotheria to this gigantic skeleton of Doric antiquity, round which lie
scattered the sepulchres of its ancient audiences, Greek, Roman, and Oriental--tombs which
had become already an object of speculation, and been rifled for arms, vases, or gold rings,
before Great Britain had made the first steps beyond painted barbarism!

The eruptions of Etna have all been recorded. Thucydides mentions one of them episodically
in the Peloponesian war. From the cooled caldron that simmers under all that snow, has proceeded
all the lava that the ancients worked into these their city walls. The houses of Taurominium
were built of and upon lava, which it requires a thousand years to disintegrate. After dinner
we walk to Naxos, saluting the statue of the patron of a London parish, St Pancras, on our
way. He stands on the beach here, and claims, by inscription on his pedestal, to have belonged
to the apostolic times, St Peter himself having, he says, appointed him to his bishopric. He
is patron of Taormina, where he has possessed himself of a Greek temple; and he also protects
the faithful of Giardini. Lucky in his architects has been St Pancras; for many of our readers
are familiar with his very elegant modern church in the New Road, modelled, if we have not
forgotten, on the Erechtheum, with its Pandrosean Vestries, its upright tiles, and all the
subordinate details of Athenian architecture. We met here the subject of many an ancient bas
relief done into flesh and blood--a dozen men and boys tripping along the road to the music
of a bagpipe, one old Silenus leading the jocund throng, and the whole of them, as the music,
such as it was, inspired, leaping about and gesticulating with incredible activity. It was
a bacchanalian subject, which we had seen on many a sarcophagus, only that the fellows here
were not quite naked, and that we looked in vain for those nascent horns and tails by which
the children of Pan and Faunus ought to be identified. We always look out for natural history.
Walking in a narrow street, we saw a tortoise, awake for the season, come crawling out to peep
at the poultry; his hybernation being over, he wants to be social, and the hens in astonishment
chuckle round him, and his tortoiseshell highness seems pleased at their kind enquiries, and
keeps bobbing his head in and out of his testudo in a very sentimental manner. Women who want
his shell for combs do not frequent these parts, and so, unless a cart pass over him as he
returns home, he is in clover.

A bird frequents these parts with a blue chest, called Passer solitarius; he abounds in the
rocky crevices. The notes of one, which was shown to us in a cage, sounded sweetly; but, as
he was carnivorous, the weather was too hot for us to think of taking him away. We saw two
snakes put into the same box: the one, a viper, presently killed the other, and much the larger
of the two. Serpents, then, like men, do not, as the Satirist asserts, spare their kind. We
are disappointed at not finding any coins, nor any other good souvenirs, to bring away with
us. The height of Taormina is sufficient to keep it from fever, which is very prevalent at
Giardini below. Its bay was once a great place for catching mullet for the Roman market. It
seems to have been the Torbay of Sicily. Some fish love their ease, and rejoice not in turbulent
waters. The muræna, or lamprey, on the contrary, was sought in the very whirlpools of Charybdis.
The modern Roman, on his own side of Italy, has few turbot, but very good ones are still taken
off Ancona, in the Adriatic, where the spatium admirabile Rhombi, as the reader will, or ought
to recollect, was taken and sent to Domitian at Albano by Procaccio or Estafetta. Juvenal complains
that the Tyrrhene sea was exhausted by the demand for fish, though there was no Lent in those
times. If the Catholic clergy insist that there was, we beg to object, that the keepers thereof
were probably not in a condition to compete with the Apiciuses of the day, who bought fish
for their bodies', and not for their SOULS' SAKE.

CATANIA.

Tum Catane nimium ardenti vicina Typhæo.

After a pleasant drive of twenty miles, we find ourselves at Aci-Reale, where a street, called
"Galatea," reminds us unexpectedly of a very classical place called Dean's Yard, where we once
had doings with Acis, as he figures in Ovid's Metamorphoses. We were here in luck, and, having
purchased some fine coins of several of the tyrants of Sicily from the apothecary, proceeded
on our way to Catania. In half an hour we reach the basaltic Isles of the Cyclops, and the
Castle of Acis, whom the peasants hereabouts tell you was their king, when Sicily was under
the Saracenic yoke. The river Lecatia, now lost, is supposed formerly to have issued hereabouts,
in the port of Ulysses. Our next move placed us amidst the silk-slops of Catania. We have hardly
been five minutes in the town, when offers abound to conduct us up Ætna, in whom, as so much
national wealth, the inhabitants seem to take as much interest as in her useful and productive
silk-looms. Standing fearless on the pavement of lava that buried their ancient city, they
point up with complacency to its fountains above. The mischievous exploits of Ætna, in past
times, are in every mouth, and children learn their Ætnean catechism as soon as they are breeched.
Ætna here is all in all. Churches are constructed out of his quarried viscera--great men lie
in tombs, of which the stones once ran liquid down his flames--snuff is taken out of lava boxes--and
devotion carves the crucifix on lava, and numbers its beads on a lava rosary--nay, the apothecary's
mortar was sent him down from the great mortar-battery above, and the village belle wears fire-proof
bracelets that were once too hot to be meddled with. Go to the museum, and you will call it
a museum of Ætnean products. Nodulated, porous, condensed, streaked, spotted, clouded, granulated
lava, here assumes the colour, rivals the compactness, sustains the polish, of jasper, of agate,
and of marble; indeed it sometimes surpasses, in beautiful veinage, the finest and rarest Marmorean
specimens. You would hardly distinguish some of it, worked into jazza or vase, from rosso antico
itself. A very old and rusty armoury may, as here, be seen any where; but a row of formidable
shark skulls, taken along the coast, and some in the very port of Catania, are rarities on
which the ciceroni like to prelect, being furnished with many a story of bathers curtailed
by them, and secure a large portion of attention, especially if you were just thinking of a
dip. A rather fine collection of bronzes has been made from excavations in the neighbourhood,
which, indeed, must always promise to reward research. A figure of Mercury, two and a half
feet high, and so exactly similar to that of John of Bologna, that his one seemed an absolute
plagiarism, particularly attracted our attention on that account. The great Italian artist,
however, had been dead one hundred and fifty years before this bronze was dug up. Next in importance
to the bronzes, we esteem the collection of Sicilian, or Græco-Sicilian vases, though inferior
in number and selectness to those of the Vatican, or Museo-Borbonico. There is also some ancient
sculpture, and some pretty mosaic. Of this composition is a bathfloor, where a family of Cupids,
in the centre of the pavement, welcome you with a utere feliciter, (may it do you good.) Round
the border, a circle of the personified "months" is artistically chained together, each bearing
his Greek name, for fear of a mistake--names not half so good as Sheridan's translation of
the Revolutionary calendar--snowy, flowy, blowy--showery, flowery, bowery--moppy, croppy, poppy--breezy,
sneezy, freezy. In Catania, we find no lack of coins, nor of sharp-eyed dealers, who know pretty
generally their value throughout Europe; but, in order to be quite sure of the price current,
ask double what they take from one another, and judge, by your abatement of it, of the state
of the market elsewhere. Now mind, sir, when they present you the most impudent forgeries,
you are not to get into a passion; but, glancing from the object to the vender, quietly insinuate
your want of absolute conviction in a "che vi pare di questa moneta." He now looks at it again,
and takes a squint at you; and supposing you smell a rat, probably replies that certainly he
bought it for genuine; but you have suggested a doubt, and the piece really begins, even to
him, to look suspicious, "anzi à me." You reply coolly, and put it down--"That was just what
I was thinking;" and so the affair passes quietly off. And now you may, if you happen to be
tender-hearted, say something compassionate to the poor innocent who has been taken in, and
proceed to ask him about another; and when you see any thing you long to pocket, enquire what
can he afford to let a brother collector (give him a step in rank) have it for; and so go on
feeling your way, and never "putting your arm so far out that you cannot comfortably draw it
back again." He will probably ask you if you know Mr B---- or C----, (English collectors,)
with whom he has had dealings, calling them "stimabili signori;" and, of course, you have no
doubt of it, though you never heard of them before. It is also always conciliative to congratulate
him on the possession of such and such rare and "belle cose;" and if you thus contrive to get
into his good graces, he will deal with you at fair prices, and perhaps amuse you with an account
of such tricks as he is not ashamed to have practised on blockheads, who will buy at any cost
if the die is fine. Indeed, it has passed into an aphorism among these mezzo-galantuomini,
as their countrymen call them, that a fine coin is always worth what you can get for it.

We heard the celebrated organ of St Benedict, which has been praising God in tremendous hallelujahs
ever since it was put up, and a hundred years have only matured the richness of its tones.
Its voice was gushing out as we entered the church, and filling nave and aisle with a diapason
of all that was soft and soothing, as if a choir of Guido's angels had broke out in harmony.

A stream of fresh water issues under the old town-wall, and an immense mass of incumbent lava,
of at least ninety feet high, impends just above its source, the water struggling through a
mass of rock once liquefied by fire, in as limpid a rill as if it came from limestone, and
so excellent in quality that no other is used in Catania. Women with buckets were ascending
and descending to fetch supplies out of the lava of the dead city below, for the use of the
living town above. Moreover, this is the only point in Catania where the accident of a bit
of wall arresting for some time the progress of the lava current, has left the level of the
old town to be rigidly ascertained.

Here, as at Aci-Reale, balconies at windows, for the most part supported by brackets, terminating
in human heads, give a rich, though rather a heavy, appearance to the street. Much amber is
found and worked at Catania. It has been lately discovered in a fossil state, and in contiguity
with fossil wood; but we were quite electrified at the price of certain little scent-bottles,
and other articles made of this production. You see it in all its possible varieties of colour,
opacity, or transparency. The green opalized kind is the most prized, and four pounds was demanded
for a pair of pendants of this colour for earrings. Besides the yellow sort, which is common
every where, we see the ruby red, which is very rare: some varieties are freckled, and some
of the sort which afforded subjects for Martial, and for more than one of the Greek anthologists,
with insects in its matrix. This kind, they say, is found exclusively on the coast of Catania.
There are such pieces the size of a hand, but it is generally in much smaller bits. Amber lies
under, or is formed upon the sand, and abounds most near the embouchure of a small river in
this neighbourhood. Many beautiful shells, fossils, and other objects of natural history, appear
in the dealers' trays; and polished knife-handles of Sicilian agate may be had at five dollars
a dozen.

THE LAST OF THE KNIGHTS.

DON JOHN AND THE HERETICS OF FLANDERS.

It would almost seem as though chivalry were one of the errors of Popery; so completely did
the spirit of the ancient orders of knighthood evaporate at the Reformation! The blind enthusiasm
of ignorance having engendered superstitions of every kind and colour, the blow struck at the
altar of the master idol proved fatal to all.

In Elizabeth's time, the forms and sentiment of chivalry were kept up by an effort. The parts
enacted by Sidney and Raleigh, appear studied rather than instinctive. At all events, the gallant
Sir Philip was the last of English knights, as he was the first of his time. Thenceforward,
the valour of the country assumed a character more professional.

But a fact thus familiar to us of England, is more remarkable of the rest of Europe. The infallibility
of Rome once assailed, every faith was shaken. Loyalty was lessened, chivalry became extinct;
expiring in France with Henri IV. and the League--in Portugal with Don Sebastian of Braganza--and
in Spain with Charles V., exterminated root and branch by the pen of Cervantes.

One of the most brilliant effervescences, however, of those crumbling institutions, is connected
with Spanish history, in the person of Don John of Austria;--a prince who, if consecrated by
legitimacy to the annals of the throne, would have glorified the historical page by a thousand
heroic incidents. But the sacrament of his baptism being unhappily unpreceded by that of a
marriage, he has bequeathed us one of those anomalous existences--one of those incomplete destinies,
which embitter our admiration with disappointment and regret.

On both sides of royal blood, Don John was born with qualifications to adorn a throne. It is
true that when his infant son was entrusted by Charles V. to the charge of the master of his
household, Don Quexada, the emperor simply described him as the offspring of a lady of Ratisbon,
named Barbara Blomberg. But the Infanta Clara Eugenia was confidentially informed by her father
Philip II., and confidentially informed her satellite La Cuea, that her uncle was "every way
of imperial lineage;" and but that he was the offspring of a crime, Don John had doubtless
been seated on one of those thrones to which his legitimate brother Philip imparted so little
distinction.

Forced by the will of Charles V. to recognize the consanguinity of Don John, and treat him
with brotherly regard, one of the objects of the hateful life of the father of Don Carlos seems
to have been to thwart the ambitious instincts of his brilliant Faulconbridge. For in the boiling
veins of the young prince abided the whole soul of Charles V.,--valour, restlessness, ambition;
and his romantic life and mysterious death bear alike the tincture of his parentage.

That was indeed the age of the romance of royalty! Mary at Holyrood,--Elizabeth at Kenilworth--Carlos
at the feet of his mother-in-law,--the Béarnais at the gates of Paris,--have engraved their
type in the book of universal memory. But Don John escapes notice--a solitary star outshone
by dazzling constellations. Commemorated by no medals, flattered by no historiographer, sung
by no inspired "godson," anointed by neither pope nor primate, his nook in the temple of fame
is out of sight, and forgotten.

Even his master feat, the gaining of the battle of Lepanto, brings chiefly to our recollection
that the author of Don Quixote lost his hand in the action; and in the trivial page before
us, we dare not call our hero by the name of "Don Juan," (by which he is known in Spanish history,)
lest he be mistaken for the popular libertine! And thus, the last of the knights has been stripped
of his name by the hero of the "Festin de Pierre," and of his honours by Cervantes, as by Philip
II. of a throne.--

Hard fate for one described by all the writers of his time as a model of manly grace and Christian
virtue! How charming is the account given by the old Spanish writers of the noble youth, extricated
from his convent to be introduced on the high-road to a princely cavalier, surrounded by his
retinue, whom he is first desired to salute as a brother, and then required to worship, as
the king of Spain! We are told of his joy on discovering his filial relationship to the great
emperor, so long the object of his admiration. We are told of his deeds of prowess against
the Turks at Lepanto, at Tunis against the Moor. We are told of the proposition of Gregory
XIII. that he should be rewarded with the crown of Barbary, and of the desire of the revolted
nobility of Belgium, to raise him to their tottering throne; nay, we are even assured that
"la couronne d'Hibernie" was offered to his acceptance. And finally, we are told of his untimely
death and glorious funeral--mourned by all the knighthood of the land! But we hear and forget.
Some mysterious counter-charm has stripped his laurels of their verdure. Even the lesser incidents
of the life of Don John are replete with the interest of romance. When appointed by Philip
II. governor of the Netherlands, in order that he might deal with the heretics of the Christian
faith as with the faithful of Mahomet, such deadly vengeance was vowed against his person by
the Protestant party headed by Horn and the Prince of Orange, that it was judged necessary
for his highness to perform his journey in disguise. Attired as a Moorish slave, he reached
Luxembourg as the attendant of Ottavio Gonzaga, brother of Prince Amalfi, at the very moment
the troops of the king of Spain were butchering eight thousand citizens in his revolted city
of Antwerp!--

The arrival of the new governor afforded the signal for more pacific measures. The dispositions
of Don John were humane--his manners frank. Aware that the Belgian provinces were exhausted
by ten years of civil war, and that the pay of the Spanish troops he had to lead against them
was so miserably in arrear as to compel them to acts of atrocious spoliation, the hero of Lepanto
appears to have done his best to stop the effusion of blood; and, notwithstanding the counteraction
of the Prince of Orange, the following spring, peace and an amnesty were proclaimed. The treaty
signed at Marche, (known by the name of the Perpetual Edict,) promised as much tranquillity
as was compatible with the indignation of a country which had seen the blood of its best and
noblest poured forth, and the lives and property of its citizens sacrificed without mercy or
calculation.

But, though welcomed to Brussels by the acclamations of the people and the submission of the
States, Don John appears to have been fully sensible that his head was within the jaws of the
lion. The blood of Egmont had not yet sunk into the earth; the echoes of the edicts of Alva
yet lingered in the air; and the very stones of Brussels appeared to rise up and testify against
a brother of Philip II.!

Right thankful, therefore, was the young prince when an excuse was afforded for establishing
himself in a more tenable position, by an incident which must again be accounted among the
romantic adventures of his life. For the sudden journey of the fascinating Margaret of Valois
to the springs of Spa, on pretence of indisposition, was generally attributed to a design against
the heart of the hero of Lepanto.

A prince so remarkable for his gallantry of knighthood, could do no less than wait upon the
sister of the French king, on her passage through Namur; and, once established in the citadel
of that stronghold of the royalists, he quitted it no more. In process of time, a camp was
formed in the environs, and fortresses erected on the banks of the Meuse under the inspection
of Don John; nor was it at first easy to determine whether his measures were actuated by mistrust
of the Protestants, or devotion to the worst and most Catholic of wives of the best and most
Huguenot of kings.

The blame of posterity, enlightened by the journal of Queen Margaret's proceedings in Belgium,
(bequeathed for our edification by the alienated queen of Henri IV.,) has accused Don John
of blindness, in the right-loyal reception bestowed on her, and the absolute liberty accorded
her during her residence at Spa, where she was opening a road for the arrival of her brother
the Duke of Alençon. It is admitted, indeed, that her attack upon his heart met with defeat.
But the young governor is said to have made up in chivalrous courtesies for the disappointment
of her tender projects; and Margaret, if she did not find a lover at Namur, found the most
assiduous of knights.

Many, indeed, believe that his attentions to the French princess were as much a feint as her
own illness; and that he was as completely absorbed in keeping at bay his heretic subjects,
as her highness by the desire of converting them into the subjects of France. It was only those
admitted into the confidence of Don John who possessed the clue to the mystery.

Ottavio Gonzaga, on his return from a mission to Madrid with which he had been charged by Don
John, was the first to acquaint him with the suspicions to which the sojourn of Margaret had
given rise.

"I own I expected to find your highness in better cheer," said he, when the first compliments
had been exchanged. "Such marvels have been recounted in Spain of your fêtes and jousts of
honour, that I had prepared myself to hear of nothing at headquarters but the silken pastimes
of a court."

"Instead of which," cried Don John, "you find me, as usual, in my steel jerkin, with no milder
music at command than the trumpets of my camp; my sole duty, the strengthening of yonder lines,"
continued he, (pointing from a window of the citadel, near which they were standing, commanding
the confluence of the Sambre and Meuse,) "and my utmost diversion, an occasional charge against
the boars in yonder forest of Marlagne!"

"I cannot but suppose it more than occasional," rejoined Gonzaga; "for I must pay your highness
the ill compliment of avowing, that you appear more worn by fatigue and weather at this moment,
and in this sunless clime, than at the height of your glorious labours in the Mediterranean!
Namur has already ploughed more wrinkles on your brow than Barbary or Lepanto."

"Say rather in my heart!" cried the impetuous prince. "Since you quitted me, six months ago,
my dear Gonzaga, I have known nothing but cares! To you I have no scruple in avowing, that
my position in this country is hateful. So long accustomed to war against a barbarous enemy,
I could almost fancy myself as much a Moor at heart, as I appeared in visage, when in your
service on my way to Luxembourg, whenever I find my sword uplifted against a Christian breast!--Civil
war, Ottavio, is a hideous and repugnant thing!"--

"The report is true, then, that your highness has become warmly attached to the people of these
rebel provinces?" demanded Gonzaga, not choosing to declare the rumour prevalent in Spain,
that an opportunity had been afforded to the prince by the Barlaimont faction, of converting
his viceroyalty into the sway of absolute sovereignty.

"So much the reverse, that the evil impression they made on me at my arrival, has increased
a hundred-fold! I abhor them yet more and more. Flemings or Brabançons, Hainaulters or Walloons,
Catholic or Calvinist, the whole tribe is my aversion; and despite our best endeavours to conceal
it, I am convinced the feeling is reciprocal!"

"If your highness was equally candid in your avowals to the Queen of Navarre," observed Gonzaga
gravely,--"I can scarcely wonder at the hopes she is said to entertain of having won over the
governor of Mons to the French interest, during her transit through Flanders."

"Ay, indeed? Is such her boast?" cried the prince, laughing. "It may indeed be so!--for never
saw I a woman less scrupulous in the choice or use of arms to fight her battles. But, trust
me, whatever her majesty may have accomplished, is through no aiding or abetting of mine."

"Yet surely the devoted attentions paid her by your highness"--

"My highness made them appear devoted in proportion to his consciousness of their hollowness!
But I promise you, my dear Ottavio, there is no tenderer leaning in my heart towards Margaret
de Valois, than towards the most thicklipped of the divinities who competed for our smiles
at Tunis."

Gonzaga shrugged his shoulders. He was convinced that, for once, Don John was sinking the friend
in the prince. His prolonged absence had perhaps discharged him from his post as confidant.

"Trust me," cried the young soldier, discerning his misgivings--"I am as sincere in all this
as becomes our friendship. But that God has gifted me with a happy temperament, I should scarcely
support the disgusts of my present calling. It is much, my dear Gonzaga, to inherit as a birthright
the brand of such an ignominy as mine. But as long as I trusted to conquer a happier destiny--to
carve out for myself fortunes as glorious as those to which my blood all but entitles me--I
bore my cross without repining. It was this ardent hope of distinction that lent vigour to
my arm in battle--that taught prudence to my mind in council. I was resolved that even the
base-born of Charles V. should die a king!"--

Gonzaga listened in startled silence. To hear the young viceroy thus bold in the avowal of
sentiments, which of late he had been hearing imputed to him at the Escurial as the direst
of crimes, filled him with amazement.

"But these hopes have expired!" resumed Don John. "The harshness with which, on my return triumphant
from Barbary, my brother refused to ratify the propositions of the Vatican in my favour, convinced
me that I have nothing to expect from Philip beyond the perpetual servitude of a satellite
of the King of Spain."

Gonzaga glanced mechanically round the chamber at the emission of these treasonable words.
But there was nothing in its rude stone walls to harbour an eavesdropper.

"Nor is this all!" cried his noble friend. "My discovery of the unbrotherly sentiments of Philip
has tended to enlighten me towards the hatefulness of his policy. The reserve of his nature--the
harshness of his soul--the austerity of his bigotry--chill me to the marrow!--The Holy Inquisition
deserves, in my estimation, a name the very antithesis of holy."

"I beseech your highness!" cried Ottavio Gonzaga--clasping his hands together in an irrepressible
panic.

"Never fear, man! There be neither spies nor inquisitors in our camp; and if there were, both
they and you must even hear me out!" cried Don John. "There is some comfort in discharging
one's heart of matters that have long lain so heavy on it; and I swear to you, Gonzaga, that,
instead of feeling surprised to find my cheeks so lank, and my eyes so hollow, you would rather
be amazed to find an ounce of flesh upon my bones, did you know how careful are my days, and
how sleepless my nights, under the perpetual harassments of civil war!--The haughty burgesses
of Ghent, whom I could hate from my soul but that they are townsmen of my illustrious father,
the low-minded Walloons, the morose Brugeois, the artful Brabançons--all the varied tribes,
in short, of the old Burgundian duchy, seem to vie with each other which shall succeed best
in thwarting and humiliating me. And for what do I bear it? What honour or profit shall I reap
on my patience? What thanks derive for having wasted my best days and best energies, in bruising
with my iron heel the head of the serpent of heresy? Why, even that Philip, for some toy of
a mass neglected or an ave forgotten, will perchance give me over to the tender questioning
of his grand inquisitor, as the shortest possible answer to my pretensions to a crown,--while
the arrogant nobility of Spain, when roused from their apathy towards me by tidings of another
Lepanto, a fresh Tunis, will exclaim with modified gratification--'There spoke the blood of
Charles the Fifth! Not so ill fought for a bastard!'"

Perceiving that the feelings of his highness were chafed, the courtier, as in vocation bound,
assured him he underrated the loyalty towards him of his fellow countrymen of the Peninsula;
and that his services as governor of the Low Countries were fully appreciated.

"So fully, that I should be little surprised to learn the axe was already sharpened that is
to take off my head!" cried Don John, with a scornful laugh. "And such being the exact state
of my feelings and opinions, my trusty Gonzaga, I ask you whether I am likely to have proved
a suitable Petrarch for so accomplished a Laura as the sister of Henry III?"--

"I confess myself disappointed," replied the crafty Italian.--"I was in hopes that your highness
had found recreation as well as glory in Belgium. During my sojourn at the court of Philip,
I supported with patience the somewhat ceremonious gravity of the Escurial, in the belief that
your highness was enjoying meanwhile those festal enlivenments, which none more fully understand
how to organize and adorn."

"If such an expectation really availed to enliven the Escurial," cried Don John recklessly,
"your friendship must indeed possess miraculous properties! However, you may judge with your
own eyes the pleasantness of my position; and every day that improves your acquaintance with
the ill blood and ill condition of this accursed army of the royalists, ill-paid, ill-disciplined,
and ill-intentioned, will inspire you with stronger yearnings after our days of the Mediterranean,
where I was master of myself and of my men."

"And all this was manifested to Margaret, and all this will serve to comfort the venomous heart
of the queen mother!"--ejaculated Gonzaga, shrugging his shoulders.

"Not a syllable, not a circumstance! The Queen of Navarre was far too much engrossed by the
manoeuvres of her own bright eyes, to take heed of those of my camp."

"Your highness is perhaps less well aware than might be desirable, of how many things a woman's
eyes are capable of doing, at one and the same time!"--retorted the Italian.

"I only wish," cried Don John impatiently, "that instead of having occasion to read me those
Jeremiads, you had been here to witness the friendship you so strangely exaggerate! A ball,
an excursion on the Meuse, a boar hunt in the forest of Marlagne, constitute the pastimes you
are pleased to magnify into an imperial ovation."

"Much may be confided amid the splendour of a ball-room,--much in one poor half hour of a greenwood
rendezvous!"--persisted the provoking Ottavio.

"Ay--much indeed!" responded Don John, with a sigh so deep that it startled by its significance
the attention of his brother in arms. "But not to such a woman as the Queen of Henri the Béarnais!"
returned the Prince. "By our Lady of Liesse! I wish no worse to that heretic prince, than to
have placed his honour in the keeping of the gente Margot."

Fain would Gonzaga have pursued the conversation, which had taken a turn that promised wonders
for the interest of the despatches he had undertaken to forward to the Escurial, in elucidation
of the designs and sentiments of Don John,--towards whom his allegiance was as the kisses of
Judas! But the imperial scion, (who, when he pleased, could assume the unapproachability of
the blood royal,) made it apparent that he was no longer in a mood to be questioned. Having
proposed to the new-comer (to whom, as an experienced commander, he destined the colonelship
of his cavalry,) that they should proceed to a survey of the fortifications at Bouge, they
mounted their horses, and, escorted by Nignio di Zuniga, the Spanish aide-de-camp of the prince,
proceeded to the camp.

The affectionate deference testified towards the young governor by all classes, the moment
he made his appearance in public, appeared to Gonzaga strangely in contradiction with the declarations
of Don John that he was no favourite in Belgium. The Italian forgot that the Duke of Arschot,
the Counts of Mansfeld and Barlaimont, while doffing their caps to the representative of the
King of Spain, had as much right to behold in him the devoted friend of Don John of Austria,
as he to regard them as the faithful vassals of his government.

A fair country is the country of Namur!--The confluent streams--the impending rocks--the spreading
forests of its environs, comprehend the finest features of landscape; nor could Ottavio Gonzaga
feel surprised that his prince should find as much more pleasure in those breesy plains than
in the narrow streets of Brussels, as he found security and strength.

On the rocks overhanging the Meuse, at some distance from the town, stands the village of Bouge,
fortified by Don John; to attain which by land, hamlets and thickets were to be traversed;
and it was pleasant to see the Walloon peasant children run forth from the cottages to salute
the royal train, making their heavy Flemish chargers swerve aside and perform their lumbering
cabrioles far more deftly than the cannonading of the rebels, to which they were almost accustomed.

As they cut across a meadow formed by the windings of the Meuse, they saw at a distance a group
formed, like most groups congregated just then in the district, of soldiers and peasants; to
which the attention of the prince being directed, Nignio di Zuniga, his aide-de-camp, was dispatched
to ascertain the cause of the gathering.

"A nothing, if it please your highness!" was the reply of the Spaniard--galloping back, hat
in hand, with its plumes streaming in the breeze;--that the Prince's train, which had halted,
might resume its pace.

"But a nothing of what sort?" persisted Don John, who appreciated the trivialties of life very
differently from those by whom he was surrounded.

"A village grievance!--An old woman roaring her lungs out for a cow which has been carried
off by our troopers!"--grumbled the aide-de-camp, with less respect than was usual to him.

"And call you that a nothing?"--exclaimed his master. "By our lady of Liesse, it is an act
of cruelty and oppression--a thing calculated to make us hateful in the eyes of the village!--And
many villages, my good Nignio, represent districts, and many districts provinces, and provinces
a country; and by an accumulation of such resentments as the indignation of this old crone,
will the King of Spain and the Catholic faith be driven out of Flanders!--See to it! I want
no further attendance of you this morning! Let the cow be restored before sunset, and the marauders
punished."

"But if, as will likely prove the case, the beast is no longer in its skin?"--demanded the
aide-de-camp. "If the cow should have been already eaten, in a score of messes of pottage?"

"Let her have compensation."

"The money chest at headquarters, if it please your highness, is all but empty," replied Nignio,
glancing with a smile towards Gonzaga,--as though they were accustomed to jest together over
the reckless openness of heart and hand of their young chief.

"Then, by the blessed shrine of St Jago, give the fellows at least the strappado," cried Don
John, out of all patience. "Since restitution may not be, be the retribution all the heavier."

"It is ever thus," cried he, addressing himself to Gonzaga, as the aide-de-camp resumed his
plumed beaver, and galloped off with an imprecation between his lips, at having so rustic a
duty on his hands, instead of accompanying the parade of his royal master. "It goes against
my conscience to decree the chastisement of these fellows. For i' faith, they that fight, must
feed; and hunger, that eats through stone walls, is apt to have a nibble at honesty. My royal
brother, or those who have the distribution of his graces, is so much more liberal of edicts
and anathemas than of orders on the treasury of Spain, that money and rations are evermore
wanting. If these Protestants persist in their stand against us, I shall have to go forth to
all the Catholic cities of the empire, preaching, like Peter the hermit, to obtain contributions
from the pious!"

"His Majesty is perhaps of opinion," observed Gonzaga, "that rebels and heretics ought to supply
the maintenance of the troops sent to reduce them to submission."

"A curious mode of engaging their affections towards either the creed or prince from which
they have revolted!" cried Don John. "But you say true, Ottavio. Such are precisely the instructions
of my royal brother; whom the Almighty soften with a more Christian spirit in his upholding
of the doctrines of Christianity!--I am bidden to regard myself as in a conquered country.
I am bidden to feel myself as I may have felt at Modon or Lepanto. It may not be, it may not
be!--These people were the loyal subjects of my forefathers. These people are the faithful
followers of Christ."

"Let us trust that the old woman may get back her cow, and your highness's tender conscience
stand absolved,"--observed Gonzaga with a smile of ill-repressed derision. "I fear, indeed,
that the Court of the Escurial is unprepared with sympathy for such grievances."

"Gonzaga!"--exclaimed Don John, suddenly reining up his horse, and looking his companion full
in the face, "these are black and bitter times; and apt to make kings, princes, nobles, ay,
and even prelates, forget that they are men; or rather that there be men in the world beside
themselves."--Then allowing his charger to resume its caracolling, to give time to his startled
friend to recover from the glow of consciousness burning on his cheek,--he resumed with a less
stern inflexion. "It is the vexation of this conviction that hath brought my face to the meagreness
and sallow tint that accused the scorching sun of Barbary. I love the rush of battle. The clash
of swords or roaring of artillery is music to me. There is joy in contending, life for life,
with a traitor, and marshaling the fierce battalions on the field. But the battle done, let
the sword be sheathed! The struggle over, let the blood sink into the earth, and the deadly
smoke disperse, and give to view once more the peace of heaven!--The petty aggravations of
daily strife,--the cold-blooded oppressions of conquest,--the contest with the peasant for
his morsel of bread, or with his chaste wife for her fidelity,--are so revolting to my conscience
of good and evil, that as the Lord liveth there are moments when I am tempted to resign for
ever the music I love so well of drum and trumpet, and betake myself, like my royal father,
to some drowsy monastery, to listen to the end of my days to the snuffling of Capuchins!"

Scarce could Ottavio Gonzaga, so recently emancipated from the Escurial, refrain from making
the sign of the cross at this heinous declaration!--But he contained himself.--It was his object
to work his way still further into the confidence of his royal companion.

"The chief pleasure I derived from the visit of the French princess to Namur," resumed Don
John, "was the respite it afforded from the contemplation of such miseries and such aggressions.
I was sick at heart of groans and murmurs,--weary of the adjustment of grievances. To behold
a woman's face, whereof the eyes were not red with weeping, was something!"--

"And the eyes of the fair Queen of Navarre are said to be of the brightest!" observed Gonzaga
with a sneer.

"As God judgeth my soul, I noted not their hue or brightness!" exclaimed Don John. "Her voice
was a woman's--her bearing a woman's--her tastes a woman's. And it brought back the memory
of better days to hear the silken robes of her train rustling around me, instead of the customary
clang of mail; and merry laughs instead of perpetual moans, or the rude oaths of my Walloons!"

An incredulous smile played on the handsome features of the Italian.--

"Have out your laugh!" cried Don John. "You had not thought to see the lion of Lepanto converted
into so mere a lap-dog!--Is it not so?"

"As little so as I can admit without the disrespect of denial to your highness,"--replied Gonzaga,
with a low obeisance. "My smile was occasioned by wonder that one so little skilled in feigning
as the royal lion of Lepanto, should even hazard the attempt. There, at least--and there alone--is
Don John of Austria certain of defeat!"

"I might, perhaps, waste more time in persuading you that the air of Flanders hath not taught
me lying as well as compassion," replied the Infant; "but that yonder green mound is our first
redoubt. The lines of Bouge are before you."

Professional discussion now usurped the place of friendly intercourse. On the arrival of the
prince, the drums of headquarters beat to arms; and a moment afterwards, Don John was surrounded
by his officers; exhibiting, in the issuing of his orders of the day, the able promptitude
of one of the first commanders of his time, tempered by the dignified courtesy of a prince
of the blood.

Even Ottavio Gonzaga was too much engrossed by the tactical debates carrying on around him,
to have further thought of the mysteries into which he was resolved to penetrate.

It was not till the decline of day, that the prince and his état major returned to Namur; invitations
having been frankly given by Don John to a score of his officers, to an entertainment in honour
of the return of his friend.

Amid the jovialty of such an entertainment, Gonzaga entertained little doubt of learning the
truth. The rough railleries of such men were not likely to respect so slight a circumvallation
as the honour of female reputation; and the glowing vintage of the Moselle and Rhine would
bring forth the secret among the bubbles of their flowing tides. And, in truth, scarcely were
the salvers withdrawn, when the potations of these mailed carousers produced deep oaths and
uproarious laughter; amid which was toasted the name of Margaret, with the enthusiasm due to
one of the originators of the massacre of St Bartholomew, from the most Catholic captains of
the founder of the Inquisition of Spain.

The admiration due to her beauty, was, however, couched in terms scarcely warranted on the
lips of men of honour, even by such frailties as Margaret's; and, to the surprise of Gonzaga,
no restraint was imposed by the presence of her imputed lover. It seemed an established thing,
that the name of Margaret was a matter of indifference in the ears of Don John!

That very night, therefore, (the banquet being of short continuance as there was to be a field-day
at daybreak, under the reviewal of the prince,) Ottavio Gonzaga, more than ever to seek in
his conjectures, resolved to address himself for further information to Nignio; to whom he
had brought confidential letters from his family in Spain, and who was an ancient brother in arms.

Having made out without much difficulty, the chamber occupied by the Spanish captain, in a
tower of the citadel overlooking the valley of the Sambre, there was some excuse for preventing
his early rest with a view to the morrow's exercises, in the plea of news from Madrid.

But as the Italian anticipated, ere he had half disburdened his budget of Escurial gossip,
Nignio de Zuniga had his own grievances to confide. Uppermost in his mind, was the irritation
of having been employed that morning in a cow-hunt; and from execrations on the name of the
old woman, enriched with all the blasphemies of a trooper's vocabulary,--it was no difficult
matter to glide to the general misdemeanours and malefactions of the sex. For Gabriel Nignio
was a man of iron,--bred in camps, with as little of the milk of human kindness in his nature
as his royal master King Philip; and it was his devout conviction, that no petticoat should
be allowed within ten leagues of any Christian encampment,--and that women were inflicted upon
this nether earth, solely for the abasement and contamination of the nobler sex.

"As if that accursed Frenchwoman, and the nest of jays, her maids of honour, were not enough
for the penance of an unhappy sinner for the space of a calendar year!"--cried he, still harping
upon the old woman.

"The visit of Queen Margaret must indeed have put you to some trouble and confusion," observed
Gonzaga carelessly. "From as much as is apparent of your householding, I can scarce imagine
how you managed to bestow so courtly a dame here in honour; or with what pastimes you managed
to entertain her."

"The sequins of Lepanto and piastres of his holiness were not yet quite exhausted," replied
Nignio. "Even the Namurrois came down handsomely. The sister of two French kings, and sister-in-law
of the Duke of Lorraine, was a person for even the thick-skulled Walloons to respect. It was
not money that was wanting--it was patience. O, these Parisians! Make me monkey-keeper, blessed
Virgin, to the beast garden of the Escurial; but spare me for the rest of my days the honour
of being seneschal to the finikin household of a queen on her travels!"

Impossible to forbear a laugh at the fervent hatred depicted in the warworn features of the
Castilian captain, "I' faith, my clear Nignio," said Gonzaga, "for the squire of so gallant
a knight as Don John of Austria, your notions are rather those of Mahound or Termagaunt! What
would his highness say, were he to hear you thus bitter against his Dulcinea?"

"His Dulcinea!"--ejaculated the aide-de-camp with a air of disgust. "God grant it! For a princess
of Valois blood, reared under the teaching of a Medici, had at least the recommendations of
nobility and orthodoxy in her favour."

"As was the case when Anna di Mendoça effected the conquest over his boyish affections, so
generously pardoned by his royal brother!--But after such proof of the hereditary aspirings
of Don John, it would be difficult to persuade me of his highness's derogation."

"Would I could say as much!"--exclaimed Nignio, with a groan. "But such a cow-hunt as mine
of this morning, might convince the scepticism of St Thomas!"

"What, in the name of the whole calendar, have the affections of the prince in common with
your exploit?" said Gonzaga. "Would you have me infer that the son of Charles V. is enamoured
of a dairy wench?"--

"Of worse! of a daughter of the Amalekites!"--cried Nignio--stretching out his widely booted
legs, as though it were a relief to him to have disburthened himself of his mystery.

"I have not the honour of understanding you," replied the Italian,--no further versed in Scripture
history than was the pleasure of his almoner.

"You are his highness's friend, Gonzaga!" resumed the Spanish captain. "Even among his countrymen,
none so near his heart! I have therefore no scruple in acquainting you with a matter, wherein,
from the first, I determined to seek your counteraction. Though seemingly but a straw thrown
up into the air, I infer from it a most evil predilection on the part of Don John;--fatal to
himself, to us, his friends, and to the country he represents in Belgium."

"Nay, now you are serious indeed!" cried his companion, delighted to come to the point. "I
was in hopes it was some mere matter of a pair of rosy lips and a flaunting top-knot!"

"At the time Queen Margaret visited Namur," began the aide-de-camp--

"I knew it!" interrupted Gonzaga, "I was as prepared for it as for the opening of a fairy legend--'On
a time their lived a king and queen'--"

"Will you tell the story, then, or shall I?"--cried Nignio, impatient of his interruption.

"Yourself, my pearl of squires! granting me in the first place your pardon for my ill manners."--

"When Margaret de Valois visited Namur," resumed Nignio, "the best diversions we had to offer
to so fair and pious a princess were, first a Te Deum in the cathedral for her safe journey;
next, an entertainment of dancing and music at the town hall--and a gallant affair it was,
as far as silver draperies, and garlands of roses, and a blaze of light that seemed to threaten
the conflagration of the city, may be taken in praise. The queen had brought with her, as with
malice prepense, six of the loveliest ladies of honour gracing the court of the Louvre"--

"I knew it!"--again interrupted Gonzaga;--and again did Nignio gravely enquire of him whether
(since so well informed) he would be pleased to finish the history in his own way?

"Your pardon! your pardon!" cried the Italian, laying his finger on his lips. "Henceforward
I am mute as a carp of the Meuse."

"It afforded, therefore, some mortification to this astutious princess,--this daughter of Herodias,
with more than all her mother's cunning and cruelty in her soul,--to perceive that the Spanish
warriors, who on that occasion beheld for the first time the assembled nobility of Brabant
and Namur, were more struck by the Teutonic charms of these fair-haired daughters of the north,
(so antipodal to all we are accustomed to see in our sunburned provinces,) than by the mannered
graces of her pleasure-worn Parisian belles."--

"Certain it is," observed Gonzaga, (despite his recent pledge,) "that there is no greater contrast
than between our wild-eyed, glowing Andalusians, and the slow-footed, blue-eyed daughters of
these northern mists, whose smiles are as moonshine to sunshine!"

"After excess of sunshine, people sometimes prefer the calmer and milder radiance of the lesser
light. And I promise you that, at this moment, if there be pillows sleepless yonder in the
camp for the sake of the costly fragile toys called womankind, those jackasses of lovelorn
lads have cause to regret the sojourn of Queen Margaret in Belgium, only as having brought
forth from their castles in the Ardennes or the froggeries of the Low Country, the indigenous
divinities that I would were at this moment at the bottom of their muddy moats, or of the Sambre
flowing under yonder window!"--

"It is one of these Brabançon belles, then, who"--

Gabriel Nignio de Zuniga half rose from his chair, as a signal for breaking off the communication
he was not allowed to pursue in his own way.--Taking counsel of himself, however, he judged
that the shorter way was to tell his tale in a shorter manner, so as to set further molestation
at defiance.

"In one word," resumed he, with a vivacity of utterance foreign to his Spanish habits of grandiloquence,
"at that ball, there appeared among the dancers of the Coranto, exhibited before the tent of
state of Queen Margaret, a young girl whose tender years seemed to render the exhibition almost
an indiscretion; and whose aerial figure appeared to make her sojourn there, or any other spot
on earth a matter of wonder. Her dress was simple, her fair hair streamed on her shoulders.
It was one of the angels of your immortal Titian, minus the wings! Such was, at least, the
description given me by Don John, to enable me to ascertain among the Namurrois her name and
lineage, for the satisfaction (he said) of the queen, whose attention had been fascinated by
her beauty."

"And you proceeded, I doubt not, on your errand with all the grace and good-will I saw you
put into your commission of this morning?"--cried Gonzaga, laughing.

"And nearly the same result!--My answer to the enquiry of his highness was verbatim the same;
that the matter was not worth asking after. This white rose of the Meuse was not so much as
of a chapteral-house. Some piece of provincial obscurity that had issued from the shade, to
fill a place in the royal Coranto, in consequence of the indisposition of one of the noble
daughters of the house of Croy. Still, as in the matter of the cow-hunt, his highness had the
malice to persist! And next day, instead of allowing me to attend him in his barging with the
royal Cleopatra of this confounded Cydnus of Brabant, I was dispatched into all quarters of
Namur to seek out a pretty child with silken hair and laughing eyes, whom some silly grandam
had snatched out of its nursery to parade at a royal fête.--Holy St Laurence! how my soul grilled
within my skin!--I did, as you may suppose, as much of his highness's pleasure as squared with
my own; and had the satisfaction of informing him, on his return, that the bird had fled."--

"And there was an end of the matter?"--

"I hoped so! But I am not precisely the confessor his highness is likely to select when love
constitutes the sin. At all events, the bustle of Margaret's departure for Spa, the care of
the royal escort, and the payment of all that decency required us to take upon ourselves of
the cost of our hospitality, engrossed my time and thoughts. But the first time the Infant
beset me, (as he has doubtless done yourself,) with his chapter of lamentations over the sufferings
of Belgium,--the lawlessness of the camp--the former loyalty of the provinces--the tenderness
of conscience of the heretics,--and the eligibility of forbearance and peace,--I saw as plain
as though the word were inscribed by the burning finger of Satan, that the turkois eyes and
flaxen ringlets were the text of all this snivelling humanity!'

"Blessings on the tender consciences of the heretics, who were burning Antwerp and Ghent, and
plundering the religious houses and putting their priests to the sword!" ejaculated Gonzaga.

"The exigencies of the hour, however, left little leisure to Don John for the nursing of his
infant passion; and a few weeks past, I entertained hopes that, Queen Margaret being safe back
at her Louvre, the heart of the Prince was safe back in its place; more especially when he
one day proposed to me an exploit savouring more of his days of Lepanto than I had expected
at his hands again. Distracted by the false intelligence wherewith we were perpetually misled
by the Brabançon scouts, Don John determined on a sortie in disguise, towards the intrenchments
of the enemy, betwixt the Sambre and Dyle. Rumour of the reinforcements of English troops dispatched
to the heretics by Queen Elizabeth at the instance of the diet of Worms, rendered him anxious;
and bent upon ascertaining the exact cantonments of Colonel Norris and his Scottish companies,
we set forward before daybreak towards the forest of Marlagne, as for a hunting expedition;
then exchanging our dresses for the simple suits of civilians at the house of the verderer,
made our way across the Sambre towards Gembloux."

"A mad project!--But such were ever the delight of our Quixote!"--cried Gonzaga.

"In this instance, all prospered. We crossed the country without obstacle, mounted on two powerful
Mecklenburgers; and before noon, were deep in Brabant. The very rashness of the undertaking
seemed to restore to Don John his forgotten hilarity of old! He was like a truant schoolboy,
that has cheated his pedagogue of a day's bird-nesting; and eyes more discerning than those
of the stultified natives of these sluggish provinces, had been puzzled to detect under the
huge patch that blinded him of an eye, and the slashed sleeve of his sad-coloured suit that
showed him wounded of an arm, the gallant host of Queen Margaret! 'My soul comes back into
me with this gallop across the breezy plain, unencumbered by the trampling of a guard!' cried
the Prince. 'There is the making in me yet of another Lepanto! But two provinces remain faithful
to our standard: his highness of Orange and the Archduke having filched, one by one, from their
allegiance the hearts of these pious Netherlanders; who can no better prove their fear of God
than by ceasing to honour the king he hath been pleased to set over them. Nevertheless, with
Luxembourg and Namur for our vantage-ground, and under the blessing of his holiness, the banner
under which I conquered the infidel, shall, sooner or later, float victorious under this northern
sky!'

"Such was the tenour of his discourse as we entered a wood, halfway through which, the itinerary
I had consulted informed me we had to cross a branch of the Dyle. But on reaching the ferry-house
of this unfrequented track, we found only two sumpter-mules tied to a tree near the hovel,
and a boat chained to its stump beside the stream. In answer to our shouts, no vestige of a
ferryman appeared; and behold the boat-chain was locked, and the current too deep and strong
for fording.

"Where there is smoke there is fire! No boat without a boatman!" cried the Prince; and leaping
from his horse, which he gave me to hold, and renewing his vociferations, he was about to enter
the ferry-house, when, just as he reached the wooden porch, a young girl, holding her finger
to her lips in token of silence, appeared on the threshold!"

"She of the turkois eyes and flaxen ringlets, for a hundred pistoles!"--cried Gonzaga. "Such
then was the bird's nest that made him so mad a truant!"

"As she retreated into the house," resumed Nignio, without noticing the interruption, "his
highness followed, hat in hand, with the deference due to a gouvernante of Flanders. But as
the house was little better than a shed of boards, by drawing a trifle nearer the porch, not
a syllable of their mutual explanation escaped me.

"'Are you a follower of Don John?'--was the first demand of the damsel. 'Do you belong to the
party of the States?'--the next; to both which questions, a negative was easily returned. After
listening to the plea, fluently set forth by the prince, that he was simply a Zealand burgess,
travelling on his own errand, and sorely in fear of falling in (God wot) with either Protestants
or Papists, the damsel appeared to hail the arrival of so congenial an ally as a blessing;
acquainted him with a rash frankness of speech worthy of his own, that she was journeying from
the Ardennes towards the frontier of Brabant, where her father was in high command; that the
duenna her companion, outwearied by the exercise, was taking her siesta within; for that her
pacing nag, having cast a shoe on reaching the wood, the ferryman had undertaken to conduct
to the nearest smithy the venerable chaplain and serving-man constituting her escort.

"'Half a league from hence,' said she, 'my father's people are in waiting to escort me during
the rest of my journey.'

"'Yet surely, gentle lady,' observed the prince, 'considering the military occupation of the
province, your present protection is somewhat of the weakest?'--

"'It was expressly so devised by my father,' replied the open-hearted girl. 'The Spanish cavaliers
are men of honour, who war not against women and almoners. A more powerful attendance were
more likely to provoke animosity. Feebleness is sometimes the best security.'

"'Home is a woman's only security in times like these!'--cried the prince with animation.

"'And therefore to my home am I recalled,' rejoined the young girl, with a heavy sigh. 'Since
my mother's death, I have been residing with her sister in the Ardennes. But my good aunt having
had the weakness to give way to my instances, and carry me to Namur last summer, to take part
in the entertainments offered to the Queen of Navarre, my father has taken offence at both
of us; and I am sent for home to be submitted to sterner keeping.'

"You will believe that, ere all this was mutually explained, more time had elapsed than I take
in the telling it; and I could perceive by the voices of the speakers that they had taken seats,
and were awaiting, without much impatience, the return of the ferryman. The compassion of the
silly child was excited by the severe accident which the stranger described as the origin of
his fractures and contusions; nor need I tell you that the persuasive voice and deportment
of Don John are calculated to make even a more experienced one than this pretty Ulrica forget
his unseemly aspect and indigent apparel."

"And all this time the careful gouvernante snored within, and the obsequious aide-de-camp held
at the door the bridles of the Mecklenburgers"--

"Precisely. Nor found I the time hang much heavier than the prince; for at first mistrustful,
like yourself, that the reconnaissance into which he had beguiled me was a mere pretext, I
was not sorry to ascertain, sigh by sigh, and word by word, the grounds on which he stood with
the enemy. And you should have heard how artfully he contrived to lead her back to the fêtes
of Namur; asking, as with the curiosity of a bumpkin, the whole details of the royal entertainments!
No small mind had I to rush in and chuck the hussy into the torrent before me, when I heard
the little fiend burst forth into the most genuine and enthusiastic praises of the royal giver
of the feast,--'So young, so handsome, so affable, so courteous, so passing the kingliness
of kings.' She admitted, moreover, that it was her frantic desire of beholding face to face
the hero of Lepanto, which had produced the concession on the part of her kinswoman so severely
visited by her father.

"'But surely,' pleaded this thoughtless prattler, 'one may admire the noble deportment of a
Papist, and perceive the native goodness beaming in his eyes, without peril of salvation? This
whole morning hath my father's chaplain (who will be here anon) been giving scripture warrant
that I have no right to importune heaven with my prayers for the conversion of Don John:--Yet,
as my good aunt justly observes, the great grandson of Mary of Burgundy has his pedestal firm
in our hearts, beyond reach of overthrow from all the preachments of the Reformers'"--

"And you did not fling the bridles to the devil, and rush in to the rescue of the unguarded
soldier thus mischievously assailed?"--cried Gonzaga.

"It needed not! The old lady could not sleep for ever; and I had the comfort to hear her rouse
herself, and suitably reprehend the want of dignity of her charge in such strange familiarity
with strangers. To which the pretty Ulrica replied, 'That it was no fault of hers if people
wanted to convert a child into a woman!' A moment afterwards and the ferryman and cortège arrived
together; and a more glorious figure of fun than the chaplain of the heretic general hath seldom
bestridden a pacing nag! However, I was too glad of his arrival to be exceptious; and the whole
party were speedily embarked in the ferry, taking their turn as the first arrived at the spot,
which we twain abided, watching the punt across the stream, which, in consequence of the strength
of the current, it was indispensable to float down some hundred yards, in order to reach the
opposite shore.

"Hat in hand stood the prince, his eyes fixed upon the precious freight, and those of Ulrica
fixed in return upon her new and pleasant acquaintance; when, Jesu Maria!--as every thing that
is evil ordained it,--behold, the newly-shod palfrey of the pretty Brabançonne, irritated,
perhaps, by the clumsy veterinaryship of a village smithy, began suddenly to rear and plunge,
and set at defiance the old dunderhead by whom it was held!--The ass of a ferryman, in his
eagerness to lend his aid, let go his oar into the stream; and between the awkwardness of some
and the rashness of others, in a moment the whole party were carried round by the eddy of the
Dyle!--The next, and Ulrica was struggling in the waters"--

"And the next, in the arms of the prince, who had plunged in to her rescue!"--

"You know him too well not to foresee all that follows. Take for granted, therefore, the tedious
hours spent at the ferry-house, in restoring to consciousness the exhausted women, half-dead
with cold and fright. Under the unguarded excitement of mind produced by such an incident,
I expected indeed every moment the self-betrayal of my companion; but that evil we escaped.
And when, late in the evening, the party was sufficiently recovered to proceed, I was agreeably
surprised to find that Don John was alive to the danger of escorting the fair Ulrica even so
far as the hamlet, where her father's people were in waiting."

"And where he had been inevitably recognized!"--

"The certainty of falling in with the troopers of Horn, rendered it expedient for us to return
to Namur with only half the object of his highness accomplished. But the babble of the old
chaplain had acquainted us with nearly all we wanted to know,-- namely, the number and disposal
of the Statists, and the position taken up by the English auxiliaries."

"And this second parting from Ulrica?"--

"Was a parting as between friends for life! The first had been the laughing farewell of pleasant
acquaintance. But now, ere she bade adieu to the gallant preserver of her life, she shred a
tress of her silken hair, still wet with the waters of the Dyle, which she entreated him to
keep for her sake. In return, he placed upon her finger the ruby presented to him by the Doge
of Venice, bearing the arms of the republic engraved on the setting; telling her that chance
had enabled him to confer an obligation on the governor of the Netherlands; and that, in any
strait or peril, that signet, dispatched in his name to Don John of Austria, would command
his protection."

"As I live, a choice romance!--almost worthy the pages of our matchless Boccaccio!" cried the
Italian. "A thousand pities but that the whole batch of Orangeists had been carried down the
Dyle!--However, the enemy's lines lie between them. They will meet no more. The Calvinist colonel
has doubtless his daughter under lock and key; and his highness has too much work cut out for
him by his rebels, to have time for peeping through the keyhole.--So now, good-night.--For
love-tales are apt to beget drowsiness; and i'faith we must be a-foot by break of day."

And having betaken himself to the chamber provided for him, Ottavio Gonzaga lost not an hour
or a syllable, in transcribing all he had learned from the Spanish aide-de-camp; that the state
of mind and feeling of the young viceroy might be speedily laid open to the full and uncongenial
investigation of his royal brother of the Escurial.

Part II.

A fortnight afterwards, was fought that famous battle of Gembloux, which added a new branch
to the laurels of Don John of Austria; and constitutes a link of the radiant chain of military
glories which binds the admiration of Europe to the soil of one of the obscurest of its countries!--Gembloux,
Ramillies, Nivelle, Waterloo, lie within the circuit of a morning's journey, as well as within
the circle of eternal renown.

By this brilliant triumph of the royalists, six thousand men-at-arms, their standards, banners,
and artillery, were lost to the States. The cavalry of Spain, under the command of Ottavio
Gonzaga, performed prodigies of valour; and the vanguard, under that of Gaspardo Nignio, equally
distinguished itself. But the heat of the action fell upon the main body of the army, which
had marched from Namur under the command of Don John; being composed of the Italian reinforcements
dispatched to him from Parma by desire of the Pope, under the command of his nephew, Prince
Alexander Farnese.

It was noticed, however, with surprise, that when the generals of the States--the Archduke
Matthias, and Prince of Orange--retreated in dismay to Antwerp, Don John, instead of pursuing
his advantage with the energy of his usual habits, seemed to derive little satisfaction or
encouragement from his victory. It might be, that the difficulty of controlling the predatory
habits of the German and Burgundian troops wearied his patience; for scarce a day passed but
there issued some new proclamation, reproving the atrocious rapacity and lawless desperation
of the army. But neither Gonzaga nor Nignio had much opportunity of judging of the real cause
of his cheerlessness; for, independent of the engrossing duties of their several commands,
the leisure of Don John was entirely bestowed upon his nephew, Alexander Farnese, who, only
a few years his junior in age, was almost a brother in affection.

To him alone were confided the growing cares of his charge--the increasing perplexities of
his mind. To both princes, the name of Ulrica had become, by frequent repetition, a sacred
word; and though Don John had the comfort of knowing that her father, the Count de Cergny,
was unengaged in the action of Gembloux, his highness had reason to fear that the regiment
of Hainaulters under his command, constituted the garrison of one or other of the frontier
fortresses of Brabant, to which it was now his duty to direct the conquering arms of his captains.

The army of the States having taken refuge within the walls of Antwerp, the royalists, instead
of marching straight to Brussels, according to general expectation, effected in the first instance
the reduction of Tirlemont, Louvain, D'Arschot, Sichem, and Diest,--Nivelle, the capital of
Walloon Brabant, next succumbed to their arms--Maubeuge, Chimay, Barlaimont;--and, after a
severe struggle, the new and beautiful town of Philippeville.

But these heroic feats were not accomplished without a tremendous carnage, and deeds of violence
at which the soul sickened. At Sichem, the indignation of the Burgundians against a body of
French troops which, after the battle of Gembloux, had pledged itself never again to bear arms
against Spain, caused them to have a hundred soldiers strangled by night, and their bodies
flung into the moat at the foot of the citadel; after which the town was given up by Prince
Alexander to pillage and spoliation! Terrified by such an example, Diest and Leeuw hastened
to capitulate. And still, at every fresh conquest, and while receiving day after day, and week
after week, the submission of fortresses, and capitulation of vanquished chiefs, the anxious
expectation entertained by Don John of an appeal to his clemency accompanying the Venetian
ring, was again and again disappointed!--

At times, his anxieties on Ulrica's account saddened him into utter despondency. He felt convinced
that mischance had overtaken her. All his endeavours to ascertain the position of the Count
de Cergny having availed him nothing, he trusted that the family must be shut up in Antwerp,
with the Prince of Orange and Archduke; but when every night, ere he retired to a soldier's
rugged pillow, and pressed his lips to that long fair tress which seemed to ensure the blessings
of an angel of purity and peace, the hopes entertained by Don John of tidings of the gentle
Ulrica became slighter and still more slight.

He did not the more refrain from issuing such orders and exacting such interference on the
part of Alexander Farnese, as promised to secure protection and respect to the families of
all such officers of the insurgent army as might, in any time or place, fall into the hands
of the royalists.

To Alexander, indeed, to whom his noble kinsman was scarcely less endeared by his chivalrous
qualities than the ties of blood, and who was fully aware of the motive of these instructions,
the charge was almost superfluous. So earnest were, from the first, his orders to his Italian
captains to pursue in all directions their enquiries after the Count de Cergny and his family,
that it had become a matter of course to preface their accounts of the day's movements with--"No
intelligence, may it please your highness, of the Count de Cergny!"

The siege of Limbourg, however, now wholly absorbed his attention; for it was a stronghold
on which the utmost faith was pinned by the military science of the States. But a breach having
been made in the walls by the Spanish artillery under the command of Nicolo di Cesi, the cavalry,
commanded in person by the Prince Alexander, and the Walloons under Nignio di Zuniga, speedily
forced an entrance; when, in spite of the stanch resistance of the governor, the garrison laid
down their arms, and the greater portion of the inhabitants took the oath of fealty to the king.

Of all his conquests, this was the least expected and most desirable; in devout conviction
of which, the Prince of Parma commanded a Te Deum to be sung in the churches, and hastened
to render thanks to the God of Battles for an event by which further carnage was spared to
either host.

Escorted by his état major, he had proceeded to the cathedral to join in the august solemnization;
when, lo! just as he quitted the church, a way-worn and heated cavalier approached, bearing
despatches; in whom the prince recognised a faithful attendant of his household, named Paolo
Rinaldo, whom he had recently sent with instructions to Camille Du Mont, the general charged
with the reduction of the frontier fortresses of Brabant.

"Be their blood upon their head!" was the spontaneous ejaculation of the prince, after perusing
the despatch. Then, turning to the officers by whom he was escorted, he explained, in a few
words, that the fortress of Dalem, which had replied to the propositions to surrender of Du
Mont only by the scornful voice of its cannon, had been taken by storm by the Burgundians,
and its garrison put to the sword.

"Time that some such example taught a lesson to these braggarts of Brabant!"--responded Nignio,
who stood at the right hand of Prince Alexander. "The nasal twang of their chaplains seems
of late to have overmastered, in their ears, the eloquence of the ordnance of Spain! Yet, i'faith,
they might be expected to find somewhat more unction in the preachments of our musketeers than
the homilies of either Luther or Calvin!"

He spoke unheeded of the prince; for Alexander was now engaged apart in a colloquy with his
faithful Rinaldo, who had respectfully placed in his hands a ring of great cost and beauty.

"Seeing the jewel enchased with the arms of the Venetian republic, may it please your highness,"
said the soldier, "I judged it better to remit it to your royal keeping."

"And from whose was it plundered?" cried the prince, with a sudden flush of emotion.

"From hands that resisted not!" replied Rinaldo gravely. "I took it from the finger of the dead!"

"And when, and where?"--exclaimed the prince, drawing him still further apart, and motioning
to his train to resume their march to the States' house of Limbourg.

"The tale is long and grievous, may it please your highness!" said Rinaldo. "To comprise it
in the fewest words, know that, after seeing the governor of Dalem cut down in a brave and
obstinate defence of the banner of the States floating from the walls of his citadel, I did
my utmost to induce the Baron de Cevray, whose Burgundians carried the place, to proclaim quarter.
For these fellows of Hainaulters, (who, to do them justice, had fought like dragons,) having
lost their head, were powerless; and of what use hacking to pieces an exhausted carcass?--But
our troops were too much exasperated by the insolent resistance and defiance they had experienced,
to hear of mercy; and soon the conduits ran blood, and shrieks and groans rent the air more
cruelly than the previous roar of the artillery. In accordance, however, with the instructions
I have ever received from your highness, I pushed my way into all quarters, opposing what authority
I might to the brutality of the troopers."

"Quick, quick!"--cried Prince Alexander in anxious haste--"Let me not suppose that the wearer
of this ring fell the victim of such an hour?"--

It was in passing the open doors of the church that my ears were assailed with cries of female
distresses:--nor could I doubt that even that sanctuary (held sacred by our troops of Spain!)
had been invaded by the impiety of the German or Burgundian legions!--As usual, the chief ladies
of the town had placed themselves under the protection of the high altar. But there, even there,
had they been seized by sacrilegious hands!--The fame of the rare beauty of the daughter of
the governor of Dalem, had attracted, among the rest, two daring ruffians of the regiment of
Cevray."

"You sacrificed them, I trust in GOD, on the spot?"--demanded the prince, trembling with emotion.
"You dealt upon them the vengeance due?"

"Alas! sir, the vengeance they were mutually dealing, had already cruelly injured the helpless
object of the contest! Snatched from the arms of the Burgundian soldiers by the fierce arm
of a German musketeer, a deadly blow, aimed at the ruffian against whom she was wildly but
vainly defending herself; had lighted on one of the fairest of human forms! Cloven to the bone,
the blood of this innocent being, scarce past the age of childhood, was streaming on her assailants;
and when, rushing in, I proclaimed, in the name of God and of your highness, quarter and peace,
it was an insensible body I rescued from the grasp of pollution!"

"Unhappy Ulrica!" faltered the prince, "and oh! my more unhappy kinsman!"

"Not altogether hopeless," resumed Rinaldo; "and apprized, by the sorrowful ejaculations of
her female companions when relieved from their personal fears, of the high condition of the
victim, I bore the insensible lady to the hospital of Dalem; and the utmost skill of our surgeons
was employed upon her wounds. Better had it been spared!--The dying girl was roused only to
the endurance of more exquisite torture; and while murmuring a petition for 'mercy--mercy to
her father!' that proved her still unconscious of her family misfortunes, she attempted in
vain to take from her finger the ring I have had the honour to deliver to your highness:--faltering
with her last breath, 'for his sake, Don John will perhaps show mercy to my poor old father!'"--

Prince Alexander averted his head as he listened to these mournful details.

"She is at rest, then?"--said he, after a pause.

"Before nightfall, sir, she was released."--

"Return in all haste to Dalem, Rinaldo," rejoined the prince, "and complete your work of mercy,
by seeing all honours of interment that the times admit, bestowed on the daughter of the Comte
de Cergny!"

Weary and exhausted as he was, not a murmur escaped the lips of the faithful Rinaldo as he
mounted his horse, and hastened to the discharge of his new duty. For though habituated by
the details of that cruel and desolating warfare to spectacles of horror--the youth--the beauty--the
innocence--the agonies of Ulrica, had touched him to the heart; nor was the tress of her fair
hair worn next the heart of Don John of Austria, more fondly treasured, than the one this rude
soldier had shorn from the brow of death, in the ward of a public hospital, albeit its silken
gloss was tinged with blood!--

Scarcely a month had elapsed after the storming of Dalem, when a terrible rumour went forth
in the camp of Bouge, (where Don John had intrenched his division of the royalist army,) that
the governor of the Netherlands was attacked by fatal indisposition!--For some weeks past,
indeed, his strength and spirit had been declining. When at the village of Rymenam on the Dyle,
near Mechlin, (not far from the ferry of the wood,) he suffered himself to be surprised by
the English troops under Horn, and the Scotch under Robert Stuart, the unusual circumstance
of the defeat of so able a general was universally attributed to prostration of bodily strength.

When it was soon afterwards intimated to the army that he had ceded the command to his nephew,
Prince Alexander Farnese, regret for the origin of his secession superseded every other consideration.

For the word had gone forth that he was to die!--In the full vigour of his manhood and energy
of his soul, a fatal blow had reached Don John of Austria!--

A vague but horrible accusation of poison was generally prevalent!--For his leniency towards
the Protestants had engendered a suspicion of heresy, and the orthodoxy of Philip II. was known
to be remorseless; and the agency of Ottavio Gonzaga at hand!--

But the kinsman who loved and attended him knew better. From the moment Prince Alexander beheld
the ring of Ulrica glittering on his wasted hand, he entertained no hope of his recovery; and
every time he issued from the tent of Don John, and noted the groups of veterans praying on
their knees for the restoration of the son of their emperor, and heard the younger soldiers
calling aloud in loyal affection upon the name of the hero of Lepanto, tears came into his
eyes as he passed on to the discharge of his duties. For he knew that their intercessions were
in vain--that the hours of the sufferer were numbered. In a moment of respite from his sufferings,
the sacraments of the church were administered to the dying prince; having received which with
becoming humility, he summoned around him the captains of the camp, and exhorted them to zeal
in the service of Spain, and fidelity to his noble successor in command.

It was the 1st of October, the anniversary of the action of Lepanto, and on a glorious autumnal
day of golden sunshine, that, towards evening, he ordered the curtains of his tent to be drawn
aside, that he might contemplate for the last time the creation of God!--

Raising his head proudly from a soldier's pillow, he uttered in hoarse but distinct accents
his last request, that his body might be borne to Spain, and buried at the feet of his father.
For his eyes were fixed upon the glories of the orb of day, and his mind upon the glories of
the memory of one of the greatest of kings.

But that pious wish reflected the last flash of human reason in his troubled mind. His eyes
became suddenly inflamed with fever, his words incoherent, his looks haggard. Having caused
them to sound the trumpets at the entrance of his tent, as for an onset, he ranged his battalions
for an imaginary field of battle, and disposed his manoeuvres, and gave the word to charge
against the enemy.[18] Then, sinking back upon his pillow, he breathed in subdued accents,
"Let me at least avenge her innocent blood. Why, why could I not save thee, my Ulrica!"--

[Footnote 18: The foregoing details are strictly historical.]

It was thus he died. When Nignio de Zuniga (cursing in his heart with a fourfold curse the
heretics whom he chose to consider the murderers of his master) stooped down to lay his callous
hand on the heart of the hero, the pulses of life were still!--

There was but one cry throughout the camp--there was but one thought among his captains:--"Let
the bravest knight of Christendom be laid nobly in the grave!" Attired in the suit of mail
in which he had fought at Lepanto, the body was placed on a bier, and borne forth from his
tent on the shoulders of the officers of his household. Then, having been saluted by the respect
of the whole army, it was transmitted from post to post through the camp, on those of the colonels
of the regiments of all nations constituting the forces of Spain.--And which of them was to
surmise, that upon the heart of the dead lay the love-token of a heretic?--A double line of
troops, infantry and cavalry in alternation, formed a road of honour from the camp of Bouge
to the gates of the city of Namur. And when the people saw, borne upon his bier amid the deferential
silence of those iron soldiers, bareheaded and with their looks towards the earth, the gallant
soldier so untimely stricken, arrayed in his armour of glory and with a crown upon his head,
after the manner of the princes of Burgundy, and on his finger the ruby ring of the Doge of
Venice, they thought upon his knightly qualities--his courtesy, generosity, and valour--till
all memory of his illustrious parentage became effaced. They forgot the prince in the man,--"and
behold all Israel mourned for Jonathan!"

A regiment of infantry, trailing their halberts, led the march, till they reached Namur, where
the precious deposit was remitted by the royalist generals, Mansfeldt, Villefranche, and La
Cros, to the hands of the chief magistrates of Namur. By these it was bourne in state to the
cathedral of St Alban; and during the celebration of a solemn mass, deposited at the foot of
the high altar till the pleasure of Philip II. should be known concerning the fulfilment of
the last request of Don John.

It was by Ottavio Gonzaga the tidings of his death were conveyed to Spain. It was by Ottavio
Gonzaga the king intimated, in return, his permission that the conqueror of Lepanto should
share the sepulture of Charles V., and all that now remains to Namur in memory of one of the
last of Christian knights, the Maccabeus of the Turkish hosts, who expired in its service and
at its gates, is an inscription placed on its high altar by the piety of Alexander Farnese,
intimating that it afforded a temporary resting place to the remains of DON JOHN of AUSTRIA.[19]

[Footnote 19: Thus far the courtesies of fiction. But for those who prefer historical fact,
it may be interesting to learn the authentic details of the interment of one whose posthumous
destinies seemed to share the incompleteness of his baffled life. In order to avoid the contestations
arising from the transit of a corpse through a foreign state, Nignio di Zuniga (who was charged
by Philip with the duty of conveying it to Spain, under sanction of a passport from Henri III.)
caused it to be dismembered, and the parts packed in three budgets, (bougettes,) and laid upon
packhorses!--On arriving in Spain, the parts were readjusted with wires!--"On remplit le corps
de bourre," says the old chronicler from which these details are derived, "et ainsi la structure
en aiant été comme rétablie, on le revétit de ses armes, et le fit voir au roi, tout debout
apuyé sur son bâton de général, de sorte qu'il semblait encore vivant. L'aspect d'un mort si
illustre ayant excité quelques larmes, on le porta à l'Escurial dans l'Eglise de St Laurens
auprez de son père."

Such is the account given in a curious old history (supplementary to those of D'Avila and Strada)
of the wars of the Prince of Parma, published at Amsterdam early in the succeeding century.
But a still greater insult has been offered to the memory of one of the last of Christian knights,
in Casimir Delavigne's fine play of "Don Juan d'Autriche," where he is represented as affianced
to a Jewess!]

POEMS AND BALLADS OF GOETHE.

No. I.

It may be as well to state at the outset, that we have not the most distant intention of laying
before the public the whole mass of poetry that flowed from the prolific pen of Goethe, betwixt
the days of his student life at Leipsic and those of his final courtly residence at Weimar.
It is of no use preserving the whole wardrobe of the dead; we do enough if we possess ourselves
of his valuables--articles of sterling bullion that will at any time command their price in
the market--as to worn-out and threadbare personalities, the sooner they are got rid of the
better. Far be it from us, however, to depreciate or detract from the merit of any of Goethe's
productions. Few men have written so voluminously, and still fewer have written so well. But
the curse of a most fluent pen, and of a numerous auditory, to whom his words were oracles,
was upon him; and seventy volumes, more or less, which Cotta issued from his wareroom, are
for the library of the Germans now, and for the selection of judicious editors hereafter. A
long time must elapse after an author's death, before we can pronounce with perfect certainty
what belongs to the trunk-maker, and what pertains to posterity. Happy the man--if not in his
own generation, yet most assuredly in the time to come--whose natural hesitation or fastidiousness
has prompted him to weigh his words maturely, before launching them forth into the great ocean
of literature, in the midst of which is a Maelstrom of tenfold absorbing power!

From the minor poems, therefore, of Goethe, we propose, in the present series, to select such
as are most esteemed by competent judges, including, of course, ourselves. We shall not follow
the example of dear old Eckermann, nor preface our specimens by any critical remarks upon the
scope and tendency of the great German's genius; neither shall we divide his works, as characteristic
of his intellectual progress, into eras or into epochs; still less shall we attempt to institute
a regular comparison between his merits and those of Schiller, whose finest productions (most
worthily translated) have already enriched the pages of this Magazine. We are doubtless ready
at all times to back our favourite against the field, and to maintain his intellectual superiority
even against his greatest and most formidable rival. We know that he is the showiest, and we
feel convinced that he is the better horse of the two; but talking is worse than useless when
the course is cleared, and the start about to commence.

Come forward, then, before the British public, O many-sided, ambidextrous Goethe, as thine
own Thomas Carlyle might, or could, or would, or should have termed thee, and let us hear how
the mellifluous Teutonic verse will sound when adapted to another tongue. And, first of all--for
we yearn to know it--tell us how thy inspiration came? A plain answer, of course, we cannot
expect--that were impossible from a German; but such explanation as we can draw from metaphor
and oracular response, seems to be conveyed in that favourite and elaborate preface to the
poems, which accordingly we may term the

INTRODUCTION.

  The morning came. Its footsteps scared away
    The gentle sleep that hover'd lightly o'er me;
  I left my quiet cot to greet the day
    And gaily climb'd the mountain-side before me.
  The sweet young flowers! how fresh were they and tender,
    Brimful with dew upon the sparkling lea;
  The young day open'd in exulting splendour,
    And all around seem'd glad to gladden me.

  And, as I mounted, o'er the meadow ground
    A white and filmy essence 'gan to hover;
  It sail'd and shifted till it hemm'd me round,
    Then rose above my head, and floated over.
  No more I saw the beauteous scene unfolded--
    It lay beneath a melancholy shroud;
  And soon was I, as if in vapour moulded,
    Alone, within the twilight of the cloud.

  At once, as though the sun were struggling through,
    Within the mist a sudden radiance started;
  Here sunk the vapour, but to rise anew,
    There on the peak and upland forest parted.
  O, how I panted for the first clear gleaming,
    That after darkness must be doubly bright!
  It came not, but a glory round me beaming,
    And I stood blinded by the gush of light.

  A moment, and I felt enforced to look,
    By some strange impulse of the heart's emotion;
  But more than one quick glance I scarce could brook,
    For all was burning like a molten ocean.
  There, in the glorious clouds that seem'd to bear her,
    A form angelic hover'd in the air;
  Ne'er did my eyes behold vision fairer,
    And still she gazed upon me, floating there.

  "Do'st thou not know me?" and her voice was soft
    As truthful love, and holy calm it sounded.
  "Know'st thou not me, who many a time and oft,
    Pour'd balsam in thy hurts when sorest wounded?
  Ah well thou knowest her, to whom for ever
    Thy heart in union pants to be allied!
  Have I not seen the tears--the wild endeavour
    That even in boyhood brought thee to my side?"

  "Yes! I have felt thy influence oft," I cried,
    And sank on earth before her, half-adoring;
  "Thou brought'st me rest when Passion's lava tide
    Through my young veins like liquid fire was pouring.
  And thou hast fann'd, as with celestial pinions,
    In summer's heat my parch'd and fever'd brow;
  Gav'st me the choicest gifts of earth's dominions,
    And, save through thee, I seek no fortune now.

  "I name thee not, but I have heard thee named,
    And heard thee styled their own ere now by many;
  All eyes believe at thee their glance is aim'd,
    Though thine effulgence is too great for any.
  Ah! I had many comrades whilst I wander'd--
    I know thee now, and stand almost alone:
  I veil thy light, too precious to be squander'd,
    And share the inward joy I feel with none."

  Smiling, she said--"Thou see'st 'twas wise from thee
    To keep the fuller, greater revelation:
  Scarce art thou from grotesque delusions free,
    Scarce master of thy childish first sensation;
  Yet deem'st thyself so far above thy brothers,
    That thou hast won the right to scorn them! Cease.
  Who made the yawning gulf 'twixt thee and others?
    Know--know thyself--live with the world in peace."

  "Forgive me!" I exclaim'd, "I meant no ill,
    Else should in vain my eyes be disenchanted;
  Within my blood there stirs a genial will--
    I know the worth of all that thou hast granted.
  That boon I hold in trust for others merely,
    Nor shall I let it rust within the ground;
  Why sought I out the pathway so sincerely,
    If not to guide my brothers to the bound?"

  And as I spoke, upon her radiant face
    Pass'd a sweet smile, like breath across a mirror;
  And in her eyes' bright meaning I could trace
    What I had answer'd well and what in error,
  She smiled, and then my heart regain'd its lightness,
    And bounded in my breast with rapture high:
  Then durst I pass within her zone of brightness,
    And gaze upon her with unquailing eye.

  Straightway she stretch'd her hand among the thin
    And watery haze that round her presence hover'd;
  Slowly it coil'd and shrunk her grasp within,
    And lo! the landscape lay once more uncover'd--
  Again mine eye could scan the sparkling meadow,
    I look'd to heaven, and all was clear and bright;
  I saw her hold a veil without a shadow,
    That undulated round her in the light.

  "I know thee!--all thy weakness, all that yet
    Of good within thee lives and glows, I've measured;"
  She said--her voice I never may forget--
    "Accept the gift that long for thee was treasured.
  Oh! happy he, thrice-bless'd in earth and heaven,
    Who takes this gift with soul serene and true,
  The veil of song, by Truth's own fingers given,
    Enwoven of sunshine and the morning dew.

  "Wave but this veil on high, whene'er beneath
    The noonday fervour thou and thine are glowing,
  And fragrance of all flowers around shall breathe,
    And the cool winds of eve come freshly blowing.
  Earth's cares shall cease for thee, and all its riot;
    Where gloom'd the grave, a starry couch be seen;
  The waves of life shall sink in halcyon quiet;
    The days be lovely fair, the nights serene."

  Come then, my friends, and whether 'neath the load
    Of heavy griefs ye struggle on, or whether
  Your better destiny shall strew the road
    With flowers, and golden fruits that cannot wither,
  United let us move, still forwards striving;
    So while we live shall joy our days illume,
  And in our children's hearts our love surviving
    Shall gladden them, when we are in the tomb.

This is a noble metaphysical and metaphorical poem, but purely German of its kind. It has been
imitated, not to say travestied, at least fifty times, by crazy students and purblind professors--each
of whom, in turn, has had an interview with the goddess of nature upon a hill-side. For our
own part, we confess that we have no great predilection for such mysterious intercourse, and
would rather draw our inspiration from tangible objects, than dally with a visionary Egeria.
But the fault is both common and national.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next specimen we shall offer is the far-famed Bride of Corinth. Mrs Austin says of this
poem very happily--"An awful and undefined horror breathes throughout it. In the slow measured
rhythm of the verse, and the pathetic simplicity of the diction, there is a solemnity and a
stirring spell, which chains the feelings like a deep mysterious strain of music." Owing to
the peculiar structure and difficulty of the verse, this poem has hitherto been supposed incapable
of translation. Dr Anster, who alone has rendered it into English, found it necessary to depart
from the original structure; and we confess that it was not without much labour, and after
repeated efforts, that we succeeded in vanquishing the obstacle of the double rhymes. If the
German scholar should perceive, that in three stanzas some slight liberties have been taken
with the original, we trust that he will perceive the reason, and at least give us credit for
general fidelity and close adherence to the text.

THE BRIDE OF CORINTH.

  I.

  A youth to Corinth, whilst the city slumber'd,
    Came from Athens: though a stranger there,
  Soon among its townsmen to be number'd,
    For a bride awaits him, young and fair:
      From their childhood's years
      They were plighted feres,
    So contracted by their parents' care.

  II.

  But may not his welcome there be hinder'd?
    Dearly must he buy it, would he speed.
  He is still a heathen with his kindred,
    She and her's wash'd in the Christian creed.
      When new faiths are born,
      Love and troth are torn
    Rudely from the heart, howe'er it bleed.

  III.

  All the house is hush'd. To rest retreated
    Father, daughters--not the mother quite;
  She the guest with cordial welcome greeted,
    Led him to a room with tapers bright;
      Wine and food she brought
      Ere of them he thought,
    Then departed with a fair good-night.

  IV.

  But he felt no hunger, and unheeded
    Left the wine, and eager for the rest
  Which his limbs, forspent with travel, needed,
    On the couch he laid him, still undress'd.
      There he sleeps--when lo!
      Onwards gliding slow,
    At the door appears a wondrous guest.

  V.

  By the waning lamp's uncertain gleaming
    There he sees a youthful maiden stand,
  Robed in white, of still and gentle seeming,
    On her brow a black and golden band.
        When she meets his eyes,
        With a quick surprise
    Starting, she uplifts a pallid hand.

  VI.

  "Is a stranger here, and nothing told me?
    Am I then forgotten even in name?
  Ah! 'tis thus within my cell they hold me,
    And I now am cover'd o'er with shame!
        Pillow still thy head
        There upon thy bed,
    I will leave thee quickly as I came."

  VII.

  "Maiden--darling! Stay, O stay!" and, leaping
    From the couch, before her stands the boy:
  "Ceres--Bacchus, here their gifts are heaping,
    And thou bringest Amor's gentle joy!
        Why with terror pale?
        Sweet one, let us hail
    These bright gods--their festive gifts employ."

  VIII.

  "Oh, no--no! Young stranger, come not nigh me;
    Joy is not for me, nor festive cheer.
  Ah! such bliss may ne'er be tasted by me,
    Since my mother, in fantastic fear,
        By long sickness bow'd,
        To heaven's service vow'd
    Me, and all the hopes that warm'd me here.

  IX.

  "They have left our hearth, and left it lonely--
    The old gods, that bright and jocund train.
  One, unseen, in heaven, is worshipp'd only,
    And upon the cross a Saviour slain;
        Sacrifice is here,
        Not of lamb nor steer,
    But of human woe and human pain."

  X.

  And he asks, and all her words cloth ponder--
    "Can it be, that, in this silent spot,
  I behold thee, thou surpassing wonder!
    My sweet bride, so strangely to me brought?
        Be mine only now--
        See, our parents' vow
    Heaven's good blessing hath for us besought."

  XI.

  "No! thou gentle heart," she cried in anguish;
    "'Tis not mine, but 'tis my sister's place;
  When in lonely cell I weep and languish,
    Think, oh think of me in her embrace!
        I think but of thee--
        Pining drearily,
    Soon beneath the earth to hide my face!"

  XII.

  "Nay! I swear by yonder flame which burneth,
    Fann'd by Hymen, lost thou shalt not be;
  Droop not thus, for my sweet bride returneth
    To my father's mansion back with me!
        Dearest! tarry here!
        Taste the bridal cheer,
    For our spousal spread so wondrously!"

  XIII.

  Then with word and sign their troth they plighted.
    Golden was the chain she bade him wear;
  But the cup he offer'd her she slighted,
    Silver, wrought with cunning past compare.
        "That is not for me;
        All I ask of thee
    Is one little ringlet of thy hair."

  XIV.

  Dully boom'd the midnight hour unhallow'd,
    And then first her eyes began to shine;
  Eagerly with pallid lips she swallow'd
    Hasty draughts of purple-tinctured wine;
        But the wheaten bread,
        As in shuddering dread,
    Put she always by with loathing sign.

  XV.

  And she gave the youth the cup: he drain'd it,
    With impetuous haste he drain'd it dry;
  Love was in his fever'd heart, and pain'd it,
    Till it ached for joys she must deny.
        But the maiden's fears
        Stay'd him, till in tears
    On the bed he sank, with sobbing cry.

  XVI.

  And she leans above him--"Dear one, still thee!
    Ah, how sad am I to see thee so!
  But, alas! these limbs of mine would chill thee:
    Love, they mantle not with passion's glow;
        Thou wouldst be afraid,
        Didst thou find the maid
    Thou hast chosen, cold as ice or snow."

  XVII.

  Round her waist his eager arms he bended,
    Dashing from his eyes the blinding tear:
  "Wert thou even from the grave ascended,
    Come unto my heart, and warm thee here!"
        Sweet the long embrace--
        "Raise that pallid face;
    None but thou and are watching, dear!"

  XVIII.

  Was it love that brought the maiden thither,
    To the chamber of the stranger guest?
  Love's bright fire should kindle, and not wither;
    Love's sweet thrill should soothe, not torture, rest.
        His impassion'd mood
        Warms her torpid blood,
    Yet there beats no heart within her breast.

  XIX.

  Meanwhile goes the mother, softly creeping,
    Through the house, on needful cares intent,
  Hears a murmur, and, while all are sleeping,
    Wonders at the sounds, and what they meant.
        Who was whispering so?--
        Voices soft and low,
    In mysterious converse strangely blent.

  XX.

  Straightway by the door herself she stations,
    There to be assured what was amiss;
  And she hears love's fiery protestations,
    Words of ardour and endearing bliss:
        "Hark, the cock! 'Tis light!
        But to-morrow night
    Thou wilt come again?"--and kiss on kiss.

  XXI.

  Quick the latch she raises, and, with features
    Anger-flush'd, into the chamber hies.
  "Are there in my house such shameless creatures,
    Minions to the stranger's will?" she cries.
        By the dying light,
        Who is't meets her sight?
    God! 'tis her own daughter she espies!

  XXII.

  And the youth in terror sought to cover,
    With her own light veil, the maiden's head,
  Clasp'd her close; but, gliding from her lover,
    Back the vestment from her brow she spread,
        And her form upright,
        As with ghostly might,
    Long and slowly rises from the bed.

  XXIII.

  "Mother! mother! wherefore thus deprive me
    Of such joy as I this night have known?
  Wherefore from these warm embraces drive me?
    Was I waken'd up to meet thy frown?
        Did it not suffice
        That, in virgin guise,
    To an early grave you brought me down?

  XXIV.

  "Fearful is the weird that forced me hither,
    From the dark-heap'd chamber where I lay;
  Powerless are your drowsy anthems, neither
    Can your priests prevail, howe'er they pray.
        Salt nor lymph can cool
        Where the pulse is full;
    Love must still burn on, though wrapp'd in clay.

  XXV.

  "To this youth my early troth was plighted,
    Whilst yet Venus ruled within the land;
  Mother! and that vow ye falsely slighted,
    At your new and gloomy faith's command.
        But no God will hear,
        If a mother swear
    Pure from love to keep her daughter's hand.

  XXVI.

  "Nightly from my narrow chamber driven,
    Come I to fulfil my destined part,
  Him to seek for whom my troth was given,
    And to draw the life blood from his heart.
        He hath served my will;
        More I yet must kill,
    For another prey I now depart.

  XXVII.

  "Fair young man! thy thread of life is broken,
    Human skill can bring no aid to thee.
  There thou hast my chain--a ghastly token--
    And this lock of thine I take with me.
        Soon must thou decay,
        Soon wilt thou be gray,
    Dark although to-night thy tresses be.

  XXVIII.

  "Mother! hear, oh hear my last entreaty!
    Let the funeral pile arise once more;
  Open up my wretched tomb for pity,
    And in flames our souls to peace restore.
        When the ashes glow,
        When the fire-sparks flow,
    To the ancient gods aloft we soar."

       *       *       *       *       *

After this most powerful and original ballad, let us turn to something more genial. The three
following poems are exquisite specimens of the varied genius of our author; and we hardly know
whether to prefer the plaintive beauty of the first, or the light and sportive brilliancy of
the other twain.

FIRST LOVE.

  Oh, who will bring me back the day,
    So beautiful, so bright!
  Those days when love first bore my heart
    Aloft on pinions light?
  Oh, who will bring me but an hour
    Of that delightful time,
  And wake in me again the power
    That fired my golden prime?

  I nurse my wound in solitude,
    I sigh the livelong day,
  And mourn the joys, in wayward mood,
   That now are pass'd away.
  Oh, who will bring me back the days
    Of that delightful time,
  And wake in me again the blaze
    That fired my golden prime?

WHO'LL BUY A CUPID?

  Of all the wares so pretty
  That come into the city,
  There's none are so delicious,
  There's none are half so precious,
  As those which we are binging.
  O, listen to our singing!
  Young loves to sell! young loves to sell!
  My pretty loves who'll buy?

  First look you at the oldest,
  The wantonest, the boldest!
  So loosely goes he hopping,
  From tree and thicket dropping,
  Then flies aloft as sprightly--
  We dare but praise him lightly!
  The fickle rogue! Young loves to sell!
  My pretty loves who'll buy?

  Now see this little creature--
  How modest seems his feature!
  He nestles so demurely,
  You'd think him safer surely;
  And yet for all his shyness,
  There's danger in his slyness!

  Oh come and see this lovelet,
  This little turtle-dovelet!
  The maidens that are neatest,
  The tenderest and sweetest,
  Should buy it to amuse 'em,
  And nurse it in their bosom.
  The little pet! Young loves to sell!
  My pretty loves who'll buy?

  We need not bid you buy them,
  They're here, if you will try them.
  They like to change their cages;
  But for their proving sages
  No warrant will we utter--
  They all have wings to flutter.
  The pretty birds! Young loves to sell!
  Such beauties! Come and buy!

       *       *       *       *       *

  SECOND LIFE.

  After life's departing sigh,
  To the spots I loved most dearly,
  In the sunshine and the shadow,
  By the fountain welling clearly,
  Through the wood and o'er the meadow,
  Flit I like a butterfly.

  There a gentle pair I spy.
  Round the maiden's tresses flying,
  From her chaplet I discover
  All that I had lost in dying,
  Still with her and with her lover.
  Who so happy then as I?

  For she smiles with laughing eye;
  And his lips to hers he presses,
  Vows of passion interchanging,
  Stifling her with sweet caresses,
  O'er her budding beauties ranging;
  And around the twain I fly.

  And she sees me fluttering nigh;
  And beneath his ardour trembling,
  Starts she up--then off I hover.
  "Look there, dearest!" Thus dissembling,
  Speaks the maiden to her lover--
  "Come and catch that butterfly!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In the days of his boyhood, and of Monk Lewis, Sir Walter Scott translated the Erl King, and
since then it has been a kind of assay-piece for aspiring German students to thump and hammer
at will. We have heard it sung so often at the piano by soft-voiced maidens, and hirsute musicians,
before whose roaring the bull of Phalaris might be dumb, that we have been accustomed to associate
it with stiff white cravats, green tea, and a superabundance of lemonade. But to do full justice
to its unearthly fascination, one ought to hear it chanted by night in a lonely glade of the
Schwartzwald or Spessart forest, with the wind moaning as an accompaniment, and the ghostly
shadows of the branches flitting in the moonlight across the path.

THE ERL KING.

  Who rides so late through the grisly night?
  'Tis a father and child, and he grasps him tight;
  He wraps him close in his mantle's fold,
  And shelters the boy from the biting cold.

  "My son, why thus to my arm dost cling?"
  "Father, dost thou not see the Erlie-king?
  The king with his crown and long black train!"
  "My son, 'tis a streak of the misty rain! "

  "Come hither, thou darling! come, go with me!
  Fair games know I that I'll play with thee;
  Many bright flowers my kingdoms hold!
  My mother has many a robe of gold!"

  "O father, dear father and dost thou not hear
  What the Erlie-king whispers so low in mine ear?"
  "Calm thee, my boy, 'tis only the breeze
  Rustling the dry leaves beneath the trees!"

  "Wilt thou go, bonny boy! wilt thou go with me?
  My daughters shall wait on thee daintilie;
  My daughters around thee in dance shall sweep,
  And rock thee, and kiss thee, and sing thee to sleep!"

  "O father, dear father! and dost thou not mark
  Erlie-king's daughters move by in the dark?"
  "I see it, my child; but it is not they,
  'Tis the old willow nodding its head so grey!"

  "I love thee! thy beauty charms me quite;
  And if thou refusest, I'll take thee by might!"
  "O father, dear father! he's grasping me--
  My heart is as cold as cold can be!"

  The father rides swiftly--with terror he gasps--
  The sobbing child in his arms he clasps;
  He reaches the castle with spurring and dread;
  But, alack! in his arms the child lay dead!

       *       *       *       *       *

Who has not heard of Mignon?--sweet, delicate little Mignon?--the woman-child, in whose miniature,
rather than portrait, it is easy to trace the original of fairy Fenella? We would that we could
adequately translate the song, which in its native German is so exquisitely plaintive, that
few can listen to it without tears. This poem, it is almost needless to say, is anterior in
date to Byron's Bride of Abyos

  MIGNON.
                        O there with thee!
  O that I might, my own beloved one, flee!

  Know'st thou the house? On pillars rest its beams,
  Bright is its hall, in light one chamber gleams,
  And marble statues stand, and look on me--
  What have they done, thou hapless child, to thee?
  Know'st thou it well?
                        O there with thee!
  O that I might, my loved protector, flee!

  Know'st thou the track that o'er the mountain goes,
  Where the mule threads its way through mist and snows,
  Where dwelt in caves the dragon's ancient brood,
  Topples the crag, and o'er it roars the flood.
  Know'st thou it well?
                        O come with me!
  There lies our road--oh father, let us flee!

       *       *       *       *       *

In order duly to appreciate the next ballad, you must fancy yourself (if you cannot realize
it) stretched on the grass, by the margin of a mighty river of the south, rushing from or through
an Italian lake, whose opposite shore you cannot descry for the thick purple haze of heat that
hangs over its glassy surface. If you lie there for an hour or so, gazing into the depths of
the blue unfathomable sky, till the fanning of the warm wind and the murmur of the water combine
to throw you into a trance, you will be able to enjoy

THE FISHER.

  The water rush'd and bubbled by--
    An angler near it lay,
  And watch'd his quill, with tranquil eye,
    Upon the current play.
  And as he sits in wasteful dream,
    He sees the flood unclose,
  And from the middle of the stream
    A river-maiden rose.

  She sang to him with witching wile,
    "My brood why wilt thou snare,
  With human craft and human guile,
    To die in scorching air?
  Ah! didst thou know how happy we
    Who dwell in waters clear,
  Thou wouldst come down at once to me,
    And rest for ever here.

  "The sun and ladye-moon they lave
    Their tresses in the main,
  And breathing freshness from the wave,
    Come doubly bright again.
  The deep blue sky, so moist and clear,
    Hath it for thee no lure?
  Does thine own face not woo thee down
    Unto our waters pure?"

  The water rush'd and bubbled by--
    It lapp'd his naked feet;
  He thrill'd as though he felt the touch
    Of maiden kisses sweet.
  She spoke to him, she sang to him--
    Resistless was her strain--
  Half-drawn, he sank beneath the wave,
    And ne'er was seen again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our next extract smacks of the Troubadours, and would have better suited good old King René
of Provence than a Paladin of the days of Charlemagne. Goethe has neither the eye of Wouverman
nor Borgognone, and sketches but an indifferent battle-piece. Homer was a stark moss-trooper,
and so was Scott; but the Germans want the cry of "boot and saddle" consumedly. However, the
following is excellent in its way.

THE MINSTREL.

  "What sounds are those without, along
    The drawbridge sweetly stealing?
  Within our hall I'd have that song,
    That minstrel measure, pealing."
  Then forth the little foot-page hied;
  When he came back, the king he cried,
    "Bring in the aged minstrel!"

  "Good-even to you, lordlings all;
    Fair ladies all, good-even.
  Lo, star on star within this hall
    I see a radiant heaven.
  In hall so bright with noble light,
  'Tis not for thee to feast thy sight,
    Old man, look not around thee!"

  He closed his eyne, he struck his lyre
    In tones with passion laden,
  Till every gallant's eye shot fire,
    And down look'd every maiden.
  The king, enraptured with his strain,
  Held out to him a golden chain,
    In guerdon of his harping.

  "The golden chain give not to me,
    For noble's breast its glance is,
  Who meets and beats thy enemy
    Amid the shock of lances.
  Or give it to thy chancellere--
  Let him its golden burden bear,
    Among his other burdens.

  "I sing as sings the bird, whose note
    The leafy bough is heard on.
  The song that falters from my throat
    For me is ample guerdon.
  Yet I'd ask one thing, an I might,
  A draught of brave wine, sparkling bright
    Within a golden beaker!"

  The cup was brought. He drain'd its lees,
    "O draught that warms me cheerly!
  Blest is the house where gifts like these
    Are counted trifles merely.
  Lo, when you prosper, think on me,
  And thank your God as heartily
    As for this draught I thank you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

We intend to close the present Number with a very graceful, though simple ditty, which Goethe
may possibly have altered from the Morlachian, but which is at all events worthy of his genius.
Previously, however, in case any of the ladies should like something sentimental, we beg leave
to present them with as nice a little chansonette as ever was transcribed into an album.

THE VIOLET.

  A violet blossom'd on the lea,
    Half hidden from the eye,
  As fair a flower as you might see;
    When there came tripping by
  A shepherd maiden fair and young,
    Lightly, lightly o'er the lea;
  Care she knew not, and she sung
      Merrily!

  "O were I but the fairest flower
    That blossoms on the lea;
  If only for one little hour,
    That she might gather me--
  Clasp me in her bonny breast!"
    Thought the little flower.
  "O that in it I might rest
      But an hour!"

  Lack-a-day! Up came the lass,
    Heeded not the violet;
  Trod it down into the grass;
    Though it died, 'twas happy yet.
  "Trodden down although I lie,
    Yet my death is very sweet--
  For I cannot choose but die
      At her feet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOLEFUL LAY OF THE NOBLE WIFE OF ASAN AGA.

  What is yon so white beside the greenwood?
  Is it snow, or flight of cygnets resting?
  Were it snow, ere now it had been melted;
  Were it swans, ere now the flock had left us.
  Neither snow nor swans are resting yonder,
  'Tis the glittering tents of Asan Aga.
  Faint he lies from wounds in stormy battle;
  There his mother and his sisters seek him,
  But his wife hangs back for shame, and comes not.

  When the anguish of his hurts was over,
  To his faithful wife he sent this message--
  "Longer 'neath my roof thou shalt not tarry,
  Neither in my court nor in my household."

  When the lady heard this cruel sentence,
  'Reft of sense she stood, and rack'd with anguish:
  In the court she heard the horses stamping,
  And in fear that it was Asan coming,
  Fled towards the tower, to leap and perish.

  Then in terror ran her little daughters,
  Calling after her, and weeping sorely,
  "These are not the steeds of Father Asan;
  'Tis thy brother Pintorovich coming!"

  And the wife of Asan turn'd to meet him;
  Sobbing, threw her arms around her brother.
  "See the wrongs, O brother, of thy sister!
  These five babes I bore, and must I leave them?"

  Silently the brother from his girdle
  Draws the ready deed of separation,
  Wrapp'd within a crimson silken cover.
  She is free to seek her mother's dwelling--
  Free to join in wedlock with another.

  When the woful lady saw the writing,
  Kiss'd she both her boys upon the forehead,
  Kiss'd on both the cheeks her sobbing daughters;
  But she cannot tear herself for pity
  From the infant smiling in the cradle!

  Rudely did her brother tear her from it,
  Deftly lifted her upon a courser,
  And in haste, towards his father's dwelling,
  Spurr'd he onward with the woful lady.

  Short the space; seven days, but barely seven--
  Little space I ween--by many nobles
  Was the lady--still in weeds of mourning--
  Was the lady courted in espousal.

  Far the noblest was Imoski's cadi;
  And the dame in tears besought her brother--
  "I adjure thee, by the life thou bearest,
  Give me not a second time in marriage,
  That my heart may not be rent asunder
  If again I see my darling children!"

  Little reck'd the brother of her bidding,
  Fix'd to wed her to Imoski's cadi.
  But the gentle lady still entreats him--
  "Send at least a letter, O my brother!
  To Imoski's cadi, thus imploring--
  I, the youthful widow, greet thee fairly,
  And entreat thee, by this selfsame token,
  When thou comest hither with thy bridesmen,
  Bring a heavy veil, that I may shroud me
  As we pass along by Asan's dwelling,
  So I may not see my darling orphans."

  Scarcely had the cadi read the letter,
  When he call'd together all his bridesmen,
  Boune himself to bring the lady homewards,
  And he brought the veil as she entreated.

  Jocundly they reach'd the princely mansion,
  Jocundly they bore her thence in triumph;
  But when they drew near to Asan's dwelling,
  Then the children recognized their mother,
  And they cried, "Come back unto thy chamber--
  Share the meal this evening with thy children;"
  And she turn'd her to the lordly bridegroom--
  "Pray thee, let the bridesmen and their horses
  Halt a little by the once-loved dwelling,
  Till I give these presents to my children."

  And they halted by the once-loved dwelling,
  And she gave the weeping children presents,
  Gave each boy a cap with gold embroider'd,
  Gave each girl a long and costly garment,
  And with tears she left a tiny mantle
  For the helpless baby in the cradle.

  These things mark'd the father, Asan Aga,
  And in sorrow call'd he to his children--
  "Turn again to me, ye poor deserted;
  Hard as steel is now your mother's bosom;
  Shut so fast, it cannot throb with pity!"

  Thus he spoke; and when the lady heard him,
  Pale as death she dropp'd upon the pavement,
  And the life fled from her wretched bosom
  As she saw her children turning from her.

MY FIRST LOVE.

A SKETCH IN NEW YORK.

"Margaret, where are you?" cried a silver-toned voice from a passage outside the drawing-room
in which I had just seated myself. The next instant a lovely face appeared at the door, its
owner tripped into the room, made a comical curtsy, and ran up to her sister.

"It is really too bad, Margaret; pa' frets and bustles about, nearly runs over me upon the
stairs, and then goes down the street as if 'Change were on fire. Ma' yawns, and will not hear
of our going shopping, and grumbles about money--always money--that horrid money! Ah! dear
Margaret, our shopping excursion is at an end for to-day!"

Sister Margaret, to whom this lamentation was addressed, was reclining on the sofa, her left
hand supporting her head, her right holding the third volume of a novel. She looked up with
a languishing and die-away expression--

"Poor Staunton will be in despair," said her sister. "This is at least his tenth turn up and
down the Battery. Last night he was a perfect picture of misery. I could not have had the heart
to refuse to dance with him. How could you be so cruel, Margaret?"

"Alas!" replied Margaret with a deep sigh, "how could I help it? Mamma was behind me, and kept
pushing me with her elbow. Mamma is sometimes very ill-bred." And another sigh burst from the
overcharged heart of the sentimental fair one.

"Well," rejoined her sister, "I don't know why she so terribly dislikes poor Staunton; but
to say the truth, our gallopade lost nothing by his absence. He is as stiff as a Dutch doll
when he dances. Even our Louisianian backwoodsman here, acquits himself much more creditably."

And the malicious girl gave me such an arch look, that I could not be angry with the equivocal
sort of compliment paid to myself.

"That is very unkind, Arthurine," said Margaret, her checks glowing with anger at this attack
upon the graces of her admirer.

"Don't be angry, sister," cried Arthurine, running up to her, throwing her arms round her neck,
and kissing and soothing her till she began to smile. They formed a pretty group. Arthurine
especially, as she skipped up to her sister, scarce touching the carpet with her tiny feet,
looked like a fairy or a nymph. She was certainly a lovely creature, slender and flexible as
a reed, with a waist one could easily have spanned with one's ten fingers; feet and hands on
the very smallest scale, and of the most beautiful mould; features exquisitely regular; a complexion
of lilies and roses; a small graceful head, adorned with a profusion of golden hair; and then
large round clear blue eyes, full of mischief and fascination. She was, as the French say,
à croquer.

"Heigho!" sighed the sentimental Margaret. "To think of this vulgar, selfish man intruding
himself between me and such a noble creature as Staunton! It is really heart-breaking."

"Not quite so bad as that!" said Arthurine. "Moreland, as you know, has a good five hundred
thousand dollars; and Staunton has nothing, or at most a couple of thousand dollars a-year--a
mere feather in the balance against such a golden weight."

"Love despises gold," murmured Margaret.

"Nonsense!" replied her sister; "I would not even despise silver, if it were in sufficient
quantity. Only think of the balls and parties, the fêtes and pic-nics! Saratoga in the summer--perhaps
even London or Paris! The mere thought of it makes my mouth water."

"Talk not of such joys, to be bought at such a price!" cried Margaret, quoting probably from
some of her favourite novels.

"Well, don't make yourself unhappy now," said Arthurine. "Moreland will not be here till tea-time;
and there are six long hours to that. If we had only a few new novels to pass the time! I cannot
imagine why Cooper is so lazy. Only one book in a year! What if you were to begin to write,
sister? I have no doubt you would succeed as well as Mrs Mitchell. Bulwer is so fantastical;
and even Walter Scott is getting dull."

"Alas, Howard!" sighed Margaret, looking to me for sympathy with her sorrows.

"Patience, dear Margaret," said I. "If possible, I will help you to get rid of the old fellow.
At any rate, I will try."

Rat-tat-tat at the house door. Arthurine put up her finger to enjoin silence, and listened.
Another loud knock. "A visit!" exclaimed she with sparkling eyes. "Ha! ladies; I hear the rustle
of their gowns." And as she spoke the door opened, and the Misses Pearce came swimming into
the room, in all the splendour of violet-coloured silks, covered with feathers, lace, and embroideries,
and bringing with them an atmosphere of perfume.

The man who has the good fortune to see our New York belles in their morning or home attire,
must have a heart made of quartz or granite if he resists their attractions. Their graceful
forms, their intellectual and somewhat languishing expression of countenance, their bright
and beaming eyes, their slender figures, which make one inclined to seize and hold them lest
the wind should blow them away, their beautifully delicate hands and feet, compose a sum of
attraction perfectly irresistible. The Boston ladies are perhaps better informed, and their
features are usually more regular; but they have something Yankeeish about them, which I could
never fancy, and, moreover, they are dreadful blue-stockings. The fair Philadelphians are rounder,
more elastic, more Hebe-like, and unapproachable in the article of small-talk; but it is amongst
the beauties of New York that romance writers should seek for their Julias and Alices. I am
certain that if Cooper had made their acquaintance whilst writing his books, he would have
torn up his manuscripts, and painted his heroines after a less wooden fashion. He can only
have seen them on the Battery or in Broadway, where they are so buried and enveloped in finery
that it is impossible to guess what they are really like. The two young ladies who had just
entered the room, were shining examples of that system of over-dressing. They seemed to have
put on at one time the three or four dresses worn in the course of the day by a London or Paris
fashionable.

It was now all over with my tête-à-tête. I could only be de trop in the gossip of the four
ladies, and I accordingly took my leave. As I passed before the parlour door on my way out,
it was opened, and Mrs Bowsends beckoned me in. I entered, and found her husband also there.

"Are you going away already, my dear Howard?" said the lady.

"There are visitors up stairs."

"Ah, Howard!" said Mrs Bowsends.

"The workies[20] have carried the day," growled her husband.

[Footnote 20: The slang term applied to the mechanics and labourers, a numerous and (at elections
especially) a most important class in New York and Philadelphia.]

"That horrid Staunton!" interrupted his better half. "Only think now'--

"Our side lost--completely floored. But you've heard of it, I suppose, Mister Howard?"

I turned from one to the other in astonished perplexity, not knowing to which I ought to listen
first.

"I don't know how it is," whined the lady, "but that Mr Staunton becomes every day more odious
to me. Only think now, of his having the effrontery to persist in running after Margaret! Hardly
two thousand a-year "--

"Old Hickory is preparing to leave Hermitage already.[21] Bank shares have fallen half per
cent in consequence," snarled her husband.

[Footnote 21: The name of General Jackson's country-house and estate.]

They were ringing the changes on poor Staunton and the new president.

"He ought to remember the difference of our positions," said Mrs B., drawing herself up with
much dignity.

"Certainly, certainly!" said I.

"And the governor's election is also going desperate bad," said Mr Bowsends.

"And then Margaret, to think of her infatuation! Certainly she is a good, gentle creature;
but five hundred thousand dollars!" This was Mrs Bowsends.

"By no means to be despised," said I.

The five hundred thousand dollars touched a responsive chord in the heart of the papa.

"Five hundred thousand," repeated he. "Yes, certainly; but what's the use of that? All nonsense.
Those girls would ruin a Croesus."

"You need not talk, I'm sure," retorted mamma. "Think of all your bets and electioneering."

"You understand nothing about that," replied her husband angrily. "Interests of the country--congress--public
good--must be supported. Who would do it if we"--

"Did not bet," thought I.

"You are a friend of the family," said Mrs Bowsends, "and I hope you will"--

"Apropos," interrupted her loving husband. "How has your cotton crop turned out? You might
consign it to me. How many bales?"

"A hundred; and a few dozen hogsheads of tobacco."

"Some six thousand dollars per annum," muttered the papa musingly; "hm, hm."

"As to that," said I negligently, "I have sufficient capital in my hands to increase the one
hundred bales to two hundred another year."

"Two hundred! two hundred!" The man's eyes glistened approvingly. "That might do. Not so bad.
Well, Arthurine is a good girl. We'll see, my dear Mr Howard--we'll see. Yes, yes--come here
every evening--whenever you like. You know Arthurine is always glad to see you."

"And Mr and Mrs Bowsends?" asked I.

"Are most delighted," replied the couple, smiling graciously.

I bowed, agreeably surprised, and took my departure. I was nevertheless not over well pleased
with a part of Mr Bowsends' last speech. It looked rather too much as if my affectionate father-in-law
that was to be, wished to balance his lost bets with my cotton bales; and, as I thought of
it, my gorge rose at the selfishness of my species, and more especially at the stupid impudent
egotism of Bowsends and the thousands who resemble him. To all such, even their children are
nothing but so many bales of goods, to be bartered, bought, and sold. And this man belongs
to the haut-ton of New York! Five-and-twenty years ago he went about with a tailor's measure
in his pocket--now a leader on 'Change, and member of twenty committees and directorships.

But then Arthurine, with her seventeen summers and her lovely face, the most extravagant little
doll in the whole city, and that is not saying a little, but the most elegant, charming--a
perfect sylph! It was now about eleven months since I had first become acquainted with the
bewitching creature; and, from the very first day, I had been her vassal, her slave, bound
by chains as adamantine as those of Armida. She had just left the French boarding-school at
St John's. That, by the by, is one of the means by which our mushroom aristocracy pushes itself
upwards. A couple of pretty daughters, brought up at a fashionable school, are sure to attract
a swarm of young fops and danglers about them; and the glory of the daughters is reflected
upon the papa and mamma. And this little sorceress knew right well how to work her incantations.
Every heart was at her feet; but not one out of her twenty or more adorers could boast that
he had received a smile or a look more than his fellows. I was the only one who had perhaps
obtained a sort of passive preference. I was allowed to escort her in her rides, walks, and
drives; to be her regular partner when no other dancer offered, and suchlike enviable privileges.
She flirted and fluttered about me, and hung familiarly on my arm, as she tripped along Broadway
or the Battery by my side. In addition to all these little marks of preference, it fell to
my share of duty to supply her with the newest novels, to furnish her with English Keepsakes
and American Tokens and Souvenirs, and to provide the last fashionable songs and quadrilles.
All this had cost me no small sum; but I consoled myself with the reflection, that my presents
were made to the prettiest girl in New York, and that sooner or later she must reward my assiduities.
Twice had fortune smiled upon me; in one instance, when we were standing on the bridge at Niagara,
looking down on the foaming waters, and I was obliged to put my arm round her waist, for fear
she should become dizzy and fall in--in doing which, by the by, I very nearly fell in myself.
A similar thing occurred on a visit we made to the Trenton falls. That was all I had got for
my pains, however, during the eleven months that I had trifled away in New York--months that
had served to lighten my purse pretty considerably. It is the fashion in our southern states
to choose our wives from amongst the beauties of the north. I had been bitten by the mania,
and had come to New York upon this important business; but having been there nearly a year,
it was high time to make an end of matters, if I did not wish to be put on the shelf as stale
goods.

This last reflection occurred to me very strongly as I was walking from the Bowsends' house
towards Wall Street, when suddenly I caught sight of my fellow-sufferer Staunton. The Yankee's
dolorous countenance almost made me smile. Up he came, with the double object of informing
me that the weather was very fine, and of offering me a bite at his pigtail tobacco. I could
not help expressing my astonishment that so sensitive and delicate a creature as Margaret should
tolerate such a habit in the man of her choice.

"Pshaw!" replied the simpleton. "Moreland chews also."

"Yes, but he has got five hundred thousand dollars, and that sweetens the poison."

"Ah!" sighed Staunton.

"Keep up your courage, man; Bowsends is rich."

The Yankee shook his head.

"Two hundred thousand, they say; but to-morrow he may not have a farthing. You know our New
Yorkers. Nothing but bets, elections, shares, railways, banks. His expenses are enormous; and,
if he once got his daughters off his hands, he would perhaps fail next week."

"And be so much the richer next year," replied I.

"Do you think so?" said the Yankee, musingly.

"Of course it would be so. Mean time you can marry the languishing Margaret, and do like many
others of your fellow citizens; go out with a basket on your arm to the Greenwich market, and
whilst your delicate wife is enjoying her morning slumber, buy the potatoes and salted mackerel
for breakfast. In return for that, she will perhaps condescend to pour you out a cup of bohea.
Famous thing that bohea! capital antidote to the dyspepsia!"

"You are spiteful," said poor Staunton.

"And you foolish," I retorted. "To a young barrister like you, there are hundreds of houses open."

"And to you also."

"Certainly."

"And then I have this advantage--the girl likes me."

"I am liked by the papa and the mamma, and the girl too."

"Have you got five hundred thousand dollars?"

"No."

"Poor Howard!" cried Staunton, laughing.

"Go to the devil!" replied I, laughing also.

We had been chatting in this manner for nearly a quarter of an hour, when a coach drove out
of Greenwich Street, in which I saw a face that I thought I knew. One of the Philadelphia steamers
had just arrived. I stepped forward.

"Stop!" cried a well-known voice.

"Stop!" cried I, hastening to the coach door.

It was Richards, my school and college friend, and my neighbour, after the fashion of the southern
states; for he lived only about a hundred and seventy miles from me. I said good-by to poor
simple Staunton, got into the coach, and we rattled off through Broadway to the American hotel.

"For heaven's sake, George!" exclaimed my friend, as soon as we were installed in a room, "tell
me what you are doing here. Have you quite forgotten house, land, and friends? You have been
eleven months away."

"True," replied I; "making love--and not a step further advanced than the first."

"The report is true, then, that you have been harpooned by the Bowsends? Poor fellow! I am
sorry for you. Just tell me what you mean to do with the dressed-up doll when you get her?
A young lady who has not enough patience even to read her novels from beginning to end, and
who, before she was twelve years old, had Tom Moore and Byron, Don Juan perhaps excepted, by
heart. A damsel who has geography and the globes, astronomy and Cuvier, Raphael's cartoons
and Rossini's operas, at her finger-ends; but who, as true as I am alive, does not know whether
a mutton chop is cut off a pig or a cow--who would boil tea and cauliflowers in the same manner,
and has some vague idea that eggs are the principal ingredient in a gooseberry pie."

"I want her for my wife, not for my cook," retorted I, rather nettled.

"Who does not know," continued Richards, "whether dirty linen ought to be boiled or baked."

"But she sings like St Cecilia, plays divinely, and dances like a fairy."

"Yes, all that will do you a deal of good. I know the family; both father and mother are the
most contemptible people breathing."

"Stop there!" cried I; "they are not one iota better or worse than their neighbours."

"You are right."

"Well, then, leave them in peace. I have promised to drink tea there at six o'clock. If you
will come, I will take you with me."

"Know then already, man. I will go, on one condition; that you leave New York with me in three
days."

"If my marriage is not settled," replied I.

"D----d fool!" muttered Richards between his teeth.

Six o'clock struck as we entered the drawing-room of my future mother-in-law. The good lady
almost frightened me as I went in, by her very extraordinary appearance in a tremendous grey
gauze turban, fire-new, just arrived by the Henri Quatre packet-ship from Havre, and that gave
her exactly the look of one of our Mississippi night-owls. Richards seemed a little startled;
and Moreland, who was already there, could not take his eyes off this remarkable head-dress.
Miss Margaret was costumed in pale green silk, her hair flattened upon each side of her forehead
a la Marguerite, (see the Journal des Modes,) and looking like Jephtha's daughter, pale and
resigned, but rather more lackadaisical, with a sort of "though-absent-not-forgot" look about
her, inexpressibly sentimental and interesting. The contrast was certainly rather strong between
old Moreland, who sat there, red-faced, thickset, and clumsy, and the airy slender Staunton,
who, for fear of spoiling his figure, lived upon oysters and macaroon, and drank water with
a rose leaf in it.

I had brought the languishing beauty above described, Scott's Tales of my Grandfather, which
had just appeared.

"Ah! Walter Scott!" exclaimed she, in her pretty melting tones. Then, after a moment's pause,
"The vulgar man has not a word to say for himself;" said she to me, in a low tone.

"Wait a little," replied I; "he'll improve. It is no doubt his modest timidity that keeps his
lips closed."

Margaret gave me a furious look.

"Heartless mocker!" she exclaimed.

Meanwhile Richards had got into conversation with Bowsends. The unlucky dog, who did not know
that his host was a violent Adams-ite, and had lost a good five thousand dollars in bets and
subscriptions to influence the voices of the sovereign people at the recent election, had fallen
on the sore subject. He began by informing his host that Old Hickory would shortly leave the
Hermitage to assume his duties as president.

"The blood-thirsty backwoodsman, half horse, half alligator" interrupted Mr Bowsends.

"Costs you dear, his election," said Moreland laughing.

"Smokes out of a tobacco pipe like a vulgar German," ejaculated Mrs Bowsends.

"Not so very vulgar for that," said blundering Moreland; "tobacco has quite another taste out
of a pipe."

I gave him a tremendous dig in the back with my elbow.

"Do you smoke out of a tobacco pipe, Mr Moreland?" enquired Margaret in her flute-like tones.

Moreland stared; he had a vague idea that he had got himself into a scrape, but his straightforward
honesty prevented him from prevaricating, and he blurted out--"Sometimes, miss."

I thought the sensitive creature would have swooned away at this admission; and I had just
laid my arm over the back of her chair to support her, when Arthurine entered the room. She
gave a quick glance to me; it was too late to draw back my arm. She did not seem to notice
any thing, saluted the company gaily and easily, tripped up to Moreland, wished him good evening--asked
after his bets, his ships, his old dog Tom--chattered, in short, full ten minutes in a breath.
Before Moreland knew what she was about, she had taken one of his hands in both of hers. But
they were old acquaintances, and he might easily have been her grandfather. Meanwhile Margaret
had somewhat recovered from the shock.

"He smokes out of a pipe!" lisped she to Arthurine, in a tone of melancholy resignation.

"Old Hickory is very popular in Pennsylvania," said Richards, resuming the conversation that
had been interrupted, and perfectly unconscious, as Moreland would have said, of the shoals
he was sailing amongst. "A Bedford County farmer has just sent him a present of a cask of Monongahela."

"I envy him that present," cried Moreland. "A glass of genuine Monongahela is worth any money."

This second shock was far too violent to be resisted by Margaret's delicate nerves. She sank
back in her chair, half fainting, half hysterical. Her maids were called in, and with their
help she managed to leave the room.

"Have you brought her a book?" said Arthurine to me.

"Yes, one of Walter Scott's."

"Oh! then she will soon be well again," rejoined the affectionate sister, apparently by no
means alarmed.

Now that this nervous beauty was gone, the conversation became much more lively. Captain Moreland
was a jovial sailor, who had made ten voyages to China, fifteen to Constantinople, twenty to
St Petersburg, and innumerable ones to Liverpool and through his exertions had amassed the
large fortune which he was now enjoying. He was a merry-hearted man, with excellent sound sense
on all points except one--that one being the fair sex, with which he was about as well acquainted
as an alligator with a camera-obscure. The attentions paid to him by Arthurine seemed to please
the old bachelor uncommonly. There was a mixture of kindness, malice, and fascination in her
manner, which was really enchanting; even the matter-of-fact Richards could not take his eyes
off her.

"That is certainly a charming girl!" whispered he to me.

"Did not I tell you so?" said I. "Only observe with what sweetness she gives in to the old
man's humours and fancies!"

The hours passed like minutes. Supper was long over, and we rose to depart; when I shook hands
with Arthurine, she pressed mine gently. I was in the ninety-ninth heaven.

"Now, boys," cried worthy Moreland, as soon as we were in the streets, "it would really be
a pity to part so early on so joyous an evening. What do you say? Will you come to my house,
and knock the necks off half a dozen bottles?"

We agreed to this proposal; and, taking the old seaman between us, steered in the direction
of his cabin, as he called his magnificent and well-furnished house.

"What a delightful family those Bowsends are!" exclaimed Moreland, as soon as we were comfortably
seated beside a blazing fire, with the Lafitte and East India Madeira sparkling on the table
beside us. "And what charming girls! 'You're getting oldish,' says I to myself the other day,
'but you're still fresh and active, sound as a dolphin. Better get married.' Margaret pleased
me uncommonly, so I"--

"Yes, my dear Moreland," interrupted I, "but are you sure that you please her?"

"Pshaw! Five times a hundred thousand dollars! I tell you what, my lad, that's not to be met
with every day."

"Fifty years old," replied I.

