"They looked back, and there was nurse; she had come home about an hour before, and having
heard by some chance who had been at the cottage and been sent away, she had had a violent
quarrel with her daughter-in-law, and had come posting after her boy.

"But before Mr. Evans and Bernard knew the voice, there was a sound of carriage-wheels coming
from behind nurse; and so quick upon her was the carriage, that the horses' heads were in a
line with her, when Bernard and Mr. Evans turned to see who called them. The road just there
was not only steep but narrow.

"'That is nurse,' said Mr. Evans; 'but we must not stop just here, or the carriage will be
upon us; a little above there is room for the pony to stand aside, and the ground is there
more level for the feet.'

"So for the next minute or more the three parties all went on, Mr. Evans and Bernard going
up slowly towards the level place; the carriage coming rapidly down the road, being drawn by
horses used to steeper hills than that; and nurse behind at the top of her speed after the
carriage.

"Those in the carriage had known nurse as they passed, though she never once looked up to them;
and they knew also Bernard, and good Mr. Evans, and the long-tailed pony.

"When Mr. Evans had reached the bit of level ground, which might have been fifty feet, or more,
from the bottom of the valley, he stopped, and lifted Bernard off the pony to wait for nurse.

"The carriage, too, stopped at the brook, and there was a cry from it. 'Bernard, Bernard! It
is our dear, dear Bernard; open the door, open the door.' The door was burst open from within,
and out sprang Lucilla, flying forward to her brother. She was followed by Mr. and Mrs. Low,
as soon as the postboy could let down the steps.

"Bernard made one effort to rush to meet Lucilla, and then fell unconscious upon the ground.

"It is impossible to give an account of such a scene; the people who were present could tell
nothing about it themselves. Mr. and Mrs. Low and Lucilla could not understand why everyone
should be so surprised to see them; why Bernard should faint, why nurse should scream, and
why Mr. Evans should look so white.

"They had suffered much in a terrible storm, and been driven far out of their course, and been
obliged to lie for months in some far-off harbour for repairs, and had had a long and weary
voyage. But they had written letters, and supposed all this was known at home. The letters,
however, having been sent from a very out-of-the-way place, had never arrived, but this they
could not know.

"They were not surprised at anything, when they found that all their friends and neighbours
had thought them dead; and when Bernard, having had his temples bathed with water, opened his
eyes and recovered his colour, and began to shed tears, they were no longer frightened about
him. He was then lifted into the carriage, and held in the arms of his own father; nurse got
upon a trunk behind, Mr. Evans mounted the pony, and on they went, having now only down hill
to go to the village.

"'Let us pass quietly, if possible, through the village,' said Mr. Low, 'that we may get our
dear boy home as soon as possible;' but Mr. Low could not have everything as he wished. The
news was told at the very first house, which was the turn-pike, by Mr. Evans before the carriage,
and by nurse behind it; and the whole street was up in a moment. There was such joy, that men,
women, and children set up shouts; and four young men, who were enjoying the Whitsun holidays,
flew to the church and set the bells a-ringing before the carriage came in sight of the rectory.

"'Surely,' said Miss Grizzy to the dairy-maid, 'those lads are not gone off to the belfry,
and that plague of a boy, young Low, not found yet! I always said he was the most ill-conditioned
child that ever lived; and I know now he is only hiding out of malice to my poor Stephen.'

"Before she could finish her speech there was a sound of wheels and of horses, and the barking
of all the dogs about, and of doors opening; and the very next minute in came nurse with the
news into the dairy.

"Miss Grizzy was almost as ready to faint as Bernard had been--but not from pleasure; all her
unkindnesses to the child rose before her mind, and it was with the greatest difficulty that
she could put on even the appearance of being glad, whilst her worthy brother's heart was lifted
up with joy.

"When Stephen heard the news, as he came skulking in to tell his aunt he could find Bernard
nowhere, he walked himself off with Meekin, and did not return till night; but he need not
have done so, for Bernard never uttered a complaint against him or anybody else, though he
spoke continually of the very great kindness of Mr. Evans.

"The happiness of Lucilla that evening was complete. Bernard had hardly spoken to her before
she found how changed he was.

"Mr. Low was equally thankful; and Mrs. Low and nurse, though they did not understand the cause
of the change so clearly, yet felt that their darling was a new and improved creature. Mr.
Low, having it now in his power, did much to assist Mr. Evans in many ways; he felt all his
kindnesses; he helped to furnish his new rooms, and raised his salary as a curate.

"Miss Grizzy and Stephen left him almost immediately. Miss Grizzy went to keep the house of
a cross old uncle, and Stephen went to his parents. Mr. Evans took nurse for a housekeeper,
and whether she managed well or ill for him people do not agree; but this is certain, that
all the boys, especially the little ones, liked her so much that Mr. Evans soon found even
his larger house too small for his pupils.

"The last we heard of Mr. Low's family was that Bernard and Lucilla had furnished the grotto
so beautifully that every person in the neighbourhood came to see it; and that this brother
and sister were the delight of their parents, and the comforters of every poor old person or
orphan child in the parish."

The Birthday Feast

"Well," said Henry Fairchild, "it is just as I knew it would be; mine is the prettiest story,
and it is the longest, and that is something."

"No, no!" replied Emily; "if a story is stupid, its being long only makes it worse."

"But it is not stupid," says Henry, "as it comes in at the end so nicely, and in so much bustle.
I do love a story that ends in a great bustle."

"Well," said Emily, "my story finishes with as great a bustle as yours; and we must say that
Lucy has chosen two very nice books; so, Lucy, we thank you with all our hearts."

We have been so busy over the stories which Lucy brought, that we have taken no notice of the
note and parcel which came from Miss Darwell.

The note was to invite the Misses Fairchild and Master Fairchild to spend her birthday with
her. She asked them to come very early, and they were to come in their playing dresses, and
then they could bring others with them, because in the evening there would be company. She
offered to send a carriage for them; and she said that a note would come to invite their parents
to dinner. The little lady seemed to have thought of everything to make the day pleasant to them.

Mrs. Fairchild's children were not so rich as Miss Darwell, but they were as well brought up;
and Mrs. Colvin had heard this, and was glad to have the opportunity of seeing these children.

The parcel contained a few small presents, which Emily and Lucy thought a great deal of, and
put by amongst their treasures.

The day of Miss Darwell's birthday came, after what Henry called a very long time. Time seems
very long to children; they think a month as long as old people think a year. Henry talked
of a year or two past as of a time a long while ago.

Lucy and Emily looked out the very first thing that morning to see what weather it was; but
Henry did more, he got up and went out as soon as he heard anyone stir, and saw John cleaning
the horse, that he might be ready for Mr. and Mrs. Fairchild in the afternoon.

Soon after breakfast Mrs. Fairchild got the children ready, in their neatest morning dresses,
according to Miss Darwell's desire; meaning to bring their evening things when she came. But
they were hardly ready when a little pony-carriage, driven by a careful old man, came for them
from Miss Darwell; for this young lady never forgot the chance of doing a kindness.

They got into the little carriage, and were driven away. Henry sat by the servant in front,
and his sisters in the seat behind.

"My little lady," said the servant, "bade us be sure to bring you all safely, and very soon,
Master Fairchild." And then he went on to say what a dear, good young lady she was. "But she
bade me not tell what is to be done this evening; and you are not to ask anybody about it."

"Then I will not," said Henry; "though I want to know very much."

"To be sure you do, master,'" said the man; "but you will know by-and-by."

As they came near the park, they saw several fine carriages drawing towards the house.

"We are going to have a world of company," said the man; "but Miss Darwell has no visitors
in her own rooms but you and your sisters, Master Fairchild. My lady would have had more invited,
but Mrs. Colvin begged off; and so you and the young ladies are much favoured."

And then, giving his horse a fillip, away they went, bowling along over the park amid high
fern brakes, lofty trees, and many deer.

"I see something white through the trees," said Henry; "look, look, all along under the branches--see,
Lucy--see, Emily!"

"Do you, master?" answered the servant; "well, that is unaccountable; but look before you--what
do you see there?"

"Only trees," replied Henry, "and fern."

"Look again, master," said the man.

And Henry looked again till he had quite passed the place where the white things might be seen,
and indeed had forgotten them.

When they came to the house and drove to the door, a footman appeared, and was directed to
lead the little ladies and gentleman to Miss Darwell's rooms. The man went before them upstairs
and along the galleries to the door of that very room where they had been received by poor
Miss Augusta Noble.

As the footman, having opened the door, mentioned their names, they saw that everything within
the room was just the same as it had been. But there was a nice elderly lady, dressed in black
silk, who sat near the open window. She seemed, by the book in her hand, to have been reading
to a pretty fair girl, nearly of the age of Lucy, who sat on a stool at her feet.

These were Mrs. Colvin and Miss Darwell; and when they heard the names announced, they both
rose and came to meet their visitors. They both smiled so sweetly, and spoke so pleasantly,
that they took all fear at once from the children.

Mrs. Colvin herself took off the bonnets and tippets, and laid them aside; and Miss Darwell
said, "I am glad you came so soon; I told Everard to make haste."

As soon as they were ready, Miss Darwell began to talk of what they were to play at. Mrs. Colvin
gave them leave to go out for a time to play in the shade of what they called the cedar-grove,
a place near the house, but they all begged her to go with them.

"Not to play, my dears," she said; "I can't run."

"No, ma'am," said Lucy; "but you can have a book and sit down and read, as then you can see
us at play."

"Well, then," said Mrs. Colvin, smiling, "I will come." And away they all went to the cedar-grove.

As they were going Henry said:

"I am not to ask what is to be done this evening."

"No," replied Miss Darwell; "you ought not even to say, 'I am not to ask.'"

When they had got into the grove, and Mrs. Colvin was seated, they began to consult about what
they should play at. As Miss Darwell had not often any children to play with, she did not know
of half the games that others did.

"Let us play at Little Edwy and the Echo," said Lucy.

"But we have no echo here," said Miss Darwell.

"Then Henry shall be Edwy, and I will be the echo: and it is me you shall try to catch," replied
Lucy; "and you shall have to run for it. Henry, you must call, and I will answer, but they
shall not find me."

Lucy could run almost as quick as a greyhound, and she managed the game so well, that it took
up the whole time Mrs. Colvin allowed them to stay out of doors. It was getting hot, and they
went back into the house, and to their room.

"Now," said Mrs. Colvin, "you shall take your visitors into your play-room, Miss Darwell, and
leave the door open, my dear, that I may hear you and see you; I know you like to have me near
you."

"Yes, I do, dear Mrs. Colvin," said Miss Darwell; and she put her arms round the excellent
governess's neck and kissed her; and then, running and opening a door, led her visitors into
a large room which they had not seen before. It was furnished with shelves, on which many books
and toys were ranged in order--for it was one of Mrs. Colvin's wishes to make her pupil neat.

Mr. Fairchild's children quite cried out at the sight of these things; there were enough to
furnish a toy-shop, besides the books.

Miss Darwell said, "Which would you like?"

Henry fixed upon a large Noah's ark, and when it was reached down, he placed himself on the
floor, and made a procession of its inmates. He placed Noah himself in front, with his little
painted wife, and Shem, Ham, and Japhet, and their wives after him. Then came the beasts, and
then the birds, and then the insects and creeping things. Lucy chose a dissected map of England
and Wales, and another which formed a picture; and Emily, a box of bricks and doorways, and
pillars and chimneys, and other things for building houses.

Mrs. Colvin had told the children that they were to keep themselves quiet till dinner-time;
so Miss Darwell took her doll, and for a long time they were all very still with their toys:
they were to dine at half-past one, and Henry had not done with his ark when a female servant
came into the outer room to lay the cloth.

"It is time to put up now," said Mrs. Colvin, calling from the next room.

Lucy and Emily and Henry began immediately to put the things they had been playing with into
the cases, and Lucy was putting her dissected map into the place from which she had taken it,
when Miss Darwell said:

"Don't put it away, Miss Fairchild; it shall be tied up ready to go with the carriage."

Lucy did not understand her.

"Did you not choose it, Miss Lucy?" said Miss Darwell; "if you please to accept it, I will
send it in the carriage to-night with the bricks and the ark."

"Thank you, dear Miss Darwell," Lucy answered; "but we must not take anything, unless your
mamma and my mamma give leave."

At that instant Mrs. Colvin called Lucy.

"I called you, my dear, to tell you that you are quite right: you ought never to receive a
present without your mamma's leave, and ought never to desire to receive one. But I have no
doubt that Miss Darwell will remember to ask Mrs. Fairchild this evening if you may have them."

"I will," said Miss Darwell; "I hope I shall not forget it in the bustle."

"Shall I tell you of it?" said Henry.

Lucy and Emily got as red as scarlet when Henry said these words; but Mrs. Colvin whispered:

"Let him alone, he is very young, and he will get wiser as he gets older."

"I shall be obliged to you to remind me of it, Henry," said Miss Darwell; "and I will speak
the moment I see Mrs. Fairchild."

