Next morning, at breakfast in my hotel, formerly the palace of the Giustiniani, I met a young
Englishman, who had just come from Rome. He had the misfortune to be of the same name with
one on the "suspected list," and for this offence he was arrested on entering the Austrian
territory; and, though allowed to come on to Venice, his passport was taken from him, and his
journey to England, which he meant to make by way of Trieste and Vienna, stopped. The list
to which I have referred, which is kept at all the continental police offices, and which the
eye of policeman or sbirro only can see, has created a sort of inquisition for Europe. The
poor traveller has no means of knowing who has denounced him, or why; and wherever he goes,
he finds a vague suspicion surrounding him, which he can neither penetrate nor clear up, and
which exposes him to numberless and by no means petty annoyances. I accompanied my friend,
after breakfast, to the Prefecture, to transact my own passport matters, and was glad to find
that the authorities were now satisfied that he was not the same man who figured on the black
list. Still they had no apology, no reparation, to offer him: on the contrary, he was informed
that he must submit to a detention of two or three days more, till his passport should be forwarded
from the provincial office where it was lying. His misfortune was my advantage, for it gave
me an intelligent and obliging companion for the rest of the day; and we immediately set out
to visit together all the great objects in Venice. It would be preposterous to dwell on these,
for an hundred pens have already described them better; and my object is to advert to one great
lesson which this fallen city,--for the sea, which once was the bulwark and throne of Venice,
is now her prison,--teaches.

Betaking ourselves to a gondola, we passed down the Giudecca, Canal. We much admired--as who
would not?--the-noble palaces which on either hand rose so proudly from the bosom of the deep,
yet invested with an air of silent desolation, which made the heart sad, even while their beauty
delighted the eye. We disembarked at the stairs of the piazzetta of S. Mark, and repaired to
the Doge's palace,--the dwelling of a line of rulers haughtier than kings, and the throne of
a republic more oppressive than tyrannies. We walked through its truly majestic halls, glowing
with great paintings from Venetian history; and visited its senatorial chamber, and saw the
vacant places of its nobles, and the empty chair of its Doge. There was here no lack of materials
for moralizing, had time permitted. She that sat as a Queen upon the waves,--that said, "I
am of perfect beauty,"--that sent her fleets to the ends of the earth, and gathered to her
the riches and glory of all nations,--alas! how is she fallen! "The princes of the sea" have
"come down from their thrones, and" laid "away their robes, and put off their broidered garments."
"What city is like" Venice,--"like the destroyed in the midst of the sea!"

We passed out between the famous stone lions, which, even so late as the end of the last century,
no Venetian could look on but with terror. There they sat, with open jaws, displaying their
fearfully significant superscription, "Denunzie secrete,"--realizing the poet's idea of republics
guarded by dragons and lions. The use of these guardian lions the Venetians knew but too well.
Accusations dropped by spies and informers into their open mouths, were received in a chamber
below. Thus the bolt fell upon the unsuspicious citizen, but the hand from which it came remained
invisible. Crossing by the "bridge of sighs,"--the canal, Rio de Palazzo, which runs behind
the ducal palace,--we entered the state prisons of Venice. In the dim light I could discern
what seemed a labyrinth of long narrow passages; traversing which, we arrived at the dungeons.
I entered one of them: it was vaulted all round; and its only furniture, besides a ring and
chain, was a small platform of boards, about half a foot from the floor, which served as the
prisoner's bed. In the wall of the cell was a small aperture, by which the light might be made
to stream in upon the prisoner, when the jailor did not wish to enter, simply by placing the
lamp in an opposite niche in the passage. Here crime, despair, madness, and sometimes innocence,
have dwelt. Horrible secrets seemed to hover about its roof, and float in its air, and to be
ready to break upon me from every stone of the dungeon. I longed, yet trembled, to hear them.
But silent they are, and silent they will remain, till that day when "the sea shall give up
its dead." There are yet lower dungeons, deep beneath water-mark, but I was told that these
are now walled up.

We emerged again upon the marble piazzetta; and more welcome than ever was the bright light,
and the noble grace of the buildings. At its southern extremity, where the piazzetta looks
out upon the Adriatic, are two stately granite columns; the one surmounted by St Theodore,
and the other by the lion of St Mark. These are the two gods of Venice. They were to the Republic
what the two calves were to Israel,--their all-powerful protectors; and so devoutly did the
Venetians worship them, that even the god of the Seven Hills became jealous of them. "The Venetians
in general care little about God," says an old traveller, "less about the Pope, but a great
deal about St Mark." St Theodore sheltered the Republic in its infancy; but when it grew to
greatness, it deemed it unbecoming its dignity to have only a subordinate for its tutelar deity.
Accordingly, Venice sought and obtained a god of the first water. The Republic brought over
the body of St Mark, enshrined it in a magnificent church, and left its former patron no alternative
but to cross the Lagunes, or occupy a second place.

Before bidding adieu to the piazza of St Mark, around which there hovers so many historic memories,
and which every style of architecture, from the Greek and the Byzantine down to the Gotho-Italian,
has met to decorate, and which, we may add, in point of noble grace and chaste beauty is perhaps
not excelled in the world, we must be allowed to mention one object, which appeared to us strangely
out of keeping with the spot and its edifices. It is the tall Gothic tower that rises opposite
the Byzantine front of S. Mark's Cathedral. It attains a height of upwards of three hundred
feet, and is used for various purposes, which, however, it could serve equally well in some
other part of Venice. It strikes one the more, that it is the one deformity of the place. It
reminded me of the entrance of a clown at a royal levee, or the appearance of harlequin in
a tragedy.

Betaking ourselves again to a gondola, and gliding noiselessly along the grand canal,--

 "For silent rows the songless gondolier,"

we visited the Academia delle Belle Arte. It resembled a great and elaborately compiled work
on painting, and I could there read off the history of the rise and progress of the art in
Venice. The several galleries were arranged, like the successive chapters of a book, in chronological
order, beginning with the infancy of the art, and going on to its full noon, under the great
masters of the Lombard school,--Titian, Paul Veronese, Tintoretto, and others. The pictures
of the inner saloons were truly magnificent; but on these I do not dwell.

Let us sit down here, in the midst of the seas, and meditate a little on the great moral of Venice.

But now, after power, wealth, empire, have come corruption, slavery, ruin; and Venice,--

 "Her thirteen hundred years of freedom done,
 Sinks, like a sea-weed, into whence she rose."

But the course which Venice has run is that of all States which have yet appeared in the world.
History is but a roll of defunct empires, whose career has been alike; and Venice and Rome
are but the latest names on the list. Egypt, Chaldea, Tyre, Greece, Rome,--to all, as if by
an inevitable law, there came, after the day of civilization and empire, the night of barbarism
and slavery. This has been repeated again and again, till the world has come to accept of it
as its established course. We see States emerging from infancy and weakness slowly and laboriously,
becoming rich, enlightened, powerful; and the moment they seemed to have perfected their civilization,
and consolidated their power, they begin to fall. The past history of our race is but a history
of efforts, successful up to a certain point, but only to a certain point; for whenever that
point has been reached, all the fruits of past labour,--all the accumulations of legislators,
philosophers, and warriors,--have been swept away, and the human family have found that they
had to begin the same laborious process over again,--to toil upwards from the same gulph, to
be overtaken by the same disaster. History has been simply a series of ever-recurring cycles,
ending in barbarism. This is a discouraging aspect of human affairs, and throws a doubtful
shadow upon the future; but it is the aspect in which history exhibits them. The Etrurian tombs
speak of an era of civilization and power succeeded by barbarism. The mounds of Nineveh speak
of a similar revolution. The day of Greek glory sank at last in unbroken night. At the fall
of the Roman empire, barbarism overspread Europe; and now the cycle appears to have come round
to the nations of modern Europe. Since the middle of last century there has been a marked and
fearfully rapid decline in all the States of continental Europe. The entire region south of
the Alps, including the once powerful kingdoms of Italy and Spain, is sunk in slavery and barbarism.
France alone retains its civilization; but how long is it likely to retain it, with its strength
undermined by revolution, and its liberties completely prostrated? Niebuhr has given expression
in his works to his decided opinion, that the dark ages are returning. And are we not at this
moment witnessing an attempted repetition of the Gothic invasion of the fourth century, in
the barbarian north, which is pressing with ever-growing weight upon the feeble barrier of
the East?

                         "Nations melt
 From power's high pinnacle, when they have felt
 The sunshine for a while, and downward go
 Like lauwine loosen'd from the mountain's belt."

But why is this? It would almost seem, when we look at these examples and facts, as if there
were some malignant influence sporting with the world's progress,--some adverse power fighting
against man, baulking all his efforts at self-advancement, and compelling him, Sysiphus-like,
to roll the stone eternally. Has the Creator set limits to the life of kingdoms, as to that
of man? Certain it is, they have seldom survived their twelfth century. The most part have
died at or about their twelve hundred and sixtieth year. Is this the "three-score-and-ten"
of nations, beyond which they cannot pass?

The common explanation of the death of nations is, that power begets wealth, wealth luxury,
and luxury feebleness and ruin. But we are unable to accept this as a satisfactory account
of the matter. It appears a mere statement of the fact,--not a solution of it. It is evidently
the design of Providence that nations should live happily in the abundant enjoyment of all
good things; and that every human being should have all that is good for him, of what the earth
produces, and the labour of man can create. Then, why should affluence, and the other accessories
of power, have so uniformly a corrupting and dissolving effect upon society? This the common
theory leaves unexplained. There is no necessary connection betwixt the enjoyment of abundance
and the corruption of nations. The Creator surely has not ordained laws which must necessarily
result in the death of society.

The real solution, we think, it is not difficult to find. All religions, one excepted, which
have hitherto appeared in the world, have been unable to hold the balance between the intellect
and the conscience beyond a certain stage; and therefore, all kingdoms which have arisen hitherto
have been unable to exist beyond a certain term. So long as a nation is in its childhood, a
false religion affords room enough for the free play of its intellect. Its religion being regarded
as true and authoritative, the conscience of the nation is controlled by it. So long as conscience
is upheld, law has authority, individual and social virtue is maintained, and the nation goes
on acquiring power, amassing wealth, and increasing knowledge. But whenever it attains a certain
stage of enlightenment, and a certain power of independent thinking, it begins to canvass the
claims of that religion which formerly awed it. It discovers its falsehood, the national conscience
breaks loose, and an era of scepticism ensues. With the destruction of conscience and the rise
of scepticism, law loses its authority, individual honour and social virtue decline, and slavery
or anarchy complete the ruin of the state. This is the course which the nations of the world
have hitherto run. They have uniformly begun to decline, not when they attained a certain amount
of power or of wealth, but when they attained such an amount of intellectual development as
set free the national conscience from the restraints of religion, or what professed to be so.
No false religion can carry a nation beyond a certain point; because no such religion can stand
before a certain stage of light and inquiry, which is sure to be reached; and when that stage
is reached,--in other words, whenever the intellect dissolves the bonds of conscience,--the
basis of all authority and order is razed, and from that moment national decline begins. Hence,
in all nations an era of scepticism has been contemporaneous with an era of decay.

Let us take the ancient Romans as an example. In the youth of their nation their gods were
revered; and in the existence of a national conscience, a basis was found for law and virtue;
and while these lasted the empire flourished. But by and by the genius of its great thinkers
leavened the nation; an era of scepticism ensued; that scepticism inaugurated an age of feeble
laws and strong passions; and the declension which set in issued at length in downright barbarism.

Papal Rome has run the very same course. The feeble intellect of the European nations accepted
Romanism as a religion, just as the Romans before them had accepted of paganism. But the Reformation
introduced a period of growing enlightenment and independent thinking; and by the end of the
eighteenth century, Romanism had shared the fate which paganism had done before it. The masses
of Europe generally had lost faith in it as a religion; then came the atheism of the French
school; an era of feeble laws and strong passions again returned; the selfish and isolating
principle came into play; and at this moment the nations of continental Europe are rapidly
sinking into barbarism. Thus, the history of the race under the reign of the false religions
exhibits but alternating fits of superstition and scepticism, with their corresponding eras
of civilization and barbarism. And it necessarily must be so; because, these religions not
being compatible with the indefinite extension of man's knowledge, they do not secure the continued
action and authority of conscience; and without conscience, national progress, and even existence,
is impossible.

Is there, then, no immortality in reserve for nations? Must they continue to die? and must
the history of our race in all time coming be just what it has been in all time past,--a series
of rapidly alternating epochs of partial civilization and destructive barbarism? No. He who
is the former of society is the author of the Bible; and we may be sure that there is a beautiful
meetness and harmony between the laws of the one and the doctrine of the other. Christianity
alone can enable society to fulfil its terrestrial destiny, because it alone is true, and,
being true, it admits of the utmost advancement of the human understanding. In its case the
centrifugal force of the intellect can never overcome the centripetal power of the conscience.
It has nothing to fear from the advance of science. It keeps pace with the human mind, however
rapid its progress. Nay, more; the more the human mind is enlarged, the more apparent becomes
the truth of Christianity, and, by consequence, the greater becomes the authority of conscience.
Under the reign of Christianity, then, there is no point in the onward progress of society
where conscience dissolves, and leaves man and nations devoid of virtue; there is no point
where conviction compels man to become a sceptic, and scepticism pulls him down into barbarism.
As the atmosphere which surrounds our planet supplies the vital element alike to the full-grown
man and to the infant, so Christianity supplies the breath of life to society in all its stages,--in
its full-grown manhood, as well as in its immature infancy. There is more meaning than the
world has yet understood in the statement that the Gospel has brought "life and immortality
to light." Its Divine Founder introduced upon the stage that system which is the life of nations.
The world does not furnish an instance of a nation that has continued to be Christian, that
has perished. We believe the thing to be impossible. While great Rome has gone down, and Venice
sits in widowed glory on the Adriatic, the poor Waldenses are still a people. The world tried
but could not extinguish them. Christianity is synonymous with life: it gives immortality to
nations here, and to the individual hereafter. Hence Daniel, when unfolding the state of the
world in the last age, gives us to understand that, when once thoroughly Christianized, society
will no longer be overwhelmed by those periodic lapses into barbarism which in every former
age has set limits to the progress of States. Unlike every preceding era, immortality will
then be the chief characteristic of nations.

But must it not strike every one, in connection with this subject, that in proportion as Romanism
developes itself, the nations under its sway sink the deeper into barbarism? This fact Romanist
writers now see and bewail. What stronger condemnation of their system could they pronounce?
For surely if religion be of God, it must, like all else that comes from Him, be beneficent
in its influence. He who ordained the sun to irradiate the earth with his light, and fructify
it with his warmth, would not have given a religion that fetters the understanding and barbarises
the species. And yet, if Romanism be divine, He has done so; for the champions of that Church,
compelled by the irresistible logic of facts, now tacitly acknowledge that a decaying civilization
is following in the wake of Roman Catholicism in every part of the world. Listen, for instance,
to the following confession of M. Michel Chevalier, in the Journal des Debats:--

"I cannot shut my eyes to the facts that militate against the influence of the Catholic spirit,--facts
which have transpired more especially during the last third of a century, and which are still
in progress,--facts that are fitted to excite in every mind that sympathises with the Catholic
cause, the most lively apprehensions. On comparing the respective progress made since 1814
by non-Catholic Christian nations, with the advancement of power attained by Catholic nations,
one is struck with astonishment at the disproportion. England and the United States, which
are Protestant Powers, and Russia, a Greek Power, have assumed to an incalculable degree the
dominion of immense regions, destined to be densely peopled, and already teeming with a large
population. England has nearly conquered all those vast and populous regions known under the
generic name of India. In America she has diffused civilization to the extreme north, in the
deserts of Upper Canada. Through the toil of her children, she has taken possession of every
point and position of an island,--New Holland (Australia),--which is as large as a continent;
and she has been sending forth her fresh shoots over all the archipelagos with which the great
ocean is studded. The United States have swollen out to a prodigious extent, in wealth and
possessions, over the surface of their ancient domain. They have, moreover, enlarged on all
sides the limits of that domain, anciently confined to a narrow stripe along the shores of
the Atlantic. They now sit on the two oceans. San Francisco has become the pendant of New York,
and promises speedily to rival it in its destinies. They have proved their superiority over
the Catholic nations of the New World, and have subjected them to a dictatorship which admits
of no farther dispute. To the authority of these two Powers,--England and the United States,--after
an attempt made by the former on China, the two most renowned empires of the East,--empires
which represent nearly the numerical half of the human race,--China and Japan,--seem to be
on the point of yielding. Russia, again, appears to be assuming every day a position of growing
importance in Europe. During all this time, what way has been made by the Catholic nations?
The foremost of them all, the most compact, the most glorious,--France,--which seemed fifty
years ago to have mounted the throne of civilization, has seen, through a course of strange
disasters, her sceptre shivered and her power dissolved. Once and again has she risen to her
feet, with noble courage and indomitable energy; but every time, as all expected to see her
take a rapid flight upward, fate has sent her, as a curse from God, a revolution to paralyze
her efforts, and make her miserably fall back. Unquestionably, since 1789 the balance of power
between Catholic civilization and non-Catholic civilization has been reversed."

CHAPTER XVI.

PADUA.

     Doves of Venice--Re-cross the Lagunes--Padua--Wretchedness of
     Interior--Misery of its Inhabitants--Splendour of its Churches--The
     Shrine of St Antony--His Sermon to a Congregation of Fishes--A
     Restaurant in Padua--Reach the Po at Day-break--Enter Peter's
     Patrimony--Find the Apostles again become Fishermen and
     Tax-Gatherers--Arrest--Liberty.

