"Upon what principle," one of my Baronites writes, "do people collecting a number of short
stories for publication in one volume, select that which shall give the book its title?" Of
course I know, but shan't say; am not here to answer conundrums. After interval of chilling
silence, my Baronite continues, "Lady LINDSAY has brought together ten stories which A. & C.
BLACK publish in a comely volume. She calls it A Philosopher's Window, that being the title
of the first in the procession. I have looked through the Philosopher's Window, and don't see
much, except perhaps a reminiscence of A Christmas Carol. There are others, far better, notably
'Miss Dairsie's Diary.' This is a gem of simple narrative, set in charming Scottish scenery,
which Lady LINDSAY evidently knows and loves. There is much else that is good. 'The Story of
a Railway Journey,' and 'Poor Miss Brackenthorpe,' for example. All are set in a minor key,
but it is simple, natural music."

B. DE B.-W.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YOUNG GIRL'S COMPANION.

(BY MRS. PAYLEY.)

NO. IV.--THE CHOICE OF A HUSBAND.

Any woman, my dear young girls, can marry any man she likes, provided that she is careful about
two points. She must let him know that she would accept a proposal from him, but she must never
let him know that she has let him know. The encouragement must be very strong but very delicate.
To let him know that you would marry him is to appeal to his vanity, and this appeal never
fails; but to let him know that you have given him the information is to appeal to his pity,
and this appeal never succeeds. Besides, you awake his disgust. Half the art of the woman of
the world consists in doing disgusting things delicately. Be delicate, be indirect, avoid simplicity,
and there is hardly any limit to your choice of a husband.

I need say nothing about detrimental people. The conflict between a daughter and her parents
on this point--so popular in fiction--very rarely takes place. It is well understood. You may
fall in love with the detrimental person, and you may let him fall in love with you. But at
present we are talking about marriage. Never marry a man with the artistic temperament. By
the artistic temperament one means morbid tastes, uncertain temper and excessive vanity. It
may be witty at dinner; it must be snappish at breakfast. It never has any money. In its dress
it is dirty and picturesque, unless under the pressure of an occasion. It flirts well, but
marries badly. I have described, of course, rather a pronounced case of artistic temperament.
But it is hardly safe to marry any man who appreciates things artistic, because, as a rule,
he only does it in order that people may appreciate his appreciation; and after a time that
becomes wearisome.

Do not marry an imperial man. The young girl of seventeen believes in strength; by this she
means a large chin and a persistent neglect of herself. She adores that kind of thing, and
she will marry it if she is not warned. It is not good to fall in love with Restrained Force,
and afterwards find that you have married Apathy.

The man whom you marry must, of course, have an income; he should have a better social position
than you have any right to expect. You know all that--it is a commonplace. But also he must
be perfectly even. In everything he should remind you constantly of most other men. Everything
in him and about him should be uniform. Even his sins should be so monotonous that it is impossible
to call them romantic. Avoid the romantic. Shun supreme moments. Chocolate-creams are very
well, but as a daily food dry toast is better. Seek for the man who has the qualities of dry
toast--a hard exterior manner, and an interior temperament that is at once soft and insipid.
The man that I describe is amenable to flattery, even as dry toast is amenable to butter. You
can guide him. And, as he never varies, you can calculate upon him. Marry the dry-toast man.
He is easy to obtain. There are hundreds of him in Piccadilly. None of them wants to marry,
and all of them will. He gives no trouble. He will go to the Club when he wants to talk, and
to the theatre when he wants to be amused. He will come to you when he wants absolutely nothing;
and in you--if you are the well-bred English girl that I am supposing--he will assuredly find
it. And so you will both be contented.

Do not think that I am, for one moment, depreciating sentiment. I worship it; I am a sentimentalist
myself. But everything has its place, and sentiment of this kind belongs to young unmarried
life--to the period when you are engaged, or when you ought to be engaged. The young man whom
I have described--the crisp, perfect, insipid, dry-toast man--would only be bored by a wife
who wanted to be on sentimental terms with him. I remember a case in point. A young girl, whom
I knew intimately, married a man who was, as a husband, perfect. They lived happily enough
for three or four years; she had a couple of children, a beautiful house, everything that could
be desired. And then the trouble came. She had been reading trashy novels, I suppose; at any
rate, she fell in love with her own husband. She went in daily dread that he would find it
out. I argued with her, reasoned with her, entreated her to give up such ruinous folly. It
was of no use. She wrote him letters--three sheets, crossed and underlined. I warned her that
sooner or later he would read one of them. He did; and he never forgave her. That happy home
is all broken up now--simply because that woman could not remember that there is a time for
sentiment and a time for propriety, and that marriage is the time for propriety. The passions
are all very well until you are married; but the fashions will last you all your life.

I have no more to say on the choice of a husband. It is quite the simplest thing that a young
girl has to learn,--you must find a quite colourless person, and flatter him a little; his
vanity will do the rest. And when you are married to him, you will find him much easier to
tolerate than a man who has any strong characteristic. Do not get into the habit of thinking
marriage important; it is only important in so far as it affects externals; it need not touch
the interior of your life.

I have received several letters. ELLA has had poetry sent to her by her fiancé, and wishes
to know if this would justify her in breaking the engagement. I think not. She can never be
quite certain that it is the man's own make; and, besides, plenty of men are like that during
the engagement period, but never suffer from it afterwards. The other letters must be answered
privately.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE DEADLY CIGARETTE."

  Have you heard the Yankee threat to suppress the Cigarette?
    Ten dollars tax per thousand--as the French would say, par
          mille--
  Is the scheme proposed, forsooth, to protect the Yankee youth
    From poisons just discovered in his papier pur fil!

  Such things might well have been in staring emerald green,
    Or even in the paler tint that's christened "Eau-de-Nil,"
  But it simply makes one sick to imagine arsenic
    Is lurking in the spotless white of papier pur fil!

  Strange the smoking French survive! Surely none should be alive;
    Fair France should be one mighty morgue from Biarritz to Lille,
  If there's also phosphorus, bringing deadly loss for us,
    In Hygiene's new victim, luckless papier pur fil.

  Yet some Frenchmen live to tell they are feeling pretty well;
    From dozing Concierge at home to marching Garde Mobile,
  You might safely bet your boots that, with loud derisive hoots,
    They'd scout the thought of poison in their papier pur fil.

  Then how foolish to conclude that, because they hurt the dude,
    Smoking all day in the country, half the night as well en ville,
  After dinner Cigarettes, two or three, mean paying debts
    Of nature, or mean going mad, from papier pur fil!

       *       *       *       *       *

VANS DE LUXE.

SIR,--I am going to start a Caravan! It's all the go now, and nothing like it for fresh air
and seeing out-of-the-way country places. What's the good of Hamlet with all the hamlets left
out, eh? We shall sleep in bunks, and have six horses to pull us up any Bunker's Hill we may
come to. I intend doing the thing in style, like the Duke of NEWCASTLE and Dr. GORDON STABLES,
No gipsying for yours truly! I've been calculating how many people I shall want, and I don't
think I can get on comfortably without all the following (they'll be my following, d'ye see?):--

1. Head Driver; 2. Understudy for Driver; 3. Butler; 4. Footman; 5. Veterinary Surgeon; 6.
Carpenter (if wheel comes off, &c.); 7. Handy working Orator (to explain to people that we're
not a Political Van); 8. Electrician (in case horses go lame, and we have to use electricity);
9, 10, 11. Female Servants.

The Servants will have to occupy a separate van, of course. They'll be in the van and in the
rear at the same time! I'll let your readers know how we get on. At present we haven't even
got off.

Yours jauntily, THE HIGHWAY-MAN (pro team).