April 1893.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

No. 1.--THE QUEEN'S ANIMALS.
    BY G. B. BURGIN AND E. M. JESSOP.

PEOPLE I HAVE NEVER MET.
    BY SCOTT RANKIN.

THE RECLAMATION OF JOE HOLLENDS.
    BY ROBERT BARR.

MY FIRST BOOK.
    DAWN.
    BY H. RIDER HAGGARD.

TOLD BY THE COLONEL.
    XII.
    THE CAT'S REVENGE.
    BY W. L. ALDEN.

"LIONS IN THEIR DENS."
    J. L. TOOLE.
    BY RAYMOND BLATHWAYT.

NOVEL NOTES.
    BY JEROME K. JEROME.

THE STORY OF AN HOUR.
    BY HILDA NEWMAN.

RUM PUNCH AT PODBURY'S.
    BY EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

THE IDLERS CLUB.
    "AWKWARD PREDICAMENTS."

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 1.--THE QUEEN'S ANIMALS.

          -----

BY G. B. BURGIN AND E. M. JESSOP.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY E. M. JESSOP.

          -----

The February wind blows keenly, as we lean from the window of our railway carriage, and watch
dismantled house-boats, drawn up on the river bank just outside Windsor, being prepared for
the forthcoming season. Some Eton boys--it is evidently a holiday--stand looking on with lively
interest. Several people get out of the train, walk into the quaint old-fashioned street, and
disappear. We follow them, charter a hansom, and are driven along a picturesque road in the
direction of the late Prince Consort's Shaw Farm. This road is almost deserted, save for half-a-dozen
cavalrymen who come riding down it, their brilliant red uniforms lighting up the dull air through
which the sunlight vainly endeavours to struggle. Their horses are bespattered with mud; there
is mud everywhere--a thick, glutinous mud; but when we enter the precincts of the Shaw Farm
everything gives place to an ordered and dainty neatness which is thoroughly characteristic
of the Royal domains.

We are received by Mr. W. Tait, the Queen's Land Steward at Windsor, whose handsome stalwart
figure is so well known to all leading agriculturists, and conducted to a natty little office
decorated with water-colour drawings of prize cattle, and various other reminiscences of past
triumphs. Mr. Tait's drawing-room, in common with those of his confrères at Windsor, is embellished
by various signed portraits of Her Majesty and the Royal family.

From here, we cross the road and enter a stable where two beautiful old grey carriage horses
are being prepared by one of the farm hands for our inspection, to a continuous accompaniment
of sibilant ostler language. They have evidently been running wild in the park for some time;
each white coat is stained with mud, and burrs stick tenaciously to their long tails. An attendant
at the farm is rubbing them down, talking to them, and making them generally presentable. He
is evidently on good terms with his charges, for one playfully nibbles his broad back, whilst
the other tries to steal his red pocket-handkerchief. "Flora" and "Alma" were presented to
Her Majesty by the late King Victor Emanuel of Italy. They are about fourteen hands high, tremendously
powerful, and beautifully shaped. One of them has also been used to draw the Queen's chair
about the grounds; but they are both now regarded as honoured pensioners, and do no work at all.

The kindliness and affection with which Her Majesty speaks of favourite animals in her various
writings may well assure us that in the midst of state and family cares, manifold though they
be, her old pets, even after death, are not forgotten. Of this we have evidence later on.

The next shed to that of the old greys is occupied by a magnificent chestnut charger over seventeen
hands high, once the property of the late Emperor Frederic of Germany. In appearance, this
charger is as fresh and vigorous as a horse of five. It was given by the Emperor to Prince
Christian, who rode it for four years. The charger has a sprightly, though somewhat incongruous,
companion in the shape of "Ninette," a little white donkey which was purchased at Grasse by
Her Majesty, and presented to the Princess Victoria of Connaught, for whose use it is now being
broken in. Directly the donkey is taken out of the stable for educational purposes, the charger
becomes restless and unhappy, races round the paddock attached to his loose box in evident
distress, and refuses to be comforted until his beautiful little companion returns. Then he
playfully nibbles her back, joyfully flings up his heels, and careers wildly round the paddock,
neighing shrilly as he goes, his long tail floating in the breeze. What will happen when "Ninette"
leaves her companion it is difficult to say. At present she takes little notice of this exuberant
display of affection, beyond running beneath the charger's belly, and playfully trying to plant
her tiny heels in his lofty side. When they have been twice round the paddock, "Ninette" plodding
gamely on, a long way in the rear, the couple halt at the shed entrance, and look at us with
exuberant curiosity, the donkey's long ears shooting backwards and forwards with great rapidity.

After inspecting this somewhat incongruous couple, we are taken to another stable to see "Jenny,"
a white donkey, twenty-five years old. "Jenny" belongs to the Queen, and was bred at Virginia
Water. Her Majesty saw "Jenny" when she was a foal, had her brought to Windsor and trained,
and there the docile old animal has remained ever since. She is pure white in colour, with
large, light, expressive grey eyes. One peculiarity about her is an enormous flat back, soft
and almost as wide as a moderate-sized feather bed. A handsome chestnut foal is temporarily
quartered with her. This foal was bred from a mare belonging to the late Mr. John Brown, and
promises to grow into a very beautiful animal.

"Jenny," although rather reserved, affably condescends to partake of a biscuit, pensively twitching
her long ears after us as we depart along the road leading to the Royal dairy. As we leave
the trimly built and picturesque outbuildings there is a brave burst of sunshine; chaffinches
"chink-chink" in the trees around, producing a sharp, clear sound as if two pebbles were struck
against each other; rooks sail majestically overhead, their sentinels, posted in the trees
around, giving notice of our approach; and the pale petals of a rathe primrose gleam shyly
out from a sheltering hedge. The park is filled with Scotch cattle with beautiful heads and
matted, shaggy hides. In the next paddock a handsome Jersey cow thrusts her head over the intervening
rails and licks the shaggy frontlet of a small dun bull, who gives a gentle low of satisfaction,
and endeavours to follow us as we pass through the gate in the direction of the Queen's dairy.
At this section of the farm, in the buildings, we find "Tewfik," a very fine white Egyptian
donkey, with large black eyes and tremendous ears. He is one of those enormous asses which
are so greatly esteemed in the East for their powers of endurance. It is a curious fact that
a donkey of this kind will do as much work as a horse, last twice the time on a long march,
and never break down. "Tewfik" was purchased by Lord Wolseley in Cairo, and sent to England,
gay with magnificent Oriental trappings, and clipped all over in most extraordinary patterns,
resembling Greek architectural ornaments. These patterns are a source of great trouble to the
unsophisticated traveller in the East. He learns one side of his donkey by heart, and never
thinks of looking at the other; consequently, when he sees the hitherto unknown side of the
animal, he is inclined to think that some wight has been playing a practical joke, and substituted
a different beast for the one he has bestridden. "Tewfik" was much admired at the Jubilee Agricultural
Show in Windsor Great Park, and seems really a very amiable, well-mannered, aristocratic animal.
He is delighted to see us, and prefers sweet biscuits to plain. Indeed, it is with regret that
he watches us depart. His long mobile ears shoot out from the stable door as he endeavours
to follow us into the box of his neighbour, a dainty Shetland pony, some three feet six inches
high, which is usually known as "The Skewbald." This diminutive little lady welcomes us in
the most charming manner, and is as frolicsome as a kitten, romping about and playing all sorts
of tricks. Her mission in life, besides being everyone's pet, is to draw a small two-wheeled
cart for Her Majesty's grandchildren. The dainty, trim, little brown-and-white beauty possesses
enormous strength, and takes existence very philosophically. The first time she was put into
harness she acted as if she had been accustomed to it all her life, and never required the
slightest breaking in. There is another Shetland pony in one of the neighbouring paddocks,
but she is dark brown in colour, and, with her long-flowing mane and tail, looks like a miniature
carthorse. Like most of Her Majesty's animals, she is fond of society, and objects to be separated
from a large handsome grey donkey which was bought on one of the Continental journeys, and
now occupies the same paddock as the Shetland. In order to take the pony's portrait comfortably,
it was found necessary to invite the donkey to be present as a spectator.

The next pet to be inspected is an animal which most people would prefer to cultivate at a
distance, being none other than the enormous bison named "Jack," a magnificent specimen of
his race, who was obtained in exchange from the Zoological Society. The Canadian grew savage,
and had to be sent away. "Jack," in spite of his immense strength, is of a very peaceful, almost
timorous, disposition. Strictly speaking, he can hardly be called a pet, as the artist prudently
takes his likeness from behind a high wall. All friendly overtures to this last of his race
are vain. He remains pensively gazing at the opposite wall, a tear trickling down his broad
nose. Even the joyful bellow of his next-door neighbour, a half-grown Jersey bull, fails to
attract his attention, although the animal, as it recognises its keeper's step, climbs half
over the wall to be fondled.

Here we must not pass without examination some most beautiful little Jersey calves with silky
coats and great wondering eyes, which look as if the world was a charming mystery to them.

In the next stall to the Jersey bull stands an eccentric-looking little animal called "Sanger,"
a pony presented to Her Majesty by the well-known circus proprietor of that name. "Sanger"
is now nine months old. This strange little animal's breed is practically unknown, and his
appearance most eccentric; indeed, his legs show a tendency to stride to all points of the
compass. In colour he is cream; his eyes are grey, with pink lids; and he has white eyelashes
like an albino. His manners are not demonstrative, but coldly courteous.

Outside, in the park, is another pet, which was presented to Her Majesty by Lord Wolseley,
a peculiarly tall, deerlike-looking animal, a Zulu cow, bred from a bull which was originally
the property of Dabulamanzi, Cetewayo's brother. Cetewayo, curiously enough, when paying a
visit to the Shaw Farm, saw his brother's cattle, but did not appear to admire them much when
compared with the English. A well-bred English cow has four times the substance and breeding
of her Zulu sister.

Attention may also be called to some magnificent red Spanish cattle, whose noble heads and
gigantic horns are in themselves a study for the artist.

It should be mentioned here that when Her Majesty drives through the private road which leads
from the Castle past the kennels and dairy to the Shaw Farm, she likes to see the animals as
they come up to the railings, and is thus able to observe how former favourites bear the burden
of their years. The Queen names most of them herself, and never forgets an old friend.

Before going on to the kennels, by permission of the courteous manageress, we enter the beautiful
Royal dairy, which was built under the direction of His Royal Highness the late Prince Consort
in the twenty-first year of Her Majesty's reign. It is more like an apartment in fairyland
than a dairy. The walls and ceiling are composed of exquisitely shaded Minton tiles, the dairy
itself being about forty-five feet long and thirty wide. Long marble tables run right round
the sides and up the centre. On these tables are some 90 white earthenware pans, each of which
contains about seven quarts of milk. The butter is sent to Osborne every day, and averages
about twenty pounds weight in winter and forty in summer. A small supply for the Queen's own
breakfast table is also made in a special churn every morning.

Around the walls of the dairy are medallions of the Royal family, with the monogram V.R. between.
At each end of the dairy stands a beautiful fountain; there is also one at the side. All these
fountains came from the Exhibition of 1851; the design is a stork supporting a lily leaf into
which the water falls. The roof is supported by three pairs of arched pillars, and the windows
are double, the inner set being stained with designs of Tudor roses, hawthorn, primroses, white
marguerites, the rose, shamrock, thistle, and Scotch harebell. The outer windows are plain
glass. Beyond the glass is another window of wire gauze, so minute that in hot weather both
windows can be thrown open to admit the air, and yet all intrusive insects kept at a distance.
The Royal herd generally consists of about fifty cows when they are all in milk, principally
shorthorns and Jerseys, twenty-five of each. Last year there were fifty-four cows in milk,
but the number usually averages about fifty.

The recesses in the dairy walls are filled with lovely old Crown Derby and Worcester, together
with a few Oriental china plates and dishes. There is also a dish bearing the inscription,
"Chamberlain, Worcester, Manufacturer to His Royal Highness the Prince Regent." Close to the
dairy, stands an apartment devoted to churns and huge milk-cans. Each milk-can bears the following
inscription on the top:--

After exhausting the wonders of the Royal dairy, we pass out into the sunshine once more, but,
before leaving the shrubbery, notice two little monuments to the memory of long-deceased favourites,
the inscriptions on which are as follows:--

  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                 |
  |                              BOY,                               |
  |                    Died February 20, 1862,                      |
  |                        Aged five years.                         |
  | The favourite and faithful dog of the Queen and Prince Consort. |
  |                                                                 |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+

  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                 |
  |                             BOZ,                                |
  |                                                                 |
  | The favourite Scottish terrier of the Duchess of Kent, to whom  |
  |   he had been given in 1857 by the Queen and Prince Consort.    |
  |                                                                 |
  | On March 16, 1861, he was taken back, and from that time till   |
  |   he died, Oct. 26, 1864, remained the faithful dog of the      |
  |   Queen.                                                        |
  |                                                                 |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+

Surely, two touching and blameless little records!

Leaving these pets to their well-earned rest, we walk along the trimly-kept private road leading
to the Royal kennels. Here, when Her Majesty drives along, she can see the Spanish oxen and
other pets as they come up to the railings and peer curiously over, the long horns of the oxen
especially making a formidable show which is entirely belied by their peaceful disposition.

At the Royal kennels we are received by Mr. Hugh Brown, the manager, and his able assistant,
Mr. Hill, and shown into the apartment which is sometimes occupied by Her Majesty when visiting
the kennels. It is a quaint, medium-sized room, with old oak rafters and oak furniture, comfortable
chairs and foot-rests predominating. The curtains are a warm, deep red, the carpet to match,
and a couple of little oak tables occupy the centre of the room. But the unique feature about
this apartment is the number of dog portraits on the walls. There are dogs of every race, shape
and colour; dogs large and small; dogs lying down or standing up; dogs in oils; dogs in watercolours;
all of them labelled with the animal's name and the artist who painted it. One or two special
favourites have a lock of their hair let into the woodwork of the frame.

Outside, the tiled walk called the "Queen's Verandah" is covered over as a protection against
the weather. Her Majesty is accustomed to walk up and down here, and inspect the various occupants.
There are several dogs in every compartment. Each front yard measures ten feet by twelve; the
sleeping compartment is ten feet by ten. The wall in front stands nearly three feet high, and
has a rail on the top. Each yard is paved with red and blue tiles. In the sleeping compartments,
which are warmed by hot-water pipes, are benches raised about a foot from the ground. Facing
the "Collie Court," as it is called, is a large paddock which contains the bath--a curious
aperture in the ground, with sloping sides, so that a dog can run down, swim through the middle,
and walk up again on the other side. The sides of this bath are lined with little round stones.
There is also an umbrella-shaped structure of wood, under which the dogs can lie and sun themselves
after the bath. Near the road is a curious looking seat called "The Apron Piece," with a railing
in front. The Queen sometimes sits here and watches the gambols of the dogs when they are let
loose in the paddock.

There does not appear to be any hard and fast rule as to the housing of the dogs. It all depends
how they agree with each other. For instance, in one compartment will be found a collie, Spitz,
and dachshund; in the next, three Spitzes and a pug; then two Skye terriers, three pugs, one
dachshund; then two lovely white collies; then one solitary collie whose coat is out of order,
and who comes up with big, beseeching eyes, as if imploring us to put an end to her solitude.
The most attractive sight is, of course, the twelve or thirteen beautiful collies in one big
compartment. In all there are about fifty-five dogs, fifty-four of whom are in robust health,
the hospital containing one whippet. A beautiful little black Pomeranian "Zeela" inhabits a
huge cage in solitary state, and barks herself all over it at once. In the paddock outside
her cage are four beautiful black and tan collie pups, all eager for a romp.

Every dog in the Queen's kennels is exercised twice a day, morning and afternoon. The little
dogs generally go out first, and then give place to the big ones. Feeding time for the whole
establishment is four o'clock in the afternoon, but during very cold weather each animal is
given some dry biscuit every morning. The food is prepared in a kitchen reserved expressly
for this purpose, and consists of soaked biscuits, vegetables, meat, bullock's head, pluck,
and sometimes a little beef. Oatmeal is also added to this la podrida. The dogs are all in
hard condition, and look the picture of health. It is difficult to tear oneself away from the
collies, especially the two lovely white ones and the little buff-coated Pomeranians, with
tightly curling tails and small, sharp ears.

Her Majesty's love for dogs is so well known that it would be superfluous to dwell upon such
a topic. Wherever the Queen goes, she is accompanied by "Spot" (a fox-terrier), "Roy" (a black
and tan collie), and a lovely little brown Spitz called "Marco." Her favourite dogs are collies,
and she possesses a magnificent specimen in "Darnley," who is now being exhibited at the Agricultural
Hall dog show. "Darnley" is a beautiful black and tan in colour, with heavy white ruff. He
has a most curious habit, inherited from his father, of wrinkling up the skin of his nose and
showing all his teeth when pleased. Another animal away at the show is the little eight-months
old Skye terrier, "Rona." "Rona" is iron-grey in colour, has a very long body, and is extremely
intelligent and good natured.

On one of the artist's visits, "Beppo," a white Pomeranian, was brought out to have his portrait
taken. Dog-like, he at once pretended, when required to sit still, that it was an excessively
difficult operation causing great physical discomfort. Talking did not interest him, shaking
of keys and rolling of coppers had lost their charm; in fact, tail between legs, he voted existence
a mistake. Just then, up strolled dear little "Rona," and with bright intelligent eyes seemingly
enquired into the matter. In a few seconds everything was put right again. The sun once more
shone, and the portrait was taken. Surely, these little Skyes are the most lovable and intelligent
of all dogs. To any one who has read "Rab and his Friends," however, such a remark is unnecessary.

In appearance, little tiny "Gena" bears the palm from all the Pomeranians. She is one mass
of white, silky wool, and has the most charming manners. With one tiny paw uplifted she immediately
decides that artists are not as photographers, and may be trusted to take portraits without
the intervention of any snappy and nerve-shaking apparatus. "Gena" and "Glen," an old black
and tan collie, live in the house, the inseparable companions of genial Mrs. Hugh Brown.

The late Prince Consort's favourite dogs were dachshunds, a specimen of which invariably accompanied
him on his walks. The Prince of Wales favours the odd-looking bassets, of which he has many
fine specimens.

But the kennels, with all their joyousness, have sad little tragedies at times. For instance,
after the death of the late well-loved Emperor Frederick, two of his favourite Italian dogs,
charming creatures, something like Italian greyhounds, were sent to Her Majesty, but, unfortunately,
did not long survive their illustrious master. Many old pets have tombs in various parts of
the Royal domain. Among others which may be seen on the Slopes is that of "Sharp," a handsome
collie, who lies, as in life, guarding the Queen's glove.

It is related of "Sharp" that he was greatly attached to the late Mr. John Brown, whose room
he jealously guarded. If, by chance, strangers entered during Mr. Brown's absence they were
not allowed to leave until his return, and under no circumstances must anything be taken from
the room while "Sharp" was on guard. A housemaid, indeed, once picked up some little article
with the intention of putting it on the table, and the dog, although he knew her well, refused
to allow her to leave the room.

