From the Princess's fifth year Dr. Davys, afterwards Bishop of Peterborough, was her tutor.
When it became clear that the little girl would, if she lived, be Queen of England, a prelate
high in the Church was proposed to the Duchess of Kent as the successor of Dr. Davys in his
office. But the Duchess, with the mild firmness and conscientious fidelity which ruled her
conduct, declared that as she was perfectly satisfied with the tutor who had originally been
appointed (when the appointment was less calculated to offer temptations to personal ambition
and political intrigue), she did not see that any change was advisable. If a clergyman of higher
rank was necessary, there was room for the promotion of Dr. Davys. Accordingly he was named
Dean of Chester.

The Baroness Lehzen was another of the Queen's earliest guardians who remained at her post
throughout her Majesty's youth. Louise Lehzen, daughter of a Hanoverian clergyman, came to
England as governess to Princess Feodora Leiningen and remained as governess to Princess Victoria,
entering on her duties in 1824. In 1827 she was raised to the rank of a Hanoverian Baroness,
by George IV., at the request of Princess Sophia. From that time Baroness Lehzen acted also
as lady in attendance. On her death, so late as 1870, her old pupil recorded of her, in a passage
in the Queen's journal, which is given in the "Life of the Prince Consort," "My dearest, kindest
friend, old Lehzen, expired on the 9th quite gently and peaceably.... She knew me from six
months old, and from my fifth to my eighteenth year devoted all her care and energies to me
with the most wonderful abnegation of self, never even taking one day's holiday. I adored,
though I was greatly in awe of her. She really seemed to have no thought but for me.... She
was in her eighty-seventh year." This constancy and permanency in the family relations were
in themselves inestimable boons to the child, who thus grew up in an atmosphere of familiar
affection and unshaken trust, for the absence of which nothing in the world could have compensated.
Another lady of higher rank was of necessity appointed governess to the Queen in 1831, when
she became next heir to the throne. This lady, the Dowager Duchess of Northumberland, appears
also as the Queen's friend in after life.

The late Bishop Wilberforce was told by Dr. Davys an interesting anecdote of his former pupil.
"The Queen always had from my first knowing her a most striking regard to truth. I remember
when I had been teaching her one day, she was very impatient for the lesson to be over--once
or twice rather refractory. The Duchess of Kent came in, and asked how she had behaved. Lehzen
said, 'Oh, once she was rather troublesome.' The Princess touched her and said, 'No, Lehzen,
twice, don't you remember?' The Duchess of Kent, too, was a woman of great truth."

It had been judged meet that the future Queen should not be made aware of her coming greatness,
which, for that matter, continued doubtful in her earlier years. She was to grow up free from
the impending care and responsibility, happy and healthful in her unconscious girlhood--above
all, unassailed by the pernicious attempts to bespeak her favour, the crafty flattery, the
undermining insinuations which have proved the bane of the youth of so many sovereigns. In
order to preserve this reticence, unslumbering care and many precautions were absolutely necessary.
It is said the Princess was constantly under the eye either of the Duchess of Kent or the Baroness
Lehzen. The guard proved sufficient; yet it was difficult to evade the lively intelligence
of an observant sensible child.

