It would be a little interesting to know whether the continuation, The Romany Rye, which opens
as if there had been no break whatever, was written continuously or with a break. At any rate
its opening chapters contain the finish of the lamentable history of Belle Berners, which must
induce every reader of sensibility to trust that Borrow, in writing it, was only indulging
in his very considerable faculty of perverse romancing. The chief argument to the contrary
is, that surely no man, however imbued with romantic perversity, would have made himself cut
so poor a figure as Borrow here does without cause. The gipsies reappear to save the situation,
and a kind of minor Belle Berners drama is played out with Ursula, Jasper's sister. Then the
story takes another of its abrupt turns. Jasper, half in generosity it would appear, half in
waywardness, insists on Borrow purchasing a thorough-bred horse which is for sale, advances
the money, and despatches him across England to Horncastle Fair to sell it. The usual Le Sagelike
adventures occur, the oddest of them being the hero's residence for some considerable time
as clerk and storekeeper at a great roadside inn. At last he reaches Horncastle, and sells
the horse to advantage. Then the story closes as abruptly and mysteriously almost as that of
Lavengro, with a long and in parts, it must be confessed, rather dull conversation between
the hero, the Hungarian who has bought the horse, and the dealer who has acted as go-between.
This dealer, in honour of Borrow, of whom he has heard through the gipsies, executes the wasteful
and very meaningless ceremony of throwing two bottles of old rose champagne, at a guinea apiece,
through the window. Even this is too dramatic a finale for Borrow's unconquerable singularity,
and he adds a short dialogue between himself and a recruiting sergeant. And after this again
there comes an appendix containing an apologia for Lavengro, a great deal more polemic against
Romanism, some historical views of more originality than exactness, and a diatribe against
gentility, Scotchmen, Scott, and other black beasts of Borrow's. This appendix has received
from some professed admirers of the author a great deal more attention than it deserves. In
the first place, it was evidently written in a fit of personal pique; in the second, it is
chiefly argumentative, and Borrow had absolutely no argumentative faculty. To say that it contains
a great deal of quaint and piquant writing is only to say that its writer wrote it, and though
the description of "Charlie-over-the-waterism" probably does not apply to any being who ever
lived, except to a few school-girls of both sexes, it has a strong infusion of Borrow's satiric
gift. As for the diatribes against gentility, Borrow has only done very clumsily what Thackeray
had done long before without clumsiness. It can escape nobody who has read his books with a
seeing eye that he was himself exceedingly proud, not merely of being a gentleman in the ethical
sense, but of being one in the sense of station and extraction--as, by the way, the decriers
of British snobbishness usually are, so that no special blame attaches to Borrow for the inconsistency.
Only let it be understood, once for all, that to describe him as "the apostle of the ungenteel"
is either to speak in riddles or quite to misunderstand his real merits and abilities.

I believe that some of the small but fierce tribe of Borrovians are inclined to resent the
putting of the last of this remarkable series, Wild Wales, on a level with the other three.
With such I can by no means agree. Wild Wales has not, of course, the charm of unfamiliar scenery
and the freshness of youthful impression which distinguish The Bible in Spain; it does not
attempt anything like the novel-interest of Lavengro and The Romany Rye; and though, as has
been pointed out above, something of Borrow's secret and mysterious way of indicating places
survives, it is a pretty distinct itinerary over great part of the actual principality. I have
followed most of its tracks on foot myself, and nobody who wants a Welsh guide-book can take
a pleasanter one, though he might easily find one much less erratic. It may thus have, to superficial
observers, a positive and prosaic flavour as compared with the romantic character of the other
three. But this distinction is not real. The tones are a little subdued, as was likely to be
the case with an elderly gentleman of fifty, travelling with his wife and stepdaughter, and
not publishing the record of his travels till he was nearly ten years older. The localities
are traceable on the map and in Murray, instead of being the enchanted dingles and the half-mythical
woods of Lavengro. The personages of the former books return no more, though, with one of his
most excellent touches of art, the author has suggested the contrast of youth and age by a
single gipsy interview in one of the later chapters. Borrow, like all sensible men, was at
no time indifferent to good food and drink, especially good ale; but the trencher plays in
Wild Wales a part, the importance of which may perhaps have shocked some of our latter-day
delicates, to whom strong beer is a word of loathing, and who wonder how on earth our grandfathers
and fathers used to dispose of "black strap." A very different set of readers may be repelled
by the strong literary colour of the book, which is almost a Welsh anthology in parts. But
those few who can boast themselves to find the whole of a book, not merely its parts, and to
judge that whole when found, will be not least fond of Wild Wales. If they have, as every reader
of Borrow should have, the spirit of the roads upon them, and are never more happy than when
journeying on "Shanks his mare," they will, of course, have in addition a peculiar and personal
love for it. It is, despite the interludes of literary history, as full of Borrow's peculiar
conversational gift as any of its predecessors. Its thumbnail sketches, if somewhat more subdued
and less elaborate, are not less full of character. John Jones, the Dissenting weaver, who
served Borrow at once as a guide and a whetstone of Welsh in the neighbourhood of Llangollen;
the "kenfigenous" Welshwoman who first, but by no means last, exhibited the curious local jealousy
of a Welsh-speaking Englishman; the doctor and the Italian barometer-seller at Cerrig-y-Druidion;
the "best Pridydd of the world" in Anglesey, with his unlucky addiction to beer and flattery;
the waiter at Bala; the "ecclesiastical cat" (a cat worthy to rank with those of Southey and
Gautier); the characters of the walk across the hills from Machynlleth to the Devil's Bridge;
the scene at the public-house on the Glamorgan Border, where the above-mentioned jealousy comes
out so strongly; the mad Irishwoman, Johanna Colgan (a masterpiece by herself); and the Irish
girl, with her hardly inferior history of the faction-fights of Scotland Road (which Borrow,
by a mistake, has put in Manchester instead of in Liverpool); these make a list which I have
written down merely as they occurred to me, without opening the book, and without prejudice
to another list, nearly as long, which might be added. As to incident, one often, as before,
suspects him of romancing, and it stands to reason that his dialogue, written long after the
event, must be full of the "cocked-hat-and-cane" style of narrative. But his description, while
it has all the vividness, has also all the faithfulness and sobriety of the best landscape-painting.
This is never, or hardly ever, the case with Borrow, and it is so rare a merit, when it is
found in a man who does not shirk description where necessary, that it deserves to be counted
to him at no grudging rate.

But there is no doubt that the distinguishing feature of the book is its survey of Welsh poetical
literature. I have already confessed that I am not qualified to judge the accuracy of Borrow's
translations, and by no means disposed to over-value them. But any one who takes an interest
in literature at all, must, I think, feel that interest not a little excited by the curious
Old-Mortality-like peregrinations which the author of Wild Wales made to the birth-place, or
the burial-place as it might be, of bard after bard, and by the short but masterly accounts
which he gives of the objects of his search. Of none of the numerous subjects of his linguistic
rovings does Borrow seem to have been fonder, putting Romany aside, than of Welsh. He learnt
it in a peculiarly contraband manner originally, which, no doubt, endeared it to him; it was
little known to and often ridiculed by most Englishmen, which was another attraction; and it
was extremely unlikely to "pay" in any way, which was a third. Perhaps he was not such an adept
in it as he would have us believe--the respected Cymmrodorion Society or Professor Rhys must
settle that. But it needs no knowledge of Welsh whatever to perceive the genuine enthusiasm,
and the genuine range of his acquaintance with the language from the purely literary side.
When he tells us that Ab Gwilym was a greater poet than Ovid or Chaucer I feel considerable
doubts whether he was quite competent to understand Ovid and little or no doubt that he has
done wrong to Chaucer. But when, leaving these idle comparisons, he luxuriates in details about
Ab Gwilym himself, and his poems, and his lady loves, and so forth, I have no doubt about Borrow's
appreciation (casual prejudices always excepted) of literature. Nor is it easy to exaggerate
the charm which he has added to Welsh scenery by this constant identification of it with the
men, and the deeds, and the words of the past.

Little has been said hitherto of Borrow's more purely literary characteristics from the point
of view of formal criticism. They are sufficiently interesting. He unites with a general plainness
of speech and writing, not unworthy of Defoe or Cobbett, a very odd and complicated mannerism,
which, as he had the wisdom to make it the seasoning and not the main substance of his literary
fare, is never disgusting. The secret of this may be, no doubt, in part sought in his early
familiarity with a great many foreign languages, some of whose idioms he transplanted into
English: but this is by no means the whole of the receipt. Perhaps it is useless to examine
analytically that receipt's details, or rather (for the analysis may be said to be compulsory
on any one who calls himself a critic), useless to offer its results to the reader. One point
which can escape no one who reads with his eyes open is the frequent, yet not too abundant,
repetition of the same or very similar words--a point wherein much of the secret of persons
so dissimilar as Carlyle, Borrow, and Thackeray consists. This is a well-known fact--so well
known indeed that when a person who desires to acquire style hears of it, he often goes and
does likewise, with what result all reviewers know. The peculiarity of Borrow, as far as I
can mark it, is that, despite his strong mannerism, he never relies on it as too many others,
great and small, are wont to do. The character sketches, of which, as I have said, he is so
abundant a master, are always put in the plainest and simplest English. So are his flashes
of ethical reflection, which, though like all ethical reflections often one-sided, are of the
first order of insight. I really do not know that, in the mint-and-anise-and-cummin order of
criticism, I have more than one charge to make against Borrow. That is that he, like other
persons of his own and the immediately preceding time, is wont to make a most absurd misuse
of the word individual. With Borrow "individual" means simply "person": a piece of literary
gentility of which he, of all others, ought to have been ashamed.

But such criticism has but very little propriety in the case of a writer, whose attraction
is neither mainly nor in any very great degree one of pure form. His early critics compared
him to Le Sage, and the comparison is natural. But if it is natural, it is not extraordinarily
critical. Both men wrote of vagabonds, and to some extent of picaroons; both neglected the
conventionalities of their own language and literature; both had a singular knowledge of human
nature. But Le Sage is one of the most impersonal of all great writers, and Borrow is one of
the most personal. And it is undoubtedly in the revelation of his personality that great part
of his charm lies. It is, as has been fully acknowledged, a one-sided, wrong-headed, not always
quite right-hearted personality. But it is intensely English, possessing at the same time a
certain strain of romance which the other John Bulls of literature mostly lack, and which John
Bunyan, the king of them all, only reached within the limits, still more limited than Borrow's,
of purely religious, if not purely ecclesiastical, interests. A born grumbler; a person with
an intense appetite for the good things of this life; profoundly impressed with, and at the
same time sceptically critical of, the bad or good things of another life; apt, as he somewhere
says himself, "to hit people when he is not pleased"; illogical; constantly right in general,
despite his extremely roundabout ways of reaching his conclusion; sometimes absurd, and yet
full of humour; alternately prosaic and capable of the highest poetry; George Borrow, Cornishman
on the father's side and Huguenot on the mother's, managed to display in perfection most of
the characteristics of what once was, and let us hope has not quite ceased to be, the English type.

To conclude, Borrow has--what after all is the chief mark of a great writer--distinction. "Try
to be like somebody," said the unlucky critic-bookseller to Lamartine; and he has been gibbeted
for it, very justly, for the best part of a century. It must be admitted that "try not to be
like other people," though a much more fashionable, is likely to be quite as disastrous a recommendation.
But the great writers, whether they try to be like other people or try not to be like them
(and sometimes in the first case most of all), succeed only in being themselves, and that is
what Borrow does. His attraction is rather complex, and different parts of it may, and no doubt
do, apply with differing force to this and that reader. One may be fascinated by his pictures
of an unconventional and open-air life, the very possibilities of which are to a great extent
lost in our days, though patches of ground here and there in England (notably the tracts of
open ground between Cromer and Wells in Borrow's own county) still recall them. To others he
may be attractive for his sturdy patriotism, or his adventurous and wayward spirit, or his
glimpses of superstition and romance. The racy downrightness of his talk; the axioms, such
as that to the Welsh alewife, "The goodness of ale depends less upon who brews it than upon
what it is brewed of"; or the sarcastic touches as that of the dapper shopkeeper, who, regarding
the funeral of Byron, observed, "I, too, am frequently unhappy," may each and all have their
votaries. His literary devotion to literature would, perhaps, of itself attract few; for, as
has been hinted, it partook very much of the character of will-worship, and there are few people
who like any will-worship in letters except their own; but it adds to his general attraction,
no doubt, in the case of many. That neither it, nor any other of his claims, has yet forced
itself as it should on the general public is an undoubted fact; a fact not difficult to understand,
though rather difficult fully to explain, at least without some air of superior knowingness
and taste. Yet he has, as has been said, his devotees, and I think they are likely rather to
increase than to decrease. He wants editing, for his allusive fashion of writing probably makes
a great part of him nearly unintelligible to those who have not from their youth up devoted
themselves to the acquisition of useless knowledge. There ought to be a good life of him. If
professed philologers were not even more ready than most other specialists each to excommunicate
all the others except himself and his own particular Johnny Dods of Farthing's Acre, it would
be rather interesting to hear what some modern men of many languages have to say to Borrow's
linguistic achievements. But all these things are only desirable embellishments and assistances.
His real claims and his real attractions are comprised in four small volumes, the purchase
of which, under modern arrangements of booksellers, leaves some change out of a sovereign,
and which will about half fill the ordinary bag used for briefs and dynamite. It is not a large
literary baggage, and it does not attempt any very varied literary kinds. If not exactly a
novelist in any one of his books, Borrow is a romancer, in the true and not the ironic sense
of the word, in all of them. He has not been approached in merit by any romancer who has published
books in our days, except Charles Kingsley; and his work, if less varied in range and charm
than Kingsley's, has a much stronger and more concentrated flavour. Moreover, he is the one
English writer of our time, and perhaps of times still farther back, who seems never to have
tried to be anything but himself; who went his own way all his life long with complete indifference
to what the public or the publishers liked, as well as to what canons of literary form and
standards of literary perfection seemed to indicate as best worth aiming at. A most self-sufficient
person was Borrow, in the good and ancient sense, as well as, to some extent, in the sense
which is bad and modern. And what is more, he was not only a self-sufficient person, but is
very sufficient also to the tastes of all those who love good English and good literature.

APPENDIX A

DE QUINCEY

A short time after the publication of my essay on De Quincey I learnt, to my great concern,
that it had given offence to his daughter Florence, the widow of one of the heroes of the Indian
Mutiny, Colonel Baird Smith. Mrs. Baird Smith complained, in a letter to the newspapers, that
I had accused her father of untruthfulness, and requested the public to suspend their judgment
until the publication of certain new documents, in the form of letters, which had been discovered.
I might have replied, if my intent had been hostile, that little fault could be justly found
with a critic of the existing evidence if new evidence were required to confute him. But as
the very last intention that I had in writing the paper was to impute anything that can be
properly called untruthfulness to De Quincey, I thought it better to say so and to wait for
the further documents. In a subsequent private correspondence with Mrs. Baird Smith, I found
that what had offended her (her complaints being at first quite general) was certain remarks
on De Quincey's aristocratic acquaintances as appearing in the Autobiography and "not heard
of afterwards," certain comments on the Malay incident and others like it, some on the mystery
of her father's money affairs, and the passage on his general "impenetrability." The matter
is an instance of the difficulty of dealing with recent reputations, when the commentator gives
his name. Some really unkind things have been said of De Quincey; my intention was not to say
anything unkind at all, but simply to give an account of the thing "as it strikes" if not "a
contemporary" yet a well-willing junior. Take for instance the Malay incident. We know from
De Quincey himself that, within a few years, the truth of this famous story was questioned,
and that he was accused of having borrowed it from something of Hogg's. He disclaimed this,
no doubt truly. He protested that it was a faithfully recorded incident: but though the events
were then fresh, he did not produce a single witness to prove that any Malay had been near
Grasmere at the time. And so elsewhere. As I have remarked about Borrow, there are some people
who have a knack of recounting truth so that it looks as if it never had been true. I have
been informed by Mr. James Runciman that he himself once made considerable inquiries on the
track of Lavengro, and found that that remarkable book is, to some extent at any rate, apparently
historic. On the other hand I have been told by another Borrovian who knew Borrow (which I
never did) that the Life of Joseph Sell never existed. In such cases a critic can only go on
internal evidence, and I am sure that the vast majority of critics would decide against most
of De Quincey's stories on that. I do not suppose that he ever, like Lamb, deliberately begat
"lie-children": but opium-eating is not absolutely repugnant to delusion, and literary mystification
was not so much the exception as the rule in his earlier time. As to his "impenetrability,"
I can only throw myself on the readers of such memoirs and reminiscences as have been published
respecting him. The almost unanimous verdict of his acquaintances and critics has been that
he was in a way mysterious, and though no doubt this mystery did not extend to his children,
it seems to have extended to almost every one else. I gather from Mrs. Baird Smith's own remarks
that from first to last all who were concerned with him treated him as a person unfit to be
trusted with money, and while his habit of solitary lodging is doubtless capable of a certain
amount of explanation, it cannot be described as other than curious. I had never intended to
throw doubt on his actual acquaintance with Lord Westport or Lady Carbery. These persons or
their representatives were alive when the Autobiography was published, and would no doubt have
protested if De Quincey had not spoken truly. But I must still hold that their total disappearance
from his subsequent life is peculiar. Some other points, such as his mentioning Wilson as his
"only intimate male friend" are textually cited from himself, and if I seem to have spoken
harshly of his early treatment by his family I may surely shelter myself behind the touching
incident, recorded in the biographies, of his crying on his deathbed, "My dear mother! then
I was greatly mistaken." If this does not prove that he himself had entertained on the subject
ideas which, whether false or true, were unfavourable, then it is purely meaningless.

In conclusion, I have only to repeat my regret that I should, by a perhaps thoughtless forgetfulness
of the feelings of survivors, have hurt those feelings. But I think I am entitled to say that
the view of De Quincey's character and cast of thought given in the text, while imputing nothing
discreditable in intention, is founded on the whole published work and all the biographical
evidence then accessible to me, and will not be materially altered by anything since published
or likely to be so in future. The world, though often not quite right, is never quite wrong
about a man, and it would be almost impossible that it should be wrong in face of such autobiographic
details as are furnished, not merely by the Autobiography itself, but by a mass of notes spread
over seven years in composition and full of personal idiosyncrasy. I not only acquit De Quincey
of all serious moral delinquency,--I declare distinctly that no imputation of it was ever intended.
It is quite possible that some of his biographers and of those who knew him may have exaggerated
his peculiarities, less possible I think that those peculiarities should not have existed.
But the matter, except for my own regret at having offended De Quincey's daughter, will have
been a happy one if it results in a systematic publication of his letters, which, from the
specimens already printed, must be very characteristic and very interesting. In almost all
cases a considerable collection of letters is the most effective, and especially the most truth-telling,
of all possible "lives." No letters indeed are likely to increase the literary repute of the
author of the Confessions and of the Cæsars; but they may very well clear up and fill in the
hitherto rather fragmentary and conjectural notion of his character, and they may, on the other
hand, confirm that idea of both which, however false it may seem to his children, and others
who were united to him by ties of affection, has commended itself to careful students of his
published works.

APPENDIX B

LOCKHART

The most singular instance of the floating dislike to Lockhart's memory, to which I have more
than once referred in the text, occurred subsequently to the original publication of my essay,
and not very long ago, when my friend Mr. Louis Stevenson thought proper to call Lockhart a
"cad." This extraordinary obiter dictum provoked, as might have been expected, not a few protests,
but I do not remember that Mr. Stevenson rejoined, and I have not myself had any opportunity
of learning from him what he meant. I can only suppose that the ebullition must have been prompted
by one of two things, the old scandal about the duel in which John Scott the editor of the
London was shot, and a newer one, which was first bruited abroad, I think, in Mr. Sidney Colvin's
book on Keats. Both of these, and especially the first, may be worth a little discussion.

I do not think that any one who examines Mr. Colvin's allegation, will think it very damaging.
It comes to this, that Keats's friend Bailey met Lockhart in the house of Bishop Greig at Stirling,
told him some particulars about Keats, extracted from him a promise that he would not use them
against the poet, and afterwards thought he recognised some of the details in the Blackwood
attack which ranks next to the famous Quarterly article. Here it is to be observed, first,
that there is no sufficient evidence that Lockhart wrote this Blackwood article; secondly,
that it is by no means certain that if he did, he was making, or considered himself to be making,
any improper use of what he had heard; thirdly, that for the actual interview and its tenor
we have only a vague ex parte statement made long after date.

The other matter is much more important, and as the duel itself has been mentioned more than
once or twice in the foregoing pages, and as it is to this day being frequently referred to
in what seems to me an entirely erroneous manner, with occasional implications that Lockhart
showed the white feather, it may be well to give a sketch of what actually happened, as far
as can be made out from the most trustworthy accounts, published and unpublished.

