"Try the gun," said one of the Indians, and Frank, mortified by his failure with the spear,
was not slow to respond.  Carefully aiming for the curl on the forehead, between the eyes,
he pulled the trigger, and as the report rang out the great deer suddenly turned over dead
in the water.  A cheer rang out, proclaiming the first one thus obtained.  Alec and his men
struck out for one of great size that they supposed was the leader of the herd.  He not only
had a most magnificent set of antlers, but by the way in which he swam in the water he seemed
to possess not only magnificent lungs, but to be still trying to have some control over the
frightened deer.  When he saw that he was himself being attacked he immediately, as became
the leader of the herd, turned to meet the advancing canoe and give battle.

It was unfortunate for Alec that his Indian canoemen, while clever hunters, were inexperienced
in the tactics of our old, wily reindeer. It would have been wise on their part if, when they
saw him swing round and boldly come on to the attack, they had quickly used their guns; but
that is considered the last resort in this kind of sport--the great ambition is to kill the
deer with their spears.

So here Alec and his comrades wished to carry off honours in this contest; and so, when the
great fellow came within reaching distance, they tried, with a couple of spears, to kill him;
but a clever, rapid twist of his horns seemed to parry their spear thrusts, and before they
knew how it happened the side of the canoe was crushed in as an eggshell, and they were all
struggling in the water.

It was well for them that they were good swimmers; and so they struck out for the other canoes,
the occupants of which, seeing the disaster, at once began paddling to their rescue.  The greatest
danger to be feared was that the infuriated deer would take after one or more of them, in which
case they would have a poor chance indeed, as a man swimming is no match for a deer in the
water.  With horns and sharp, chisel-like hoofs, he is able to make a gallant fight, as we
have already seen in the case of the deer and wolves.

However, it was soon seen, in this instance, that no danger was to be feared.  The deer kept
venting his displeasure on the canoe, so that he paid not the slightest notice to those who
had so suddenly sprung out of it on the opposite side from him, and were rapidly swimming away.
The poor canoe, however, had to be the butt of his ire--as well as of his horns--and soon all
there was left of it were a few pieces of splinters floating on the water.  The guns, axes,
spears, and other heavy articles were at the bottom of the lake.

The swimmers were helped into the other canoes, and the sport was resumed.  When several deer
had been killed they were fastened by long deerskin thongs, like lariats, to the stern of a
couple of canoes and towed through the water to the shore.  Alec and his wet comrades went
with them, and at a great fire built up on the beach soon dried themselves, and were none the
worse for their involuntary swim.

For a time the great deer that had come off so victorious was left swimming around in his glory,
none seeming to care to get into close quarters with him.  Sam, however, was of a different
mind, and was eager for a round with him.  Of course it would not have been difficult to shoot
him, but, as has been stated, the Indians think there is no honour or skill in shooting a deer
in the water, where he cannot swim as fast as they can paddle their canoes.  So they were just
holding back in each canoe and waiting for some one else to tackle the big fellow.

When Sam told the Indians in his canoe that he wished they would attack him they admired his
courage and grit, and one of them, with a bit of a twinkle in his eye, asked:

"You able to swim as well as Alec?"

"Yes, indeed," he replied; "but there will be no need for my trying."

"How you want to kill him?" asked another Indian.

Sam's quick rejoinder was: "I want to spear him, of course."

His enthusiasm was contagious, and the Indians said:

"All right; we will try."

So word was signalled to the other boats that the one in which Sam was would try the gallant
old fellow.  The Indians in the other canoes heard this with pleasure, and ceased for a time
from their pursuits to see the struggle.

The Indians in charge of Sam's canoe wisely explained to him how, if they were possibly able
to get him alongside of the deer, to try to spear him across the spinal column as near the
head as possible.  They also took the precaution to have a couple of guns and axes handy where,
in case of emergency, they could be instantly utilised.

When the great reindeer saw them coming down so boldly toward him he at once accepted the situation,
and leaving a number of deer that with him had been keeping together for some time he gallantly
turned to face them.

When within twenty or thirty yards, as decided upon by the Indian, they suddenly veered to
the right, and kept paddling in eccentric circles around him, keeping him as nearly as possible
about the same distance in the centre.  That he could not reach the canoe and annihilate it
as easily as he did the other one seemed to very much irritate him, and for a time he was furious
with rage.  Yet in spite of his fury they quietly, yet warily, watched him, and kept up their
circular movements about him. After a time, seeing it to be an utter impossibility to catch
them, he turned and endeavoured to swim to the shore.

Now the attacked became the aggressors, and so, rapidly, the canoe followed in his wake.  Several
times they tried to draw up alongside to spear him, but a sudden turn of that well-antlered
head was enough to cause them to draw back in a hurry.  But something must be done, or he would
speedily be at the land.  So another canoe was signalled to make a feint to attack him from
the other side.  The one in which Frank was paddling with his Indians soon came up, and when
told what was desired of them quickly responded.

The deer, thus worried by the two, had hardly a fair chance, but he gallantly kept up the unequal
struggle for quite a time.  Sam's canoemen at length saw an unguarded place and so dashed in
alongside the big fellow, and at the right minute the Indian steering called out to Sam:

"Now give it to him in the neck, close up to his head."

Sam, however, was not quick enough, and therefore his spear, which he plunged with all the
force he was capable of into the deer, while it did not instantly kill, so cut down the side
of the neck as to sever some large veins.  Unfortunately for Sam, he could not withdraw the
spear from the deer, and he was in no humour to lose it, so he hung on to it; but before he
knew where he was a great bound of the deer jerked him out of the canoe.  However, he fell
fairly and squarely on the back of the great deer, and he was not such a fool as not to avail
himself of such an opportunity for a ride.  So speedily righting himself on this odd steed,
amid the laughter of Frank and the Indians, he was evidently in for a good time.

It might have fared badly with him if the deer had been able to have used his horns freely,
or have moved with his usual speed in the water; but the additional weight on his back so sank
him down that he was powerless to do harm.  All he could do, after a few desperate efforts
to get rid of his burden, was to start for the shore, and so he speedily continued swimming
toward it as though this was his usual employment.

Sam hung on without much trouble, but as they neared the shore he began to wonder what might
happen next.  But when his antlered steed reached the shallow waters his strength gave way
from the excessive loss of blood from the severed veins in his neck, and soon he dropped dead.
The great carcass was dragged ashore, while the bodies of the others killed were towed in by
the canoes.  They killed altogether ten animals, but the reindeer hunt in the water that day,
considering the loss of a fine canoe and all its contents, was not voted an unqualified success.

All the Indians present at the camp, which they made near the spot from which they had embarked
in the morning, went to work at the venison there landed, and in a few hours they had it all
cut into strips and broad flakes and hung up on stagings of poles speedily erected.  A smokeless
fire under [it], and the bright sun above it, in a few days made the meat so hard and dry that,
by using the backs of their axes for hammers and pounding this meat on the smooth wooden logs,
they thoroughly pulverised it.  Then packing it in bags made of the green hides of the deer,
and saturating the whole mass with the melted fat taken from around the kidneys of the reindeer,
they had prepared a most palatable kind of pemmican.  If well prepared in this way it was considered
fully equal to that made from the buffalo on the great plains.

Leaving the majority of the Indians of that country to continue their capturing of the reindeer
and the manufacturing of pemmican while they remained in that section of the land, Frank, Alec,
and Sam, with their travelling companions, returned to Oxford House.  There they made a visit
of a few days at the home of the missionary.  It was a great joy to meet with this devoted,
heroic man and his equally brave and noble wife, who for the sake of Christianisation and civilisation
of the Indians of this section of the country had willingly sacrificed the comforts and blessings
of civilisation and come to this land.  Only twice a year did they hear from the outer world,
and only once every year had they any opportunity of receiving any of the so-called "necessaries
of life" at this remote station.  Yet they said and showed that they were very happy in their
work, and rejoiced at the success which, not only to themselves but to any unbiased observer,
was so visibly manifested in the greatly improved lives and habits of the natives.  Missions
to such people are not failures.

They would have been delighted to have lingered longer in this home, and with this delightful
missionary and his good wife, who so reminded each of the boys of his own dear mother.  But
the Indians who were to take them back to Sagasta-weekee were uneasy at the appearances in
the heavens and of the birds in the air, and so it was decided that they must return.

Four days of rapid paddling were sufficient to make the return journey. At the close of each
day the boys remarked, as they cuddled up close to the splendid camp fire, that they seemed
to have an additional liking for its glow and warmth; and for the first time they preferred
to sleep as close together as possible, and were thankful that the thoughtful Indians had in
reserve for them an additional blanket apiece.  The last day of the home journey was quite
a cold one, but the vigorous exercise of paddling saved them from any discomfort.  They could
not but help noticing the large numbers of geese and ducks that were flying over them, and
all were going south.  The boys would have liked, where they were specially numerous, to have
stopped and had a few hours' shooting, but the Indians said:

"Perhaps to-morrow you will see it was best for us to get home."

So "forward" was the word, and on they went and reached home after an exceedingly rapid journey
from Oxford Lake.

They met with a right royal welcome at Sagasta-weekee.  Mr and Mrs Ross and the children were
all delighted to have them back again with them.  The faithful canoemen were well paid and
given a capital supper in the kitchen, and then dismissed to their several homes.

Frank, Alec, and Sam had each to give some account of their adventures to the household as
they were gathered that evening around the roaring fire, which was much enjoyed.  Then prayers
were offered, and away the boys went to their rooms.  They could not but remark to each other
how much warmer were their beds than when they last slept in them.  However, they found them
none too warm as they cuddled down in their downy depths and were soon fast asleep.

When they awoke the next morning the sleet and snow were beating with fury against the window
panes, and all nature was white with snow.

Shortly after the wind went down, and then the ice covered over all the open waters, and they
saw that that most delightful summer in the Wild North Land was ended, and the winter, with
its cold and brightness and possibilities for other kinds of sports and adventures, had begun.