"And now, sir," I said firmly, "it is but a step to a barber's stop where English is spoken."
And ruefully he accompanied me. I dare say that by that time he had discovered that I was not
to be trifled with, for during his hour in the barber's chair he did not once rebel openly.
Only at times would he roll his eyes to mine in dumb appeal. There was in them something of
the utter confiding helplessness I had noted in the eyes of an old setter at Chaynes-Wotten
when I had been called upon to assist the undergardener in chloroforming him. I mean to say,
the dog had jolly well known something terrible was being done to him, yet his eyes seemed
to say he knew it must be all for the best and that he trusted us. It was this look I caught
as I gave directions about the trimming of the hair, and especially when I directed that something
radical should be done to the long, grayish moustache that fell to either side of his chin
in the form of a horseshoe. I myself was puzzled by this difficulty, but the barber solved
it rather neatly, I thought, after a whispered consultation with me. He snipped a bit off each
end and then stoutly waxed the whole affair until the ends stood stiffly out with distinct
military implications. I shall never forget, and indeed I was not a little touched by the look
of quivering anguish in the eyes of my client when he first beheld this novel effect. And yet
when we were once more in the street I could not but admit that the change was worth all that
it had cost him in suffering. Strangely, he now looked like some one, especially after I had
persuaded him to a carnation for his buttonhole. I cannot say that his carriage was all that
it should have been, and he was still conscious of his smart attire, but I nevertheless felt
a distinct thrill of pride in my own work, and was eager to reveal him to Mrs. Effie in his
new guise.

But first he would have luncheon--dinner he called it--and I was not averse to this, for I
had put in a long and trying morning. I went with him to the little restaurant where Americans
had made so much trouble about ham and eggs, and there he insisted that I should join him in
chops and potatoes and ale. I thought it only proper then to point out to him that there was
certain differences in our walks of life which should be more or less denoted by his manner
of addressing me. Among other things he should not address me as Mr. Ruggles, nor was it customary
for a valet to eat at the same table with his master. He seemed much interested in these distinctions
and thereupon addressed me as "Colonel," which was of course quite absurd, but this I could
not make him see. Thereafter, I may say, that he called me impartially either "Colonel" or
"Bill." It was a situation that I had never before been obliged to meet, and I found it trying
in the extreme. He was a chap who seemed ready to pal up with any one, and I could not but
recall the strange assertion I had so often heard that in America one never knows who is one's
superior. Fancy that! It would never do with us. I could only determine to be on my guard.

Our luncheon done, he consented to accompany me to the hotel of the Honourable George, whence
I wished to remove my belongings. I should have preferred to go alone, but I was too fearful
of what he might do to himself or his clothes in my absence.

We found the Honourable George still in bed, as I had feared. He had, it seemed, been unable
to discover his collar studs, which, though I had placed them in a fresh shirt for him, he
had carelessly covered with a blanket. Begging Cousin Egbert to be seated in my room, I did
a few of the more obvious things required by my late master.

"You'd leave me here like a rat in a trap," he said reproachfully, which I thought almost quite
a little unjust. I mean to say, it had all been his own doing, he having lost me in the game
of drawing poker, so why should he row me about it now? I silently laid out the shirt once more.

"You might have told me where I'm to find my brown tweeds and the body linen."

Again he was addressing me as if I had voluntarily left him without notice, but I observed
that he was still mildly speckled from the night before, so I handed him the fruit-lozenges,
and went to pack my own box. Cousin Egbert I found sitting as I had left him, on the edge of
a chair, carefully holding his hat, stick, and gloves, and staring into the wall. He had promised
me faithfully not to fumble with his cravat, and evidently he had not once stirred. I packed
my box swiftly--my "grip," as he called it--and we were presently off once more, without another
sight of the Honourable George, who was to join us at tea. I could hear him moving about, using
rather ultra-frightful language, but I lacked heart for further speech with him at the moment.

An hour later, in the Floud drawing-room, I had the supreme satisfaction of displaying to Mrs.
Effie the happy changes I had been able to effect in my charge. Posing him, I knocked at the
door of her chamber. She came at once and drew a long breath as she surveyed him, from varnished
boots, spats, and coat to top-hat, which he still wore. He leaned rather well on his stick,
the hand to his hip, the elbow out, while the other hand lightly held his gloves. A moment
she looked, then gave a low cry of wonder and delight, so that I felt repaid for my trouble.
Indeed, as she faced me to thank me I could see that her eyes were dimmed.

"Wonderful!" she exclaimed. "Now he looks like some one!" And I distinctly perceived that only
just in time did she repress an impulse to grasp me by the hand. Under the circumstances I
am not sure that I wouldn't have overlooked the lapse had she yielded to it. "Wonderful!" she
said again.

Hereupon Cousin Egbert, much embarrassed, leaned his stick against the wall; the stick fell,
and in reaching down for it his hat fell, and in reaching for that he dropped his gloves; but
I soon restored him to order and he was safely seated where he might be studied in further
detail, especially as to his moustaches, which I had considered rather the supreme touch.

"He looks exactly like some well-known clubman," exclaimed Mrs. Effie.

Her relative growled as if he were quite ready to savage her.

"Like a man about town," she murmured. "Who would have thought he had it in him until you brought
it out?" I knew then that we two should understand each other.

The slight tension was here relieved by two of the hotel servants who brought tea things. At
a nod from Mrs. Effie I directed the laying out of these.

At that moment came the other Floud, he of the eyebrows, and a cousin cub called Elmer, who,
I understood, studied art. I became aware that they were both suddenly engaged and silenced
by the sight of Cousin Egbert. I caught their amazed stares, and then terrifically they broke
into gales of laughter. The cub threw himself on a couch, waving his feet in the air, and holding
his middle as if he'd suffered a sudden acute dyspepsia, while the elder threw his head back
and shrieked hysterically. Cousin Egbert merely glared at them and, endeavouring to stroke
his moustache, succeeded in unwaxing one side of it so that it once more hung limply down his
chin, whereat they renewed their boorishness. The elder Floud was now quite dangerously purple,
and the cub on the couch was shrieking: "No matter how dark the clouds, remember she is still
your stepmother," or words to some such silly effect as that. How it might have ended I hardly
dare conjecture--perhaps Cousin Egbert would presently have roughed them--but a knock sounded,
and it became my duty to open our door upon other guests, women mostly; Americans in Paris;
that sort of thing.

I served the tea amid their babble. The Honourable George was shown up a bit later, having
done to himself quite all I thought he might in the matter of dress. In spite of serious discrepancies
in his attire, however, I saw that Mrs. Effie meant to lionize him tremendously. With vast
ceremony he was presented to her guests--the Honourable George Augustus Vane-Basingwell, brother
of his lordship the Earl of Brinstead. The women fluttered about him rather, though he behaved
moodily, and at the first opportunity fell to the tea and cakes quite wholeheartedly.

In spite of my aversion to the American wilderness, I felt a bit of professional pride in reflecting
that my first day in this new service was about to end so auspiciously. Yet even in that moment,
being as yet unfamiliar with the room's lesser furniture, I stumbled slightly against a hassock
hid from me by the tray I carried. A cup of tea was lost, though my recovery was quick. Too
late I observed that the hitherto self-effacing Cousin Egbert was in range of my clumsiness.

"There goes tea all over my new pants!" he said in a high, pained voice.

"Sorry, indeed, sir," said I, a ready napkin in hand. "Let me dry it, sir!"

"Yes, sir, I fancy quite so, sir," said he.

I most truly would have liked to shake him smartly for this. I saw that my work was cut out
for me among these Americans, from whom at their best one expects so little.

CHAPTER THREE

As I brisked out of bed the following morning at half-after six, I could not but wonder rather
nervously what the day might have in store for me. I was obliged to admit that what I was in
for looked a bit thick. As I opened my door I heard stealthy footsteps down the hall and looked
out in time to observe Cousin Egbert entering his own room. It was not this that startled me.
He would have been abroad, I knew, for the ham and eggs that were forbidden him. Yet I stood
aghast, for with the lounge-suit of tweeds I had selected the day before he had worn his top-hat!
I am aware that these things I relate of him may not be credited. I can only put them down
in all sincerity.

I hastened to him and removed the thing from his head. I fear it was not with the utmost deference,
for I have my human moments.

"It's not done, sir," I protested. He saw that I was offended.

"All right, sir," he replied meekly. "But how was I to know? I thought it kind of set me off."
He referred to it as a "stove-pipe" hat. I knew then that I should find myself overlooking
many things in him. He was not a person one could be stern with, and I even promised that Mrs.
Effie should not be told of his offence, he promising in turn never again to stir abroad without
first submitting himself to me and agreeing also to wear sock-suspenders from that day forth.
I saw, indeed, that diplomacy might work wonders with him.

At breakfast in the drawing-room, during which Cousin Egbert earned warm praise from Mrs. Effie
for his lack of appetite (he winking violently at me during this), I learned that I should
be expected to accompany him to a certain art gallery which corresponds to our British Museum.
I was a bit surprised, indeed, to learn that he largely spent his days there, and was accustomed
to make notes of the various objects of interest.

"I insisted," explained Mrs. Effie, "that he should absorb all the culture he could on his
trip abroad, so I got him a notebook in which he puts down his impressions, and I must say
he's done fine. Some of his remarks are so good that when he gets home I may have him read
a paper before our Onwards and Upwards Club."

Cousin Egbert wriggled modestly at this and said: "Shucks!" which I took to be a term of deprecation.

"You needn't pretend," said Mrs. Effie. "Just let Ruggles here look over some of the notes
you have made," and she handed me a notebook of ruled paper in which there was a deal of writing.
I glanced, as bidden, at one or two of the paragraphs, and confess that I, too, was amazed
at the fluency and insight displayed along lines in which I should have thought the man entirely
uninformed. "This choice work represents the first or formative period of the Master," began
one note, "but distinctly foreshadows that later method which made him at once the hope and
despair of his contemporaries. In the 'Portrait of the Artist by Himself' we have a canvas
that well repays patient study, since here is displayed in its full flower that ruthless realism,
happily attenuated by a superbly subtle delicacy of brush work----" It was really quite amazing,
and I perceived for the first time that Cousin Egbert must be "a diamond in the rough," as
the well-known saying has it. I felt, indeed, that I would be very pleased to accompany him
on one of his instructive strolls through this gallery, for I have always been of a studious
habit and anxious to improve myself in the fine arts.

"You see?" asked Mrs. Effie, when I had perused this fragment. "And yet folks back home would
tell you that he's just a----" Cousin Egbert here coughed alarmingly. "No matter," she continued.
"He'll show them that he's got something in him, mark my words."

"Quite so, Madam," I said, "and I shall consider it a privilege to be present when he further
prosecutes his art studies."

"You may keep him out till dinner-time," she continued. "I'm shopping this morning, and in
the afternoon I shall motor to have tea in the Boy with the Senator and Mr. Nevil Vane-Basingwell."

Presently, then, my charge and I set out for what I hoped was to be a peaceful and instructive
day among objects of art, though first I was obliged to escort him to a hatter's and glover's
to remedy some minor discrepancies in his attire. He was very pleased when I permitted him
to select his own hat. I was safe in this, as the shop was really artists in gentlemen's headwear,
and carried only shapes, I observed, that were confined to exclusive firms so as to insure
their being worn by the right set. As to gloves and a stick, he was again rather pettish and
had to be set right with some firmness. He declared he had lost his stick and gloves of the
previous day. I discovered later that he had presented them to the lift attendant. But I soon
convinced him that he would not be let to appear without these adjuncts to a gentleman's toilet.

Then, having once more stood by at the barber's while he was shaved and his moustaches firmly
waxed anew, I saw that he was fit at last for his art studies. The barber this day suggested
curling the moustaches with a heated iron, but at this my charge fell into so unseemly a rage
that I deemed it wise not to insist. He, indeed, bluntly threatened a nameless violence to
the barber if he were so much as touched with the iron, and revealed an altogether shocking
gift for profanity, saying loudly: "I'll be--dashed--if you will!" I mean to say, I have written
"dashed" for what he actually said. But at length I had him once more quieted.

"Now, sir," I said, when I had got him from the barber's shop, to the barber's manifest relief:
"I fancy we've time to do a few objects of art before luncheon. I've the book here for your
comments," I added.

"Quite so," he replied, and led me at a rapid pace along the street in what I presumed was
the direction of the art museum. At the end of a few blocks he paused at one of those open-air
public houses that disgracefully line the streets of the French capital. I mean to say that
chairs and tables are set out upon the pavement in the most brazen manner and occupied by the
populace, who there drink their silly beverages and idle away their time. After scanning the
score or so of persons present, even at so early an hour as ten of the morning, he fell into
one of the iron chairs at one of the iron tables and motioned me to another at his side.

When I had seated myself he said "Beer" to the waiter who appeared, and held up two fingers.

"Now, look at here," he resumed to me, "this is a good place to do about four pages of art,
and then we can go out and have some recreation somewhere." Seeing that I was puzzled, he added:
"This way--you take that notebook and write in it out of this here other book till I think
you've done enough, then I'll tell you to stop." And while I was still bewildered, he drew
from an inner pocket a small, well-thumbed volume which I took from him and saw to be entitled
"One Hundred Masterpieces of the Louvre."

"Open her about the middle," he directed, "and pick out something that begins good, like 'Here
the true art-lover will stand entranced----' You got to write it, because I guess you can write
faster than what I can. I'll tell her I dictated to you. Get a hustle on now, so's we can get
through. Write down about four pages of that stuff."

Stunned I was for a moment at his audacity. Too plainly I saw through his deception. Each day,
doubtless, he had come to a low place of this sort and copied into the notebook from the printed
volume.

"But, sir," I protested, "why not at least go to the gallery where these art objects are stored?
Copy the notes there if that must be done."

"I don't know where the darned place is," he confessed. "I did start for it the first day,
but I run into a Punch and Judy show in a little park, and I just couldn't get away from it,
it was so comical, with all the French kids hollering their heads off at it. Anyway, what's
the use? I'd rather set here in front of this saloon, where everything is nice."

"It's very extraordinary, sir," I said, wondering if I oughtn't to cut off to the hotel and
warn Mrs. Effie so that she might do a heated foot to him, as he had once expressed it.

"Well, I guess I've got my rights as well as anybody," he insisted. "I'll be pushed just so
far and no farther, not if I never get any more cultured than a jack-rabbit. And now you better
go on and write or I'll be--dashed--if I'll ever wear another thing you tell me to."

He had a most bitter and dangerous expression on his face, so I thought best to humour him
once more. Accordingly I set about writing in his notebook from the volume of criticism he
had supplied.

"Change a word now and then and skip around here and there," he suggested as I wrote, "so's
it'll sound more like me."

"Quite so, sir," I said, and continued to transcribe from the printed page. I was beginning
the fifth page in the notebook, being in the midst of an enthusiastic description of the bit
of statuary entitled "The Winged Victory," when I was startled by a wild yell in my ear. Cousin
Egbert had leaped to his feet and now danced in the middle of the pavement, waving his stick
and hat high in the air and shouting incoherently. At once we attracted the most undesirable
attention from the loungers about us, the waiters and the passers-by in the street, many of
whom stopped at once to survey my charge with the liveliest interest. It was then I saw that
he had merely wished to attract the attention of some one passing in a cab. Half a block down
the boulevard I saw a man likewise waving excitedly, standing erect in the cab to do so. The
cab thereupon turned sharply, came back on the opposite side of the street, crossed over to
us, and the occupant alighted.

