Being come to our lodgings, there was such baking, boiling, roasting, and stewing, as if Cook
Ruffian had been there to have scalded the devil in his feathers: and after supper a fire of
fir-wood as high as an indifferent May-pole: for I assure you, that the Earl of Mar will give
any man that is his friend, for thanks, as many fir trees (that are as good as any ship's masts
in England) as are worth if they were in any place near the Thames, or any other portable river)
the best earldom in England or Scotland either: For I dare affirm, he hath as many growing
there, as would serve for masts (from this time to the end of the world) for all the ships,
caracks, hoys, galleys, boats, drumlers, barks, and water-crafts, that are now, or can be in
the world these forty years.

This sounds like a lie to an unbeliever; but I and many thousands do know that I speak within
the compass of truth: for indeed (the more is the pity) they do grow so far from any passage
of water, and withal in such rocky mountains, that no way to convey them is possible to be
passable, either with boat, horse, or cart.

Thus having spent certain days in hunting in the Brae of Mar, we went to the next county called
Badenoch, belonging to the Earl of Enzie, where having such sport and entertainment as we formerly
had; after four or five days pastime, we took leave of hunting for that year; and took our
journey toward a strong house of the Earl's, called Ruthven in Badenoch, where my Lord of Enzie
and his noble Countess (being daughter to the Earl of Argyle) did give us most noble welcome
three days.

From thence we went to a place called Balloch Castle,[25] a fair and stately house, a worthy
gentleman being the owner of it, called the Laird of Grant; his wife being a gentlewoman honourably
descended being sister to the right Honourable Earl of Athol, and to Sir Patrick Murray Knight;
she being both inwardly and outwardly plentifully adorned with the gifts of grace and nature:
so that our cheer was more than sufficient; and yet much less than they could afford us. There
stayed there four days, four Earls, one Lord, divers Knights and Gentlemen, and their servants,
footmen and horses; and every meal four long tables furnished with all varieties: our first
and second course being three score dishes at one board; and after that always a banquet: and
there if I had not forsworn wine till I came to Edinburgh I think I had there drunk my last.

The fifth day with much ado we gate from thence to Tarnaway, a goodly house of the Earl of
Murrays,[26] where that Right Honourable Lord and his Lady did welcome us four days more. There
was good cheer in all variety, with somewhat more than plenty for advantage: for indeed the
County of Murray is the most pleasantest and plentiful country in all Scotland; being plain
land, that a coach may be driven more than four and thirty miles one way in it, alongst by
the sea-coast.

From thence I went to Elgin in Murray,[27] an ancient City, where there stood a fair and beautiful
church with three steeples, the walls of it and the steeples all yet standing; but the roofs,
windows, and many marble monuments and tombs of honourable and worthy personages all broken
and defaced: this was done in the time when ruin bare rule, and Knox knocked down churches.

From Elgin we went to the Bishop of Murray his house which is called Spiny, or Spinay: a Reverend
Gentleman he is, of the noble name of Douglas, where we were very well welcomed, as befitted
the honour of himself and his guests.

From thence we departed to the Lord Marquess of Huntlys to a sumptuous house of his, named
the Bog of Geethe, where our entertainment was like himself, free, bountiful and honourable.
There (after two days stay) with much entreaty and earnest suit, I gate leave of the Lords
to depart towards Edinburgh: the Noble Marquess, the Earl of Mar, Murray, Enzie, Buchan, and
the Lord Erskine; all these, I thank them, gave me gold to defray my charges in my journey.

So after five and thirty days hunting and travel I returning, past by another stately mansion
of the Lord Marquesses, called Stroboggy, and so over Carny mount to Brechin, where a wench
that was born deaf and dumb came into my chamber at midnight (I being asleep) and she opening
the bed, would feign have lodged with me: but had I been a Sardanapalus, or a Heliogabulus,
I think that either the great travel over the mountains had tamed me; or if not, her beauty
could never have moved me. The best parts of her were, that her breath was as sweet as sugar-candian,[28]
being very well shouldered beneath the waste; and as my hostess told me the next morning, that
she had changed her maiden-head for the price of a bastard not long before. But howsoever,
she made such a hideous noise, that I started out of my sleep, and thought that the Devil had
been there: but I no sooner knew who it was, but I arose, and thrust my dumb beast out of my
chamber; and for want of a lock or a latch, I staked up my door with a great chair.

Thus having escaped one of the seven deadly sins as at Brechin, I departed from thence to a
town called Forfor; and from thence to Dundee, and so to Kinghorn, Burntisland, and so to Edinburgh,
where I stayed eight days, to recover myself of falls and bruises, which I received in my travel
in the Highland mountainous hunting. Great welcome I had showed me all my stay at Edinburgh,
by many worthy gentlemen, namely, old Master George Todrigg, Master Henry Livingston, Master
James Henderson, Master John Maxwell, and a number of others, who suffered me to want no wine
or good cheer, as may be imagined.

Now the day before I came from Edinburgh, I went to Leith, where I found my long approved and
assured good friend Master Benjamin Jonson, at one Master John Stuarts house; I thank him for
his great kindness towards me: for at my taking leave of him, he gave me a piece of gold of
two and twenty shillings[29] to drink his health in England. And withal, willed me to remember
his kind commendations to all his friends: So with a friendly farewell, I left him as well,
as I hope never to see him in a worse estate: for he is amongst noblemen and gentlemen that
know his true worth, and their own honours, where, with much respective love he is worthily
entertained.

So leaving Leith I returned to Edinburgh, and within the port or gate, called the Nether-Bow,
I discharged my pockets of all the money I had: and as I came pennyless within the walls of
that city at my first coming thither; so now at my departing from thence, I came moneyless
out of it again; having in company to convey me out, certain gentlemen, amongst the which Master
James Acherson, Laird of Gasford, a gentleman that brought me to his house, where with great
entertainment he and his good wife did welcome me.

On the morrow he sent one of his men to bring me to a place called Adam, to Master John Acmootye
his house, one of the Grooms of his Majesty's Bed-chamber; where with him and his two brethren,
Master Alexander, and Master James Acmootye, I found both cheer and welcome, not inferior to
any that I had had in any former place.

Amongst our viands that we had there, I must not forget the Sole and Goose (sic), a most delicate
fowl, which breeds in great abundance in a little rock called the Bass, which stands two miles
into the sea. It is very good flesh, but it is eaten in the form as we eat oysters, standing
at a side-board, a little before dinner, unsanctified without grace; and after it is eaten,
it must be well liquored with two or three good rouses[30] of sherry or canary sack. The Lord
or owner of the Bass doth profit at the least two hundred pound yearly by those geese; the
Bass itself being of a great height, and near three quarters of a mile in compass, all fully
replenished with wild fowl, having but one small entrance into it, with a house, a garden,
and a chapel in it; and on the top of it a well of pure fresh water.

From Adam, Master John and Master James Acmootye went to the town of Dunbar with me, where
ten Scottish pints of wine were consumed, and brought to nothing for a farewell: there at Master
James Baylies house I took leave, and Master James Acmootye coming for England, said, that
if I would ride with, that neither I nor my horse should want betwixt that place and London.
Now I having no money nor means for travel, began at once to examine my manners and my want:
at last my want persuaded my manners to accept of this worthy gentleman's undeserved courtesy.
So that night he brought me to a place called Cockburnspath, where we lodged at an inn, the
like of which I dare say, is not in any of his Majesty's Dominions. And for to show my thankfulness
to Master William Arnot and his wife, the owners thereof, I must explain their bountiful entertainment
of guests, which is this:

Suppose ten, fifteen, or twenty men and horses come to lodge at their house, the men shall
have flesh, tame and wild fowl, fish with all variety of good cheer, good lodging, and welcome;
and the horses shall want neither hay or provender: and at the morning at their departure the
reckoning is just nothing. This is this worthy gentlemen's use, his chief delight being only
to give strangers entertainment gratis: and I am sure, that in Scotland beyond Edinburgh, I
have been at houses like castles for building; the master of the house his beaver being his
blue bonnet, one that will wear no other shirts, but of the flax that grows on his own ground,
and of his wife's, daughters', or servants' spinning; that hath his stockings, hose, and jerkin
of the wool of his own sheep's backs; that never (by his pride of apparel) caused mercer, draper,
silk-man, embroiderer, or haberdasher to break and turn bankrupt: and yet this plain home-spun
fellow keeps and maintains thirty, forty, fifty servants, or perhaps, more, every day relieving
three or fourscore poor people at his gate; and besides all this, can give noble entertainment
for four or five days together to five or six earls and lords, besides knights, gentlemen and
their followers, if they be three or four hundred men, and horse of them, where they shall
not only feed but feast, and not feast but banquet, this is a man that desires to know nothing
so much, as his duty to God and his King, whose greatest cares are to practise the works of
piety, charity, and hospitality: he never studies the consuming art of fashionless fashions,
he never tries his strength to bear four or five hundred acres on his back at once, his legs
are always at liberty, not being fettered with golden garters, and manacled with artificial
roses, whose weight (sometime) is the last reliques of some decayed Lordship: Many of these
worthy housekeepers there are in Scotland, amongst some of them I was entertained; from whence
I did truly gather these aforesaid observations.

So leaving Cockburnspath, we rode to Berwick, where the worthy old Soldier and ancient Knight,
Sir William Bowyer, made me welcome, but contrary to his will, we lodged at an Inn, where Master
James Acmootye paid all charges: but at Berwick there was a grievous chance happened, which
I think not fit the relation to be omitted.

In the river of Tweed, which runs by Berwick, are taken by fishermen that dwell there, infinite
numbers of fresh salmons, so that many households and families are relieved by the profit of
that fishing; but (how long since I know not) there was an order that no man or boy whatsoever
should fish upon a Sunday: this order continued long amongst them, till some eight or nine
weeks before Michaelmas last, on a Sunday, the salmons played in such great abundance in the
river, that some of the fishermen (contrary to God's law and their own order) took boats and
nets and fished, and caught near three hundred salmons; but from that time until Michaelmas
day that I was there, which was nine weeks, and heard the report of it, and saw the poor people's
miserable lamentations, they had not seen one salmon in the river; and some of them were in
despair that they should never see any more there; affirming it to be God's judgment upon them
for the profanation of the Sabbath.

The thirtieth of September we rode from Berwick to Belford from Belford to Alnwick, the next
day from Alnwick to Newcastle, where I found the noble Knight, Sir Henry Witherington; who,
because I would have no gold nor silver, gave me a bay mare, in requital of a loaf of bread
that I had given him two and twenty years before, at the Island of Flores, of the which I have
spoken before. I overtook at Newcastle a great many of my worthy friends, which were all coming
for London, namely, Master Robert Hay, and Master David Drummond, where I was welcomed at Master
Nicholas Tempests house. From Newcastle I rode with those gentlemen to Durham, to Darlington,
to Northallerton, and to Topcliffe in Yorkshire, where I took my leave of them, and would needs
try my pennyless fortunes by myself, and see the city of York, where I was lodged at my right
worshipful good friend, Master Doctor Hudson one of his Majesty's chaplains, who went with
me, and shewed me the goodly Minster Church there, and the most admirable, rare-wrought, unfellowed[31]
chapter house.

From York I rode to Doncaster, where my horses were well fed at the Bear, but myself found
out the honorable Knight, Sir Robert Anstruther at his father-in-law's, the truly noble Sir
Robert Swifts house, he being then High Sheriff of Yorkshire, where with their good Ladies,
and the right Honourable the Lord Sanquhar, I was stayed two nights and one day, Sir Robert
Anstruther (I thank him) not only paying for my two horses' meat, but at my departure, he gave
me a letter to Newark upon Trent, twenty eight miles in my way, where Master George Atkinson
mine host made me as welcome, as if I had been a French Lord, and what was to be paid, as I
called for nothing, I paid as much; and left the reckoning with many thanks to Sir Robert Anstruther.

So leaving Newark, with another gentleman that overtook me, we came at night to Stamford, to
the sign of the Virginity (or the Maidenhead) where I delivered a letter from the Lord Sanquhar;
which caused Master Bates and his wife, being the master and mistress of the house, to make
me and the gentleman that was with me great cheer for nothing.

From Stamford the next day we rode to Huntington, where we lodged at the Postmaster's house,
at the sign of the Crown; his name is Riggs. He was informed who I was, and wherefore I undertook
this my pennyless progress: wherefore he came up to our chamber, and supped with us, and very
bountifully called for three quarts of wine and sugar, and four jugs of beer. He did drink
and begin healths like a horse-leech and swallowed down his cups without feeling, as if he
had had the dropsy, or nine pound of sponge in his maw. In a word, as he is a post, he drank
post, striving and calling by all means to make the reckoning great, or to make us men of great
reckoning. But in his payment he was tired like a jade, leaving the gentleman that was with
me to discharge the terrible shot, or else one of my horses must have lain in pawn for his
superfluous calling, and unmannerly intrusion.

But leaving him, I left Huntington, and rode on the Sunday to Puckeridge, where Master Holland
at the Falcon, (mine old acquaintance) and my loving and ancient host gave me, my friend, my
man, and our horses excellent cheer, and welcome, and I paid him with, not a penny of money.

The next day I came to London, and obscurely coming within Moorgate, I went to a house and
borrowed money: and so I stole back again to Islington, to the sign of the Maidenhead,[32]
staying till Wednesday, that my friends came to meet me, who knew no other, but that Wednesday
was my first coming; where with all love I was entertained with much good cheer: and after
supper we had a play of the Life and Death of Guy of Warwick,[33] played by the Right Honourable
the Earl of Derby his men. And so on the Thursday morning being the fifteenth of October, I
came home to my house in London.

[Decorative thought break]

THE EPILOGUE TO ALL MY ADVENTURERS AND OTHERS.

   Thus did I neither spend, or beg, or ask,
   By any course, direct or indirectly:
   But in each tittle I performed my task,
   According to my bill most circumspectly.
   I vow to God, I have done SCOTLAND wrong,
   (And (justly) against me it may bring an action)
   I have not given it that right which doth belong,
   For which I am half guilty of detraction:
   Yet had I wrote all things that there I saw,
   Misjudging censures would suppose I flatter,
   And so my name I should in question draw,
   Where asses bray, and prattling pies do chatter:
   Yet (armed with truth) I publish with my pen,
   That there the Almighty doth his blessings heap,
   In such abundant food for beasts and men;
   That I ne'er saw more plenty or more cheap.
   Thus what mine eyes did see, I do believe;
   And what I do believe, I know is true:
   And what is true unto your hands I give,
   That what I give, may be believed of you.
   But as for him that says I lie or dote,
   I do return, and turn the lie in's throat.
     Thus gentlemen, amongst you take my ware,
     You share my thanks, and I your moneys share.

        Yours in all observance and gratefulness,

              ever to be commanded,

                   JOHN TAYLOR.

FINIS.

[Decoration]

[Footnote 1: PROVANT.--Provender; provision.]

[Footnote 2: FEGARY.--A vagary.]

[Footnote 3: TRUNDLE.--i.e., John Trundle of the sign of No-body (see note page 6).]

[Footnote 4: It is reasonable to conjecture that at this date the custom of "Swearing-in at
Highgate was not in vogue--or, No-body would have taken the oath.]

[Footnote 5: NAMED LEAN AND FEN.--Some jest is intended here on the Host's name.--Qy., Leanfen,
or, the anagram of A. FENNEL.]

[Footnote 6: NO-BODY was the singular sign of John Trundle, a ballad-printer in Barbican in
the seventeenth century [and who seems to have accompanied our author as far as Whetstone on
his "Penniless Pilgrimage"--and, certainly up to this point a very "wet" one!] In one of Ben
Jonson's plays Nobody is introduced, "attyred in a payre of Breeches, which were made to come
up to his neck, with his armes out at his pockets and cap drowning his face." This comedy was
"printed for John Trundle and are to be sold at his shop in Barbican at the sygne of No-Body."
A unique ballad, preserved in the Miller Collection at Britwell House, entitled "The Well-spoken
No-body," is accompanied by a woodcut representing a ragged barefooted fool on pattens, with
a torn money-bag under his arm, walking through a chaos of broken pots, pans, bellows, candlesticks,
tongs, tools, windows, &c. Above him is a scroll in black-letter:--

"Nobody.is.my.Name.that.Beyreth.Every.Bodyes.Blame."

The ballad commences as follows:--

   "Many speke of Robin Hoode that never shott in his bowe,
   So many have layed faultes to me, which I did never knowe;
           But nowe, beholde, here I am,
           Whom all the worlde doeth diffame;
           Long have they also scorned me,
           And locked my mouthe for speking free.
           As many a Godly man they have so served
           Which unto them God's truth hath shewed;
           Of such they have burned and hanged some.
           That unto their ydolatrye wold not come:
           The Ladye Truthe they have locked in cage,
           Saying of her Nobodye had knowledge.
           For as much nowe as they name Nobodye
           I thinke verilye they speke of me:
           Whereffore to answere I nowe beginne--
           The locke of my mouthe is opened with ginne,
           Wrought by no man, but by God's grace,
           Unto whom be prayse in every place," &c.

Larwood and Hotten's History of Signboards.]

[Footnote 7: PULSE.--All sorts of leguminous seeds.]

[Footnote 8: See Dedication to The Scourge of Baseness.]

[Footnote 9: MASTER DOCTOR HOLLAND.--The once well-known Philemon Holland, Physician, and "Translator-General
of his Age," published translations of Livy, 1600; Pliny's "Natural History," 1601; Camden's
"Britannica," &c. He is said to have used in translation more paper and fewer pens than any
other writer before or since, and who "would not let Suetonius be Tranquillus." Born at Chelmsford,
1551; died 1636.]

[Footnote 10: EDMUND BRANTHWAITE.--Robert Branthwaite, William Branthwaite Cant., and "Thy
assured friend" R. B., have each written Commendatory Verses to ALL THE WORKS OF JOHN TAYLOR.
London 1630. And Southey in his "Lives and Works of Uneducated Poets," has the following:--"One
might have hoped in these parts for a happy meeting between John Taylor and Barnabee, of immortal
memory; indeed it is likely that the Water-Poet and the Anti-Water-Poet were acquainted, and
that the latter may have introduced him to his connections hereabout, Branthwaite being the
same name as Brathwait, and Barnabee's brother having married a daughter of this Sir John Dalston."]

[Footnote 11: PIERCE PENNILESS, by Thomas Nash. London, 1592.]

[Footnote 12: This "ordnance of iron" still exists there, and is historically known as "Mons
Meg" and popularly as "Long Meg."]

[Footnote 13: RECEITE.--A receptacle.]

[Footnote 14: VAUSTITY.--Emptiness.]

[Footnote 15: See Anderson's The Cold Spring of Kinghorn Craig, Edinb. 1618.]

[Footnote 16: CORYATIZING.--Thomas Coryate, an English traveller, who called himself the "Odcombian
leg-stretcher." Taylor had an especial grudge against Coryat, for having had influence enough
to procure his "Laugh and be Fat"--directed against the traveller--to be burned; and that he
never failed to "feed fat the ancient grudge," may be seen in the many pieces of ridicule levelled
at the author of the "Crudities," even after his death.]

[Footnote 17: TOPHET.--The Hebrew name for Hell.]

[Footnote 18: CIMMERIAN.--Pertaining to the Cimmerii, or their country; extremely and perpetually
dark. The Cimmerii were an ancient people of the land now called the Crimea, and their country
being subject to heavy fogs, was fabled to be involved in deep and continual obscurity. Ancient
poets also mention a people of this name who dwelt in a valley near Lake Avernus, in Italy,
which the sun was said never to visit.]

[Footnote 19: PERTH.]

[Footnote 20: BRAEMAR.]

[Footnote 21: VIRGINAL JACK.--A keyed instrument resembling a spinet.]

[Footnote 22: RED-SHANKS.--A contemptuous appellation for Scottish Highland clansmen and native
Irish, with reference to their naked hirsute limbs, and "As lively as a Red-Shank" is still
a proverbial saying:--"And we came into Ireland, where they would have landed in the north
parts. But I would not, because there the inhabitants were all Red-shanks."--Sir Walter Raleigh's
Speech on the Scaffold.]

[Footnote 23: PUT ME INTO THAT SHAPE.--That is, invested him in Highland attire.]

[Footnote 24: "Probably the district around the skirts of Ben Muicdui."--Chambers' Domestic
Annals of Scotland.]

[Footnote 25: BALLOCH CASTLE.--Now called Castle-Grant.]

[Footnote 26: MORAY.]

[Footnote 27: MORAYLAND.]

[Footnote 28: SUGAR-CANDIAN.--i.e., Sugar-candy.]

[Footnote 29: A PIECE OF GOLD OF TWO-AND-TWENTY SHILLINGS.--"This was a considerable present;
but Jonson's hand and heart were ever open to his acquaintance. All his pleasures were social;
and while health and fortune smiled upon him, he was no niggard either of his time or talents
to those who needed them. There is something striking in Taylor's concluding sentence, when
the result of his (Jonson's) visit to Drummond is considered:--but there is one evil that walks,
which keener eyes than John's have often failed to discover.--I have only to add, in justice
to this honest man (Taylor) that his gratitude outlived the subject of it. He paid the tribute
of a verse to his benefactor's memory:--the verse indeed, was mean: but poor Taylor had nothing
better to give."--Lt. Col. Francis Cunningham's edition of Gifford's Ben Jonson's Works, p. xli.

"In the summer of 1618 Scotland received a visit from the famous Ben Jonson. The burly Laureate
walked all the way, among the motives for a journey then undertaken by few Englishmen, might
be curiosity regarding a country from which he knew that his family was derived, his grandfather
having been one of the Johnsons of Annandale. He had many friends too, particularly among the
connections of the Lennox family, whom he might be glad to see at their own houses. Among those
with whom he had amicable intercourse, was William Drummond, the poet, then in the prime of
life, and living as a bachelor in his romantic mansion of Hawthornden, on the Esk, seven miles
from Edinburgh. It is probable that Drummond and Jonson had met before in London, and indulged
together in the "wit-combats" at the Mermaid and similar scenes. Indeed, there is a prevalent
belief in Scotland that it was mainly to see Drummond at Hawthornden that Jonson came so far
from home, and certain it is, from Drummond's report of his 'Conversations,' that he designed
'to write a Fisher or Pastoral (Piscatory?) Play--and make the stage of it on the Lomond Lake--he
also contemplated writing in prose his 'Foot Pilgrimage to Scotland,' which, with a feeling
very natural in one who found so much to admire where so little had been known, he spoke of
entitling 'A DISCOVERY.' Unfortunately, this work, as well as a poem in which he called Edinburgh--

     'The Heart of Scotland, Britain's other eye,'

has not been preserved to us. We can readily see that the work contemplated must have been
of a general character, from Jonson's letters to Drummond on the subject of it. How much to
be regretted that we have not the Scotland of that day delineated by so vigorous a pen as that
of the author of Sejanual"--Chambers' Domestic Annals of Scotland, vol. 1.

Whether Taylor's "Penniless Pilgrimage" really did interfere with, and prevent the publication
of Ben Jonson's 'Foot Pilgrimage' would now be difficult to say. It is very evident from Taylor's
remarks in his Dedication "To all my loving adventurers, &c.," he had been accused by the critics
that he "did undergo this project, either in malice, or mockage of Master Benjamin Jonson."
It is quite certain that Taylor lost no time in getting his "Pilgrimage" printed "at the charges
of the author" immediately on his return to London on the fifteenth of October 1618.]

[Footnote 30: ROUSE.--A full glass, a bumper.]

[Footnote 31: UNFELLOWED.--i.e., not matched.]

[Footnote 32: TO ISLINGTON TO THE SIGN OF THE MAINDENHEAD.--This then roadside Public-house,
we are informed from recent enquiries, was situate at the corner of Maiden Lane, Battle Bridge,
now known as King's Cross, from a statue of George IV.--a most execrable performance taken
down 1842. The "Old Pub" is turned into a gin palace, and named the Victoria, while Maiden
Lane--an ancient way leading from Battle Bridge to Highgate Hill--is known now as York Road.]

[Footnote 33: GUY OF WARWICK.--There are several versions and editions of this work. In the
book of the Stationers' Company, John Trundle--he at the sign of NO-BODY--on the 15th of January,
1619, entered "a play, called the Life and Death of Guy Earl of Warwick, written by John Day
and Thomas Dekker." See Baker's Biog. Dram., page 274, vol. 2.--"Well, if he read this with
patience I'll be gelt, and troll ballads for Master Trundle yonder, the rest of my mortality."--Ben
Jonson's Every Man in his Humour, act i. sc. 2.]

Corrections Made by Transcriber

     Page 16, line 16: "hls" changed to "his."
     Page 36: "forgotton" changed to "forgotten."
     Page 46: "musquitoes" changed to "mosquitoes."
     Footnote 6, last line of poem: "he" changed to "be."
     Page 46: Orphaned right parenthesis removed.