THE JUDGE

by

REBECCA WEST

Author of "The Return Of The Soldier"

New York George H. Doran Company

1922,

TO

THE MEMORY OF

MY MOTHER

BOOK ONE

     "Every mother is a judge who sentences the children for the sins of
     the father." For she was a Suffragette, so far as it is possible to be a
Suffragette effectively when one is just seventeen, and she spent much
of her time composing speeches which she knew she would always be too
shy to deliver. "There is a sinister air about palaces. Always they
appear like the camp of an invading army that is uneasy and keeps a good
look-out lest they need shoot. Remember they are always ready to
shoot...." She interrupted herself with a click of annoyance. "I see
myself standing on a herring-barrel and trying to hold the crowd with
the like of that. It's too literary. I always am. I doubt I'll never
make a speaker. 'Deed, I'll never be anything but the wee typist that I
am...." And misery rushed in on her mind again. She fell to watching the
succession of little black figures that huddled in their topcoats as
they came down the side-street, bent suddenly at the waist as they came
to the corner and met the full force of the east wind, and then pulled
themselves upright and butted at it afresh with dour faces. The
spectacle evoked a certain local pride, for such inclemencies were just
part of the asperity of conditions which she reckoned as the price one
had to pay for the dignity of living in Edinburgh; which indeed gave it
its dignity, since to survive anything so horrible proved one good rough
stuff fit to govern the rest of the world. But chiefly it evoked
desolation. For she knew none of these people. In all the town there was
nobody but her mother who was at all aware of her. It was six months
since she left John Thompson's Ladies' College in John Square, so by
this time the teachers would barely remember that she had been strong in
Latin and mathematics but weak in French, and they were the only adult
people who had ever heard her name. She wanted to be tremendously known
as strong in everything by personalities more glittering than these.
Less than that would do: just to see people's faces doing something else
than express resentment at the east wind, to hear them say something
else than "Twopence" to the tram-conductor. Perhaps if one once got
people going there might happen an adventure which, even if one had no
part in it, would be a spectacle. It was seventeen years since she had
first taken up her seat in the world's hall (and it was none too
comfortable a seat), but there was still no sign of the concert
beginning.

"Yet, Lord, I've a lot to be thankful for!" breathed Ellen. She had this rich consciousness
of her surroundings, a fortuitous possession, a mere congenital peculiarity like her red hair
or her white skin, which did the girl no credit. It kept her happy even now, when from time
to time she had to lick up a tear with the point of her tongue, on the thin joy of the twilight.

Really the world was very beautiful. She fell to thinking of those Saturdays that she and her
mother, in the days when she was still at school, had spent on the Firth of Forth. Very often,
after Mrs. Melville had done her shopping and Ellen had made the beds, they packed a basket
with apples and sandwiches (for dinner out was a terrible price) and they took the tram down
the south spurs to Leith or Grantown to find a steamer. Each port was the dwelling-place of
romance. Leith was a squalid pack of black streets that debouched on a high brick wall delightfully
surmounted by mast-tops, and from every door there flashed the cutlass gleam of the splendid
sinister. Number 2, Sievering Street, was an opium den. It was a corner house with Nottingham
lace curtains and a massive brown door that was always closed. You never would have known it,
but that was what it was. And once Ellen and her mother had come back late and were taking
a short cut through the alleys to the terminus of the Edinburgh trams (one saved twopence by
not taking the Leith trams and had a sense of recovering the cost of the expedition), and were
half-way down a silent street when they heard behind them flippety-flop, flippety-flop, stealthy
and wicked as the human foot may be. They turned and saw a great black figure, humped but still
high, keeping step with them a yard or so behind. Several times they turned, terrified by that
tread, and could make nothing more of it, till the rays of a lamp showed them a tall Chinaman
with a flat yellow face and a slimy pigtail drooping with a dreadful waggish school-girlishness
over the shoulder of his blue nankin blouse; and long black eyes staring but unshining. They
were between the high blank walls of warehouses closed for the night. They dared not run. Flippety-flop,
flippety-flop, he came after them, always keeping step. Leith Walk was a yellow glow a long
way off at the end of the street; it clarified into naphtha jets and roaring salesmen and a
crowd that slowly flocked up and down the roadway and was channelled now and then by lumbering
lighted cars; it became a protecting jostle about them. Ellen turned and saw the Chinaman's
flat face creased with a grin. He had been savouring the women's terror under his tongue, sucking
unimaginable sweetness and refreshment from it. Mrs. Melville was shedding angry tears and
likening the Chinese to the Irish--a people of whom she had a low opinion--(Mr. Melville had
been an Irishman)--but Ellen felt much sympathy as one might bestow upon some disappointed
ogre in a fairy tale for this exiled Boxer who had tried to get a little homely pleasure. Ellen
found it not altogether Grantown's gain that it was wholly uninhabited by horror, being an
honest row of fishers' cottages set on a road beside the Firth to the west of Leith. Its wonder
was its pier, a granite road driving its rough blocks out into the tumbling seas, the least
urban thing in the world, that brought to the mind's eye men's bare chests and muscle-knotted
arms, round-mouthed sea-chanteys, and great sound bodies caught to a wholesome death in the
vicinity of upturned keels and foundered rust-red sails and the engulfing eternal sterilisation
of the salt green waves.

From either of these places they sailed across the Firth: an arm of the sea that could achieve
anything from an end-of-the-world desolation, when there was snow on the shores and the water
rolled black shining mountains, to a South Seasish bland and tidy presentation of white and
green islands enamelled on a blue channel under a smooth summer sky. Most often, for it was
the cheapest trip, they crossed to Aberlady, where the tall trees stood at the sea's edge,
and one could sit on seaweedy rocks in the shadow of green leaves. Last time they had gone
it had been one of the "fairs," and men and women were dancing on the lawns that lay here and
there among the wooded knolls. Ellen had sat with her feet in a pool and watched the dances
over her shoulder. "Mummie," she had said, "we belong to a nation which keeps all its lightness
in its feet," and Mrs. Melville had made a sharp remark like the ping of a mosquito about the
Irish. Sometimes they would walk along a lane by the beach to Burntisland. There was nothing
good about that except the name, and a queer resemblance to fortifications in the quays, which
one felt might at any moment be manned by dripping mermen at war with the landfolk. There they
would find a lurching, paintless, broad-bowed ferry, its funnel and metal work damascened by
rust; with the streamers of the sunset high to the north-west, and another tenderer sunset
swimming before their prow, spilling oily trails of lemon and rose and lilac on waters white
with the fading of the meridian skies, they would sail back to quays that mounted black from
troughs of gold.

She thought of it, still smiling; but the required ecstasy, that would reconcile her to her
hopeless life, did not come. She waited for it with a canny look as she did at home when she
held a match to the gas-ring to see if there was another shilling needed in the slot. The light
did not come. By every evidence of her sense she was in the completest darkness. But she did
not know what coin it was that would turn on the light again. Before there had been no fee
demanded, but just appreciation of her surroundings, and that she had always had in hand; even
to an extent that made her feel ridiculous to those persons, sufficiently numerous in Edinburgh,
who regarded their own lack of it as a sign of the wealth of inhibition known as common sense,
and hardly at ease on a country walk with anybody except her mother or her schoolfellow Rachael
Wing. She thought listlessly now of their day-long excited explorations of the Pentland Hills.
Why had that walk on Christmas Eve, two years ago, kept them happy for a term? They had just
walked between the snow that lay white on the hills and the snow that hung black in the clouds,
and had seen no living creature save the stray albatross that winged from peak to peak. She
thought without more zest of their cycle-rides; though there had been a certain grim pride
in squeezing forty miles a day out of the cycle which, having been won in a girls' magazine
competition, constantly reminded her of its gratuitous character by a wild capriciousness.
And there were occasions too which had been sanctified by political passion. There had been
one happy morning when Rachael and she had ridden past Prestonpans, where the fisher-folk sat
mending their nets on the beach, and they had eaten their lunch among the wild rose thickets
that tumbled down from the road to the sea. Rachael had raised it all to something on a much
higher level than an outing by munching vegetarian sandwiches and talking subversively, for
she too was a Suffragette and a Socialist, at the great nine-foot wall round Lord Wemyss's
estate, by which they were to cycle for some miles. She pointed out how its perfect taste and
avoidance of red brick and its hoggish swallowing of tracts of pleasant land symbolised the
specious charm and the thieving greed which were well known to be the attributes of the aristocracy.
Rachael was wonderful. She was an Atheist, too. When she was twelve she had decided to do without
God for a year, and it had worked. Ellen had not got as far as that. She thought religion rather
pretty and a great consolation if one was poor. Rachael was even poorer than Ellen, but she
had an unbreakable spirit and seemed to mind nothing in the world, not even that she never
had new clothes because she had two elder sisters. It had always seemed so strange that such
a clever girl couldn't make things with paper patterns as Ellen could, as Ellen had frequently
done in the past, as Ellen never wished to do again. She was filled with terror by the thought
that she should ever again pin brown paper out of Weldon's Fashions on to stuff that must not
on any account run higher than a shilling the yard; that she should slash with the big cutting-out
scissors just as Mrs. Melville murmured over her shoulder, "I doubt you've read the instructions
right...." What was the good? She was decaying. That was proven by the present current of her
thoughts, which had passed from the countryside, towards which she had always previously directed
her mind when she had desired it to be happy, as one moves for warmth into a southern-facing
room, and were now dwelling on the mean life of hopeless thrift she and her mother lived in
Hume Park Square. She recollected admiringly the radiance that had been hers when she was sixteen;
of the way she had not minded more than a wrinkle between the brows those Monday evenings when
she had to dodge among the steamy wet clothes hanging on the kitchen pulleys as she cooked
the supper, those Saturday nights when she and her mother had to wait for the cheap pieces
at the butcher's among a crowd that hawked and spat and made jokes that were not geniality
but merely a mental form of hawking and spitting; of the way that in those days her attention
used to leap like a lion on the shy beast Beauty hiding in the bush, the housewifely briskness
with which her soul took this beauty and simmered it in the pot of meditation into a meal that
nourished life for days. At the thought of the premature senility that had robbed her of these
accomplishments now that she was seventeen she began again to weep....

The door opened and Mr. Mactavish James lumbered in, treading bearishly on his soft slippers,
and rubbing the gold frame of his spectacles against his nose to allay the irritation they
had caused by their persistent pressure during the interview he had been holding with the representative
of another firm: an interview in which he had disguised his sense of his client's moral instability
by preserving the most impressive physical immobility. The air of the room struck cold on him,
and he went to the fireplace and put on some coal, and sat down on a high stool where he could
feel the warmth. He gloomed over it, pressing his hands on his thighs; decidedly Todd was in
the wrong over this right of way, and Menzies & Lawson knew it. He looked dotingly across at
Ellen, breathed "Well, well!"--that greeting by which Scot links himself to Scot in a mutual
consciousness of a prudent despondency about life. Age permitted him, in spite of his type,
to delight in her. In his youth he had turned his back on romance, lest it should dictate conduct
that led away from prosperity, or should alter him in some manner that would prevent him from
attaining that ungymnastic dignity which makes the respected townsman. He had meant from the
first to end with a paunch. But now wealth was inalienably his and Beauty could beckon him
on no strange pilgrimages, his soul retraced its steps and contemplated this bright thing as
an earth creature might creep to the mouth of its lair and blink at the sun. And there was
more than that to it. He loved her. He had never had enough to do with pitiful things (his
wife Elizabeth had been a banker's daughter), and this, child had come to him, that day in
June, so white, so weak, so chilled to the bone, for all the summer heat, by her monstrous
ill-usage....

He said, "Nelly, will your mother be feared if you stop and take a few notes for Mr. Philip
till eight? There is a chemist body coming through from the cordite works at Aberfay who can't
come in the day but Saturday mornings, and you ken Mr. Philip's away to London for the week-end
by the 8.30, so he's seeing him the night. Mr. Philip would be thankful if you'd stop."

"I will so, Mr. James," said Ellen.

"You're sure your mother'll not be feared?"

"What way would my mother be feared," said Ellen, "and me seventeen past?"

"There's many a lassie who's found being seventeen no protection from a wicked world." He emitted
some great Burns-night chuckles, and kicked the fire to a blaze.

She said sternly, "Take note, Mr. James, that I haven't done a hand's turn this hour or more,
and that not for want of asking for work. Dear knows I have my hand on Mr. Morrison's door-knob
half the day."

Mr. James got up to go. "You're a fierce hussy, and mean to be a partner in the firm before
you've done with us."

"If I were a man I would be that."

"Better than that for you, lassie, better than that. Wait till a good man comes by."

She snorted at the closing door, but felt that he had come near to defining what she wanted.
It was not a good man she needed, of course, but nice men, nice women. She had often thought
that of late. Sometimes she would sit up in bed and stare through the darkness at an imaginary
group of people whom she desired to be with--well-found people who would disclose themselves
to one another with vivacity and beautiful results; who in large lighted rooms would display
a splendid social life that had been previously nurtured by separate tender intimacies at hearths
that were more than grates and fenders, in private picture-galleries with wide spaces between
the pictures, and libraries adorned with big-nosed marble busts. She knew that that environment
existed for she had seen it. Once she had gone to a Primrose League picnic in the grounds of
an Edinburgh M.P.'s country home and the secretary had taken her up to the house. They had
waited in a high, long room with crossed swords on the walls wherever there were not bookshelves
or the portraits of men and women so proud that they had not minded being painted plain, and
there were French windows opening to a flagged terrace where one could lean on an ornate balustrade
and look over a declivity made sweet with many flowering trees to a wooded cliff laced by a
waterfall that seemed, so broad the intervening valley, to spring silently to the bouldered
river-bed below. On a white bearskin, in front of one of the few unnecessary fires she had
ever seen, slept a boar-hound. It was a pity that the books lying on the great round table
were mostly the drawings of Dana Gibson and that when the lady of the house came in to speak
to them she proved to be a lisping Jewess, but that could not dull the pearl of the spectacle.
She insisted on using the memory as a guarantee that there must exist, to occupy this environment,
that imagined society of thin men without an Edinburgh accent, of women who were neither thin
like her schoolmistresses nor fat like her schoolfellows' mothers and whose hair had no short
ends round the neck.

But sometimes it seemed likely, and in this sad twilight it seemed specially likely, that though
such people certainly existed they had chosen some other scene than Edinburgh, whose society
was as poor and restricted as its Zoo, perhaps for the same climatic reason. It was the plain
fact of the matter that the most prominent citizen of Edinburgh to-day was Mary Queen of Scots.
Every time one walked in the Old Town she had just gone by, beautiful and pale as though in
her veins there flowed exquisite blood that diffused radiance instead of ruddiness, clad in
the black and white that must have been a more solemn challenge, a more comprehensive announcement
of free dealings with good and evil, than the mere extravagance of scarlet could have been;
and wearing a string of pearls to salve the wound she doubtless always felt about her neck.
Ellen glowed at the picture as girls do at womanly beauty. Nobody of a like intensity had lived
here since. The Covenanters, the Jacobites, Sir Walter Scott and his fellows, had dropped nothing
in the pool that could break the ripples started by that stone, that precious stone, flung
there from France so long ago. The town had settled down into something that the tonic magic
of the place prevented being decay, but it was though time still turned the hour-glass, but
did it dreamingly, infatuated with the marvellous thing she had brought forth that now was
not. So greatly had the play declined in plot and character since Mary's time that for the
catastrophe of the present age there was nothing better than the snatching of the Church funds
from the U.F.'s by the Wee Frees. It appeared to her an indication of the quality of the town's
life that they spoke of their churches by initials just as the English, she had learned from
the Socialist papers, spoke of their trade unions. And for personalities there were innumerable
clergymen and Sir Thomas Gilzean, Edinburgh's romantic draper, who talked French with a facility
that his fellow townsmen suspected of being a gift acquired on the brink of the pit, and who
had a long wriggling waist which suggested that he was about to pick up the tails of his elegant
frock-coat and dance. He was light indeed, but not enough to express the lightness of which
life was capable; while the darker side of destiny was as inadequately represented by Æneas
Walkinshaw, the last Jacobite, whom at the very moment Ellen could see standing under the lamp-post
at the corner, in the moulting haberdashery of his wind-draggled kilts and lace ruffles, cramming
treasonable correspondence into a pillar-box marked G.R.... She wanted people to be as splendid
as the countryside, as noble as the mountains, as variable within the limits of beauty as the
Firth of Forth, and this was what they were really like. She wept undisguisedly.

II

"What ails you, Miss Melville?" asked Mr. Philip James. He had lit the gas and seen that she
was crying.

At first she said, "Nothing." But there grew out of her gratitude to this family a feeling
that it was necessary, or at least decent, that she should always answer them with the cleanest
candour. As one rewards the man who has restored a lost purse by giving him some of the coins
in it, so she shared with them, by the most exact explanation of her motives whenever they
were asked for, the self which they had saved. So she added, "It's just that I'm bored. Nothing
ever happens to me!"

Mr. Philip had hoped she was going to leave it at that "Nothing," and bore her a grudge for
her amplification at the same time that the way she looked when she made it swept him into
sympathy. Indeed, he always felt about the lavish gratitude with which Ellen laid her personality
at the disposal of the firm rather as the Englishman who finds the Chinaman whom he saved from
death the day before sitting on his verandah in the expectation of being kept for the rest
of his life that his rescuer has forced upon him. It was true that she was an excellent shorthand-typist,
but she vexed the decent grey by her vividness. The sight of her through an open door, sitting
at her typewriter in her blue linen overall, dispersed one's thoughts; it was as if a wireless
found its waves jammed by another instrument. Often he found himself compelled to abandon his
train of ideas and apprehend her experiences: to feel a little tired himself if she drooped
over her machine, to imagine, as she pinned on her tam-o'-shanter and ran down the stairs,
how the cold air would presently prick her smooth skin. Yet these apprehensions were quite
uncoloured by any emotional tone. It was simply that she was essentially conspicuous, that
one had to watch her as one watches a very tall man going through a crowd. Even now, instead
of registering disapproval at her moodiness, he was looking at her red hair and thinking how
it radiated flame through the twilight of her dark corner, although in the sunlight it always
held the softness of the dusk. That was characteristic of her tendency always to differ from
the occasion. He had once seen her at a silly sort of picnic where everybody was making a great
deal of noise and playing rounders, and she had sat alone under a tree. And once, as he was
walking along Princes Street on a cruel day when there was an easterly ha'ar blowing off the
Firth, she had stepped towards him out of the drizzle, not seeing him but smiling sleepily.
It was strange how he remembered all these things, for he had never liked her very much.

He put his papers on the table and sat down by the fire. "Well, what should happen? No news
is good news, I've heard!"

She continued to disclose herself to him without the impediment of shyness, for he was unattractive
to her because he had an Edinburgh accent and always carried an umbrella. He was so like hundreds
of young men in the town, dark and sleek-headed and sturdily under-sized, with an air of sagacity
and consciously shrewd eyes under a projecting brow, that it seemed like uttering one's complaint
before a jury or some other representative body. She believed, too, that he was not one of
the impeccable and happy to whom one dare not disclose one's need for pity, for she was sure
that the clipped speech that slid through his half-opened mouth was a sign that secretly he
was timid and ashamed. So she cried honestly, "I'm so dull that I'll die. You and Mr. James
are awfully good to me, and I can put up with Mr. Morrison, though he's a doited old thing,
and I like my work, but coming here in the morning and going home at night, day in and day
out, it drives me crazy. I don't know what's the matter with me, but I want to run away to
new places and see new people. This morning I was running to catch the tram and I saw the old
wife who lives in the wee house by the cycle shop had put a bit heather in a glass bottle at
the window, and do you know, I was near turning my back and going off to the Pentlands and
letting the work go hang!"

They were both law-abiding people. They saw the gravity of her case.

"Not that I want the Pentlands. Dear knows I love the place, but I want something more than
those old hills. I want to go somewhere right far away. The sight of a map makes me sick. And
then I hear a band play--not the pipes, they make me think of Walter Scott's poetry, which
I never could bear, but a band. I feel that if I followed it it would lead me somewhere that
I would like to go. And the posters. There's one at the Waverley station--Venice. I could tear
the thing down. Did you ever go to Italy, Mr. Philip?"

"No. I go with the girls to Germany every summer."

"My patience!" said Ellen bitterly. "The way the world is! The people who can afford to go
to Italy go to Germany. And I--I'll die if I don't get away."

"Och, I often feel like this," said Mr. Philip. "I just take a week-end off at a hydro."

"A hydro!" snorted Ellen. "It's something more like the French Revolution I'm wanting. Something
grand and coloured. Swords, and people being rescued, and things like that."

"There's nothing going on like that now," he said stolidly, "and we ought to be thankful for it."

"I know everything's over in Europe," she agreed sadly, "but there's revolutions in South America.
I've read about them in Richard Harding Davis. Did ever you read him? Mind you, I'm not saying
he's an artist, but the man has force. He makes you long to go."

"A dirty place," said Mr. Philip.

"What does that matter, where there's life? I feel--I feel"--she wrung her inky brown hands--"as
if I should die if something didn't happen at once: something big, something that would bang
out like the one o'clock gun up at the Castle. And nothing will. Nothing ever will!"

"Och, well," he comforted her, "you're young yet, you know."

"Young!" cried Ellen, and suddenly wept. If this was youth--!

He bent down and played with the fire-irons. It was odd how he didn't want to go away, although
she was in distress. "Some that's been in South America don't find it to their taste," he said.
"The fellow that's coming to-night wants to sell some property in Rio de Janeiro because he
doesn't mean to go back."

"Ah, how can he do that?" asked Ellen unsteadily. The tears she was too proud to wipe away
made her look like a fierce baby. "Property in Rio de Janeiro! It's like being related to someone
in 'Treasure Island.'"

"'Treasure Island!' Imph!" He had seen his father draw Ellen often enough to know how to do
it, though he himself would never have paid enough attention to her mental life to discover
it. "You're struck on that Robert Louis Stevenson, but he wasn't so much. My Aunt Phemie was
with him at Mr. Robert Thompson's school in Heriot Row, and she says he was an awful young
blackguard, playing with the keelies all he could and gossiping with the cabmen on the rank.
She wouldn't have a word to say to him, and grandfather would never ask him to the house, not
even when all the English were licking his boots. I'm not much on these writing chaps myself."
He made scornful noises and crossed his legs as though he had disposed of art.

"And who," asked Ellen, with temper, "might your Aunt Phemie be? There'll not be much in the
papers when she's laid by in Trinity Cemetery, I'm thinking! The impairtinence of it! All these
Edinburgh people ought to go on their knees and thank their Maker that just once, just once
in that generation, He let something decent come out of Edinburgh!" She turned away from him
and laid her cheek against the oak shutter.

Mr. Philip chuckled. When a woman did anything for itself, and not for its effect on the male,
it seemed to him a proof of her incapacity to look after herself, and he found incapacity in
women exciting and endearing. He watched her with a hard attention that was his kind of tenderness,
as she sat humped schoolgirlishly in her shapeless blue overall, averting her face from the
light but attempting a proud pose, and keeping her grief between her teeth as an ostler chews
a straw.

"He had a good time, the way he travelled in France and the South Seas. But he deserved it.
He wrote such lovely books. Ah," she said, listening to her own sombre interpretation of things
as to sad music, "it isn't just chance that some people had adventures and others hadn't. One
makes one's own fate. I have no fate because I'm too weak to make one." She looked down resentfully
on her hands, that for all her present fierceness and the inkstains of her daily industry lay
little things on her lap, and thought of Rachael Wing, who had so splendidly departed to London
to go on the stage. "But it's hard to be punished just for what you are."

