By the aid of that new and most powerful ally, Comparative Philology, Archæology has lately
made other great advances. By proofs exactly of the same linguistic kind as those by which
the modern Spanish, French, and other Latin dialects can be shown to have all radiated from
Rome as their centre, the old traditions of the eastern origin of all the chief nations of
Europe have been proved to be fundamentally true; for by evidence so "irrefragable" (to use
the expression of the Taylorian professor of modern languages at Oxford), that "not an English
jury could now-a-days reject it," Philological Archæology has shown that of the three great
families of mankind--the Semitic, the Turanian, and the Aryan--this last, the Aryan, Japhetic,
or Indo-European race, had its chief home about the centre of Western Asia;--that betimes there
issued thence from its paternal hearths, and wended their way southward, human swarms that
formed the nations of Persia and Hindustan;--that at distant and different, and in some cases
earlier periods, there hived off from the same parental stock other waves of population, which
wandered westward, and formed successively the European nations of the Celts, the Teutons,
the Italians, the Greeks, and the Sclaves;--and that while each exodus of this western emigration,
which followed in the wake of its fellow, drove its earliest predecessor before it in a general
direction further and further towards the setting sun, at the same time some aboriginal, and
probably Turanian races, which previously inhabited portions of Europe, were gradually pushed
and pressed aside and upwards, by the more powerful and encroaching Aryans, into districts
either so sterile or so mountainous and strong, that it was too worthless or too difficult
to follow them further--their remnants being represented at the present day by the Laps, the
Basques, and the Esths. Philological Archæology has further demonstrated that the vast populations
which now stretch from the mouth of the Ganges to the Pentland Firth,--sprung, as they are,
with a few exceptions only, from the same primitive Aryan stock,--all use words which, though
phonetically changed, are radically identical for many matters, as for the nearest relationships
of family life, for the naming of domestic animals, and other common objects. Some of these
archaic words indicate, by their hoary antiquity, the original pastoral employment and character
of those that formed the parental stock in our old original Asiatic home; the special term,
for example (the "pasu" of the old Sanskrit or Zend), which signified "private" property among
the Aryans, and which we now use under the English modifications, "peculiar" and "pecuniary"--primarily
meaning "flocks;"[9] the Sanskrit word for Protector, and ultimately for the king himself,
"go-pa," being the old word for cowherd, and consecutively for chief herdsman; while the endearing
name of "daughter" (the duhitar of the Sanskrit, the [Greek: thygatêr] of the Greek), as applied
in the leading Indo-European languages to the female children of our households, is derived
from a verb which shows the original signification of the appellation to have been the "milker"
of the cows. At the same time the most ancient mythologies and superstitions, and apparently
even the legends and traditions of the various and diversified Indo-European races, appear
also, the more they are examined, to betray more and more of a common parentage. Briefly, and
in truth, then, Philological Archæology proves that the Saxon and the Persian, the Scandinavian
and the Greek, the Icelander and the Italian, the fair-skinned Scottish Highlander, and his
late foe, the swarthy Bengalee, are all distant, very distant, cousins, whose ancestors were
brothers that parted company with each other long, long ages ago, on the plains of Iran.

Lastly, to close this too long, and yet too rapid and imperfect sketch of some of the work
performed by modern inductive Archæology, let me merely here add,--for the matter is too important
to omit,--that, principally since the commencement of this century, Archæology has sedulously
sat down among the old and forbidding stores of musty, and often nearly illegible manuscripts,
charters, cartularies, records, letters, and other written documents, that have been accumulating
for hundreds of years in the public and private collections of Europe, and has most patiently
and laboriously culled from them annals and facts having the most direct and momentous bearing
upon the acts and thoughts of our mediæval forefathers, and upon the events and persons of
these mediæval times. By means of this last type of work, the researches of the antiquary have
to a wonderful degree both purified and extended the history of this and of the other kingdoms
of Europe. These researches have further, and in an especial manner, thrown a new flood of
light upon the inner and domestic life of our ancestors, and particularly upon the conditions
of the middle and lower grades of society in former times,--objects ever of primary moment
to the researches of Archæology in its services, as the workman and the pioneer of history.
For, truly, human history, as it has been hitherto usually composed, has been too often written
as if human chronicles ought to detail only the deeds of camps and courts--as if the number
of men murdered on particular battle-fields, and the intrigues and treasons perpetrated in
royal and lordly antechambers, were the sum total of actual knowledge which it was of any moment
to transmit from one generation of men to another. In gathering, however, from the records
of the past his materials for the true philosophy of history, the archæologist finds--and is
now teaching the public to find--as great an attraction in studying the arts of peace as in
studying the arts of war; for in his eyes the life, and thoughts, and faith of the merchant,
and craftsman, and churl, are as important as those of the knight, and nobleman, and prince--with
him the peasant is as grand and as genuine a piece of antiquity as the king.

Small in extent, scant in population, and spare in purse, as Scotland confessedly is, yet,
in the cultivation of Archæology she has in these modern times by no means lagged behind the
other and greater kingdoms of Europe. This observation is attested by the rich and valuable
Museum of Scottish antiquities which this Society has gathered together--a Museum which, exclusively
of its large collection of foreign coins, now numbers above 7000 specimens, for nearly 1000
of which we stand indebted to the enlightened zeal and patriotic munificence of one Scottish
gentleman, Mr. A. Henry Rhind of Sibster. The same fact is attested also by the highly valuable
character of the systematic works on Scottish Archæology which have been published of late
years by some of our colleagues, such as the masterly Pre-historic Annals of Scotland, by Professor
Daniel Wilson; the admirable volume on Scotland in the Middle Ages, by Professor Cosmo Innes;
and the delightful Domestic Annals of Scotland, by Mr. Robert Chambers. The essays also, and
monographs on individual subjects in Scottish Archæology, published by Mr. Laing, Lord Neaves,
Mr. Skene, Mr. Stuart, Mr. Robertson, Mr. Fraser, Captain Thomas, Mr. Burton, Mr. Napier, Mr.
M'Kinlay, Mr. M'Lauchlan, Dr. Wise, Dr. J.A. Smith, Mr. Drummond, etc., all strongly prove
the solid and successful interest which the subject of Scottish Archæology has in recent times
created in this city. The recent excellent town and county histories published by Dr. Peter
Chalmers, Messrs. Irving, Jeffrey, Jervise, Pratt, Black, Miller, etc., afford evidences to
the same effect. Nor can I forget in such an enumeration the two complete Statistical Accounts
of Scotland. But if I were asked to name any one circumstance, as proving more than another
the attention lately awakened among our countrymen by antiquarian inquiries, I would point,
with true patriotic pride, to the numerous olden manuscript chronicles of Scotland, of Scottish
towns, and Scottish monasteries, institutions, families, and persons, which have been printed
within the last forty years--almost all of them having been presented as free and spontaneous
contributions to Scottish Archæology and History by the members of the Bannatyne, the Abbotsford,
the Maitland, and the Spalding Clubs; and the whole now forming a goodly series of works extending
to not less than three hundred printed quarto volumes.

But let us not cheat and cozen ourselves into idleness and apathy by reflecting and rejoicing
over what has been done. For, after all, the truth is, that Scottish Archæology is still so
much in its infancy, that it is only now beginning to guess its powers, and feel its deficiencies.
It has still no end of lessons to learn, and perhaps some to unlearn, before it can manage
to extract the true metal of knowledge from the ore and dross of exaggeration in which many
of its inquiries have become enveloped. At this present hour we virtually know far less of
the Archæology and history of Scotland ten or fifteen centuries ago than we know of the Archæology
and history of Etruria, Egypt, or Assyria, twenty-five or thirty centuries ago.

In order to obtain the light which is required to clear away the dark and heavy mists which
thus obscure the early Archæology of Scotland, how should we proceed? In the pursuits and investigations
of Archæology, as of other departments of science, there has never yet been, and never will
be discovered, any direct railway or royal road to the knowledge which we are anxious to gain,
but which we are inevitably doomed to wait for and to work for. The different branches of science
are Gordian knots, the threads of which we can only hope to unwind and evolve by cautious assiduity,
and slow, patient industry. Their secrets cannot be summarily cut open and exposed by the sword
of any son of Philip. But, in our daydreams, it is not unpleasant sometimes to imagine the
possibility of such a feat. It was, as we all know, very generally believed, in distant antiquarian
times, that occasionally dead men could be induced to rise, and impart all sorts of otherwise
unattainable information to the living. This creed, however, has not been limited to those
ancient times, for, in our own days, many sane persons still profess to believe in the possibility
of summoning the spirits of the departed from the other world back to this sublunary sphere.
When they do so, they have always hitherto, as far as I have heard, encouraged these spirits
to perform such silly juggling tricks, or requested them to answer such trivial and frivolous
questions, as would seem to my humble apprehension to be almost insulting to the grim dignity
and solemn character of any respectable and intelligent ghost. If, like Owen Glendower, or
Mr. Home, I had the power to "call spirits from the vasty deep," and if the spirits answered
the call, I--being a practical man--would fain make a practical use of their presence. Methinks
I should feel grossly tempted, for example, to ask such of them as had the necessary foreknowledge,
to rap out for me, in the first instance, the exact state of the English funds, or of the London
stock and share-list, a week or a month hence; for such early information would, I opine--if
the spirits were true spirits--be rather an expeditious and easy mode of filling my coffers,
or the coffers of any man who had the good sense of plying these spiritual intelligences with
one or two simple and useful questions. If, however, the spirits refused to answer such golden
interrogatories as involving matters too mercenary and not sufficiently ghostly in their character,
then I certainly should next ask them--and I would of course select very ancient spirits for
the purpose--hosts of questions regarding the state of society, religion, the arts, etc., at
the time when they themselves were living denizens of this earth. Suppose, for a moment, that
our Secretaries, on summoning the next meeting of this Society, had the power of announcing
in their billets that, by "some feat of magic mystery," a very select and intelligent deputation
of ancient Britons and Caledonians, Picts, Celts, and Scots, and perhaps of Scottish Turanians,
were to be present in our Museum--(certainly the most appropriate room in the kingdom for such
a reunion)--for a short sederunt, somewhere between twilight and cock-crowing, to answer any
questions which the Fellows might choose to ply them with, what an excitement would such an
announcement create! How eagerly would some of our Fellows look forward to the results of one
or two such "Hours with the Mystics." And what a battery of quick questions would be levelled
at the members of this deputation on all the endless problems involved in Scottish Archæology.
I think we may readily, and yet pretty certainly, conjecture a few of the questions, on our
earlier antiquities alone, that would be put by various members that I might name, as:--

What is the signification of the so-called "crescent" and "spectacle" ornaments, and of the
other unique symbols that are so common upon the 150 and odd ancient Sculptured Stones scattered
over the north-eastern districts of Scotland?

What is the true reading of the old enigmatic inscriptions upon the Newton and St. Vigean's
stones, and of the Oghams on the stones of Logie, Bressay, Golspie, etc.?

Had Solinus Polyhistor, in the fourth century, any ground for stating that an ancient Ulyssean
altar, written with Greek letters, existed in the recesses of Caledonia?

Who were Vetta, Victus, Memor, Loinedinus, Liberalis, Florentius, Mavorius, etc., whose names
are recorded on the Romano-British monuments at Kirkliston, Yarrow, Kirkmadrine, etc., and
what is the date of these monuments?

By what people was constructed the Devil's Dyke, which runs above fifty miles in length from
Loch Ryan into Nithsdale?

When, and for what purpose, was the Catrail dug?

Was it on the line of the Catrail, or of the Roman wall between the Forth and Clyde, or on
what other ground, that there was fought the great battle or siege of Cattraeth or Kaltraez,
which Aneurin sings of in his Gododin, and where, among the ranks of the British combatants,
were "three hundred and sixty-three chieftains wearing the golden torcs" (some specimens, of
which might yet perhaps be dug up on the battle-field by our Museum Committee, seeing three
only of these chiefs escaped alive); and how was the "bewitching mead" brewed, that Aneurin
tells us was far too freely partaken of by his British countrymen before and during this fierce
struggle with the Saxon foe?

Is the poet Aneurin the same person as our earliest native prose historian Gildas, the two
appellations being relatively the Cymric and Saxon names of the same individual? Or were they
not two of the sons or descendants of Caw of Cwm Cawlwyd, that North British chief whose miraculous
interview with St. Cadoc near Bannawc (Stirlingshire?) is described in the life of that Welsh
saint?

Of what family and rank was the poet--Merddin Wyllt--or "Merlin the Wild," who, wearing the
chieftain's golden torc, fought at the battle of Arderydd, about A.D. 573, against Rhydderch
Hael, that king of Alcluith or Dumbarton, who was the friend of St. Columba, and "the champion
of the (Christian) faith," as Merlin himself styles him? And when that victory was apparently
the direct means of establishing this Christian king upon the throne of Strathclyde, and the
indirect means which led to the recall of St. Kentigern from St. Asaph's to Glasgow, how is
it that the Welsh Triads talk of it enigmatically as a battle for a lark's nest?

If Ossian is not a myth, when and where did he live and sing? Was he not an Irish Gael? And
could any member of the deputation give us any accurate information about our old nursery friend
Fingal or Fin Mac Coul? Was he really, after all, not greater, or larger, or any other than
simply a successful and reforming general in the army of King Cormac of Tara, and the son-in-law
of that monarch of Ireland?

From what part of Pictland did King Cormac obtain, in the third century, the skilled mill-wright,
Mac Lamha, to build for him that first water-mill which he erected in Ireland, on one of the
streams of Tara? And is it true, as some genealogists in this earthly world believe, that the
lineal descendants of this Scottish or Pictish mill-wright are still millers on the reputed
site of this original Irish water-mill?

The apostate Picts (Picti apostati) who along with the Scots are spoken of by St. Patrick in
his famous letter against Coroticus, as having bought for slaves some of the Christian converts
kidnapped and carried off by that chief from Ireland, were they inhabitants of Galloway, or
of our more northern districts? And was the Irish sea not very frequently a "middle passage"
in these early days, across which St. Patrick himself and many others were carried from their
native homes and sold into slavery?

Was it a Pictish or Scottish, a British or a Roman architect that built "Julius' howff," at
Stenhouse (Stone-house) on the Carron, and what was its use and object?

Were our numerous "weems," or underground houses, really used as human abodes, and were they
actually so very dark, that when one of the inmates ventured on a joke, he was obliged--as
suggested by "Elia"--to handle his neighbour's cheek to feel if there was any resulting smile
playing upon it?

When, and by whom were reared the Titanic stone-works on the White Caterthun, and the formidable
stone and earth forts and walls on the Brown Caterthun, on Dunsinane, on Barra, on the Barmekyn
of Echt, on Dunnichen, on Dunpender, and on the tops of hundreds of other hills in Scotland?

How, and when, were our Vitrified Forts built? Was the vitrification of the walls accidental,
or was it not rather intentional, as most of us now believe? In particular, who first constructed,
and who last occupied the remarkable Vitrified Forts of Finhaven in Angus, and of the hill
of Noath in Strathbogie? Was not the Vitrified Fort of Craig-Phadric, near Inverness, the residence
of King Brude, the son of Meilochon, in the sixth century; and if so, is it true, as stated
in the Irish Life of St. Columba, that its gates were provided with iron locks?

When, by whom, and for what object, were the moats of Urr, Hawick, Lincluden, Biggar, and our
other great circular earth mounds of the same kind, constructed? Were they used for judicial
and legal purposes, like the old Things of Scandinavia; and as the Tinwald Mount in the island
of Man is used to this day? And were not some of them military or sepulchral works?

Who fashioned the terraces at Newlands in Tweeddale; and what was the origin of the many hillside
terraces scattered over the country?

What is the age of the rock-caves of Ancrum, Hawthornden, etc., and were they primarily used
as human habitations?

The sea-cave at Aldham on the Firth of Forth--when opened in 1831, with its paved floor strewed
with charred wood, animal bones, limpet-shells, and apparently with a rock-altar at its mouth,
having its top marked with fire, ashes adhering to its side, and two infants' skeletons lying
at its base--was it a human habitation, or a Pagan temple?

What races sleep in the chambered barrows and cairns of Clava, Yarrows, Broigar, and in the
many other similar old Scottish cities and houses of the dead?

By whom and for what purpose or purposes were the megalithic circles at Stennis, Callernish,
Leys, Achnaclach, Crichie, Kennethmont, Midmar, Dyce, Kirkmichael, Deer, Kirkbean, Lochrutton,
Torhouse, etc., etc., reared?

What were the leading peculiarities in the religious creed, faith, and festivals of Broichan
and the other Caledonian or Pictish Magi before the introduction of Christianity?

When Coifi, the pagan high-priest of Edwin, the king of Northumbria and the Lothians, was converted
to Christianity by Paulinus, in A.D. 627, he destroyed, according to Bede, the heathen idols,
and set fire to the heathen temples and altars; but what was the structure of the pagan temples
here in these days, that he could burn them,--while at the same time they were so uninclosed,
that men on horseback could ride into them, as Coifi himself did after he had thrown in the
desecrating spear?

Was not our city named after this Northumbrian Bretwalda, "Edwin's-burgh?" Or was the Eiddyn
of which Aneurin speaks before the time of Edwin, and the Dinas Eiddyn that was one of the
chief seats of Llewddyn Lueddog (Lew or Loth), the grandfather of St. Kentigern or Mungo of
Glasgow, really our own Dun Edin? Or if the Welsh term "Dinas" does not necessarily imply the
high or elevated position of the place, was it Caer Eden (Cariden, or Blackness), at the eastern
end of the Roman Wall, on the banks of the Forth?

Did our venerable castle rock obtain the Welsh name of Din or Dun Monaidh, from its being "the
fortress of the hill," and was its other Cymric appellation Agnedh, connected with its ever
having been given as a marriage-portion (Agwedh)? Or did its old name of Maiden Castle, or
Castrum Puellarum, not rather originate in its olden use as a female prison, or as a school,
or a nunnery?

And is it true, as asserted by Conchubhranus, that the Irish lady Saint, Darerca or Monnine,
founded, late in the fifth century, seven churches (or nunneries?) in Scotland, on the hills
of Dun Edin, Dumbarton, Stirling, Dunpelder, and Dundevenal, at Lanfortin near Dundee, and
at Chilnacase in Galloway?

When, and by whom, were the Round Towers of Abernethy, Brechin, and Eglishay built? Were there
not in Scotland or its islands other such "turres rotundae mirâ arte constructae," to borrow
the phrase of Hector Boece regarding the Brechin tower?

If St. Patrick was, as some of his earliest biographers aver, a Strathclyde Briton, born about
A.D. 387 at Nempthur (Nemphlar, on the Clyde?) and his father Calphurnius was, as St. Patrick
himself states in his Confession, a deacon, and his grandfather Potitus a priest, then he belonged
to a family two generations of which were already office-bearers in Scotland in the Christian
Church;--but were there many, or any such families in Scotland before St. Ninian built his
stone church at Whithern about A.D. 397, or St. Palladius, the missionary of Pope Celestine,
died about A.D. 431, in the Mearns? And was it a mere rhetorical flourish, or was there some
foundation for the strong and distinct averment of the Latin father Tertullian, that, when
he wrote, about the time of the invasion of Scotland by Severus (circa A.D. 210), there were
places in Britain beyond the limits of the Roman sway already subject to Christ?

When Dion Cassius describes this invasion of Scotland by Severus, and the Roman Emperor's loss
of 50,000 men in the campaign, does he not indulge in "travellers' tales," when he further
avers that our Caledonian ancestors were such votaries of hydropathy that they could stand
in their marshes immersed up to the neck in water for live-long days, and had a kind of prepared
homoeopathic food, the eating of a piece of which, the size of a bean, entirely prevented all
hunger and thirst?

Cæsar tells us that dying the skin blue with woad was a practice common among our British ancestors
some 1900 years ago;--are Claudian and Herodian equally correct in describing the very name
of Picts as being derived from a system of painting or tattooing the skin, that was in their
time as fashionable among some of our Scottish forefathers, as it is in our time in New Zealand,
and among the Polynesians?

According to Cæsar, the Britons wore a moustache on the upper lip, but shaved the rest of the
beard; and the sole stone--fortunately a fragment of ancient sculpture--which has been saved
from the ruins of the old capital of the Picts at Forteviot, shows a similar practice among
them. But what did they shave with? Were their razors of bronze, or iron, or steel? And where,
and by whom, were they manufactured?

Was the state of civilisation and of the arts among the Caledonians, when Agricola invaded
them, about A.D. 80 or 81, as backward as some authorities have imagined, seeing that they
were already so skilled in, for example, the metallurgic arts, as to be able to construct,
for the purposes of war,--chariots, and consequently chariot-wheels, long swords, darts, targets,
etc.?

As the swords of the Caledonians in the first century were, according to Tacitus, long, large,
and blunt at the point, and hence in all probability made of iron, whence came the sharp-pointed
leaf-shaped bronze swords so often found in Scotland, and what is the place and date of their
manufacture? Were they earlier? And what is the real origin of the large accumulation of spears
and other instruments of bronze, some whole, and others twisted, as if half-melted with heat,
which, with human bones, deer and elk-horns, were dredged up from Duddingston Loch about eighty
years ago, and constituted, it may be said, the foundation of our Museum? Was there an ancient
bronze-smith shop in the neighbourhood; or were these not rather the relics of a burned crannoge
that had formerly existed in this lake, within two miles of the future metropolis of Scotland?

Could the deputation inform us where we might find, buried and concealed in our muirs or mosses,
and obtain for our Museum some interesting antiquarian objects which we sadly covet--such as
a specimen or two, for instance, of those Caledonian spears described by Dion, that had a brazen
apple, sounding when struck, attached to their lower extremity? or one of those statues of
Mercury that, Cæsar says, were common among the Western Druids? or one of the covini mentioned
by Tacitus--(for we are anxious to know if its wheels were of iron or bronze; how these wheels
made, as Cæsar tells us the wheels of the British war-chariots made, a loud noise in running;
and whether or not they had, as some authorities maintain, scythes or long swords affixed to
their axles)? or where we might dig up another specimen of such ancient and engraved silver
armour as was some years ago discovered at Norrie's Law, in Fife, and unfortunately melted
down by the jeweller at Cupar? or could any of the deputation refer us to any spot where we
might have a good chance of finding a concealed example of such glass goblets as were, according
to Adamnan, to be met with in the royal palace of Brude, king of the Picts, when St. Columba
visited him, in A.D. 563, in his royal fort and hall (munitio, aula regalis) on the banks of
the Ness?

Whence came King "Cruithne," with his seven sons, and the Picts? Were they of Gothic descent
and tongue, as Mr. Jonathan Oldbuck maintained in rather a notorious dispute in the parlour
at Monkbarns? or were they "genuine Celtic," as Sir Arthur Wardour argued so stoutly on the
same memorable occasion?

Were the first Irish or Dalriadic Gaeidhil or Scots who took possession of Argyll (i.e., Airer-Gaeidheal,
or the district of the Gaeidhel), and who subsequently gave the name of Scot-land to the whole
kingdom, the band of emigrants that crossed from Antrim about A.D. 506 under the leadership
of Fergus and the other sons of Erc; or, as the name of "Scoti" recurs more than once in the
old sparse notices of the tribes of the kingdom before this date, had not an antecedent colony,
under Cairbre Riada, as stated by Bede, already passed over and settled in Cantyre a century
or two before?

Our Reformed British Parliament is still so archæological as to listen, many times each session,
to Her Majesty, or Her Majesty's Commissioners, assenting to their bills, by pronouncing a
sentence of old and obsolete Norman French--a memorial in its way of the Norman Conquest; and
our State customs are so archæological that, when Her Majesty, and a long line of her illustrious
predecessors, have been crowned in Westminster Abbey, the old Scottish coronation-stone, carried
off in A.D. 1296 by Edward I. from Scone, and which had been previously used for centuries
as the coronation-stone of the Scotic, and perhaps of the Irish, or even the Milesian race
of kings, has been placed under their coronation-chair--playing still its own archaic part
in this gorgeous state drama. But is this Scone or Westminster coronation-stone really and
truly--as it is reputed to be by some Scottish historians--the famous Lia Fail of the kings
of Ireland, that various old Irish writings describe as formerly standing on the Hill of Tara,
near the Mound of the Hostages? Or does not the Lia Fail--"the stone that roared under the
feet of each king that took possession of the throne of Ireland"--remain still on Tara--(though
latterly degraded to the office of a grave-stone)--as is suggested by the distinguished author
of the History and Antiquities of Tara Hill? If any of our deputies from ghostdom formerly
belonged to the court of Fergus MacErc, or originally sailed across with him in his fleet of
currachs, perhaps they will be so good as tell us if in reality the royal or any other of the
accompanying skin-canoes was ballasted then or subsequently with a sacred stone from Ireland,
for the coronation of our first Dalriadic king; and especially would we wish it explained to
us how such a precious monument as the Lia Fail of Tara was or could be smuggled away by such
a small tribe as the Dalriadic Scots at first were? Perhaps it would be right and civil to
tell the deputation at once, that the truth is we are anxious to decide the knotty question
as to whether the opinions of Edward I. or of Dr. Petrie are the more correct in regard to
this "Stone of Fate?" Or if King Edward was right politically, is Dr. Petrie right archæologically,
in his views on this subject? In short, does the Lia Fail stand at the present day--as is generally
believed--in the vicinity of the Royal Halls of Westminster, or in the vicinity of the Royal
Halls of Tara?

What ancient people, destitute apparently of metal tools and of any knowledge of mortar, built
the gigantic burgs or duns of Mousa, Hoxay, Glenelg, Carloway, Bragar, Kildonan, Farr, Rogart,
Olrick, etc., with galleries and chambers in the thickness of their huge uncemented walls?
Is it true, as the Irish bardic writers allege, that some of the race of the Firbolgs escaped,
after the battle at one of the Moyturas to the Western Islands and shores of Scotland, and
that thence, after several centuries, they were expelled again by the Picts, after the commencement
of the Christian era, and subsequently returned to the coast of Galway, and built, or rebuilt,
there and then, the great analogous burgs of Dun Ængus, Dun Conchobhair, etc., in the Irish
isles of Aran?[10]

What is the signification of those mysterious circles formed of diminishing concentric rings
which are found engraved, sometimes on rocks outside an old aboriginal village or camp, as
at Rowtin Lynn and Old Bewick; sometimes on the walls of underground chambers, as in the Holm
of Papa Westray, and in the island of Eday; sometimes on the walls of a chambered tumulus,
as at Pickaquoy in Orkney; or on the interior of the lid of a kistvaen, as at Craigie Hall,
near Edinburgh, and probably also at Coilsfield and Auchinlary; or on a so-called Druidical
stone, as on "Long Meg" at Penrith?

Is it true that a long past era--and, if so, at what era--our predecessors in this old Caledonia
had nothing but tools and implements of stone, bone, and wood? Are there no gravel-beds in
Scotland in which we could probably find large deposits of the celts and other stone weapons--with
bored and worked deer-horns, of that distant stone-age--such as have been discovered on the
banks of the Somme and the Loire in France? And were the people of that period in Scotland
Celtic or pre-Celtic?

When the first wave of Celtic emigrants arrived in Scotland, did they not find a Turanian or
Hamitic race already inhabiting it, and were those Scottish streams, lakes, etc., which bear,
or have borne, in their composition, the Euskarian word Ura (water)--as the rivers Urr, Orr,
and Ury, lochs Ur, Urr, and Orr, Urr-quhart, Cath-Ures, Or-well, Or-rea, etc., named by these
Turanian aborigines?

We know that in Iona, ten or twelve centuries ago, Greek was written, though we do not know
if the Iona library possessed--what Queen Mary had among the sixteen Greek volumes[11] in her
library--a copy of Herodotus; but we are particularly anxious to ascertain if the story told
by Herodotus of Rhampsinitus, and the robbery of his royal treasury by that "Shifty Lad" "the
Master Thief,"[12] was in vogue as a popular tale among the Scottish Gaels or Britons in the
oldest times? The tale is prevalent in different guises from India to Scotland and Scandinavia
among the Aryans, or alleged descendants of Japhet; Herodotus heard it about twenty-three centuries
ago in Egypt, and consequently (according, at least, to some high philologists), among the
alleged descendants of Shem; and could any Scottish Turanians, as alleged descendants of Ham,
in the deputation, tell us whether the tale was also a favourite with them and their forefathers?
For if so, then, in consonance with the usual reasoning on this and other popular tales, the
story must have been known in the Ark itself, as the sons of Noah separated soon after leaving
it, and yet all their descendants were acquainted with this legend. But have these and other
such simple tales not originated in many different places, and among many different people,
at different times; and have they not an appearance of similarity, merely because, in the course
of their development, the earliest products of the human fancy, as well as of the human hand,
are always more or less similar under similar circumstances?

Or perhaps, passing from more direct interrogatories, we might request some of the deputation
to leave with us a retranslation of that famous letter preserved by Bede, which Abbot Ceolfrid
addressed about A.D. 715 to Nectan III., King of the Picts, and which the venerable monk of
Jarrow tells us was, immediately after its receipt by the Pictish King and court, carefully
interpreted into their own language? or to be so good as write down a specimen of the Celtic
or Pictish songs that happened to be most popular some twelve or fourteen centuries ago? or
describe to us the limits at different times of the kingdoms of the Strathclyde Britons and
Northumbrians, and of the Picts and Dalriadic Scots? or fill up the sad gaps in Mr. Innes'
map of Scotland in the tenth century, containing, as it does, the names of one river only,
and some thirteen Scottish church establishments and towns; or tell us where the "urbs Giudi"
and the Pictish "Niduari" of Bede were placed, and why Ængus the Culdee speaks (about A.D.
800) of Cuilenross, or Culross, as placed in Strath-h-Irenn in the Comgalls, between Slieve-n-Ochil
and the Sea of Giudan? or identify for us the true sites of the numerous rivers, tribes, divisions,
and towns--or merely perhaps stockaded or rathed villages--which Ptolemy in the second century
enters in his geographical description of North Britain? or particularise the precise bounds
of the Meatæ and Attacotti, and of the two Pictish nations mentioned by Ammianus Marcellinus,
namely, the Dicaledonæ and Vecturiones? or trace out for us the course of Agricola's campaigns
in Scotland, especially marking the exact site of the great victory of the Mons Grampius, and
thus deciding at once and for ever whether the two enormous cairns placed above the moor of
Ardoch cover the remains of the 10,000 slain; or whether the battle was fought at Dealgin Ross,
or at Findochs, or at Inverpeffery, or at Urie Hill in the Mearns, or at Mormond in Buchan,
or at the "Kaim of Kinprunes?" which last locality, however, was, it must be confessed, rather
summarily and decisively put out of Court some time ago by the strong personal evidence of
Edie Ochiltree.

       *       *       *       *       *

If these, and some thousand-and-one similar questions regarding the habits, arts, government,
language, etc., of our Primæval and Mediæval Forefathers could be at once summarily and satisfactorily
answered by any power of "gramarye," then the present and the future Fellows of the Society
of Antiquaries of Scotland would be saved an incalculable amount of difficult investigation
and hard work. But unfortunately I, for one at least, have no belief that any human power can
either unsphere the spirits of the dead for a night's drawing-room amusement, or seduce the
"wraiths" of our ancestors to "revisit the glimpses of the moon" even for such a loyal and
patriotic object as the furtherance of Scottish Archæology. Nevertheless I doubt not, at the
same time, that many of these supposed questions on the dark points of Scottish antiquities
will yet betimes be answered more or less satisfactorily. But the answers, if ever obtained,
will be obtained by no kind of magic except the magic of accumulated observations, and strict
stern facts;--by no necromancy except the necromancy of the cautious combination, comparison,
and generalisation of these facts;--by no enchantment, in short, except that special form of
enchantment for the advancement of every science which the mighty and potent wizard--Francis
Bacon--taught to his fellow-men, when he taught them the spell-like powers of the inductive
philosophy.

The data and facts which Scottish antiquaries require to seek out and accumulate for the future
furtherance of Scottish Archæology, lie in many a different direction, waiting and hiding for
our search after them. On some few subjects the search has already been keen, and the success
correspondingly great. Let me specify one or two instances in illustration of this remark.

As a memorable example, and as a perfect Baconian model for analogous investigations on other
corresponding topics--in the way of the full and careful accumulation of all ascertainable
premises and data before venturing to dogmatise upon them--let me point to the admirable work
of Mr. Stuart on the Sculptured Stones of Scotland--an almost national work, which, according
to Mr. Westwood (the highest living authority on such a subject), is "one of the most remarkable
contributions to Archæology which has ever been published in this or any other country."

"Crannoges"--those curious lake-habitations, built on piles of wood, or stockaded islands,--that
Herodotus describes in lake Prasias, five or six centuries before the Christian era, constituting
dwellings there which were then impregnable to all the military resources of a Persian army,--that
Hippocrates tells us were also the types of habitation employed in his day by the Phasians,
who sailed to them in single-tree canoes,--that in the same form of houses erected upon tall
wooden piles, are still used at the present day as a favourite description of dwelling in the
creeks and rivers running into the Straits of Malacca, and on the coasts of Borneo and New
Guinea, etc., and the ruins of which have been found in numerous lakes in Ireland, England,
Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, etc.;--Crannoges, I say, have been searched for and found also
in various lochs in our own country; and the many curious data ascertained with regard to them
in Scotland will be given in the next volume of our Society's proceedings by Mr. Joseph Robertson,
a gentleman whom we all delight to acknowledge as pre-eminently entitled to wield amongst us
the pen of the teacher and master in this as in other departments of Scottish antiquities.

Most extensive architectural data, sketches, and measurements, regarding many of the remains
of our oldest ecclesiastical buildings in Scotland (including some early Irish Churches, with
stone roofs and Egyptian doors, that still stand nearly entire in the seclusion of our Western
Islands), have been collected by the indomitable perseverance and industry of Mr. Muir; and
when the work which that most able ecclesiologist has now in the press is published, a great
step will doubtless be made in this neglected department of Scottish antiquities.

In addition, however, to the assiduous collection of all ascertainable facts regarding the
existing remains of our sculptured stones, our crannoges, and our early ecclesiastical buildings,
there are many other departments of Scottish antiquities urgently demanding, at the hands of
the numerous zealous antiquaries scattered over the country, full descriptions and accurate
drawings of such vestiges of them as are still left--as, for example:--

     I. Our ancient Hill-forts of Stone and Earth.
    II. Our old cyclopic Burgs and Duns.
   III. Our primæval Towns, Villages, and Raths.
    IV. Our Weems or Underground Houses.
     V. Our Pagan sepulchral Barrows, Cairns, and Cromlechs.
    VI. Our Megalithic Circles and Monoliths.
   VII. Our early Inscribed Stones; etc.

Good and trustworthy accounts of individual specimens, or groups of specimens, of most of these
classes of antiquities, have been already published in our Transactions and Proceedings, and
elsewhere. But Scottish Archæology requires of its votaries as large and exhaustive a collection
as possible, with accurate descriptions, and, when possible, with photographs or drawings--or
mayhap with models (which we greatly lack for our Museum)--of all the discoverable forms of
each class; as of all the varieties of ancient hill-strongholds; all the varieties of our underground
weems, etc. The necessary collection of all ascertainable types, and instances of some of these
classes of antiquities, will be, no doubt, a task of much labour and time, and will in most
instances require the combined efforts of many and zealous workers. This Society will be ever
thankful to any members who will contribute even one or two stones to the required heap. But
all past experience has shown that it is useless, and generally even hurtful, to attempt to
frame hypotheses upon one, or even upon a few specimens only. In Archæology, as in other sciences,
we must have full and accurate premises before we can hope to make full and accurate deductions.
It is needless and hopeless for us to expect clear, correct, and philosophic views of the character
and of the date and age of such archæological objects as I have enumerated, except by following
the triple process of (1) assiduously collecting together as many instances as possible of
each class of our antiquities; (2) carefully comparing these instances with each other, so
as to ascertain all their resemblances and differences; and (3) contrasting them with similar
remains in other cognate countries, where--in some instances, perhaps--there may exist, what
possibly is wanting with us, the light of written history to guide us in elucidating the special
subjects that may happen to be engaging our investigations--ever remembering that our Scottish
Archæology is but a small, a very small, segment of the general circle of the Archæology of
Europe and of the World.

The same remarks, which I have just ventured to make, as to the proper mode of investigating
the classes of our larger archæological subjects, hold equally true also of those other classes
of antiquities of a lighter and more portable type, which we have collected in our museums;
such, for instance, as the ancient domestic tools, instruments, personal ornaments, weapons,
etc., of stone, flint, bone, bronze, iron, silver, and gold, which our ancestors used; the
clay and bronze vessels which they employed in cooking and carrying their food; the handmills
with which they ground their corn; the whorls and distaffs with which they span, and the stuff
and garments spun by them, etc. etc. It is only by collecting, combining, and comparing all
the individual instances of each antiquarian object of this kind--all ascertainable specimens,
for example, of our Scottish stone celts and knives; all ascertainable specimens of our clay
vessels; of our leaf-shaped swords; of our metallic armlets; of our grain rubbers and stone-querns,
etc. etc.--and by tracing the history of similar objects in other allied countries, that we
will read aright the tales which these relics--when once properly interrogated--are capable
of telling us of the doings, the habits, and the thoughts of our distant predecessors.

It is on this same broad and great ground--of the indispensable necessity of a large and perfect
collection of individual specimens of all kinds of antiquities for safe, sure, and successful
deduction--that we plead for the accumulation of such objects in our own or in other public
antiquarian collections. And in thus pleading with the Scottish public for the augmentation
and enrichment of our Museum, by donations of all kinds, however slight and trivial they may
seem to the donors, we plead for what is not any longer the property of this Society, but what
is now the property of the nation. The Museum has been gifted over by the Society of Antiquaries
to the Government--it now belongs, not to us, but to Scotland--and we unhesitatingly call upon
every true-hearted Scotsman to contribute, whenever it is in his power, to the extension of
this Museum, as the best record and collection of the ancient archæological and historical
memorials of our native land. We call for such a central general ingathering and repository
of Scottish antiquities for another reason. Single specimens and examples of archæological
relics are, in the hands of a private individual, generally nought but mere matters of idle
curiosity and wild conjecture; while all of them become of use, and sometimes of great moment,
when placed in a public collection beside their fellows. Like stray single words or letters
that have dropt from out the Book of Time, they themselves, individually, reveal nothing, but
when placed alongside of other words and letters from the same book, they gradually form--under
the fingers of the archæologist--into lines, and sentences, and paragraphs, which reveal secret
and stirring legends of the workings of the human mind, and human hand, in ages of which, perchance,
we have no other existing memorials.

In attempting to read the cypher of these legends aright, let us guard against one fault which
was unfortunately too often committed in former days, and which is perhaps sometimes committed
still. Let us not fall into the mistake of fancying that everything antiquarian, which we do
not see at first sight the exact use of, must necessarily be something very mysterious. Old
distaff-whorls, armlets, etc., have, in this illogical spirit, been sometimes described as
Druidical amulets and talismen; ornamented rings and bosses from the ancient rich Celtic horse-harness,
discovered in sepulchral barrows, have been published as Druidical astronomical instruments;
and in the last century some columnar rock arrangement in Orkney was gravely adduced by Toland
as a Druidical pavement. It is this craving after the mysterious, this reprehensible irrationalism,
that has brought, indeed, the whole subject of Druidism into much modern contempt with many
archæologists. No doubt Druidism is a most interesting and a most important subject for due
and calm investigation, and the facts handed down to us in regard to it by Cæsar, Diodorus,
Mela, Strabo, Pliny, and other classic and hagiological authors, are full of the gravest archæological
bearings; but no doubt also many antiquarian relics, both large and small, have been provokingly
called Druidical, merely because their origin and object were unknown. We have not, for instance,
a particle of direct evidence for the too common belief that our stone circles were temples
which the Druids used for worship; or that our cromlechs were their sacrificial altars. In
fact, formerly the equanimity of the old theoretical class of archæologists was disturbed by
these leviathan notions about Druids and Druidesses as much as the marine zoology of the poor
sailor was long disturbed by his leviathan notions about sea-serpents and mermaids.

In our archæological inquiries into the probable uses and import of all doubtful articles in
our museums or elsewhere, let us proceed upon a plan of the very opposite kind. Let us, like
the geologists, try always, when working with such problems, to understand the past by reasoning
from the present. Let us study backwards from the known to the unknown. In this way we can
easily come to understand, for example, how our ancestors made those single-tree canoes, which
have been found so often in Scotland, by observing how the Red Indian, partly by fire and partly
by the hatchet, makes his analogous canoe at the present day; how our flint arrows were manufactured,
when we see the process by which the present Esquimaux manufactures his; how our predecessors
fixed and used their stone knives and hatchets, when we see how the Polynesian fixes and uses
his stone knives and hatchets now; how, in short, matters sped in respect to household economy,
dress, work, and war, in this old Caledonia of ours, during even the so-called Stone Age, when
we reflect upon and study the modes in which matters are conducted in that new Caledonia in
the Pacific--the inhabitants of which knew nothing of metals till they came in contact with
Europeans, not many years ago; how, in long past days, hand and home-made clay vessels were
the chief or only vessels used for cooking and all culinary purposes, seeing that in one or
two parts of the Hebrides this is actually the state of matters still.

The collection of home-made pottery on the table--glazed with milk--is the latest contribution
to our Museum. It was recently brought up, by Captain Thomas and Dr. Mitchell, from the parish
of Barvas, in the Lewis. These "craggans," jars, or bowls, and other culinary dishes, are certainly
specimens of the ceramic art in its most primitive state;--they are as rude as the rudest of
our old cinerary urns; and yet they constitute, in the places in which they were made and used,
the principal cooking, dyeing, and household vessels possessed by some of our fellow-countrymen
in this the nineteenth century.[13] In the adjoining parish of Uig, Captain Thomas found and
described to us, two years ago, in one of his instructive and practical papers, the small beehive
stone houses in which some of the nomadic inhabitants of the district still live in summer.
Numerous antiquarian remains, and ruins of similar houses and collections of houses, exist
in Ireland, Wales, Cornwall, Switzerland, and perhaps in other kingdoms; but apparently they
have everywhere been long ago deserted as human habitations, except in isolated and outlying
spots among the Western Islands of Scotland. The study of human habits in these Hebridean houses,
at the present day, enables us to guess what the analogous human habits probably were, when,
for example, the old Irish city of Fahan--consisting of similar structures only--was the busy
scene of human life and activity in times long past. These, and other similar facts, besides
teaching us the true road to some forms of archæological discovery, teach us also one other
important lesson,--namely, that there are in reality two kinds of antiquity, both of which
claim and challenge our attention. One of these kinds of antiquity consists in the study of
the habits and works of our distant predecessors and forefathers, who lived on this earth,
and perhaps in this segment of it, many ages ago. The other kind of antiquity consists of the
study of those archaic human habits and works which may, in some corners of the world, be found
still prevailing among our fellow-men--or even among our own fellow-countrymen--down to the
present hour, in despite of all the blessings of human advancement, and the progress of human
knowledge. By one kind of antiquity we trace the slow march and revolutions of centuries; by
the other we trace the still slower march and revolutions of civilisation, in countries and
kingdoms where the glittering theories of the politician might have led us to expect a different
and a happier state of matters.

Besides the antiquarian relics of a visible and tangible form to which I have adverted, as
demanding investigation and collection on our part, there are various antiquarian relics of
a non-material type in Scottish Archæology which this Society might perhaps do much to collect
and preserve, through the agency of active committees, and the assistance of many of our countrymen,
who, I doubt not, could be easily incited to assist us in the required work. One of these matters
is a fuller collection and digest than we yet possess of the old superstitious beliefs and
practices of our forefathers. And certainly some strange superstitions do remain, or at least
lately did remain, among us. The sacrifice, for example, of the cock and other animals for
recovery from epilepsy and convulsions, is by no means extinct in some Highland districts.
In old Pagan and Mithraic times we know that the sacrifice of the ox was common. I have myself
often listened to the account given by one near and dear to me, who was in early life personally
engaged in the offering up and burying of a poor live cow as a sacrifice to the Spirit of the
Murrain. This occurred within twenty miles of the metropolis of Scotland. In the same district
a relative of mine bought a farm not very many years ago. Among his first acts, after taking
possession, was the inclosing a small triangular corner of one of the fields within a stone
wall. The corner cut off--and which still remains cut off--was the "Goodman's Croft"--an offering
to the Spirit of Evil, in order that he might abstain from ever blighting or damaging the rest
of the farm. The clergyman of the parish, in lately telling me the circumstance, added, that
my kinsman had been, he feared, far from acting honestly with Lucifer, after all, as the corner
which he had cut off for the "Goodman's" share was perhaps the most worthless and sterile spot
on the whole property. Some may look upon such superstitions and superstitious practices as
matters utterly vulgar and valueless in themselves; but in the eyes of the archæologist they
become interesting and important when we remember that the popular superstitions of Scotland,
as of other countries, are for the most part true antiquarian vestiges of the pagan creeds
and customs of our earlier ancestors; our present Folk-lore being merely in general a degenerated
and debased form of the highest mythological and medical lore of very distant times. A collection
of the popular superstitions and practices of the different districts of Scotland now, ere
(like fairy and goblin forms vanishing before the break of day) they melt and disappear totally
before the light and the pride of modern knowledge, would yet perhaps afford important materials
for regaining much lost antiquarian knowledge. For as the palæontologist can sometimes reconstruct
in full the types of extinct animals from a few preserved fragments of bones, possibly some
future archæological Cuvier may one day be able to reconstruct from these mythological fragments,
and from other sources, far more distinct figures and forms than we at present possess of the
heathen faith and rites of our forefathers.

Perhaps a more important matter still would be the collection, from every district and parish
of Scotland, of local lists of the oldest names of the hills, rivers, rocks, farms, and other
places and objects; and this all the more that in this age of alteration and change many of
these names are already rapidly passing away. Yet the possession of a Scottish antiquarian
gazetteer or map of this kind would not only enable us to identify many localities mentioned
in our older deeds and charters, but more--the very language to which these names belong would,
perhaps, as philological ethnology advances, betimes serve as guides to lead our successors,
if they do not lead us, to obtain clearer views than we now have of the people that aboriginally
inhabited the different districts of our country, and the changes which occurred from time
to time in these districts in the races which successively had possession of them. In this,
as in other parts of the world, our mountains and other natural objects often obstinately retain,
in despite of all subsequent changes and conquests, the appellations with which they were originally
baptised by the aboriginal possessors of the soil; as, for example, in three or four of the
rivers which enter the Forth nearest to us here--viz., the Avon, the Amond, and the Esk on
this side; and the Dour, at Aberdour, on the opposite side of the Firth. For these are all
old Aryan names, to be found as river appellations in many other spots of the world, and in
some of its oldest dialects. The Amond or Avon is a simple modification of the present word
of the Cymric "Afon," for "river," and we have all from our schooldays known it under its Latin
form of "Amnis." The Esk, in its various modifications of Exe, Axe, Uisk, etc., is the present
Welsh word, "Uisk," for "water," and possibly the earliest form "asqua," of the Latin noun
"aqua." Again, the noun "Dour"--Douro--so common an appellative for rivers in many parts of
Europe, is, according to some of our best etymologists, identical with, or of the same Aryan
source as the "Uda," or water, of the sanskrit, "[Greek: hydôr]" of the Greeks, and the "Dwr"
or "Dour" of the Cambrian and Gael. The archæologist, like the Red Indian when tracking his
foe, teaches himself to observe and catch up every possible visible trace of the trail of archaic
man; but, like the Red Indian also, he now and again lays his ear on the ground to listen for
any sounds indicating the presence and doings of him who is the object of his pursuit. The
old words which he hears whispered in the ancient names of natural objects and places supply
the antiquary with this kind of audible archæological evidence. For, when cross-questioned
at the present day as to their nomenclature, many, I repeat, of our rivers and lakes, of our
hills and headlands, do, in their mere names, telegraph back to us, along mighty distances
of time, significant specimens of the tongue spoken by the first inhabitants of their district--in
this respect resembling the doting and dying octogenarian that has left in early life the home
of his fathers, to sojourn in the land of the stranger, and who remembers and babbles at last--ere
the silver cord of memory is utterly and finally loosed--one language only, and that some few
words merely, in the long unspoken tongue which he first learned to lisp in his earliest infancy.
Let me here briefly allude to two only, and these two of rather opposite characters,--viz.
(1), researches beneath the surface of the earth; and (2), researches among olden works and
manuscripts.

In times past Scottish Archæology has already gained much from digging; and in times to come
it is doubtless destined to gain yet infinitely more from a systematised use of this mode of
research. For the truth is, that beneath the surface of the earth on which we tread--often
not above two or three feet below that surface, sometimes not deeper than the roots of our
plants and trees--there undoubtedly lie, in innumerable spots and places,--buried, and waiting
only for disinterment,--antiquarian relics of the most valuable and important character. The
richest and rarest treasures contained in some of our antiquarian museums have been exhumed
by digging; and that digging has been frequently of the most accidental and superficial kind--like
the discovery of the silver mines of Potosi through the chance uprooting of a shrub by the
hand of a climbing traveller.

The magnificent twisted torc, containing some £50 worth of pure gold, which was exhibited in
Edinburgh in 1856, in the Museum of the Archæological Institute, was found in 1848 in Needwood
Forest, lying on the top of some fresh mould which had been turned up by a fox, in excavating
for himself a new earth-hole. Formerly, on the sites of the old British villages in Wiltshire,
the moles, as Sir Richard Hoare tells us, were constantly throwing up to the surface numerous
coins and fragments of pottery. We are indebted to the digging propensities of another animal
for the richest collection of silver ornaments which is contained in our Museum: For the great
hoard of massive silver brooches, torcs, ingots, Cufic and other coins, etc., weighing some
16 lbs. in all, which was found in 1857 in the Bay of Skaill in Orkney, was discovered in consequence
of several small pieces of the deposit having been accidentally uncovered by the burrowings
of the busy rabbit. That hoard itself is interesting on this other account, that it is one
of 130 or more similar silver deposits, almost all found by digging, that have latterly been
discovered, stretching from Orkney, along the shores and islands of the Baltic, through Russia
southward, towards the seat of the government of those Eastern Caliphs who issued the Cufic
coins which generally form part of these collections--this long track being apparently the
commercial route along which those merchants passed, who, from the seventh or eighth to the
eleventh century, carried on the traffic which then subsisted between Asia and the north of Europe.

The spade and plough of the husbandman are constantly disinterring relics of high value to
the antiquary and numismatist. The matchless collection of gold ornaments contained in the
Museum of the Irish Academy has been almost entirely discovered in the course of common agricultural
operations. The pickaxe of the ditcher, and of the canal and railway navvies, have often also,
by their accidental strokes, uncovered rich antiquarian treasures. The remarkable massive silver
chain, ninety-three ounces in weight, which we have in our Museum, was found about two feet
below the surface, when the Caledonian Canal was dug in 1808. One of the largest gold armlets
ever discovered in Scotland was disinterred at Slateford in cutting the Caledonian Railway.
Our Museum contains only a model of it; for the original--like many similar relics, when they
consisted of the precious metals--was sold for its mere weight in bullion, and lost--at least
to Archæology--in the melting-pot of the jeweller, in consequence of the former unfortunate
state of our law of treasure-trove. And it cannot perhaps be stated too often or too loudly,
that such continued wanton destruction of these relics is now so far provided against; for
by a Government ordinance, the finder of any relics in ancient coins, or in the precious metals,
is now entitled by law, on delivering them up to the Crown for our National Museum, to claim
"the full intrinsic value" of them from the Sheriff of the district in which they chance to
be discovered--a most just and proper enactment, through the aid of which many such relics
will no doubt be henceforth properly preserved.

But the results of digging to which I have referred are, as I have already said, the results
merely of accidental digging. From a systematised application of the same means of discovery,
in fit and proper localities, with or without previous ground-probing, Archæology is certainly
entitled to expect most valuable consequences. The spade and pickaxe are become as indispensable
aids in some forms of archæological, as the hammer is in some forms of geological research.
The great antiquarian treasures garnered up in our sepulchral barrows and olden kistvaen cemeteries,
are only to be recovered to antiquarian science by digging, and by digging, too, of the most
careful and methodised kind. For in such excavations it is a matter of moment to note accurately
every possible separate fact as to the position, state, etc., of all the objects exposed; as
well as to search for, handle, and gather these objects most carefully. In excavating, some
years ago, a large barrow in the Phoenix Park at Dublin, two entire skeletons were discovered
within the chamber of the stone cromlech which formed the centre of the sepulchral mound. A
flint knife, a flint arrow-head, and a small fibula of bone were found among the rubbish, along
with some cinerary urns; but no bronze or other metallic implements. The human beings buried
there had lived in the so-called Stone Period of the Danish archæologists. Some hard bodies
were observed immediately below the head of one of the skeletons, and by very cautious and
careful picking away of the surrounding earth, there was traced around the neck of each a complete
necklace formed of the small sea-shells of the Nerita, with a perforation in each shell to
admit of a string composed of vegetable fibres being passed through them. Without due vigilance
how readily might these interesting relics have been overlooked!

The spade and mattock, however, have subserved, and will subserve, other important archæological
purposes besides the opening of ancient cemeteries. They will probably enable us yet to solve
to some extent the vexed question of the true character of our so-called "Druidical circles"
and "Druidical stones," by proving to us that one of their uses at least was sepulchral. The
bogs and mosses of Ireland, Denmark, and other countries, have, when dug into, yielded up great
stores of interesting antiquarian objects--usually wonderfully preserved by the qualities of
the soil in which they were immersed--as stone and metallic implements, portions of primæval
costume, combs, and other articles of the toilet, pieces of domestic furniture, old and buried
wooden houses, and even, as in the alleged case of Queen Gunhild, and other "bogged" or "pitted"
criminals, human bodies astonishingly entire, and covered with the leathern and other dresses
in which they died. All this forms a great mine of antiquarian research, in which little or
nothing has yet been accomplished in Scotland. It is only by due excavations that we can hope
to acquire a proper analytical knowledge of the primæval abodes of our ancestors,--whether
these abodes were in underground "weems," or in those hitherto neglected and yet most interesting
objects of Scottish Archæology, namely, our archaic villages and towns, the vestiges and marks
of which lie scattered over our plains and mountain sides--always near a stream, or lake, or
good spring--usually marked by groups of shallow pits or excavations (the foundations of their
old circular houses) and a few nettles--generally protected and surrounded on one or more sides
by a rath or earth-wall--often near a hill-fort--and having attached to them, at some distance
in the neighbourhood, stone graves, and sometimes, as on the grounds about Morton Hall, monoliths
and barrows.

Last year we had detailed at length to the Society the very remarkable results which Mr. Neish
had obtained by simple persevering digging upon the hill of the Laws in Forfarshire, exposing,
as his excavations have done, over the whole top of the hill, extensive Cyclopic walls of several
feet in height, formerly buried beneath the soil, and of such strange and puzzling forms as
to defy as yet any definite conjecture of their character. No doubt similar works, with similar
remains of implements, ornaments, querns, charred corn, etc., will yet be found by similar
diggings on other Scottish hills; and at length we may obtain adequate data for fixing their
nature and object, and perhaps even their date. Certainly every Scotch antiquary must heartily
wish that the excellent example of earnest and enlightened research set by Mr. Neish was followed
by others of his brother landholders in Scotland.

At the present time the sites and remains of some Roman cities in England are being restored
to light in this way--as the old city of Uriconium (Wroxeter), where already many curious discoveries
have rewarded the quiet investigations that are being carried on;--and Borcovicus in Northumberland
(a half-day's journey from Edinburgh), one of the stations placed along the magnificent old
Roman wall which still exists in wonderful preservation in its neighbourhood, and itself a
Roman town, left comparatively so entire that "Sandy Gordon" described it long ago as the most
remarkable and magnificent Roman station in the whole island, while Dr. Stukely spoke of it
enthusiastically as the "Tadmor of Britain." I was lately told by Mr. Longueville Jones, that
in the vicinity of Caerleon--the ancient Isca Silurum of the Roman Itinerary--the slim sharpened
iron rod used as a ground-probe had detected at different distances a row of buried Roman houses
and villas, extending from the old city into the country for nearly three miles in length.
Here, as elsewhere, a rich antiquarian mine waits for the diggings of the antiquary; and elsewhere,
as here, the ground-probe will often point out the exact spots that should be dug, with far
more certainty than the divining rod of any Dousterswivel ever pointed out hidden hoards of
gold or hidden springs of water.

But it is necessary, as I have already hinted, to seek and hope for additional archæological
materials in literary as well as in subterraneous researches. And certainly, one especial deficiency
which we have, to deplore in Scottish Archæology is the almost total want of written documents
and annals of the primæval and early mediæval portions of Scottish history. The antiquaries
of England and Ireland are much more fortunate in this respect than we are; for they possess
a greater abundance of early documents than we can boast of. Indeed, after Tacitus' interesting
account of the first Roman invasion of Scotland under Agricola, and a few meagre allusions
to, and statements regarding this country and its inhabitants by some subsequent classic authors,
we have, for a course of seven or eight centuries, almost no written records of any authority
to refer to. The chief, if not the only, exceptions to this general remark, consist of a few
scattered entries bearing upon Scotland in the Irish Annals--as in those of Tighernach and
Ulster; some facts related by Bede; some statements given in the lives and legends of the early
Scottish, Welsh, and Irish saints;[14] and various copies of the list of the Pictish kings.

When we come down beyond the eleventh and twelfth centuries, our written memorials rapidly
increase in quantity and extent. I have already alluded to the fact that three hundred quarto
volumes--nearly altogether drawn from unpublished manuscripts--have been printed by the Scottish
clubs within the last forty years. Mr. Robertson informs me that in the General Register House
alone (and independently of other and private collections), there is material for at least
a hundred volumes more; and the English Record Office contains, as is well known, many unedited
documents referring to the building of various Scottish castles by Edward I., and to other
points interesting to Scottish Archæology and History. The Welsh antiquaries have obtained
from the Government offices in London various important documents of this description referring
to Wales. Why should the antiquaries of Scotland not imitate them in this respect?

Modern experience has shown that it is not by any means chimerical to expect, that we may yet
recover, from various quarters, and from quite unexpected sources, too, writings and documents
of much interest and importance in relation both to British and to Scottish Archæology. Of
that great fossil city Pompeii, not one hundredth part, it is alleged, has as yet been fully
searched; and, according to Sir Charles Lyell, the quarters hitherto cleared out are those
where there was the least probability of discovering manuscripts. It would be almost hoping
beyond the possibility of hope to expect that in some of its unexplored mansions, one of the
rich libraries of those ancient Roman times may turn up, presenting papyri deeply interesting
to British antiquaries, and containing, for example, a transcript of that letter on the habits
and character of the inhabitants of Britain which Cicero himself informs us that he desired
his brother Quintus to write, when, as second in command, he accompanied Julius Cæsar in his
first invasion of our island;--or a copy of that account which Himilico the Carthaginian, had
drawn up of his voyage, some centuries before the Christian era, to the Tin Islands, and other
parts northwards of the Pillars of Hercules;--or a roll of those Punic Annals which Festus
Avienus tells us that he himself consulted when (probably in the fourth century) he wrote those
lines in his "Ora Maritima" in which he gives a description of Great Britain and Ireland.

The antiquaries of Scotland would heartily rejoice over the discovery of lost documents far
less ancient than these. Perhaps I could name two or three of our colleagues who would perfectly
revel over the recovery, for instance, of one or two leaves of those old Pictish annals (veteres
Pictorum libri) that still existed in the twelfth century, and in which, among other matters,
was a brief account (once copied by the Pictish clerk Thana, the son of Dudabrach, for King
Ferath, at Meigle) of the solemn ceremony which took place when King Hungus endowed the church
of St. Andrews, in presence of twelve members of the Pictish regal race, with a grant of many
miles of broad acres, and solemnly placed with his royal hands on the altar of the church a
piece of fresh turf in symbolisation of his royal land-gift. We all deplore that we possess
no longer what the Abbot Ailred of Rievaulx, and the monk Joceline of Furness possessed, namely,
biographies, apparently written in the old language of our country, of two of our earliest
Scottish saints--St. Ninian of Whithorn, and St. Kentigern of Glasgow; and we grieve that we
have lost even that Life of St. Serf, which, along with a goodly list of service and other
books (chained to the stalls and desks), was placed, before the time of the Reformation, in
the choir of the Cathedral of Glasgow, as we know from the catalogue which has been preserved
of its library.

But let us not at the same time forget that Scottish archæological documents, as ancient as
any of these, have been latterly rediscovered, and rediscovered occasionally in the most accidental
way; and let us not, therefore, despair of further, and perhaps even of greater success in
the same line. Certainly the greatest of recent events in Scottish Archæology was the casual
finding, within the last two or three years, in one of the public libraries at Cambridge, of
a manuscript of the Gospels, which had formerly belonged to the Abbey of Deer, in Aberdeenshire.
The margin and blank vellum of this ancient volume contain, in the Celtic language, some grants
and entries reaching much beyond the age of any of our other Scottish charters and chronicles.
The oldest example of written Scottish Gaelic that was previously known was not earlier than
the sixteenth century. Portions of the Deer Manuscript have been pronounced by competent scholars
to be seven centuries older.

The most ancient known collection of the laws of Scotland--a manuscript written about 1270--was
detected in the public library of Berne, and lately restored to this country. In 1824, Mr.
Thomson, a schoolmaster at Ayr, picked up, on an old bookstall in that town, a valuable manuscript
collection of Scotch burghal laws written upwards of four centuries ago.

Sometimes, as in this last instance, documents of great value in Scottish Archæology have made
narrow escapes from utter loss and destruction.

I was told by the late Mr. Thomas Thomson--a gentleman to whom we are all indebted for promoting
and systematising our studies--that a miscellaneous, but yet in some points valuable collection
of old vellum manuscripts was left, at the beginning of the present century, by a poor peripatetic
Scottish tailor, who could not read one word of the old black letter documents which he spent
his life and his purse in collecting. Being a visionary claimant to one of the dormant Scottish
peerages, he buoyed himself up with the bright hope that some clever lawyer would yet find
undoubted proofs of his claims in some of the written parchments which he might procure. Sir
Robert Cotton is said to have discovered one of the original vellum copies of the Magna Charta
in the shop of another tailor, who, holding it in his hand, was preparing to cut up this charter
of the liberties of England into tape for measuring some of England's sons for coats and trousers.
The missing manuscript of the History of Scotland, from the Restoration to 1681, which was
written by Sir George Mackenzie, the King's Advocate, was rescued from a mass of old paper
that had been sold for shop purposes to a grocer in Edinburgh. Some fragments of the Privy
Council Records of Scotland--now preserved in the General Register House--were bought among
waste snuff-paper.[15] Occasionally even a very small preserved fragment of an ancient document
has proved of importance. Mr. Robertson informs me that, in editing the old Canons of the Scottish
Church, he has derived considerable service from a single leaf of a contemporary record of
the Canons of the sixteenth century, which had been used and preserved in the old binding of
a book. This single leaf is the only bit of manuscript of the Scotch sixteenth century Canons
that is known to exist in Scotland.

In 1794 eight official volumes of the Scottish Secretary of State's Register of Seisins were
discovered in a bookseller's shop in Edinburgh, after they had remained concealed for more
than 185 years.

Among the great mass of interesting Scottish manuscripts preserved in our General Register
House, there is one dated Arbroath,--April 1320;--perhaps the noblest Scottish document of
that era. It is the official duplicate of a letter of remonstrance addressed to Pope John XXII.
by the Barons, Freeholders, and Community of Scotland, in which these doughty Scotsmen declare,
that so long as a hundred of them remain alive, they will never submit to the dominion of England.
This venerable record and precious declaration of Scottish independence, written on a sheet
of vellum, and authenticated by the dependant seals of its patriotic authors, was detected
by a deceased Scottish nobleman in a most precarious situation; for he discovered it ruthlessly
stuck into the fire-place of his charter-room.

Contested points in Scottish Archæology and history have been occasionally settled by manuscript
discoveries that were perfectly accidental.

After the blowing up of the Kirk of the Field, the only one of Darnley's servants that escaped
was brought by the Earl of Murray before the English Council, and there gave evidence, implying
that Queen Mary--that ever-interesting princess, who has been doubtlessly both over-decried
by her foes and over-praised by her friends--was cognisant of the intended murder of her husband,
inasmuch as, beforehand, she ordered an old bed to be placed in Darnley's room, and the richer
bed that previously stood in it to be removed. Nearly three hundred years after that dark and
sordid insinuation was made, a roll of papers was casually found, during a search among some
legal documents of the early part of the seventeenth century, and one of the leaves in that
roll contained a contemporary and authenticated official return of the royal furniture lost
by the blowing up of the King's residence. Among other items, this leaf proved, beyond the
possibility of further cavil, that the bed which stood in Darnley's room was, up to the time
of his death, unchanged, and was not, as alleged by Mary's enemies, an old and worthless piece
of furniture, but, on the contrary, was "a bed of violet velvet, with double hangings, braided
with gold and silver (ung lictz de veloux viollet a double pante passemente dor et argent)."

The finest old Teutonic cross in Scotland is the well-known pillar which stands in the churchyard
of Ruthwell, in Dumfriesshire. It was ignominiously thrown down, by a decree of the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, in 1642; but its broken fragments were collected, as far
as possible, and the cross itself again erected, by the late clergyman of the parish, Dr. Henry
Duncan, who published in the Transactions of this Society correct drawings of the Runic inscription
on this ancient monument. Two Danish antiquaries, Repp and Finn Magnusen, tried to read these
Runic lines, and tortured them into very opposite, and let me simply add, very ridiculous meanings,
about a grant of land and cows in Ashlafardhal, and Offa, a kinsman of Woden, transferring
property to Ashloff, etc., all which they duly published. That great antiquary and Saxon scholar,
the late Mr. Kemble, then happened to turn his attention to the Ruthwell inscription, and saw
the runes or language to be Anglo-Saxon, and in no ways Scandinavian, as had been supposed.
He found that the inscription consisted of a poem, or extracts from a poem, in Anglo-Saxon,
in which the stone cross, speaking in the first person, described itself as overwhelmed with
sorrow because it had borne Christ raised upon it at His crucifixion, had been stained with
the blood poured from His side, and had witnessed His agonies,--

   "I raised the powerful King,
   The Lord of the heavens;
   I dared not fall down," etc. etc.

Who was to decide between the very diverse opinions, and still more diverse readings, of this
inscription by the English antiquary and his Danish rivals? An accidental discovery in an old
manuscript may be justly considered as having settled the whole question. For, two or three
years after Mr. Kemble had published his reading of the inscription, the identical Anglo-Saxon
poem which he had found written on the Ruthwell cross was casually discovered in an extended
form under the title of the "Dream of the Rood." The old MS. volume of Saxon homilies and religious
lays from which the book containing it was printed, was found by Dr. Blum in a library at Vercelli,
in Italy.

With these rambling remarks I have already detained you far too long. Ere concluding, however,
bear with me for a minute or two longer, while I shortly speak of one clamant subject--viz.
the strong necessity of this Society, and of every Scotsman, battling and trying to prevent,
if possible, the further demolition of the antiquarian relics scattered over Scotland.

Various human agencies have been long busy in the destruction and obliteration of our antiquarian
earth and stone works. At no period has this process of demolition gone on in Scotland more
rapidly and ruthlessly than during the last fifty or a hundred years. That tide of agricultural
improvement which has passed over the country, has, in its utilitarian course, swept away--sometimes
inevitably, often most needlessly--the aggers and ditches of ancient camps, sepulchral barrows
and mounds, stone circles and cairns, earth-raths, and various other objects of deep antiquarian
interest. Indeed, the chief antiquarian remains of this description which have been left on
the surface of our soil are to be found on our mountain-tops, on our moors, or in our woods,
where the very sterility or inaccessibility of the spot, or the kind protection and sympathy
of the old forest-trees, have saved them, for a time at least, from reckless ruin and annihilation.
Some of the antiquarian memorials that I allude to would have endured for centuries to come,
had it not been for human interference and devastation. For, in the demolition of these works
of archaic man, the hand of man has too generally proved both a busier and a less scrupulous
agent than the hand of time.

Railways have proved among the greatest, as well as the latest, of the agents of destruction.
In our island various cherished antiquities have been often most unnecessarily swept away in
constructing these race-courses for the daily rush and career of the iron horse. His rough
and ponderous hoof, for example, has kicked down, at one extremity of a railway connected with
Edinburgh (marvellously and righteously to the dispeace of the whole city), that fine old specimen
of Scottish Second-Pointed architecture, the Trinity College Church; while, at the other extremity
of the same line, it battered into fragments the old Castle of Berwick, a fort rich in martial
and Border memories, and a building rendered interesting by the fact, that in connection with
one of its turrets there was--at the command of Edward I. "the greatest of the Plantagenets,"
(as his latest biographer boastfully terms him)--constructed, some six centuries ago, a cage
of iron and wood, in which he immured, with Bomba-like ferocity, for four weary years, a poor
prisoner, and that prisoner a woman--the Countess of Buchan--whose frightful crime consisted
in having assisted at the coronation of her liege sovereign, Robert the Bruce. In the construction
of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway the line was driven, with annihilating effect, through
the centre of the old and rich Roman Station on the Wall of Antoninus at Castlecary. Some years
ago, as I passed along the line, I saw the farmer in the immediate neighbourhood of this station
busily removing a harmless wall,--among the last, if not the very last remnants of Roman masonry
in Scotland. The largest stone circle near the English Border--the Stonehenge or Avebury of
the north of England--formerly stood near Shap. The stone avenues leading to it are said to
have been nearly two miles in length. The engineer of the Carlisle and Lancaster railway carried
his line right through the very centre of the ancient stone circle forming the head of the
chief avenue, leaving a few of its huge stones standing out on the western side, where they
may be still seen by the passing traveller about half a mile south of the Shap station. If
the line had been laid only a few feet on either side, the wanton desecration and destruction
of this fine archaic monument might have been readily saved. Railway engineers, however, and
railway directors, care far more for mammon and money than for mounds and monoliths.

But other and older agents have overturned and uprooted the memorials transmitted down from
ancient times, with as much wantonness as the railways. Towards the middle of the last century
the Government of the day ordered many miles of the gigantic old Roman wall, which stretches
across Northumberland and Cumberland, to be tossed over and pounded into road metal. About
the same time a Scottish proprietor--with a Vandalism which cast a stigma on his order--pulled
down that antique enigmatical building, "Arthur's Oven," in order to build, with its ashlar
walls, a mill-dam across the Carron. At its next flood the indignant Carron carried away the
mill-dam, and buried for ever in the depths of its own water-course those venerable stones
which were begrudged any longer by the proprietor of the soil the few feet of ground which
they had occupied for centuries on its banks.

In many parts of our country our old sepulchral cairns, hill-forts, castles, churches, and
abbeys, have been most thoughtlessly and reprehensibly allowed, by those that chanced to be
their proprietors for the time, to be used as mere quarries of ready stones for the building
of villages and houses, and for the construction of field-dikes and drains. In the perpetration
of this class of sad and discreditable desecrations, many parties are to blame. Such outrages
have been practised by both landlord and tenant, by both State and Church; and I fear that
the Presbyterian Church of Scotland is by no means free from much culpability in the matter.
But let us, at the same time, rejoice that a better spirit is awakened on the whole question;
and let us hope that our Scottish landlords will all speedily come to imitate, when required,
the excellent example of Mr. Baillie, who, when some years ago he found that one of his tenants
had pulled down and carried off, for building purposes, some portions of the walls of the four
grand old burgs standing in Glenelg, in Inverness-shire, prosecuted the delinquent farmer before
the sheriff-court of the county, and forced him to restore and replace in situ, as far as possible,
and at his own expense, all the stones which he had removed.

Almost all the primæval stone circles and cromlechs which existed in the middle and southern
districts of Scotland have been cast down and removed. The only two cromlechs in the Lothians,
the stones of which have not been removed, are at Ratho and Kipps; and though the stones have
been wantonly pulled down, they could readily be restored, and certainly deserve to be so.
In 1813 the cromlech at Kipps was seen by Sir John Dalzell still standing upright. In describing
it, in the beginning of the last century, Sir Robert Sibbald states that near this Kipps cromlech
was a circle of stones, with a large stone or two in the middle; and he adds, "many such may
be seen all over the country." They have all disappeared; and latterly the stones of the Kipps
circle have been themselves removed and broken up, to build, apparently, some neighbouring
field-walls, though there was abundance of stones in the vicinity equally well suited for the
purpose.

Among the most valuable of our ancient Scottish monuments are certainly our Sculptured Stones.
Most of them, however, and some even in late times, have been sadly mutilated and destroyed,
to a greater or less degree, by human hands, and converted to the most base uses. The stone
at Hilton of Cadboll, remarkable for its elaborate sculpture and ornamental tracery, has had
one of its sides smoothed and obliterated in order that a modern inscription might be cut upon
it to commemorate "Alexander Duff and His Thrie Wives." The beautiful sculptured stone of Golspie
has been desecrated in the same way. Only two of these ancient sculptured stones are known
south of the Forth. One of them has been preserved by having been used as a window-lintel in
the church of Abercorn--the venerable episcopal see, in the seventh century, of Trumwine, the
Bishop of the Picts. The other serves the purpose of a foot-bridge within a hundred yards of
the spot where we are met; and it is to be hoped that its proprietors will allow this ancient
stone to be soon removed from its present ignominious situation to an honoured place in our
Museum. I saw, during last autumn, in Anglesey, a stone bearing a very ancient Romano-British
legend, officiating as one of the posts of a park gate--a situation in which several such inscribed
stones have been found. Still more lately, I was informed of the large central monolith in
a stone circle, not far from the Scottish border, having been thrown down and split up into
seven pairs of field gate-posts.

"Standing-stones"--the old names of which gave their appellations to the very manors on which
they stood--have been repeatedly demolished in Scotland. An obelisk of thirteen feet in height,
and imparting its name to a landed estate in Kincardineshire, was recently thrown down; and
a large monolith, which lent its old, venerable name to a property and mansion within three
or four miles of Edinburgh, was, within the memory of some living witnesses, uprooted and totally
demolished when the direction of the turnpike road in its neighbourhood happened to be altered.

       *       *       *       *       *

A healthier and finer feeling in regard to the propriety of preserving such national antiquities
as I have referred to, subsists, I believe, in the heart of the general public of Scotland,
than perhaps those who are their superiors in riches and rank generally give them credit for.
Within this century the standing-stones of Stennis in Orkney were attacked, and two or three
of them overthrown by an iconoclast; but the people in the neighbourhood resented and arrested
the attempt by threatening to set fire to the house and corn of the barbaric aggressor. After
the passing of the Parliamentary Reform Bill, during a keen contest for the representation
of a large Scottish county, there was successfully urged in the public journals against one
of the candidates, the damaging fact that one of his forefathers had deliberately committed
one of the gross acts of barbarism which I have already specified, in the needless destruction,
in a distant part of Scotland, of one of the smallest but most interesting of Scottish antiquarian
relics; and the voters at the polling-booths showed that they deemed a family, however rich
and estimable, unfit to be intrusted with the parliamentary guardianship of the county, which
had outraged public feeling by wantonly pulling down one of the oldest stone memorials in the
kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the name of this Society, and in the name of my fellow-countrymen generally, I here solemnly
protest against the perpetration of any more acts of useless and churlish Vandalism, in the
needless destruction and removal of our Scottish antiquarian remains. The hearts of all leal
Scotsmen, overflowing as they do with a love of their native land, must ever deplore the unnecessary
demolition of all such early relics and monuments as can in any degree contribute to the recovery
and restoration of the past history of our country and of our ancestors. These ancient relics
and monuments are truly, in one strong sense, national property; for historically they belong
to Scotland and to Scotsmen in general, more than they belong to the individual proprietors
upon whose ground they accidentally happen to be placed. There is an Act of Parliament against
the wilful defacing and demolition of public monuments; and, perhaps the Kilkenny Archæological
Association were right when they threatened to indite with the penalties of "misdemeanour"
under that statute, any person who should wantonly and needlessly destroy the old monumental
and architectural relics of his country. Many of these relics might have brought only a small
price indeed in the money-market, while yet they were of a national and historical value which
it would be difficult to estimate. For, when once swept away, their full replacement is impossible.
They cannot be purchased back with gold. Their deliberate and ruthless annihilation is, in
truth, so far the annihilation of the ancient records of the kingdom. If any member of any
ancient family among us needlessly destroyed some of the olden records of that one family,
how bitterly, and how justly too, would he be denounced and despised by its members? But assuredly
antiquarian monuments, as the olden records of a whole realm, are infinitely more valuable
than the records of any individual family in that realm. Let us fondly hope and trust that
a proper spirit of patriotism--that every feeling of good, generous, and gentlemanly taste--will
insure and hallow the future consecration of all such Scottish antiquities as still remain--small
fragments only though they may be of the antiquarian treasures that once existed in our land.

Time, like the Sibyl, who offered her nine books of destiny to the Roman king, has been destroying,
century after century, one after another of the rich volumes of antiquities which she formerly
tendered to the keeping of our Scottish fathers. But though, unhappily, our predecessors, like
King Tarquin, rejected and scorned the rich antiquarian treasures which existed in their days,
let us not now, on that account, despise or decline to secure the three books of them that
still perchance remain. On the contrary,--like the priests appointed by the Roman authorities
to preserve and study the Sibylline records which had escaped destruction,--let this Society
carefully guard and cherish those antiquities of our country which yet exist, and let them
strive to teach themselves and their successors to decipher and interpret aright the strange
things and thoughts that are written on those Sibylline leaves of Scottish Archæology which
Fate has still spared for them. Working earnestly, faithfully, and lovingly in this spirit,
let us not despair that, as the science of Archæology gradually grows and evolves, this Society
may yet, in full truth, restore Scotland to antiquity, and antiquity to Scotland.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: An inaugural Address delivered to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, Session
1860-61]

[Footnote 9: As an illustration of this primitive pastoral idea of wealth, Dr. Livingstone
told me, that on more than one occasion, when Africans were discoursing with him on the riches
of his own country and his own chiefs at home, he was asked the searching and rather puzzling
question, "But how many cows has the Queen of England?"]

[Footnote 10: As some confirmation of the views suggested in the preceding question, my friend
Captain Thomas pointed out to me, after the Address was given, that the name of the fort in
St. Kilda was, as stated by Martin and Macaulay, "Dun Fir-bholg."]

[Footnote 11: Including the works of Homer, Plato, Sophocles, etc. Her library catalogue shows
also a goodly list of "Latyn Buikis," and classics. In a letter to Cecil, dated St. Andrews,
7th April 1562, Randolph incidentally states that Queen Mary then read daily after dinner "somewhat
of Livy" with George Buchanan.]

[Footnote 12: See these stories in Mr. Dasent's Norse Tales, and in Mr. Campbell's collection
of the Popular Tales of the West Highlands.]

[Footnote 13: Among the people of the district of Barvas, most of them small farmers or crofters,
a metal vessel or pot was a thing almost unknown twelve or fourteen years ago. Their houses
have neither windows nor chimneys, neither tables nor chairs; and the cattle and poultry live
under the same roof with their human possessors. If a Chinaman or Japanese landed at Barvas,
and went no further, what a picture might he paint, on his return home, of the state of civilisation
in the British Islands.]

[Footnote 14: One of these Lives--that of St. Columba by Adamnan--has been annotated by Dr.
Reeves with such amazing lore that it really looks as if the Editor had acquired his wondrous
knowledge of ancient Iona and Scotland by some such "uncanny" aids as an archæological "deputation
of spirits."]

[Footnote 15: This alludes to the portion of a mutilated volume for the year 1605, which came
into Mr. Laing's hands, and was given by him to the Deputy Clerk Register. But singular enough,
as Mr. Laing has since informed me, the identical MS. of Sir George Mackenzie, above noticed,
was brought to him for sale as probably a curious volume; it having by some accident been a
second time sold for waste paper! Having no difficulty in recognising the volume, he of course
secured it, and, agreeably to the expressed intention of the Editor of the work in 1821, the
MS. has been deposited in the Advocates' Library, where, it is to be hoped, it may now remain
in safety.]

ON AN OLD STONE-ROOFED CELL OR ORATORY IN THE ISLAND OF INCHCOLM.[16]

Among the islands scattered along the Firth of Forth, one of the most interesting is the ancient
Aemonia, Emona, St. Columba's Isle, or St. Colme's Inch--the modern Inchcolm. The island is
not large, being little more than half-a-mile in length, and about a hundred and fifty yards
across at its broadest part. At either extremity it is elevated and rocky; while in its intermediate
portion it is more level, though still very rough and irregular, and at one point--a little
to the east of the old monastic buildings--it becomes so flat and narrow that at high tides
the waters of the Forth meet over it. Inchcolm lies nearly six miles north-west from the harbour
of Granton, or is about eight or nine miles distant from Edinburgh; and of the many beautiful
spots in the vicinity of the Scottish metropolis, there is perhaps none which surpasses this
little island in the charming and picturesque character of the views that are obtained in various
directions from it.

Though small in its geographical dimensions, Inchcolm is rich in historical and archæological
associations. In proof of this remark, I might adduce various facts to show that it has been
at one time a favoured seat of learning, as when, upwards of four hundred years ago, the Scottish
historian, Walter Bower, the Abbot of its Monastery, wrote there his contributions to the ancient
history of Scotland;[17] and at other times the seat of war, as when it was pillaged at different
periods by the English, during the course of the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries.[18]
For ages it was the site of a monastic institution and the habitation of numerous monks;[19]
and at the beginning of the present century it was temporarily degraded to the site of a military
fort, and the habitation of a corps of artillery.[20] During the plagues and epidemics of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, it formed sometimes a lazaretto for the suspected and
diseased;[21] and during the reign of James I. it was used as a state-prison for the daughter
of the Earl of Ross and the mother of the Lord of the Isles[22]--"a mannish, implacable woman,"
as Drummond of Hawthornden ungallantly terms her;[23] while fifty years later, when Patrick
Graham, Archbishop of St. Andrews, was "decernit ane heretique, scismatike, symoniak, and declarit
cursit, and condamnit to perpetuall presoun," he was, for this last purpose, "first transportit
to St. Colmes Insche."[24] Punishments more dark and dire than mere transportation to, and
imprisonment upon Inchcolm, have perhaps taken place within the bounds of the island, if we
do not altogether misinterpret the history of "a human skeleton standing upright," found several
years ago immured and built up within the old ecclesiastic walls.[25] Nor is this eastern Iona,
as patronised and protected by St. Columba,--and, at one period of his mission to the Picts
and Scots, his own alleged dwelling-place,[26]--devoid in its history of the usual amount of
old monkish miracles and legends. The Scotichronicon contains long and elaborate details of
several of them. When, in 1412, the Earl of Douglas thrice essayed to sail out to sea, and
was thrice driven back by adverse gales, he at last made a pilgrimage to the holy isle of Aemonia,
presented an offering to Columba, and forthwith the Saint sped him with fair winds to Flanders
and home again.[27] When, towards the winter of 1421, a boat was sent on a Sunday (die Dominica)
to bring off to the monastery from the mainland some house provisions and barrels of beer brewed
at Bernhill (in barellis cerevisiam apud Bernhill brasiatam), and the crew, exhilarated with
liquor (alacres et potosi), hoisted, on their return, a sail, and upset the barge, Sir Peter
the Canon,--who, with five others, was thrown into the water,--fervently and unceasingly invoked
the aid of Columba, and the Saint appeared in person to him, and kept Sir Peter afloat for
an hour and a half by the help of a truss of tow (adminiculo cujusdam stupæ), till the boat
of Portevin picked up him and two others.[28] When, in 1385, the crew of an English vessel
(quidam filii Belial) sacrilegiously robbed the island, and tried to burn the church, St. Columba,
in answer to the earnest prayers of those who, on the neighbouring shore, saw the danger of
the sacred edifice, suddenly shifted round the wind and quenched the flames, while the chief
of the incendiaries was, within a few hours afterwards, struck with madness, and forty of his
comrades drowned.[29] When, in 1335, an English fleet ravaged the shores of the Forth, and
one of their largest ships was carrying off from Inchcolm an image of Columba[30] and a store
of ecclesiastical plunder, there sprung up such a furious tempest around the vessel immediately
after she set sail, that she drifted helplessly and hopelessly towards the neighbouring island
of Inchkeith, and was threatened with destruction on the rocks there till the crew implored
pardon of Columba, vowed to him restitution of their spoils, and a suitable offering of gold
and silver, and then they instantly and unexpectedly were lodged safe in port (et statim in
tranquillo portu insperate ducebantur).[31] When, in 1336, some English pirates robbed the
church at Dollar--which had been some time previously repaired and richly decorated by an Abbot
of Aemonia--and while they were, with their sacrilegious booty, sailing triumphantly, and with
music on board, down the Forth, under a favouring and gentle west wind, in the twinkling of
an eye (non solum subito sed in ictu oculi), and exactly opposite the abbey of Inchcolm, the
ship sank to the bottom like a stone. Hence, adds the writer of this miracle in the Scotichronicon,--and
no doubt that writer was the Abbot Walter Bower,--in consequence of these marked retaliating
propensities of St. Columba, his vengeance against all who trespassed against him became proverbial
in England; and instead of calling him, as his name seems to have been usually pronounced at
the time, St. Callum or St. Colam, he was commonly known among them as St. Quhalme ("et ideo,
ut non reticeam quid de eo dicatur, apud eos vulgariter Sanct Quhalme nuncupatur"[32]).

But without dwelling on these and other well-known facts and fictions in the history of Inchcolm,
let me state,--for the statement has, as we shall afterwards see, some bearing upon the more
immediate object of this notice,--that this island is one of the few spots in the vicinity
of Edinburgh that has been rendered classical by the pen of Shakspeare. In the second scene
of the opening act of the tragedy of Macbeth, the Thane of Ross comes as a hurried messenger
from the field of battle to King Duncan, and reports that Duncan's own rebellious subjects
and the invading Scandinavians had both been so completely defeated by his generals, Macbeth
and Banquo, that the Norwegians craved for peace:--

   "Sueno, the Norways' King, craves composition;
   Nor would we deign him burial of his men
   Till he disbursed, at Saint Colmes Inch,
   Ten thousand dollars to our general use."

Inchcolm is the only island of the east coast of Scotland which derives its distinctive designation
from the great Scottish saint. But more than one island on our western shores bears the name
of St. Columba; as, for example, St. Colme's Isle, in Loch Erisort, and St. Colm's Isle in
the Minch, in the Lewis; the island of Kolmbkill, at the head of Loch Arkeg, in Inverness-shire;
Eilean Colm, in the parish of Tongue;[33] and, above all, Icolmkill, or Iona itself, the original
seat and subsequent great centre of the ecclesiastic power of St. Columba and his successors.[34]
An esteemed antiquarian friend, to whom I lately mentioned the preceding reference to Inchcolm
by Shakspeare, at once maintained that the St. Colme's Isle in Macbeth was Iona. Indeed, some
of the modern editors[35] of Shakspeare, carried away by the same view, have printed the line
which I have quoted thus:--

   "Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's-kill Isle,"

instead of "Saint Colmes ynch," as the old folio edition prints it. But there is no doubt whatever
about the reading, nor that the island mentioned in Macbeth is Inchcolm in the Firth of Forth.
For the site of the defeat of the Norwegian host was in the adjoining mainland of Fife, as
the Thane of Ross tells the Scotch king that, to report his victory, he had come from the seat
of war--

                                   "from Fife,
   Where the Norwegian banners flout the sky."

The reference to Inchcolm by Shakspeare becomes more interesting when we follow the poet to
the original historical foundations upon which he built his wondrous tragedy. It is well known
that Shakspeare derived the incidents for his story of Macbeth from that translation of Hector
Boece's Chronicles of Scotland, which was published in England by Raphael Holinshed in 1577.
In these Chronicles, Holinshed, or rather Hector Boece, after describing the reputed poisoning,
with the juice of belladonna, of Sueno and his army, and their subsequent almost complete destruction,
adds, that shortly afterwards, and indeed while the Scots were still celebrating this equivocal
conquest, another Danish host landed at Kinghorn. The fate of this second army is described
by Holinshed in the following words:--

   "The Scots hauing woone so notable a victorie, after they had
   gathered and diuided the spoile of the field, caused solemne
   processions to be made in all places of the realme, and thanks to be
   giuen to almightie God, that had sent them so faire a day ouer their
   enimies. But whilest the people were thus at their processions, woord
   was brought that a new fleet of Danes was arriued at Kingcorne, sent
   thither by Canute, King of England, in reuenge of his brother Suenos
   ouerthrow. To resist these enimies, which were alreadie landed, and
   busie in spoiling the countrie, Makbeth and Banquho were sent with
   the Kings authoritie, who hauing with them a conuenient power,
   incountred the enimies, slue part of them, and chased the other to
   their ships. They that escaped and got once to their ships, obteined
   of Makbeth for a great summe of gold, that such of their friends as
   were slaine at this last bickering, might be buried in Saint Colmes
   Inch. In memorie whereof, manie old sepultures are yet in the said
   Inch, there to be seene grauen with the armes of the Danes, as the
   maner of burieng noble men still is, and hieretofore hath beene vsed.
   A peace was also concluded at the same time betwixt the Danes and
   Scotishmen, ratified (as some haue written) in this wise: that from
   thencefoorth the Danes should neuer come into Scotland to make anie
   warres against the Scots by anie maner of meanes. And these were the
   warres that Duncane had with forren enimies, in the seuenth yiere of
   his reigne."[36]

To this account of Holinshed, as bearing upon the question of the St. Colme's Isle alluded
to by Shakspeare, it is only necessary to add one remark:--Certainly the western Iona, with
its nine separate cemeteries, could readily afford fit burial-space for the slain Danes; but
it is impossible to believe that the defeated and dejected Danish army would or could carry
the dead and decomposing bodies of their chiefs to that remote place of sepulture. And, supposing
that the dead bodies had been embalmed, then it would have been easier to carry them back to
the Danish territories in England, or even across the German Ocean to Denmark itself, than
round by the Pentland Firth to the distant western island of Icolmkill. On the other hand,
that St. Colme's Inch, in the Firth of Forth, is the island alluded to, is, as I have already
said, perfectly certain, from its propinquity to the seat of war, and the point of landing
of the new Scandinavian host, namely, Kinghorn; the old town of Wester Kinghorn lying only
about three or four miles below Inchcolm, and the present town of the same name, or Eastern
Kinghorn, being placed about a couple of miles further down the coast.

We might here have adduced another incontrovertible argument in favour of this view by appealing
to the statement, given in the above quotation, of the existence on Inchcolm, in Boece's time,
of Danish sepulchral monuments, provided we felt assured that this statement was in itself
perfectly correct. But before adopting it as such, it is necessary to remember that Boece describes
the sculptured crosses and stones at Camustane and Aberlemno,[37] in Forfarshire, as monuments
of a Danish character also; and whatever may have been the origin and objects of these mysteries
in Scottish archæology,--our old and numerous Sculptured Stones, with their strange enigmatical
symbols,--we are at least certain that they are not Danish either in their source or design,
as no sculptured stones with these peculiar symbols exist in Denmark itself. That Inchcolm
contained one or more of those sculptured stones, is proved by a small fragment that still
remains, and which was detected a few years ago about the garden-wall. A drawing of it has
been already published by Mr. Stuart.[38] (See woodcut, Fig. 1.) In the quotation which I have
given from Holinshed's Chronicles, the "old sepultures there (on Inchcolm) to be seene grauen
with the armes of the Danes," are spoken of as "manie" in number.[39] Bellenden uses similar
language: "Thir Danes" (he writes) "that fled to thair schippis, gaif gret sowmes of gold to
Makbeth to suffer thair freindis that war slane at his jeoperd to be buryit in Sanct Colmes
Inche. In memory heirof, mony auld sepulturis ar yit in the said Inche, gravin with armis of
Danis."[40] In translating this passage from Boece, both Holinshed and Bellenden overstate,
in some degree, the words of their original author. Boece speaks of the Danish monuments still
existing on Inchcolm in his day, or about the year 1525, as plural in number, but without speaking
of them as many. After stating that the Danes purchased the right of sepulture for their slain
chiefs (nobiles) "in Emonia insula, loco sacro," he adds, "extant et hac ætate notissima Danorum
monumenta, lapidibusque insculpta eorum insignia."[41] For a long period past only one so-called
Danish monument has existed on Inchcolm, and is still to be seen there. It is a single recumbent
block of stone above five feet long, about a foot broad, and one foot nine inches in depth,
having a rude sculptured figure on its upper surface. In his History of Fife, published in
1710, Sir Robert Sibbald has both drawn and described it. "It is (says he) made like a coffin,
and very fierce and grim faces are done on both the ends of it. Upon the middle stone which
supports it, there is the figure of a man holding a spear in his hand."[42] He might have added
that on the corresponding middle part of the opposite side there is sculptured a rude cross;
but both the cross and "man holding a spear" are cut on the single block of stone forming the
monument, and not, as he represents, on a separate supporting stone. Pennant, in his Tour through
Scotland in 1772, tells us that this "Danish monument" "lies in the south-east [south-west]
side of the building (or monastery), on a rising ground. It is (he adds) of a rigid form, and
the surface ornamented with scale-like figures. At each end is the representation of a human
head."[43][44] In its existing defaced form,[45] the sculpture has certainly much more the
appearance of a recumbent human figure, with a head at one end and the feet at the other, than
with a human head at either extremity. The present condition of the monument is faithfully
given in the accompanying woodcut, which, like most of the other woodcuts in this little essay,
have been copied from sketches made by the masterly pencil of my esteemed friend, Mr. James
Drummond, R.S.A.

It is well known that, about a century after the occurrence of these Danish wars, and of the
alleged burial of the Danish chiefs on Inchcolm,--or in the first half of the thirteenth[47]
century,--there was founded on this island, by Alexander I., a monastery, which from time to
time was greatly enlarged, and well endowed. The monastic buildings remaining on Inchcolm at
the present day are of very various dates, and still so extensive that their oblong light-grey
mass, surmounted by a tall square central tower, forms a striking object in the distance, as
seen in the summer morning light from the higher streets and houses of Edinburgh, and from
the neighbouring shores of the Firth of Forth. These monastic buildings have been fortunately
protected and preserved by their insular situation,--not from the silent and wasting touch
of time, but from the more ruthless and destructive hand of man. The stone-roofed octagonal
chapter-house is one of the most beautiful and perfect in Scotland; and the abbot's house,
the cloisters, refectory, etc., are still comparatively entire. But the object of the present
communication is not to describe the well-known conventual ruins on the island, but to direct
the attention of the Society to a small building, isolated, and standing at a little distance
from the remains of the monastery, and which, I am inclined to believe, is of an older date,
and of an earlier age, than any part of the monastery itself.

The small building, cell, oratory, or chapel, to which I allude, forms now, with its south
side, a portion of the line of the north wall of the present garden, and is in a very ruinous
state; but its more characteristic and original features can still be accurately made out.

The building is of the quadrangular figure of the oldest and smallest Irish churches and oratories.
But its form is very irregular, partly in consequence of the extremely sloping nature of the
ground on which it is built, and partly perhaps to accommodate it in position to three large
and immovable masses of trap that lie on either side of it, and one of which masses is incorporated
into its south-west angle. It is thus deeper on its north than on its south side; and much
deeper at its eastern than at its western end. Further, its remaining eastern gable is set
at an oblique angle to the side walls, while both the side walls themselves seem slightly curved
or bent. Hence it happens, that whilst externally the total length of the north side of the
building is 19 feet and a half, the total length of its south side is 21 feet and a half, or
2 feet more. Internally, also, it gradually becomes narrower towards its western extremity;
so that, whilst the breadth of the interior of the building is about 6 feet 3 inches at its
eastern end, it is only 4 feet and 9 inches at its western end. Some of these peculiarities
are shown in the accompanying ground-plan drawn by Mr. Brash (see woodcut, Fig. 4), in which
the line A B represents the whole breadth of the building; A the north, and B the south wall
of it. Unfortunately, as far as can be gathered amid the accumulated debris at the western
part of the building, the gable at that end is almost destroyed, with the exception of the
stones at its base; but, judging from the height of the vaulted roof, this gable probably did
not measure externally above 8 feet, while the depth of the eastern gable, which is comparatively
entire, is between 14 and 15 feet. The interior of the building has been originally, along
its central line, about 16 feet in length; it is nearly 8 feet in height from the middle of
the vaulted roof to the present floor; and the interior has an average breadth of about 5 feet.
Internally the side walls are 5 feet in height from the ground to the spring of the arch or vault.

Three feet from the ground there is interiorly, in the south wall, a small four-sided recess,[48]
1 foot in breadth, and 15 inches in height and depth. (See C in ground plan, Fig. 4; and also
Fig. 8.) In the same south-side wall, near the western gable, is an opening extending from
the floor to the spring of the roof. It has apparently been the original door of the building;
but as it is now built up by a layer of thin stone externally, and the soil of the garden has
been heaped up against it and the whole south wall to the depth of several feet, it is difficult
to make out its full relations and character. There is a peculiarity, however, about the head
of this entrance which deserves special notice. The top of the doorway, as seen both from within
and from without the building, is arched, but in two very different ways. When examined from
within, the head of the doorway is found to be composed of stones laid in the form of a horizontal
arch, the superincumbent stones on each side projecting more and more over each other to constitute
its sides, and then a large, flat, horizontal stone closing the apex. (See woodcut, Fig. 5.)
On the contrary, when examined from without, the top of the doorway is formed by stones laid
in the usual form of the radiating arch, and roughly broken off, as if that arch at a former
period had extended beyond the line of the wall. (See woodcut, Fig. 6.) This doorway, let me
add, is 5 feet high, and on an average about 4 feet wide,[49] but it is 2 or 3 inches narrower
at the top, or at the spring of the arch, than it is at the bottom.[50] The north side wall
of the building is less perfect; as, in modern times, a large rude opening has been broken
through as an entrance or door (see woodcut, Fig. 7, and ground-plan, Fig. 4), after the original
door on the other side had become blocked up.

The eastern gable is still very entire, and contains a small window,[51] which, as measured
outside, is 1 foot 11 inches in height, and 10 inches in breadth. But the jambs of this window
incline or splay internally, so as to form on the internal plane of the gable an opening 2
feet 3 inches in breadth.

The squared sill stone of the window is one of the largest in the eastern gable. Its flat lintel
stone projects externally in an angled or sharpened form beyond the plane of the gable, like
a rude attempt at a moulding or architrave, but probably with the more utilitarian object of
preventing entrance of the common eastern showers into the interior of the cell. The thin single
flat sandstones composing the jambs are each large enough to extend backwards the whole length
of the interior splay of the window, and, from the marks upon them, have evidently been hammer-dressed.[53]
Internally, in this eastern gable, there is placed below the window, and in continuation of
its interior splay, a recess about 18 inches in depth, and of nearly the same breadth as the
divergence of the jambs of the window. The broken base or floor of this recess is in the position
of the altar-stone in some small early Irish chapels.

The accompanying sketch (see woodcut, Fig. 7) of the exterior of the eastern gable shows that
the stones of which it is built have been prepared and dressed with sufficient care--especially
those forming the angles--to entitle us to speak of it as presenting the type of rude ashlar-work.
The stones composing it, particularly above the line of the window, are laid in pretty regular
horizontal courses; lower down they are not by any means so equable in size. The masonry of
the side walls is much less regular, and more of a ruble character. The walls are on an average
about 3 feet in thickness.[54] The stones of which the building is composed are, with a few
exceptions, almost all squared sandstone. The exceptions consist of some larger stones of trap
or basalt, placed principally along the base of the walls. Both secondary trap and sandstone
are found in situ among the rocks of the island. A roundish basalt stone, 2 feet long, forms
a portion of the floor of the building at its southern corner. At other points there is evidence
of a well-laid earth floor. The whole interior of the building has been carefully plastered
at one time. The surface of this plaster-covering of the walls, wherever it is left, is so
dense and hard as to be scratched with difficulty. The lime used for building and cementing
the walls, as shown in a part at the west end which has been lately exposed, contains oyster
and other smaller sea-shells, and is as firm and hard as some forms of concrete.

I have reserved till the last a notice of one of the most remarkable architectural features
in this little building, namely, its arched or vaulted stone roof,--the circumstance, no doubt,
to which the whole structure owes its past durability and present existence.

Stone roofs are found in some old Irish buildings, formed on the principle of the horizontal
arch, or by each layer of stone overlapping and projecting within the layer placed below it
till a single stone closes the top. A remarkable example of this type of stone roof is presented
by the ancient oratory of Gallerus in the county of Kerry; and stone roofs of the same construction
covered most of the old beehive houses and variously shaped cloghans that formerly existed
in considerable numbers in the western and southern districts of Ireland, and more sparsely
on the western shores of Scotland. In the Inchcolm oratory the stone roof is constructed on
another principle--on that, namely, of the radiating arch--a form of roof still seen in some
early Irish oratories and churches, whose reputed date of building ranges from the sixth or
seventh onward to the tenth or eleventh centuries.

The mode of construction of the stone roof of the Inchcolm cell is well displayed in the accidental
section of it that has been made by the falling in of the western gable. One of Mr. Drummond's
sketches (see woodcut, Fig. 9) represents the section as seen across the collection of flower-tipped
rubbish and stones made by the debris of the gable and some accumulated earth. The roof is
constructed, first, of stones placed in the shape of a radiating arch; secondly, of a thin
layer of lime and small stones placed over the outer surface of this arch; and, thirdly, the
roof is finished by being covered externally with a layer of oblong, rhomboid stones, laid
in regular courses from the top of the side walls onwards and upwards to the ridge of the building.
This outer coating of squared stones is seen in the external surface of the roof to the left
in one sketch (see woodcut, Fig. 9); but a more perfect and better preserved specimen of it
exists immediately above the entrance-door, as shown in another of Mr. Drummond's drawings
(see woodcut, Fig. 6).

The arch or vault of the roof has one peculiarity, perhaps worthy of notice (and seen in the
preceding woodcut, Fig. 9). The central keystone of the arch has the form of a triangular wedge,
or of the letter V, a type seen in other rude and primitive arches. Interiorly, a similar keystone
line appears to run along the length of the vault, but not always perfectly straight; and the
whole figure of the arch distinctly affects the pointed form.

Several years ago I first saw the building which I have described when visiting Inchcolm with
Captain Thomas, Dr. Daniel Wilson, and some other friends, and its peculiar antique character
and strong rude masonry struck all of us, for it seemed different in type from any of the other
buildings around it. Last year I had an opportunity of visiting several of the oldest remaining
Irish churches and oratories at Glendalough, Killaloe, Clonmacnoise, and elsewhere, and the
features of some of them strongly recalled to my recollection the peculiarities of the old
building in Inchcolm, and left on my mind a strong desire to re-inspect it. Later in the year
Mr. Fraser and I visited Inchcolm in company with our greatest Scottish authority on such an
ecclesiological question--Mr. Joseph Robertson. That visit confirmed us in the idea, first,
that the small building in question was of a much more ancient type than any portion of the
neighbouring monastery; and, secondly, that in form and construction it presented the principal
architectural characters of the earliest and oldest Irish churches and oratories. More lately
I had an opportunity of showing the various original sketches which Mr. Drummond had made for
me of the building to the highest living authority on every question connected with early Irish
and Scoto-Irish ecclesiastical architecture--namely, Dr. Petrie of Dublin; and before asking
anything as to its site, etc., he at once pronounced the building to be "a Columbian cell."

The tradition, as told to our party by the cicerone on the island on my first visit, was, that
this neglected outbuilding was the place in which "King Alexander lived for three days with
the hermit of Inchcolm." There was nothing in the rude architecture and general character of
the building to gainsay such a tradition, but the reverse; and, on the contrary, when we turn
to the notice of a visit of Alexander I. to the island in 1123, as given by our earliest Scotch
historians, their account of the little chapel or oratory which he found there perfectly applies
to the building which I have been describing. In order to prove this, let me quote the history
of Alexander's visit from the Scotichronicon of Fordun and Bower, the Extracta e Cronicis Scocie,
and the Scotorum Historia of Hector Boece.[55]

The Scotichronicon contains the following account of King Alexander's adventure and temporary
sojourn in Inchcolm:--

   "About the year of our Lord 1123, under circumstances not less
   wonderful than miraculous, a monastery was founded on the island
   Aemonia, near Inverkeithing. For when the noble and most Christian
   Sovereign Alexander, first of this name, was, in pursuit of some
   state business, making a passage across the Queensferry, suddenly a
   tremendous storm arose, and the fierce south-west wind forced the
   vessel and sailors to make, for safety's sake, for the island of
   Aemonia, where at that time lived an island hermit (eremita
   insulanus), who, belonging to the service of St. Columba, devoted
   himself sedulously to his duties at a certain little chapel there
   (ad quandam inibi capellulam), content with such poor food as the
   milk of one cow and the shell and small sea fishes which he could
   collect. On the hermit's slender stores the king and his suite of
   companions, detained by the storm, gratefully lived for three
   consecutive days. But on the day before landing, when in very great
   danger from the sea, and tossed by the fury of the tempest, the king
   despaired of life, he vowed to the Saint, that if he should bring him
   and his companions safe to the island, he would leave on it such a
   memorial to his honour as would render it a future asylum and refuge
   to sailors and those that were shipwrecked. Therefore, it was decided
   on this occasion that he should found there a monastery of
   prebendaries, such as now exists; and this the more so, as he had
   always venerated St. Columba with special honour from his youth; and
   chiefly because his own parents were for several years childless and
   destitute of the solace of offspring, until, beseeching St. Columba
   with suppliant devotion, they gloriously obtained what they sought
   for so long a time with anxious desire. Hence the origin of the
   verse--

     'M.C, ter, I. bis, et X literis à tempore Christi,
     Aemon, tunc ab Alexandro fundata fuisti
     Scotorum primo. Structorem Canonicorum
     Transferat ex imo Deus hunc ad alta polorum.'"[56]

The preceding account of King Alexander's visit to Inchcolm, and his founding of the monastery
there, occurs in the course of the fifth book (lib. v. cap. 37) of the Scotichronicon, without
its being marked whether the passage itself exists in the original five books of Fordun, or
in one of the additions made to them by the Abbot Walter Bower.[57] The first of these writers,
John of Fordun, lived, it will be recollected, in the reigns of Robert II. and III., and wrote
about 1380; while Walter Bower, the principal continuator of Fordun's history, was Abbot of
Inchcolm from 1418 to the date of his death in 1449.

In the work known under the title of Extracta e Variis Cronicis Scocie,[58] there is an account
of Alexander's fortuitous visit to Inchcolm, exactly similar to the above, but in an abridged
form. Mr. Tytler, in his History of Scotland,[59] supposes the Extracta to have been written
posterior to the time of Fordun, and prior to the date of Bower's Continuation of the Scotichronicon,--a
conjecture which one or more passages in the work entirely disprove.[60] If the opinion of
Mr. Tytler had been correct, it would have been important as a proof that the story of the
royal adventure of Alexander upon Inchcolm was written by Fordun, and not by Bower, inasmuch
as the two accounts in the Scotichronicon and in the Extracta are on this, as on most other
points, very similar, the Extracta being merely somewhat curtailed. As evidence of this remark,
let me here cite the original words of the Extracta:--

   "Emonia insula seu monasterium, nunc Sancti Columbe de Emonia, per
   dictum regem fundatur circa annum Domini millesimum vigesimum quartum
   miraculose. Nam cum idem nobilis rex transitum faciens per Passagium
   Regine, exorta tempestas valida, flante Africo, ratem cum naucleris,
   vix vita comite, compulit applicare ad insulam Emoniam, ubi tunc
   degebat quidam heremita insulanus, qui seruicio Sancti Columbe
   deditus, ad quamdam inibi capellulam tenui victu, utpote lacte vnius
   vacce et conchis ac pisiculis marinis contentatus, sedule se dedit,
   de quibus cibariis rex cum suis, tribus diebus, vento compellente,
   reficitur. Et quia Sanctum Columbam a juventute dilexit, in periculo
   maris, ut predicitur, positus, vouit se, si ad prefatam insulam
   veheretur incolumis, aliquid memoria dignum ibidem facere, et sic
   monasterium ibidem construxit canonicorum, et dotauit."[61]

I shall content myself with citing from our older Scottish historians one more account of Alexander's
adventure upon Inchcolm--namely, that given by Hector Boece, Principal of King's College, Aberdeen,
in his Scotorum Historia, a work written during the reign of James V., and first published
in 1526. In this work, after alluding to the foundation of the Abbey of Scone, Boece proceeds
to state that--(to quote the translation of the passage as given by Bellenden)--"Nocht long
efter King Alexander come in Sanct Colmes Inche; quhair he was constrainit, be violent tempest,
to remane thre dayis, sustenand his life with skars fude, be ane heremit that dwelt in the
said inche: in quhilk, he had ane litill chapell, dedicat in the honoure of Sanct Colme. Finaly,
King Alexander, becaus his life was saiffit be this heremit, biggit ane Abbay of Chanonis regular,
in the honour of Sanct Colme; and dotat it with sindry landes and rentis, to sustene the abbot
and convent thairof."[62]

As Bellenden's translation of Boece's work does not in this and other parts adhere by any means
strictly to the author's original context, I will add the account given by Boece in that historian's
own words:[63]

   "Nec ita multo post Fortheæ rex æstuarium trajiciens, coorta
   tempestate in Emoniam insulam appulsus descendit, repertoque Divi
   Columbæ saccllo, viroque Eremita, triduo tempestatis vi permanere
   illic coactus est, exiguo sustentatus cibo, quem apud Eremitam
   quendam sacelli custodem reperiebat, nec tamen comitantium
   multitudini ulla ex parte sufficiente. Itaque eo periculo defunctus
   Divo Columbæ ædem vovit. Nec diu voto damnatus fuit, coenobio paulo
   post Regularium, ordinis Divi Augustini extructo, agrisque atque
   redditibus ad sumptus eorum collatis."

That the very small and antique-looking edifice which I have described as still standing on
Inchcolm is identically the little chapel or cell spoken of by Fordun and Boece as existing
on the island at the time of Alexander's visit to it, upwards of seven centuries ago, is a
matter admitting of great probability, but not of perfect legal proof. One or two irrecoverable
links are wanting in the chain of evidence to make that proof complete; and more particularly
do we lack for this purpose any distinct allusions or notices among our mediæval annalists,
of the existence or character of the building during these intervening seven centuries, except,
indeed, we consider the notice of it which I have cited from the Scotichronicon "ad quandam
inibi capellulam," to be written by the hand of Walter Bower, and to have a reference to the
little chapel as it existed and stood about the year 1430, when Bower wrote his additions to
Fordun, while living and ruling on Inchcolm as Abbot of its Monastery.

But various circumstances render it highly probable that the old stone-roofed cell still standing
on the island is the ancient chapel or oratory in which the island hermit (eremita insulanus)
lived and worshipped at the time of Alexander's royal but compulsory visit in 1123. I have
already adduced in favour of this belief the very doubtful and imperfect evidence of tradition,
and the fact that this little building itself is, in its whole architectural style and character,
evidently far more rude, primitive, and ancient, than any of the extensive monastic structures
existing on the island, and that have been erected from the time of Alexander downwards. In
support of the same view there are other and still more valuable pieces of corroborative proof,
which perhaps I may be here excused from now dwelling upon with a little more fullness and detail.

The existing half-ruinous cell answers, I would first venture to remark--and answers most fitly
and perfectly--to the two characteristic appellations used respectively in the Scotichronicon
and in the Historiæ Scotorum, to designate the cell or oratory of the Inchcolm anchorite at
the time of King Alexander's three days' sojourn on the island. These two appellations we have
already found in the preceding quotations to be capellula and sacellum. As applied to the small,
rude, vaulted edifice to which I have endeavoured to draw the attention of the Society, both
terms are strikingly significant. The word used by Fordun or Bower in the Scotichronicon to
designate the oratory of the Inchcolm anchorite, namely "capellula," or little chapel, is very
descriptive of a diminutive church or oratory, but at the same time very rare. Du Cange, in
his learned glossary, only adduces one example of its employment. It occurs in the testament
of Guido, Bishop of Auxerrè, in the thirteenth century (1270), who directs that "oratorium
seu capellulam super sepulchrum dicti Robini construent." This passage further proves the similar
signification of the two names of oratorium and capellula. The other appellation "sacellum,"
applied by Boece to the hermit's chapel, is a better known and more classical word than the
capellula of the Scotichronicon. It is, as is well known, a diminutive from sacer, as tenellus
is from tener, macellus from macer, etc.; and Cicero himself has left us a complete definition
of the word, for he has described "sacellum" as "locus parvus deo sacratus cum ara."[64]

Again, in favour of the view that the existing building on Inchcolm is the actual chapel or
oratory in which the insular anchorite lived and worshipped there in the twelfth century, it
may be further argued, that, where they were not constructed of perishable materials, it was
in consonance with the practice of these early times to preserve carefully houses and buildings
of religious note, as hallowed relics. Most of the old oratories and houses raised by the early
Irish and Scottish saints were undoubtedly built of wattles, wood, or clay, and other perishable
materials, and of necessity were soon lost.[65] But when of a more solid and permanent construction,
they were sometimes sedulously preserved, and piously and punctually visited for long centuries
as holy shrines. There still exist in Ireland various stone oratories of early Irish saints
to which this remark applies--as, for example, that of St. Kevin at Glendalough, of St. Columba
at Kells, those of St. Molua and St. Flannan at Killaloe, of St. Benan on Aranmore, St. Ceannanach
on Inishmaan, etc. etc. Let us take the first two examples which I have named, to illustrate
more fully my remark. St. Kevin died at an extreme old age, in the year 618; and St. Columba
died a few years earlier, namely in the year 597. When speaking of the two houses at Glendalough
and Kells, respectively bearing the names of these two early Irish saints, Dr. Petrie--and
I certainly could not quote either a higher or a more cautious antiquarian authority--observes,
"I think we have every reason to believe that the buildings called St. Columba's House at Kells,
and St. Kevin's House at Glendalough, buildings so closely resembling each other in every respect,
were erected by the persons whose names they bear."[66] If Dr. Petrie's idea be correct, and
he repeats it elsewhere,[67] then these houses were constructed about the end of the sixth
century, and their preservation for so long an intervening period was no doubt in a great measure
the result of their being looked upon, protected, and visited, as spots hallowed by having
been the earthly dwellings of such esteemed saints.

In the great work on The Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, which I have just quoted--a
work, let me add, overflowing with the richest and ripest antiquarian lore, and yet written
with all the fascination of a romance--Dr. Petrie, after describing the two houses I speak
of, St. Kevin's and St. Columba's, farther states his belief that both of these buildings "served
the double purpose of a habitation and an oratory."[70] They were, in this view, the residences,
as well as the chapels, of their original inhabitants; and subsequently the house of St. Kevin
at Glendalough, of St. Flannan at Killaloe, etc., were publicly used as chapels or churches.[71]
In all probability the capellula of the hermit on Inchcolm was, in the same way, at once both
the habitation and the oratory of this solitary anchorite, and apparently the only building
on the island when Alexander was tossed upon its shores. The sacred character of the humble
cell, as the dwelling and oratory of a holy Columbite hermit, and possibly also the interest
attached to it as an edifice which had afforded for three days such welcome and grateful shelter
to King Alexander and his suite, would in all probability--judging from the numerous analogies
which we might trace elsewhere--led to its preservation, and perhaps its repair and restoration,
when, a few years afterwards, the monastery rose in its immediate neighbourhood, in pious fulfilment
of the royal vow.[72]

Indeed, that the holy cell or chapel of the Inchcolm anchorite would, under the circumstances
in question, be carefully saved and preserved by King Alexander I., is a step which we would
specially expect, from all that we know of the religious character of that prince, and his
peculiar love for sacred buildings and the relics of saints. For, according to Fordun, Alexander
"vir literatus et pius" "erat in construendis ecclesiis, et reliquis Sanctorum perquirendis,
in vestibus sacerdotalibus librisque sacris conficiendis et ordinandis, studiosissimus."

For the antiquity of the Inchcolm cell there yet remains an additional argument, and perhaps
the strongest of all. I have already stated that, in its whole architectural type and features,
the cell or oratory is manifestly older, and more rude and primitive, than any of the diverse
monastic buildings erected on the island from the twelfth century downwards. But more, the
Inchcolm cell or oratory corresponds in all its leading architectural features and specialities
with the cells, oratories, or small chapels, raised from the sixth and eighth, down to the
tenth and twelfth centuries, in different parts of Ireland, and in some districts in Scotland,
by the early Irish ecclesiastics, and their Irish or Scoto-Irish disciples and followers, of
these distant times and dates.

It is now acknowledged on all sides, that, though not the first preachers of Christianity in
Scotland,[73] the Irish were at least by far the most active and the most influential of our
early missionaries; and truly a new epoch began in Scottish history when, in the year 563,
St. Columba, "pro Christo peregrinari volens," embarked, with his twelve companions, and sailing
across from Ireland to the west coast of Scotland, founded the monastery of Iona. It is certainly
to St. Columba and his numerous disciples and followers that the spread of Christianity in
this country, during the succeeding two or three centuries, is principally due. At the same
time we must not forget that numerous other Irish saints in these early times engaged in missionary
visits to Scotland, and founded churches there, which still bear their names, as (to quote
part of the enumeration of Dr. Reeves) St. Finbar, St. Comgall, St. Blaan, St. Brendan, the
two St. Fillans, St. Ronan, St. Flannan, St. Beranch, St. Catan, St. Merinus, St. Mernoc, St.
Molaise, St. Munna, St. Vigean, etc.[74]

Along with their Christian doctrines and teachings these Irish ecclesiastics brought over to
Scotland their peculiar religious habits and customs, and, amongst other things, imported into
this country their architectural knowledge and practices with regard to sacred and monastic
buildings. In the western parts of Scotland, more particularly, numerous ecclesiastical structures
were raised similar to those which were peculiar to Ireland; and various material vestiges
of these still exist.[75] In the eastern parts of Scotland, to which the personal teaching
of the Irish missionaries speedily spread, we have still remaining two undoubted examples of
the repetition in this country of Irish ecclesiastical architecture in the well-known Round
Towers of Abernethy and Brechin, and perhaps we have a third example in the stone-roofed oratory
of Inchcolm.

Various ancient stone oratories still exist in a more or less perfect condition in different
parts of Ireland, sometimes standing by themselves, sometimes with the remains of a round beehive-shaped
cell or dwelling near them, and sometimes forming one of a group of churches, or of a series
of monastic buildings. Such, for example, are the small chapels or oratories of St. Gobnet,
St. Benen, and St. MacDuach, in the Isles of Aran,[76] of St. Senan on Bishop's Island, of
St. Molua on Friar's Island, Killaloe, the Leabha Mollayga near Mitchelstown, in the County
Cork, and probably the so-called dormitory of St. Declan at Ardmore. Among the old sacred buildings
of Ireland we find, in fact, two kinds or classes of churches, the "ecclesiæ majores" and "minores,"
if we may call them so, and principally distinguished from each other by their comparative
length or size. It appears both from the remains of the first class which still exist, and
from the incidental notices which occur of their erection, measurements, etc., in the ancient
annals and hagiology of Ireland, that the larger abbey or cathedral churches of that country,
whose date of foundation is anterior to the twelfth century, were oblong quadrangular buildings,
which rarely, if ever, exceeded the length of 60 feet, and were sometimes less. In the Tripartite
Life of St. Patrick, he is described as prescribing 60 feet as the length of the church of
Donagh Patrick.[77] This "was also," says Dr. Petrie, "the measure of the other celebrated
chapels erected by him throughout Ireland, and imitated as a model by his successors."[78]
"Indeed," he further observes, "that the Irish, who have been ever remarkable for a tenacious
adherence to their ancient customs, should preserve with religious veneration that form and
size of the primitive church introduced by the first teachers of Christianity, is only what
might be naturally expected, and what we find to have been the fact. We see," Dr. Petrie adds,
"the result of this feeling exhibited very remarkably in the conservation, down to a late period,
of the humblest and rudest oratories of the first ecclesiastics in all those localities where
Irish manners and customs remained, and where such edifices, too small for the services of
religion, would not have been deemed worthy of conservation, but from such feeling."[79]

The second or lesser type of the early Irish churches, or, in other words, of the humble and
rude oratories to which Dr. Petrie refers in the last sentence of the preceding paragraph,
were of a similar form, but of a much smaller size than the larger or abbey churches.[80] We
have ample and accurate evidence of this, both in the oratories which still remain, and in
a fragment of the Brehon laws, referring to the different payments which ecclesiastical artificers
received according as the building was--(1.) a duirtheach or small chapel or oratory; (2.)
a large abbey church or damhliag, etc.[81]

Generally, according to Dr. Petrie, the average of the smaller type of churches or oratories
may be stated to be about 15 feet in length, and 10 feet in breadth, though they show no fixed
similarity in regard to size.[82] "In the general plan," he observes, "of this class of buildings
there was an equal uniformity. They had a single doorway, always placed in the centre of the
west wall,[83] and were lighted by a single window placed in the centre of the east wall, and
a stone altar usually, perhaps always, placed beneath this window."[84] In these leading architectural
features (with an exception to which I shall immediately advert), the Inchcolm cell or oratory
corresponds to the ancient cells or oratories existing in Ireland, and presents the same ancient
style of masonry--the same splaying internally of the window which is so common in the ancient
Irish churches, both large and small--and the same configuration of doorway which is seen in
many of them, the opening forming it being narrower at the top than at the bottom.

In the Inchcolm oratory there is one exception, as I have just stated, to the general type
and features of the ancient Irish oratory. I allude to the position of the door, which is placed
in the south side of the Inchcolm cell, instead of being placed, as usual, in the western gable
of the building. But this position of the door in the south wall is not without example in
ancient Irish oratories that still exist.[85] The door occupies in this respect the same position
in the Inchcolm oratory as in an oratory on Bishop's Island upon the coast of Clare, the erection
of which is traditionally ascribed to St. Senan, who lived in the sixth century. This oratory
of St. Senan (says Mr. Wakeman) "measures 18 feet by 12; the walls are in thickness 2 feet
7 inches. The doorway, which occupies an unusual position in the south side, immediately adjoining
the west end wall, is 6 feet in height, and 1 foot 10 inches wide at the top, 2 feet 4 inches
at the bottom. The east window splays externally, and in this respect is probably unique in
Ireland."[86][87] These peculiarities are shown in the accompanying woodcut, Fig. 10, taken
from Mr. Wakeman's Handbook of Irish Antiquities.

The Irish ecclesiastics did not scruple to deviate from the established plans of their sacred
buildings, when the necessities of individual cases required it. In the Firth of Forth west
winds are the most prevalent of all; and sometimes the western blast is still as fierce and
long continued as when of old it drove King Alexander on the shores of Inchcolm. The hermit's
cell or oratory is placed on perhaps the most protected spot on the island; and yet it would
have been scarcely habitable with an open window exposing its interior to the east, and with
a door placed directly opposite it in the western gable. It has been rendered, however, much
more fit for a human abode by the door being situated in the south wall; and the more so, because
the ledge of rock against which the south-west corner of the building abuts, protects in a
great degree this south door from the direct effects of the western storm. The building itself
is narrower than the generality of the Irish oratories, but this was perhaps necessitated by
another circumstance, for its breadth was probably determined by the immovable basaltic blocks
lying on either side of it.

The head of the doorway in the Inchcolm oratory is, as pointed out in a preceding page, peculiar
in this respect, that externally it is constructed on the principle of the radiating arch,
whilst internally it is built on the principle of the horizontal arch. But in other early Irish
ecclesiastical buildings in Scotland, as well as in Ireland, the external and internal aspect
of the doorway is sometimes thus constructed on opposite principles. In the round tower, for
example, of Abernethy, the head of the doorway externally is formed of a large single stone
laid horizontally, and having a semicircular opening cut out of the lower side of the horizontal
block; while the head of the doorway internally is constructed of separate stones on the plan
of the radiating arch.

One striking circumstance in the Inchcolm oratory--viz., its vaulted or arched roof, has been
already sufficiently described; and, in describing it, I have stated that the arch is of a
pointed form. In many of the ancient Irish oratories the roof was of wood, and covered with
rushes or shingles; and most of them had their walls even constructed of wood or oak, as the
term duir-theach originally signifies. But apparently, though the generic name duir-theach
still continued to be applied to them, some of them were constructed, from a very early period,
entirely of stone; and of these the roofs were occasionally formed of the same material as
the walls, and arched or vaulted, as in the Inchcolm oratory. In speaking of the construction
of the primitive larger churches of Ireland, Dr. Petrie states, that their "roof appears to
have been constructed generally of wood, even where their walls were of stone;" while in the
oratories or primitive smaller stone churches, "the roofs (says he) generally appear to have
been constructed of stone, their sides forming at the ridge a very acute angle."[88] The selection
of the special materials of which both walls and roof were composed, was no doubt, in many
cases, regulated and determined by the comparative facility or difficulty with which these
materials were obtained. At no time, perhaps, did timber exist on Inchcolm that could have
been used in constructing such a building; whilst plenty of stones fit for the purpose abounded
on the island, and there was abundance of lime on the neighbouring shore. Stone-roofed oratories
of a more complex and elaborate architectural character than that of Inchcolm still exist in
Ireland, and of a supposed very early date. We have already found, for instance, Dr. Petrie
stating that "we have every reason to believe" that the stone-roofed oratories known as St.
Kevin's House at Glendalough, and St. Columba's House at Kells, "were erected by the persons
whose names they bear,"[89] and consequently that they are as old as the sixth century. These
two oratories, are, as it were, two storeyed buildings; for each consists of a lower and larger
stone-arched or vaulted chamber below, and of another higher and smaller stone-arched or vaulted
chamber or over-croft above. The old small stone-roofed church still standing at Killaloe,
and the erection of which Dr. Petrie is[90] inclined to ascribe to St. Flannan in the seventh
century[91] presents also in its structure this type of double stone-vault or arch, as shown
in the following section of it by Mr. Fergusson.[92] When treating of the early Irish oratories,
Mr. Fergusson observes, "One of the peculiarities of these churches is, that they were nearly
all designed to have stone roofs, no wood being used in their construction. The section (Fig.
11) of the old church at Killaloe, belonging probably to the tenth century, will explain how
this was generally managed. The nave was roofed with a tunnel-vault with a pointed one over
it, on which the roofing slabs were laid." Mr. Fergusson adduces Cormac's Chapel on the Rock
of Cashel, St. Kevin's House or Kitchen at Glendalough, which he thinks "may belong to the
seventh century;" and St. Columba's House at Kells, "and several others in various parts of
Ireland, as all displaying the same peculiarity" in the stone roofing.

Like some oratories and churches in Ireland, more simple and primitive than those just alluded
to, the building on Inchcolm is an edifice consisting of a single vaulted chamber, analogous
in form to the over-croft of the larger oratories or minor churches. The accompanying section
of the old and small stone-roofed church of Killaghy, at the village of Cloghereen, near Killarney,
is the result of an accurate examination of that building by Mr. Brash of Cork. Its stones
look better dressed and more equal in size, but otherwise it is so exactly a section of the
Inchcolm oratory, that it might well be regarded as a plan of it, intended to display the figure
and mode of construction of its walls and stone roof, formed as that roof is of three layers--viz.,
1. The layer consisting of the proper stones of the arch of the cell interiorly; 2. The layer
of outer roofing stones placed exteriorly; and 3. The intermediate layer of lime, and grit
or small stones, cementing and binding together these other two courses.[93]

It was once suggested to me as an argument against the Irish architectural character and antiquity
of the Inchcolm oratory, that its vault or arch was slightly but distinctly pointed, and that
pointed arches did not become an architectural feature in ecclesiastical buildings before the
latter half of the twelfth century. But if there existed any truth in this objection, it would
equally disprove the early character and antiquity of those ecclesiastical buildings at Killaloe,
Glendalough, and Kells, in which the arch of the over-croft is of the same pointed form. The
over-croft in King Cormac's Chapel at Cashel shows also a similar pointed vault or arch; and
no one now ventures to challenge it as an established fact in ecclesiological history, that
this edifice was consecrated in 1134, or at a date anterior to the introduction[94] of Gothic
church architecture or pointed arches in sacred buildings in England.[95] In truth, the pointed
form of arched vault was sometimes used by Irish ecclesiastics structurally, and for the sake
of more simply and easily sustaining the stone roof, long before that arch became the distinctive
mark of any architectural style. Indeed, in the very oldest existing Irish oratory--viz. that
of Gallerus, which is generally reckoned[96] as early as, if not earlier than, the time of
St. Patrick, or about the fifth century--the stone roof, though constructed on the principle
of the horizontal arch, is of the pointed form. The whole section of the oratory of Gallerus
is that of a pointed arch commencing directly at the ground line.[97] "I have," Mr. Brash writes
me, and I could not well quote a better judge or more learned ecclesiastic antiquary, "carefully
examined the oratory at Inchcolm, and it is my conviction that the pointed arch supporting
the stone roof does not in any wise whatever militate against its antiquity, particularly when
taking it in connection with the extreme rudeness and simplicity of the rest of the structure,
and the total absence of any pointed form in either door or window."[98]

Let me add one word more as to the probable or possible age of the capellula on Inchcolm. Granting,
for a moment, that the building on Inchcolm is the small chapel existing on the island when
visited by King Alexander in 1123, have we any reason to suppose the structure to be one of
a still earlier date? Inchcolm was apparently a favourite place of sepulture up, indeed, to
comparatively late times; and may possibly have been so in old Pagan times, and previously
to the introduction of Christianity into Scotland. The soil of the fields to the west of the
monastery is, when turned over, found still full of fragments of human bones. Allan de Mortimer,
Lord of Aberdour, gave to the Abbey of Inchcolm a moiety of the lands of his town of Aberdour
for leave of burial in the church of the monastery.[100] In Scottish history various allusions
occur with regard to persons of note, and especially the ecclesiastics of Dunkeld, being carried
for sepulture to Inchcolm.[101] The Danish chiefs who, after the invasion of Fife, were buried
in the cemetery of Inchcolm, were, as we have already found, interred there in the seventh
or last year of King Duncan's reign, or in 1039, nearly a century before the date of Alexander's
visit to the island. But if there was, a century before Alexander's visit, a place of burial
on the island, there was almost certainly also this or some other chapel attached to the place,
as a Christian cemetery had in these early times always a Christian chapel or church of some
form attached to it. The style and architecture of the building is apparently, as I have already
stated, as old, or even older than this; or, at all events, it corresponds in[102] its features
to Irish houses and oratories that are regarded as having been built two or three centuries
before the date even of the of the Danes in the island.

The manuscript copy of the Scotichronicon, which belonged to the Abbey of Cupar, and which,
like the other old manuscripts of the Scotichronicon, was written before the end of the fifteenth
century,[103] describes Inchcolm as the temporary abode of St. Columba himself,[104] when he
was engaged as a missionary among the Scots and Picts. In enumerating the islands of the Firth
of Forth, Inchcolm is mentioned in the Cupar manuscript as "alia insuper insula ad occidens
distans ab Inchcketh, quæ vocatur Æmonia, inter Edinburch et Inverkethyn; quam quondam incoluit,
dum Pictis et Scotis fidem prædicavit, Sanctus Columba Abbas."[105] We do not know upon what
foundation, if any, this statement is based; but it is very evidently an allegation upon which
no great assurance can be placed. Nor, in alluding to this statement here, have I any intention
of arguing that this cell might even have served St. Columba both as a house and oratory, such
as the house of the Saint still standing at Kells is believed by Dr. Petrie to have possibly been.

The nameless religious recluse whom Alexander found residing on Inchcolm is described by Fordun
and Boece as leading there the life of a hermit (Eremita), though a follower of the order or
rule of Saint Columba. The ecclesiastical writers of these early times not unfrequently refer
to such self-denying and secluded anchorites. The Irish Annals are full of their obits. Thus,
for example, under the single year 898, the Four Masters[106] record the death of, at least,
four who had passed longer or shorter periods of their lives as hermits, namely, "Suairleach,
anchorite and Bishop of Treoit;" "Cosgrach, who was called Truaghan [the meagre], anchorite
of Inis-Cealtra;" "Tuathal, anchorite;" "Ceallach, anchorite and Bishop of Ard-Macha;"--and
probably we have the obit of a fifth entered in this same year under the designation of "Caenchomhrac
of the Caves of Inis-bo-fine," as these early ascetics sometimes betook themselves to caves,
natural or artificial, using them for their houses and oratories.[107] Various early English
authors also allude to the habitations and lives of different anchorites belonging to our own
country. Thus the venerable Bede--living himself as a monk in the Northumbrian monastery of
Jarrow, in the early part of the eighth century--refers by name to several, as to Hemgils,
who, as a religious solitary (solitarius), passed the latter portion of his life sustained
by coarse bread and cold water; and to Wicbert,[108] who, "multos annos in Hibernia peregrinus
anchoreticam in magna perfectione vitam egerat."[109] Reginald of Durham has left a work on
the life, penances, medical and other miracles, of the celebrated St. Godric, who, during the
twelfth century, lived for about forty years as an anchorite in the hermitage of Finchale,
on the river Weir, near Durham.[110] The same author speaks of, as contemporary holy hermits,
St. Elric of Walsingham, and an anchorite at Yareshale, on the Derwent.[111][112] A succession
of hermits occupied a cell near Norham.[113] Small islands appear to have been specially selected
by the early anchorets for their heremitical retreats. Hereberct, the friend of St. Cuthbert,
lived, according to Bede, an anchoret life upon one of the islands in the lake of Derwentwater;
and St. Cuthbert himself, Ethelwald, and Felgeld, when they aspired to the rank of anchoretish
perfection (gradum anchoreticæ sublimitatis), successively betook themselves for this purpose
to Farne, on the coast of Northumberland, a small isle about eight or nine miles south of Lindisfarne.[114]
Among other anchorets who subsequently lived on Farne, Reginald incidentally mentions Aelric,
Bartholomew, and Aelwin.[115] On Coquet Island, lying also off the Northumbrian coast, St.
Henry the Dane led the life of a religious hermit, and died about the year 1120.[116] Inchcolm
is not the only island in the Firth of Forth which is hallowed by the reputation of having
been the residence of anchorets, seeking for scenes in which they might practise uninterrupted
devotion. Thus, St. Baldred or Balther lived for some time, during the course of the seventh
century, as a religious recluse, upon the rugged and precipitous island of the Bass, as stated
by Boece, Leslie, Dempster,[117] etc., and, as we know with more certainty from a poem written--upwards
now of one thousand years ago--by a native of this country, the celebrated Alcuin.[118] The
followers of the order of St. Columba who desired to follow a more ascetic life than that which
the society of his religious houses and monasteries afforded to its ordinary members, sometimes
withdrew (observes Dr. Reeves[120]) to a solitary place in the neighbourhood of the monastery,
where they enjoyed undisturbed meditation, without breaking the fraternal bond. Such, in 634,
was Beccan, the "solitarius," as he is designated in Cummian's contemporary Paschal letter
to Segene, the Abbot of Iona; and such was Finan, the hermit of Darrow, in the words of Adamnan,
"vitam multis anchoreticam annis irreprehensibiliter ducebat." According to the evidence of
the Four Masters, an anchorite held the Abbacy of Iona in 747; another anchorite was Abbot-elect
in 935; and a third was made Bishop in 964[121] "The abode of such anchorites was (adds Dr.
Reeves) called in Irish a 'desert' (Dysart), from the Latin desertum; and as the heremitical
life was held in such honour among the Scotic Churches, we frequently find this word 'desert'
an element in religious nomenclature. The charters of the Columbian House at Kells show that
a "desert" existed in connection with that institution. Could the old building or capellula
on Inchcolm have served as a "desert" to the Monastery there?[122]

The preceding remarks have spun out to a most unexpected extent; and I have to apologise both
for their extravagant length and rambling character. At the same time, however, I believe that
it would be considered an object of no small interest if it could be shown to be at all probable
that we had still near us a specimen, however rude and ruinous, of early Scoto-Irish architecture.
All authorities now acknowledge the great influence which, from the sixth to the eleventh or
twelfth century, the Irish Church and Irish clergy exercised over the conversion and civilisation
of Scotland. But on the eastern side of the kingdom we have no known remains of Scoto-Irish
ecclesiastical architecture except the beautiful and perfect Round Tower of Brechin,[123] and
the ruder and probably older Round Tower of Abernethy. If, to these two instances, we dare
to conjoin a specimen of a house or oratory of the same Scoto-Irish style, and of the same
ancient period, such as the Oratory on Inchcolm seems to me probably to be, we would have in
such a specimen an addition of some moment to this limited and meagre list. Besides, it would
surely not be uninteresting could we feel certain that we have still standing, within eight
or ten miles of Edinburgh, a building whose roof had covered the head of King Alexander I.,
though it covered it for three days only; for that very circumstance would at the same time
go far to establish another fact, namely, that any such building might claim to be now the
oldest roofed stone habitation in Scotland.[127]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 16: From the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. ii. part iii.]

[Footnote 17: These contributions by the "Abbas Aemoniæ Insulæ" are alluded to by Boece, who
wrote nearly a century afterwards, as one of the works upon which he founded his own Scotorum
Historiæ.--(See his Praefatio, p. 2; and Innes' Critical Essay on the Ancient Inhabitants of
Scotland, vol. i., pp. 218 and 228.) Bower, in a versified colophon, claims the merit of having
completed eleven out of the sixteen books composing the Scotichronicon lib. xvi. cap. 39:--

   "Quinque libros Fordun, undenos auctor arabat,
   Sic tibi clarescit sunt sedecim numero,
   Ergo pro precibus, petimus te, lector eorum," etc.]

[Footnote 18: See Scotichronicon, lib. xiii. cap. 34 and 37; lib. xiv. cap. 38, etc. In 1547
the Duke of Somerset, after the battle of Pinkie, seized upon Inchcolm as a post commanding
"vtterly ye whole vse of the Fryth it self, with all the hauens uppon it," and sent as "elect
Abbot, by God's sufferance, of the monastery of Sainct Coomes Ins, Sir Jhon Luttrell, knight,
with C. hakbutters and l. pioners, to kepe his house and land thear, and ii. rowe barkes, well
furnished with municion, and lxx. mariners to kepe his waters, whereby (naively remarks Patten)
it is thought he shall soon becum a prelate of great power. The perfytnes of his religion is
not alwaies to tarry at home, but sumetime to rowe out abrode a visitacion; and when he goithe,
I haue hard say he taketh alweyes his sumners in barke with hym, which ar very open mouthed,
and neuer talk but they are harde a mile of, so that either for loove of his blessynges, or
feare of his cursinges, he is lyke to be soouveraigne ouer most of his neighbours."--(See Patten's
Account of the late Expedition in Scotlande, dating "out of the parsonage of S. Mary Hill,
London," in Sir John Dalyell's Fragments of Scottish History, pp. 79 and 81.) In Abbot Bower's
time, the island seems to have been provided with some means of defence against these English
attacks; for, in the Scotichronicon, in incidentally speaking of the return of the Abbot and
his canons in October 1421 from the mainland to the island, it is stated that they dared not,
in the summer and autumn, live on the island for fear of the English, for, it is added, the
monastery at that time was not fortified as it is now, "non enim erant tunc, quales ut nunc,
in monasterio munitiones" (lib. xv. cap. 38).]

[Footnote 19: Iona itself has not an air of stiller solitude. Here, within view of the gay
capital, and with half the riches of the Scotland of earlier days spread around them, the brethren
might look forth from their secure retreat on that busy ambitious world, from which, though
close at hand, they were effectually severed.--(Billings' Baronial and Ecclesiastical Antiquities
of Scotland, vol. iii. Note on Inchcolm.)]

[Footnote 20: Alexander Campbell, in his Journey through North Britain (1802), after speaking
of a fort in the east part of Inchcolm having a corps of artillery stationed on it, adds, "so
that in lieu of the pious orisons of holy monks, the orgies of lesser deities are celebrated
here by the sons of Mars," etc., vol. ii. p. 69.]

[Footnote 21: See MS. Records of the Privy Council of Scotland, 23d September 1564, etc.]

[Footnote 22: Bellenden's translation of Boece's History of Scotland, vol. ii. p. 500.]

[Footnote 23: Works of William Drummond, Edinburgh, 1711, p. 7.]

[Footnote 24: Bishop Lesley's History of Scotland, p. 42.]

[Footnote 25: See General Hutton's MSS. in the Advocates' Library, as quoted in Billings' Ecclesiastical
Antiquities, loc. cit.]

[Footnote 26: See his Life in Colgan's Trias Thaumaturga, vol. ii. p. 466.]

[Footnote 27: Scotichronicon, lib. xv. cap. 23.]

[Footnote 28: Scotichronicon, lib. xv. cap. 38.]

[Footnote 29: Ibid. lib. xv. cap. 48.]

[Footnote 30: Images, or statues in wood, of the founders or patrons of churches of the sixth
and seventh centuries, were common in Ireland, and no doubt in the Gaelic portion of Scotland.
Some of these "images" are still preserved in islands on the west coast of Ireland. "St. Barr's
wooden image" was preserved in his church in the island of Barray.--See Martin's Western Isles
of Scotland, pp. 92, 93. But Macaulay, in his History of St. Kilda, p. 75, says, that this
was an image of St. Brandan, to whom the church was consecrated.--P.]

[Footnote 31: Ibid. lib. xiii. cap. 34. When, in 1355, the navy of King Edward came up the
Forth, and "spulyeit" Whitekirk, in East Lothian, still more summary vengeance was taken upon
such sacrilege. For "trueth is (says Bellenden) ane Inglisman spulyeit all the ornamentis that
was on the image of our Lady in the Quhite Kirk; and incontinent the crucifix fel doun on his
head, and dang out his harnis."--(Bellenden's Translation of Hector Boece's Croniklis, lib.
xv. c. 14; vol. ii. p. 446.)]

[Footnote 32: Scotichronicon, lib. xiii. cap. 37.]

[Footnote 33: See George Chalmers' Caledonia, vol. i. p. 320.]

[Footnote 34: "Within the bay call'd Loch-Colmkill, three miles further south, lies Lough Erisort,
which hath an anchoring-place on the south and north."--Martin, p. 4. "The names of the churches
in Lewis Isles, and the saints to whom they were dedicated, are St. Columbkil's, in the island
of that name," etc.--Ibid. p. 27. I suspect that all the churches founded by Columba bore anciently
the name of Columbkill. Bede tells that the saint bore the united name of Columbkill.--Hist.
Ec. v. 9; and all the churches founded by him in Ireland, or places called after him, are,
I think, invariably so designated. Thus also the lake near Mugstot, in Skye, now drained, and
on the island of which the most undoubted remains of a monastic establishment of Columb's time
still exist, was called Lough Columbkill, and the island Inch Columbkill.--P.]

[Footnote 35: See, for example, the notes on this passage in the editions of Steevens and Malone.]

[Footnote 36: Holinshed's Chronicles, vol. v. p. 268.]

[Footnote 37: Scotorum Historiæ, lib. xi. f. 225, 251.]

[Footnote 38: See his great work on the Sculptured Stones of Scotland, plate cxxv. p. 39.]

[Footnote 39: I do not believe that there is a single example of armorial bearings to be found
either in Scotland or Ireland of an earlier date than the close of the twelfth century.--P.]

[Footnote 40: Bellenden's Translation of Boece's Croniklis of Scotland, lib. xii. 2, vol. ii.
p. 258.]

[Footnote 41: Scotorum Historiæ (1526), lib. xii. p. 257.]

[Footnote 42: History of Fife and Kinross, p. 35.]

[Footnote 43: A Tour in Scotland, part ii. p. 210. See also Grose's Antiquities of Scotland
(1797), vol. ii. p. 135.]

[Footnote 44: I feel quite satisfied that this monumental stone is of a much earlier date than
the thirteenth century, and that it is most probably a Danish or Dano-Scottish monument.--P.]

[Footnote 45: In the Buik of the Croniclis of Scotland, or metrical version of the History
of Hector Boece, by William Stewart, lately published under the authority of the Master of
the Rolls, and edited by Mr. Turnbull, there is a description of the Danish monument on Inchcolm
from the personal observation of the translator; and we know that this metrical translation
was finished by the year 1535. The description is interesting, not only from being in this
way a personal observation, but also as showing that, at the above date, the recumbent sculptured
"greit stane," mentioned in the text, was regarded as a monument of the Danish leader, and
that there stood beside it a Stone Cross, which has since unfortunately disappeared. After
speaking of the burial of the Danes--

   Into an yle callit Emonia,
   Sanct Colmis hecht now callit is this da,

and the great quantity of human bones still existing there, he adds in proof--

   As I myself quhilk has bene thair and sene.
   Ane croce of stane thair standis on ane grene,
   Middis the feild quhair that they la ilk one,
   Besyde the croce thair lyis ane greit stane;
   Under the stane, in middis of the plane,
   Their chiftane lyis quhilk in the feild was slane.

(See vol. ii. p. 635). Within the last few months there has been discovered by Mr. Crichton
another sculptured stone on Inchcolm. But the character of the sculptures on it is still uncertain,
as the stone is in a dark corner, the exposed portion of it forming the ceiling of the staircase
of the Tower, and the remainder of the stone being built into, and buried in the wall. The
sculptures are greatly weather-worn, and the stone itself had been used in the original building
of the Tower. The Tower of St. Mary's Church, or of the so-called Cathedral at Iona, is known
to have been erected early in the thirteenth century. Mr. Huband Smith, who believes the Tower
of the Cathedral in Iona, and perhaps the larger portion of the nave and aisles, to be "probably
the erection of the twelfth and next succeeding century," found, in 1844, on the abacus of
one of the supporting columns, the inscription "DONALDUS OBROLCHAN FECIT HOC OPUS;" and already
this inscription has been broken and mutilated.--(See Ulster Journal of Archæology, vol. i.
p. 86.) The obit of a person of this name, and probably of this builder, occurs, as Dr. Reeves
has shown, in the Annals of Ulster in 1203, and in the Annals of the Four Masters in 1202;
and Dr. Reeves considers the Church or Cathedral at Iona as "an edifice of the early part of
the thirteenth century."--(Life of Columba, pp. 411 and 416.) But the Tower of the Church of
Inchcolm is so similar in its architectural forms and details to that of Icolmkill, that it
is evidently a structure nearly, if not entirely, of the same age; and the new choir (novum
chorum) built to the church in 1265 (see Scotichronicon, lib. x. c. 20) is apparently, as seen
by its remaining masonic connections, posterior in age to the Tower upon which it abuts. Hence
we are, perhaps, fairly entitled to infer that this sculptured stone thus incidentally used
in the construction of the Tower on Inchcolm, existed on the island long, at least, before
the thirteenth century, as by that time it was already very weather-worn, and consequently
old.[46]]

[Footnote 46: I, too, consider this church to be of the early part of the thirteenth century.
Parts of it, however, I believe to be of the twelfth century. I allude particularly to that
portion on one of the columns of which the name of the builder appears, and who, I have little
doubt, was the eminent person whose death--1202--is recorded by the Annalists. Pinkerton, vol.
ii. p. 258, is in error in supposing any portion of the church to be of the eleventh century.
The family of the O'Brolchans were of distinguished rank in the county of Derry, and intimately
connected with the churches there. See my notices of them in the Ordnance Memoir of the Parish
of Temple More, pp. 21, 22, 29. It may be worthy of remark that this family of O'Brolchain,
or a branch of it, appear to have been eminent, hereditarily, after the Irish usage, as architects
or builders. At the year 1029 the Annals of Ulster record the death of Maolbride O'Brolchan,
"chief mason of Ireland." And at the year 1097, the death of Maelbrighde Mac-an-tsaeir (son
of the mason) O'Brolchan. And, lastly, we have the name of Donald O'Brolchan as the architect
of the great church at Iona. But if this Donald be the person whose death is recorded in the
Annals as "a noble senior" in 1202, that part of the building in which the inscription is found
must be surely of the twelfth century; and the style of its architecture supports that conclusion.--P.]

[Footnote 47: Twelfth.--P.]

[Footnote 48: Square recesses or ambries of this kind are common in the most ancient Irish
oratories.--P.]

[Footnote 49: The unusual breadth, 4 feet, of this doorway, is perhaps the only feature in
the structure likely to excite a doubt of its early antiquity. I cannot remember ever having
seen in any very ancient church or oratory in Ireland a doorway so wide. The widest doorway
that I have met with is, I think, that of the great church at Glandelough, which is 3 feet
10 inches wide at its base. The usual width in doorways of small churches and oratories is
from 2 feet to 2 feet 10 inches.--P.]

[Footnote 50: When I first visited Inchcolm the ancient cell described in the present paper
was the abode of one or two pigs; and on another occasion I found it inhabited by a cow. In
consequence of the attention of the Earl of Moray (the proprietor of the island), and his active
factor, Mr. Philipps, having been directed to the subject, all such desecration has been put
an end to, and the whole building has been repaired in such a way as to retard its dilapidation.
The plans required for its proper repair were kindly drawn out by my friend Mr. Brash of Cork,
a most able architect and archæologist, who had performed on various occasions previously a
similar duty in reference to the restoration of old ecclesiastical buildings in the south and
west of Ireland. All these restorations preserve, as far as possible, in every respect the
original characteristics of the building. In making these restorations, several points mentioned
in the text as visible in the former dilapidated state of the building, are now of course covered
up, such as the section of the arch of the roof, represented in woodcut, Fig. 9, etc. Other
new points, not alluded to in the text, were cleared up and brought to light as the necessary
repairs were proceeded with. The opening in the western part of the south wall of the building
was found to be the undoubted original door of the cell; and when the earth accumulated up
against it externally was cleared away, there was discovered, leading from this door to the
south, and in the direction of the well of the island, a built way or passage,[52] gently sloping
upwards out of the cell, 4 feet in width, like the door itself, but becoming slightly wider
when it reached the limit to which it has been as yet traced--viz., about 13 or 14 feet from
the building. The built sides of this passage still stand about 3 or 4 feet in height; the
lime used, as cement in constructing these sides is apparently the same as that used in the
construction of the walls of the cell itself; and, further, the passage has been coated over
with the same dense plaster as that still seen adhering at different points to the interior
of the oratory. It is impossible to fix the original height of the walls of this passage, but
probably these walls were so high at one time, near the entrance at least into the oratory,
as to be there arched over; for, as stated in the text, the stones composing the outer or external
arch of the doorway offer that appearance of irregular fracturing which they would necessarily
show if the archway had been originally continued forward, and subsequently broken across parallel
with the line or face of the south side wall. It is perhaps not uninteresting here to add,
that in Icolmkill a similar walled walk or entrance led into the small house or building of
unknown antiquity, named the "Culdee's Cell." In the old Statistical Account (1795), this cell
is described as "the foundation of a small circular house, upon a reclining plain. From the
door of the house a walk ascends to a small hillock, with the remains of a wall upon each side
of the walk, which grows wider to the hillock."--(Statistical Account of Scotland, vol. xiv.
p. 200.) At the old heremetical establishment of St. Fechin, on High Island, Connemara, there
is "a covered passage, about 15 feet long and 3 wide," leading from the oratory to the supposed
nearly circular, dome-roofed cell of the Abbot.--(Dr. Petrie's Ecclesiastical Architecture,
p. 425.)]

[Footnote 51: This window seems very ancient, and no mistake! Compare it with the window of
the oratory near Kilmalkedar, in my Towers, p. 184. First edition.--P.]

[Footnote 52: This fact is, I think, very interesting and important as an evidence of the great
antiquity of the building. Such built-passages are often found in Ireland connected with small
churches and oratories of the sixth and seventh centuries, but never, to my knowledge, with
any of a later age. They may, in fact, be considered as characteristic appendages, or accompanying
features, to the ecclesiastical structures of those times. There is one at Rathmichael, near
Dublin, where there is the butt of a round tower. I have seen many of them in various states
of preservation, and I think all were about 4 feet both in breadth and height. They were, however,
never arched, but roofed with large flags, laid horizontally, and their upper surface level
with the surrounding ground.--P.]

[Footnote 53: After this sentence Dr. Petrie adds, "Good--very good."]

[Footnote 54: This is a strong evidence in favour of the antiquity of the structure.--P.]

[Footnote 55: See other similar notices of the visit of Alexander I. to Inchcolm in Buchanan's
Rerum Scoticarum Historia, lib. vii. cap. 27; Leslæus de Rebus Gestis Scotorum, lib. vi. p.
219, etc.]

[Footnote 56: Joannis de Fordun Scotichronicon, cum Supplementis et Continuatione Walteri Boweri
Insulæ St. Columbæ Abbatis; cura Walteri Goodall (1759), vol. i. p. 286.]

[Footnote 57: My friend Mr. David Laing, with his usual kindness, has examined, with a view
to this point, several manuscripts of the Scotichronicon, and has found that the account in
that work of King Alexander's visit to Inchcolm is from the pen of Bower, and, as Mr. Laing
adds in his note to me, "not the less curious and interesting on that account." In his original
portion of the History, Fordun himself merely refers to the foundation of the Monastery of
Inchcolm by Alexander.]

[Footnote 58: Extracta e Cronicis Scocie, p. 66.]

[Footnote 59: History of Scotland, vol. iii. p. 336.]

[Footnote 60: See Mr. Turnbull's Introductory Notice to the Abbotsford Club edition of the
Extracta, p. xiv.]

[Footnote 61: Extracta e Cronicis Scocie, p. 66.]

[Footnote 62: Boece's History and Chronicles of Scotland, translated by John Bellenden, book
xii. chap. 15, vol. ii. p. 294.]

[Footnote 63: Scotorum Historiæ, lib. v. fol. cclxxii. First Paris Edition of 1526.]

[Footnote 64: De Divinitate, cap. 46.]

[Footnote 65: Though Roman houses, temples, and other buildings of stone and lime abounded
in this country in the earlier centuries of the Christian era, yet the first Christian churches
erected at Glastonbury in England, and at St. David's in Wales, were--according to the authority,
at least, of William of Malmesbury and Giraldus Cambrensis--made of wattles. The first Christian
church which is recorded as having been erected in Scotland, namely, the Candida Casa, reared
at Whithern, towards the beginning of the fifth century, by St. Ninian, was constructed, as
mentioned in a well-known passage of Bede, of stone, forming "ecclesiam insignem ... de lapide
insolito Britonibus more."--(Historia Ecclesiast., lib. iii. cap. 4.) According to the Irish
Annals, the three churches first erected by Palladius, in Ireland, about the year 420, were
of wood, one of them being termed House of the Romans, "Teach-na-Romhan," but not apparently
from its Roman mode of building.--(See Dr. O'Donovan's Annals of the Four Masters, vol. i.
p. 129.) The church of Duleck, one of the earliest, if not the earliest, which St. Patrick
erected in Ireland, and the first bishop of which, St. Cianan, died in the year 490, was built
of stone, as its original name of Daimhllag (stone house) signifies; and the same word, damhliag
or stone house, came subsequently to be applied as a generic term to the larger Irish churches.--(See
Dr. Petrie's Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, p. 142, with a quotation from an old Irish
poem of the names of the three masons in the household of St. Patrick, who "made damhliags
first in Erin.") When, in the year 652, Finan succeeded to the Bishopric of Lindisfarne, he
built there a suitable Episcopal church, constructed of oak planks, and covered with reeds,
"more Scotorum non de lapide, sed de robore secto totam composuit, atque arundine texit."--(Bede's
Hist. Eccl., lib. iii. cap. 25.) When St. Cuthbert erected his anchorite retreat on the island
of Farne he made it of two chambers, one an oratory, and the other for domestic purposes; and
he finished the walls of these buildings by digging round and cutting away the natural soil
within and without, forming the roof out of rough wood and straw, "de lignis informibus et
foeno."--(Vita S. Cuthberti, cap. 17.) Planks or "tabulæ," also, were employed in building
or reconstructing the walls of this oratory on Farne Island, as St. Ethelwald, Cuthbert's successor,
finding hay and clay insufficient to fill up the openings that age made between its boards,
obtained a calf's skin, and nailed it as a protection against the storms in that corner of
the oratory, where, like his predecessor, he used to kneel or stand when praying.--(Ibid.,
cap. 46.) St. Godric's first rude hermitage at Finchale, on the Wear, was made of turf (vili
cespite), and afterwards of rough wood and twigs (de lignis informibus et virgulis).--(See
chaps 21 and 29 of his Life by Reginald.) On the construction, by wattles and wood, of some
early Irish and Scoto-Irish monastic and saints' houses and oratories, as those of St. Wolloc,
St. Columba, and St. Kevin, see Dr. Reeves' notes in his edition of the Life of St. Columba,
pp. 106, 114, and 177. In some districts where wood was scarce, and stone abundant and easily
worked, as in the west coast of Ireland, all ecclesiastical buildings were--like the far more
ancient duns and forts in these parts--made principally or entirely of stone. But even in parts
where wood was easily procured, oratories seem to have been sometimes, from an early period,
built of stone. Thus, in the Tripartite Life of St. Patrick, the devout virgin Crumtherim is
described as living in a stone-built oratory, "in cella sive lapideo inclusorio," in the vicinity
of Armagh, as early as the fifth century.--(Colgan's Trias Thaumaturga, p. 163.) And, at the
city of Armagh again, we have an incidental notice of a stone oratory in the eighth century;
for, in the Ulster Annals, under the year 788, there is reported "Contentio in Ardmacae in
qua jugulatur vir in hostio [ostio] Oratorii lapidei."--(Dr. O'Conor's Rerum Hibernicarum Scriptores,
tom. iv. p. 113.) Dr. Petrie believes that all the churches at Armagh erected by St. Patrick
and his immediate successors were built of stone, as well indeed as all the early abbey and
cathedral churches throughout Ireland.--(Ecclesiastical Architecture, p. 159.)]

[Footnote 66: The Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, anterior to the Anglo-Saxon Invasion,
comprising an Essay on the Round Towers of Ireland, pp. 437, 435 and 430.]

[Footnote 67: "That these buildings (St. Columb's House at Kells and St. Kevin's at Glendalough),
which are so similar in most respects to each other, are of a very early antiquity, can scarcely
admit of doubt; indeed, I see no reason to question their being of the times of the celebrated
ecclesiastics whose names they bear."--(Dr. Petrie's Ecclesiastical Architecture, p. 430.)
In his late edition of Adamnan's Life of St. Columba, Dr. Reeves, when describing the Columbite
monasteries and churches founded in Ireland, speaks (p. 278) of Kells as "having become the
chief seat of the Columbian monks" shortly after the commencement of the ninth century. Among
the indications of the ancient importance of the place which still remain, he enumerates the
fine old Round Tower of Kells, its three ancient large sculptured crosses, the "curious oratory
called St. Columbkille's House," and its great literary monument now preserved in Trinity College,
Dublin--namely, the Book of Kells. He quotes the old Irish Life of St. Columba, followed by
O'Donnell, to show that it is there stated that the saint himself "marked out the city of Kells
in extent as it now is, and blessed it;" but he doubts if any considerable church here was
founded by Columba himself, or indeed before 804. He grounds his doubts chiefly on the negative
circumstance that there is "no mention of the place in the Annals as a religious seat" till
the year 804. But the Annals of the Four Masters record two years previously, or in 802, that
"the church of Columcille at Céanannus (or Kells) was destroyed" (vol. i. p. 413), referring
of course to an old or former church of St. Columba's there; whilst the Annals of Clonmacnoise
mention that two years afterwards, or in 804, "there was a new church founded in Kells in honour
of St. Colume."--(See Ibid., footnote.)[68] The learned editor of the Annals of the Four Masters,
Professor O'Donovan, has translated and published, in the first volume of the Miscellany of
the Irish Archæological Society, an ancient poem attributed to St. Columba, and which, at all
events, was certainly composed at a period when some remains of Paganism existed in Ireland.
In this production the poet makes St. Columba say, "My order is at Cennanus (Kells)," etc.;
and in his note to this allusion Dr. O'Donovan states that at Kells "St. Columbkille erected
a monastery in the sixth century."--(Miscellany of Archæological Society, vol. i. p. 13.) Some
minds would trust such a question regarding the antiquity of a place more to the evidence of
parchment than to the evidence of stone and lime. The beautiful Evangeliarium, known as the
Book of Kells, is mentioned by the Four Masters under the year 1006 as being then the "principal
relic of the western world," on account of its golden case or cover, and as having been temporarily
stolen in that year from the erdomh or sacristy of the great church of Kells. In the same ancient
entry this book is spoken of as "the Great Gospel of Columcille," and whether originally belonging
to Kells or not, is certainly older than the ninth century, if not indeed as old as Columba.
The corresponding Evangeliarium of Durrow, placed now also in Trinity College, Dublin,--"a
manuscript" (says Dr. Reeves, p. 276) "approaching, if not reaching to the Columbian age,"--is
known from the inscription on the silver-mounted case which formerly belonged to it, to have
been "venerable in age, and a reliquary in 916" (p. 327). In the remarkable colophon which
closes this manuscript copy of the Evangelists, St. Columba himself is professed to be the
copyist or writer of it, the reader being adjured to cherish the memory "Columbæ scriptoris
qui hoc scripsi." In the Ulster Annals, under the year 904, there is the following entry regarding
Kells: "Violatio Ecclesiæ Kellensis per Flannum mac Maelsechnalli contra Donchad filium suum,
et alii decollati sunt circa Oratorium."--(Dr. O'Conor's Rerum Hibern. Scriptores, tom. iv.
p. 243.) Is the scene of slaughter thus specialised the Oratory or "House of St. Columb," which
is still standing at Kells?[69]]

[Footnote 68: I would say yes, beyond question! It was both oratory and house, like that of
St. Cuthbert on Farne island, described in the passage quoted ante, p. 101, note.--P.]

[Footnote 69: St. Colume, as translated by Mageochagan or Macgeoghegan. In the original this
would be Columbkille, as in all the other Annals.--P.]

[Footnote 70: In treating of the subsequent fate of the old Irish oratories, Dr. Petrie remarks,
"Such structures came in subsequent times to be used by devotees as penitentiaries, and to
be generally regarded as such exclusively. Nor is it easy to conceive localities as such better
fitted, in a religious age, to excite feelings of contrition for past sins, and of expectations
of forgiveness, than those which had been rendered sacred by the sanctity of those to whom
they had owed their origin. Most certain, at all events, it is, that they came to be regarded
as sanctuaries the most inviolable, to which, as our annals show, the people were accustomed
to fly in the hope of safety--a hope, however, which was not always realised."--(P. 358.)]

[Footnote 71: Scotichronicon, lib. v. cap. 36. Goodall's edition, vol. i. p. 286.]

[Footnote 72: Such cells or oratories, as relics of the holy men who had been their founders,
were always regarded by the Irish, like every other kind of relics, as their bells, croziers,
books, etc. etc., with the deepest sentiments of veneration, and their injury or violation--"dishonouring,"
as the annalists often term it--was regarded as a sacrilege of the most revolting and sinful
character. And to this pious feeling we may ascribe the singular preservation to our own times
of so many of such buildings--though, indeed, in many instances, they may only retain the general
form, or a portion of the walls, of the original structure--owing to the injuries inflicted
by time, or, as more frequently, by foreign violence. Thus, in the great Aran of the Tiglach
Enda, or "House of Enda," a portion only--the east end--is of the Saint's time, the rest is
some centuries later; and of St. Ciarn's oratory at Clonmacnoise--called in the Irish Annals
"Temple Ciaron," or "Eaglais-beag," and, sometimes, "Temple-beg," or "The Little Church," though
the original form was carefully preserved, there was, when I first examined it, more than forty
years ago, apparently no portion of its masonry that was not obviously of much later times--in
parts even as late as the seventeenth century. Our annalists record the names of Airchinneachs
of this oratory from 893 to 1097.--P.]

[Footnote 73: In reference to this observation, it is scarcely necessary to refer to the teachings
in Scotland of St. Kentigern of Strathclyde in the first half of the sixth century, of St.
Serf of Culross in the latter, and of St. Palladius and St. Ninian in the earlier parts of
the fifth century, with the more immediate converts and followers of these ancient missionaries.
In his Demonstratio quod Christus sit Deus contra Judæos atque Gentiles, written about the
year 387, St. Chrysostom avers that "the British Islands ([Greek: Bretanikai nêsoi]), situated
beyond the Mediterranean Sea, and in the very ocean itself, had felt the power of the Divine
Word, churches having been found there, and altars erected." (Opera omnia, vol. i. p. 575,
Paris edition of Montfaucon, 1718.) Perhaps St. Chrysostom founded his statement upon a notice
in reference to the alleged extension of Christianity to the northern parts of Britain, given
a hundred and fifty years previously by Tertullian, when discussing a similar argument. In
his dissertation Adversus Judæos, supposed to be written about 210, Tertullian, when treating
of the propagation of Christianity, states (chap. vii.), that at that time already places among
the Britons, inaccessible to the Romans, were yet subject to Christ--"Britannorum inaccessa
Romanis loca, Christo vero subdita." (Oehler's edition of Tertullian, vol. iii. p. 713.) Among
the numerous inscriptions and sculptures left here by the Romans while they held this country
during the first four centuries of the Christian era, not one has, I believe, been yet found
containing a single Christian notice or emblem, or affording by itself any direct evidence
of the existence of Christianity among the Roman colonists and soldiers in Britain. But there
is indirect lapidary or monumental evidence of its propagation in another manner. In England,
as in Germany, France, etc., there exist among the old Roman remains, altars and temples dedicated
to Mithras, originally the god of the Sun among the Persians, with sculptures and inscriptions
referring to Mithraic worship. They have been found in the cities along the Roman wall in Northumberland;
at York, etc. Various references among the old Fathers seem to show that when a knowledge of
the Christian religion began to spread to the Western Colonies of Rome, the worship of Mithras
was set up in opposition to Christianity, and Christian rites were imitated by the Mithraic
priests and followers. Thus, for example, the author whom I have just cited, Tertullian, tells
us, in his tract De Præscriptione Hæreticorem, chap. 40, that the worshippers of Mithras practised
the remission of sins by water (as in baptism), made a sign upon their foreheads (as if simulating
the sign of the cross), celebrated the offering of bread (as if in imitation of the sacrament
of the Lord's Supper), etc. (See his Works, vol. iii. p. 38, of Oehler's Leipsic edition of 1854.)]

[Footnote 74: See Dr. Reeves' admirable edition of Adamnan's Life of St. Columba, pp. lxxiv
and lxxv,--a book which is a perfect model of learned annotation and careful editing.]

[Footnote 75: I think it might be well to strengthen your statement by adducing a few examples--thus,
as for example, the remains of a monastery of Columba's time on an island--now drained--called
Lough Columbkill, in the island of Skye--the churches and clochans, or stone-houses of the
monks, on St. Kilda, and probably many similar remains on other islands of the Hebrides.--P.]

[Footnote 76: Of St. MacDara of Cruach MicDara, an island off the coast of Connamara, of St.
Brendan in Inis Gloria, an island off the coast of Errus, and very many more.--P.]

[Footnote 77: Colgan's Trias Thaumaturga, p. 129.]

[Footnote 78: Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, p. 195.]

[Footnote 79: Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, p. 194.]

[Footnote 80: And which, moreover, had often chancels attached to them.--P.]

[Footnote 81: Ibid., pp. 365, 351.]

[Footnote 82: Ibid., p. 351.]

[Footnote 83: I should, perhaps, have written almost always. The very few exceptions did not
at the moment occur to me. Perhaps, indeed, there is but one exception, that most important
one, on Bishop's Island, the others belonging rather to churches.--P.]

[Footnote 84: Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, p. 352.]

[Footnote 85: South doorways are certainly very rarely to be met with in the very ancient churches
or oratories in Ireland. In addition to this important one on Bishop's Island, I can only call
to mind three others, namely, in Kilbaspugbrone, near Sligo; the Templemor, or great church
of St. Mochonna, in Inismacnerin, or, as now called, Church Island, in Lough Key, county of
Roscommon; and Killcrony, near Bray, in the county of Wicklow. The two last named are fine
specimens of doorways of Cyclopean style and masonry.--P.]

[Footnote 86: Wakeman's Archæologia Hibernica, pp. 59, 60.]

[Footnote 87: My pupil is in error in this supposition. He should have remembered--for he drew
it on the block for me--that the window in the oratory near the church of Kilmalkedar, county
of Kerry, which is built without cement, splays both externally and internally.--See my work,
p. 184.

I should also observe another feature common to both these windows, namely, that it is only
the jambs that are splayed.--P.]

[Footnote 88: Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland, p. 186.]

[Footnote 89: Ibid. p. 437.]

[Footnote 90: Was.--P.]

[Footnote 91: But now considers as of the tenth or perhaps eleventh.--P.]

[Footnote 92: See his Illustrated Handbook of Architecture, vol. ii. p. 918.]

[Footnote 93: I confess that I should not like to adduce this stone-roofed church of Killaghy
in support of the antiquity of the oratory; for I could never bring myself to believe that
it was of an age anterior to the thirteenth century.--P.]

[Footnote 94: See Dr. Petrie's work (p. 291) for full quotations in confirmation of this date,
from the Annals of Clonmacnoise and Kilronan, the Annals of Munster, the Annals of the Four
Masters, the Chronicon Scotorum, etc.]

[Footnote 95: When discussing the history of the pointed arch, Mr. Parker observes: "The choir
of Canterbury Cathedral, commenced in 1175, is usually referred to as the earliest example
in England, and none of earlier date has been authenticated."--Glossary of Terms in Architecture
(1845), p. 28.]

[Footnote 96: Dr. Petrie's Ecclesiastical Architecture, p. 133.]

[Footnote 97: Pointed arches, constructed both on the radiating and horizontal principles,
are found still standing in the antiquated mason-work of Assyria, Nubia, Greece, and Etruria.
(See drawings and descriptions of different specimens from these countries in Mr. Fergusson's
Handbook of Architecture, vol. i. pp. 253, 254, 257, 259, 294, 381, etc.) The pointed arch
was used in the East in sacred architecture as early as the time of Constantine, as is still
witnessed in the oldest existing Christian church, namely, the church built by that emperor,
in the earlier part of the fourth century, over the alleged tomb of our Saviour at Jerusalem.[99]
For notices of the prevalence of the pointed arch in early Eastern and in Saracenic architecture,
see Fergusson's Handbook, p. 380, 598, etc.]

[Footnote 98: In this opinion of Mr. Brash's I fully concur.--P.]

[Footnote 99: I must confess that I am very sceptical as to any portion now existing of the
church of the Holy Sepulchre being of the time of Constantine, and also as to the early age
of any portion of it in which a pointed arch is found. More walls of the original edifice may
possibly exist; but it is certain that the church was more than once modified, and the ornamental
work is assuredly of a much later age.--P.]

[Footnote 100: "Alanus de Mortuo Mari, Miles, Dominus de Abirdaur, dedit omnes et totas dimidietates
terrarum Villæ suæ de Abirdaur, Deo et Monachis de Insula Sancti Columbi, pro sepultura sibi
et posteris suis in Ecclesia dicti Monasterii." (Quoted from the MS. Register or Chartulary
of the Abbey by Sir Robert Sibbald in his History of Fife, p. 41.) The same author adds, that,
in consequence of this grant to the Monastery of Inchcolm for leave of sepulture, the Earl
of Murray (who represents "Stewart Abbott of Inchcolm," that sat as a lay Commendator in the
Parliament of 1560, when the Confession of Faith was approved of) now possesses "the wester
half of Aberdour." Sir Robert Sibbald further mentions the story that "Alain, the founder,
being dead, the Monks, carrying his corpse in a coffin of lead, by barge, in the night-time,
to be interred within their church, some wicked Monks did throw the samen in a great deep betwixt
the land and the Monastery, which to this day, by the neighbouring fishermen and salters, is
called Mortimer's deep." He does not give the year of the preceding grant by Alain de Mortimer,
but states that "the Mortimers had this Lordship by the marriage of Anicea, only daughter and
sole heiress of Dominus Joannes de Vetere Ponte or Vypont, in anno 1126." It appears to have
been her husband who made the above grant. (See Nisbet's Heraldry, vol. i. p. 294.)]

[Footnote 101: Thus, in 1272, Richard of Inverkeithing, Chamberlain of Scotland, died, and
his body was buried at Dunkeld, but his heart was deposited in the choir of the Abbey of Inchcolm.
(Scotichronicon, lib. x. c. 30.) In Hay's Scotia Sacra is a description of the sepultures on
this monument in Inchcolm Church, p. 471. In 1173, Richard, chaplain to King William, died
at Cramond, and was buried in Inchcolm. (Mylne's Vitæ, p. 6.) In 1210, Richard, Bishop of Dunkeld,
died at Cramond, and was buried in Inchcolm. (Scotichronicon, lib. viii. c. 27); and four years
afterwards, Bishop Leycester died also at Cramond, and was buried at Inchcolm (Ibid. lib. ix.
c. 27). In 1265, Richard, Bishop of Dunkeld, built a new choir in the church of St. Columba
on Inchcolm; and in the following year the bones of three former bishops of Dunkeld were transferred
and buried, two on the north, and the third on the south side of the altar in this new choir.
(Scotichronicon, lib. x. c. 20, 21.) See also the Extracta e Cronicis Scocie for other similar
notices, pp. 90, 95, etc.; and Mylne's Vitæ Dunkeldensis Ecclesiæ Episcoporum, pp. 6, 9, 11, etc.]

[Footnote 102: Many, if not all of.--P.]

[Footnote 103: "There are" (observes Father Innes) "still remaining many copies of Fordun,
with continuations of his history done by different hands. The chief authors were Walter Bower
or Bowmaker, Abbot of Inchcolm, Patrick Russell, a Carthusian monk of Perth, the Chronicle
of Cupar, the Continuation of Fordun, attributed to Bishop Elphinstone, in the Bodleian Library,
and many others. All these were written in the fifteenth age, or in the time betwixt Fordun
and Boece, by the best historians that Scotland then afforded, and unquestionably well qualified
for searching into, and finding out, what remained of ancient MSS. histories anywhere hidden
within the kingdom, and especially in abbeys and monasteries, they being all either abbots
or the most learned churchmen or monks in their respective churches or monasteries." (Innes'
Critical Inquiry, vol. i. p. 228.)]

[Footnote 104: I confess I have still some doubt as to this island having received its name
from a church founded by S. Columba-cill, or that he ever resided in it, and I should like
to have your present opinion upon the matter. Fordun alone seems to me a very insufficient
authority for a fact which is very improbable; and the legend of the seal, which I published,
appears to me to be a better authority for the ancient name of the island--"Colmanus nomine,
qui ab alijs Mocholmocus. Quia Colmôe & Colmân sunt diminutiva, a Colum. 1. Columba, et affectus
vel venerationis causa additur mo; et hinc Mocholmocus," Colgan, vol. i. p. 155. Colgan's authority
is of no value, as his statement is wholly founded on Fordun. This is proved by his notice
of the monastery in his catalogue of the churches founded by Columba. "Colmis-inse Monasterium
canonicorum Regularium in Æmonia insula inter Edinburgum et InverKithin. Fordonus, ibid." As
the cautious Dr. Lanigan observes--"Colgan was, to use a vulgar phrase, bewitched as to the
mania of ascribing foundations of monasteries to our eminent saints." Further, it should not
be forgotten that Fordun tells us that in his time the island was called "Saint Colmy's Inche."
See the passage quoted by Ussher, De Brit. Ec., p. 704. Now, I know of no instance of the corruption
of Columb, or Columba, into Colmy, which appears rather a corruption of Colmoc or Colman.

If this be not the Insula Colmoci of the regal seal--"round seals have something royal"--where
are we to find it? Not in Ireland, certainly, though our calendars record the names of two
islands called Inch Mocholmoc, from saints of that name. One of these was in Leinster; the
locality of the other is unknown. They also record the patron day of a St. Mocholmoc, na hainse,
"of the island," at the 30th October. Could we find what was the patron day of the saint of
Inche Colm it might help to settle the matter. One of the above saints is called Colman Ailither,
or the pilgrim. Chattering in my discursive way, let me add that a Saint Mocholmoc appears
to have been a favourite with the Danes of Dublin in the twelfth century, for we find in the
lists of the Danish Kings of Dublin that of Donald MacGilloholmoch as reigning from 1125 to
1134; and another of the name is noticed by Regan as an Irish king, who lived not far from
Dublin, and who offered his services to the English against the Irish and Danes in 1171. There
was a Gillmeholmoc's Lane in Dublin, near Christ's Church, where, as Harris conjectures, he,
or some of his family, inhabited. Did this royal Danish family adopt its surname in honour
of St. Colman of Lindisfarne, of whom it must have heard a great deal during the Danish occupation
of Northumbria, the kings of which were for a long time also kings of Dublin? Or may it have
been from a remembrance of the shelter and honourable interment to their dead, given to their
predecessors in the little island of St. Colme (or Colmoch!) something more than a century
before--said island having derived its name from the Lindisfarne Saint, who may have occasionally
occupied it as his desert or hermitage? I do not expect that you will not laugh at all this!
but a hearty laugh is not a bad thing in this gloomy weather.--P.]

[Footnote 105: See extract in Goodall's edition of the Scotichronicon, vol. i. p. 6. (footnote),
and in Colgan's Trias Thaumaturga, vol. ii. p. 466.]

[Footnote 106: Dr. O'Donovan's Annals of the Kingdom of Ireland, vol. i. p. 557.]

[Footnote 107: In Scotland we have various alleged instances of caves being thus employed as
anchorite or devotional cells, and some of them still show rudely cut altars, crosses, etc.--as
the so-called cave of St. Columba on the shores of Loch Killesport in North Knapdale, with
an altar, a font or piscina, and a cross cut in the rock (Origines Parochiales, vol. ii. p.
40); the cave of St. Kieran on Loch Kilkerran in Cantyre (Ibid. vol. ii. p. 12); the cave of
St. Ninian on the coast of Wigtonshire (Old Statistical Account of Scotland, vol. xvii. p.
594); the cave of St. Molio or Molaise, in Holy Island, in the Clyde, with Runic inscriptions
on its walls (see an account of them in Dr. Daniel Wilson's admirable Prehistoric Annals of
Scotland, pp. 531 to 533, etc). The island of Inchcolm pertains to Fifeshire, and in this single
county there are at least four caves that are averred to have been the retreats which early
Christian devotees and ascetics occupied as temporary abodes and oratories, or in which they
occasionally kept their holy vigils; namely, the cave at Dunfermline, which bears the name
of Malcolm Canmore's devout Saxon queen St. Margaret, and which is said to have contained formerly
a stone table or altar, with "something like a crucifix" upon it (Dr. Chalmers' Historical
Account of Dunfermline, vol. i. pp. 88, 89); the cave of St. Serf at Dysart (the name itself--Dysart--an
instance, in all probability, of the "desertum" of the text, p. 124), in which that saint contested
successfully in debate, according to the Aberdeen Breviary, with the devil, and expelled him
from the spot (see Breviarium Aberdonense, Mens. Julii, fol. xv, and Mr. Muir's Notices of
Dysart printed for the Maitland Club, p. 3); the caves of Caplawchy, on the east Fifeshire
coast, marked interiorly with rude crosses, etc., and which, according to Wynton, were inhabited
for a time by "St. Adrian wyth hys cumpany" of disciples (Orygynale Chronykel of Scotland,
book iii. c. viii.); and the cave of St. Rule at St. Andrews, containing a stone table or altar
on its east side, and on its west side the supposed sleeping cell of the hermit excavated out
of the rock (Old Statistical Account, vol. xiii. p. 202). In Marmion(Canto i. 29) Sir Walter
Scott describes the "Palmer" as, with solemn vows to pay,

     "To fair St. Andrews bound,
   Within the ocean-cave to pray,
   Where good St. Rule his holy lay,
   From midnight to the dawn of day,
   Sung to the billows' sound."]

[Footnote 108: Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Anglorum, lib. v. cap. 12.]

[Footnote 109: Ibid. lib. v. c. 9. Bede further states that this anchoret subsequently went
to Frisland to preach as a missionary there, but he reaped no fruit from his labours among
his barbarous auditors. "Returning then (adds Bede) to the beloved place of his peregrination,
he gave himself up to our Lord in his wonted repose; for since he could not be profitable to
strangers by teaching them the faith, he took care to be the more useful to his own people
by the example of his virtue."]

[Footnote 110: Published in 1845 by the Surtees Society, Libellus de Vita, etc., S. Godrici,
p. 65, etc.]

[Footnote 111: Ibid. pp. 45 and 192.]

[Footnote 112: See Wordsworth's beautiful inscription--"For the spot where the hermitage stood
on St. Herbert's island, Derwentwater."--Ed. of 1858, p. 258.--P.]

[Footnote 113: Ibid. footnote, p. 46.]

[Footnote 114: Bede's Vita Sancti Cuthberti, cap. 16, 28, 46, etc.]

[Footnote 115: De Beati Cuthberti Virtutibus, pp. 63 and 66.]

[Footnote 116: See, The Flowers of the Lives of the most renowned Saincts of the Three Kingdoms,
by Hierome Porter, p. 321.]

[Footnote 117: Boece's History and Chronicles of Scotland, book ix. c. 17, or vol. ii. p. 98;
Leslie's De Rebus Gestis Scotorum, lib. iv. p. 152; Dempster's Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis
Scotorum, lib. ii. p. 122, or vol. i. p. 66.]

[Footnote 118: The poem alluded to is designated "De Pontificibus et Sanctis Ecclesiæ Eboracencis."
A copy of it is printed in Gale's Historiæ Britannicæ, etc. Scriptores, vol. iii. p. 703, seq.
The famous author of this poem, Alcuin, who was brought up at York, and probably born there
about the year 735, became afterwards, as is well known, the councillor and confidant of Charlemagne.
The application to the Bass of the lines in which he describes the anchoret residence of St.
Balther is evident:

   Est locus undoso circumdatus undique ponto,
   Rupibus horrendis prærupto et margine septus,
   In quo belli potens terreno in corpore miles
   Sæpius aërias vincebat Balthere turmas; etc.

The Bass was not the only hermit's island on our eastern coasts which was imagined, in these
credulous times, to be the occasional abode of evil spirits. According to Bede no one had dared
to dwell alone on the island of Farne before St. Cuthbert selected it as his anchoret habitation,
because demons resided there (propter demorantium ibi phantasias demonum). Vita Cuthberti,
cap. 16. See also the undevilling of the cave of Dysart by St. Serf in the footnote of page
125, supra; and some alleged feats of St. Patrick and St. Columba in this direction in Dr.
O'Donovan's Annals of the Four Masters, vol. i. p. 156. Two other islands in the Firth of Forth
are noted in ancient ecclesiastical history--viz., Inch May and Inch Keith. "The ile of May,
decorit (to use the words of Bellenden) with the blude and martirdome of Sanct Adriane and
his fallowis," was the residence of that Hungarian missionary and his disciples when they were
attacked and murdered about the year 874 by the Danes (Bellenden's Translation of Boece's History,
vol. i. p. 37); see also vol. ii. p. 206; Dempster's Historia Eccl. Gentis Scotorum, lib. i.
17, and vol. i. p. 20; and Fordun, in the Scotichronicon, lib. i. c. vi., where he describes
"Maya, prioratus cujus est cella canonicorum Sancti Andreæ de Raymonth; ubi requiescit Sanctus
Adrianus, cum centum sociis suis sanctis martyribus." Inch Keith is enumerated by Dr. Reeves
(Preface to Life of Columba, p. 66) as one of the Scotch churches of St. Adamnan, Abbot of
Iona from A.D. 679 to 704, and the biographer of St. Columba[119]--Fordun having long ago described
it as a place "in qua præfuit Sanctus Adamnanus abbas, qui honorifice suscepit Sanctum Servanum,
cum sociis suis, in ipsa insula, ad primum suum adventum in Scotiam." Andrew Wynton, himself
the Prior of St. Serf's Isle in Lochlevin, describes also, in his old metrical Orygynale Chronykil
of Scotland, vol. i. p. 128, this apocryphal meeting of the two saints

                   "at Inchkeith,
   The ile betweene Kingorne and Leth."

The Breviary of Aberdeen, in alluding to this meeting, points out that the St. Serf received
by Adamnan was not the St. Serf of the Dysart Cave, and hence also not the baptiser of St.
Kentigern at Culross, as told in the legend of his mother, St. Thenew, or St. Thenuh--a female
saint whose very existence the good Presbyterians of Glasgow had so entirely lost sight of,
that centuries ago they unsexed the very name of the church dedicated to her in that city,
and came to speak of it under the uncanonical appellation of St. Enoch's. This first St. Serf
and Adamnan lived two centuries, at least, apart. In these early days Inch Keith was a place
of no small importance, if it be--as some (see Macpherson's Geographical Illustrations of Scottish
History) have supposed--the "urbs Giudi" of Bede, which he speaks of as standing in the midst
of the eastern firth, and contrasts with Alcluith or Dumbarton, standing on the side of the
western firth. The Scots and Picts were, he says, divided from the Britons "by two inlets of
the sea (duobus sinibus maris) lying betwixt them, both of which run far and broad into the
land of Britain, one from the Eastern, and the other from the Western Ocean, though they do
not reach so as to touch one another. The eastern has in the midst of it the city of Giudi
(Orientalis habit in medio sui urbem Giudi). The western has on it, that is, on the right hand
thereof (ad dextram sui), the city of Alchuith, which in their language means the 'Rock of
Cluith,' for it is close by the river of that name (Clyde)." (Bede's Hist. Ecclesiast., book
i. c. xii.) In reference to the supposed identification of Inch Keith and this "urbs Giudi,"
let me add (1.) that Bede's description (in medio sui) as strongly applies to the Island of
Garvie, or Inch Garvie, lying midway between the two Queensferries: (2.) it is perhaps worthy
of note that the term "Giudi" is in all probability a Pictish proper name, one of the kings
of the Picts being surnamed "Guidi," or rather "Guidid" (see Pinkerton's Inquiry into the History
of Scotland, vol. i. p. 287, and an extract from the Book of Ballymote, p. 504); and (3.) that
the word "urbs," in the language of Bede, signifies a place important, not so much for its
size as from its military or ecclesiastic rank, for thus he describes the rock (petra) of Dumbarton
as the "urbs Alcluith," and Coldingham as the "urbs Coludi" (Hist. Eccl., lib. iv. c. 19. etc.),--the
Saxon noun "ham" house or village, having, in this last instance, been in former times considered
a sufficient appellative for a place to which Bede applies the Latin designation of "urbs."]

[Footnote 119: As I have not the Life of Columba at hand to refer to, I must assume that so
able an archæologist as my friend Dr. Reeves had sufficient authority for this statement. If
it rested only on Fordun or Wynton, I should deem their authority insufficient to establish
as a fact what seems to me so improbable. Assuming the story to have had a foundation, might
not the real Adamnan have been the priest and monk of the monastery of Coludi or Coldingham,
of whom Bede has written? Coldingham, in his time, belonged to the Northumbrian kingdom.--P.]

[Footnote 120: See his edition of Adamnan's Life of Saint Columba, p. 366.]

[Footnote 121: Colgan refers to the Life of S. Fintani Eremita ad 15 Novemb., Tr. T., p. 606:--"Tir
mille anachoritas in Momonia est. S. Hibaro Episcopo cujusdam quæstionis decidendæ causâ simul
collect [illegible] & Angelus Dei ad convivium à S. Brigida Christo paratum invitativies had
so in auxilium per Jesum Christum." Quoted from the Book of Litanies of S. Ængus, on the same page.

See also the Summary of the Saints in that Litany in Ward's Vita S. Rumoldi, pp. 204, 205.

In short, the notices of deserts, hermits, and anchorites to be found, lives of saints, etc.
etc., are innumerable.--P.]

[Footnote 122: I think it very improbable, if the monastery founded by Alexander be meant.--P.]

[Footnote 123: This is no fit place to discuss the ages of the two Round Towers of Brechin
and Abernethy. But it may perhaps prove interesting to some future antiquary if it is here
mentioned, that when Dr. Petrie, in his Ecclesiastical Architecture of Ireland (p. 410), gives
"about the year 1020"[124] as the probable date of the erection of the Bound Tower of Brechin,
he chiefly relied--as he has mentioned to me, when conversing upon the subject,--for this approach
to the era of its building, upon that entry in the ancient Chronicon de Regibus Scotorum, etc.,
published by Innes, in which it is stated that King Kenneth MacMalcolm, who reigned from A.D.
971 to A.D. 994, "tribuit magnam civitatem Brechne domino." (See the Chronicon in Innes' Critical
Inquiry, vol. ii. p. 788.) The peculiarities of architecture in the Round Tower of Brechin
assimilate it much with the Irish Bound Towers of Donoughmore and Monasterboice, both of which
Dr. Petrie believes to have been built in or about the tenth century. If we could, in such
a question, rely upon the authority of Hector Boece, the Round Tower of Brechin is at least
a few years older than the probable date assigned to it by Dr. Petrie. For, in describing the
inroads of the Danes into Forfarshire about A.D. 1012, he tells us that these invaders destroyed
and burned down the town of Brechin, and all its great church, except "turrim quandam rotundam
mira arte constructam." (Scotorum Historiæ, lib. xi. 251, of Paris Edit, of 1526.)[125] This
reference to the Round Tower of Brechin has escaped detection, perhaps because it has been
omitted by Bellenden and Holinshed in their translations. No historical notices, I believe,
exist, tending to fix in any probable way the exact age of the Round Tower of Abernethy; but
one or two circumstances bearing upon the inquiry are worthy of note. We are informed, both
by the Chronicon Pictorum and by Bede, that in the eighth or ninth year of his reign, or about
A.D. 563, Brude, King of the Picts, embraced Christianity under the personal teaching of St.
Columba. At Brude's death, in 586, Garnard succeeded, and reigned till 597; and he was followed
by Nectan II., who reigned till 617. Fordun (Scotichronicon, lib. iv. cap. 12) and Wynton (book
v. ch. 12), both state that King Garnard founded the collegiate Church of Abernethy; and Fordun
further adds that he had found this information in a chronicle of the Church of Abernethy itself,
which, is now lost; "in quadam Chronica ecclesiæ de Abirnethy reperimus." But the register
of the Priory of St. Andrews mentions Garnard's successor on the Pictish throne, Nectan II.,
as the builder of Abernethy, "hic ædificavit Abernethyn" (Innes' Critical Inquiry, p. 800).
The probability is, that Garnard, towards the end of his reign, founded and commenced the building
of the church establishment of Abernethy, and that it was concluded and consecrated in the
early part of the reign of Nectan. The church was dedicated to St. Brigid; and the Chronicon
Pictorum (Innes' Inquiry, p. 778), in ascribing its foundation to Nectan I. (about A.D. 455)
instead of Nectan II., commits a palpable anachronism, and very evident error, as St. Brigid
did not die till a quarter of the next century had elapsed. (Annals of the Four Masters under
the year 525; Colgan's Trias Thaumaturga, p. 619.) Again, according to the more certain evidence
of Bede, another Pictish king, still of the name of Nectan (Naitanus Rex Pictorum), despatched
messengers, about the year 710, to Ceolfrid, Abbot of Bede's own Northumbrian monastery of
Jarrow, requesting, among other matters, that architects should be sent to him to build in
his country a church of stone, according to the manner of the Romans et architectos sibi mitti
petiit, qui juxta morem Romanorum ecclesiam in lapide in gente ipsius facerent. (Hist. Eccles.,
lib. v. c. xxi.) Forty years previously, St. Benedict or Biscop, the first Abbot of Jarrow,
had brought there from Gaul, masons (cæmentarios) to build for him "ecclesiam lapideam juxta
Romanorum morem." (See Bede's Vita Beatorum Abbatum.) Now it is probable that the Round Tower
of Abernethy was not built in connection with the church established there by the Pictish kings
at the beginning of the seventh century, for no such structures seem to have been erected in
connection with Pictish churches in any other part of the Pictish kingdom; and if at Abernethy,
the capital of the Picts, a Round Tower had been built in the seventh century of stone and
lime, the Abbot of Jarrow would scarcely have been asked in the eighth century, by a subsequent
Pictish king, to send architects to show the mode of erecting a church of stone in his kingdom.
Nor is it in the least degree more likely that these ecclesiastic builders, invited by King
Nectan in the early years of the eighth century, erected themselves the Round Tower of Abernethy;
for the building of such towers was, if not totally unknown, at least totally unpractised by
the ecclesiastic architects of England and France within their own countries.[126] The Scotic
or Scoto-Irish race became united with the Picts into one kingdom in the year 843, under King
Kenneth MacAlpine, a lineal descendant and representative of the royal chiefs who led the Dalriadic
colony from Antrim to Argyleshire, about A.D. 506. (See the elaborate genealogical table of
the Scottish Dalriadic kings in Dr. Reeves' edition of Adamnan's Life of Columba, p. 438.)
The purely "Scotic period" of our history, as it has been termed, dates from this union of
the Picts and Scots under Kenneth MacAlpine in 843, till Malcolm Canmore ascended the throne
in 1057; and there is every probability that the Round Towers of Abernethy and Brechin were
built during the period between these two dates, or during the regime of the intervening Scotic
or Scoto-Irish kings,--in imitation of the numerous similar structures belonging to their original
mother-church in Ireland. We may feel very certain, also, that they were not erected later
than the commencement of the twelfth century, for by that date the Norman or Romanesque style,--which
presents no such structures as the Irish Round Towers, was apparently in general use in ecclesiastic
architecture in Scotland, under the pious patronage of Queen Margaret Atheling and her three
crowned sons. Abernethy--now a small village--was for centuries a royal and pontifical city,
and the capital of a kingdom, "fuit locus ille sedes principalis, regalis, et pontificalis,
totius regni Pictorum" (Goodall's Scotichronicon, vol. i. p. 189); but all its old regal and
ecclesiastical buildings have utterly vanished, with the exception only of its solitary and
venerable Round Tower. Surely Boece could have had no object to serve by forging such a statement,
nor had he such antiquarian knowledge as would have enabled him to forge a statement so consistent
with the conclusion fairly to be drawn from the entry in the chronicle, and the characteristics
of the architecture of the tower itself. It appears to me that no rational scepticism can in
future be indulged as to the conclusion that the erection of this beautiful tower must be referred
to the last quarter of the tenth century.--P.]

[Footnote 126: The determining the age of the Brechin tower--a question which I consider as
now settled--must go far towards enabling us to come to a right conclusion as to the age of
the tower of Abernethy; for I think that no one possessed of ordinary powers of observation
and comparison, who has examined both, can for a moment doubt that the age of the Abernethy
tower is much greater than that of the tower of Brechin. This is the opinion which I formed
many years ago, after a very careful examination of the architectural peculiarities of each;
and I came to the conclusion that the safest opinion which could be indulged as to the age
of the Abernethy tower was, that it had been erected during the reign of the third Nectan,
i.e. between 712 and 727, and by those Northumbrian architects of the monastery of Jarrow,
for whose assistance that king, according to the high authority of Bede, had applied to build
for him in his capital a stone church in the Roman style. In the features of that style, during
the eighth century, as exhibited in its doorway, and, still more, its upper apertures, this
tower appeared to stand alone--there is nothing similar to it to be seen either in Scotland
or Ireland. The tower of Brechin has indeed a Romanesque doorway, but it is plainly of a later
age, and its other features are quite Irish. The circumstance of the Abernethy doorway being
placed on a level with the ground, and not, as almost universally, at a considerable height
from it, seemed also to support this opinion, as it indicated that the erection of the tower
was of a period anterior to the irruption of the Northmen, which rendered such a defensive
feature an imperative necessity. I cannot agree with you in opinion as to the cause assigned
for the preservation of the towers; for, in the first place, it is not true that their materials
were stronger or better, or their construction in any way different from that of the churches
with which they were connected, as proved by numerous examples in Ireland. Their walls are
rarely found of greater thickness than those of their contemporaneous churches, where such
have remained; and in all such cases the character of the masonry is identical. The cause which
I should rather assign for this greater longevity would be their rotundity, and still more,
their superior altitude. A church of moderate size, and humble height, might be easily injured,
or even destroyed, by neighbouring or foreign assailants, but the destruction of a tower, or
even its injury, beyond the burning of its wooden floors and doorway, would be a tedious and
difficult labour, requiring ladders, with which we are not to suppose the incendiaries came
provided; and hence their worst antagonist was found to be the flame from heaven.--P.]

[Footnote 127: Might not oratory be a safer term than habitation? Surely the clochans or monks'
houses, called stone pyramids by Martin, in St. Kilda, and of which many are still perfect,
are as old as Christianity in the north of Scotland, or as any similar buildings to be found
in Ireland.--P.]

ON THE CAT-STANE, KIRKLISTON.

The Mediæval Archæology of Scotland is confessedly sadly deficient in written documents. From
the decline of Roman records and rule, onward through the next six or eight centuries, we have
very few, or almost no written data to guide us in Scottish historical or antiquarian inquiries.
Nor have we any numismatic evidence whatever to appeal to. In consequence of this literary
dearth, the roughest lapidary inscriptions, belonging to these dark periods of our history,
come to be invested with an interest much beyond their mere intrinsic value. The very want
of other contemporaneous lettered documents and data imparts importance to the rudest legends
cut on our ancient lettered stones. For even brief and meagre tombstone inscriptions rise into
matters of historical significance, when all the other literary chronicles and annals of the
men and of the times to which these inscriptions belong have, in the lapse of ages, been destroyed
and lost.

It is needless to dwell here on the well-known fact, that in England and Scotland there have
been left by the Roman soldiers and colonists who occupied our island during the first four
centuries of the Christian era, great numbers of inscribed stones. British antiquarian and
topographical works abound with descriptions and drawings of these Roman lapidary writings.
But of late years another class or series of lapidary records has been particularly attracting
the attention of British antiquaries,--viz., inscribed stones of a late Roman or post-Roman
period. The inscriptions on this latter class of stones are almost always, if not always, sepulchral.
The characteristically rude letters in which they are written consist--in the earliest stones--of
debased Roman capitals; and--in the latest--of the uncial or minuscule forms of letters which
are used in the oldest English and Irish manuscripts. Some stones show an intermixture of both
alphabetical characters. These "Romano-British" inscribed stones, as they have been usually
termed, have hitherto been found principally in Wales, in Cornwall, and in West Devon. In the
different parts of the Welsh Principality, nearly one hundred, I believe, have already been
discovered. In Scotland, which is so extremely rich in ancient sculptured stones, very few
inscribed stones are as yet known; but if a due and diligent search be instituted, others,
no doubt, will betimes be brought to light.

An inscribed Scottish stone of the class I allude to is situated in the county of Edinburgh,
and has been long known under the name of the Cat-stane or Battle-stone. Of its analogy with
the earliest class of Romano-British inscribed stones found in Wales, I was not fully aware
till I had an opportunity of examining last year, at the meeting of the Cambrian Archæological
Society, a valuable collection of rubbings and drawings of these Welsh stones, brought forward
by that excellent antiquary, Mr. Longueville Jones; and afterwards, in situ, one or two of
the stones themselves. I venture, in the following remarks, to direct the attention of the
Society to the Cat-stane, partly in consequence of this belief in its analogy with the earliest
Welsh inscribed stones; partly, also, in order to adduce an old and almost unknown description
of the Cat-stane, made in the last years of the seventeenth century, by a gentleman who was
perhaps the greatest antiquary of his day; and partly because I have a new conjecture to offer
as to the historical personage commemorated in the inscription, and, consequently, as to the
probable age of the inscription itself.

Site and Description of the Stone.

The Cat-stane stands in the parish of Kirkliston, on the farm of Briggs,[128] in a field on
the north side of the road to Linlithgow, and between the sixth and seventh milestone from
Edinburgh. It is placed within a hundred yards of the south bank of the Almond; nearly half-a-mile
below the Boathouse Bridge; and about three miles above the entrance of the stream into the
Firth of Forth, at the old Roman station of Cramond, or Caer Amond. The monument is located
in nearly the middle of the base of a triangular fork of ground formed by the meeting of the
Gogar Water with the river Almond. The Gogar flows into the Almond about six or seven hundred
yards below the site of the Cat-stane.[129] The ground on which the Cat-stane stands is the
beginning of a ridge slightly elevated above the general level of the neighbouring fields.
The stone itself consists of a massive unhewn block of the secondary greenstone-trap of the
district, many large boulders of which lie in the bed of the neighbouring river. In form it
is somewhat prismatic, or irregularly triangular, with its angles very rounded. This large
monolith is nearly twelve feet in circumference, about four feet five inches in width, and
three feet three inches in thickness. Its height above ground is about four feet and a half.
The Honourable Mrs. Ramsay of Barnton, upon whose son's property the monument stands, very
kindly granted liberty, last year, for an examination by digging beneath and around the stone.
The accompanying woodcut is a copy of a sketch, made at the time, by my friend Mr. Drummond,
of the stone as exposed when pursuing this search around its exposed basis. We found the stone
to be a block seven feet three inches in total length, and nearly three feet buried in the
soil. It was placed upon a basis of stones, forming apparently the remains of a built stone
grave, which contained no bones[130] or other relics, and that had very evidently been already
searched and harried. I shall indeed have immediately occasion to cite a passage proving that
a century and a half ago the present pillarstone was surrounded, like some other ancient graves,
by a circular range of large flat-laid stones; and when this outer circle was removed,--if
not before,--the vicinity and base of the central pillar were very probably dug into and disturbed.

Different Readings of the Inscription.

The inscription upon the stone is cut on the upper half of the eastern and narrowest face of
the triangular monolith. Various descriptions of the legend have been given by different authors.
The latest published account of it is that given by Professor Daniel Wilson in his work on
Scottish Archæology. He disposes of the stone and its inscription in the two following short
sentences:--"A few miles to the westward of this is the oft-noted Catt Stane in Kirkliston
parish, on which the painful antiquary may yet decipher the imperfect and rudely-lettered inscription--the
work, most probably, of much younger hands than those that reared the mass of dark whinstone
on which it is cut--IN [H]OC TVMVLO IACET VETTA.. VICTR.. About sixty yards to the west of
the Cat-stane a large tumulus formerly stood, which was opened in 1824, and found to contain
several complete skeletons; but nearly all traces of it have now disappeared."[131]

In the tenth volume of the Statistical Account of Scotland, collected by Sir John Sinclair,
and published in 1794, the Rev. Mr. John Muckarsie, in giving an account of the parish of Kirkliston,
alludes in a note to the "Cat-stane standing on the farm of that name in this parish." In describing
it he observes "The form is an irregular prism, with the following inscription on the south-east
face, deeply cut in the stone, in a most uncouth manner:--

   IN OC T
   VMVLO IACI
   VETTA D
   VICTA

We are informed," continues Mr. Muckarsie, "by Buchanan and other historians, that there was
a bloody battle fought near this place, on the banks of the Almond, in the year 995, between
Kennethus, natural brother and commander of the forces of Malcolm II., King of Scotland, and
Constantine, the usurper of that crown, wherein both the generals were killed. About two miles
higher up the river, on the Bathgate road, is a circular mound of earth (of great antiquity,
surrounded with large unpolished stones, at a considerable distance from each other, evidently
intended in memory of some remarkable event). The whole intermediate space, from the human
bones dug up, and graves of unpolished stones discovered below the surface, seems to have been
the scene of many battles."[132]

In the discourse which the Earl of Buchan gave in 1780 to a meeting called together for the
establishment of the present Society of Scottish Antiquaries, his Lordship took occasion to
allude to the Cat-stane when wishing to point out how monuments, rude as they are, "lead us
to correct the uncertain accounts which have been handed down by the monkish writers." "Accounts,
for example, have (he observes) been given of various conflicts which took place towards the
close of the tenth century between Constantine IV. and Malcolm, the general of the lawful heir
of the Scottish Crown, on the banks of the River Almond, and decided towards its confluence
to the sea, near Kirkliston. Accordingly, from Mid-Calder, anciently called Calder-comitis,
to Kirkliston, the banks of the river are filled with the skeletons of human bodies, and the
remains of warlike weapons; and opposite to Carlowrie there is a well-known stone near the
margin of the river, called by the people Catt Stane. The following inscription was legible
on the stone in the beginning of this (the eighteenth) century; and the note of the inscription
I received from the Rev. Mr. Charles Wilkie, minister of the parish of Ecclesmachan, whose
father, Mr. John Wilkie, minister of the parish of Uphall, whilst in his younger days an inhabitant
of Kirkliston, had carefully transcribed:--

   IN HOC TUM · JAC · CONSTAN · VIC · VICT·"[133]

Lord Buchan adduces this alleged copy of the Cat-stane inscription as valuable from having
been taken early in the last century. The copy of the inscription, though averred to be old,
is, as we shall see in the sequel, doubtlessly most inaccurate. And there exist accounts of
the inscription both older and infinitely more correct and trustworthy.

The oldest and most important notice of the Cat-stane and its inscription that I know of is
published in a work where few would expect to find it--viz., in the Mona Antiqua Restaurata
of the Rev. Mr. Rowlands. It is contained in a letter addressed to that gentleman by the distinguished
Welsh archæologist, Edward Lhwyd. The date of Mr. Lhwyd's letter is "Sligo, March 12th, 1699-1700."
A short time previously he had visited Scotland, and "collected a considerable number of inscriptions."
At that time the Cat-stane was a larger and much more imposing monument than it is now, as
shown in the following description of it. "One monument," says he, "I met with within four
miles of Edinburgh, different from all I had seen elsewhere, and never observed by their antiquaries.
I take it to be the tomb of some Pictish king; though situate by a river side, remote enough
from any church. It is an area of about seven yards diameter, raised a little above the rest
of the ground, and encompassed with large stones; all which stones are laid length-wise, excepting
one larger than ordinary, which is pitched on end, and contains this inscription in the barbarous
characters of the fourth and fifth centuries, IN OC TUMULO JACIT VETTA F. VICTI. This the common
people call the Cat-Stene, whence I suspect the person's name was Getus, of which name I find
three Pictish kings; for the names pronounced by the Britons with G, were written in Latin
with V, as we find by Gwyrtheyrn, Gwyrthefyr, and Gwythelyn, which were written in Latin Vortigernus,
Vortimerus, and Vitelinus."[134]

Besides writing the preceding note to Dr. Rowland regarding the Cat-stane, Mr. Lhwyd, at the
time of his visit, took a sketch of the inscription itself. In the Philosophical Transactions
for February 1700, this sketch of the Cat-stane inscription was, with eight others, published
by Dr. Musgrave, in a brief communication entitled, "An Account of some Roman, French, and
Irish Inscriptions and Antiquities, lately found in Scotland and Ireland, by Mr. Edward Lhwyd,
and communicated to the publisher from Mr. John Hicks of Trewithier, in Cornwall." The accompanying
woodcut (Fig. 15) is an exact copy of Mr. Lhwyd's sketch, as published in the Philosophical
Transactions. In the very brief communication accompanying it, the Cat-stane is shortly described
as "A Pictish monument near Edinburgh, IN OC TUMULO JACIT VETA F. VICTI. This the common people
call the Ket-stean; note that the British names beginning with the letter Gw began in Latin
with V [and the three examples given by Lhwyd in his letter to Dr. Rowland follow]. So I suppose
(it is added) this person's name was Gweth or Geth, of which name were divers kings of the
Picts, whence the vulgar name of Ketstone."[135]

In the course of the last century, notices or readings of the Cat-stane inscription, more or
less similar to the account of it in the Philosophical Transactions, were published by different
writers, as by Sir Robert Sibbald, in 1708,[136]--by Maitland, in 1753,[137]--by Pennant, in
his journey through Scotland in 1772,[138]--and by Gough, in 1789, in the third volume of his
edition of Camden's Britannia.[139]

All the four authors whom I have quoted agree as to the reading of the inscription, and give
the two names mentioned in it, as VETTA and VICTI. But in printing the first of these names,
VETTA, Maitland and Pennant, following perhaps the text in the Philosophical Transactions,
carelessly spell it with a single instead of a double T; and Gough makes the first vowel in
VICTI an E instead of an I. Sir Robert Sibbald gives as a K the mutilated terminal letter in
the third line, which Mr. Lhwyd deciphered as an F. Sibbald's account of the stone and its
inscription, in 1708, is short but valuable, as affording an old independent reading of the
legend. It is contained in his folio essay or work entitled, Historical Inquiries Concerning
the Roman Monuments and Antiquities in Scotland (p. 50). "Close (says he) by Kirkliston water,
upon the south side, there is a square pillar over against the Mannor of Carlowry with this
inscription:--

   IN OC TV
   MVLO IACIT
   VETTA K
   VICTI

This (Sibbald continues) seemeth to have been done in later times than the former inscriptions
[viz., those left in Scotland by the Romans]. Whether it be a Pictish monument or not is uncertain;
the vulgar call it the CAT Stane."

Mr. Gough, when speaking of the stone in the latter part of the last century, states that the
inscription upon it was "not now legible." It is certainly still even sufficiently legible
and entire to prove unmistakably the accuracy of the reading of it given upwards of a century
and a half ago by Lhwyd and Sibbald. The letters come out with special distinctness when examined
with the morning sun shining on them; and indeed few ancient inscriptions in this country,
not protected by being buried, are better preserved,--a circumstance owing principally to the
very hard and durable nature of the stone itself, and the depth to which the letters have been
originally cut. The accompanying woodcut is taken from a photograph of the stone by my friend
Dr. Paterson, and very faithfully represents the inscription. The surface of the stone upon
which the letters are carved has weathered and broken off in some parts; particularly towards
the right-hand edge of the inscription. This process of disintegration has more or less affected
the terminal letters of the four lines of the inscriptions. Yet, out of the twenty-six letters
composing the legend, twenty are still comparatively entire and perfectly legible; four are
more or less defective; and two nearly obliterated. The two which are almost obliterated consist
of the first V in TVMVLO, constituting the terminal letter of the first line, and the last
vowel I, or rather, judging from the space it occupies, E in JACIT. A mere impress of the site
of the bars of the V is faintly traceable by the eye and finger, though the letter came out
in the photograph. Only about an inch of the middle portion of the upright bar of I or E in
JACIT can be traced by sight or touch. In this same word, also, the lower part of the C and
the cross stroke of the T is defective. But even if the inscription had not been read when
these letters were more entire, such defects in particular letters are not assuredly of a kind
to make any palæographer entertain a doubt as to the two words in which these defects occur
being TVMVLO and JACIT.

The terminal letter in the third line[140] was already defective in the time of Edward Lhwyd,
as shown by the figure of it in his sketch. (See woodcut, No. 15.) Sibbald prints it as a K,
a letter without any attachable meaning. Lhwyd read it as an F (followed apparently by a linear
point or stop), and held it to signify--what F so often does signify in the common established
formula of these old inscriptions--F(ILIVS). The upright limb of this F appears still well
cut and distinct; but the stone is much hollowed out and destroyed immediately to the right,
where the two cross bars of the letter should be. The site of the upper cross-bar of the letter
is too much decayed and excavated to allow of any distinct recognition of it. The site, however,
of a small portion of the middle cross bar is traceable at the point where it is still united
to and springs from the upright limb of the letter. Beyond, or to the right of this letter
F, a line about half-an-inch long, forming possibly a terminal stop or point of a linear type,
commences on the level of the lower line of the letters, and runs obliquely upwards and outwards,
till it is now lost above in the weathered and hollowed-out portion of stone. Its site is nearer
the upright limb or basis of the F than it is represented to be in the sketch of Mr. Lhwyd,
where it is figured as constituting a partly continuous extension downwards of the middle bar
of the letter itself. And perhaps it is not a linear point, but more truly, as Lhwyd figures
it, the lower portion of a form of the middle bar of F, of an unusual though not unknown type.
The immediate descent or genealogy of those whom these Romano-British inscriptions commemorate
is often given on the stones, but their status or profession is seldom mentioned. We have exceptions
in the case of one or two royal personages, as in the famous inscription in Anglesey to "CATAMANUS,
REX SAPIENTISSIMUS OPINATISSIMUS OMNIUM REGUM." The rank and office of priests are in several
instances also commemorated with their names, as in the Kirkmadrine Stone in Galloway. In the
churchyard of Llangian, in Caernarvonshire, there is a stone with an ancient inscription written
not horizontally, but vertically (as is the case with regard to most of the Cornish inscribed
stones), and where MELUS, the son of MARTINUS, the person commemorated, is a physician--MEDICVS.
But the inscription is much more interesting in regard to our present inquiry in another point.
For--as the accompanying woodcut of the Llangian inscription shows--the F in the word FILI
is very much of the same type or form as the F seen by Lhwyd in the Cat-stane, and drawn by
him. (See his sketch in the preceding woodcut, Fig. 15.) The context and position of this letter
F in the Llangian legend leaves no doubt of its true character. The form is old; Mr. Westwood
considers the age of the Llangian inscription as "not later than the fifth century."[141] An
approach to the same form of F in the same word FILI, is seen in an inscribed stone which formerly
stood at Pant y Polion in Wales, and is now removed to Dolan Cothy House. Again, in some instances,
as in the Romano-British stones at Llandysilir, Clyddan, Llandyssul, etc., where the F in Filius
is tied to the succeeding I, the conjoined letters present an appearance similar to the F on
the Cat-stane as figured by Lhwyd.

While all competent authorities are nearly agreed as to the lettering and reading of the first
three lines, latterly the terminal letter of the fourth or last line has given rise to some
difference of opinion. Lhwyd, Sibbald, and Pennant, unhesitatingly read the whole last line
as VICTI. Lhwyd, in his sketch of the inscription, further shows that, following the last I,
there is a stop or point of a linear form. The terminal I is three inches long, while the linear
point or stop following it is fully an inch in length. Between it and the terminal I is a smooth
space on the stone of five or six lines. Latterly this terminal I, with its superadded linear
point, has been supposed by Mr. Muckarsie to be an A, and by Dr. Wilson to be an R. Both suppositions
appear to me to be erroneous; and of this one or two considerations will, I think, satisfy
any cautious observer who will examine carefully either the stone itself, or the cast of the
inscription that was made in 1824--copies of which are placed in our own and in other museums.
Mr. Muckarsie and Dr. Wilson hold the upright bar forming the letter I to be the primary upright
bar of an A or R; and they think the remaining portions of these letters to be indicated or
formed by the linear stop figured by Lhwyd. That the letter is not A, is shown by the bar being
quite perpendicular, and not oblique or slanting, as in the two other A's in the inscription.
Besides, the middle cross stroke of the A is wanting; and the second descending bar of the
letter is quite deficient in length--a deficiency not explicable by mutilation from the weathering
of the stone, as the stone happens to be still perfectly entire both at the uppermost and the
lowest end of this bar or line. This last reason is also in itself a strong if not a sufficient
ground for rejecting the idea that the letter is an R; inasmuch as if it had been an R, the
tail of the letter would have been found prolonged downwards to the base line of the other
letters in the word. For it is to be held in remembrance, that though the forms of the letters
in this inscription are rude and debased, yet they are all cut with firmness and fulness.

The idea that the terminal letter of the inscription is an R seems still more objectionable
in another point of view. To make it an R at all, we can only suppose the disputed "line" to
be the lowest portion of the segment of the loop or semicircular head of the R. The line, which
is about an inch long, is straight, however, and not a part of a round curve or a circle, such
as we know the mason who carved this inscription could and did cut, as witnessed by his O's
and C's. Besides, if this straight line had formed the lower segment of the semicircular loop
or head of an R, then the highest point of that R would have stood so disproportionately elevated
above the top line or level of the other letters in this word, as altogether to oppose and
differ from what we see in the other parts of this inscription. This same reason bears equally
against another view which perhaps might be taken; namely, that the straight line in question
is the tail or terminal right-hand stroke of the R, placed nearly horizontally, as is occasionally
the form of this letter in some early inscriptions, like those of Yarrow and Llangian. But
if this view be adopted, then the loop or semicircular head of the R must be considered as
still more disproportionately displaced upwards above the common level of the top line; for
in this view the whole loop or head must have stood entirely above this straight horizontal
line, which line itself reaches above the middle height of the upright bar forming the I. Immediately
above the horizontal line, for a space about an inch or more in depth, and some ten or twelve
inches in length, there has been a weathering and chipping off of a splinter of the surface
of the stone, as indicated by its commencement in an abrupt, curved, rugged edge above. This
lesion or fracture of the stone has, I believe, originally given rise to the idea of the semblance
of this terminal letter of the inscription to an R. Probably, also, this disintegration is
comparatively recent; for in the last century Lhwyd, Sibbald, Maitland, and Pennant, all unhesitatingly
lay down the terminal letter as an I. But even if it were an A or an R, and not an I and hyphen
point, this would not affect or alter the view which I will take in the sequel, that the last
word in the inscription is a Latinised form of the surname VICTA or WECTA; as, amid the numberless
modifications to which the orthography of ancient names is subjected by our early chroniclers,
the historic name in question is spelled by Ethelwerd with a terminal R,--in one place as UUITHAR,
and in another as WITHER.[142] Altogether, however, I feel assured that the more accurately
we examine the inscription as still left, and the more we take into consideration the well-known
caution and accuracy of Edward Lhwyd as an archæologist, the more do we feel assured that his
reading of the Cat-stane legend, when he visited and copied it upwards of a hundred and sixty
years ago is strictly correct, viz.--

   IN OC TV
   MVLO JACIT
   VETTA F.
   VICTI.

Palæographic Peculiarities.

The palæographic characters of the inscription scarcely require any comment. As in most other
Roman and Romano-British inscriptions, the words run into each other without any intervening
space to mark their separation. The letters all consist of debased Roman capitals. They generally
vary from two and a half to three inches in length; but the O in the first line is only one
and a half inch deep. The O in TVMVLO in these ancient inscriptions is often, as in the Cat-stane,
smaller than the other letters. M. Edmond Le Blant gives numerous marked instances of this
peculiarity of the small O in the same words, "IN HoC TVMVLo," in his work on the early Romano-Gaulish
inscriptions of France.[143] Most of the letters in the Cat-stane inscription are pretty well
formed, and firmly though rudely cut. The oblique direction of the bottom stroke of L in TVMVLO
is a form of that letter often observable in other old Romano-British inscriptions, as on the
stone at Llanfaglan in Wales. The M in the same word has its first and last strokes splaying
outwardly; a peculiarity seen in many old Roman and Romano-British monuments--as is also the
tying together of this letter with the following V. In the Romano-British inscription upon
the stone found at Yarrow, and which was brought under the notice of the Society by Dr. John
Alexander Smith, there are three interments, as it were, recorded, the last of them in these
words;[144]

         ... HIC IACENT
   IN TVMVLO DVO FILI
   LIBERALI.

The letters on this Yarrow stone are--with one doubtful exception[145]--Roman capitals, of
a ruder, and hence perhaps later, type than those cut on the Cat-stane; but the letters MV
in TVMVLO are tied together in exactly the same way on the two stones. The omission of the
aspirate in (H)OC, as seen on the Cat-stane, is by no means rare. The so-called bilingual,
or Latin and Ogham, inscribed stone at Llanfechan, Wales, has upon it the Latin legend TRENACATVS
IC JACET FILIVS MAGLAGNI--the aspirate being wanting in the word HIC. It is wanting also in
the same way, and in the same word, in the inscription on the Maen Madoc stone, near Ystradfellte--viz.,
DERVACI FILIVS IVLII IC IACIT; and on the Turpillian stone near Crickhowel. In a stone, described
by Mr. Westwood, and placed on the road from Brecon to Merthyr, the initial aspirate in "hoc"
is not entirely dropped, but is cut in an uncial form, while all the other letters are Roman
capitals; thus IN hOC TVMULO.

Linear hyphen-like stops, such as Lhwyd represents at the end of the fourth, and probably also
of the third line on the Cat-stane inscription, seem not to be very rare. In the remarkable
inscription on the Caerwys stone, now placed at Downing Whitford, "Here lies a good and noble
woman"--[146]

   HIC JACIT / MVLI
   ER BONA NOBILI(S)

an oblique linear point appears in the middle of the legend, after the word JACIT. The linear
stop on the Cat-stane inscription, at the end of the fourth line, is, as already stated, fully
an inch in length, but it is scarcely so deep as the cuts forming the letters; and the original
surface of the stone at both ends of this terminal linear stop is very perfect and sound, showing
that the line was not extended either upwards or downwards into any form of letter. Straight
or hyphen lines, at the end both of words--especially of the proper names--and of the whole
inscriptions, have been found on various Romano-British stones, as on those of Margan (the
Naen Llythyrog), Stackpole, and Clydau, and have been supposed to be the letter I, placed horizontally,
while all the other letters in these inscriptions are placed perpendicularly. Is it not more
probable that they are merely points? Or do they not sometimes, like tied letters, represent
both an I and a stop?

WHO IS COMMEMORATED IN THE CAT-STANE INSCRIPTION?

In the account which Mr. George Chalmers gives of the Antiquities of Linlithgowshire in his
Caledonia, there is no notice of the inscription on the Cat-stane taken; but, with a degree
of vagueness of which this author is seldom guilty, he remarks, that this monolith "is certainly
a memorial of some conflict and of some person."[147]

Is it not possible, however, to obtain a more definite idea of the person who is named on the
stone, and in commemoration of whom it was raised?

In the extracts that have been already given, it has been suggested, by different writers whom
I have cited, that the Cat-stane commemorates a Scottish king, Constantine IV., or a Pictish
king, Geth. Let us first examine into the probability of these two suggestions.

1. CONSTANTINE?--In the olden lists of our Scottish kings, four King Constantines occur. The
Cat-stane has been imagined by Lord Buchan and Mr. Muckarsie to have been raised in memory
of the last of these--viz., of Constantine IV., who fell in a battle believed by these writers
to have been fought on this ground in the last years of the tenth century, or about A.D. 995.
In the New Statistical Account of Scotland, the Reverend Mr. Tait, the present minister of
Kirkliston, farther speaks of the "Catstean (as) supposed to be a corruption of Constantine,
and to have been erected to the honour of Constantine, one of the commanders in the same engagement,
who was there slain and interred."[148]

In the year 970 the Scottish king Culen died, having been "killed (according to the Ulster
Annals), by the Britons in open battle;" and in A.D. 994, his successor, Kenneth MacMalcolm,
the founder of Brechin, was slain.[149] Constantine, the son of Culen, reigned for the next
year and a half, and fell in a battle for the crown fought between him and Kenneth, the son
of Malcolm I. The site of this battle was, according to most of our ancient authorities, on
the Almond. There are two rivers of this name in Scotland, one in Perthshire and the other
in the Lothians. George Chalmers places the site of the battle in which Constantine fell on
the Almond in Perthshire; Fordun, Boece, and Buchanan place it on the Almond in the Lothians,
upon the banks of which the Cat-stane stands. The battle was fought, to borrow the words of
the Scotichronicon, "in Laudonia juxta ripam amnis Almond."[150] The Chronicle of Melrose gives
(p. 226) the "Avon"--the name of another large stream in the Lothians--as the river that was
the site of the battle in question. Wynton (vol. i. p. 182) speaks of it as the "Awyne." Bishop
Leslie transfers this same fight to the banks of the Annan in Dumfriesshire, describing it
as having occurred during an invasion of Cumbria, "ad Annandiæ amnis ostia."[151]

Among the authorities who speak of this battle or of the fall of Constantine, some describe
these events as having occurred at the source, others at the mouth of the Almond or Avon. Thus
the ancient rhyming chronicle, cited in the Scotichronicon, gives the locality of Constantine's
fall as "ad caput amnis Amond."[152] The Chronicle of Melrose, when entering the fall of "Constantinus
Calwus," quotes the same lines, with such modifications as follows:[153]--

   "Rex Constantinus, Culeno filius ortus,
     Ad caput amnis Avon ense peremtus erat,
   In Tegalere; regens uno rex et semis annis,
     Ipsum Kinedus Malcolomida ferit."

Wyntown cites the two first of these Latin lines, changing, as I have said, the name of the
river to Awyne, almost, apparently, for the purpose of getting a vernacular rhyme, and then
himself tells us, that

   "At the Wattyr hed of Awyne,
   The King Gryme slwe this Constantyne."[154]

If the word "Tegalere" in the Melrose Chronicle be a true reading,[155] and the locality could
be identified under the same or a similar derivative name, the site of the battle might be
fixed, and the point ascertained whether it took place, as the preceding authorities aver,
at the source, "water-head" or "caput" of the river; or, as Hector, Boece and George Buchanan[156]
describe it, at its mouth or entrance into the Forth at Cramond; "ad Amundæ amnis ostia tribus
passuum millibus ab Edinburgo."[157] A far older and far more valuable authority than either
Boece or Buchanan, namely, the collector of the list of the Scottish and Pictish kings, extracted
by Sir Robert Sibbald from the now lost register of the Priory of St. Andrews,[158] seems also
to place the death of King Constantine at the mouth of the Almond, if we interpret aright the
entry in it of "interfectus in Rathveramoen" as meaning "Rath Inver Amoen,"--the rath or earth-fortress
at the mouth of the Amoen.[159]

Even, however, were it allowed that the battle in which Constantine perished was fought upon
the Almond, and not upon the Avon, on the stream of the former name in the Lothians and not
in Perthshire, at the mouth and not at the source of the river, there still, after all, remains
no evidence whatever that the Cat-stane was raised in commemoration of the fall of the Scottish
king; whilst there is abundant evidence to the contrary. The very word "Inver," in the last
of the designations which I have adduced, is strongly against this idea. For the term "Inver,"
when applied to a locality on a stream, almost invariably means the mouth of it,[160] and not
a site on its course--such as the Cat-stane occupies--three miles above its confluence. Nor
is there any probability that an inscribed monument would be raised in honour of a king who,
like Constantine, fell in a civil war,--who was the last of his own branch of the royal house
that reigned,--and was distinguished, as the ancient chroniclers tell us, by the contemptuous
appellation of Calvus. There is great reason, indeed, to believe that the idea of the Cat-stane
being connected with the fall of Constantine is comparatively modern in its origin. Oral tradition
sometimes creates written history; but, on the other hand, written history sometimes creates
oral tradition. And in the present instance a knowledge of the statements of our ancient historians
in all probability gave rise to such attempts as that of Mr. Wilkie--to find, namely, a direct
record of Constantine in the Cat-stane inscription. But when we compare the inscription itself,
as read a century and a half ago by Lhwyd and Sibbald, and as capable of being still read at
the present day, with the edition of it as given by Lord Buchan, it is impossible not to conclude
that the idea of connecting the legend with the name of Constantine is totally without foundation.
For, besides minor errors in punctuation and letterings, such as the total omission in Lord
Buchan's copy of the inscription of the three last letters VLO of "TVMVLO," the changing of
VETTA to VIC, etc., we have the two terminal letters of JACIT--viz. the IT, changed into the
seven-lettered word CONSTAN, apparently with no object but the support of a theory as to the
person commemorated in the legend and the monolith. Most assuredly there is not the very slightest
trace of any letters on the surface of the stone where the chief part of the word CONSTAN is
represented as existing--viz., after JACIT. It would be difficult, perhaps, to adduce a case
of more flagrant incorrectness in copying an inscription than Mr. Wilkie's and Lord Buchan's
reading of the Cat-stane legend affords. Mr. Gough, in his edition of Camden's Britannia (1784),
only aggravates this misrepresentation. For whilst he incorrectly states that the inscription
is "not now legible," he carelessly changes Mr. Wilkie's alleged copy of the leading word from
CONSTAN to CONSTANTIE, and suppresses altogether the word VIC.

GETUS, GWETH, or GETH?--I have already cited Mr. Lhwyd's conjecture that the Cat-stane is "the
tomb of some Pictish King," and the opinion expressed by him and Mr. Hicks, that taking the
V in the Latin VETTA of the inscription as equal to the Pictish letters G or Gw, the name of
the Pictish king commemorated by the stone was Getus, "of which name," observes Mr. Lhwyd,
"I find three Pictish kings." In the analogous account sent by Mr. Hicks to the Philosophical
Transactions along with Mr. Lhwyd's sketch of the Cat-stane, it is stated that the person's
name on "this Pictish monument" was Gweth or Geth, "of which name," it is added, "were divers
kings of the Picts, whence the vulgar name of Ketstone."

It is unnecessary to stop and comment on the unsoundness of this reasoning, and the improbability--both
as to the initial and terminal letters--of the surname VETTA in this Latin inscription being
similar to the Pictish surname Geth or GETUS, as Lhwyd himself gives and writes it in its Latin
form. Among the lists of the Pictish kings, whilst we have several names beginning with G,
we have some also commencing in the Latinised forms of the Chronicles with V, as Vist, Vere,
Vipoignamet, etc.

But a much more important objection exists against the conjecture of Mr. Lhwyd, in the fact
that his memory had altogether misled him as to there having been "three" Pictish kings of
the name of "Getus," or "divers kings of the Picts of the names of Geth or Gweth," to use the
words employed in the Philosophical Transactions.

Lists, more or less complete, of the Pictish kings have been found in the Histories of Fordun
and Winton, in the pages of the Scalacronica and Chronicles of Tighernach, in the Irish copy
of Nennius, in the extracts published by Sir Robert Sibbald and Father Innes from the lost
Register of St. Andrews, and in the old Chronicum Regum Pictorum, supposed to be written about
A.D. 1020, and preserved in the Colbertine Library.

None of these lists include a Pictish king of the name of Getus, Geat, or Gweth. Some of the
authorities--as the Register of St. Andrews, Fordun, and Winton--enter as the second king of
the Picts Ghede or Gede, the Gilgidi of the Chronicum Regum Pictorum; and this latter chronicle
contains in its more mythical and earlier part the appellations Got, Gedeol, Guidid, and Brude-Guith;
but none of these surnames sufficiently correspond either to Mr. Lhwyd's statement or to the
requirements of the inscription.

But whilst thus setting aside the conjectures as to the Cat-stane commemorating the name of
a Scottish King Constantine, or of a Pictish King Geth, I would further remark that the surname
in the inscription, namely--VETTA FILIUS VICTI--is one which appears to me to be capable of
another and a more probable solution. With this view let us proceed then to inquire who was

VETTA, the son of VICTUS?

And first, I would beg to remark, that the word Vetta is still too distinct upon the Cat-stane
to allow of any doubt as to the mere name of the person commemorated in the inscription upon it.

Secondly, The name of Vetta, or, to spell the word in its more common Saxon forms, Wetta or
Witta, is a Teutonic surname. To speak more definitely, it pertains to the class of surnames
which characterised these so-called Saxon or Anglo-Saxon invaders of our island, and allied
Germanic tribes, who overran Britain upon the decline of the Roman dominion amongst us.

Bede speaks, as is well known, of our original Teutonic conquerors in the fifth century as
coming from three powerful tribes of Germany; namely, the Saxons, Angles, and Jutes. "Advenerant
autem de tribus Germaniæ populis fortioribus, id est, Saxonibus, Anglis, Jutis" (lib. i. c.
20).[161] Ubo Emmius, in his History of the Frisians, maintains that "more colonies from Friesland
than Saxony, settled in Briton, whether under the names of Jutes, or of Angles, or later of
the Saxons."[162] Procopius, who lived nearly two centuries before Bede, and had access to
good means of information from being the secretary of the Emperor Belisarius, states that at
the time of his writing (about A.D. 548) three numerous nations possessed Britain, the Angles
and Frisians ([Greek: Angeloi te kai phrissones]), and those surnamed, from the Island, Brittones.[163]
Modern Friesland seems to have yielded a considerable number of our Teutonic invaders and colonists;
and it is in that isolated country that we find, at all events, the characteristics and language
of our Teutonic forefathers best preserved. In his History of England during the Anglo-Saxon
Period, the late Sir Francis Palgrave remarks, "The tribes by whom Britain was invaded, appear
principally to have proceeded from the country now called Friesland. Of all the continental
dialects (he adds), the ancient Frisick is the one which approaches most nearly to the Anglo-Saxon
of our ancestors."[164] "The nearest approach," according to Dr. Latham, "to our genuine and
typical German or Anglo-Saxon forefathers, is not to be found within the four seas of Britain,
but in the present Frisian or Friesland."[165] At present, about one hundred thousand inhabitants
of Friesland speak the ancient or Country-Friesic, a language unintelligible to the surrounding
Dutch, but which remains still nearly allied to the old Anglo-Saxon of England. Some even of
their modern surnames are repetitions of the most ancient Anglo-Saxon surnames in our island,
and, among others, still include that of Vetta or Witta; thus showing its Teutonic origin.
In discussing the great analogies between ancient Anglo-Saxon and modern Friesic, Dr. Bosworth,
the learned Professor of Anglo-Saxon Literature at Oxford, incidentally remarks, "I cannot
omit to mention that the leaders of the Anglo-Saxons bear names which are now in use by the
Friesians, though by time a little altered or abbreviated. They have Horste, Hengst, WITTE,
Wiggele, etc., for the Anglo-Saxon Horsa, Hengist, WITTA, Wightgil, etc."[166]

But Witta or Vetta was not a common name among our more leading Anglo-Saxon forefathers. Among
the many historical surnames occurring in ancient Saxon annals and English chronicles, the
name of Vetta, as far as I know, only occurs twice or thrice.

I. It is to be found in the ancient Saxon poem of The Scop, or Traveller's Tale, where, among
a list of numerous kings and warriors, Vetta or Witta is mentioned as having ruled the Swaefs--

   "Witta weold Swæfum."[167]

The Swaefs or Suevi were originally, as we know from classical writers, a German tribe, or
confederacy of tribes, located eastward of the old Angles; and Ptolemy indeed includes these
Angles as a branch of the Suevi. But possibly the Swaefs ruled by Wittan, and mentioned in
The Scop in the preceding line, and in others (see lines 89 and 123), were a colony from this
tribe settled in England.

II. In the list of the ancient Anglo-Saxon Bishops of Lichfield, given by Florence of Worcester,
the name "Huita" occurs as tenth on the roll.[168] Under the year 737, Simeon of Durham enters
the consecration of this bishop, spelling his name as Hweicca and Hweitta.[169] In a note appended
to Florence's Chronicle, under the year 775, his death is recorded, and his name given as Witta.[170]

III. The name Vetta occupies a constant and conspicuous place in the lineage of Hengist and
Horsa, as given by Bede, Nennius, the Saxon Chronicle, etc. In the list of their pedigree,
Vetta or Witta is always represented as the grandfather of the Teutonic brothers.

The inscription on the Cat-stane further affords, however, a most important additional element
or criterion for ascertaining the particular Vetta in memory of whom it was raised; for it
records the name of his father, Victus or Victa. And in relation to the present inquiry, it
is alike interesting and important to find that in the genealogy given by our ancient chronicles
of the predecessors of Hengist and Horsa, whilst Vetta is recorded as their grandfather, Victi
or Wecta is, with equal constancy, represented as their great-grandfather. The old lapidary
writing on the Cat-stane describes the Vetta for whom that monument was raised as the son of
Vecta; and the old parchment and paper writings of our earliest chroniclers invariably describe
the same relationship between the Vetta and Victa of the forefathers of Hengist and Horsa.
Thus Bede, when describing the invasion of England by the German tribes in the time of Vortigern,
states that their "leaders were two brothers, Hengist and Horsa, who were the sons of Victgils,
whose father was Vitta, whose father was Vecta, whose father was Woden, from whose stock the
royal race of many provinces deduces its origin," "Erant autem filii Victgilsi, cujus pater
Vitta, cujus pater Vecta, cujus pater Voden, de cujus stirpe multarum provinciarum regum genus
originem duxit."[171] In accordance with a common peculiarity in his orthography of proper
names, and owing also, perhaps, to the character of the Northumbrian dialect of the Anglo-Saxon
tongue, Bede spells the preceding and other similar surnames with an initial V, while by most
other Anglo-Saxon chroniclers, and in most other Anglo-Saxon dialects, the surnames are made
to commence with a W. Thus, the Vilfrid, Valchstod, Venta, etc., of Bede,[172] form the Wilfrid,
Walchstod, Wenta (Winchester), etc., of other Saxon writers. In this respect Bede adheres so
far to the classic Roman standard in the spelling of proper names. Thus, for example, the Isle
of Wight, which was written as Wecta by the Saxons, is the Vecta and Vectis of Ptolemy and
Eutropius, and the Vecta also of Bede; and the name Venta, just now referred to as spelled
so by Bede, is also the old Roman form of spelling that word, as seen in the Itinerary of Antonine.

The Saxon Chronicle gives the details of the first advent of the Saxons under Hengist and Horsa
in so nearly the same words as the Historia Ecclesiastica, as to leave no doubt that this,
like many other passages in the earlier parts of the Saxon Chronicle, were mere translations
of the statements of Bede. But most copies of the Saxon Chronicle were written in the dialect
of the West Saxons, and, consequently, under A.D. 449, they commence the surnames in the pedigree
of our Saxon invaders with a W,--as Wightgils, Witta, Wecta, etc.; telling us that Hengist
and Horsa, "waeron Wihtgilses suna, Wihtgils waes Witting, Witta Wecting, Wecta Wodning," etc.

Ethelwerd, an Anglo-Saxon nobleman, who himself claimed to be a descendant of the royal stock
of Woden, has left us a Latin history or Chronicle, "nearly the whole of which is an abridged
translation of the Saxon Chronicle, with a few trivial alterations and additions."[173] In
retranslating back into Latin, the Anglo-Saxon names in the genealogy of Hengist and Horsa,
he makes the Wecta of the Saxon Chronicle end with an R,--a matter principally of interest
because, as we have already seen, some have supposed the corresponding name in the Cat-stane
to terminate with an R. Speaking of Hengist as leader of the Angles[174] Ethelwerd describes
his pedigree thus:--"Cujus pater fuit Wihtgels avus Wicta; proavus WITHER, atavus Wothen,"
etc. In a previous page,[175] the same author tells us that "Hengest et Horsa filii Uuyrhtelsi,
avus eorum Uuicta, et proavus eorum Uuithar, atavus eorum Uuothen, qui est rex multitudinis
barbarorum."

In the preceding paragraphs we find the same authors, or at least the scribes who copied their
writings, spelling the same names in very diverse ways. All know how very various, and sometimes
almost endless, is the orthography of proper nouns and names among our ancient chroniclers,
and among our mediæval writers and clerks also. Thus Lord Lindsay, in his admirable Lives of
the Lindsays, gives examples of above a hundred different ways in which he has found his own
family name spelled. In the Historia Britonum, usually attributed to Nennius, the pedigree
of the Saxon invaders of Kent is given at greater length than by Bede; for it is traced back
four or five generations beyond Woden[176] up to Geat, and the spelling of the four races from
Woden to Hengist and Horsa is varied according to the Celtic standard of orthography, as cited
already from Edward Lhwyd--namely, the Latin and Saxon initials V and W are changed to the
Cymric or British G, or GU. In the same way, the Isle of Wight, "Vecta" or "Wecta," is spelled
in Nennius "Guith" and "Guied;" Venta (Winchester) is written Guincestra; Vortigernus, Guorthigernus;
Wuffa, king of the east Angles, Guffa; etc. etc. In only one, as far as I am aware, of the
old manuscript copies of the Historia Britonum, is the pedigree of Hengist and Horsa spelled
as it is by Bede and all the Saxon writers, with an initial V or W, as Wictgils, Witta, Wecta,
and Woden. This copy belongs to the Royal Library in Paris, and the orthography alone sufficiently
determines it to have been made by an Anglo-Saxon scribe or editor. Of some twenty-five or
thirty other known manuscripts of the same work, most, if not all, spell the ancestors of Hengist
with the initial Keltic GU,--as "Guictgils, Guitta, Guechta"--one, among other arguments, for
the belief that the original and most ancient part of this composite Historia was penned, if
not, as asserted in many of the copies, by Gildas, a Strathclyde Briton, at least by a British
or Cymric hand. The account given in the work of the arrival of the Saxons is as follows:--"Interea
venerunt tres ciulæ a Germania expulsæ in exilio, in quibus erant Hors et Hengist, qui et ipsi
fratres erant, filii Guictgils, filii Guitta, filii Guechta, filii Vuoden, filii Frealaf, filii
Fredulf, filii Finn, filii Folcwald, filii Geta, qui fuit, aiunt filius Dei. Non ipse est Deus
Deorum Amen, Deus exercitum, sed unus est ab idolis eorum quæ ipsi colebant."[177] In this
pedigree of the ancestors of Hengist and Horsa, it is deserving of remark that Woden, from
whom the various Anglo-Saxon kings of England, and other kings of the north-west of Europe
generally claimed their royal descent, is entered as a historical personage, living (according
to the usual reckoning applied to genealogies) about the beginning of the third century, and
who could count his descent back to Geat; while the Irish and other authorities affect to trace
his pedigree for some generations even beyond this last-named ancestor.[178] According to Mallet,
the true name of this great conqueror and ruler of the north-western tribes of Europe was "Sigge,
son of Fridulph; but he assumed the name of Odin, who was the supreme god among the Teutonic
nations, either to pass, among his followers, for a man inspired by the gods, or because he
was chief priest, and presided over the worship paid to that deity."[179] In his conquering
progress towards the north-west of Europe, he subdued, continues Mallet, "all the people he
found in his passage, giving them to one or other of his sons for subjects. Many sovereign
families (he adds) of the north are said to be descended from those princes." And Hengist and
Horsa were thus, as was many centuries ago observed by William of Malmesbury, "the great-great-grandsons
of that Woden from whom the royal families of almost all the barbarous nations derive their
lineage, and to whom the Angles have consecrated the fourth day of the week (Wodens-day), and
the sixth unto his wife Frea (Frey-day), by a sacrilege which lasts even to this time."[180]

Henry of Huntingdon, in his Historiæ Anglorum, gives the pedigree of Hengist and Horsa according
to the list which he found in Nennius; but he changes back the spelling to the Saxon form.
They were, he says, "Filii Widgils, filii Wecta, filii Vecta, filii Woden, filii Frealof, filii
Fredulf, filii Fin, filii Flocwald, filii Ieta (Geta)." Florence of Worcester follows the shorter
genealogy of Bede, giving in his text the names of the ancestors of Hengist and Horsa as Wictgils,
Witta, and Wecta; and in his table of the pedigrees of the kings of Kent spelling these same
names Wihtgils, Witta, and Wehta.[181]

In giving the ancient genealogy of Hengist and Horsa, we thus find our old chroniclers speaking
of their grandfather under the various orthographic forms of Guitta, Uuicta, Witta, Vitta;
and their great-grandfather as Guechta, Uuethar, Wither, Wechta, Wecta, and Vecta. In the Cat-stane
inscription the last--Vecta or Victa--is placed in the genitive, and construed as a noun of
the second declension, whilst Vetta retains, as a nominative, its original Saxon form. The
older chroniclers frequently alter the Saxon surnames in this way. Thus, Horsa is sometimes
made, like Victa, a noun of the second declension, in conjunction with the use of Hengist,
Vortimer, etc., as unaltered nominatives. Thus, Nennius tells us,[182] "Guortemor cum Hengist
et Horso ... pugnabat." (cap. xlvi.) According to Henry of Huntingdon, "Gortimer ... ex obliquo
aciem Horsi desrupit," etc. (Lib. ii.)

The double and distinctive name of "Vetta filius Victa," occurring, as it thus does, in the
lineage of Hengist and Horsa, as given both (1) in our oldest written chronicles and (2) in
the old inscription carved upon the Cat-stane, is in itself a strong argument for the belief
that the same personage is indicated in these two distinct varieties of ancient lettered documents.
This inference, however, becomes still stronger when we consider the rarity of the appellation
Vetta, and the great improbability of there having ever existed two historic individuals of
this name both of them the sons of two Victas. But still, it must be confessed, various arguments
naturally spring up in the mind against the idea that in the Cat-stane we have a memorial of
the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa. Let us look at some of these reasons, and consider their
force and bearing.

Some Objections considered.

Perhaps, as one of the first objections, I should notice the doubts which some writers have
expressed as to such leaders as Hengist and Horsa having ever existed, and as to the correctness,
therefore, of that genealogy of the Saxon kings of Kent in which Hengist and Horsa are included.[183]

The two most ancient lists of that lineage exist, as is well known, in the "Historia Britonum"
of Gildas or Nennius, and in the "Historia Ecclesiastica" of Bede.

The former of these genealogical lists differs from the latter in being much longer, and in
carrying the pedigree several generations beyond the great Teutonic leader Woden, backwards
to his eastern forefather, Geat, whom Mr. Kemble and others hold to have been probably the
hero Woden, whose semi-divine memory the northern tribes worshipped. Both genealogical lists
agree in all their main particulars back to Woden--and so far corroborate the accuracy of each
other. Whence the original author of the Historia Britonum derived his list, is as unknown
as the original authorship of the work itself. Some of Bede's sources of information are alluded
to by himself. Albinus, Abbot of St. Augustine's, Canterbury, and Nothhelm, afterwards Archbishop
of Canterbury, "appear," observes Mr. Stevenson, "to have furnished Bede with chronicles in
which he found accurate and full information upon the pedigrees, accessions, marriages, exploits,
descendants, deaths and burials of the kings of Kent."[184] That the genealogical list itself
is comparatively accurate, there are not wanting strong reasons for believing. The kings of
the different seven or eight small Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of England all claimed--as the very
condition and charter of their regality--a direct descent from Woden, through one or other
of his several sons. To be a king among our Anglo-Saxon forefathers, it was necessary, and
indeed indispensable, both to be a descendant of Woden, and to be able to prove this descent.
The chronicles of most ancient people, as the Jews, Irish, Scots, etc., show us how carefully
the pedigree of their royal and noble families was anciently kept and retained. And surely
there is no great wonder in the Saxon kings of Kent keeping up faithfully a knowledge of their
pedigree--say from Bede's time, backwards, through the nine or ten generations up to Hengist,
or the additional four generations up to Woden. The wonder would perhaps have been much greater
if they had omitted to keep up a knowledge, by tradition, poems, or chronicles, of a pedigree
upon which they, and the other kings of the Saxon heptarchy, rested and founded--as descendants
of Woden--their whole title to royalty, and their claim and charter to their respective thrones.[185]

But a stronger objection against the idea of the Cat-stane being a monument to the grandfather
of Hengist and Horsa rises up in the question,--Is there any proof or probability that an ancestor
of Hengist and Horsa fought and fell in this northern part of the island, two generations before
the arrival of these brothers in Kent?

It is now generally allowed, by our best historians, that before the arrival of Hengist and
Horsa in Kent, Britain was well known at least to the Saxons and Frisians, and other allied
Teutonic tribes.

Perhaps from a very early period the shores and comparative riches of our island were known
to the Teutons or Germans inhabiting the opposite continental coast. "It seems hardly conceivable,"
observes Mr. Kemble, "that Frisians who occupied the coast (of modern Holland) as early as
the time of Cæsar, should not have found their way to Britain."[186] We know from an incident
referred to by Tacitus, in his Life of Agricola, that at all events the passage in the opposite
direction from Britain to the north-west shores of the Continent was accidentally revealed--if
not, indeed, known long before--during the first years of the Roman conquest of Scotland. For
Tacitus tells us that in A.D. 83 a cohort of Usipians, raised in Germany, and belonging to
Agricola's army, having seized some Roman vessels, sailed across the German Ocean, and were
seized as pirates, first by the Suevi and afterwards by the Frisians (Vita Agricolæ, xlv. 2,
and xlvi. 2). In Agricola's Scottish army there were other Teutonic or German conscripts. According
to Tacitus, at the battle of the Mons Grampius three cohorts of Batavians and two cohorts of
Tungrians specially distinguished themselves in the defeat of the Caledonian army. Various
inscriptions by these Tungrian cohorts have been dug up at Cramond, and at stations along the
two Roman walls, as at Castlecary and Housesteads. At Manchester, a cohort of Frisians seems
to have been located during nearly the whole era of the Roman dominion.[187] Another cohort
of Frisian auxiliaries seems, according to Horsley, to have been stationed at Bowess in Richmondshire.[188]
Teutonic officers were occasionally attached to other Roman corps than those of their own countrymen.
A Frisian citizen, for example, was in the list of officers of the Thracian cavalry at Cirencester.[189]
The celebrated Carausius, himself a Menapian, and hence probably of Teutonic origin, was, before
he assumed the emperorship of Britain, appointed by the Roman authorities admiral of the fleet
which they had collected for the purpose of repressing the incursions of the Franks, Saxons,
and other piratical tribes, who at that date (A.D. 287) ravaged the shores of Britain and Gaul.[190]

In the famous Roman document termed "Notitia utriusque Imperii," the fact that there were Saxon
settlers in England before the arrival of Hengist and Horsa seems settled, by the appointment
of a "Comes Littoris Saxonici in Britannica."[191] The date of this official and imperial Roman
document is fixed by Gibbon between A.D. 395 and 407. About forty years earlier we have--what
is more to our present purpose--a notice by Ammianus Marcellinus of Saxons being leagued with
the Picts and Scots, and invading the territories south of the Forth, which were held by the
Romans and their conquered allies and dependants--the Britons.

To understand properly the remarks of Ammianus, it is necessary to remember that the two great
divisional military walls which the Romans erected in Britain, stretched, as is well known,
entirely across the island--the most northerly from the Forth to the Clyde, and the second
and stronger from the Tyne to the Solway. The large tract of country lying between these two
military walls formed from time to time a region, the possession of which seems to have been
debated between the Romans and the more northerly tribes; the Romans generally holding the
country up to the northern wall or beyond it, and occasionally being apparently content with
the southern wall as the boundary of their empire.

About the year A.D. 369, the Roman general Theodosius, the father of the future emperor of
the same name, having collected a disciplined army in the south, marched northward from London,
and after a time conquered, or rather reconquered, the debateable region between the two walls;
erected it into a fifth British province, which he named "Valentia," in honour of Valens, the
reigning emperor; and garrisoned and fortified the borders (limites que vigiliis tuebatur et
praetenturis).[192] The notices which the excellent contemporary historian, Ammianus Marcellinus,
has left us of the state of this part of Britain during the ten years of active rebellion and
war preceding this erection of the province of Valentia are certainly very brief, but yet very
interesting. Under the year 360, he states that "In Britain, the stipulated peace being broken,
the incursions of the Scots and Picts, fierce nations, laid waste the grounds lying next to
the boundaries (loca limitibus vicina vastarent)." "These grounds were," says Pinkerton, "surely
those of the future province of Valentia."[193] Four years subsequently, or in 364, Ammianus
again alludes to the Britons being vexed by continued attacks from the same tribes, namely
the Picts and Scots, but he describes these last as now assisted by, or leagued with, the Attacots
and with the Saxons--"Picti, SAXONESQUE, et Scotti, et Attacotti, Britannos aerumnis vexavere
continuis." Again, under the year 368, he alludes to the Scots and Attacots still ravaging
many parts; but now, instead of speaking of them as leagued with the Picts and Saxons, he describes
them as combined with the Picts, divided into two nations, the Dicaledonæ and Vecturiones:--"Eo
tempore Picti in duas gentes divisi, Diacaledonæ et Vecturiones, itidemque Attacotti, bellicosa
hominum natio, et Scotti per diversa vagantes, multa populabuntur."

In both of these two last notices for the years 364 and 368, the invaders are described as
consisting of four different tribes. The Scots and Attacots are mentioned under these appellations
in both. But whilst, in the notice for 364, the two remaining assailants are spoken of as Picts
and Saxons (Picti, Saxonesque), in the notice for 368 the remaining assailants are described
as the "Picts, divided into the Dicaledonæ and Vecturiones." Is it possible that the Saxon
allies were now amalgamated with the Picts, and that they assumed the name of Vecturiones after
their leader Vetta or Vecta? The idea, at all events, of naming nations patronymically from
their leaders or founders was common in ancient times, though the correctness of some of the
instances adduced is more than doubtful. Early Greek and Roman history is full of such alleged
examples; as the Trojans from Tros; the Achæans from Achæus; the Æolians from Æolus; the Peloponnesians
from Pelops; the Dorians from Dorus; the Romans from Romulus, etc. etc.; and so is our own.
The Scots from Ireland are, observes Bede, named to this day Dalreudins (Dalriads), from their
commander Reuda.[194] The Irish called (according to some ancient authorities) the Picts "Cruithne,"
after their alleged first king, Crudne or Cruthne. In a still more apocryphal spirit the word
Britons was averred by some of the older chroniclers to be derived from a leader, Brito--"Britones
Bruto dicti," to use the expression of Nennius(§ 18); Scots from Scota "Scoti ex Scota," in
the words of the (Chronicon Rythmicum), etc.

The practice of eponymes was known also, and followed to some extent among the Teutonic tribes,
both in regard to royal races and whole nations. The kings of Kent were known as Aescingas,
from Aesc, the son of Hengist;[195] those of East Anglia were designated Wuffingas, after Wuffa
("Uffa, a quo reges Orientalium Anglorum Vuffingus appellant"[196]). In some one or other of
his forms, Woden (observes Mr. Kemble) "is the eponymus of tribes and races. Thus, as Geat,
or through Geat, he was the founder of the Geatas; through Gewis, of the Gewissas; through
Scyld, of the Scyldingas, the Norse Skjoldungar; through Brand, of the Brodingas; perhaps,
through Baetwa, of the Batavians."[197] It could therefore scarcely be regarded as very exceptional
at least, if Vetta, one of the grandsons of Woden, should have given, in the same way, his
name to a combined tribe of Saxons and Picts, over whom he had been elected as leader.[198]

That a Saxon force, like that mentioned by Ammianus as being joined to the Picts and Scots
in A.D. 364, was led by an ancestor of Hengist and Horsa is quite in accordance with all that
is known of Saxon laws and customs. As in some other nations, the leaders and kings were generally,
if not always, selected from their royal stock. "Descent" (observes Mr. Kemble) "from Heracles
was to the Spartans what descent from Woden was to the Saxons--the condition of royalty."[199]
All the various Anglo-Saxon royal families that, during the time of the so-called Heptarchy,
reigned in different parts of England certainly claimed this descent from Woden. Hengist and
Horsa probably led the band of their countrymen who invaded Kent, as members of this royal
lineage; and a royal pre-relative or ancestor would have a similar claim and chance of acting
as chief of that Saxon force which joined the Picts and Scots in the preceding century.

If we thus allow, for the sake of argument, that Vetta, the son of Victus, the grandfather
of Hengist and Horsa, is identical with Vetta the son of Victus commemorated in the Cat-stane
inscription, and that he was the leader of those Saxons mentioned by Ammianus that were allied
with the Picts in A.D. 364, we shall find nothing incompatible in that conjecture with the
era of the descent upon Kent of Hengist and Horsa. Bede, confusing apparently the arrival of
Hengist and Horsa with the date of the second instead of the first visit of St. Germanus to
Britain, has placed at too late a date the era of their first appearance in Kent, when he fixes
it in the year 449. The facts mentioned in the earlier editions or copies of Nennius have led
our very learned and accurate colleague Mr. Skene, and others, to transfer forwards twenty
or more years the date at which Hengist and Horsa landed on our shores.[200] But whether Hengist
and Horsa arrived in A.D. 449, or, as seems more probable, about A.D. 428, if we suppose them
in either case to have been born about A.D. 400, we shall find no incongruity, but the reverse,
in the idea that their grandfather Vetta was the leader of a Saxon force thirty-six years previously.
Hengist was in all probability past the middle period of life when he came to the Court of
Vortigern, as he is generally represented as having then a daughter, Rowena, already of a marriageable
age.

On the cause or date of Vetta's death we have of course no historical information; but the
position of his monument renders it next to a certainty that he fell in battle; for, as we
have already seen, the Cat-stane stands, in the words of Lhwyd, "situate on a river side, remote
enough from any church." The barrows and pillar stones placed for miles along that river prove
how frequently it had served as a strategic point and boundary in ancient warfare.[201] The
field in which the Cat-stane itself stands was, as we have already found Dr. Wilson stating,
the site formerly of a large tumulus. In a field, on the opposite bank of the Almond, my friend,
Mr. Hutchison of Caerlowrie, came lately, when prosecuting some draining operations on his
estate, upon numerous stone-kists, which had mutual gables of stone, and were therefore, in
all probability, the graves of those who had perished in battle. Whether the death of Vetta
occurred during the war with Theodosius in A.D. 364, or, as possibly the appellation Vecturiones
tends to indicate, at a later date, we have no ground to determine.

The vulgar name of the monument, the Cat-stane, seems, as I have already hinted, to be a name
synonymous with Battle-stane, and hence, also, so far implies the fall of Vetta in open fight.
Maitland is the first author, as far as I am aware, who suggests this view of the origin of
the word Cat-stane. According to him, "Catstean is a Gaelic and English compound, the former
part thereof (Cat) signifying a battle, and stean or stan a stone; so it is the battlestane,
in commemoration probably of a battle being fought at or near this place, wherein Veta or Victi,
interred here, was slain."[202] I have already quoted Mr. Pennant, as taking the same view
of the origin and character of the name; and Mr. George Chalmers, in his Caledonia, propounds
the same explanation of the word:--"In the parish of Liberton, Edinburghshire, there were (he
observes) several large cairns, wherein were found various stone chests, including urns, which
contained ashes and weapons; some of these cairns which still remain are called the Cat-stanes
or Battle-stanes.[203] Single stones in various parts of North Britain are still known under
the appropriate name of Cat-stanes. The name (he adds) is plainly derived from the British
Cad, or the Scoto-Irish Cath, which signify a battle."[204] But the word under the form Cat
is Welsh or British, as well as Gaelic. Thus, in the Annales Cambriæ, under the year 722, the
battle of Pencon is entered as "Cat-Pencon."[205] In his edition of the old Welsh poem of the
Gododin, Williams (verse 38) prints the battle of Vannau (Manau) as "Cat-Vannau."

The combination of the Celtic word "Cat" with the Saxon word "stane" may appear at first as
an objection against the preceding idea of the origin and signification of the term Cat-stane.
But many of our local names show a similar compound origin in Celtic and Saxon. In the immediate
neighbourhood, for example, of the Cat-stane,[206] we have instances of a similar Celtic and
Saxon amalgamation in the words Gogar-burn, Lenny-bridge, Craigie-hill, etc. One of the oldest
known specimens of this kind of verbal alloy, is alluded to above a thousand years ago by Bede,[207]
in reference to a locality not above fourteen or fifteen miles west from the Cat-stane. For,
in his famous sentence regarding the termination of the walls of Antoninus on the Forth, he
states that the Picts called this eastern "head of the wall" Pean-fahel, but the Angles called
it Pennel-tun. To a contracted variety of this Pictish word signifying head of the wall, or
to its Welsh form Pengual, they added the Saxon word "town," probably to designate the "villa,"
which, according to an early addition to Nennius, was placed there. "Pengaaul, quæ villa Scottice
Cenail [Kinneil], Anglice verò Peneltun dicitur."[208]

The palæographic peculiarities of the inscription sufficiently bear out the idea of the monument
being of the date or era which I have ventured to assign to it--a point the weight and importance
of which it is unnecessary to insist upon. "The inscription," says Lhwyd, "is in the barbarous
characters of the fourth and fifth centuries." Professor Westwood, who is perhaps our highest
authority on such a question, states to me that he is of the same opinion as Lhwyd as to the
age of the lettering in the Cat-stane legend.

To some minds it may occur as a seeming difficulty that the legend or inscription is in the
Latin language, though the leader commemorated is Saxon. But this forms no kind of valid objection.
The fact is, that all the early Romano-British inscriptions as yet found in Great Britain,
are, as far as they have been discovered and deciphered, in Latin. And it is not more strange
that a Saxon in the Lothians should be recorded in Latin, and not in Saxon or Keltic, than
that the numerous Welshmen and others recorded on the early Welsh inscribed stones should be
recorded in Latin and not in the Cymric tongue.

Doubtless, the Romanised Britons and the foreign colonists settled among them were, with their
descendants, more or less acquainted with Latin in both its spoken and written forms. As early
as the second year of his march northward for the conquest of this more distant part of Britain,
or A.D. 79, Agricola, as Tacitus takes special care to inform us, took all possible means to
introduce, for the purposes of conquest and civilisation, a knowledge of the Roman language
and of the liberal arts among the barbarian tribes whom he went to subdue.[209] The same policy
was no doubt continued to a greater or less extent during the whole era of the Roman dominion
here as elsewhere; so that there is no wonder that such arts as lapidary writing, and the composition
of brief Latin inscriptions, should have been known to and transmitted to the native Britons.
There was, however, another class of inhabitants, besides these native Britons, who were, as
we know from the altars and stone monuments which they have left, sufficiently learned in the
formation and cutting of inscriptions in Latin,--a language which was then, and for some centuries
subsequently, the only language used in this country, either in lapidary or other forms of
writing. The military legions and cohorts which the Roman emperors employed to keep Britain
under due subjection, obtained, under the usual conditions, grants of lands in the country,
married, and became betimes fixed inhabitants. When speaking of the veteran soldiers of Rome
settling down at last as permanent proprietors of land in Britain--as in other Roman colonies,--Sir
Francis Palgrave remarks, "Upwards of forty of these barbarian legions, some of Teutonic origin,
and others Moors, Dalmatians, and Thracians, whose forefathers had been transplanted from the
remotest parts of the empire, obtained their domicile in various parts of our island, though
principally upon the northern and eastern coasts, and in the neighbourhood of the Roman walls."[210]
Such colonists undoubtedly possessed among their ranks, and were capable of transmitting to
their descendants, a sufficient knowledge of the Latin tongue, and a sufficient amount of art,
to form and cut such stone inscriptions as we have been considering; and perhaps I may add,
that in such a mixed population, the Teutonic elements[211] in particular, would, towards the
decline of the Roman dominion and power, not perhaps be averse to find and follow a leader,
like Vetta, belonging to the royal stock of Woden; nor would they likely fail to pay all due
respect, by the raising of a monument or otherwise, to the memory of a chief of such an illustrious
race, if he fell amongst them in battle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Besides, a brief incidental remark in Bede's History proves that the erection of a monument
like the Cat-stane, to record the resting-place of the early Saxon chiefs, was not unknown.
For, after telling us that Horsa was slain in battle by the Britons, Bede adds that "this Saxon
leader was buried in the eastern parts of Kent, where a monument bearing his name is still
in existence"[212] (hactenus in orientalibus Cantiæ partibus monumentum habet suo nomine insigne).[213]
The great durability of the stone forming Vetta's monument has preserved it to the present
day; while the more perishable material of which Horsa's was constructed has made it a less
faithful record of that chief, though it was still in Bede's time, or in the eighth century,
"suo nomine insigne."[214]

       *       *       *       *       *

The chief points of evidence which I have attempted to adduce in favour of the idea that the
Cat-stane commemorates the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa may be summed up as follows:--

1. The surname of VETTA upon the Cat-stane is the name of the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa,
as given by our oldest genealogists.

2. The same historical authorities all describe Vetta as the son of Victa; and the person recorded
on the Cat-stane is spoken of in the same distinctive terms--"VETTA F(ILIUS) VICTI."

3. Vetta is not a common ancient Saxon name, and it is highly improbable that there existed
in ancient times two historical Vettas, the sons of two Victas.

4. Two generations before Hengist and Horsa arrived in England, a Saxon host--as told by Ammianus--was
leagued with the other races of modern Scotland (the Picts, Scots, and Attacots), in fighting
with a Roman army under Theodosius.

5. These Saxon allies were very probably under a leader who claimed royal descent from Woden,
and consequently under an ancestor or pre-relative of Hengist and Horsa.

6. The battle-ground between the two armies was, in part at least, the district placed between
the two Roman walls, and consequently included the tract in which the Cat-stane is placed;
this district being erected by Theodosius, after its subjection, into a fifth Roman province.

7. The palæographic characters of the inscription accord with the idea that it was cut about
the end of the fourth century.

8. The Latin is the only language[215] known to have been used in British inscriptions and
other writings in these early times by the Romanised Britons and the foreign colonists and
conquerors of the island.

9. The occasional erection of monuments to Saxon leaders is proved by the fact mentioned by
Bede, that in his time, or in the eighth century, there stood in Kent a monument commemorating
the death of Horsa.[216]

       *       *       *       *       *

If, then, as these reasons tend at least to render probable, the Cat-stane be the tombstone
of Vetta, the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa, this venerable monolith is not only interesting
as one of our most ancient national historic monuments, but it corroborates the floating accounts
of the early presence of the Saxons upon our coast; it presents to us the two earliest individual
Saxon names known in British history; it confirms, so far as it goes, the accuracy of the genealogy
of the ancestors of Hengist and Horsa, as recorded by Bede and our early chroniclers; while
at the same time it forms in itself a connecting link, as it were, between the two great invasions
of our island by the Roman and Saxon--marking as it does the era of the final declinature of
the Roman dominion among us, and the first dawn and commencement of that Saxon interference
and sway in the affairs of Britain, which was destined to give to England a race of new kings
and new inhabitants, new laws, and a new language.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 128: The farm is called "Briggs, or Colstane" (Catstane), in a plan belonging to
Mr. Hutchison, of his estate of Caerlowrie, drawn up in 1797. In this plan the bridge (brigg)
over the Almond, at the boathouse, is laid down. But in another older plan which Mr. H. has
of the property, dated 1748, there is no bridge, and in its stead there is a representation
of the ferry-boat crossing the river.]

[Footnote 129: In this strategic angular fork or tongue of ground, formed by the confluence
of these two rivers, Queen Mary and her suite were, according to Mr. Robert Chambers, caught
when she was carried off by Bothwell on the 24th of April 1567. (See his interesting remarks
"On the Locality of the Abduction of Queen Mary" in the Proceedings of the Society of Scottish
Antiquaries, vol. ii. p. 331.)]

[Footnote 130: The comparative rapidity or slowness with which bones are decomposed and disappear
in different soils, is sometimes a question of importance to the antiquary. We all know that
they preserve for many long centuries in dry soils and dry positions. In moist ground, such
as that on which the Cat-stane stands, they melt away far more speedily. On another part of
Mrs. Ramsay's property, namely in the policy, and within two hundred yards of the mansion-house
of Barnton, I opened, several years ago, with Mr. Morritt of Rokeby, the grave of a woman who
had died--as the tombstone on the spot told us--during the last Scottish plague in the year
1648. The only remains of sepulture which we found were some fragments of the wooden coffin,
and the enamel crowns of a few teeth. All other parts of the body and skeleton had entirely
disappeared. The chemical qualities of the ground, and consequently of its water, will of course
modify the rapidity of such results.]

[Footnote 131: Prehistoric Annals of Scotland, p. 96.]

[Footnote 132: Statistical Account of Scotland, collected by Sir John Sinclair, vol. x. pp.
68, 75.]

[Footnote 133: The Scots Magazine for 1780, p. 697. See also Smellie's Account of the Institution
and Progress of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (1782), p. 8.]

[Footnote 134: Rowlands' Mona Antiqua Restaurata, second edition, p. 313. The inscription is
printed in italics by Rowland. I have printed this and some of the following readings in small
Roman capitals, in order to assimilate them all the more with each other.]

[Footnote 135: Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxii. p. 790.]

[Footnote 136: Historical Inquiries concerning the Roman Monuments and Antiquities in Scotland,
p. 50.]

[Footnote 137: The History of Edinburgh, p. 508.]

[Footnote 138: Tour in Scotland in 1772, Part ii. p. 237. When describing his ride from Kirkliston
to Edinburgh, he observes: "On the right hand, at a small distance from our road are some rude
stones. On one called the Cat-stean, a compound of Celtic and Saxon, signifying the Stone of
Battle, is this inscription: IN HOC TUMULO JACET VETA F. VICTI; supposed in memory of a person
slain there."]

[Footnote 139: Camden's Britannia, edited by Richard Gough, vol. iii. p. 317. Mr. Gough cites
also as Mr. Wilkie's reading, "IN HOC TUM, JAC. CONSTANTIE VICT."]

[Footnote 140: In the VETTA of this line the cross bar in A is wanting, from the stone between
the upright bars being chipped or weathered out.]

[Footnote 141: Archæologia Cambrensis (for 1848), vol. iii. p. 107.]

[Footnote 142: See his "Chronicon," in the Monumenta Historica Britannica, pp. 502 and 505.
Nouns, and names ending thus in "r," preceded by a vowel, were often written without the penultimate
vowel, particularly in the Scandinavian branches of the Teutonic language; as Baldr for Balder
and Baldur; Folkvangr for Folkvangar; Surtr for Surtur and Surtar, etc. (See the Glossary to
the prose Edda in Bohn's edition of Mallet's Northern Antiquities, and Kemble's Saxons in England,
pp. 346, 363, etc.) For genealogical lists full of proper names ending in "r" with the elision
of the preceding vowel, see the long tables of Scandinavian and Orcadian pedigrees printed
at the end of the work on the pre-Columbian discovery of America, Antiquitates Americanæ, etc.,
which was published at Copenhagen in 1837 by the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries. In
the first table of genealogies giving the pedigree of Thorfinn, the son of Sigurd, of the Orkney
dynasty, etc., we have, among other names--Olafr, Grismr, Ingjaldr, Oleifr (Rex Dublini); Thorsteinn
Raudr (partis Scotiæ Rex); Dungadr (Earl of Katanesi); Arfidr, Havadr, Thorfinnr, etc. (Earls
of Orkney); etc. etc.]

[Footnote 143: Inscriptions Chrétiennes de la Gaule, anterieures au VIII. Siècle. See Plates
Nos. 10, 11, 15, 16, 24, 25, etc.]

[Footnote 144: The name LIBERALIS is probably the Latinised form of a British surname having
the same meaning. Rydderch, King of Strathclyde, in the latter part of the sixth century, and
the personal friend of Kentigern and Columba, was sometimes, from his munificence, termed Rydderch
Hael, or, in its Latinised form, Rydderch Liberalis. The first lines of the Yarrow inscription
appear to me to read as far as they are decipherable, as follows:--

   HIC MEMOR IACIT F
   LOIN:::NI:::: HIC
   PE::M
   DVMNOGENL

The true character of the G in the fourth line was first pointed out by Dr. Smith. It is of
the same form as the G in the famous SAGRAMANVS stone, etc.]

[Footnote 145: The exception is the letter D in DVO, which verges to the uncial form.]

[Footnote 146: In the inscription all the words are, as usual, run together, with the exception
of the Jacit and Mulier, which are separated from each other by the oblique linear point. See
a plate of the inscription in the Archæologia Cambrensis for 1855, p. 153.]

[Footnote 147: Caledonia, vol. ii. p. 844.]

[Footnote 148: New Statistical Account of Scotland, vol i. p. 138. For the same supposed corruption
of the name Constantine into Cat-stane, see also Fullarton's Gazetteer of Scotland, vol. ii.
p. 182.]

[Footnote 149: The brief history of Kenneth, his parentage, reign, and mode of death, as given
in one of the earliest Chronicles of the Kings of Scotland, quoted by Father Innes (p. 802),
contains in its few lines a very condensed and yet powerful story of deep maternal affection
and fierce female revenge. The whole entry is as follows:--"Kinath Mac-Malcolm 24, an. et 2.
mens. Interfectus in Fotherkern a suis per perfidium Finellæ filiæ Cunechat comitis de Angus;
cujus Finellæ filium unicum prædictus Kinath interfecit apud Dunsinoen." The clumsy additions
of some later historians only spoil and mar the original simplicity and force of this "three-volume"
historical romance.]

[Footnote 150: Tom. i. p. 219, of Goodall's edition.]

[Footnote 151: De Rebus Gestis Scotorum, chap. lxxxi. p. 200.]

[Footnote 152: Joannis Forduni Scotichronicon, tom. i. p. 219.]

[Footnote 153: Chronicon de Mailros, p. 226 (Bannatyne Club edition).]

[Footnote 154: Wyntown's Orygynale Cronykil of Scotland, vol. i. p. 183.]

[Footnote 155: In the Scotichronicon instead of "In Tegalere," the third of these lines commences
"Inregale regens," etc.; and it is noted that in the "Liber Dumblain" the line begins "Indegale,"
etc.]

[Footnote 156: Buchanan, in his Rerum Scoticorum Historia, gives the locality as "ad Almonis
amnis ostium." (Lib. vi. c. 81.)]

[Footnote 157: Scotorum Historiæ, p. 235 of Paris edition of 1574. Bellenden and Stewart, in
their translations of Boece's History both place the fight at "Crawmond."]

[Footnote 158: This document, entitled Nomina Regum Scottorum et Pictorum and published by
Father Innes in his Critical Essay, p. 797, etc., is described by that esteemed and cautious
author as a document the very fact of the registration of which among the records and charters
of the ancient church of St. Andrews "is a full proof of its being held authentick at the time
it was written, that is about A.D. 1251." (P. 607.)]

[Footnote 159: The orthography of the copy of this Chronicle, as given by Innes, is very inaccurate,
and the omission of the two initial letters of "inver," not very extraordinary in the word
Rathveramoen. Apparently the same word Rathinveramon occurs previously in the same Chronicle,
when Donald MacAlpin, the second king of the combined Picts and Scots, is entered as having
died "in Raith in Veramont" (p. 801). In another of the old Chronicles published by Innes,
this king is said to have died in his palace at "Belachoir" (p. 783). If, as some historians
believe, the Lothians were not annexed to Scotland before his death in A.D. 859, by Kenneth
the brother of Donald, and did not become a part of the Scottish kingdom till the time of Indulf
(about A.D. 954), or even later, then it is probable that the site of King Donald's death in
A.D. 863, at Rathinveramon, was on the Almond in Perthshire, within his own territories.]

[Footnote 160: I am only aware of one very marked exception to this general law Malcolm Canmore
is known to have been killed near Alnwick, when attacking its castle. Alnwick is situated on
the Alne, about five or six miles above the village of Alnmouth, the ancient Twyford, on the
Alne, of Bede, on the mount near which St. Cuthbert was installed as a bishop. But in the ancient
Chronicle from the Register of St. Andrews, King Malcolm is entered (see Innes, p. 803) as
"interfectus in Inneraldan." The error has more likely originated in a want of proper local
knowledge on the part of the chronicler than in so unusual a use of the Celtic word "inver;"
for, according to all analogies, while the term is applicable to Alnmouth, it is not at all
applicable to Alnwick.]

[Footnote 161: Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Anglorum. (Stevenson's Edit. p. 35.)]

[Footnote 162: De Bello Gothico, lib. iv. c. 20. See other authorities in Turner's Anglo-Saxons,
vol. i. p. 182.]

[Footnote 163: Emmii Rerum Friescarum Historia, p. 41.]

[Footnote 164: History of England, vol. i.--Anglo-Saxon Period, pp. 33, 34.]

[Footnote 165: The Ethnology of the British Islands, p. 259. At p. 240, Dr. Latham "A native
tradition makes Hengist a Frisian." Dr. Bosworth cites (see his Origin of the English, etc.,
Language and Nation, p. 52) Maerlant in his Chronicle as doubtful whether to call Hengist a
Frisian or a Saxon.]

[Footnote 166: See his Origin of the English, German, and Scandinavian Languages, p. 54. Some
modern authorities have thought it philosophical to object to the whole story of Hengist and
Horsa, on the alleged ground that these names are "equine" in their original meaning--"henges"
and "hors" signifying stallion and horse in the old Saxon tongue. If the principles of historic
criticism had no stronger reasons for clearing the story of the first Saxon settlement in Kent
of its romantic and apocryphal superfluities, this argument would serve us badly. For some
future American historian might, on a similar hypercritical ground, argue against the probability
of Columbus, a Genoese, having discovered America, and carried thither (to use the language
of his son Ferdinand) "the olive branch and oil of baptism across the ocean,"--of Drake and
Hawkins having, in Queen Elizabeth's time, explored the West Indies, and sailed round the southernmost
point of America,--of General Wolfe having taken Quebec,--or Lord Lyons being English ambassador
to the United States in the eventful year 1860, on the ground that Colombo is actually the
name of a dove in Italian, Drake and Hawkins only the appellations of birds, and Wolfe and
Lyons the English names for two wild beasts.]

[Footnote 167: See Thorpe's edition of Beowulf and other Anglo-Saxon Poems, p. 219, line 45.]

[Footnote 168: Monumenta Historica, p. 623.]

[Footnote 169: Ib., p. 659.]

[Footnote 170: Ib., p. 544.]

[Footnote 171: Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Anglorum, lib. i. cap. 15, p. 34 of Mr. Stevenson's
edition. In some editions of Bede's History (as in Dr. Giles' Translation, for example) the
name of Vitta is carelessly omitted, as a word apparently of no moment. Such a discussion as
the present shows how wrong it is to tamper with the texts of such old authors.]

[Footnote 172: See these names in page 414 of Stevenson's edition of the Historia Ecclesiastica.]

[Footnote 173: Monumenta Historica Britt., preface, p. 82.]

[Footnote 174: "Ethelwerdi Chronicorum," lib. ii. c. 2, in Monumenta Historica, p. 505.]

[Footnote 175: Ibid. lib. i. p. 502 of Monumenta Historica.]

[Footnote 176: The historical personage and leader Woden is represented in all these genealogies
as having lived four generations, or from 100 to 150 years earlier than the age of Hengist
and Horsa.]

[Footnote 177: See p. 24 of Mr. Stevenson's edition of Nennii Historia Britonum, printed for
the English Historical Society. In the Gaelic translation of the Historia Britonum, known as
the Irish Nennius, the name Wetta or Guitta is spelled in various copies as "Guigte" and "Guite."
The last form irresistibly suggests the Urbs Guidi of Bede, situated in the Firth of Forth.
Might not he have thus written the Keltic or Pictish form of the name of a city or stronghold
founded by Vitta or Vecta; and does this afford any clue to the fact, that the waters of the
Forth are spoken of as the Sea of Guidi by Angus the Culdee, and as the Mare Fresicum by Nennius,
while its shores are the Frisicum Litus of Joceline? In the text I have noted the transformation
of the analogous Latin name of the Isle of Wight, "Vecta," into "Guith," by Nennius. The "urbs
Guidi" of Bede is described by him as placed in the middle of the Firth of Forth, "in medio
sui." Its most probable site is, as I have elsewhere (see Proceedings of Society of Antiquaries
of Scotland, vol. ii. pp. 254, 255) endeavoured to show, Inch Keith; and, phonetically, the
term "Keith" is certainly not a great variation from "Guith" or "Guidi." At page 7 of Stevenson's
edition of Nennius, the Isle of Wight, the old "Insula Vecta" of the Roman authors, is written
"Inis Gueith"--a term too evidently analogous to "Inch Keith" to require any comment.]

[Footnote 178: See Irish Nennius, p. 77; Saxon Chronicle, under year 855, etc.]

[Footnote 179: Northern Antiquities, Bohn's edition, p. 71. Sigge is generally held as the
name of one of the sons of Woden.]

[Footnote 180: Gest. I. sec. 5, I. 11.]

[Footnote 181: Monumenta Historica Britannica, p. 707.]

[Footnote 182: See his "Chronicon ex Chronicis," in the Monumenta Historica, pp. 523 and 627.]

[Footnote 183: See preceding note (1), p. 168. In answer to the vague objection that the alleged
leaders were two brothers, Mr. Thorpe observes that the circumstance of two brothers being
joint-kings or leaders, bearing, like Hengist and Horsa, alliterative names, is far from unheard
of in the annals of the north; and as instances (he adds) may be cited, Ragnar, Inver, Ulba,
and two kings in Rumedal--viz. Haerlang and Hrollang.--See his Translation of Lappenberg's
History of the Anglo-Saxons, vol. i. pp. 78 and 275.]

[Footnote 184: See Mr. Stevenson's Introduction, p. xxv., to the Historical Society's edition
of Bede's Historia Ecclesiastica; and also Mr. Hardy in the Preface, p. 71, to the Monumenta
Historica Britannica.]

[Footnote 185: The great importance attached to genealogical descent lasted much longer than
the Saxon era itself. Thus the author of the latest Life (1860) of Edward I., when speaking
of the birth of that monarch at London in 1239, observes (p. 8), "The kind of feeling which
was excited by the birth of an English prince in the English metropolis, and by the king's
evident desire to connect the young heir to the throne with his Saxon ancestors, is shown in
the Worcester Chronicle of that date. The fact is thus significantly described:--

'On the 14th day of the calends of July, Eleanor, Queen of England gave birth to her eldest
son Edward; whose father was Henry; whose father was John; whose father was Henry; whose mother
was Matilda the Empress; whose mother was Matilda, Queen of England; whose mother was Margaret,
Queen of Scotland; whose father was Edward; whose father was Edmund Ironside; who was the son
of Ethelred; who was the son of Edgar; who was the son of Edmund; who was the son of Edward
the elder; who was the son of Alfred.'"--(The Greatest of the Plantagenets, pp. 8 and 9.)

Here we have eleven genealogical ascents appealed to from Edward to Alfred. The thirteen or
fourteen ascents again from Alfred to Cerdic, the first Anglo-Saxon king of Wessex, are as
fixed and determined as the eleven from Alfred to Edward. (See them quoted by Florence, Asser,
etc.) But the power of reckoning the lineage of Cerdic up through the intervening nine alleged
ascents to Woden, was indispensable to form and to maintain Cerdic's claim to royalty, and
was probably preserved with as great, if not greater care when written records were so defective
and wanting.]

[Footnote 186: The Saxons in England, vol. i. p. 11.]

[Footnote 187: See the inscription, etc., in Whittaker's Manchester, vol. i. p. 160.]

[Footnote 188: On these Frisian cohorts, and consequently also Frisian colonists, in England,
see the learned Memoir on the Roman Garrison at Manchester, by my friend Dr. Black. (Manchester,
1849.)]

[Footnote 189: Buckman and Newmarch's work on Ancient Corinium, p. 114.]

[Footnote 190: Palgrave's Anglo-Saxons, p. 24.]

[Footnote 191: For fuller evidence on this point, see the remarks by Mr. Kemble in his Saxons
in England, vol. i. p. 13, etc.]

[Footnote 192: Ammiani Marcellini Historiæ, lib. xxviii. c. 1. The poet Claudian, perhaps with
the full liberty of a poet, sings of Theodosius' forces in this war having pursued the Saxons
to the very Orkneys:--

   ----maduerunt Saxone fuso
     Orcades.]

[Footnote 193: Inquiry into the History of Scotland, vol. i. p. 116. See also Gibbon's Decline
and Fall, chap. xxv.]

[Footnote 194: Histor. Eccles., lib. i. c. 1, § 8.]

[Footnote 195: Bede's Hist. Eccles., lib. ii. cap. v. (Oisc, a quo reges Cantuariorum solent
Oiscingas cognominare.)]

[Footnote 196: Ibid., lib. ii. cap. xv.]

[Footnote 197: The Saxons in England, vol. i. p. 341.]

[Footnote 198: In his account of the kings of the Picts, Mr. Pinkerton (Inquiry into History
of Scotland, vol. i. p. 293) calculates that the sovereign "Wradech Vechla" of the Chronicon
Pictorum reigned about A.D. 380. In support of his own philological views, Mr. Pinkerton alters
the name of this Pictish king from "Wradech Vechla" to "Wradech Vechta." There is not, however,
I believe, any real foundation whatever for this last reading, interesting as it might be,
in our present inquiry, if true.]

[Footnote 199: The Saxons in England, vol. i. p. 149.]

[Footnote 200: Mr. Hardy, in the preface (p. 114, etc.) to the Monumenta Historica Britannica,
maintains also, at much length, that the advent and reception of the Saxons by Vortigern was
in A.D. 428, and not 449. He contests for an earlier Saxon invasion of Britain in A.D. 374.
See also Lappenberg in his History of England under the Anglo-Saxon Kings, vol. i. pp. 62, 63.]

[Footnote 201: Two miles higher up the river than the Cat-stane, four large monoliths still
stand near Newbridge. They are much taller than the Cat-stane, but contain no marks or letters
on their surfaces. Three of them are placed around a large barrow.]

[Footnote 202: History of Edinburgh, p. 509.]

[Footnote 203: Transactions of the Society of Scottish Antiquaries, vol. i. p. 308. Maitland,
in his History of Edinburgh, p. 307, calls these cairns the "Cat-heaps."]

[Footnote 204: Caledonia, vol. i. p. 86. The only references, however, which Mr. Chalmers gives
to a "single stone" in Scotland, bearing the name of Cat-stane, all relate to this monument
in Kirkliston parish:--"The tallest and most striking ancient monolith in the vicinity of Edinburgh
is a massive unhewn flat obelisk, standing about ten feet high, in the parish of Colinton."
Maitland (History of Edinburgh, p. 507), and Mr. Whyte (Trans. of Scottish Antiquaries, vol.
i. p. 308) designate this monument the Caiy-stone. "Whether this (says Maitland) be a corruption
of the Catstean I know not." The tall monolith is in the neighbourhood of the cairns called
the Cat-stanes or Cat-heaps (see preceding note). Professor Walker, in an elaborate Statistical
Account of the Parish of Colinton, published in 1808, in his Essays on Natural History describes
the Cat-heaps or cairns as having been each found, when removed, to cover a coffin made of
hewn stones. In the coffins were found mouldering human bones and fragments of old arms, including
two bronze spear-heads. "When the turnpike road which passes near the above cairns was formed,
for more than a mile the remains of dead bodies were everywhere thrown up." Most of them had
been interred in stone coffins made of coarse slabs. To use the words of Professor Walker,
"Not far from the three cairns is the so called 'Caiy-stone' of Maitland and Whyte. It has
always, however (he maintains), been known among the people of the country by the name of the
Ket-stane." It is of whinstone, and "appears not to have had the chisel, or any inscription
upon it." "The craig (he adds) or steep rocky mountain which forms the northern extremity of
the Pentland Hills, and makes a conspicuous figure at Edinburgh, hangs over this field of battle.
It is called Caer-Ketan Craig. This name appears to be derived from the Ket-stane above described,
and the fortified camp adjacent, which, in the old British, was termed a Caer." (P. 611.)]

[Footnote 205: See "Annales Cambriæ," in the Monumenta Hist. Britannica, p. 833.]

[Footnote 206: In Maitland's time (1753), there was a farm-house termed "Catstean," standing
near the monument we are describing. And up to the beginning of the present century the property
or farm on the opposite side of the Almond, above Caerlowrie, was designated by a name, having
apparently the Celtic "battle" noun as a prefix in its composition--viz., Cat-elbock. This
fine old Celtic name has latterly been changed for the degenerate and unmeaning term Almond-hill.]

[Footnote 207: Historia Ecclesiast., lib. i. c. xii. "Sermone Pictorum Peanfahel, lingua autem
Anglorum Penneltun appellatur."]

[Footnote 208: Historia Britonum, c. xix. At one time I fancied it possible that the mutilated
and enigmatical remains of ancient Welsh poetry furnished us with a name for the Cat-stane
older still than that appellation itself. Among the fragments of old Welsh historical poems
ascribed to Taliesin, one of the best known is that on the battle of Gwen-Ystrad. In this composition
the poet describes, from professedly personal observation, the feats at the above battle of
the army of his friend and great patron, Urien, King of Rheged, who was subsequently killed
at the siege of Medcaut, or Lindisfarne, about A.D. 572. Villemarque places the battle of Gwen-Ystrad
between A.D. 547 and A.D. 560.

The British kingdom of Rheged, over which Urien ruled, is by some authorities considered as
the old British or Welsh kingdom of Cumbria, or Cumberland; but, according to others, it must
have been situated further northwards. In the poem of the battle of Gwen-Ystrad (see the Myvyrian
Archæology, vol. i. p. 53), Urien defeats the enemy--apparently the Saxons or Angles--under
Ida, King of Bernicia. In one line near the end of the poem, Taliesin describes Urien as attacking
his foes "by the white stone of Galysten:"

   "Pan amwyth ai alon yn Llech wen Galysten."

The word "Galysten," when separated into such probable original components as "Gal" and "lysten,"
is remarkable, from the latter part of the appellation, "lysten," corresponding with the name,
"Liston," of the old barony or parish in which the Cat-stane stands; the prefix Kirk (Kirk-liston)
being, as is well known, a comparatively modern addition. The word "Gal" is a common term,
in compound Keltic words, for "stranger," or "foreigner." In the Gaelic branch of the Keltic,
"lioston" signifies, according to Sir James Foulis, "an inclosure on the side of a river."
(See Mr. Muckarsie on the origin of the name of Kirkliston, in the Statistical Account of Scotland,
vol. x. p. 68.) The Highland Society's Gaelic Dictionary gives "liostean" as a lodging, tent,
or booth. In the Cymric, "lystyn" signifies, according to Dr. Owen Pughe, "a recess, or lodgment."
(See his Welsh Dictionary, sub voce.) The compound word Gal-lysten would perhaps not be thus
overstrained, if it were held as possibly originating in the meaning, "the lodgment, inclosure,
or resting-place of the foreigner;" and the line quoted would, under such an idea, not inaptly
apply to the grave-stone of such a foreign leader as Vetta. Urien's forces are described in
the first line of the poem of the battle of Gwen-Ystrad, as "the men of Cattraeth, who set
out with the dawn." Cattraeth is now believed by eminent archæologists to be a locality situated
at the eastern end of Antonine's wall, on the Firth of Forth--Callander, Carriden, or more
probably the castle hill at Blackness, which contains various remains of ancient structures.
Urien's foes at the battle of Gwen-Ystrad were apparently the Angles or Saxons of Bernicia--this
last term of Bernicia, with its capital at Bamborough, including at that time the district
of modern Northumberland, and probably also Berwickshire and part of the Lothians. An army
marching from Cattraeth or the eastern end of Antonine's Wall, to meet such an army, would,
if it took the shortest or coast line, pass, after two or three hours' march, very near the
site of the Cat-stane. A ford and a fort are alluded to in the poem. The neighbouring Almond
has plenty of fords; and on its banks the name of two forts or "caers" are still left--viz.
Caerlowrie (Caer-l-Urien?) and Caer Almond, one directly opposite the Cat-stane, the other
three miles below it. But no modern name remains near the Cat-stane to identify the name of
"the fair or white strath." "Lenny"--the name of the immediately adjoining barony on the banks
of the Almond, or in its "strath" or "dale"--presents insurmountable philological difficulties
to its identification with Gwen; the L and G, or GW not being interchangeable. The valley of
Strath-Broc (Broxburn)--the seat in the twelfth century of Freskyn of Strath-Broc, and consequently
the cradle of the noble house of Sutherland--runs into the valley of the Almond about two miles
above the Cat-stane. In this, as in other Welsh and Gaelic names, the word Strath is a prefix
to the name of the adjoining river. In the word "Gwen-Ystrad," the word Strath is, on the contrary,
in the unusual position of an affix; showing that the appellation is descriptive of the beauty
or fairness of the strath which it designates. The valley or dale of the Almond, and the rich
tract of fertile country stretching for miles to the south-west of the Cat-stane, certainly
well merit such a designation as "fair" or "beautiful" valley--"Gwen-Ystrad;" but we have not
the slightest evidence whatever that such a name was ever applied to this tract. In his learned
edition of Les Bardes Bretons, Poemes du vi^e Siècle, the Viscount Villemarque, in the note
which he has appended to Taliesin's poem of the battle of Gwen-Ystrad, suggests (page 412)
that this term exists in a modern form under the name of Queen's-strad, or Queen's-ferry--a
locality within three miles of the Cat-stane. But it is certain that the name of Queens-ferry,
applied to the well-known passage across the Forth, is of the far later date of Queen Margaret,
the wife of Malcolm Canmore. Numerous manors and localities in the Lothians and around Kirkliston,
end in the Saxon affix "ton," or town--a circumstance rendering it probable that Lis-ton had
possibly a similar origin. And further, against the idea of the appellation of "the white stone
of Galysten" being applicable to the Cat-stane, is the fact that it is, as I have already stated,
a block of greenstone basalt; and the light tint which it presents, when viewed at a distance
in strong sunlight--owing to its surface being covered with whitish lichen--is scarcely sufficient
to have warranted a poet--indulging in the utmost poetical license--to have sung of it as "the
white stone." After all, however, the adjective "wen," or "gwenn," as Villemarque writes it,
may signify "fair" or "beautiful" when applied to the stone, just as it probably does when
applied to the strath which was the seat of the battle--"Gwenn Ystrad."

Winchburgh, the name of the second largest village in the parish of Kirkliston, and a station
on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, is perhaps worthy of note, from its being placed in the
same district as the stone of Vetta, the son of Victa, and from the appellation possibly signifying
originally, according to Mr. Kemble (our highest authority in such a question), the burgh of
Woden, or Wodensburgh. (See his History of the Anglo-Saxons, vol. i. p. 346.)]

[Footnote 209: Vita Agricolæ, xliv. 2.]

[Footnote 210: History of England--Anglo-Saxon Period, p. 20.]

[Footnote 211: On the probable great extent of the Teutonic or German element of population
in Great Britain as early as about A.D. 400; see Mr. Wright, in his excellent and interesting
work The Celt, the Roman, and the Saxon, p. 385.]

[Footnote 212: Historia Ecclesiastica, lib. i. c. 1; or Dr. Giles' Translation, in Bohn's edition,
p. 5.]

[Footnote 213: Dr. Giles' Translation, in Bohn's edition, p. 24.]

[Footnote 214: Historia Ecclesiastical, lib. i. c. 15.]

[Footnote 215: Perhaps it is right to point out, as exceptions to this general observation,
a very few Greek inscriptions to Astarte, Hercules, Esculapius, etc., left in Britain by the
Roman soldiers and colonists.]

[Footnote 216: On the supposed site, etc. of this monument to Horsa, in Kent, see Mr. Colebrook's
paper in Archæologia, vol. ii. p. 167; and Halsted's Kent, vol. ii. p. 177. In 1631, Weever,
in his Ancient Funeral Monuments, p. 317, acknowledges that "stormes and time have devoured
Horsa's monument." In 1659 Phillpot, when describing the cromlech called Kits Coty House--the
alleged tomb of Catigern--speaks of Horsa's tomb as utterly extinguished "by storms and tempests
under the conduct of time."]

ON SOME SCOTTISH MAGICAL CHARM-STONES, OR CURING-STONES.

Throughout all past time, credulity and superstition have constantly and strongly competed
with the art of medicine. There is no doubt, according to Pliny, that the magical art began
in Persia, that it originated in medicine, and that it insinuated itself first amongst mankind
under the plausible guise of promoting health.[217] In proof of the antiquity of the belief,
this great Roman encyclopædist cites Eudoxus, Aristotle, and Hermippus, as averring that magical
arts were used thousands of years before the time of the Trojan war.

Assuredly, in ancient times, faith in the effects of magical charms, amulets, talismans, etc.,
seems to have prevailed among all those ancient races of whom history has left any adequate
account. In modern times a belief in their efficiency and power is still extensively entertained
amongst most of the nations of Asia and Africa. In some European kingdoms, also, as in Turkey,
Italy, and Spain, belief in them still exists to a marked extent. In our own country, the magical
practices and superstitions of the older and darker ages persist only as forms and varieties,
so to speak, of archæological relics,--for they remain at the present day in comparatively
a very sparse and limited degree. They are now chiefly to be found among the uneducated, and
in outlying districts of the kingdom. But still, some practices, which primarily sprung up
in a belief in magic, are carried on, even by the middle and higher classes of society, as
diligently as they were thousands of years ago, and without their magical origin being dreamed
of by those who follow them. The coral is often yet suspended as an ornament around the neck
of the Scottish child, without the potent and protective magical and medicinal qualities long
ago attached to it by Dioscorides and Pliny being thought of by those who place it there. Is
not the egg, after being emptied of its edible contents, still, in many hands, as assiduously
pierced by the spoon of the eater as if he had weighing upon his mind the strong superstition
of the ancient Roman, that--if he omitted to perforate the empty shell--he incurred the risk
of becoming spell-bound, etc.? Marriages seem at the present day as much dreaded in the month
of May as they were in the days of Ovid, when it was a proverbial saying at Rome that

   "Mense malas Maio nubere vulgus ait."

And, in the marriage ceremony itself, the finger-ring still holds among us as prominent a place
as it did among the superstitious marriage-rites of the ancient pagan world. Among the endless
magical and medical properties that were formerly supposed to be possessed by human saliva,
one is almost universally credited by the Scottish schoolboy up to the present hour; for few
of them ever assume the temporary character of pugilists without duly spitting into their hands
ere they close their fists; as if they retained a full reliance on the magical power of the
saliva to increase the strength of the impending blow--if not to avert any feeling of malice
produced by it--as was enunciated, eighteen centuries ago, by one of the most laborious and
esteemed writers of that age,[218] in a division of his work which he gravely prefaces with
the assertion that in this special division he has made it his "object (as he declares) to
state no facts but such as are established by nearly uniform testimony."

In a separate chapter (chap. iv.) in his 30th Book, Pliny alludes to the prevalence of magical
beliefs and superstitious practices in the ancient Celtic provinces of France and Britain.
"The Gaelic provinces," says he, "were pervaded by the magical art, and that even down to a
period within memory; for it was the Emperor Tiberius who put down the Druids and all that
tribe of wizards and physicians." We know, however, from the ancient history of France posterior
to Pliny's time, that the Druids survived as a powerful class in that country for a long time
afterwards. Writing towards the end of the first century, Pliny goes on to remark;--"At the
present day, struck with fascination, Britannia still cultivates this art, and that with ceremonials
so august, that she might almost seem to have been the first to communicate them to the people
of Persia." "To such a degree," adds this old Roman philosopher, "are nations throughout the
whole world, totally different as they are, and quite unknown to one another, in accord upon
this one point."[219]

Some supposed vestiges of a most interesting kind, of very ancient Gallic or Celtic word-charms,
have recently been brought before archæologists by the celebrated German philologist Grimm,
and by Pictet of Geneva. Marcellus, the private physician of the Roman Emperor Theodosius,
was a Gaul born in Aquitane, and hence, it is believed, was intimately acquainted with the
Gaulish or Celtic language of that province. He left a work on quack medicines (De Medicamentis
Empiricis), written probably near the end of the fourth century. This work contains, amongst
other things, a number of word-charms, or superstitious cure-formulas, that were, till lately,
regarded--like Cato's word-cure for fractures of the bones--as mere unmeaning gibberish. Joseph
Grimm and M. Pictet, however, think that they have found in these word-charms of Marcellus,
specimens of the Gaulish or Celtic language several centuries older than any that were previously
known to exist--none of the earliest glosses used by Zeuss, in his famous Grammatica Celtica,
being probably earlier than the eighth or ninth centuries. If the labours of Grimm and Pictet
prove successful in this curious field of labour, they will add another proof to the prevalence
of magical charms among the Celtic nations of antiquity, and afford us additional confirmation
of the ancient prevalence, as described by Pliny, of a belief in the magical art among the
Gaelic inhabitants of France and Britain.[220]

The long catalogue of the medical superstitions and magical practices originally pertaining
to our Celtic forefathers, was no doubt from time to time increased and swelled out in Britain
by the addition of the analogous medical superstitions and practices of the successive Roman[221]
and Teutonic [222] invaders and conquerors of our island. A careful analysis would yet perhaps
enable the archæologist to separate some of these classes of magical beliefs from each other;
but many of them had, perhaps, a common and long anterior origin. We know further that, in
its earlier centuries among us, the teachers of Christianity added greatly to the number of
existing medical superstitions, by maintaining the efficacy, for example, of a visit to the
cross of King Edwin of Northumberland, for the cure of agues, etc.,--the marvellous alleged
recoveries worked by visiting the grave of St. Ninian at Whitehorn, or the cross of St. Mungo
in the Cathedral churchyard at Glasgow; the sovereign virtues of the waters of wells used by
various anchorets, and dedicated to various saints throughout the country; the curative powers
of holy robes, bells, bones, relics, etc.

Numerous forms of medical superstitions, charms, amulets, incantations, etc., derived from
the preceding channels, and possibly also from other sources, seem to have been known and practised
among our forefathers, and for the cure of almost all varieties of human maladies, whether
of the mind or body. Our old Scottish hagiologies, witch trials, ecclesiastical records, etc.,
abound with notices of them. Nor have some of the oldest and most marked medical superstitions
of ancient times been very long obliterated and forgotten. I know, for example, of two localities
in the Lowlands, one near Biggar in Lanarkshire, the other near Torphichen in West Lothian,
where, within the memory of the present and past generation, living cows have been sacrificed
for curative purposes, or under the hope of arresting the progress of the murrain in other
members of the flock. In both these instances the cow was sacrificed by being buried alive.
The sacrifice of other living animals,[223] as of the cat, cock, mole, etc., for the cure of
disease, and especially of fits, epilepsy, and insanity, continues to be occasionally practised
in some parts of the Highlands up to the present day. And in the city of Edinburgh itself,
every physician knows the fact that, in the chamber of death, usually the face of the mirror
is most carefully covered over, and often a plate with salt in it is placed upon the chest
of the corpse.

The Museum of the Society contains a few medicinal charms and amulets, principally in the form
of amber beads (which were held potent in the cure of blindness), perforated stones, and old
distaff whorls, whose original use seems to have been forgotten, and new and magical properties
assigned to them. But the most important medicinal relic in the collection is the famous "Barbreck's
bone," a slice or tablet of ivory, about seven inches long, four broad, and half-an-inch in
thickness. It was long in the possession of the ancient family of Barbreck in Argyleshire,
and over the Western Highlands had the reputation of curing all forms and degrees of insanity.
It was formerly reckoned so valuable that a bond of £100 was required to be deposited for the
loan of it.

But the main object of the present communication is, through the kind permission of Struan
Robertson, Lady Lockhart of Lee, and others, to show to the Society two or three of the principal
curing-stones of Scotland.

Several of these curing-stones long retained their notoriety, but they have now almost all
fallen entirely into disuse, at least for the cure of human diseases. In some districts, however,
they are still employed in the treatment of the diseases of domestic animals.

A very ancient example of the use of a "curing-stone" in this country is detailed in what may
be regarded as the first or oldest historical work which has been left us in reference to Scotland,
namely, in Adamnan's Life of St. Columba. This biography of the founder of Iona was probably
written in the last years of the seventh century, Adamnan having died in A.D. 705. He was elected
to the Abbacy of Iona A.D. 679, and had there the most favourable opportunities of becoming
acquainted with all the existing traditions and records regarding St. Columba. About the year
563 of the Christian era, Columba visited Brude, King of the Picts, in his royal fort on the
Ness, and found the Pictish sovereign attended by a court or council, and with Brochan as his
chief Druid or Magus. Brochan retained an Irish female, and consequently a countrywoman of
Columba's, as a slave. The 33d chapter of the second book of Adamnan's work is entitled, "Concerning
the Illness with which the Druid (Magus) Brochan was visited for refusing to liberate a Female
Captive, and his Cure when he restored her to Liberty." The story told by Adamnan, under this
head, is as follows:--

Curing-Stone of St. Columba.

"About the same time the venerable man, from motives of humanity, besought Brochan the Druid
to liberate a certain Irish female captive, a request which Brochan harshly and obstinately
refused to grant. The Saint then spoke to him as follows:--'Know, O Brochan, know, that if
you refuse to set this captive free, as I desire you, you shall die before I return from this
province.' Having said this in presence of Brude the king, he departed from the royal palace
and proceeded to the river Nesa, from which he took a white pebble, and showing it to his companions,
said to them:--'Behold this white pebble, by which God will effect the cure of many diseases.'
Having thus spoken, he added, 'Brochan is punished grievously at this moment, for an angel
sent from heaven, striking him severely, has broken in pieces the glass cup which he held in
his hands, and from which he was in the act of drinking, and he himself is left half dead.
Let us await here, for a short time, two of the king's messengers, who have been sent after
us in haste, to request us to return quickly and relieve the dying Brochan, who, now that he
is thus terribly punished, consents to set his captive free.'

"While the saint was yet speaking, behold, there arrived as he had predicted, two horsemen,
who were sent by the king, and who related all that had occurred, according to the prediction
of the saint--the breaking of the drinking goblet, the punishment of the Druid, and his willingness
to set his captive at liberty. They then added:--'The king and his councillors have sent us
to you to request that you would cure his foster father, Brochan, who lies in a dying state.'

"Having heard these words of the messengers, Saint Columba sent two of his companions to the
king, with the pebble which he had blessed, and said to them; 'If Brochan shall first promise
to free his captive, immerse this little stone in water and let him drink from it, but if he
refuse to liberate her, he will that instant die.'

"The two persons sent by the saint proceeded to the palace and announced the words of the holy
man to the king and to Brochan, an announcement which filled them with such fear, that he immediately
liberated the captive and delivered her to the saint's messengers."

The stone was then immersed in water, and in a wonderful manner, and contrary to the laws of
nature, it floated on the water like a nut or an apple, nor could it be submerged. Brochan
drank from the stone as it floated on the water, and instantly recovered his perfect health
and soundness of body.

"This little pebble (adds Adamnan) was afterwards preserved among the treasures of the king,
retained its miraculous property of floating in water, and through the mercy of God effected
the cure of sundry diseases. And, what is very wonderful, when it was sought for by those sick
persons whose term of life had arrived it could not be found. An instance of this occurred
the very day king Brude died, when the stone, though sought for with great diligence, could
not be found in the place where it had been previously left."[224]

In the Highlands of Scotland there have been transmitted down, for many generations, various
curing or charm-stones, used in the same manner as that of Columba, and reckoned capable, like
his, of imparting to the water in which they were immersed[225] wondrous medicinal powers.
One of the most celebrated of these curing-stones belongs to Struan Robertson, the chief of
the Clan Donnachie. I am indebted to the kindness of Mrs. Robertson, for the following notes
regarding the curing-stone, of which her family are the hereditary proprietors. Its local name is

Clach-na-Bratach, or Stone of the Standard.

"This stone has been in possession of the Chiefs of Clan Donnachaidh since 1315.

"It is said to have been acquired in this wise.

"The (then) chief, journeying with his clan to join Bruce's army before Bannockburn, observed,
on his standard being lifted one morning, a glittering something in a clod of earth hanging
to the flagstaff. It was this stone. He showed it to his followers, and told them he felt sure
its brilliant lights were a good omen and foretold a victory--and victory was won on the hard-fought
field of Bannockburn.

"From this time, whenever the clan was 'out,' the Clach-na-Bratach accompanied it, carried
on the person of the chief, and its varying hues were consulted by him as to the fate of battle.
On the eve of Sheriffmuir (13th November 1715), of sad memory, on Struan consulting the stone
as to the fate of the morrow, the large internal flaw was first observed. The Stuarts were
lost--and Clan Donnachaidh has been declining in influence ever since.

"The virtues of the Clach-na-Bratach are not altogether of a martial nature, for it cures all
manner of diseases in cattle and horses, and formerly in human beings also, if they drink the
water in which this charmed stone has been thrice dipped by the hands of Struan."

The Clach-na-Bratach is a transparent, globular mass of rock crystal, of the size of a small
apple. (See accompanying woodcut, Fig. 17.) Its surface has been artificially polished. Several
specimens of round rock-crystal, of the same description and size, and similarly polished,
have been found deposited in ancient sepulchres, and were formerly used also in the decoration
of shrines and sceptres.

Another well-known example of the Highland curing-stone is the

Clach Dearg, or Stone of Ardvoirloch.

This stone is a clear rock-crystal ball of a similar character, but somewhat smaller than the
Clach-na-Bratach, and placed in a setting (see Fig. 18) of four silver bands or slips. The
following account of the Ardvoirloch curing-stone is from the pen of one of the present members
of that ancient family:--

"It has been in the possession of our family from time immemorial, but there is no writing
about it in any of the charters, nor even a tradition as to when and how it became possessed
of it. It is supposed to have been brought from the East, which supposition is corroborated
by the fact of the silver setting being recognised as of Eastern workmanship. Its healing powers
have always been held in great repute in our own neighbourhood, particularly in diseases of
cattle. I have even known persons come for the water into which it has been dipped from a distance
of forty miles. It is also believed to have other properties which you know of.

"These superstitions would have existed up to the present day, had I not myself put a stop
to them; but six years ago, I took an opportunity to do away with them, by depositing the stone
with some of the family plate in a chest which I sent to the bank. Thus, when applied to for
it (which I have been since then), I had the excuse of not having it in my possession; and
when the Laird returns from India, it is hoped the superstition may be forgotten, and "the
stone" preserved only as a very precious heirloom.

"I may mention that there were various forms to be observed by those who wished to benefit
by its healing powers. The person who came for it to Ardvoirloch was obliged to draw the water
himself, and bring it into the house in some vessel into which this stone was to be dipped.
A bottle was filled and carried away; and in its conveyance home, if carried into any house
by the way, the virtue was supposed to leave the water; it was therefore necessary, if a visit
had to be paid, that the bottle should be left outside."

Other charm-stones enjoyed, up to the present century, no small medical reputation among the
inhabitants of the Highlands. In some districts, every ancient family of note appears to have
affected the possession of a curing-stone. The Campbells of Glenlyon have long been the hereditary
proprietors of a charm-stone similar to those that I have already mentioned. It consists of
a roundish or ovoidal ball, apparently of rock-crystal, about an inch and a half in diameter,
and protected by a silver mounting. To make the water in which it was dipped sufficiently medicinal
and effective, the stone, during the process, required to be held in the hand of the Laird.
The Bairds of Auchmeddan possessed another of these celebrated northern amulets. The Auchmeddan
Stone is a ball of black-coloured flint, mounted with four strips of silver. A legend engraved
on this silver setting--in letters probably of the last century--states that this "Amulet or
charm belonged to the family of Baird of Auchmeddan from the year 1174." In the middle of the
last century, this amulet passed as a family relic to the Frasers of Findrack, when an intermarriage
with the Bairds occurred.

Curing-stones seem to have formerly been by no means rare in this country, to the south also
of the Highland Borders. In a letter written by the distinguished Welsh archæologist Edward
Lhwyd, and dated Linlithgow, December 17, 1699, he states that betwixt Wales and the Highlands
he had seen at least fifty different forms of the party-coloured glass bead or amulet known
under the name of Adder-beads or Snake stones.[226] In Scotland he found various materials
used as healing amulets, particularly some pebbles of remarkable shape and colour, and hollow
balls and rings of coloured glass. "They have also," he says, "the Ombriæ pellucidæ, which
are crystal balls or hemispheres, or depressed ovals, in great esteem for curing of cattle;
and some on May-day put them into a tub of water, and besprinkle all their cattle with that
water, to prevent being elf-struck, bewitched, etc."

In the Lowlands, the curing-stone of greatest celebrity, and the one which has longest retained
its repute, is

The Lee Penny.

In the present century this ancient medical charm-stone has acquired a world-wide reputation
as the original of the Talisman of Sir Walter Scott, though latterly its therapeutic reputation
has greatly declined, and almost entirely ceased.[227] The enchanted stone has long been in
the possession of the knightly family of the Lockharts of Lee, in Lanarkshire. According to
a mythical tradition, it was, in the fourteenth century, brought by Sir Simon Lockhart from
the Holy Land, where it had been used as a medical amulet, for the arrestment of hæmorrhage,
fever, etc. It is a small dark-red stone, of a somewhat triangular or heart shape, as represented
in the adjoining woodcut (Fig. 19). It is set in the reverse of a groat of Edward IV., of the
London Mint.[228]

When the Lee Penny was used for healing purposes, a vessel was filled with water, the stone
was drawn once round the vessel, and then dipped three times in the water. In his Account of
the Penny in the Lee, written in 1702, Hunter states, that "it being taken and put into the
end of a cloven stick, and washen in a tub full of water, and given to cattell to drink, infallibly
cures almost all manner of deseases. The people," he adds, "come from all airts of the kingdom
with deseased beasts."

One or two points in its history prove the faith that was placed in the healing powers of the
Lee Penny in human maladies of the most formidable type. About the beginning of last century,
Lady Baird of Saughtonhall was attacked with the supposed symptoms of hydrophobia. But on drinking
of, and bathing in, the water in which the Lee Penny had been dipped, the symptoms disappeared;
and the Knight and Lady of Lee were for many days sumptuously entertained by the grateful patient.
In one of the epidemics of plague which attacked Newcastle in the reign of Charles I., the
inhabitants of that town obtained the loan of the Lee Penny by granting a bond of £6000 for
its safe return. Such, it is averred, was their belief in its virtues, and the good that it
effected, that they offered to forfeit the money, and keep the charm-stone.

About the middle of the seventeenth century the Reformed Protestant Church of Scotland zealously
endeavoured, as the English Church under King Edgar had long before done, to "extinguish every
heathenism, and forbid well-worshippings, and necromancies, and divinations, and enchantments,
and man-worshippings, and the vain practices which are carried on with various spells, and
with elders, and also with other trees, and with stones, etc."[229] They left, however, other
practices, equally superstitious, quite untouched. Thus, while they threatened "the seventh
son of a woman" with the "paine of Kirk censure," for "cureing the cruelles (scrofulous tumours
and ulcers),"[230] by touching them, they still allowed the reigning king this power (Charles
II. alone "touched" 92,000 such patients);[231] and the English Church sanctioned a liturgy
to be used on these superstitious occasions. Again, the Synod of the Presbyterian Church of
Glasgow examined into the alleged curative gifts of the Lee Penny; but, finding that it was
employed "wtout using onie words such as charmers and sorcerers use in their unlawfull practisess;
and considering that in nature there are mony things seen to work strange effects, q^{r}of
no human witt can give a reason, it having pleasit God to give to stones and herbes special
virtues for the healing of mony infirmities in man and beast, advises the brethern to surcease
their process, as q^{r}in they perceive no ground of offence: And admonishes the said Laird
of Lee, in the useing of the said stone to tak heed that it be used hereafter w^t the least
scandal that possiblie may be."[232]

[Footnote 217: Natural History, Book xxx. chapters i. ii.]

[Footnote 218: "What we are going to say," observes Pliny, "is marvellous, but it may easily
be tested by experiment. If a person repents of a blow given to another, either by hand or
with a missile, he has nothing to do but to spit at once into the palm of the hand which has
inflicted the blow, and all feeling of resentment will be instantly alleviated in the person
struck. This, too, is often verified in the case of a beast of burden, when brought on its
haunches with blows: for, upon this remedy being adopted, the animal will immediately step
out and mend its pace. Some persons, also, before making an effort, spit into the hand in the
manner above stated, in order to make the blow more heavy."--Pliny's Natural History, xxviii. § 7.]

[Footnote 219: Natural History, Book xxx. § 4. Archæologists are now fully aware of "the accord"
of the ancient inhabitants of Britain with those of Persia and the other eastern branches of
the Aryan race in many other particulars, as in their language, burial customs, etc. According
to some Indian observers, stone erections, like our so-called Druidical circles, cromlechs,
etc., are common in the East. Is it vain to hope that amid the great and yet unsearched remains
of old Sanscrit literature, allusions may yet be found to such structures, that may throw more
light upon their uses in connection with religious, sepulchral, or other services?]

[Footnote 220: Grimm thinks that the formulæ of Marcellus partake more of the Celtic dialects
of the Irish, and consequently of the Scotch, than of the Welsh. As one of the shortest specimens
of Marcellus's charm-cures, let me cite, from Pictet, the following, as given in the Ulster
Journal of Archæology, vol. iv. p. 266:--"Formula 12. He who shall labour under the disease
of watery (or blood-shot) eyes, let him pluck the herb Millefolium up by the roots, and of
it make a hoop, and look through it, saying three times, 'Excicumacriosos;' and let him as
often move the hoop to his mouth, and spit through the middle of it, and then plant the herb
again." "I divide," observes Pictet, "the formula thus: exci cuma criosos, and translate it,
'See the form of the girdle.'" After a long and learned disquisition on the component words
Pictet adds--"The process of cure recommended in this formula is of a character altogether
symbolical. Girdles (cris), which we shall meet with again in formula No. 27, seem to have
performed an important part in Celtic medicine. By making the eye look through the circle formed
by the plant, a girdle, as it were, was put round it; and it is for this reason that the formula
says, see the form (or model) of the girdle. The action of spitting afterwards through the
little ring expressed symbolically the expulsion of the pain." The so-called Celtic word-charms
in the formulæ of Marcellus are usually longer than the above; as, "Tetune resonco bregan gresso;"
"Heilen prossaggeri nome sipolla na builet ododieni iden olitan," etc. etc.]

[Footnote 221: On this subject I elsewhere published, two years ago, the following remarks:--"The
medical science and medical lore of the past has become, after a succession of ages, the so-called
folk-lore and superstitious usages of times nearer our own. Up to the end of the last century,
patients attacked with insanity were occasionally dipped in lakes and wells, and left bound
in the neighbouring church for a night. Loch Maree, in Ross-shire, and St. Fillan's Pool, in
Perthshire, were places in which such unfortunate patients were frequently dipped. Heron, in
his Journey through Scotland in the last century, states that it was affirmed that two hundred
invalids were carried annually to St. Fillan's for the cure of various diseases, but principally
of insanity. The proceedings at this famous pool were in such cases an imitation of the old
Greek and Roman worship of Æsculapius. Patients consulting the Æsculapian priest were purified
first of all, by bathing in some sacred well; and then having been allowed to enter into and
sleep in his temple, the god, or rather some priest of the god, came in the darkness of the
night and told them what treatment they were to adopt. The poor lunatics brought to St. Fillan's
were, in the same way, first purified by being bathed in his pool, and then laid bound in the
neighbouring church during the subsequent night. If they were found loose in the morning, a
full recovery was confidently looked for, but the cure remained doubtful when they were found
at morning dawn still bound. I was lately informed by the Rev. Mr Stewart of Killin, that in
one of the last cases so treated--and that only a few years ago--the patient was found sane
in the morning, and unbound; a dead relative, according to the patient's own account, having
entered the church during the night, and loosened her both from the ropes that bound her body
and the delusions that warped her mind. It was a system of treatment by mystery and terrorism
that might have made some sane persons insane; and hence, perhaps, conversely, some insane
persons sane. Mr. Pennant tells us that at Llandegla, in Wales, where similar rites were performed
for the cure of insanity, viz., purification in the sacred well, and forced detention of the
patient for a night in the church, under the communion-table, the lunatics or their friends
were obliged to leave a cock in the church if he were a male, and a hen if she were a female--an
additional circumstance in proof of the Æsculapian type of the superstition. But perhaps, after
all, the whole is a medical or mythological belief, older than Greece or Rome, and which was
common to the whole Aryan or Indo-European race in Asia before they sent off, westward, over
Europe, those successive waves of population that formed the nations of the Celt and Teuton,
of the Goth, and Greek, and Latin. The cock is still occasionally sacrificed in the Highlands
for the cure of epilepsy and convulsions. A patient of mine found one, a few years ago, deposited
in a hole in the kitchen floor; the animal having been killed and laid down at the spot where
a child had, two or three days previously, fallen down in a fit of convulsions."--See the Medical
Times and Gazette of Dec. 8, 1860, p. 549.]

[Footnote 222: See, for example, Kemble's work on the Anglo-Saxons, vol. i. p. 528, for various
Teutonic medical superstitions and cures.]

[Footnote 223: A very intelligent patient from the North Highlands, to whom I happened lately
to speak on this subject, has written out the following instances that have occurred within
her own knowledge:--"Twenty years or more ago, in the parish of Nigg, Ross-shire, there was
a lad of fifteen ill with epilepsy. To cure him, his friends first tried the charm of mole's
blood. A plate was laid on the lad's head; the living mole was held over it by the tail, the
head cut off, and the blood allowed to drop into the plate. Three moles were sacrificed one
after the other, but without effect. Next they tried the effect of a bit of the skull of a
suicide, and sent for this treasure a distance of from sixty to one hundred miles. This bit
of the skull was scraped to dust into a cup of water, which the lad had to swallow, not knowing
the contents. This I heard from a sister of the lad's. There was a 'strong-minded' old woman
at Strathpeffer, Ross-shire whose daughter told me that the neighbours had come to condole
with the mother after she had fallen down in a fit of some kind. They strongly advised her
to bury a living cock in the very place where she had fallen, to prevent a return of the ailment.
A woman in Sutherlandshire told me that she knew a young man, ill of consumption, who was made
to drink his own blood after it had been drawn from his arm. This same woman was ill with a
pain in her chest, which she could get nothing to relieve; so her father sent off for 'a knowing
man,' who, when he saw the girl, repeated some words under his breath, then touched the floor
and her shoulder three times alternately, and with alleged success."]

[Footnote 224: In the first chapter of Adamnan's work, the miracle is again alluded to as follows:--"He
took a white stone (lapidem candidum) from the river's bed, and blessed it for the cure of
certain diseases; and that stone, contrary to the law of nature, floats like an apple when
placed in the water."]

[Footnote 225: For other instances of waters rendered medicinal by being brought in contact
with saint's bones--such as St. Marnan's head, with St. Conval's chariot, etc. etc., see Dalyell's
Superstitions of Scotland, p. 151, etc. Sibbald's Memoirs of the Edinburgh College of Physicians,
p. 39.]

[Footnote 226: See Philosophical Transactions for the year 1713, p. 98. For instances of curing-stones
in the Hebrides, see Martin's Western Isles, p. 134, 166, etc.]

[Footnote 227: I was lately told by the farmer at Nemphlar, in the neighbourhood of Lee, that
in his younger days no byre was considered safe which had not a bottle of water from the Lee
Penny suspended from its rafters. Even this remnant of superstition seems to have died out
during the present generation.]

[Footnote 228: I state this on the high numismatic authority of my friend, Mr. Sim. Sir Walter
Scott describes the coin as a groat of Edward I.]

[Footnote 229: Kemble's Anglo-Saxons, vol. i. p. 527, etc.]

[Footnote 230: See a case of this prohibition in the Ecclesiastical Records of the Presbytery
of St. Andrews for September 1643. "It is manifest by experience," says Upton, "that the seventh
male child by just order, never a girle or wench being borne betweene, doth heall only with
touching, by a natural gift, the king's evil; which is a speciall gift of God, given to kings
and queens, as daily experience doth witnesse." See Upton's Notable Things (1631), p. 28. Charles
I. when he visited Scotland in 1633, in Holyrood Chapel, on St. John's day, "heallit 100 persons
of the cruelles, or kingis eivell, yong and olde."--Dalyell's Superstitions, p. 62.]

[Footnote 231: See the "Charisma Basilicon" (1684) of John Browne, "Chirurgion to His Majesty,"
for a full and charming account of the whole process and ceremonies of the royal "touch," the
prayers used on the occasion, and due proofs of the alleged wondrous effects of this "sanative
gift, which hath (says Dr. Browne) for above 640 years been confirmed and continued in our
English Princely line, wherein is not so much of their Majesty shown as of their Divinity,"
and which is only doubted by "Ill affected men and Dissenters."]

[Footnote 232: See the Gentleman's Magazine for December 1787.]

IS THE GREAT PYRAMID OF GIZEH A METROLOGICAL MONUMENT?

   The following observations form a corrected Abstract, from No. 75 of
   the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, of a
   communication made to that Society on the 20th January 1868, and
   entitled Pyramidal Structures in Egypt and elsewhere; and the
   Objects of their Erection. Some additional points are dwelt upon in
   the Notes and Appendix. As stated at the time, the communication was
   not at all spontaneous, but enforced by the previous criticisms of
   Professor Smyth.

There are many proposed derivations of the word Pyramid. Perhaps the origin of the name suggested
by the distinguished Egyptologist, Mr. Birch, from two Coptic words, "pouro," "ing," and "emahau,"
or "maha," "tomb,"--the two in combination signifying "the king's tomb,"--is the most correct.
"Men," in Coptic, signifies "monument," "memorial;" and "pouro-men," or "king's monument,"
may possibly also be the original form of the word.[233]

Various English authors, as Pope,[234] Pownall,[235] Professor Daniel Wilson,[236] Burton,[237]
had long applied the term pyramid to the larger forms of conical and round sepulchral mounds,
cairns, or barrows--such as are found in Ireland, Brittany, Orkney, etc., and also in numerous
districts of the New and Old World;[238] and which are all characterised by containing in their
interior chambers or cells, constructed usually of large stones, and with megalithic galleries
leading into them. In these chambers (small in relation to the hills of stone or earth in which
they were imbedded) were found the remains of sepulture, with stone weapons, ornaments, etc.
The galleries and chambers were roofed, sometimes with flags laid quite flat, or placed abutting
against each other; and occasionally with large stones arranged over the internal cells in
the form of a horizontal arch or dome. In his travels to Madeira and the Mediterranean (1840),
Sir W. Wilde details in interesting terms his visit to the pyramids of Egypt; and in describing
the roof of the interior chambers of one of the pyramids at Sakkara,[239] he remarks on the
analogy of its construction to the great barrow of Dowth in Ireland; and again, when writing--in
his work on the Beauties of the Boyne (1849)--an account of the great old barrows of Dowth,
New Grange, etc., placed on its banks above Drogheda, he describes at some length the last
of these mounds (New Grange),--stating that it "consists" of an enormous cairn or "hill of
small stones, calculated at 180,000 tons weight, occupying the summit of one of the natural
undulating slopes which enclose the valley of the Boyne upon the north. It is said to cover
nearly two acres, and is 400 paces in circumference, and now about 80 feet higher than the
adjoining natural surface. Various excavations (he adds) made into its sides and upon its summit,
at different times, in order to supply materials for building and road-making, having assisted
to lessen its original height, and also to destroy the beauty of its outline." Like the other
analogous mounds and pyramids placed there and elsewhere, New Grange has a long megalithic
gallery, of above 60 feet in length, leading inward into three dome-shaped chambers or crypts.
After describing minutely, and with a master-hand, the construction of these interior parts,
and the carvings of circles, spirals, etc.,[240] upon the enormous stones of which the gallery
and crypts are built, Sir William Wilde goes on to observe:--"We believe with most modern investigators
into such subjects, that it was a tomb, or great sepulchral Pyramid, similar in every respect
to those now standing by the banks of the Nile, from Dashour to Gizeh, each consisting of a
great central chamber containing one or more sarcophagi, entered by a long stone-covered passage.
The external aperture was concealed, and the whole covered with a great mound of stones or
earth in a conical form. The early Egyptians, and the Mexicans also, possessing greater art
and better tools than the primitive Irish, carved, smoothed, and cemented their great pyramids;
but the type and purpose is all the same.... How far anterior to the Christian era its date
should be placed would be a matter of speculation; it may be of an age coeval, or even anterior,
to its brethren on the Nile."

Other pyramidal barrows at Maeshowe, Gavr Inis, etc., were referred to and illustrated; showing
that a gigantic sepulchral cairn was in its mass an unbuilt pyramid; or, in other words, that
a pyramid was a built cairn.

SEPULCHRAL CHARACTER, ETC., OF THE EGYPTIAN PYRAMIDS.

All authors, from the Father of History downwards, have generally agreed in considering the
pyramids of Egypt as magnificent and regal sepulchres; and the sarcophagi, etc., of the dead
have been found in them when first opened for the purposes of plunder or curiosity. The pyramidal
sepulchral mounds on the banks of the Boyne were opened and rifled in the ninth century by
the invading Dane, as told in different old Irish annals; and the Pyramids of Gizeh, etc.,
were reputedly broken into and harried in the same century by the Arabian Caliph, Al Mamoon,--the
entrances and galleries blocked up by stones being forced and turned, and in some parts the
solid masonry perforated. The largest of the Pyramids of Gizeh--or "the Great Pyramid," as
it is generally termed--is now totally deprived of the external polished limestone coating
which covered it at the time of Herodotus's visit, some twenty-two centuries ago; and "now"
(writes Mr. Smyth) "is so injured as to be, in the eyes of some passing travellers, little
better than a heap of stones." But all the internal built core of the magnificent structure
remains, and contains in its interior (besides a rock chamber below) two higher built chambers
or crypts above--the so-called King's Chamber and Queen's chamber--with galleries and apartments
leading to them. The walls of these galleries and upper chambers are built with granite and
limestone masonry of a highly-finished character. This, the largest and most gigantic of the
many pyramids of Egypt, had been calculated by Major Forlong (Asso. Inst. C. Engrs.), as a
structure which in the East would cost about £1,000,000. Over India, and the East generally,
enormous sums had often been expended on royal sepulchres. The Taj Mahal of Agra, built by
the Emperor Shah Jahan for his favourite queen, cost perhaps double or triple this sum; and
yet it formed only a portion of an intended larger mausoleum which he expected to rear for
himself. The great Pyramid contains in its interior, and directly over the King's Chamber,
five entresols or "chambers of construction," as they have been termed, intended apparently
to take off the enormous weight of masonry from the cross stones forming the roof of the King's
Chamber itself. These entresols are chambers, small and unpolished, and never intended to be
opened. But in two or three of them, broken into by Colonel H. Vyse, a most interesting discovery
was made about thirty years ago. The surfaces of some of the stones were found painted over
in red ochre or paint, with rudish hieroglyphics--being, as first shown by Mr. Birch, quarry
marks, written on the stones 4000 years ago, and hence, perhaps, forming the oldest preserved
writing in the world. These accidental hieroglyphics usually marked only the number and position
of the individual stones. Among them, however, Mr. Birch discovered two royal ovals, viz.,
Shufu (the Cheops of Herodotus) and Nu Shufu--"a brother" (writes Professor Symth) "of Shufu,
also a king and a co-regent with him." Most, if not all, of the other pyramids are believed
to have been erected by individual kings during their individual or separate reigns. If these
hieroglyphics proved that two kings were connected with the building of the Great Pyramid,
that circumstance would perhaps account for its size and the duplicity and position of its
sepulchral chambers.[241]

The pyramid standing next the Great Pyramid, and nearly of equal size, is said by Herodotus
to have been raised by the brother of Cheops. The other pyramids at Gizeh are usually regarded
as later in date. But the exact era of the reign or reigns of their builders has not as yet
been determined, in consequence of the break made in Egyptian chronology by the invasion of
the Shepherd Kings.

In their mode of building, the various pyramids of Gizeh, etc., are all similar, and the Great
Pyramid does not specially differ from the others. "There is nothing" (observes Professor Smyth)
"in the stone-upon-stone composition of the Great Pyramid which speaks of the mere building
problem to be solved there, as being of a different character, or requiring inventions by man
of absolutely higher order than elsewhere." But the Great Pyramid has been imagined to contain
some hidden symbols and meanings. For "it is the manner of the Pyramid" (according to Professor
Smyth) "not to wear its most vital truths in prominent outside positions."

ALLEGED METROLOGICAL OBJECT OF THE GREAT PYRAMID.

