Belgium Ecclesiastical Antiquities (Vol. vii., p. 65.).--The inquiry of AJAX has only been
recently brought under my notice. In reply, I refer him to Recueil Héraldique et Historique
des Familles de Belgique. This is the finest work on the antiquities, civil, military, and
ecclesiastic, of that country: it was printed at Antwerp by Rapell fils, and is in five large
4to. volumes. I saw a copy sold in Malines for about 3l.: it is now become more scarce, and
probably could not be obtained under 4l.

HENRY DAVENEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

The Faussett Collection has, as our readers are probably aware, become the property not of
the public, but of a private individual, Mr. Joseph Mayer, F.S.A., of Liverpool, who, with
praiseworthy liberality, has resolved to make the Collection as useful as possible to the public.
He has therefore determined to publish, under the title of Saxon Antiquities from the Kentish
Tumuli, Mr. Faussett's copious MS. accounts of the opening of the Barrows, and of the discoveries
made in them; accompanied by numerous illustrations of the more important objects themselves,
especially of the world-renowned Gold Brooches, which exhibit such exquisite specimens of the
artistic skill of our ancestors. The work will appear under the editorship of Mr. C. Roach
Smith, who will illustrate Mr. Faussett's discoveries by the results of kindred investigations
in France and Germany. The subscription price is Two Guineas, and the number of copies will,
as far as possible, be regulated by the list of subscribers.

A few months since The Athenæum announced the discovery at Lambeth, some time previously, of
a number of documents of the Cromwellian period. This announcement attracted the attention
of some French literary man, probably M. Guizot, who appears to have made some inquiries on
the subject, which resulted in a paragraph in the Journal des Débats, not, indeed, contradicting
the fact of the discovery, but denying its importance. Can any of our readers throw light upon
this matter? Had our valued correspondent DR. MAITLAND still held office at Lambeth, there
would probably not have been any doubt left as to the value or worthlessness of any MSS. discovered
under the archiepiscopal roof,--albeit, found as we have understood these to have been, not
in the department of the librarian, or, indeed, of any of the officials, but in some out-of-the
way tower. Have these documents been examined? If so, what are they? If not, why does not the
Society of Antiquaries send a deputation to the archbishop, and request his permission to undertake
the task. Probably their labour would {387} not be thrown away. At all events, the doubt which
now exists, whether valuable but unused materials for a most important period of our history
may not be mouldering at Lambeth, would be removed; and future Carlyles be spared useless journeys
and wasted hours to rediscover them.

A publishing Society, somewhat similar to the Camden, has been established in the United States,
under the title of The Seventy-six Society, for the publication and republication of books
and papers relating to the American Revolution.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Gibbon's Rome, with Variorum Notes, Vol. III., Bohn's British Classics. The
third volume of this cheap and excellent reprint of Gibbon extends from Julian's expedition
against the Persians to the accession of Marcian.--The Book of the Axe, containing a Piscatorial
Description of that Stream, &c., by George P. R. Pulman. A pleasant semi-piscatorial, semi-antiquarian,
gossiping volume, welcome at this season, when the May-fly is looked for on the waters; illustrative
of the fishing spots and historical localities of the far-famed Axe.--Tasso's Jerusalem Delivered,
translated into English Spenserian; with a Life of the Author, by J. H. Wiffen, the new volume
of Bohn's Illustrated Library, forms a fitting companion to Wright's Dante, so recently noticed
by us.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

LINGARD'S ENGLAND. Foolscap 8vo. 1844. Vols. I. To V., and X. and XI.

THE WORKS OF DR. JONATHAN SWIFT. London, printed for C. Bathurst, in Fleet Street, 1768. Vol.
VII. (Vol. VI. ending with "Verses on the Death of Dr. Swift," written in Nov. 1731.)

BYRON'S WORKS. Vol. VI. of Murray's Edition. 1829.

The Volume of the LONDON POLYGLOTT which contains the Prophets. Imperfection in other parts
of no consequence.

CARLISLE ON GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.

THE CIRCLE OF THE SEASONS. London, 1828. 12mo. Two copies. VII. of "Maurice's Indian Antiquities,
1796."

  Wanted by the Rev. H. Atlay, B.-Casterton, Stamford.

BISHOP O'BRIEN'S TEN SERMONS ON JUSTIFICATION.

  Wanted by Lieut. Bruce, Royal Horse Artillery, Chatham.

LATIMER'S SERMONS. Published by the Parker Society. Vol. I.

  Wanted by Mr. J. G. Nichols, 25. Parliament Street.

PLANS OR MAPS OF ANCIENT LONDON, and Representations of Remarkable and Interesting Objects
connected therewith--large size (such as Old St. Paul's, Paul's Cross, Old London Bridge, &c.).

A Copy of No. 1. (or early number) of "The Times" Newspaper.

A Copy of one of the "Broadsheets" issued during the Plague.

  Wanted by Mr. Joseph Simpson, Librarian, Literary and Scientific
      Institution, Islington, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

We must beg the indulgence of many Correspondents for omitting to reply to them this holiday week.

H. B. C.'s paper, Impossibilities of History, in our next.

T. L. N. For the authorship of the Latin verse on Dr. Franklin, see our 5th Volume, pp. 17.
140. 549. 571.; and Vol. vi., p. 88.

J--G., THE EDITOR, and another Correspondent. No.

M. W. Try a weaker solution of pyrogallic; that is, make the ordinary 3-grain to the ounce
solution, and use one-third of that and one-third of plain water, and the results will probably
be what you desire. The bath will keep for a long time, if kept free from dust, &c.

The extent which Photography occupies in our present Number will, we are sure, excuse us, in
the eyes of several Correspondents. for the omission of their communications.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMEE'S BINOCULAR PERSPECTIVE PHOTOGRAPHS.--A full account of the mode of taking these extraordinary
Likenesses in "Smee on the Eye," just published, price 5s.

HORNE, THORNTHWAITE & WOOD, 123.

       *       *       *       *       *

GROSJEAN'S CELEBRATED TROWSERS, 16s. per Pair. 109. REGENT STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

SURPLICES.

GILBERT J. FRENCH, Bolton, Lancashire, has prepared his usual large Supply of SURPLICES, in
Anticipation of EASTER.

PARCELS delivered FREE at Railway Stations. 1854.