Transformer, Core. A transformer wound upon an enclosed core, such as the hedgehog transformer
(see Transformer, Hedgehog), or common induction coil.

548   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Transformer, Hedgehog. An induction coil transformer whose iron core is composed of a bundle
of iron wires, which after the wire windings are in place have their ends spread out to reduce
to some extent the reluctance of the circuit, which at the best is high, as the air acts as
the return circuit.

This transformer has a low degree of hysteresis; and its efficiency for very small loads or
for no load is superior to that of the closed magnetic circuit transformer.

Fig. 340. SWINBURNE'S HEDGEHOG TRANSFORMER.

Transformer, Multiple. A transformer connected in parallel with others between the two leads
of the primary circuit. The term refers to the connection only and not to any peculiarity of
the transformer itself.

Transformer, Oil. A transformer with oil insulation. The advantage of this insulation is that
if pierced it at once closes, so that no permanent injury ensues. It is a self-healing form
of insulation.

Transformer, Series. Transformers connected in series upon the primary circuits. The term,
like "multiple transformers," only applies to the connection, not to the transformer. Series
transformers are but little used.

Transformer, Shell. A transformer with its iron core entirely outside of and enclosing the
primary and secondary winding. It may be made by the use of outer iron wire windings as core.

Transformer, Welding. The transformer used for electric welding. (See Welding, Electric.) It
is a transformer with very long primary and exceedingly short and thick secondary. It is used
with the alternating current in the primary, and produces in the secondary circuit which includes
the bars to be welded a very low potential difference.

Owing to the very low resistance of the secondary circuit this low electro-motive force produces
a very strong current, which develops the requisite heat. The same type of transformer is used
for brazing and similar purposes.

549   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Transmitter. In general electric phraseology, any instrument which produces signals to be transmitted
through a line or circuit is a transmitter. Thus the Morse key in telegraphy or the Blake transmitter
in telephony are examples of such.

Transmitter, Carbon. A form of microphone used as a telephone transmitter. (See Carbon Telephone.)

Transposing. A method of laying metallic circuits for telephoning. The wires at short intervals
are crossed so that alternate sections lie on opposite sides of each other. It is done to avoid
induction.

Transverse Electro-motive Force. Electro-motive force in a substance in which electric displacement
is taking place, produced by a magnetic field. It is sometimes assigned as the cause of the
Hall effect, q. v.

Trimmer, Brush. A shears for cutting off evenly and squarely the ends of copper dynamo brushes.
The brushes when uneven from wear are removed from the brush holders, and their ends are sheared
off in the trimmer.

Trolley. A grooved metallic pulley or set of pulleys which runs along an active wire of a circuit,
a lead from which trolley goes to earth or connects with another wire, so that the trolley
takes current generally for operating a street car motor placed upon the circuit leading from
it; a rolling contact with an electric lead.

Trolleys are principally used on electric railroads, and are now universally of the sub-wire
system, being at the end of a pole which is inclined backward and forced upward by springs,
so as to press the trolley against the bottom of the wire. Thus the trolley does not increase
the sagging of the wire, but tends to push it up a little in its passage.

Trolley, Double. A trolley with two rollers or grooved wheels, placed side by side, and running
on two parallel leads of wire. It is adapted to systems employing through metallic trolley
lines with the motors in multiple arc, connecting or across the two leads.

Trolley Section. An unbroken or continuous section of trolley wire.

Trouvé's Solution. An acid exciting and depolarizing solution for a zinc-carbon battery. Its
formula is as follows: Water, 80 parts; pulverized potassium bichromate, 12 parts; concentrated
sulphuric acid, 36 parts; all parts by weight. The pulverized potassium bichromate is added
to the water, and the acid is added slowly with constant stirring. As much as 25 parts potassium
bichromate may be added to 100 parts of water. The heating produced by the acid and water dissolves
nearly all the potassium salt. Use cold.

550   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

True Contact Force. A species of electro-motive force whose existence is supposed to be proved
by the Peltier effect. The lowering in temperature of a contact of dissimilar metals is attributed
to a force that helps the current on its way if in the direction of thermo-current proper to
the junction and opposing it if in the reverse. The true contact force is taken to explain
this phenomenon; thermo-electric force cannot, as there is no heat or cold applied to the junction.

Trumpet, Electric. An apparatus consisting of a vibrating tongue, kept in motion by electricity
as in the buzzer, q. v., placed in the small end of a trumpet-shaped tube.

Trunking Switchboard. A telephone switchboard arranged in sections, which sections are connected
by trunk lines, through which trunk lines the desired connections are made.

Trunk Lines. In telephone distribution systems, the lines connecting different stations, or
different sections of a switch-board and used by anyone requiring such connections; one trunk
line answers for a number of subscribers.

Tube, Electric. A tube of glass around which is pasted a series of tinfoil circles, diamonds,
or little squares, or other form of interrupted conductor. The pieces generally are placed
in the line of a spiral. When a static discharge of electricity takes place along the conductor
a row of bright sparks is produced at the breaks in the conductor. These by reflection are
multiplied apparently, and a beautiful effect of intersecting or crossing spirals of sparks
is presented.

The experiment is in line with the luminous pane and lightning jar, and is used merely as a
demonstration, or lecture experiment.

Synonym--Luminous Tube.

Tubular Braid. A braid woven of tissue or worsted, and tubular or hollow. Its object is to
provide a covering which can be drawn over joints in covered wires. In making the joint the
ends of the wires are necessarily bared, and a short piece of tubular braid is used for covering
them. It is drawn by hand over the joint.

Turns. An expression applied to the convolutions of wire in a solenoid, electro-magnet, or
other apparatus or construction of that kind. A turn indicates a complete encircling of the
core or axis of the object. Thus a wire wound five times around a bar gives five turns.

While this is its primary meaning the term if compounded may refer to virtual turns. Thus an
ampere-turn means one ampere passing through one turn. But ten ampere-turns may mean ten amperes
passing through ten turns, five amperes passing through two turns, and so on. This use is analogous
to a dimension of length in a compound word, as foot-pound.

There may be a number of kinds of turns qualified by descriptive adjectives, as series-turns,
the turns of wire in a series circuit of a compound dynamo. In the same way there are shunt-turns.
If series ampere-turns or shunt ampere-turns are meant the word ampere should be included.

551   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Turns, Dead, of a Dynamo. The rotations of a dynamo armature while it is building itself up
or exciting itself. The expression is a bad one, as it is likely to be confounded with the
dead turns of armature wire.

Turns, Primary Ampere-. The ampere-turns in a primary circuit of an induction coil or transformer.
In an electric welding transformer, or in the transformer used in the alternating current system,
where efficiency is an important element, the ampere-turns in primary and secondary for an
efficiency of 100 per cent. should be equal. In the case of an experimental induction coil
other considerations outweigh that of mere efficiency. Insulation, including security from
piercing, and the production of as long a spark as possible, are, in these cases, the controlling
consideration.

Turns, Secondary Ampere-. The ampere-turns on the secondary circuit of an induction coil or
transformer. These depend on the path provided for the current. If of negligible inductance,
such as a number of incandescent lamps would provide, the ampere-turns should be equal to those
of the primary coil. (See Turns, Primary Ampere.)

Typewriter, Electric. A typewriter in which the work of printing or of pressing the type faces
against the paper, or printing ribbon, is done by electro-magnetic attraction. The keys close
electric circuits, throwing the electro-magnetic action into play. This involves the use of
electricity for what is ordinarily only a mechanical process. The strength of the impression,
however, is independent of the touch of the operator. It has not come into very extensive use.

Ultra-gaseous Matter. Gas so rarefied that its molecules do not collide or very rarely do so.

Experiments of very striking nature have been devised by Crookes and others to illustrate the
peculiar phenomena that this matter presents. The general lines of this work are similar to
the methods used in Geissler tube experiments, except that the vacua used are very much higher.

When the vacuum is increased so that but one-millionth of the original gas is left the radiant
state is reached. The molecules in their kinetic movements beat back and forth in straight
lines without colliding, or with very rare collisions. Their motions can be guided and rendered
visible by electrification. A tube or small glass bulb with platinum electrodes sealed in it,
is exhausted to the requisite degree and is hermetically sealed by melting the glass. The electrodes
are connected to the terminals of an induction coil or other source of high tension electrification.
The molecules which come in contact with a negatively electrified pole are repelled from it
in directions normal to its surface. They produce different phosphorescent or luminous effects
in their mutual collisions.

Thus if they are made to impinge upon glass, diamond or ruby, intense phosphorescence is produced.
A piece of platinum subjected to molecular bombardment is brought to white heat. A movable
body can be made to move under their effects. Two streams proceeding from one negative pole
repel each other. The stream of molecules can be drawn out of their course by a magnet.

The experiments are all done on a small scale in tubes and bulbs, resembling to a certain extent
Geissler tubes.

552   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Unbuilding. The loss of its charge or excitation by a self-exciting dynamo. It is the reverse
of building-up. The latter indicates the exciting of the field by the action of the machine
itself; the former the spontaneous loss of charge on open circuit or from other cause.

Underground Conductor. An electric conductor insulated and placed under the surface of the
earth, as distinguished from aerial conductors.

Underground Electric Subway. A subway for the enclosing of electric telegraph and other conductors
under the surface, generally in the line of streets, to do away with telegraph poles and aerial
lines of wire. Many systems have been devised. The general type includes tubes called ducts
in sets, called conduits, bedded in concrete or otherwise protected. Every two or three hundred
feet the sets lead into a cistern-like cavity called a manhole. The insulated wires or cables,
generally sheathed with a lead alloy are introduced into the tubes through the man-holes. A
rope is first fed through the tube. To do this short rods which screw together are generally
employed. One by one they are introduced, and each end one is screwed to the series of rods
already in the duct. When the end of the duct is reached the rope is fastened to the last rod,
and the rods are then drawn through, unscrewed one by one and removed, the rope following them.
By means of the rope a windlass or capstan may be applied to draw the cable into the duct.
At least at every second man-hole the cables have to be spliced.

Each cable may contain a large number of conductors of small size for telephoning, or a smaller
number for electric light and power. The tendency is now to separate the different classes
of wires in important lines, placing the heavier wires on one side of the street and the telephone
and telegraph wires on the other. This of course necessitates two separate conduits.

The advantage of underground distribution affects not only the appearance of streets in doing
away with unsightly telegraph poles, but it also removes an element of danger at fires. Aerial
wires interfere greatly with the handling of ladders at fires, and expose the firemen who attempt
to cut them to danger to their lives from shock.

533   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Unidirectional. adj. Having one direction as a "unidirectional current" or "unidirectional
leak." The term is descriptive, and applicable to many cases.

Uniform. adj. Unvarying; as a uniform potential difference, uniform current or conductor of
uniform resistance per unit of length. The term is descriptive, and its application and meaning
are obvious.

Uniform Field of Force. A field of evenly distributed force; one in which the number of lines
of force per unit of area of any equipotential surface is the same.

Unipolar. adj. Strictly speaking this term means having only one pole, and is applied to magnets,
armatures and the like. In its use a solecism is involved, for there is no such condition possible
as unipolar magnetism or distribution of magnetism. An example of its use is shown in unipolar
magnets. (See Magnet, Unipolar.)

Unipolar Armature. An armature of a unipolar dynamo; an armature whose windings continuously
cut the lines of force about the one pole, and hence whose polarity is unchanged in its rotation.

Unipolar Current Induction. Current induction produced by moving a conductor through a magnetic
field of force so that it always cuts the lines in similar relation to itself. Thus it produces
a constant current through its own circuit, if a closed one, and no commutator is required.
As this case always in practice amounts to the cutting of lines of force in the neighborhood
of a single pole the term unipolar is employed to designate the action.

The simplest representation of unipolar induction is the rotating of a conductor around the
end of a bar magnet, its axis of rotation corresponding with the axis of the magnet.

Unipolar Dynamo. A dynamo in which one part of the conductor slides on or around the magnet,
so as always to cut lines of force near the same pole of the magnet.

Unit. A directly or indirectly conventional and arbitrary quantity, in terms of which measurements
of things with dimensions expressible in the chosen units are executed.

Thus for length the c. g. s. unit is the centimeter; the B. E. unit is the foot.

554   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Unit, Absolute. A unit based on the three fundamental units of length, mass and time. These
units are the centimeter, gram and second. Each one in itself may be termed a fundamental absolute
unit. The system of such units is termed the centimeter-gram-second system.

Unit, Angle. A factor or datum in angular velocity, q. v. It is the angle subtended by a portion
of the circumference equal in length to the radius of the circle. It is equal very nearly to
57.29578° or 57° 17' 44.8".

Unit, B. A. This term, while logically applicable to any of the British Association units,
is often restricted to the ohm as formerly defined by the British Association, the B. A. Unit
of Resistance, q. v.

Unit, Fundamental. The three units of length, mass and time, the centimeter, gram and second,
are termed fundamental units. On them is based the absolute system of units, and on multiples
of them the practical system of units.

Unit Jar. A Leyden jar which is used as a unit of measure of charge.

It consists of a Leyden jar about 4 inches long and 3/4 inch diameter, with about 6 square
inches of its outer and the same of its inner surface coated with tinfoil. It is placed between
a source of electricity and a larger jar or battery of jars which is to be charged. The inner
coating connects with the machine; the outer coating with the jars to be charged. Short conductors
terminating in knobs connect with inner and outer coatings, and the knobs are adjusted at any
desired distance apart.

By the charging operation the large jar or battery of jars receives a charge by induction,
and the charge of the small jar is at first equal to this quantity. After a while a spark passes
from knob to knob, discharging the small jar. This indicates the reception by the large jars
of the quantity of electricity represented by the charge of the small jar. The charging goes
on, and for every spark approximately the same quantity of electricity is received by the larger
jars.

The sparking distance m is directly proportional to the quantity of electricity, and inversely
proportional to the area of coated surface, or is proportional to the potential difference
of the two coats. This is only true for short sparking distance, hence for accuracy the knobs
should be adjusted not too far from each other.

555   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Unit of Supply. A commercial unit for the sale of electric energy, as defined provisionally
by the English Board of Trade; 1,000 amperes flowing for one hour under an E. M. F. of 1 volt;
3,600,000 volt-coulombs, or 1,000 watt-hours, are its equivalent. It is equal to 1000/746 =
1.34 electric horse power.

Synonym--Board of Trade Unit.

Units, Circular. A system of units of cross-sectional area, designed especially for use in
describing wire conductors. The cross-sectional area of such is universally a circle, and the
areas of two wires of different sizes vary with the square of their radii or diameters. Hence
if the area of a circle of known diameter is determined it may be used as a unit for the dimensions
of other circles. Any other circle will have an area proportioned to the area of the unit circle,
as the squares of the diameters are to each other.

In practise the commonest circular unit is the circular mil. This is the area of a circle one
mil, 1/1000 inch, in diameter and is equal to .0000007854 square inch. A wire two mils in diameter
has an area of four circular mils; one ten mils in diameter has an area of one hundred circular
mils.

Thus if the resistance of a given length of wire 1 mil in diameter is stated, the corresponding
resistance of the same length of wire of the same material, but of other diameter, is given
by dividing the first wire's resistance by the square of the diameter in mils of the wire in
question.

As it is a basic unit, most conveniently applied by multiplication, the smaller units are used;
these are the circular mil, and circular millimeter.

Units, Derived. Units derived by compounding or other processes, from the three fundamental
units. Such are the units of area, volume, energy and work, momentum and electric units generally.
In some cases the dimensions of the derived unit may reduce to those of a simple unit as inductance
reduces to length, but the unit, as deduced from the fundamental ones, is still a derived unit.

Units, Practical. A system of units employed in practical computation. The absolute units,
especially in electricity, have been found too large or too small, and the attempt to make
them more convenient has resulted in this system. It is based on exactly the same considerations
as the absolute system of units, except that multiples of the original fundamental units of
length, mass, and time have been taken as the base of the new system. These basic units are
multiples of the fundamental units. They are the following: The unit of length is 1E9 centimeters;
the unit of mass is 1E-11 gram; the unit of time remains 1 second.

While this has conduced to convenience in giving better sized units, micro- and mega-units
and other multiples or fractions have to be used. The following are the principal practical
electric units:

                             Electrostatic     Electromagnetic
                             C. G. S Units.    C. G. S. Units.
Intensity-Ampere   equal to     3E9               1E-1
Quantity-Coulomb     "          3E9               1E-1
Potential-Volt       "         (1/3)* E-2         1E8
Resistance-Ohm       "         (1/9)* E-11        1E9
Capacity-Farad       "         9E11               1E-9

556   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Universal Battery System. A term in telegraphy. If several equal and high resistance telegraphic
circuits are connected in parallel with each other from terminal to terminal of a battery of
comparatively low resistance each circuit will receive the same current, and of practically
the same strength as if only one circuit was connected. This is termed the universal battery
system. It is a practical corollary of Ohm's law. The battery being of very low resistance
compared to the lines the joining of several lines in parallel practically diminishes the total
resistance of the circuit in proportion to their own number. Thus suppose a battery of ten
ohms resistance and ten volts E. M. F. is working a single line of one hundred ohms resistance.
The total resistance of the circuit is then one hundred and ten ohms. The total current of
the circuit, all of which is received by the one line is 10/110 = .09 ampere, or 90 milliamperes.
Now suppose that a second line of identical resistance is connected to the battery in parallel
with the first. This reduces the external resistance to fifty ohms, giving a total resistance
of the circuit of sixty ohms. The total current of the circuit, all of which is received by
the two lines in equal parts, is 10/60 = .166 amperes. But this is equally divided between
two lines, so that each one receives .083 ampere or 83 milliamperes; practically the same current
as that given by the same battery to the single line. It will be seen that high line resistance
and low battery resistance, relatively speaking, are required for the system. For this reason
the storage battery is particularly available. The rule is that the resistance of the battery
shall be less than the combined resistance of all the circuits worked by it.

Unmarked End. The south-seeking pole of a magnet, so called because the other end, called the
marked end, is usually marked with a scratch or notch by the maker, while the south pole is
unmarked.

V. (a) Symbol for velocity.

(b) Symbol or abbreviation for volume.

(c) Symbol or abbreviation for volt.

557   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

V. A. Symbol or abbreviation for voltaic alternatives, q. v.

Vacuum. A space destitute of any substance. The great pervading substance is in general sense
the atmosphere. It is the gaseous mixture which surrounds and envelopes the earth and its inhabitants.
It consists of a simple mixture of oxygen, 1 part, nitrogen, 4 parts, with 4 to 6 volumes of
carbonic acid gas in 10,000 volumes of air, or about one cubic inch to one cubic foot. It presses
with a force of about 14.7 lbs. per square inch under the influence of the force of gravity.
The term vacuum in practise refers to any space from which air has been removed. It may be
produced chemically. Air may be displaced by carbonic acid gas and the latter may be absorbed
by caustic alkali or other chemical. The air may be expelled and the space may be filled with
steam which is condensed to produce the vacuum. Of course in all cases the space must be included
in an hermetically sealed vessel, such as the bulb of an incandescent lamp. But the universal
method of producing a vacuum is by air pumps. An absolute vacuum means the entire absence of
gas or air, something almost impossible to produce. A high vacuum is sometimes understood to
mean one in which the path of the molecules is equal in length to the diameter of the containing
vessels, as in Crookes' Radiometer and other apparatus for illustrating the radiant condition
of matter. The air left after exhaustion is termed residual air or residual atmosphere.

Vacuum, Absolute. A space free of all material substance. It is doubtful whether an absolute
vacuum has ever been produced.

Vacuum, High. An approximate vacuum, so nearly perfect that the molecules of the residual gas
in their kinetic motions rarely collide, and beat back and forth between the walls of the containing
vessel, or between any solid object contained in the vessel and the walls of the vessel. The
gas in such a vacuum is in the radiant or ultra-gaseous state. (See Ultra-gaseous Matter.)

Vacuum, Low. A vacuum inferior to a high vacuum; a vacuum in which the molecules collide with
each other and do not move directly from side to side of the containing vessel.

Vacuum, Partial. A space partially exhausted of air so as to contain less than an equal volume
of the surrounding atmosphere. It really should come below a low vacuum, but is often treated
as synonymous therewith.

Vacuum, Torricellian. The vacuum existing above the mercurial column in a barometer tube. The
principle of this vacuum is applied in the Geissler and other air pumps. (See Pump, Geissler--Pump,
Sprengel--Pump, Swinburne.)

558   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Valency. The relative power of replacing hydrogen or combining therewith possessed by different
elements; the number of atomic bonds belonging to any element. Thus oxygen has a twofold valency,
is bivalent or is a dyad, and combines with two atoms of hydrogen because the latter has a
unitary atomicity, is monovalent or is a monad.

Valve, Electrically Controlled. A valve which is moved by or whose movements are regulated
by electricity.

In the block system of railroad signaling the semaphores are worked by weights and pneumatic
cylinders and pistons. The valves for admitting or releasing the compressed air are operated
by coil and plunger mechanism. There are many other instances of the control of valves by the
electric current.

Vapor Globe. A protecting glass globe surrounding an incandescent lamp, when the lamp is to
be used in an atmosphere of explosive vapor, as in mines or similar places; or when in a place
where it is exposed to dripping water which would break the hot lamp bulb if it fell upon it.

Variable Period. The period of adjustment when a current is started through a conductor of
some capacity. It is the period of duration of the variable state, q. v., in a conductor. As
indicated in the next definition in a cable of high electrostatic capacity a variable period
of nearly two minutes may exist. This indicates the retardation in signaling to be anticipated
in cables and other lines of high capacity.

Variable State. When an electric circuit is closed the current starts through the conductor
with its full strength from the point of closure, and advances with a species of wave front
so that some time elapses before it attains its full strength in the most distant parts of
the conductor, owing to its having to charge the conductor to its full capacity at the given
potential. The state of the line while the current thus varies is called the variable state.

A long telegraph line when a message is being transmitted may be always in the variable state.
The current at the receiving end may never attain its full strength.

In the case of such a conductor as the Atlantic cable, 108 seconds would be required for a
current to attain 9/10 of its full strength at the distant end, and but 1/5 second to attain
1/100 of its final value. During the period of increase of current the variable state exists.

Variation of the Compass. The declination of the magnetic needle. (See Elements, Magnetic.)
As the declination is subject to daily, annual and secular variations, it is unfortunate that
this term is synonymous with declination. Thus the variation of the compass means its declination,
while there is also the variation of the declination and of other elements. The term variation
of the compass is more colloquial than the more definite expression "declination," or "magnetic
declination."

559   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Variometer. An apparatus used in determining the relative values of the horizontal component
of the earth's magnetic field in different places.

Varley's Condenser. A static condenser whose conducting surfaces are platinum electrodes immersed
in dilute sulphuric acid. When the potential difference is 1/50th that of a Daniell's cell,
two square inches of platinum have a capacity equal to that of an air condenser whose plates
have an area of 80,000,000 square inches, and separated 1/8th of an inch from each other. As
the E. M. F. increases the capacity also increases.

Varley's Resistances. Variable resistances formed of discs of carbonized cloth, q. v., piled
up, and pressed together more or less firmly to vary the resistance as desired.

Varnish. A glossy transparent coating of the nature of paint, applied as a protective, or ornamental
coating to objects.

Varnish, Electric. Alcoholic or etherial varnishes are the best for electrical apparatus. They
dry quickly and perfectly, and tend to form surfaces unfavorable to the hygroscopic collection
of water. Sealing wax dissolved in alcohol, or shellac dissolved in the same solvent are used
for electrical apparatus, although the first is rather a lacquer than a varnish. Etherial solution
of gum-copal is used to agglomerate coils of wire. It is well to bake varnished objects to
harden the coating.

Varnish, Red. A solution of sealing wax in 90 per cent. alcohol. It is best made thin and applied
in several coats, each coat being allowed to dry perfectly before the next is applied. It is
often seen on Leyden jars. It is a protector from surface leakage.

Vat. A vessel for chemical or other solutions. A depositing vat is one in which a plating solution
is worked, for the deposition of electroplate upon articles immersed in the liquid, and electrolyzed
by an electric current.

Velocity. The rate of motion of a body. It is usually expressed in distance traversed per second
of time. The absolute unit is one centimeter per second or kine. The foot per second is very
largely used also.

The dimensions of velocity are length (L) divided by time (T) or L/T.

Velocity, Angular. Velocity in a circle defined by the unit angle, or the angle which subtends
a circular arc equal in length to itself. The radius of the circle traversed by the moving
body does not enter into this definition, as the real velocity of the object is not stated.
If its angular velocity and the radius of the path it travels are given its actual velocity
can be deduced.

560   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Velocity of Signaling. The speed of transmission of electric signals is affected by the nature
of the line, as regards its static capacity, and by the delicacy of the receiving instruments,
which may need a more or less strong current to be affected. Thus of an original current one
per cent. may suffice to operate a sensitive instrument. This might give almost the velocity
of light, while if the instrument would only respond to the full current nearly two minutes
(see Variable State) might be required for the production of a signal.

Velocity Ratio. A term applied to the ratios existing between the electrostatic and electro-magnetic
units. If we take as numerators the dimensions of the different qualities in the electrostatic
system, and their dimensions in the electro-magnetic system as denominators, the fractions
thus obtained reduce to expressions containing only velocity or V in some form. Thus if we
divide the dimensions of the electrostatic quantity by the dimensions of electro-magnetic quantity
the quotient is simply V or velocity. A like division for potential, electrostatic and electro-magnetic
gives (1/V), and so on.

The value of the velocity ratio is very nearly 3E10 (sometimes given as 2.98E10) centimeters
per second. This is almost exactly that of light (2.9992E10 centimeters per second.) This is
one of the proofs of Clerk Maxwell's magnetic theory of light. (See Maxwell's Theory of Light.)

Ventilation of Armature. In a dynamo or motor ventilation of the armature is often provided
for by apertures through it in order to prevent heating. This heating is caused by Foucault
currents. By proper disposition of the interior of the armature with properly disposed vanes
and orifices an action like that of a fan blower can be produced, which by creating a current
of air cools the machine very efficiently.

Verticity, Poles of. Points upon the earth's surface where the horizontal component of magnetic
force disappears, leaving only the vertical component active. The term is derived from the
verticity of the dipping needle when over either of them.

561   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Vibration Period. In electrical resonance the period of a vibration in an electrical resonator.
The length of this period indicates the quality of the resonator in responding to electrical
oscillations by sympathetic vibration. For conductors of small resistance the period is thus
calculated. Let T be the period of one-half a full vibration; L the absolute coefficient of
self-induction expressed in centimeters or in henries X 10-9; C the electrostatic capacity
of the terminals, also expressed in the same unit; v the velocity of light in centimeters per
second. Then we have the formula

  T = PI * SquareRoot( L * C ) / v

Vibration, Sympathetic. A vibration in a cord or other body susceptible of elastic vibration
produced by the vibrations of exactly the same period in a neighboring vibrating body. Thus
if two tuning forks are tuned to precisely the same pitch, and are placed near each other,
if one is sounded it will start the other into vibration by sympathy.

In electricity its application is found in electric resonance experiments. The resonator has
a definite period of electric resonance, and is made to give a spark by the exciter of identical
period. This is by what may be called electric sympathetic vibration, and is exactly analogous
to the action of the tuning forks upon each other.

