

  As when th' industrious windmill vainly yearns
    To pause, and scratch its swallow-haunted head,
  Yet at the wind's relentless urging turns
    Its flying arms in wild appeal outspread;
  So am I vex'd by vain desire, that burns
    These barren places whence the hair hath fled,
  To wander far amid the woodland ferns,
    Where dewdrops shine along the gossamer thread;
  Where its own sunlight on the reddening leaf
    Sleeps, when soft mists have swathed the sunless tree,

  Or where the innumerous billows merrily dance;
  Yet must I busily dissemble grief
  Whirl'd in the pitiless round of circumstance,
    Rigid with trained respectability.

       *        *        *        *        *

New Way out of a Wager.

  DESMOND, Theosophist Colonel, now thinks better
    Of his rash vow his gift to "demonstrate,"
  Receiving a "precipitated letter"
    Warning him not to be--precipitate.
  Many a Betting Man who'd hedge or tack
  Must wish he had Mahatmas at his back.

       *        *        *        *        *

The Beggar's Petition.

(New Version.)

  Life must not be lost, Sir, with lightness,
    To labour for life gives me pain;
  My exchequer's affected with tightness,
  But begging's the pink of politeness,
    Like Scribes, Sir, "I beg--to remain!" *

* And didn't CHARLES LAMB, in his most delightful essay On the Decay of Beggars, deplore their
gradual disappearance?

       *       *       *       *       *

DOCTOR LAURIE.

Song by a Scotch Student. AIR--"Annie Laurie."

["According to Dr. LAURIE, of Edinburgh University, the "teaching of Greek, so far as it is
attempted in our secondary schools, is positively harmful."--Daily News.]

  Pedagogue brays are bonnie,
    When Greek they'd fain taboo;
  And 'tis here that Doctor LAURIE
    Gi'es utterance strictly true,
    Gi'es utterance strictly true,
    Which ne'er forgot should be,
  And for bonnie Doctor LAURIE,
    A Scottish boy would dee.

  Auld HOMER is a humbug,
    ANACREON is an ass;
  Sumphs scrape enoo o' baith o' them,
    The "Little-go" to pass,
    The Little-go to pass--
    It affects them "harmfullee."
  Ah! but bonnie Doctor LAURIE,
    He kens Greek's a' my ee!

  Like diplomas fause and lying,
    Are "passes" such as this.
  Why should Scotch lads sit sighing
    O'er the Anabasis?--
    O'er the Anabasis?
    XENOPHON's fiddle-de-dee?
  Oh, for bonnie Doctor LAURIE,
  I'd shout with three times three!

       *        *        *        *        *

UNDER-LYNE'D.--Said Sir W. VERNON HARCOURT, at Ashton-under-Lyne, "I am very glad to be enabled
to come here from the hospitable roof of Mr. RUPERT MASON." ... And again, "I have come here
also from the roof of Mr. MATHER." Quite a Sir WILLIAM ROOFUS! But what was he doing on the
roof? Was there a tile off in each case? Something wrong with the first house that a Mason
couldn't set right? And with the second, did Sir ROOFUS sing, "Oh dear, what can the Mather
be?" And why the invidious distinction between the two roofs? The first being hospitable, and
the second having no pleasant epithet to recommend it.

       *        *        *        *        *

PROPOSED NEW TITLE FOR LORD GR-M-TH-RPE.--Baron (H)ALTER EGO.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS RE-SUNG;

OR, MISS BOWDLER AT THE MUSIC HALLS.

INTRODUCTORY.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

In these progressive days earnest reformers, especially those of the London County Council
type, yearn to chasten and æstheticise the Muse of the Music Hall, who is perhaps the only
really popular Muse of the period. My name gives me a sort of hereditary right to take exceptional
interest in such matters, though indeed my respected, and respectable, ancestor is not in all
things the model of his more catholic and cosmopolitan descendant. The McDougall regimen would
doubtless be a little too drastic. To improve the Music-hall Song off the face of the earth,
is an attempt which could only suggest itself to puritan fanaticism in its most arbitrary administrative
form. The proletariat will not "willingly let die" the only Muse whose ministrations really
"come home to its business and its bosom." No, Sir, the People's Pegasus cannot, must not be
ruthlessly consigned to the knackers. But may it not be gently bitted, discreetly bridled,
and taught to trot or amble with park-hack paces in the harness of Respectability?

It is in this hope and faith that the following drawing-room versions of
some of "the most popular Comic (and Sentimental) Songs of the Day" have
been attempted by
    Your respectful admirer,
        VIRGINIA BOWDLER.

To the Respectable Citizen, the Moral Matron, and the Young Person, with a love of larkiness
and lilt, but a distrust of politics, pugilism, and deep potations, the following eclectic
adaptation of this prodigiously popular ballad may perhaps be not altogether unwelcome.

No. I.--TWO LOVELY BROWN EYES,

AIR--"Two Lovely Black Eyes".

  Strolling one Sunday near Bethnal Green,
  This "æsthete" you might have seen,
  Surveying "the People" with scornful spleen
      When, oh, what a surprise!
  An Art Exhibition I chanced to see,
  Therein I entered right speed-i-lee,
  When--on a canvas--there shone on me
      Two lovely brown eyes!

             Chorus.

          Two lovely brown eyes!
          Oh, what a surprise!
    Smiling right down on a dingy throng,
          Two lovely brown eyes!

  From a canvas of "High Art" sort they shone,
  Their owner was cinctured with classic zone,
  She was spare of flesh, she was big in bone,
      Oh, what a surprise!
    Drawing the gaze of an East-End crowd,
          Two lovely brown eyes!

  My own regard, as I loitered there,
  Fastened on one proletariat pair,
  With finery frowsy, and oily hair;
      Oh, what a surprise!
  SALLIE and BILL your calm beauty could thrill;
          Two lovely brown eyes!

  Art (so I argue) for all is best,
  Here, in the East, on the Day of Rest,
  Lo! my pet theory put to the test!
      Oh, what a surprise!

  The picture was one of BURNE-JONES'S best;
  "SALLIE" was snub-nosed and showily drest;
  I sought her visage in querulous quest,
      When oh, what a surprise!
  There on each side of a salient "snub,"
          Two lovely brown eyes:

  Brown? Ah, yes! But, alack! alack!
  The brown was fringed with a halo of black,
  Fruit, it was plain of some marital thwack,
      Oh, what a surprise!
  "She," sighed the girl, "has a beautiful chump,
  Though she do seem to 'ave got the 'ump.
  Something seemed telling that man he was wrong,
          Two lovely brown eyes!

  Say, was it fancy? I saw a flush
  O'er the coarse cheeks of that Coster rush,
  "Stash it!" he murmured. A Coster blush?
      Oh, what a surprise!
  SALLIE,--she clung to his muscular arm--
  With a look half  lovingness, half alarm,
  He stooped and--kissed her!
  Was it your influence, gentle yet strong,
          Two lovely brown eyes?

  "BILL," whispered she, "you may bet two d
  She never nagged at 'er bloke--like me--
    He never wheeled a whelk-barrer, d'yer see?
          Oh, what a surprise!
    Parties with cultcher and piles o'cash
    Ain't no temptation to row or bash,
    But--who's to tell but she's jilted 'er mash--
          Miss Lovely Brown Heyes?"

              Chorus.

          Two lovely brown eyes!
          Oh, what a surprise!
  Twinkled like stars 'twixt a tear and a frown,
          Two lovely brown eyes.

  The moral you've caught I can hardly doubt;
  On Art versus Morals men sneer or shout,
  Leave it to OSCAR to fight that out,
      If you would be wise.
  Better, far better, it is to let
  Beautiful things work their way--you bet!
  Art-loving-Man is less likely to black
          Two lovely brown eyes!

       *       *       *       *       *

MEN OF THE PAST.

(COMPILED BY THE MAN OF THE PRESENT.)

CROMWELL.--An English Brewer. Uncertain about his aspirates. Distinctly vulgar. Face disfigured
by warts.

PETER THE GREAT.--Quite a common sort of Russian. Man with coarse tastes. Came to England to
learn ship-building. Fond of low society; in fact, the type of an enterprising cad.

WASHINGTON.--Entirely provincial English rebel, who caused considerable trouble in America.
Family fair, but not to be traced beyond three generations. Used to eat peas with his knife.

HANNIBAL.--Brutal barbarian. Feeblest ideas of stategy. Went the wrong way over the Alps. Given
to oaths from childhood up. Quite a classical nobody.

BUONAPARTE.--A Corsican Parvenu.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Garrick School.

  School for young actors is the Garrick Playhouse.
  Upon the road to fame a quarter-way house
  For IRVING fils. And likewise note we there
  The heir apparent of a parent HARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DIO, age!" of which the classic American translation is, "Do tell!"

       *       *       *       *       *

JOURNAL OF A ROLLING STONE.

NINTH ENTRY.

Curious thing, now that I am installed as a pupil in FIBBINS'S Chambers in Waste Paper Buildings,
Temple, how few new briefs I am given to read. Usual routine is for DICK FIBBINS to hand me
a brief on which the dust of ages has collected, and to leave me to "get up the law about it";
but when he (FIBBINS) comes back from his day's business in Court, about 4·30 P.M., he doesn't
seem to care a bit to know what the law is. Seems tired, and prefers to gossip and smoke; so
I do the same, or "follow on the same side," as he expresses it.

"It strikes me forcibly," I begin, "that the Plaintiff, SMITHERS, in that running-down case
you asked me to read to-day, hasn't got the ghost of a chance. Why, in Blatherson v. Snipe,
the Court ruled--"

"Tried the lawn-tennis in the gardens yet?" FIBBINS interrupts, in the rudest possible manner.

"No," I reply, "I was speaking of the Court, not lawn-tennis courts." (One for FIBBINS, I think.)
"All  the Judges held in Blatherson v. Snipe, that--"

"Oh, did they?" he interrupts again: "doosid interesting. Was I for plaintiff or defendant?"

"Plaintiff, SMITHERS. A running-down case."

"Wish it had been a running-up case--a case of running-up the fees," he laughs. Then, resuming
a more professional style, "You see, I've had such multitudes of cases since then, that I've
forgotten the precise details. But you write out your own Opinion--not to-day; tomorrow will
do. Then I'll see what it's like. Now let's go a trot down the Strand."

Another circumstance that strikes me as remarkable, is the frequency with which I hear the
Impressive Clerk (in the little room next to mine) requesting persons who have called to "settle
up that other little matter." Then the strange voice laughs, and says--"Oh, your Governor can
wait." "No, he can't,"--it's  the Clerk who says this--"it's  been going on for  three years,
now." "Well," chimes in the unknown, "let it go a bit longer. When'll your Governor have settled
those pleadings?" "When  your people settle about the five guineas, and not before," replies
the Impressive Clerk in his best Parliamentary debating style. Then follows a long wrangle,
not on law, but on finance, which never--as far as I can judge--ends in the Clerk getting his
way, and his money.

Astonishing event happens. A real live new brief comes in! Impressive Clerk--who looks like
a Prime Minister in reduced circumstances--brings it to FIBBINS when I am in the room. More
impressive than ever. "From ROGERS, in Chancery Lane--an excellent firm, Sir," he says. Poor
FIBBINS tries, ineffectually, to conceal his delight, and his eye turns instinctively to the
place where the fee is marked.

"Six guas" (legal slang for guineas) "for an Opinion, not bad," he comments, rubbing his hands.
FIBBINS dusts a corner of his desk, and lays it down there.

I am given this precious brief, and am asked to write a "draft Opinion" about it! "Just to
try your hand," says FIBBINS, who does not wish me to be conceited. "Then I'll write my own
afterwards," he adds.

I make a very elaborate commentary, quoting from innumerable parallel cases in English, American,
and Roman law, and, after giving it to DICK FIBBINS to read, I don't see it again.

But, a few afternoons later, when Impressive Clerk happens to be out, a knock comes. Nobody
in. At last, go myself (Query--infra  dig.?) and open door.

"Here!" says a juvenile, who apparently mistakes me for the Clerk, and rudely chucks some papers
to me, which hit me in the chest, "give these to your Governor. What a time you take answering
a knock! Having a nap, hay? Take care old FIBBINS don't catch you at it, that's all!" Juvenile
disappears downstairs, whistling, before I can think of a suitable rejoinder.

Open the papers. The same brief returned with request to "draw up a Statement of Claim,"--and
my "Opinion" inside! It looks as if DICK sent these clients of his my valuable advice, pretending
that it was his own!

My learned "leader," when he comes in, treats affair very coolly.

"Oh, did I send your 'Opinion' to them as well as mine? What an ass I am! I wonder what they
thought of it?"

I also wonder. In looking over the returned brief just now, however, I certainly did not come
across the "Opinion," manufactured by FIBBINS himself, of which that learned Counsel spoke.
And I have no second chance of examining it, as he is careful to take "all the documents in
the case" (a phrase of the Impressive Clerk's) home with him, for what he calls re-perusal.

The conviction that it was my Opinion, and mine alone, which FIBBINS dispatched, probably out
of sheer laziness, to ROGERS & CO., Solicitors, Chancery Lane, is one that I still retain.
But it is FIBBINS who retains the fee!

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE CLOSE OF THE SUMMER.

(By one who idled. To his Lady-help.)

  I am back at my work, which is far from exciting
    After nothing to do for a month at a time,
  So I am not astonished to find myself writing
    To you, dear MELENDA, and writing in rhyme.
  In my rooms very often the scent of the heather
    Brings back with it sweet recollections, and so
  I think of the days when we idled together,
    Far away in the country a fortnight ago.

  Yes, the two afternoons when, although we were sorry
    That it rained, we went out as to do we had vowed,
  And the wonderful echo we found in a quarry
    That took what we whispered and said it aloud.
  Whilst we wandered through fern-laden hedges and talked, it
    So happened a dragon-fly flew by your side.
  You remember, I'm sure, how you laughed as I stalked it,
    And how it seemed hurt, as it finally died.

  Then I think of our pic-nic. The sunshine came glinting,
    And we thought that the summer had come--come to stay.
  We did not walk too fast, you were constantly hinting
    You were really afraid we were losing our way.
  I seemed to be catching two glimpses of heaven,
    As I gazed at the sky and kept looking at you;
  For the party that started by being just seven
    Had a curious habit of shrinking to two.

  Why, that's quite sentimental. It isn't the fashion
    To write of such things in so high flown a style.
  Yet maybe I'm entitled to so much of passion
    As to say that you won me outright with your smile.
  Though a merciless fate may not let it befall so,
    For we know not at all what there may be in store,
  Yet next year, if you're down there--and I am there also,
    Shall we do what we did in the summer before?

       *       *       *       *       *

"TO ERR IS HUMAN."--"Even I am not always infallible," observed Mr. P., on noticing that, in
the dialogue under a picture, last week, the spelling of "cover-coat" for "covert-coat" had
escaped his eagle eye. Just as he was wondering to himself how such things could be, his other
and eagler eye caught this line in the correspondence, per "Dalziel," from Chicago, in the
Times for Sept. 23:--"Great Britain has chosen a sight for her buildings at the World's Fair."
If "taken" had been substituted for "chosen," the mistake might have borne a satirical meaning.
No doubt Great Britain has not made any error as to the site she has selected, from any point
of view.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEM. IN COLOURS.

  Man's life is in two colours, simply told:
  Green while you're young, and grey when you are old.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESTIC COOKERY.--(For a future New Edition of "Mrs. Glasse-with-care")--It will contain suggestions
for new dishes, to be arranged according to grammatical divisions of gender and number, as
"case" already exists. A specimen of the first will be Une Femme-lette, a female companion
dish to Un 'Ommelet. Another example proposed is La Petite Marmite and Le Petit Pa'mite, two
dishes most suitable for a very small family party; say of dwarf Troglodytes. "Number" of dishes
must always be "a party question;" though at the same time politics will be rigidly excluded
from the new publication.