"It's no good!" she cried. "It's no good. I'm a girl. Girls can never do anything! A man can
do all sorts of things; but, just because she is a girl, a girl can't do one of them!"

She was watching him all the time she was speaking, and only half realised that her indignation
was warmly simulated in order to produce an effect upon him and stiffen a wavering determination.
For a moment Gaga did not speak. He was turning the matter over in his mind, and Sally saw
the changes of opinion that passed across his face. Weakness, submission, obstinacy, bewilderment
were all to be observed. Above all, weakness; but a weakness that could be diverted into defiance
through dread of her own contempt. The moment was desperate. Tears sprang to Sally's eyes.
She became tense with chagrin and stubbornness. A gesture would have swept her wineglass to
the floor.

"Never mind!" she cried, savagely, now really moved to anger and despair. "You see how it is!
I always knew it wouldn't be any good. Knew it! Oh, I ought to have...."

Gaga was roused. His voice, when he spoke, was strangled.

"Don't be silly!" he cried. "We'll do it ... er ... we'll ... somehow we'll do it." Sally waited,
her anger cooling, a hope rising once again in her breast. Cruel knowledge of him surged into
her thoughts. At last the determination she desired came from Gaga. He said, in a grim tone:
"She needn't know. We won't tell her."

Sally's eyes closed for a moment. As if she had willed this, she had attained her end. No longer
was there to be any doubt. They had an understanding. They were going to do something together
which must be kept secret between themselves. She did not make even a tactical display of unwillingness.
She too greatly desired the end to endanger (though it should be to confirm) her aim by any
further display of finesse. It was enough. She was hot in her glimpse of the triumph she had
secured. She would be able to stay. The rest of their evening was now unimportant, because
they had need only to speak of details, and of matters unconnected with the plan.

xiv

Upon the day following this dinner and momentous conversation, Sally was working listlessly
amid the hum of girls' chatter, which proceeded unchecked while Miss Summers was out of the
room, when she had a singular knowledge of something in store. She was struck almost by fear.
Quickly she looked up, and across at Rose Anstey, and beyond Rose to the door of Madam's room.
Miss Summers stood in the doorway, smiling, and beckoning to Sally. Smiling--so it could not
be anything.... Madam wanted Sally; but Madam would not tell Miss Summers.... Had she found
out about Gaga? Sally's heart was like lead. But Miss Summers was smiling kindly and significantly,
which she would not have done if she had thought the interview promised to be unpleasant. Besides,
Gaga had said Miss Summers called Sally her best worker. It was nevertheless a nervous girl
who went into the room, heard the door close behind her, and found herself alone with Madam.

The room was that tawny one in which Sally had first seen Madame Gala. It was lighted by one
large window and it was not really a large room, although it contained Madam's enormous table
and a bureau and a number of shelves upon which reference books stood. It was very quiet and
cool in summer, and warm in winter; and Madam sat at her writing desk in a stylish costume
unconcealed by any overall. Seated, she did not look so terrifyingly tall; but her faded eyes
had still that piercing scrutiny which had disturbed Sally at the first encounter. Her face
was lined; her hair bleached and brittle; but the long thin nose, and hard thin mouth, and
parched thin cheeks all gave to her glance a chilling quality hard to endure. Her hands were
those of a skeleton: all the bones could be seen white under the cream skin. Sally, abashed
and full of flutterings of secret guilt, stood before her as she might have stood before one
omniscient; but her brain was not abashed, and her hearing was as strained as her alert wits.
So the two hard personalities encountered. Presently Madam smiled--a smile that was tortured,
like Gaga's, and showed anæmic gums but a row of astonishingly good teeth.

"Sally," she said. "Sit down there, will you. Now, you've been here nearly a year. D'you know
that? You were seventeen when you came. You're eighteen now.

"Nearly," interjected Sally.

"Well, when you came you had seven shillings a week. We're going to make it ten shillings from
now. And of course overtime as usual. You understand that I don't want you to talk outside
about your wages. At the end of what we call the financial year we may be able to give you
more. I can't promise that. But Miss Summers tells me that you are a good and willing worker;
and I can tell for myself that you are intelligent. I think it will be worth while for you
to stay here; and if you go on as you have begun I shall hope to keep you. Now don't get the
idea that you're indispensable. Don't get conceited. But be encouraged by knowing that I take
an interest in you. That will do, Sally, thank you...."

"Thank you, Madam," responded Sally, demurely. She stood in an attitude of humility, a tremulous
smile of candid satisfaction playing round her mouth.

Nobody in the workroom could have guessed from her manner the turbulence of Sally's emotions.
Pleasure, relief, self-confidence struggled within her. She felt an enormous creature surveying
a pigmy world; and yet, mechanically, she resumed her sewing at the point where she had left
it. The other girls all turned inquisitive faces in her direction. Was it the sack? A row?
A rise? Nothing at all? Sally was a baffling creature ... a white-faced cocket. She was deep.
That word of Miss Rapson's had entered the hearts of the girls. Sally had heard it; she knew
that they felt her superiority, and gaped at it with faint resentment. A flash told her now
that they were all on tiptoe, and her nonchalance was a piece of acting which she enjoyed for
its effect upon the others. She most mischievously enjoyed her privilege. And she had a new
cause for triumph, a double success. She felt herself a schemer, an intriguer, which she was
not. She was merely an opportunist, seizing the main chance. Not only had she a secret understanding
with Gaga; she had also a secret understanding with Gaga's mother. She was most marvellously
Sally Minto. The world was open to her. It was not the extra three shillings a week that intoxicated
her: it was the sense of a difficult and engaging future. Her ambition had never been so strong.
She turned her thoughts to the miserable room at home, to her mother, to Mrs. Perce. She wandered
afield to the dinners with Gaga, to her recent talk with Madam. Not merely wealth, but power,
seemed to lie ahead. She saw once more Madam's bad health; the probable exaltation of Miss
Summers. If she took care, she would presently lie in the very heart of the business. Its accounts
would be under her hand in the evenings; its work visible to her eye in the daytime. Miss Summers
liked her and trusted her; she was sure of her own ability, her own shrewdness; without deliberately
planning it, she had earned the good-will of the three people who really mattered, so far as
her progress was concerned.

What if Madam were away ill? What if she died? Sally trembled at the prospect. She trembled
lest some accident should interfere with what was otherwise inevitable. She knew that with
Miss Summers she had no rival; her compact with Gaga was secure, unless his weakness betrayed
them. Even here, she knew she might rely upon his integrity. Gaga would keep to his word. Sally
saw herself installed as bookkeeper--oh, if she were only older! If she were older, if she
were twenty-five, she would hold the business in the hollow of her hand. She was already learning
how to speak to the ladies who came to give orders; her shrewdness would quickly show her which
were good accounts and which required watching; and her work never grew careless. With each
perception Sally's brain and her capacity for adapting herself to every circumstance seemed
to expand. She was already much older than her years. With a little more experience she would
be in a commanding position. But Madam must be ill, Madam must.... Madam must be very ill;
and yet not before Sally had made sure of Gaga. Gaga was the key with which she would enter
into her proper sphere. He must be her mascot.

With her head bent Sally stitched busily on, never allowing ambition to distract her from the
immediate task. Baffled, the girls fell again to their work. That Sally Minto was deep--you
couldn't tell what she was doing, what she was thinking. She was deep. Under her breath Sally
was humming a tune, a familiar tune. A slow grin spread over her white face, and faded again.
Looking up, she caught Miss Summers's eye, and smiled faintly, gratefully, reassuringly. She
recognised at once how pleased and proud Miss Summers was at Sally's progress. If her mind
had not been so busy, Sally would have felt a little warmth stealing into her heart; but she
was not aware of anything except Sally Minto and her plans for worldly advancement. She for
this moment saw Miss Summers also merely as an instrument, a plump, pussy-faced woman with
an eternally cold nose and a heart quick to respond to the best efforts of her favourite hand.

xv

It was with a jump of excitement that Sally heard, in the following week, that Madam was very
ill indeed. Gaga came in the morning with a haggard face, having spent the night by his mother's
bedside. He had a few words with Miss Summers, who came out of the room with a comically solemn
look upon her plump face. She made no remark to the girls, but at lunch time, when the others
were out, or were dispersed in the part of the building where they were allowed to eat whatever
they had brought for lunch, Sally stole into Madam's room and found Gaga there, sitting at
the desk with his hands covering his face. When Sally approached him he did not seem to have
heard her, but continued sitting thus lost in a depressed stupor. Sally knew that there was
nobody in the room behind her: they were quite alone.

"Mr. Bertram!" she said, quietly. Still he made no response. Her heart quickened. Was he asleep?
Was he--was he dead? She took a further step, and then spoke his name again. There was a slight
movement. He was awake, and merely very unhappy and perhaps exhausted. With the slightest feeling
of self-consciousness she advanced to Gaga's side, and laid a hand upon his shoulder. She could
see the thinning hair upon the top of his head, and the long slim fingers pressed to his temples.

"Mr. Bertram, I'm so sorry," whispered Sally. Her arm slipped farther round his shoulders,
and her breast was against his head, so gently pressing there that Gaga was only conscious
of the faintest contact. He relaxed slightly, and his hands fell. Two gloomy eyes looked up
into Sally's face. She withdrew her arm, standing now beside him, altogether apart.

"You made me feel queer," Sally went on. "Thought you were in a faint or something. Are you
ill? Oh, say something, say something!"

All Sally's little thin body grew rigid as she spoke, for Gaga looked at her with an air of
distraction. He seemed not to recognise her. His eyes were yellow and suffused, his mouth was
open, his appearance that of one who was hardly sane.

"I'm all right," came at last with an effort from his dry lips. "All right, Sally. Only tired
... ever so tired." There followed a stiff attempt to smile, and then his face was hidden once
again by the long hands. "My head's throbbing. It's like pincers in my head."

"Have you got any medicine?" she asked, quite moved by his weakness. "Go out and get some.
Quick! Get a chemist to...." The head was slowly shaken. "You ought to. You can't do anything
if you're ill. Can't do any work, or help Madam, or anything."

"Better presently," groaned Gaga. "That's ... that's all right, Sally. Good little girl to
be so kind. I've been up all night. She's very bad, Sally; very bad. I've been up all night.
Never mind; I'll be better presently." He relapsed into his former comatose state, nerveless
and lethargic.

"You ought to get some sleep now. Go home to bed," urged Sally. "It's no good trying to work
if you're sick. Go home now." She did not know how motherly, how caressing and wise, her voice
had become. She was absorbed in his state of exhaustion and passivity. "It's not right," she
went on. "You can't do any good. Get the doctor to give you something to make you sleep."

Gaga groaned again, still lost in his own sensations.

"No good," he murmured. "I can't sleep. That's what's the matter. Nothing does any good. I
can't sleep--can't forget. Only sit here like this, and feel stupid. Never mind, Sally. Good
little girl." He spoke thickly, like a man who has been drinking; but he was stupidly unshakable.
She could do nothing with him. Having withdrawn her arm she could not again lay it upon his
shoulders; but stood silent, feeling helpless and on tiptoe, with a sense of strain. She was
not miserable nor anxious about him; she could almost hear her own voice, so nearly had detachment
come upon her. And with something like cramp in her limbs, and paralysis of her ingenuity,
she remained by his side, one hand resting for support upon Gaga's desk. Presently he withdrew
one of his own hands, and patted hers; and as if that released her Sally went very quietly
back to the workroom. There she saw two or three of the girls busy reading a paper, and in
a little while Miss Summers came back and work was resumed. By the time Sally could again go
into Madam's room Gaga had disappeared, and they did not see him all the following day.

xvi

Two days later he returned, and dully went on with his work as though it had no interest for
him. Miss Summers had several times to suffer the ordeal of debilitating interviews; and towards
the end of the afternoon was exasperated to tears. Sally could tell this from the sniffs and
nose-rubbings that became more and more frequent. Miss Summers's eye-rims were quite pink,
and her funny eyes were moist. She looked more than ever like a disconsolate tabby, and her
hands were restless and clumsy. She had to ask Sally to thread her needle, and even to finish
work that she was doing badly because of her agitation.

"Thank you, my dear," murmured Miss Summers. "So kind." Then, in a low tone, "Do for goodness'
sake go in and see what Mr. Bertram's doing. He's quite absurd, like somebody mad. He's not
in his senses, that's clear; and it's enough to drive anybody crazy."

Sally left the girls and slipped into Madam's tawny room. At her entrance Gaga gave a start,
and his ruler fell clattering to the floor. But when he saw who was there his face brightened.
A faint smile spread across the grey cheeks, making Gaga look so charming, in spite of his
illness, that Sally was unexpectedly relieved. Her own smile was instantly responsive, and
she stood almost roguishly before him in her short frock, and the demure pinafore which she
was wearing over it.

"Miss Summers sent me," she explained. "Thought you might want some help."

Gaga shook his head, the smile still apparent. He shook his head again, trying to find words
to express himself, and failing.

"No, Sally," he at last ventured. "No help. I'm better ... almost better, to-day. I can understand
... understand what I'm doing. I'm afraid ... er ... afraid I was very stupid the other day.
I've thought of that since. Er.... I say.... I wish you'd ... come out to dinner to-night."

"Really?" Sally beamed upon him. She gave her little grin, and nodded. "If you'd like me to,
of course I will. I'll be ready. Thank you very much."

Gaga made a heroic effort. He began to stammer, checked himself, and at last succeeded in imposing
coherence upon his wandering words.

"It's you who ... ought to be thanked," he answered. "You cheer me up."

"Do I?" Sally's tone was eager, her reply instant. "I'm so glad. I like to feel I ... you know,
cheer you. Does me good."

They exchanged shy smiles, and parted; Gaga to resume his labours, Sally to report his increasing
sanity to Miss Summers. And then there followed the unwanted hours that always lie between
the making of a desired appointment and the enjoyment of its arrival. Sally stitched with a
will, for her anticipations for this evening were not of an ambitious kind. She knew all the
time she was working that she looked forward to the outing, and she was not at all puzzled
at her own expectancy, because in any case a dinner with Gaga would always make a break in
her often monotonous days and evenings. But she could never altogether fail to make impulsive
plans and it was as the result of unconscious reflection that she checked Gaga in the course
of their walk together.

"Don't let's go to the Rezzonico," she said, quickly. "Let's go somewhere quiet."

As a result, they turned eastward, into the region of the smaller restaurants, and looked at
several before Sally picked one called "Le Chat Blanc." It seemed to her to be the quietest
and cleanest they had seen, and at any rate it would be a new experience to dine there. The
doorway was modest, and the windows curtained low enough (in a red and white check) to permit
a glimpse of the small but shining interior. Within, all was grey and white. Sally led the
way into the place, and to a remote table, and seated herself with an air of confidence remarkable
in one who dined, as it were, for the third time only. She glanced at the two waitresses--both
very dark girls with earrings, who wore their black hair coiffed high upon their heads. They
were Italians, agreeable and inquisitive; and the food-smells also were Italian and full flavoured.
As soon as the two were seated they became the property of one of the two waitresses, who stood
over them so maternally that she seemed to have no desire but for their good-fortune in choosing
the meal aright. She plunged both Sally and Gaga into a muddle by her persuasive translations
of the menu, but she made up for her linguistic deficiencies by this anxious interest and by
a capricious smile. Scared and curious, they looked round the plain grey walls of the clean
little room, and at the four or five other people who sat near them, and at the ceiling, and
at each other.

"It's funny!" whispered Sally, exultingly. "Never seen anything like it."

"I.... I've never seen one ... so ... so clean," stammered Gaga.

Near them a conceited young man with a hard voice and small eyes was talking impressively to
an untidy-looking girl in green with a mauve chiffon scarf. While he talked, the girl smoked
his cigarettes, and interjected remarks of superior quality. Sally heard her say "Ah," in sign
of agreement, and once "Oh, yes, of course Flaubert...."

"What's Flaubert?" she asked Gaga. He appeared startled.

"Er ... I don't know," he answered. "What put it into your head?"

"That girl said it. Listen." They listened. The young man was arguing about something. He was
arguing about something of which neither Sally nor Gaga could discover the purport. Sally said:
"They're both woolly. Woolly-wits, they are. Both got maggots. What's 'art,' anyway? Pitchers?
And all that about values?"

Gaga was buried. He had a sudden inspiration.

"Don't listen to them," he said. "It's something they ... they understand."

"I bet they don't," remarked Sally. "You don't talk about things you understand."

"Well, let's talk about what we don't understand...." He was beseeching in his tone, and his
soft eyes glowed. The waitress approached, bearing two large plates piled high with spaghetti.

"Golly!" ejaculated Sally. "Howjer eat it? Fingers?"

They had little time to talk while they were engaged with the capers of this surprising food;
but when both were tired of playing with the spaghetti they turned their attention to the straw-covered
bottle of Chianti which had been brought. Sally made a wry mouth at her first venture. She
had yet to learn that the wine was heavier than any she had yet drunk. She strained her ears
to catch more of what the fascinatingly conceited young man was saying about his inexhaustible
topic. Good-looking boy, if he cut his hair and shaved his moustache off. She saw Gaga look
anxiously and wonderingly across at her, with a kind of hunger; and she was shaken by a mischievous
notion. She had never done such a thing before, but she put her foot forward so that it touched
one of his, and smiled right into Gaga's chocolate eyes. The slow red crept up under his skin,
and they had no need to talk. Sally was laughing to herself, and eating some beautifully cooked
veal, and she knew that Gaga was glowing with contentment. She at last observed the two talkers
slouch out of the restaurant, the man in very baggy-kneed trousers and a loose coat, and the
girl in a dress of home make. A quick wrinkle showed in Sally's grimacing nose as she brought
her professional eye to bear; and then the two talkers were gone and were forgotten. Sally
and Gaga were quite alone at their end of the room, in a corner, favorably remote for intimate
conversation from the remaining diners.

"Funny us not knowing what they were talking about," mused Sally. "You don't, you know. It's
very hard to know what anybody talks about. To understand it, I mean. Hard to know anybody, too."

"I shouldn't have thought I was hard to know," ventured Gaga.

"I wasn't thinking about you," said Sally, with unconscious cruelty. "I was thinking.... I've
forgotten. Isn't this wine sour! No, I'm getting used to it--getting to like it. Hasn't half--
I mean, it's got a nice smooth way of going down." As Sally checked herself she realised that
she was now so much at ease with Gaga that she no longer worried about her pronunciation or
her words when she was with him. Worry? Sally's conceitedness soared into the air and frowned
down upon the faltering Gaga with something like scorn. Poor Gaga! thought Sally. Instantly
her hardness returned, and she looked at his lined face and the pale lips that hung a little
away from his teeth in sign of ill-health. She saw his dark grey morning coat, and the slip
inside the waistcoat, and his sober tie. And it seemed to Sally that she saw right into the
simple mind of Gaga. He was so simple, like the hire purchase system. He was about the simplest
man she had ever seen, for his tongue could hardly utter more than the tamest of words and
phrases, and he never seemed to Sally to keep anything back.

"And yet, you know," she went on, following Gaga's remark and this train of thought, "there's
lots more to know about people than just what you see--and what they do and say. If you know
them ever so well, you only know a bit of them. You don't know me. You think I'm a little girl
in the workroom, and a worker, and all that."

"I think you're a marvel!" ejaculated Gaga.

"Yes, well, when you've got to the end of thinking I'm a marvel, what happens? You don't know
me any better. I might be a poisoner, or a ... or a...." Sally's invention failed her. "I might
keep a shop, or serve a bar, or be an actress," she went on, recovering fertility. "I mean,
in the evenings."

