The total number of machines employed in the various operations of making a ship's block by
the new method was forty-four; and after being regularly employed in Portsmouth Dockyard for
upwards of fifty years, they are still as perfect in their action as on the day they were erected.
They constitute one of the most ingenious and complete collections of tools ever invented for
making articles in wood, being capable of performing most of the practical operations of carpentry
with the utmost accuracy and finish.  The machines are worked by a steam-engine of 32-horse
power, which is also used for various other dockyard purposes.  Under the new system of block-making
it was found that the articles were better made, supplied with much greater rapidity, and executed
at a greatly reduced cost.  Only ten men, with the new machinery, could perform the work which
before had required a hundred and ten men to execute, and not fewer than 160,000 blocks of
various kinds and sizes could be turned out in a year, worth not less than 541,000L.[14]

The satisfactory execution of the block-machinery brought Maudslay a large accession of fame
and business; and the premises in Margaret Street proving much too limited for his requirements,
he again resolved to shift his quarters.  He found a piece of ground suitable for his purpose
in Westminster Road, Lambeth.  Little more than a century since it formed part of a Marsh,
the name of which is still retained in the adjoining street; its principal productions being
bulrushes and willows, which were haunted in certain seasons by snipe and waterfowl. An enterprising
riding-master had erected some premises on a part of the marsh, which he used for a riding-school;
but the speculation not answering, they were sold, and Henry Maudslay became the proprietor.
Hither he removed his machinery from Margaret Street in 1810, adding fresh plant from time
to time as it was required; and with the aid of his late excellent partner he built up the
far-famed establishment of Maudslay, Field, and Co.  There he went on improving his old tools
and inventing new ones, as the necessity for them arose, until the original slide-lathes used
for making the block-machinery became thrown into the shade by the comparatively gigantic machine-tools
of the modern school. Yet the original lathes are still to be found in the collection of the
firm in Westminster Road, and continue to do their daily quota of work with the same precision
as they did when turned out of the hands of their inventor and maker some sixty years ago.

It is unnecessary that we should describe in any great detail the further career of Henry Maudslay.
The rest of his life was full of useful and profitable work to others as well as to himself.
His business embraced the making of flour and saw mills, mint machinery, and steam-engines
of all kinds.  Before he left Margaret Street, in 1807, he took out a patent for improvements
in the steam-engine, by which he much simplified its parts, and secured greater directness
of action.  His new engine was called the Pyramidal, because of its form, and was the first
move towards what are now called Direct-acting Engines, in which the lateral movement of the
piston is communicated by connecting-rods to the rotatory movement of the crank-shaft.  Mr.
Nasmyth says of it, that "on account of its great simplicity and GET-AT-ABILITY of parts, its
compactness and self-contained steadiness, this engine has been the parent of a vast progeny,
all more or less marked by the distinguishing features of the original design, which is still
in as high favour as ever."  Mr. Maudslay also directed his attention in like manner to the
improvement of the marine engine, which he made so simple and effective as to become in a great
measure the type of its class; and it has held its ground almost unchanged for nearly thirty
years.  The 'Regent,' which was the first steamboat that plied between London and Margate,
was fitted with engines by Maudslay in 1816; and it proved the forerunner of a vast number
of marine engines, the manufacture of which soon became one of the most important branches
of mechanical engineering.

Another of Mr. Maudslay's inventions was his machine for punching boiler-plates, by which the
production of ironwork of many kinds was greatly facilitated.  This improvement originated
in the contract which he held for some years for supplying the Royal Navy with iron plates
for ships' tanks.  The operations of shearing and punching had before been very imperfectly
done by hand, with great expenditure of labour. To improve the style of the work and lessen
the labour, Maudslay invented the machine now in general use, by which the holes punched in
the iron plate are exactly equidistant, and the subsequent operation of riveting is greatly
facilitated.  One of the results of the improved method was the great saving which was at once
effected in the cost of preparing the plates to receive the rivets, the price of which was
reduced from seven shillings per tank to ninepence.  He continued to devote himself to the
last to the improvement of the lathe,--in his opinion the master-machine, the life and soul
of engine-turning, of which the planing, screw-cutting, and other machines in common use, are
but modifications.  In one of the early lathes which he contrived and made, the mandrill was
nine inches in diameter; it was driven by wheel-gearing like a crane motion, and adapted to
different speeds. Some of his friends, on first looking at it, said he was going "too fast;"
but he lived to see work projected on so large a scale as to prove that his conceptions were
just, and that he had merely anticipated by a few years the mechanical progress of his time.
His large removable bar-lathe was a highly important tool of the same kind. It was used to
turn surfaces many feet in diameter.  While it could be used for boring wheels, or the side-rods
of marine engines, it could turn a roller or cylinder twice or three times the diameter of
its own centres from the ground-level, and indeed could drive round work of any diameter that
would clear the roof of the shop.  This was therefore an almost universal tool, capable of
very extensive uses.  Indeed much of the work now executed by means of special tools, such
as the planing or slotting machine, was then done in the lathe, which was used as a cutter-shaping
machine, fitted with various appliances according to the work.

Maudslay's love of accuracy also led him from an early period to study the subject of improved
screw-cutting.  The importance of this department of mechanism can scarcely be overrated, the
solidity and permanency of most mechanical structures mainly depending on the employment of
the screw, at the same time that the parts can be readily separated for renewal or repair.
Any one can form an idea of the importance of the screw as an element in mechanical construction
by examining say a steam-engine, and counting the number of screws employed in holding it together.
Previous to the time at which the subject occupied the attention of our mechanic, the tools
used for making screws were of the most rude and inexact kind.  The screws were for the most
part cut by hand:  the small by filing, the larger by chipping and filing.  In consequence
of the great difficulty of making them, as few were used as possible; and cotters, cotterils,
or forelocks, were employed instead.  Screws, however, were to a certain extent indispensable;
and each manufacturing establishment made them after their own fashion.  There was an utter
want of uniformity.  No system was observed as to "pitch," i.e.  the number of threads to the
inch, nor was any rule followed as to the form of those threads.  Every bolt and nut was sort
of specialty in itself, and neither owed nor admitted of any community with its neighbours.
To such an extent was this irregularity carried, that all bolts and their corresponding nuts
had to be marked as belonging to each other; and any mixing of them together led to endless
trouble, hopeless confusion, and enormous expense.  Indeed none but those who lived in the
comparatively early days of machine-manufacture can form an adequate idea of the annoyance
occasioned by the want of system in this branch of detail, or duly appreciate the services
rendered by Maudslay to mechanical engineering by the practical measures which he was among
the first to introduce for its remedy.  In his system of screw-cutting machinery, his taps
and dies, and screw-tackle generally, he laid the foundations of all that has since been done
in this essential branch of machine-construction, in which he was so ably followed up by several
of the eminent mechanics brought up in his school, and more especially by Joseph Clement and
Joseph Whitworth.  One of his earliest self-acting screw lathes, moved by a guide-screw and
wheels after the plan followed by the latter engineer, cut screws of large diameter and of
any required pitch.  As an illustration of its completeness and accuracy, we may mention that
by its means a screw five feet in length, and two inches in diameter, was cut with fifty threads
to the inch; the nut to fit on to it being twelve inches long, and containing six hundred threads.
This screw was principally used for dividing scales for astronomical purposes; and by its means
divisions were produced so minute that they could not be detected without the aid of a magnifier.
The screw, which was sent for exhibition to the Society of Arts, is still carefully preserved
amongst the specimens of Maudslay's handicraft at the Lambeth Works, and is a piece of delicate
work which every skilled mechanic will thoroughly appreciate.  Yet the tool by which this fine
piece of turning was produced was not an exceptional tool, but was daily employed in the ordinary
work of the manufactory.

Like every good workman who takes pride in his craft, he kept his tools in first-rate order,
clean, and tidily arranged, so that he could lay his hand upon the thing he wanted at once,
without loss of time.  They are still preserved in the state in which he left them, and strikingly
illustrate his love of order, "nattiness," and dexterity.  Mr. Nasmyth says of him that you
could see the man's character in whatever work he turned out; and as the connoisseur in art
will exclaim at sight of a picture, "That is Turner," or "That is Stansfield," detecting the
hand of the master in it, so the experienced mechanician, at sight of one of his machines or
engines, will be equally ready to exclaim, "That is Maudslay;" for the characteristic style
of the master-mind is as clear to the experienced eye in the case of the finished machine as
the touches of the artist's pencil are in the case of the finished picture. Every mechanical
contrivance that became the subject of his study came forth from his hand and mind rearranged,
simplified, and made new, with the impress of his individuality stamped upon it.  He at once
stripped the subject of all unnecessary complications; for he possessed a wonderful faculty
of KNOWING WHAT TO DO WITHOUT--the result of his clearness of insight into mechanical adaptations,
and the accurate and well-defined notions he had formed of the precise object to be accomplished.
"Every member or separate machine in the system of block-machinery," says Mr. Nasmyth, "is
full of Maudslay's presence; and in that machinery, as constructed by him, is to be found the
parent of every engineering tool by the aid of which we are now achieving such great things
in mechanical construction.  To the tools of which Maudslay furnished the prototypes are we
mainly indebted for the perfection of our textile machinery, our locomotives, our marine engines,
and the various implements of art, of agriculture, and of war. If any one who can enter into
the details of this subject will be at the pains to analyse, if I may so term it, the machinery
of our modern engineering workshops, he will find in all of them the strongly-marked features
of Maudslay's parent machine, the slide rest and slide system--whether it be a planing machine,
a slotting machine, a slide-lathe, or any other of the wonderful tools which are now enabling
us to accomplish so much in mechanism."

One of the things in which Mr. Maudslay took just pride was in the excellence of his work.
In designing and executing it, his main object was to do it in the best possible style and
finish, altogether irrespective of the probable pecuniary results.  This he regarded in the
light of a duty he could not and would not evade, independent of its being a good investment
for securing a future reputation; and the character which he thus obtained, although at times
purchased at great cost, eventually justified the soundness of his views.  As the eminent Mr.
Penn, the head of the great engineering firm, is accustomed to say, "I cannot afford to turn
out second-rate work," so Mr. Maudslay found both character and profit in striving after the
highest excellence in his productions.  He was particular even in the minutest details.  Thus
one of the points on which he insisted--apparently a trivial matter, but in reality of considerable
importance in mechanical construction--was the avoidance of sharp interior angles in ironwork,
whether wrought or cast; for he found that in such interior angles cracks were apt to originate;
and when the article was a tool, the sharp angle was less pleasant to the hand as well as to
the eye.  In the application of his favourite round or hollow corner system--as, for instance,
in the case of the points of junction of the arms of a wheel with its centre and rim--he used
to illustrate its superiority by holding up his hand and pointing out the nice rounded hollow
at the junction of the fingers, or by referring to the junction of the branches to the stem
of a tree.  Hence he made a point of having all the angles of his machine framework nicely
rounded off on their exterior, and carefully hollowed in their interior angles.  In forging
such articles he would so shape his metal before bending that the result should be the right
hollow or rounded corner when bent; the anticipated external angle falling into its proper
place when the bar so shaped was brought to its ultimate form.  In all such matters of detail
he was greatly assisted by his early dexterity as a blacksmith; and he used to say that to
be a good smith you must be able to SEE in the bar of iron the object proposed to be got out
of it by the hammer or the tool, just as the sculptor is supposed to see in the block of stone
the statue which he proposes to bring forth from it by his mind and his chisel.

