It appears from this fact, which will be confirmed by many of my readers, that some waking
states resemble those of dreams in form, and moreover they are sometimes even alike in substance.
Ideas and thoughts in the conditions just indicated may not only be latent, active, combined,
or transformed by suggestive impulses, but ideas are represented by images in such vivid relief
that, until the observer recollects himself, they are seen and felt by him with the same sense
of reality as in a dream. This mental transformation is however so habitual, that the implicit
conviction of being really awake, does not allow us to observe what the actual nature of the
phenomenon is, since there is an immediate transition from an implicit perception of the image
as real to the habitual form of simple thought, without distinguishing the difference between
these two states of consciousness. Any one who has long practised himself in the observation
of such distinctions will, however, be able to understand the psychical process and to estimate
its value.

It has often occurred to myself, in circumstances analogous to the above, when thinking of
persons or places at a distance, to see them imaged before me in such vivid relief that I have
been startled as if by a morbid hallucination. Once, in passing through my chamber, my attention
was so strongly fixed on an absent person that I was not only vividly conscious of his form,
but also of his voice and gestures, so that I was amazed by the lively image brought before
me. I could adduce other instances from my own experience and that of others to show that in
a waking and altogether normal state we may believe in the reality of the image as we do in dreams.

This vivid and momentary realization of images is very common in the lower classes, who often
talk to themselves, and use gestures which show that they are conversing at the moment with
imaginary persons, who stand before them, as if they were really there, in the same manner
as in dreams. Indeed, every one has experienced this phenomenon for himself, especially when
strongly excited by anger, sorrow, or hope. If it were possible to reflect on the process of
thought at the time we should distinctly understand that we were dreaming while still awake.

The vivid imagination of artists is well known, so that they are able to see and represent
things and persons, either in words, with the pencil, or the chisel, just as if they were actually
present. The image so vividly realized is a necessary condition of the exercise of their respective
arts. When great poets, such as Dante, Ariosto, Milton, and Goethe, conceived and idealized
their thoughts with every detail of circumstances, persons, actions, expressions, and movements,
no one can deny that the images were vividly present to their minds, and that while in the
act of composition these were unconsciously regarded as having a real existence. If these poetic
descriptions are presented to the attentive reader in such a vivid form as to transport him
into a real world, much more must the authors of these marvellous creations have looked upon
them as real at the moment of composition. The impression of truthfulness is indeed produced
by the fact that the writers saw these things as though they were real. I speak of states of
consciousness, not of reflex observation, of intense moments of sensation and imagination,
which are unnoticed by the man who experiences them in his waking moments. Such is the reader
of a poem, a romance, or history, the spectator of a picture, who is able for the time to abstract
himself from surrounding objects, and who implicitly believes that he sees those places and
persons, or whatever the book or painter has described or represented. If suddenly interrupted,
he rouses himself, and may be said to awake to the present reality of things, as if startled
from a dream.

Wigan relates that a celebrated portrait painter worked with such quickness and facility that
he painted more than three hundred portraits in a year. When he was asked the secret of his
rapid execution and of the faithfulness of the likeness, he replied, "When any one proposes
to have his portrait taken, I look at him attentively for half an hour, while sketching his
features on the canvas; I then lay the canvas aside and pursue the same method with another
portrait, and so on. When I wish to return to the first, I take his person into my mind and
place it before me as distinctly as if he were actually present. I set to work, looking at
the sitter from time to time, since I am able to see him whenever I look that way." Talma asserted
that when he was on the stage, he was able by mere force of will to transform his audience
into skeletons, which affected him with such emotion as to add force and energy to his action.
Abercromby speaks of a man who had the faculty of calling up visions with all the vividness
of reality whenever he pleased, by strongly fixing his attention on mental conceptions which
corresponded to them. Yet he was a sane man, in the prime of life, perfectly intelligent, and
versed in practical affairs.

A very slight withdrawal of the attention from surrounding objects is all that is necessary
to enable artists and some other persons to call up these images with vivid distinctness, since
even in the waking state the image may for the moment appear to be actually before them. Any
one might attain to the same power of verification if the transition from the real to the merely
ideal image were not in the waking state so instantaneous and easy; whereas in a dream the
state of illusion is uninterrupted, and it is physiologically impossible for the mind to pass
immediately from the image, which is believed to be real, to the simply representative idea
of the thing.

Even in the waking state, the image and representative idea of the thing naturally tend to
become, or to appear to be, actual realities, even in a strictly normal condition of mind and
body. Nor do they only implicitly tend to become such by the innate impulse of the mind, but
they actually become so in fugitive moments of which man is scarcely conscious, and they appear
to him exactly as they do in dreams. Hence it follows that there is no hard and fast line between
the sleeping and waking states, so far as the nature of images, their source, action, and combinations
are concerned, when men are distracted in mind, and the course of their thoughts is not voluntarily
directed to some definite object; so that by a psychological process the phenomena of the waking
state may be partly transformed into those of dreams. The vivid character of the image, presented
to the senses as if actually there, is common to both phenomena. The way in which we begin
to dream shows how, owing to our physiological conditions, we pass through regular stages from
the waking state into that of sleep.

  "Nuovo pensiero dentro a me si mise,
     Dal qual più altri nacquero e diversi;
     E tanto di uno in altro vaneggiai
     Che gli occhi per vaghezza ricopersi,
   E il pensamento in sogno trasmutai."[33]

So Dante writes in the "Purgatorio" with deep and subtle truth. Each man can verify for himself
the exactness of the great poet's description.

I myself can readily study the phenomena of dreams, since I never sleep without dreaming so
vividly that I remember all the circumstances in the morning. I have used all sorts of artifices
in order to trace the beginning of sleep and dreams, and always with the same result, so that
I am certain of the accuracy of experiments which have been repeated a hundred times. I have
examined other persons who have made the same observations, all of whom agree with me.

When repose, the herald of sleep and dreams, begins, my thoughts wander in an irregular and
somewhat confused manner. As they are gradually subjected to the associations to which they
successively give rise, they are transformed into more vivid images, a vividness which is always
in inverse proportion to the attention. This gradually produces the state which has been described
by Maury and others as hypnagogic hallucination; that is, the images seem to be real, although
the subject is still partly awake, and the voluntary exercise of thought is lost from time
to time in this species of incipient chaos. It is at this point that images are really most
intense, and that every idea assumes a body and form, every image a reality: finally, when
the body and the brain have reached the physiological conditions of sleep, thoughts which had
been changed into hypnagogic images in the intermediate stage between sleep and waking, are
altogether transformed into the real images of dreams.

By an effort of will I have often been able to surprise myself in this intermediate stage,
and the same thing has been done by others, and it always appears that this is the real moment
of transition from wakefulness to dreaming, I have been able to verify the fact that the first
dream is only the continuation of our last waking thoughts, which have now become dramatic
and real I have also observed that this intermediate stage between waking and dreaming, during
which the images are real and vivid, although we are still conscious of our real condition,
goes on for a long while, sometimes for a whole night, with brief intervals of sleep. This
has occurred to me when I was kept awake, either when travelling at night, or when I had taken
a large draught of water before lying down (other liquids or food does not produce the phenomenon)
or if I have been looking during the day at objects illuminated by dazzling sunshine. In all
these circumstances the bright and vivid images appear reduced to an almost microscopic scale,
although very distinct in form and colour; in ordinary cases, the images appear of the ordinary
size, but not without a tendency to become smaller.

I believe that there is a physical cause for the reduction and attenuation of the images in
the excessive excitement of the retina, or central encephalic organ in which images are formed
in conscious concurrence with the cortical part of the hemispheres. Owing to the excitement
caused by wakefulness, by fatigue, by sunshine, or in some cases by the condition of the nerves
of the stomach, the objective projection on psychical space, partly transmitted by heredity
and gradually formed by associations and local signs,[34] is arrested by the innate force of
the image on the organ, and it appears to be smaller and in proportion with the relative smallness
of the image which is produced by minute vibrations and by the susceptibility of the cellule.
This intermediate and persistent stage of hypnagogic images serves in every way to explain
the physical genesis of involuntary hallucinations.

As a proof that the image physiologically assumes the form of a real appearance, I may mention
the experience of myself and others. When suddenly awakened from a vivid dream I have sometimes,
even when I was fully awake, seen for an instant the figures of my dream still moving, and
projected on the wall. This fact shows that even the images of our waking state have, in the
physiological conditions of the brain, a tendency to take real forms, so that they may be termed
normal, or more properly, inchoate hallucinations, corrected by the conscious efforts of our
waking state and external consciousness. So that it might be said that dreams are at first
the transformation of our waking thoughts into normal images and hallucinations, and afterwards
into those of dreams, properly so called.

If the hypnagogic phase actually affects the cerebral cellules in connection with the various
senses of which they are the organs, the phases of sleep and dreams, strictly so called, have
more general conditions. The idea, converted into an image presented to the senses, may thus
be said to have three stages: that of the waking state, which depends as we have said on the
intensity and vividness with which it is reproduced, aided by a momentary detachment from the
real environment; secondly, the hypnagogic phase, in which there is the physiological action
of the nervous centres, which produce the image, though still with the implicit consciousness
of the waking state; and finally, the actual dream, in which this implicit consciousness is
almost always wanting, and the psychical exercise of thought is completely transformed into
visions and figures which are believed to be real. This in its turn depends upon the other
two causes, and on the physiological relaxation of the body, which is to a great extent isolated,
so that the effectual impulses of external nature are greatly attenuated.

In the waking state, the whole body and all its organs of relation and movement are in tension.
The cerebro-spinal axis virtually excites the whole muscular and peripheral system in such
a way that relaxation or relative repose becomes impossible. But the brain, with all its dependencies
and appendices, is not only the organ of thought, but it stimulates and directs our whole system,
as numerous experiments have shown. In the waking state both these functions are exercised
equally, as far as the impulses and functions of the body are concerned, and as long as the
psychical and organic characteristics of the waking state continue. But in sleep the exciting
influence of the brain is diminished, and the brain transmits much less of the normal excitement
and normal tension to the spinal axis with its ramifications in the afferent and efferent nerves;
in the waking state an external impression is promptly conveyed to the centres, whence it returns
in corresponding movements with the usual connection and rapidity, whether reflex or deliberate.
Since in sleep the relative condition is flaccid and torpid, this action no longer takes place.
For if the brain be affected by strong impressions, and these are followed by corresponding
movements due to reflex action, as is often the case, even in sleep, the dreamer is only obscurely
conscious of them, and they almost wholly depend on the spinal axis, and the peripheral ganglia.

As we have said, the function of the brain is duplex; it stimulates and directs, and it is
also sentient and conscious, and this second function is persistent in dreams. Although the
brain is no longer directed by a power which dictates psychical acts and phenomena, yet its
automatic action is not destroyed, and to this the apparent reality of images seen is owing,
since there is no longer any distraction from the external world, or, at all events, its impulses
are so attenuated as to be unobserved. In such conditions past images recur with an appearance
of reality owing to the mnemonic and automatic action of the brain; such a tendency exists
in the waking state, and the images are associated and dissociated in a thousand ways, by means
of analogies, resemblances, former combinations of facts, and series of facts analogous to
those of the waking state, and are modified by suggestive impulses. We have experimental proof,
to which I can add my own irrefragable witness, that the stimulating influence exerted by the
brain in the waking state is dormant in sleep, and that only its automatic act of representation
remains active, with the occasional exercise of an aroused and conscious will.

The following strange and unpleasant phenomenon generally occurs to me once or twice a year.
All at once, in the midst of a deep sleep, I become wide awake; I am fully conscious of myself,
of the place where I am, of my position and the like, and wish to move like a person who is
fully awake. Yet for some time this is impossible; the psychical, cerebral faculty is perfectly
awake, and master of itself, but not the stimulating faculty, so that the limbs do not respond
to the first impulse of the will. All my efforts are unsuccessful; I only succeed in escaping
from this unpleasant situation by uttering with great difficulty some inarticulate sound, which
acts as a shock, and I thus obtain the mastery of my body, for the nerves of speech and the
muscular movements of articulation also fail to answer to my will. If this occurs when I am
alone, the struggle is severe, and there is a violent shock to the whole body before its equilibrium
is restored and the motor function of the brain resumes its office.

It is therefore manifest that the stimulating function of the brain is dormant in sleep and
dreams, but its automatic, psychical function persists; it sometimes happens that the stimulus
of the will is awakened before the stimulus of motion, and that the brain may be aroused to
consciousness for some moments before it has resumed its normal functions as a stimulating
organ, which were attenuated and relaxed in sleep. The abnormal condition of paralysis proves
and confirms this fact.

Let us now ascertain the cause of the various psychical and physiological conditions which
aim at and often succeed in presenting to the mind a mere representative sign as a substantial
and real image. What is the cause of the apparent reality of dreams? The image is clearly a
psychical phenomenon, containing a sensible element of which we are conscious; the fundamental
faculty of the perception is exerted on it as on a real object, and the immediate results are
precisely identical. The reader will remember that we have shown that a phenomenon involves
the intuitive idea of an active subject, so that the image also, in accordance with the innate
faculty of perception, must normally appear to the mind as such. When this is not the case,
it is because the normal effect of natural phenomena, to which our attention is constantly
directed, and our mental education and hereditary influence, have accustomed us to distinguish
at once between the mere idea and the real object, and thus we discern the difference between
the normal action of thought and sense, and illusions, hallucinations, and dreams. But since
these psychical and physiological conditions lose their force when the habit and actions of
our waking state are dormant, the primitive and innate entification of the image quickly recurs,
as we can plainly see from the previous analysis.

This is so much the case, that some savage peoples even now find it hard to distinguish real
events from those of dreams, and this is owing to a defect in their memory or to the imperfection
of their language. In fact, all civilized and barbarous peoples in the world have without exception
believed, and still believe, in the reality of images seen in dreams, and their personification
has been the source of an immense number of myths. Even now, with all our civilization and
advanced science, not only the common people, but many of those in fashionable and tolerably
cultivated society, believe in the reality of dreams and in their hallucinations, and derive
from them fears, hopes, and warnings for their future life.

I will give one instance in a thousand to prove the innate tendency even in the act of dreaming
to transform the image into a real object. It appeared to me that I was in a large room filled
with acquaintances and strangers, who discussed an event which had really occurred in the city
a few days before. All at once I raised my eyes to the wall of the room, and saw a large picture,
representing a landscape with distant mountains, streams, cottages, and animals. As I looked,
the picture was gradually transformed into a real object, and I found myself, together with
the company before mentioned, in the midst of the fields, on the bank of the river, and within
one of the cottages.

In another dream, I appeared to be conversing with an old soldier on the shores of a lake;
after some incoherent talk, he began to describe a bloody battle in which he had taken part;
he had not gone far before the narrative was changed for an actual occurrence, and I was in
the midst of a real battle, such as the soldier had undertaken to describe. Another night I
dreamed that I was reading a tragic poem, relating terrible deeds of blood and rapine, and
suddenly I seemed to have become an actor or real spectator of that which I had at first read
in a book. In another strange dream I was going over a difficult pass in a hired carriage,
and I seemed to see before me a friend from whom I had parted on the previous day, when he
got into an omnibus to return to the country. I soon saw in the distance a large coach-builder's
establishment, a vast enclosure with sheds and carriages, and in the piazza I saw the manager,
a man I knew, who had really some appointment in a carriage manufactory; the building recalled
by association the familiar appearance of the high chimneys which rose above the roof, and
while thinking of those chimneys with my eyes fixed on the manager, he appeared to me to be
changed into a very high chimney, still bearing a human face. Finally, not to multiply examples,
I remember a dream in which I was present at a popular disturbance, where one woman, more furious
than the rest, came to blows with her husband, and called him a dog. Suddenly the scene changed,
and I was transported to a courtyard in which there were poultry, pigs, and a fine dog of my
acquaintance, called Lightning. Again the scene changed, and I found myself in a country district
with some friends, exposed to a violent storm of thunder and lightning.

We clearly see from these facts that whatever may be presented to the imagination is transformed
into a real object in the dream itself, so that it might be called a dream within a dream,
and in the last instance the transmutation passes through three images and consecutive objects.
This transmutation not only consists in the transition from our waking thoughts to the image
of our dreams, but it takes place in the act of dreaming; such is the power of the faculty
of perception, in which we find the first origin of myth in man, and its roots also in the
animal kingdom. Thus the genesis of myth, as far as the entification of the image is concerned,
is the same as that of dreams.

The normal illusions of the senses, which are believed to be real by primitive men, and by
those ignorant of physical laws, have a similar origin. The objection of such phenomena as
a mirage, or the tremulous effect produced in tropical regions by the refraction and reflection
of light on trees, rocks, and mountains, so well described by Humboldt, is due to ignorance
of the laws of nature, and this is in fact an entification of the phenomenon, occasioned by
the innate tendency to animation which is proper to the perception. In this it is easy to trace
the genesis both of myth and dreams. The fact of hallucination is more complex, even in its
normal state, that is, in those general conditions of mind and body in which reason has complete
command over us.

