This she denied. "She had not," she said, "thought him at all uncivil. She had come to Boxall
Hill to be out of the way; and, of course, had not expected any such formalities." As she uttered
this she almost blushed at the abrupt truth of what she was saying. But she was taken so much
unawares that she did not know how to make the truth other than abrupt.

"To be out of the way!" said Frank. "And why should you want to be out of the way?"

"Oh! there were reasons," said she, laughing. "Perhaps I have quarrelled dreadfully with my uncle."

Frank at the present moment had not about him a scrap of badinage. He had not a single easy
word at his command. He could not answer her with anything in guise of a joke; so he walked
on, not answering at all.

"I hope all my friends at Greshamsbury are well," said Mary. "Is Beatrice quite well?"

"Quite well," said he.

"And Patience?"

"What, Miss Oriel; yes, I believe so. I haven't seen her this day or two." How was it that
Mary felt a little flush of joy, as Frank spoke in this indifferent way about Miss Oriel's health?

"I thought she was always a particular friend of yours," said she.

"What! who? Miss Oriel? So she is! I like her amazingly; so does Beatrice." And then he walked
about six steps in silence, plucking up courage for the great attempt. He did pluck up his
courage and then rushed at once to the attack.

"Mary!" said he, and as he spoke he put his hand on the donkey's neck, and looked tenderly
into her face. He looked tenderly, and, as Mary's ear at once told her, his voice sounded more
soft than it had ever sounded before. "Mary, do you remember the last time that we were together?"

Mary did remember it well. It was on that occasion when he had treacherously held her hand;
on that day when, according to law, he had become a man; when he had outraged all the propriety
of the de Courcy interest by offering his love to Mary in Augusta's hearing. Mary did remember
it well; but how was she to speak of it? "It was your birthday, I think," said she.

"Yes, it was my birthday. I wonder whether you remember what I said to you then?"

"I remember that you were very foolish, Mr Gresham."

"Mary, I have come to repeat my folly;--that is, if it be folly. I told you then that I loved
you, and I dare say that I did so awkwardly, like a boy. Perhaps I may be just as awkward now;
but you ought at any rate to believe me when you find that a year has not altered me."

Mary did not think him at all awkward, and she did believe him. But how was she to answer him?
She had not yet taught herself what answer she ought to make if he persisted in his suit. She
had hitherto been content to run away from him; but she had done so because she would not submit
to be accused of the indelicacy of putting herself in his way. She had rebuked him when he
first spoke of his love; but she had done so because she looked on what he said as a boy's
nonsense. She had schooled herself in obedience to the Greshamsbury doctrines. Was there any
real reason, any reason founded on truth and honesty, why she should not be a fitting wife
to Frank Gresham,--Francis Newbold Gresham, of Greshamsbury, though he was, or was to be?

He was well born--as well born as any gentleman in England. She was basely born--as basely
born as any lady could be. Was this sufficient bar against such a match? Mary felt in her heart
that some twelvemonth since, before she knew what little she did now know of her own story,
she would have said it was so. And would she indulge her own love by inveigling him she loved
into a base marriage? But then reason spoke again. What, after all, was this blood of which
she had taught herself to think so much? Would she have been more honest, more fit to grace
an honest man's hearthstone, had she been the legitimate descendant of a score of legitimate
duchesses? Was it not her first duty to think of him--of what would make him happy? Then of
her uncle--what he would approve? Then of herself--what would best become her modesty; her
sense of honour? Could it be well that she should sacrifice the happiness of two persons to
a theoretic love of pure blood?

So she had argued within herself; not now, sitting on the donkey, with Frank's hand before
her on the tame brute's neck; but on other former occasions as she had ridden along demurely
among those trees. So she had argued; but she had never brought her arguments to a decision.
All manner of thoughts crowded on her to prevent her doing so. She would think of the squire,
and resolve to reject Frank; and would then remember Lady Arabella, and resolve to accept him.
Her resolutions, however, were most irresolute; and so, when Frank appeared in person before
her, carrying his heart in his hand, she did not know what answer to make to him. Thus it was
with her as with so many other maidens similarly circumstanced; at last she left it all to chance.

"You ought, at any rate, to believe me," said Frank, "when you find that a year has not altered
me."

"A year should have taught you to be wiser," said she. "You should have learnt by this time,
Mr Gresham, that your lot and mine are not cast in the same mould; that our stations in life
are different. Would your father or mother approve of your even coming here to see me?"

Mary, as she spoke these sensible words, felt that they were "flat, stale, and unprofitable."
She felt, also, that they were not true in sense; that they did not come from her heart; that
they were not such as Frank deserved at her hands, and she was ashamed of herself.

"My father I hope will approve of it," said he. "That my mother should disapprove of it is
a misfortune which I cannot help; but on this point I will take no answer from my father or
mother; the question is one too personal to myself. Mary, if you say that you will not, or
cannot return my love, I will go away;--not from here only, but from Greshamsbury. My presence
shall not banish you from all that you hold dear. If you can honestly say that I am nothing
to you, can be nothing to you, I will then tell my mother that she may be at ease, and I will
go away somewhere and get over it as I may." The poor fellow got so far, looking apparently
at the donkey's ears, with hardly a gasp of hope in his voice, and he so far carried Mary with
him that she also had hardly a gasp of hope in her heart. There he paused for a moment, and
then looking up into her face, he spoke but one word more. "But," said he--and there he stopped.
It was clearly told in that "but." Thus would he do if Mary would declare that she did not
care for him. If, however, she could not bring herself so to declare, then was he ready to
throw his father and mother to the winds; then would he stand his ground; then would he look
all other difficulties in the face, sure that they might finally be overcome. Poor Mary! the
whole onus of settling the matter was thus thrown upon her. She had only to say that he was
indifferent to her;--that was all.

If "all the blood of the Howards" had depended upon it, she could not have brought herself
to utter such a falsehood. Indifferent to her, as he walked there by her donkey's side, talking
thus earnestly of his love for her! Was he not to her like some god come from the heavens to
make her blessed? Did not the sun shine upon him with a halo, so that he was bright as an angel?
Indifferent to her! Could the open unadulterated truth have been practicable for her, she would
have declared her indifference in terms that would truly have astonished him. As it was, she
found it easier to say nothing. She bit her lips to keep herself from sobbing. She struggled
hard, but in vain, to prevent her hands and feet from trembling. She seemed to swing upon her
donkey as though like to fall, and would have given much to be upon her own feet upon the sward.

"Si la jeunesse savait . . ." There is so much in that wicked old French proverb! Had Frank
known more about a woman's mind--had he, that is, been forty-two instead of twenty-two--he
would at once have been sure of his game, and have felt that Mary's silence told him all he
wished to know. But then, had he been forty-two instead of twenty-two, he would not have been
so ready to risk the acres of Greshamsbury for the smiles of Mary Thorne.

"If you can't say one word to comfort me, I will go," said he, disconsolately. "I made up my
mind to tell you this, and so I came over. I told Lady Scatcherd I should not stay,--not even
for dinner."

"I did not know you were so hurried," said she, almost in a whisper.

On a sudden he stood still, and pulling the donkey's rein, caused him to stand still also.
The beast required very little persuasion to be so guided, and obligingly remained meekly passive.

"Mary, Mary!" said Frank, throwing his arms round her knees as she sat upon her steed, and
pressing his face against her body. "Mary, you were always honest; be honest now. I love you
with all my heart. Will you be my wife?"

But still Mary said not a word. She no longer bit her lips; she was beyond that, and was now
using all her efforts to prevent her tears from falling absolutely on her lover's face. She
said nothing. She could no more rebuke him now and send him from her than she could encourage
him. She could only sit there shaking and crying and wishing she was on the ground. Frank,
on the whole, rather liked the donkey. It enabled him to approach somewhat nearer to an embrace
than he might have found practicable had they both been on their feet. The donkey himself was
quite at his ease, and looked as though he was approvingly conscious of what was going on behind
his ears.

"I have a right to a word, Mary; say 'Go,' and I will leave you at once."

But Mary did not say "Go." Perhaps she would have done so had she been able; but just at present
she could say nothing. This came from her having failed to make up her mind in due time as
to what course it would best become her to follow.

"One word, Mary; one little word. There, if you will not speak, here is my hand. If you will
have it, let it lie in yours;--if not, push it away." So saying, he managed to get the end
of his fingers on to her palm, and there it remained unrepulsed. "La jeunesse" was beginning
to get a lesson; experience when duly sought after sometimes comes early in life.

In truth Mary had not strength to push the fingers away. "My love, my own, my own!" said Frank,
presuming on this very negative sign of acquiescence. "My life, my own one, my own Mary!" and
then the hand was caught hold of and was at his lips before an effort could be made to save
it from such treatment.

"Mary, look at me; say one word to me."

There was a deep sigh, and then came the one word--"Oh, Frank!"

"Mr Gresham, I hope I have the honour of seeing you quite well," said a voice close to his
ear. "I beg to say that you are welcome to Boxall Hill." Frank turned round and instantly found
himself shaking hands with Sir Louis Scatcherd.

How Mary got over her confusion Frank never saw, for he had enough to do to get over his own.
He involuntarily deserted Mary and began talking very fast to Sir Louis. Sir Louis did not
once look at Miss Thorne, but walked back towards the house with Mr Gresham, sulky enough in
temper, but still making some effort to do the fine gentleman. Mary, glad to be left alone,
merely occupied herself with sitting on the donkey; and the donkey, when he found that the
two gentlemen went towards the house, for company's sake and for his stable's sake, followed
after them.

Frank stayed but three minutes in the house; gave another kiss to Lady Scatcherd, getting three
in return, and thereby infinitely disgusting Sir Louis, shook hands, anything but warmly, with
the young baronet, and just felt the warmth of Mary's hand within his own. He felt also the
warmth of her eyes' last glance, and rode home a happy man.

CHAPTER XXX

Post Prandial

Frank rode home a happy man, cheering himself, as successful lovers do cheer themselves, with
the brilliancy of his late exploit: nor was it till he had turned the corner into the Greshamsbury
stables that he began to reflect what he would do next. It was all very well to have induced
Mary to allow his three fingers to lie half a minute in her soft hand; the having done so might
certainly be sufficient evidence that he had overcome one of the lions in his path; but it
could hardly be said that all his difficulties were now smoothed. How was he to make further
progress?

To Mary, also, the same ideas no doubt occurred--with many others. But, then, it was not for
Mary to make any progress in the matter. To her at least belonged this passive comfort, that
at present no act hostile to the de Courcy interest would be expected from her. All that she
could do would be to tell her uncle so much as it was fitting that he should know. The doing
this would doubtless be in some degree difficult; but it was not probable that there would
be much difference, much of anything but loving anxiety for each other, between her and Dr
Thorne. One other thing, indeed, she must do; Frank must be made to understand what her birth
had been. "This," she said to herself, "will give him an opportunity of retracting what he
has done should he choose to avail himself of it. It is well he should have such opportunity."

But Frank had more than this to do. He had told Beatrice that he would make no secret of his
love, and he fully resolved to be as good as his word. To his father he owed an unreserved
confidence; and he was fully minded to give it. It was, he knew, altogether out of the question
that he should at once marry a portionless girl without his father's consent; probably out
of the question that he should do so even with it. But he would, at any rate, tell his father,
and then decide as to what should be done next. So resolving, he put his black horse into the
stable and went in to dinner. After dinner he and his father would be alone.

Yes; after dinner he and his father would be alone. He dressed himself hurriedly, for the dinner-bell
was almost on the stroke as he entered the house. He said this to himself once and again; but
when the meats and the puddings, and then the cheese, were borne away, as the decanters were
placed before his father, and Lady Arabella sipped her one glass of claret, and his sisters
ate their portion of strawberries, his pressing anxiety for the coming interview began to wax
somewhat dull.

His mother and sisters, however, rendered him no assistance by prolonging their stay. With
unwonted assiduity he pressed a second glass of claret on his mother. But Lady Arabella was
not only temperate in her habits, but also at the present moment very angry with her son. She
thought that he had been to Boxall Hill, and was only waiting a proper moment to cross-question
him sternly on the subject. Now she departed, taking her train of daughters with her.

"Give me one big gooseberry," said Nina, as she squeezed herself in under her brother's arm,
prior to making her retreat. Frank would willingly have given her a dozen of the biggest, had
she wanted them; but having got the one, she squeezed herself out again and scampered off.

The squire was very cheery this evening; from what cause cannot now be said. Perhaps he had
succeeded in negotiating a further loan, thus temporarily sprinkling a drop of water over the
ever-rising dust of his difficulties.

"Well, Frank, what have you been after to-day? Peter told me you had the black horse out,"
said he, pushing the decanter to his son. "Take my advice, my boy, and don't give him too much
summer road-work. Legs won't stand it, let them be ever so good."

"Why, sir, I was obliged to go out to-day, and therefore, it had to be either the old mare
or the young horse."

"Why didn't you take Ramble?" Now Ramble was the squire's own saddle hack, used for farm surveying,
and occasionally for going to cover.

"I shouldn't think of doing that, sir."

"My dear boy, he is quite at your service; for goodness' sake do let me have a little wine,
Frank--quite at your service; any riding I have now is after the haymakers, and that's all
on the grass."

"Thank'ee, sir. Well, perhaps I will take a turn out of Ramble should I want it."

"Do, and pray, pray take care of that black horse's legs. He's turning out more of a horse
than I took him to be, and I should be sorry to see him injured. Where have you been to-day?"

"Well, father, I have something to tell you."

"Something to tell me!" and then the squire's happy and gay look, which had been only rendered
more happy and more gay by his assumed anxiety about the black horse, gave place to that heaviness
of visage which acrimony and misfortune had made so habitual to him. "Something to tell me!"
Any grave words like these always presaged some money difficulty to the squire's ears. He loved
Frank with the tenderest love. He would have done so under almost any circumstances; but, doubtless,
that love had been made more palpable to himself by the fact that Frank had been a good son
as regards money--not exigeant as was Lady Arabella, or selfishly reckless as was his nephew
Lord Porlock. But now Frank must be in difficulty about money. This was his first idea. "What
is it, Frank; you have seldom had anything to say that has not been pleasant for me to hear?"
And then the heaviness of visage again gave way for a moment as his eye fell upon his son.

"I have been to Boxall Hill, sir."

The tenor of his father's thoughts was changed in an instant; and the dread of immediate temporary
annoyance gave place to true anxiety for his son. He, the squire, had been no party to Mary's
exile from his own domain; and he had seen with pain that she had now a second time been driven
from her home: but he had never hitherto questioned the expediency of separating his son from
Mary Thorne. Alas! it became too necessary--too necessary through his own default--that Frank
should marry money!

"At Boxall Hill, Frank! Has that been prudent? Or, indeed, has it been generous to Miss Thorne,
who has been driven there, as it were, by your imprudence?"

"Father, it is well that we should understand each other about this--"

"Fill your glass, Frank;" Frank mechanically did as he was told, and passed the bottle.

"I should never forgive myself were I to deceive you, or keep anything from you."

"I believe it is not in your nature to deceive me, Frank."

"The fact is, sir, that I have made up my mind that Mary Thorne shall be my wife--sooner or
later that is, unless, of course, she should utterly refuse. Hitherto, she has utterly refused
me. I believe I may now say that she has accepted me."

The squire sipped his claret, but at the moment said nothing. There was a quiet, manly, but
yet modest determination about his son that he had hardly noticed before. Frank had become
legally of age, legally a man, when he was twenty-one. Nature, it seems, had postponed the
ceremony till he was twenty-two. Nature often does postpone the ceremony even to a much later
age;--sometimes, altogether forgets to accomplish it.

The squire continued to sip his claret; he had to think over the matter a while before he could
answer a statement so deliberately made by his son.

"I think I may say so," continued Frank, with perhaps unnecessary modesty. "She is so honest
that, had she not intended it, she would have said so honestly. Am I right, father, in thinking
that, as regards Mary, personally, you would not reject her as a daughter-in-law?"

"Personally!" said the squire, glad to have the subject presented to him in a view that enabled
him to speak out. "Oh, no; personally, I should not object to her, for I love her dearly. She
is a good girl. I do believe she is a good girl in every respect. I have always liked her;
liked to see her about the house. But--"

"I know what you would say, father." This was rather more than the squire knew himself. "Such
a marriage is imprudent."

"It is more than that, Frank; I fear it is impossible."

"Impossible! No, father; it is not impossible."

"It is impossible, Frank, in the usual sense. What are you to live upon? What would you do
with your children? You would not wish to see your wife distressed and comfortless."

"No, I should not like to see that."

"You would not wish to begin life as an embarrassed man and end it as a ruined man. If you
were now to marry Miss Thorne such would, I fear, doubtless be your lot."

Frank caught at the word "now." "I don't expect to marry immediately. I know that would be
imprudent. But I am pledged, father, and I certainly cannot go back. And now that I have told
you all this, what is your advice to me?"

The father again sat silent, still sipping his wine. There was nothing in his son that he could
be ashamed of, nothing that he could meet with anger, nothing that he could not love; but how
should he answer him? The fact was, that the son had more in him than the father; this his
mind and spirit were of a calibre not to be opposed successfully by the mind and spirit of
the squire.

"Do you know Mary's history?" said Mr Gresham, at last; "the history of her birth?"

"Not a word of it," said Frank. "I did not know she had a history."

"Nor does she know it; at least, I presume not. But you should know it now. And, Frank, I will
tell it you; not to turn you from her--not with that object, though I think that, to a certain
extent, it should have that effect. Mary's birth was not such as would become your wife and
be beneficial to your children."

"If so, father, I should have known that sooner. Why was she brought in here among us?"

"True, Frank. The fault is mine; mine and your mother's. Circumstances brought it about years
ago, when it never occurred to us that all this would arise. But I will tell you her history.
And, Frank, remember this, though I tell it you as a secret, a secret to be kept from all the
world but one, you are quite at liberty to let the doctor know that I have told you. Indeed,
I shall be careful to let him know myself should it ever be necessary that he and I should
speak together as to this engagement." The squire then told his son the whole story of Mary's
birth, as it is known to the reader.

Frank sat silent, looking very blank; he also had, as had every Gresham, a great love for his
pure blood. He had said to his mother that he hated money, that he hated the estate; but he
would have been very slow to say, even in his warmest opposition to her, that he hated the
roll of the family pedigree. He loved it dearly, though he seldom spoke of it;--as men of good
family seldom do speak of it. It is one of those possessions which to have is sufficient. A
man having it need not boast of what he has, or show it off before the world. But on that account
he values it more. He had regarded Mary as a cutting duly taken from the Ullathorne tree; not,
indeed, as a grafting branch, full of flower, just separated from the parent stalk, but as
being not a whit the less truly endowed with the pure sap of that venerable trunk. When, therefore,
he heard her true history he sat awhile dismayed.

"It is a sad story," said the father.

"Yes, sad enough," said Frank, rising from his chair and standing with it before him, leaning
on the back of it. "Poor Mary, poor Mary! She will have to learn it some day."

"I fear so, Frank;" and then there was again a few moments' silence.

"To me, father, it is told too late. It can now have no effect on me. Indeed," said he, sighing
as he spoke, but still relieving himself by the very sigh, "it could have had no effect had
I learned it ever so soon."

"I should have told you before," said the father; "certainly I ought to have done so."

"It would have been no good," said Frank. "Ah, sir, tell me this: who were Miss Dunstable's
parents? What was that fellow Moffat's family?"

This was perhaps cruel of Frank. The squire, however, made no answer to the question. "I have
thought it right to tell you," said he. "I leave all commentary to yourself. I need not tell
you what your mother will think."

"What did she think of Miss Dunstable's birth?" said he, again more bitterly than before. "No,
sir," he continued, after a further pause. "All that can make no change; none at any rate now.
It can't make my love less, even if it could have prevented it. Nor, even, could it do so--which
it can't least, not in the least--but could it do so, it could not break my engagement. I am
now engaged to Mary Thorne."

And then he again repeated his question, asking for his father's advice under the present circumstances.
The conversation was a very long one, as long as to disarrange all Lady Arabella's plans. She
had determined to take her son most stringently to task that very evening; and with this object
had ensconced herself in the small drawing-room which had formerly been used for a similar
purpose by the august countess herself. Here she now sat, having desired Augusta and Beatrice,
as well as the twins, to beg Frank to go to her as soon as he should come out of the dining-room.
Poor lady! there she waited till ten o'clock,--tealess. There was not much of the Bluebeard
about the squire; but he had succeeded in making it understood through the household that he
was not to be interrupted by messages from his wife during the post-prandial hour, which, though
no toper, he loved so well.

As a period of twelve months will now have to be passed over, the upshot of this long conversation
must be told in as few words as possible. The father found it impracticable to talk his son
out of his intended marriage; indeed, he hardly attempted to do so by any direct persuasion.
He explained to him that it was impossible that he should marry at once, and suggested that
he, Frank, was very young.

"You married, sir, before you were one-and-twenty," said Frank. Yes, and repented before I
was two-and-twenty. So did not say the squire.

He suggested that Mary should have time to ascertain what would be her uncle's wishes, and
ended by inducing Frank to promise, that after taking his degree in October he would go abroad
for some months, and that he would not indeed return to Greshamsbury till he was three-and-twenty.

"He may perhaps forget her," said the father to himself, as this agreement was made between them.

"He thinks that I shall forget her," said Frank to himself at the same time; "but he does not
know me."

When Lady Arabella at last got hold of her son she found that the time for her preaching was
utterly gone by. He told her, almost with sang-froid, what his plans were; and when she came
to understand them, and to understand also what had taken place at Boxall Hill, she could not
blame the squire for what he had done. She also said to herself, more confidently than the
squire had done, that Frank would quite forget Mary before the year was out. "Lord Buckish,"
said she to herself, rejoicingly, "is now with the ambassador at Paris"--Lord Buckish was her
nephew--"and with him Frank will meet women that are really beautiful--women of fashion. When
with Lord Buckish he will soon forget Mary Thorne."

But not on this account did she change her resolve to follow up to the furthest point her hostility
to the Thornes. She was fully enabled now to do so, for Dr Fillgrave was already reinstalled
at Greshamsbury as her medical adviser.

One other short visit did Frank pay to Boxall Hill, and one interview had he with Dr Thorne.
Mary told him all she knew of her own sad history, and was answered only by a kiss,--a kiss
absolutely not in any way by her to be avoided; the first, the only one, that had ever yet
reached her lips from his. And then he went away.

The doctor told him all the story. "Yes," said Frank, "I knew it all before. Dear Mary, dearest
Mary! Don't you, doctor, teach yourself to believe that I shall forget her." And then also
he went his way from him--went his way also from Greshamsbury, and was absent for the full
period of his allotted banishment--twelve months, namely, and a day.

CHAPTER XXXI

The Small End of the Wedge

Frank Gresham was absent from Greshamsbury twelve months and a day: a day is always added to
the period of such absences, as shown in the history of Lord Bateman and other noble heroes.
We need not detail all the circumstances of his banishment, all the details of the compact
that was made. One detail of course was this, that there should be no corresponding; a point
to which the squire found some difficulty in bringing his son to assent.

It must not be supposed that Mary Thorne or the doctor were in any way parties to, or privy
to these agreements. By no means. The agreements were drawn out, and made, and signed, and
sealed at Greshamsbury, and were known of nowhere else. The reader must not imagine that Lady
Arabella was prepared to give up her son, if only his love could remain constant for one year.
Neither did Lady Arabella consent to any such arrangement, nor did the squire. It was settled
rather in this wise: that Frank should be subjected to no torturing process, pestered to give
no promises, should in no way be bullied about Mary--that is, not at present--if he would go
away for a year. Then, at the end of the year, the matter should again be discussed. Agreeing
to this, Frank took his departure, and was absent as per agreement.

What were Mary's fortunes immediately after his departure must be shortly told, and then we
will again join some of our Greshamsbury friends at a period about a month before Frank's return.

When Sir Louis saw Frank Gresham standing by Mary's donkey, with his arms round Mary's knees,
he began to fear that there must be something in it. He had intended that very day to throw
himself at Mary's feet, and now it appeared to his inexperienced eyes as though somebody else
had been at the same work before him. This not unnaturally made him cross; so, after having
sullenly wished the visitor good-bye, he betook himself to his room, and there drank curaçoa
alone, instead of coming down to dinner.

This he did for two or three days, and then, taking heart of grace, he remembered that, after
all, he had very many advantages over young Gresham. In the first place, he was a baronet,
and could make his wife a "lady." In the next place, Frank's father was alive and like to live,
whereas his own was dead. He possessed Boxall Hill in his own right, but his rival had neither
house nor land of his own. After all, might it not be possible for him also to put his arm
round Mary's knees;--her knees, or her waist, or, perhaps, even her neck? Faint heart never
won fair lady. At any rate, he would try.

