M. Rochas speaks of an externalized consciousness which feels a touch. Within man is the plant
and machinery of all kinds of faculties, one is the perception of the spiritual. Had it been
trained like his sense of music, we should no longer be in the dark of despair over our dead.
The trend of thought to-day is to show man a spiritual being in a spiritual universe, that
death is merely transition. If not, then God is the Cosmic Murderer. The spiritual sense of
man is his faculty of response to the spiritual world around him, just as his musical sense
is his measure of response and his reception of the world of music around him. By some magic
in the red surge of war, this spiritual response is sharpened and quickened as every other
sense is, and the soldier sees visions. Man working within time and space is influenced by
what is beyond the one and the other, the full significance of this world would seem to be
in another scheme of things to which this is only the vestibule. The soul's wave movements
have their laws. In that soul is some fine Marconi-like instrument which registers impressions,
and from time to time receives spiritual warnings and perceives spiritual beings. Serious men
are now boldly investigating. Little help comes from the sectarians who seem to begrudge God
his universe; everything has to be cheapened to the worm's-eye view of little Bethel, which
steeped in politics has long lost sense of the spiritual. The old Greeks and Latins were acute
thinkers, yet they believed in spiritual beings and their appearances. It was only in the days
of cheap thinking that it required a special valour to express belief in the super-natural.
The fact is, most people are like the devils of scripture who "believe and tremble" without
admitting the authority of their belief. It is refreshing to find a writer like Mr. W. S. Lilley
in the Nineteenth Century professing his absolute belief in ghosts. To man, and it would appear
to man alone on this plane, it is given to explore the unknown and to establish the communion
of soul with soul.

After all it is a question of evidence. If a man say "I won't believe in anything super-natural
whatever the evidence may be," it is best to leave him to his folly. If he will accept the
evidence that would pass muster in a court of law, then you have a common ground, you can weigh
evidence. To me the evidence for spiritual appearances is overwhelming looking at it from the
strictly legal angle of vision.

In years gone by the scientific genius began with the assertion that everything must have had
a beginning, and to assert that there was a spiritual Being with no beginning was nonsense.
To the dim indistinct crowd such appeared to be clever reasoning. But our very consciousness
insists that there is something which had no beginning, and Reason adds, "else there could
be nothing now." For example, Space could not have had a beginning, that Duration could not,
that Truth could not, that somehow, somewhere these Three Eternals must have been co-eternal,
incomprehensible. And in this Trinity "none is afore or after the other," which recalls the
Athanasian Creed.

I cannot prove that Truth had no beginning, yet my consciousness tells me at no period was
it laid down as something new, that the shortest distance between two points would be a straight
line. No mathematician has ever proved that there is no boundary to space, but something within
me tells me that there can be no such boundary. Even Reason tells me that an impassable boundary
would only serve to indicate the unlimited extension beyond.

In all ages we have the mystic. Now the mystic is common to all religions. He is the man who
has felt the touch of spiritual beings, the call of Heavenly things, and we have to explain
him. In seeking to do this we shall realize some of the truth of the things soldiers see which
we have called "The Weird in War."

V

ANGELS

The evidence for the existence and the appearance of angels does not rest on the testimony
merely of men who fought at Mons. But even that evidence which is accepted by the talented
author of The Bowmen requires some explaining away and he admits that there is a difficulty
in ignoring it. But there is the accumulating evidence of the ages. When we have explained
away the soldiers' delusions, we have to confront those of the world's wisest sons--giants
in thought. We have to confront the fact that all great religions have the theory of angels.

After all, every good thought may be the whisper of an angel, every beautiful prospect may
be but the glint of the wing, every ray of light and heat but the waving of the robes of those
higher spiritual intelligences which rush hither and thither on God's service, whose faces
see God in Heaven. Such a belief is just as sound, and far more philosophical than any of the
guesses I have read so far, given us as "explanation" of such phenomena.

I am in hearty agreement with much that Mr. Arthur Machen writes in his book The Bowmen. It
is a book everyone should read. That splendid story of failure and triumph, the Retreat from
Mons, prompted him to write a story on an Angelic Host coming to the aid of the British force.
He wrote it after the manner of the journalist who is an eye-witness of the event. Many people
still believe what they read in the newspapers; and many people believed his story. But he
is altogether wrong when he imagines that he is the author of the belief in Angelic visions.
I was in France hearing stories of angelic intervention long before Mr. Machen wrote his delightful
yarn. A frog might as well imagine that his croak is responsible for the whole world of music,
as to postulate that his story gave rise to the theory of Angels. Men had visions of such long
before the first stone of our venerable shrine at Westminster was laid, before the Romans built
their first mud huts in the valley of the Tiber, before the Pyramids raised their terrific
greatness to the heavens. So Mr. Machen need not concern himself on that score.

The Anglican Church has failed dismally to keep before people the teaching of the Church in
regard to Angels and Angelic intervention in the affairs of men. There I am in entire agreement
with Mr. Machen. Soldiers tell their stories of angels and a few bishops cackle; but not one
of them dares to speak of the fuller belief of the Church in angels and the soul-inspiring
mystery of the Communion of Saints, the inter-relationship between those on the earth-plane
and those who have passed to the higher life. The hardworking priest in the slums fearlessly
proclaims this one sacrament of life with the Divine Life, his belief in angels and their help,
in saints and their prayers, and because he believes he is able to work under conditions which
make life for a cultured man almost intolerable. But he works, thankful to be left alone by
his bishop: for war has declared a close time for ritualistic curates. But the soldier whose
patriotism he has nurtured writes home to him telling frankly his experiences, his dreams,
his visions. I have seen many of these letters. The writers are not liars nor are they hysterical
subjects, but fine specimens of healthy manhood. Here and there a dissenting divine has raised
his voice to declare there may be something in these stories of angels, but the dissenting
pulpit is under the despotism of the pew and cry of "Rome" is enough. "Honest doubt" is always
sure of a sympathetic audience, "honest belief" is greeted with the cry of superstition or
the cuckoo cry of "Popery."

A soldier sees something super-natural. Some one says I know a hundred or a thousand soldiers
who did not see it. A man may witness a murder. His evidence is accepted in the law courts.
They do not call the hundred thousand people who did not see it in proof that no murder was
perpetrated. Few people know the fundamental principles of evidence. More people misuse it.

VI

FELLOWSHIP WITH THE UNSEEN

Religion is man's fellowship with the Unseen, and it would seem that bishops and various crank
divines are determined that such a belief shall be discouraged. Man's nature has upon it the
Hall Marks of Heaven. Woven into man's anatomical texture we find faculties that transcend
this world, that are for ever intent upon the waves that beat upon us from another shore. He
sees the coastline of another world to which he commits his dead. We call such people Mystics,
Catholics, Seers, etc. They are the people who have had touch with the Unseen. After all, the
people with actual personal experience of spiritual power, who shape their lives by their experience
are the real assets of belief.

Man may or may not be sprung from the beast, he may or may not have been raised from slime.
Man's spirit did not arise in slime, that at all events came from a race of flame. Dust will
not account for everything.

The Church in its greatest office of all, the Communion Service, claims to worship in union
with "Angels and Archangels and with all the Company of Heaven." Having proclaimed this tremendous
fact the Church, for the most part leaves it, and bishops view any further annunciation of
the fact with suspicion and sometimes with threats.

On one solemn day in the year the Church invokes S. Michael and all Angels. S. Michael's Mass
as it is still called. The old teaching of the Church bids us lift our eyes to behold those
more intimate intelligences which stand nearer the Great and Central Mystery. When a soldier
stumbles by chance upon one of those higher beings he is regarded as the victim of hallucination,
of superstition or drink or all of them. A chaplain with dull German Protestantism obscuring
his view of spiritual things treats him as some unclean thing. Dissent in England for years
has been synonymous with pro-Germanism. It has been at war with the historic creed of Christendom.
It was better for their aims that angels should not exist.

Before dull German Protestantism with its gross materialism raised the plentiful crop of sects
in England, our country was known through Europe as "Merrie England." Our people loved the
festival of S. Michael. S. Michael's Mass was a red letter day. The Communion and Inter-Communion
of earth with heaven was emphasized. Families met that day to pray and feast, lovers plighted
their troth, gatherings of relatives and friends was the rule, joy was the key-note. Then dissent
raised its ugly head, dissent that had its birth in Germany. These kill-joys got the upper
hand. The recognition of the Christ-Mass, Christmas and the Michael-Mass, Michaelmas, was put
down by law. Dissent has never hesitated to use compulsion when it lay ready to hand to enforce
materialism. So belief in angels well nigh ceased to exist. To-day the revival comes from actual
experience rather than from church teaching. The antagonism to such belief amounts to unreasonable
heights of folly. Luther has so long occupied the place of Christ that dissent has forgotten
what Christ taught us in regard to angels. We ignore the fact that He claimed to have seen
angels, and to have had their help and ministration. When politics mix with religion, spirituality
dies, there is no vision, for there is little belief and less sincerity. No wonder the soldier's
vision of angels strikes them as something altogether beyond the pale of belief.

