November 7th. Hella and I are very stand-offish. We walk together, but we only talk of everyday
things, school and lessons, nothing else. We went skating to-day for the first time and we
shall go whenever we have time, which is not very often. Mother is working at the table cloth.
It's very hard work but she has not got as much to do as we have.

November 8th. There was such a lovely young lady skating to-day, and she skates so beautifully,
inside and outside edge and figures of 8. I skated along behind her. When she went to the cloak
room there was such a lovely scent. I wonder if she is going to be married soon and whether
she knows all about everything. She is so lovely and she pushes back the hair from her forehead
so prettily. I wish I were as pretty as she is. But I am dark and she is fair. I wish I could
find out her name and where she lives. I must go skating again to-morrow; do my lessons in
the evening.

November 9th. I'm so upset; she didn't come to skate. I'm afraid she may be ill.

November 10th. She didn't come to-day either. I waited two hours, but it was no good.

November 11th. She came to-day, at last! Oh how pretty she is.

November 12th. She has spoken to me. I was standing near the entrance gate and suddenly I heard
some one laughing behind me and I knew directly: That is she! So it was. She came up and said:
Shall we skate together? Please, if I may, said I, and we went off together crossing arms.
My heart was beating furiously, and I wanted to say something, but couldn't think of anything
sensible to say. When we came back to the entrance a gentleman stood there and took off his
hat and she bowed, and she said to me: Till next time. I said quickly: When? Tomorrow? Perhaps,
she called back. . . . Only perhaps, perhaps, oh I wish it were to-morrow already.

November 13th. Inspee declares that her name is Anastasia Klastoschek. I'm sure it can't be
true that she has such a name, she might be called Eugenie or Seraphine or Laura, but Anastasia,
impossible. Why are there such horrid names? Fancy if she is really called that. Klastoschek,
too, a Czech name, and she is supposed to come from Moravia and to be 26 already; 26, absurd,
she's 18 at most. I'm sure she's not so much as 18. Dora says she lives in Phorusgasse, and
that she doesn't think her particularly pretty. Of course that's rank jealousy; Dora thinks
no one pretty except herself.

November 14th. I asked the woman at the pay box, her name really is Anastasia Klastoschek and
she lives in the Phorusgasse; but the woman didn't know how old she is. She would not tell
me at first but asked why I wanted to know and who had sent me to enquire. She wouldn't look
into the book until I told her that it was only for myself that I wanted to know. Then she
looked, for I knew the number of the cloak room locker: 36, a lovely number, I like it so much.
I don't really know why, but when I hear anyone say that number it sounds to me like a squirrel
jumping about in the wood.

November 20th. It's really impossible to write every day. Mother is ill in bed and the doctor
comes every day, but I don't really know what's the matter with her. I'm not sure whether the
doctor knows exactly. When Mother is ill everything at home is so uncomfortable and she always
says: Whatever you do don't get ill, for it's such a nuisance. But I don't mind being ill;
indeed I rather like being ill, for then everyone's so nice, when Father comes home he comes
and sits by my bed and even Dora is rather nice and does things for me; that is she has to.
Besides, when she had diptheria two years ago I did everything I could for her, she nearly
died, her temperature went up to 107 and Mother was sick with crying. Father never cries. It
must look funny when a man cries. When there was all that row about Oswald he cried, I think
Father had given him a box on the ear. He said he hadn't but I think he had; certainly he cried,
though he said he didn't. After all, why shouldn't he for he's not really grown up yet. I cry
myself when I get frightfully annoyed. Still I shouldn't cry for a box on the ear.

November 21st. In the religion lesson to-day Lisel Schrotter who is the Herr Catechist's favourite,
no we've got to call him Herr Professor, as she is the Herr Professor's favourite, well she
went to him with the Bible and asked him what with child meant. That's what they say of Mary
in the Bible. The Schrotter girl does not know anything yet and the other girls egged her on
till she went and asked. The Herr Professor got quite red and said: If you don't know yet it
does not matter. We shall come to that later, we're still in the Old Testament. I was so glad
that Hella does not sit next me in the religion lesson, because she's a Protestant; we should
certainly have both burst out laughing. Some of the girls giggled frightfully and the Herr
Professor said to Lisel: You're a good girl, don't bother about the others. But Lisel positively
howled. I would not have asked, even if I hadn't really known. With child is a stupid word
anyhow, it doesn't mean anything really; only if one knows.

November 22nd. When I was coming away from the religion lesson with Berta Franke the other
day, of course we began talking about it. She says that's why people marry, only because of
it. I said I could not believe that people marry only for that. Lots of people marry and then
have no children. That's all right said Berta, but it's quite true what I tell you. Then she
told me a lot more but I really can't write it all down. It is too horrid, but I shan't forget.
When I was sitting on Mother's bed to-day I suddenly realised that Father's bed is really quite
close to Mother's. I had never thought about it before. But it's not really necessary now for
we are all quite big. Still I suppose they've just left things as they were. Well dear, said
Mother, what are you looking round so for? Of course I didn't let on, but said: I was only
looking round and thinking that if your bed was where the washstand is you could see to read
better when you are lying in bed. That would not do because the wall's all wrong said Mother.
I said nothing more and she didn't either. I like much better to sleep on a sofa than in a
bed, because I like to snuggle up against the back. I'm so glad Mother didn't notice anything.
One has to be so frightfully careful not to give oneself away when one knows everything.

November 25th. I have just been reading a lovely story; it is called A True Heart and is about
a girl whose betrothed has had to leave her because he has shot a man who was spying on him.
But Rosa remains true to him till he comes back after 10 years and then they marry. It's simply
splendid and frightfully sad at first. I do love these library books, but when we were at the
elementary school I knew all the books they had and the mistress never knew what to give me
and Hella. In the high school we get only one book a month, for the Frau Doktor says we have
plenty of work to do, and that when we are not at work we ought to be out in the fresh air.
I can't manage to go skating every day. I do love the Gold Fairy, that is my name for her,
for I hate her real name. Inspee declares that they call her Stasi for short, but I don't believe
that; most likely they call her Anna, but that's so common. Thank goodness Hella always calls
me Rita, so at school I'm known as Rita. It's only at home that they will call me Gretl. The
other day I said to Inspee: If you want me to call you Thea you must call me Rita; and anyhow
I won't let you call me Gretl, that's what they call a little girl or a peasant girl. She said:
I don't care tuppence what you call me. All right, then, she shall be Dora till the end of time.

November 27th. Father has been made Appeal Court Judge. He is awfully glad and so is Mother.
The news came yesterday evening. Now he can become President of the Supreme Court, not directly,
but in a few years. We shall probably move to a larger house in May. Inspee said to Mother
that she hoped she would have her own room where she would not be disturbed. How absurd, who
disturbs her, I suppose I do? Much more like she disturbs me, always watching while I'm writing
my diary. Hella always says: "There really ought not to be any elder sisters;" she's jolly
well right. It's a pity we can't alter things. Mother says we are really too big to keep St.
Nicholas, but I don't see why one should ever be too big for that. Last year Inspee got something
from St. Nicholas when she was 13 and I'm not 12 yet. All we get are chocolates and sweets
and dates and that sort of thing, not proper presents. The girls want to give the Frau Doktor
a great Krampus * to leave it on her desk. I think that's silly. It's not a proper present
for a teacher one is really fond of, one doesn't want to waste sweets on a teacher one doesn't
like, and to give an empty Krampus would be rude. Mother is really right and a Krampus is only
suitable for children.

     * Krampus=Ruprechtsknecht, i.e. a little Demon, who serves
     St. Nicholas, and is a bogey man to carry off naughty children
     An image of this Demon filled with sweets, is given as a present
     on the feast of St. Nicholas which inaugurates the Christmas
     season.--Translators' Note.

December 1st. We are giving everyone of the staff a Krampus, each of us is to subscribe a crown,
I hope Father will give me the crown extra. Perhaps he'll give us more pocket money now, at
least another crown, that would be splendid. We are going to give big Krampuses to the ones
we like best, and: small ones to those we are not so fond of. We're afraid to give one to Professor
J. But if he doesn't get one perhaps he'll be offended.

December 2nd. To-day we went to buy Krampuses for the staff. The one for Frau Doktor M. is
the finest. When you open it the first thing you see is little books with Schiller, Goethe,
and Fairy Tales written on the backs, and then underneath these are the sweets. That's exactly
suited for her, for the Frau Doktor teaches German and in the Fourth in German they are reading
these poets. Last month in the Fourth they had a Schiller festival and Frau Doktor made a splendid
speech and some of the girls gave recitations. Besides Hella has shown me an awful poem by
Schiller. There you can read: if only I could catch her in the bath, she would cry for mercy,
for I would soon show the girl that I am a man. And then in another place: "To my mate in God's
likeness I can show that which is the source of life." But you can only find that in the large
editions of Schiller. I believe we've got some books of that sort in our bookcase, for when
Inspee was rummaging there the other day Mother called from the next room: "Dora, what are
you hunting for in the bookcase? I can tell you where it is." And she said: Oh, it's nothing,
I was just looking for something, and shut the door quickly.

December 4th. The girls are so tiresome and have made such a muddle about the Krampuses for
the staff. The money didn't come out right and Keller said that Markus had taken some but Markus
said not taken only kept. Of course Markus complained to Frau Doktor and her father went to
the head and complained too. Frau Doktor said we know quite well that collections are not allowed
and that we must not give any one a Krampus. Now Keller has the five Krampuses and we don't
know what to do about it. Mother says that sort of thing never turns out well but always ends
in a quarrel.

December 5th. We are in such a funk: Hella and I and Edith Bergler have taken the Krampus which
we bought for Frau Doktor M. and put it on her doorstep. Edith Bergler knew where she lived
for she comes by there every day on her way to school. I wonder if she'll guess where the Krampus
comes from. I did not know that Edith Bergler was such a nice girl, I always thought she must
be deceitful because she wears spectacles. But now I'm quite certain she is not deceitful,
so one sees how easy it is to make a mistake. To-morrow's our German lesson.

December 6th. Frau Doktor did not say anything at first. Then she gave out the subject for
the essay: "Why once I could not go to sleep at night." The girls were all taken aback, and
then Frau Doktor said: Now girls that's not so very difficult. One person cannot go to sleep
because he's just going to be ill, another because he is excited by joy or fear. Another has
an uneasy conscience because he has done something which he has been forbidden to do; have
not all of you experienced something of the kind? Then she looked frightfully hard at Edith
Bergler and us two. She did not say anything more, so we don't really know if she suspects.
I couldn't go to the ice carnival yesterday because I had such a bad cough, and Dora couldn't
go either because she had a headache; I don't know whether it was a real headache or that kind
of headache; but I expect it was that kind.

December 17th. I haven't managed to write anything for a whole week. The day before yesterday
we had our Christmas reports: In history I had satisfactory, in Natural History good, in everything
else very good. In diligence because of that stupid Vischer I had only a 2. Father was very
angry; he says everyone can get a 1 in diligence. That's true enough, but if one has satisfactory
in anything then one can't get a 1 for diligence. Inspee of course had only 1's, except a 2
in English. But then she's a frightful swot. Verbenowitsch is the best in our class, but we
can't any of us bear her, she's so frantically conceited and Berta Franke says she's not to
be trusted. Berta walks to school with her cousin who's in the seventh; she's nearly 14, and
is awfully pretty. She didn't say what sort of a report she had, but I believe it was a very
bad one.

December 18th. To-day at supper Dora fainted because she found a little chicken in her egg,
not really a chicken yet, but one could make out the wings and the head, just a sketch of a
chicken Father said. Still, I really can't see what there was to faint about. Afterwards she
said it had made her feel quite creepy. And she'll never be able to eat another egg. At first
Father was quite frightened and so was Mother, but then he laughed and said: What a fuss about
nothing! She had to go and lie down at once and I stayed downstairs for a long time. When I
came up to our room she was reading, that is I saw the light through the crack in the door;
but when I opened the door it was all dark and when I asked: Ah so you're still reading she
didn't answer and she pretended to wake up when I switched on the light and said: What's the
matter? I can't stand such humbug so I said: Shut up, you know quite well it's 9 o-clock. That's
all. On our way to school to-day we didn't Speak a word to one another. Luckily after awhile
we met a girl belonging to her class.

December 19th. I'm frightfully excited to know what I'm going to get for Christmas. What I've
wished for is: A set of white furs, boa, muff, and velvet cap trimmed with the same fur, acme
skates because mine are always working loose, German sagas, not Greek; no thank you, hair ribbons,
openwork stockings, and if possible a gold pin like the one Hella got for a birthday present.
But Father says that our Christ Child would find that rather too expensive. Inspee wants a
corset. But I don't think she'll get one because it's unhealthy. The tablecloth for Father
is finished and is being trimmed, but Mother's book cover is not quite ready yet. I'm giving
Dora a little manicure case. Oh, and I'd nearly forgotten what I want more than anything else,
a lock-up box in which to keep my diary. Dora wants some openwork stockings too and three books.
A frightful thing happened to me the other day. I left one of the pages of my diary lying about
or lost one somehow or other. When I came home Inspee said: "you've lost this, haven't you?
School notes I suppose?" I didn't notice what it was for a moment, but then I saw by the look
of it and said: Yes, those are school notes. Hm-m-m, said Inspee, not exactly that are they?
You can thank your stars that I've not shown them to Mother. Besides people who can't spell
yet really ought not to keep diaries. It's not suitable for children. I was in a wax. In the
closet I took a squint to see what mistakes I had made. There was only wenn with one n instead
of double n and dass with short ss's, that's all. I was jolly glad that there was nothing about
her on the page. She'd underlined the n and the short ss's with red, just as if she was a schoolmistress,
infernal cheek! The best would be to have a book with a lock to it, which one could alway keep
locked, then no one could read any of it and underline one's mistakes in red. I often write
so fast that it's easy to make a slip now and again. As if she never made a mistake. The whole
thing made me furious. But I can't say anything about it because of Mother, at least on the
way to school; but no, if I say nothing at all then she always gets more waxy than ever. If
I were to say much about it Mother might remember those 5 pages I lost in the country and I'd
rather not thank you.

December 22nd. Aunt Dora came to-day. She's going to stay with us for a time till Mother is
quite well again. I didn't remember her at all, for I was only four or five when she went away
from Vienna. You dear little black beetle she said to me and gave me a kiss. I didn't like
the black much, but Hella says that suits me, that it's piquant. Piquant is what the officers
always say of her cousin in Krems, Father says she is a beauty, and she's dark like me. But
I'd rather be fair, fair with brown eyes or better still with violet eyes. Shall I grow up
a beauty? Oh I do hope I shall!

December 23rd. I am frightfully excited about to-morrow. I wonder what I shall get? Now I must
go and decorate the Christmas tree. Inspee said: Hullo, is Gretl going to help decorate this
year? She's never done it before! I should like to know why not. But Aunt Dora took my side.
"Of course she'll help decorate too; but please don't stuff yourselves with sweets." "If Dora
doesn't eat anything I shan't either," said I promptly.

Evening. Yesterday was our last day at school. The holidays are from the 23rd to January 2nd.
It's glorious. I shall be able to go skating every day. Of course I had no time to-day and
shan't have to--morrow. I wonder whether I should send the Gold Fairy a Christmas card. I wish
she had a prettier name. Anastasia Klastoschek; it is so ugly. All Czech names are so ugly.
Father knows a Count Wilczek, but a still worse name is Schafgotsch. Nothing would induce me
to marry anyone called Schafgotsch or Wilczek even if he were a count and a millionaire. Yesterday
we paid our respects to the staff, Verbenowitsch and I went to Frau Doktor because she is fondest
of us, or is said to be. Nobody wanted to go to Professor Rigl, Igel, we always say Nikel,
for when he has respects paid to him he always says: "Aw ri'." But it would have been rude
to leave him out and so the monitors had to go. When Christmas was drawing near Frau Doktor
told us that we were none of us to give presents to the staff. "I beg you, girls, to bear in
mind what I am saying, for if you do not there will only be trouble. You remember what happened
on St. Nicholas' day. And you must not send anything to the homes of the staff, nor must the
Christ Child leave anything on any one's doorstep." As she said this she looked hard at me
and Edith Bergler, so she knows who left the Krampus. I'm so tired I can't keep my eyes open.
Hurrah, to-morrow is Christmas Eve!!!

December 24th. Christmas Eve afternoon is horrid. One does not know what to be at. I'm not
allowed to go skating so the best thing is to write. Oswald came home yesterday. Everyone says
he's looking splendid; I think he's awfully pale and he snorted when everyone said he had such
a fine colour; of course, how can he look well when he has such a heartache. I wish I could
tell him that I understand what he feels, but he's too proud to accept sympathy from me. He
has wished for an army revolver for Christmas, but I don't think he'll get one for boys at
the middle school are not allowed to have any firearms. Not long ago at a Gymnasium in Galicia
one of the boys shot a master out of revenge; they said it was because the boy was getting
on badly with his work, but really it was about a girl, although the master was 36 years old.
This morg. I was in town with Oswald shopping; we met the Warths, Elli and . . . Robert. Oswald
said that Elli was quite nice-looking but that Robert was an ugly beast. Besides, he can't
stand him he said, because he glared at me so. If only he knew what happened in the summer!
I was awfully condescending to Robert and that made him furious. If one could only save you
girls from all the troubles which the world calls "Love," said Oswald on the way home. I was
just going to say "I know that you're unhappy in love and I can feel for you," when Inspee
came round the corner of the Bognergasse with her chum and 2 officers were following them,
so none of them saw us. "Great Scott, Frieda's full-fledged now," said Oswald, "she's a little
tart." I can't stand that sort of vulgarity so I did not say another word all the way home.
He noticed and said to Mother: "Gretl's mouth has been frozen up from envy." That's all. But
it was really disgusting of him and now I know what line to take.

Just a moment for a word or two. The whole Christmas Eve has gone to pot. A commissionaire
came with a bouquet for Dora and Father is fuming. I wish I knew who sent it. I wonder if it
was one of those 2 officers? Of course Inspee says she has not the ghost of an idea. What surprises
me is that Oswald has not given her away. All he said was: I say, what a lark! But Father was
down on him like anything, "You hold your jaw and think of your own beastly conduct." I didn't
envy him; I don't think much of Dora's looks myself, but apparently she pleases someone. In
the bouquet there was a poem and Dora got hold of it quickly before Father had seen it. It
was awfully pretty, and it was signed: One for whom you have made Christmas beautiful! The
heading is: "The Magic Season." I think Dora's splendid not to give herself away; even to me
she declares she does not know who sent it; but of course that may be all humbug. I think it
really comes from young Perathoner, with whom she's always skating.

December 28th. I've had absolutely no time to write. I got everything I wanted. Aunt Dora gave
both of us an opera glass in mother-of-pearl in a plush case. We are going to all the school
performances, Father's arranged it; he has subscribed to all the performances during the school
year 19-- to 19--. I am so delighted for Frau Doktor M. will come too. I do hope I shall sit
next to her.

December 31st. To-day I wanted to read through all I have written, but I could not manage it
but in the new year I really must write every day.

January 1st, 19--. I must write a few sentences at least. For the afternoon we had been invited
to the Rydberg's the Warths were there and Edle von Wernhoff!! I was just the same as usual
with Lisel but I would not say a word to R. They left before us, and then Heddy asked me what
was wrong between me and R. He had said of me: Any one can have the black goose for me. Then
he said that any one could take me in. I was so stupid that I would believe anything. I can't
think what he meant, for he never took me in about anything. Anyhow I would not let him spoil
new year's day for me. But Hella is quite right for if the first person one meets on January
1st is a common person that's a bad beginning. The first thing this morning when I went out
I met our old postman who's always so grumpy if he's kept waiting at the door. I looked the
other way directly and across the street a fine young gentleman was passing, but it was no
good for the common postman had really been the first.

January 12th. I am so angry. We mayn't go skating any more because Inspee has begun to complain
again of her silly old ears and Mother imagines that she got her earache last year skating.
It's all right to keep her at home; but why shouldn't I go? How can I help it when she gets
a chill so easily? In most things Father is justice itself, but I really can't understand him
this time. It's simply absurd, only it's too miserable to call it absurd. I'm in a perfect
fury. Still, I don't say anything.

February 12th. I have not written for a whole month, I've been working so hard. To-day we got
our reports. Although I've been working so frightfully hard, again I only got a 2 in Diligence.
Frau Doktor M. made a splendid speech and said: As you sow, so you shall reap. But that's not
always true. In Natural History I did not know my lesson twice but I got a 1, and in History
I only did not know my lesson once and I got Satisfactory. Anyhow Fraulein V. does not like
me because of that time when I did not bow to her in the tram. That is why in January, when
Mother asked about me, she said: "She does not really put her back into her work." I overheard
Father say: After all she's only a kid, but to-day he made a frightful row about the 2 in Diligence.
He might have known why she gave me that. Dora, so she says, has only ones, but she has not
shown me the report. I don't believe what I don't see. And Mother never gives her away to me.

February 15th. Father is furious because Oswald has an Unsatisfactory in Greek. Greek is really
no use; for no one uses Greek, except the people who live in Greece and Oswald will never go
there, if he is going to be a judge like Father. Of course Dora learns Latin; but not for me
thank you. Hella's report is not particularly good and her father was in a perfect fury!!!
He says she ought to have a better report than any one else. She does not bother much and says:
One can't have everything. But if she doesn't get nothing but ones in the summer term she is
not to stay at the high school and will have to go to the middle school. That'll make her sit
up. Father's awfully funny too: What have you got history books for, if you don't read them?
Yesterday when I was reading my album of stories, Father came in and said: You like a story
book better than a history book, and shut the book up and took it away from me. I was in such
a temper that I went to bed at 7 o'clock without any supper.

February 20th. I met the Gold Fairy to-day. She spoke to me and asked why I did not come skating
any more. The fancy dress Ice Carnival on the 24th was splendid she said. I said: Would you
believe it, a year ago my sister had an earache, and for that reason they won't allow either
of us to skate this year. She laughed like anything and said so exquisitely: Oh, what a wicked
sister. She looked perfectly ravishing: A red-brown coat and skirt trimmed with fur, sable
I believe, and a huge brown beaver hat with crepe-de-chine ribbons, lovely. And her eyes and
mouth. I believe she will marry the man who is always going about with her. Next autumn, when
we get new winter clothes, I shall have a fur trimmed red-brown. We must not always be dressed
alike. Hella and Lizzi are never dressed alike.

March 8th. I shall never say another word to Berta Franker she's utterly false. I've such a
frightful headache because I cried all through the lesson. She wrote to Hella and me in the
arithmetic lesson: A Verhaltnis ** means something quite different. Just at that moment the
mistress looked across and said: To whom were you nodding? She said: To Lainer. Because she
laughed at the word "Verhaltnis." It was not true. I had not thought about the word at all.
It wasn't till I had read the note that it occurred to Hella and me what Verhaltnis means.
After the lesson Fraulein St. called us down into the teachers' room and told Frau Doktor M.
that Franke and I had laughed at the use of the word "Verhaltnis." Frau Doktor said: What was
there to laugh at? Why did you not just do your sums? Fraulein St. said: You ought to be ashamed
of yourselves, young girls in the first class shouldn't know anything about such things. I
shall have to speak to your mothers. In the German lesson Frau Doktor M. told us to write an
essay on the proverb: Pure the heart and true the word, clear the brow and free the eye, these
are our safeguards, or something of that sort; I must get Hella to write it for me, for I was
crying all through the lesson.

     ** The German word Verhaltnis as used in the arithmetic lesson
     means ratio, proportion. The word is in common use in
     Germany for a love intimacy or liaison.--Translators' Note.

March 10th. To-day Berta Franke wanted to talk things out with us; but Hella and I told her
we would not speak to her again. We told her to remember what sort of things she had said to
us. She denied it all already. We shouldn't be such humbugs. It was mean of her. Really we
didn't know anything and she told us all about it. Hella has told me again and again she wished
we didn't know anything. She says she's always afraid of giving herself away and that she often
thinks about that sort of thing when she ought to be learning her lessons. So do I. And one
often dreams about such things at night when one has been talking about them in the afternoon.
Still, it's better to know all about it.

March 22nd. I so seldom manage to write anything, first of all our lessons take such a lot
of time, and second because I don't care about it any more since what Father said the other
day. The last time I wrote was on Saturday afternoon, and Father came in and said: Come along
children, we'll go to Schonbrunn. That will do you more good than scribbling diaries which
you only go and lose when you've written them. So Mother told Father all about it in the holidays.
I couldn't have believed it of Mother for I begged her to promise not to tell anyone. And she
said: One doesn't promise about a thing like that; but I won't tell anyone. And now she must
have told about it, although she said she wouldn't. Even Franke's deceitfulness was nothing
to that for after all we've only known her since last autumn, but I could never have believed
that Mother would do such a thing. I told Hella when we were having tea at the Tivoli and she
said she would not altogether trust her mother, she'd rather trust her father. But if that
had happened to her, her father would have boxed her ears with the diary. I did not want to
show anything, but in the evening I only gave Mother quite a little kiss. And she said, what's
the matter, dear? has anything happened? Then I could not keep it in and I cried like anything
and said: You've betrayed me. And Mother said: "I?" Yes, you; you told Father about the diary
though you promised me you wouldn't. At first Mother didn't remember anything about it, but
soon she remembered and said: "But, little one, I tell Father everything. All you meant was
that Dora was not to know." That's quite true, it's all right that Dora wasn't told; but still
Father need not have been told either. And Mother was awfully sweet and nice and I didn't go
to bed till 10 o'clock. But whatever happens I shan't tell her anything again and I don't care
about the old diary any more. Hella says: Don't be stupid; I ought just to go on writing; but
another time I should be careful not to lose anything, and besides I should not blab everything
to Mother and Father. She says she no longer tells her mother anything since that time in the
summer when her mother gave her a box on the ear because that other girl had told her all about
everything. It's quite true, Hella is right, I'm just a child still in the way I run to Mother
and tell her everything. And it's not nice of Father to tease me about my diary; I suppose
he never kept one himself.

March 27th. Hurrah we're going to Hainfeld for Easter; I am so delighted. Mother has a friend
there whose husband is doctor there, so she has to live there all the year round. Last year
in the winter she and Ada stayed three days with us because her eyes were bad. Ada is really
nearly as old as Dora, but Dora said, like her cheek: "Her intellectual level makes her much
more suitable company for you than for me." Dora thinks herself cleverer than anyone else.
They have 2 boys, but I don't know them very well for they are only 8 and 9. Mother's friend
was in an asylum once, for she went off her head when her 2 year old baby died. I remember
it quite well. It must have been more than 2 years ago when Father and Mother were always talking
of poor Anna who had lost her child within 3 days. And I believed she had really lost it, and
once I asked whether they had found it yet. I thought it had been lost in the forest, because
there's such a great forest at Hainfeld. And since then I can't bear to hear people say lost
when they mean dead, for it is so difficult to know which they really mean.

On the 8th of April the Easter holidays will begin and we shall go on the 11th, on Maundy Thursday.

April 6th. I don't know what to do about writing my diary. I don't want to take it with me
and as for remembering everything and writing it down afterwards I know quite well I should
never do that. Hella says I should only jot it down in outline, that's what Frau Doktor M.
always says, and write it out properly after I come back from Hainfeld. That's what she does.
They are going to the Brioni Islands. I've never seen the sea. Hella says there's nothing so
wonderful about it. She's been there four times. Anyway she does not think so much of it as
most people do. So it can't be anything so frightfully grand. Rather stupid I dare say.

April 12th. We got here yesterday. Ada is a darling but the two boys are awfully vulgar. Ernstl
said to Ada: I shall give you a smack on the a---- if you don't give me my pistol directly.
Ada is as tall as her mother. Their speech is rather countrified Even the doctor's. He drinks
a frightful lot of beer; quarts I believe.

April 14th. Father came to-day. He's awfully fond of the doctor. They kissed one another. It
did make me laugh. In the morning we were in the forest; but there are no violets yet, only
a few snowdrops, but a tremendous lot of hellebores quite red.

April 15th. We got up at 4 yesterday morning. We did not go into the church for Mother was
afraid that the smell of incense and boots would make Dora feel bad. What rot! It was lovely.
This afternoon we are going to Ramsau, it's lovely there.

April 16th. Father went home to-day. We go home to-morrow. At Whitsuntide Ada's mother is going
to bring her to be confirmed. They are all coming to stay with us. I got stuck in a bog on
the bank of the Ramsau. It was awful. But the doctor pulled me out and then we did all laugh
so when we saw what my shoes and stockings were like. Luckily I was able to catch hold of a
tree stump or I should have sunk right in.

April 18th. Hella says it was splendid at the Brioni Islands. She is frightfully sunburned.
I don't like that, so I shall never go to the south. Hella says that if one marries in winter
one must spend one's honeymoon in the south. That would not suit me, I should just put off
my marriage till the summer.

Ada is only 13 not 14 like Dora, and the parish priest makes a tremendous fuss because she's
not confirmed yet. Her mother is going to bring her to be confirmed soon. We are not going
to be confirmed because Father and Mother don't want to be bothered with it. Still I should
like to be confirmed, for then one has to have a watch, and one can ask for something else
at Christmas.

April 21st. Our lessons are something frightful just now. The school inspector is coming soon.
It's always very disagreeable. Mme A. says: The inspection is for the staff not for the pupils.
Still, it's horrid for the pupils too first of all because we get blamed at the time and secondly
because the staff makes such a frightful row about it afterwards. Dora says that a bad inspection
can make one's report 2 degrees worse. By the way, that reminds me that I have not yet written
why Oswald did not come home at Easter. Although his reports were not at all good, he was allowed
to go to Aunt Alma's at Pola, because this year Richard comes home for the holidays for the
last time. After that he's going away for three years in the steamship "Ozean" to the East
or Turkey or Persia, I don't quite know where. If Oswald likes he can go into the Navy too
in two years.

May 9th. The school inspector came to-day, first of all in natural history, thank goodness
I wasn't in for it that time, and then in German; I was in that, reading and in the table of
contents of the Wandering Bells. Thank goodness I got through all right.

May 14th. It's Mother's birthday to-day. We've had simply no time to work anything for her,
so we got a wonderful electric lamp for her bed table, the switch is a bunch of grapes and
the stand is made of brass. She was so pleased with it. Yesterday Frau v. R. was here. She's
a friend of Mother's and of Hella's mother. I should like to have music lessons from Frau v.
R., she gives lessons since her husband who was a major died though she is quite well off.

May 15th. That must have been true about the inspection; in the interval to-day Professor Igel-Nikel
said to the Herr Religionsprofessor: Well, he will go on coming all through the week and then
we shall be all right for this year. We, of course that means the staff. But really the staff
can't help it if the pupils are no good. Though Oswald says it's all the fault of the staff.
I shall be glad too when the inspection is over. The staff is always quite different when the
inspector is there, some are better, some are stricter, and Mme. A. says: I always feel quite
ill with anxiety.

May 29th. At Whitsuntide Frau Doctor Haslinger came from Hainfeld with Ada and the two boys
for the confirmation. On Whitsunday the doctor came too and in the evening they all went home
again. Ada is very pretty, but she looks countrified. I'm not going to be confirmed anyhow.
We had to wait 3 hours, though the Friday before Whitsunday was a very fine day. Dora did not
come; only Mother and I and Ada and her mother. The women who were selling white favours all
thought that I was one of the candidates because I wore a white dress too. Ada was rather put
out about it. On Saturday we were in town in the morning and afternoon because Ada liked that
better than the Kahlenberg; on Sunday morning we went to Schonbrunn and in the afternoon they
went home. The watch they gave to Ada was a lovely one and Dora and I gave her a gold chain
for a locket. She enjoyed herself immensely, except that on Sunday she had a frightful headache.
Because she is not used to town noises.

May 31st. Ada knows a good deal already, but not everything. I told her a few things. In H.
last winter a girl drowned herself because she was going to have a baby. It made a great sensation
and her mother told her a little, but not everything. Ada once saw a bitch having her pups,
but she didn't tell her mother about it; she thought that her mother might be very angry. Still,
she could not help it, the dog belonged to their next door neighbour and she happened to see
it in the out-house. Ada is expecting it to begin every day for she is nearly 14. In H. every
grown-up girl has an admirer. Ada says she will have one as soon as she is 14; she knows who
it will be.

June 3rd. Ada wrote to-day to thank Mother about the confirmation and she wrote to me as well.
It is strange that she did not make friends with Dora but with me. I think that Dora won't
talk about those things, at least only with her friends in the high school, especially with
Frieda Ertl. That is why Ada made friends with me, though I am 2 years younger. She is really
an awfully nice girl.

June 19th. One thing after another goes missing in our class, first it was Fleischer's galoshes,
then my new gloves, three times money was missing, and today Fraulein Steiner's new vanity
bag. There was a great enquiry. But nothing was found out. We all think it is Schmolka. But
no one will tell. To-day we could none of us attend to our lessons especially when Sch. left
the room at half past 11.

June 20th. In our closet the school servant found some beads on the floor but since she did
not know anything she threw them into the dustbin. Was it really Sch.? It would be a dirty
trick. Frl. St. is frightfully upset because her betrothed gave her the vanity bag for a birthday
present and his photo was in it. But I'm really sorry for Sch. Nobody will speak to her although
nothing is proved yet. She is frightfully pale and her eyes are always full of tears. Hella
thinks too that perhaps she didn't do it, for she is one of Frl. St.'s favourites and she is
very fond of her herself. She always carries the copybooks home for her.

June 22nd. Our closet was stopped up and when the porter came to see what was the matter he
found the vanity bag. But what use is it to Frl. now; she can't possibly use it any more. We
giggled all through lessons whenever we caught one another's eye and the staff was in a frightful
rage. Only Frau Doktor M. said: "Now please get through with your laughing over this extremely
unsavoury affair, and then have done with it."

June 23rd. There was a frightful row to-day. Verbenowitsch was collecting the German copybooks
and when Sch. wanted to hand up her copybook she said: Please give up your copybook yourself;
I won't have anything to do with (then there was a long pause) you. We were all apalled and
Sch. went as white as a sheet. At 10 o'clock she begged permission to leave the room because
she felt bad. I'm sure her mother will come to speak about it to-morrow.

June 24th. Sch.'s mother did not come after all. Verbenowitsch said: Of course not! Sch. did
not come either. Hella says she couldn't stand anything like that, she would rather drown herself.
I don't know, one wants other reasons for drowning oneself. Still, I should tell Father so
that he could speak about it at school. Franke said: Yes, that's all very well, because you
didn't do it; but if one had done it one would not dare to say anything at home. Besides, Sch.'s
father is an invalid, he's quite paralysed, has been bedridden for two years and can't speak.

June 27th. To-day Hella and I walked home with Frau Doktor M. Really she always goes home alone
but Hella suddenly left me and went up to Frau Doktor in the street and said: Please excuse
me Frau Doktor for bothering you in the street, we must speak to you. She got quite red. Then
Frau Doktor said: "What's the matter?" And Hella said: "Isn't it possible to find out who took
the vanity bag? If it wasn't Sch. the way the other girls treat her will make her quite ill,
and if it was we can't stand having her among us any longer." Hella was really splendid and
Frau Doktor M. made us tell her everything that had happened, including about Verbenowitsch
and the copybooks; and we saw quite clearly she had tears in her eyes and she said: "The poor
child! Children I promise I will do what I can for her." We both kissed her hand and my heart
beat furiously. And Hella said: "You are an angel." I could never have managed to say a thing
like that.

June 28th. To-day Sch. was there again, but Frau Doktor M. did not say anything. Hella and
I kept on looking at her and Hella cleared her throat three times and Frau Doktor said: Bruckner,
do stop clearing your throat; it will only make your sore throat worse: But it seemed to me
her eyes twinkled as she said it. So she hasn't forgotten. I wanted to speak to Sch., but Hella
said: Wait a bit, we must give the Frau Doktor a chance. She's taken the matter in hand. To-morrow
before 9 we'll walk up and down in front of her house till she comes out.

June 30th. Unluckily yesterday was a holiday and to-day Frau Doktor's first lesson began at
11. But she has already had a talk with Sch. only we don't know when and where; certainly it
was not in the interval and she did not send for Sch. during lessons.

July 1st. To-day we walked to school with her She is such a dear. Children, she said, this
is such a painful matter, and it is difficult to find a way out. Sch. insists that she did
not do it, and whether she did it or not these days are burning themselves into her soul and
Hella asked: "Please, Frau Doktor advise us what to do, speak to her or not?" Then she said:
Children I think that after this affair she won't come back to us next year; you will be doing
a good work if you make these last days bearable to her. You were never intimate with her,
but to give her a friendly word or two will do you no harm and may help her. You 2 have a high
standing in the class; your example will do good. We walked with her till we reached the school,
and because we were there we could not kiss her hand but Hella said out loud: How sweet you
are! She must have heard it. But Sch. was not at school. Father says he's glad that the term
is nearly over, for I have been quite crazy about this affair. Still, he thinks that Hella
and I should talk to Sch. So does Mother. But Dora said: Yes that's all right but you must
not go too far.

July 5th. Sch. was not at school to-day. To-morrow we are to get our reports.

July 6th. We cried like anything I and Hella and Verbenowitsch because we shan't see Frau Doktor
M. any more for nearly 3 months. I only had 2 in History and Natural History, but 1 in everything
else. Franke says: Anyone who is not in Professor Igel-Nigl's good books can find out that
he's cranky and stupid and he could never get a one. Father is quite pleased. Of course Dora
has got only ones and Hella has three twos. Lizzi, I think, has 3 or 4. Father has given each
of us a 2 crown piece, we can blow it, he says and Mother has given us a lace collar.

July 9th. We are going to Hainfeld this summer, its jolly, I'm awfully pleased; but not until
the 20th because Father can't get away till then and Mother won't leave Father so long alone.
It is only a few days anyhow. It's a pity Hella's gone already, she left early this morning
for Parsch near Salzburg, what a horrid name and Hella too doesn't like saying it; I can't
think how anyone can give a place such a nasty name. They have rented a house.

July 12th. It's shockingly dull. Nearly every day I have a quarrel with Dora because she's
so conceited Oswald came home yesterday. He's fearfully smart nearly as tall as Father only
about a quarter head shorter, but then Father's tremendously tall. And his voice is quite deep,
it was not before. And he has parted his hair on one side, it suits him very well. He says
his moustache is growing already but it isn't; one could see it if it were; five hairs don't
make a moustache.

July 19th. Thank goodness we're going at last the day after to-morrow. Father wanted Mother
to go away with us earlier, but she would not. It would have been nicer if she had.

July 24th. Our house is only 3 doors away from the Hs. Ada and I spend the whole day together.
There happens to be a schoolfellow of Dora's here, one she gets on with quite well, Rosa Tilofsky
Oswald says that Hainfeld bores him to death and that he shall get a friend to invite him somewhere.
Nothing will induce him to spend the whole holidays here. His name for Ada is: "Country Simplicity."
If he only knew how much she knows. Rosa T. he calls a "Pimple Complex" because she has two
or three pimples. Oswald has some fault to find with every girl he comes across. He says of
Dora: She is a green frog, for she always looks so pale and has cold hands, and he says of
me: You can't say anything about her yet: "She is still nothing but an unripe embryo." Thank
goodness I know from the natural history lessons what an embryo is, a little frog; "I got in
a frightful wax and Father said: Don't you worry, he's still a long way from being a man or
he would be more polite to his sisters and their lady friends." This annoyed him frightfully,
and since then he never says a word when Ada and Rosa are with us. My birthday is coming soon,
thank goodness I shall be 12 then, only 2 years more and I shall be 14; I am so glad. Hella
wrote to me to-day for the second time. In August she is going to Hungary to stay with her
uncle, he has a great estate and she will learn to ride there.

SECOND YEAR, AGE TWELVE TO THIRTEEN

SECOND YEAR

August 1st. It was awfully jolly on my birthday. We drove to Glashutte where it is lovely;
there we cooked our own dinner in the inn for the landlady was ill and so was the cook. On
one's birthday everyone is always so nice to one. What I like most of all is the Ebeseder paint-box,
and the book too. But I never have any time to read. Hella sent me a lovely picture: Maternal
Happiness, a dachshund with two puppies, simply sweet. When I go home I shall hang it up near
the door over the bookcase. Ada gave me a silk purse which she had worked for me herself. Aunt
Dora gave me a diary, but I can't use it because I prefer to write upon loose sheets. Grandfather
and Grandmother at B. sent me a great piece of marzipan, splendid. Ada thinks it lovely; she
didn't know marzipan before.

August 9th. When it's not holidays Ada goes to school in St. Polten staying there with her
aunt and uncle, because the school in H. is not so good as the school in St. P. Perhaps next
term she is coming to Vienna, for she has finished with the middle school and has to go on
learning. But she has no near relations in Vienna where she could stay. She might come to live
with us, Dora could have a room to herself as she always wants, and Ada and I could share a
room. I would much rather share a room with her than with Dora who is always making such a fuss.

August 10th. I do really think! A boy can always get what he wants. Oswald is really going
for a fortnight to Znaim to stay with his chum; only Oswald of course. I should like to see
what would happen if Dora or I wanted to go anywhere. A boy has a fine time. It's the injustice
of the thing which makes me furious. For we know for certain that he's had a bad report, even
though he does not tell us anything about it. But of course that doesn't matter. They throw
every 2 in our teeth and when he gets several Satisfactories he can go wherever he likes. His
chum too; he only got to know Max Rozny this year and he's a chum already. Hella and I have
been chums since we were in the second in the elementary school and Dora and Frieda Ertl since
they went to the High School. We both gave him a piece of our mind about friendship. He laughed
scornfully and said: That's all right, the friendships of men become closer as the years pass,
but the friendships of you girls go up in smoke as soon as the first admirer turns up. What
cheek. Whatever happens Hella and I shall stick to one another till we're married, for we want
to be married on the same day. Naturally she will probably get engaged before me but she must
wait for me before she's married. That's simply her duty as a friend.

August 12th. Oswald went away yesterday and we had another scene just before he left because
he wanted one of us to go with him to the station and help carry his luggage. As if we were
his servants. Ada wanted to volunteer to carry it, but Dora gave her a nudge and luckily she
understood directly. Sometimes, but only sometimes, when Dora gets in a wax she is rather like
Hella. She thinks it's better that Oswald has gone away because otherwise there are always
rows. That's because she always comes off second-best. For really he is cleverer than she is.
And when he wants to make her really angry he says something to her in Latin which she can't
understand. I think that's the real reason why she's learning Latin. I must say I would not
bother myself so about a thing like that. I really wouldn't bother.

August 15th. To-day I posted the parcel to Hella, a silver-wire watchchain; I made it in four
days. I hope she'll get it safely, one can never be sure in Hungary.

August 17th. We are so frightfully busy with Japanese lanterns and fir garlands. The people
who have received birthday honours are illuminating and decorating their houses. While we were
at work Ada told me a few things. She knows more than Hella and me, because her father is a
doctor. He tells her mother a good deal and Ada overhears a lot of things though they generally
stop talking when she comes in. Ada would like awfully to be an actress. I never thought of
such a thing though I've been to the theatre often.

August 22nd. Hella is awfully pleased with the chain; she is wearing it. She is really learning
to ride at her cousin's. It's a pity he's called Lajos. But Ludwig is not any better. He seems
to be awfully nice and smart, but it's a pity he's 22 already.

August 25th. Ada is frightfully keen on the theatre. She has often been to the theatre in St.
Polten and she is in love with an actor with whom all the ladies in St. Polten are in love.
That is why she wants to be an actress and so that she can live free and unfettered. That is
why she would like so much to come to Vienna. I wish she could come and live with us. She says
she is pining away in H. for it's a dull hole. She says she can't stand these cramping conditions.
In St. Polten she spent all her pocket money upon flowers for him. She always said that she
had to buy such a lot of copybooks and things for school. That's where she's lucky not to be
at home, for I could not easily take in Mother like that. It would not work. One always has
too little pocket money anyhow, and when one lives at home one's parents know just what copybooks
one has. I should like to go away from home for a few months. Ada says it is very good for
one, for then one learns to know the world; at home, she says, one only grows musty and fusty.
When she talks like that she really looks like an actress and she certainly has talent; her
German master at school says so too. She can recite long poems and the girls are always asking
the master to let her recite.

August 30th. To-day Ada recited Geibel's poem, The Death of Tiberius, it was splendid; she
is a born actress and it's a horrid shame she can't go on the stage; she is to teach French
or sewing. But she says she's going on the stage; I expect she will get her way somehow.

August 31st. Oswald's having a fine long fortnight; he's still there and can stay till September
4th!! If it had been Dora or me. There would have been a frightful hulabaloo. But Oswald may
do anything. Ada says: We girls must take for ourselves what the world won't give us of its
own free will.

September 5th. In the forest the other day I promised Ada to ask Mother to let her come and
stay with us so that she could be trained for the stage. I asked Mother to-day, but she said
it was quite out of the question. Ada's parents simply could not afford it. If she has talent,
the thing comes of itself and she need only go to a school of Dramatic Art so that she could
more easily get a good Theatre says Ada. So I don't see why it should be so frightfully expensive.
I'm awfully sorry for Ada.

September 10th. Oh we have all been so excited. I've got to pack up my diary because we're
going home to-morrow. I must write as quickly as I can. There have been some gypsies here for
three days, and yesterday one of the women came into the garden through the back gate and looked
at our hands and told our fortunes, mine and Ada's and Dora's. Of course we don't believe it,
but she told Ada that she would have a great but short career after many difficult struggles.
That fits in perfectly. But she made a frightful mess of it with me: Great happiness awaits
me when I am as old again as I am now; a great passion and great wealth. Of course that must
mean that I am to marry at 24. At 24! How absurd! Dora says that I look much younger than 12
so that she meant 20 or even 18. But that's just as silly, for Dr. H., who is a doctor and
knows so many girls, says I look older than my age. So that it's impossible that the old gypsy
woman could have thought I was only 10 or even 9. Dora's fortune was that in a few years she
was to have much trouble and then happiness. And she told Ada that her line of life was broken!!

September 14th. Oswald left early this morning, Father kissed him on both cheeks and said:
For God's sake be a good chap this last year at school. He has to matriculate this year, it's
frightfully difficult. But he says that anyone who has cheek enough can get through all right.
He says that cheek is often more help than a lot of swoting and grinding. I know he's right;
but unfortunately at the moment it never occurs to me what I ought to do. I often think afterwards,
you ought to have said this or that. Hella is really wonderful; and Franke too, though she's
not particularly clever, can always make a smart answer. If only half of what Oswald says he
says to the professors is true, then I can't understand why he is not expelled from every Gym.
says Mother. Oswald says: If one only puts it in the right way no one can say anything. But
that doesn't hold always.

September 16th. Hella is coming back to-day. That's why I'm writing in the morning, because
she's coming here in the afternoon. I'm awfully glad. I have begged Mother to buy a lovely
cake, one of the kind Hella and I are both so fond of.

September 20th. Only a word or two. School began again to-day. Thank goodness Frau Doktor M.
still takes our class. Frl. Steiner took her doctor's degree at the end of the school year.
In history we have a new Frau Doktor, but we don't know her name yet. The Vischer woman has
been married in the holidays!!! It's enough to make one split with laughing that anyone should
marry her!!! Dora says she wouldn't like to be her husband; but most likely he will soon get
a divorce. Besides, spectacles in a woman are awful. I can put up with a pincenez for one does
not wear them all the time. But spectacles! Dora says too that she can't understand how a man
can marry a woman with spectacles. Hella often says it makes her feel quite sick when Vischer
glares at her through her spectacles. We have a new natural history professor. I'm awfully
glad that three of our mistresses have doctors degrees and that we have one or really 2 professors,
for we have the Religionsprofessor too. In the Third they are frightfully annoyed because only
one of their mistresses has a doctor's degree. Dora has 2 doctors and three professors.

September 25th. All the girls are madly in love with Professor Wilke the natural history professor.
Hella and I walked behind him to-day all the way home. He is a splendid looking man, so tall
that his head nearly touches the lamp when he stands up quickly, and a splendid fair beard
like fire when the sun shines on it; a Sun God! we call him S. G., but no one knows what it
means and who we are talking about.

September 29th. Schmolka has left, I suppose because of Frl. St.'s vanity bag. Two other girls
have left and three new one's have come, but neither I nor Hella like them.

October 1st. It was my turn in Natural History to-day I worked frightfully hard and He was
splendid. We are to look after the pictures and the animals all through the term. How jolly.
Hella and I always wear the same coloured hair ribbons and in the Nat. Hist. lesson we always
put tissue paper of the same colour on the desk. He wants us to keep notebooks, observations
on Nature. We have bound ours in lilac paper, exactly the same shade as his necktie. On Tuesdays
and Fridays we have to come to school at half past 8 to get things ready. Oh how happy I am.

October 9th. He is a cousin of our gymnastic master, splendid! This is how we found it out.
We, Hella and I, are always going past the Cafe Sick because he always has his afternoon coffee
there. And on Thursday when we passed by there before the gymnastic lesson there was the gymnastic
master sitting with him. Of course we bowed to them as we passed and in the gymnastic lesson
Herr Baar said to us: So you two are tormented and pestered by my cousin in natural history?
"Pestered" we said, o no, it's the most delightful lesson in the whole week. "Is that so?"
said he, "I won't forget to let him know." Of course we begged and prayed him not to give us
away, saying it would be awful. But we do hope he will.

October 20th. Frau Doktor Steiner's mother is dead. We are so sorry for her. Some of us are
going to the funeral, I mayn't go, Mother says it is not suitable, and Hella is not allowed
to go either, I wonder if He will go? I'm sure he will, for really he has to.

October 23rd. Frau Doktor St. looks frightfully pale. Franke says she will certainly get married
soon now that both her parents are dead. Her fiance often fetches her from the Lyz, I mean
he waits for her in L. Street. Hella thinks an awful lot of him of course, because he's an
officer. I don't think much of him myself, he's too short and too fat. He's only a very little
taller than Frl. St. I think a husband should be nearly a head taller than his wife, or at
least half a head taller, like our Father and Mother.

October 29th. We have such a frightful lot of work to do that we're not taking season tickets
this winter, but are going to pay each time when we go skating. I wish we knew whether He skates,
and where. Hella thinks that with great caution we might find out from his cousin during the
gymnastic lesson. They are often together in the Cafe. I should like to know what they talk
about, they are always laughing such a lot, especially when we go by.

October 31st. Ada has written to me. She is awfully unhappy. She is back in St. P., in a continuation
school. But the actor is not there any more. She writes that she yearns to throw off her chains
which lie heavy on her soul. Poor darling. No one can help her. That is, her Mother could help
her but she won't. It must be awful. Hella thinks that her parents will not allow her to go
on the stage until she has tried to do herself a mischief; then things may be better. It's
quite true, what can her mother be thinking of when she knows how fearfully unhappy Ada is.
After all, why on earth shouldn't she go on the stage when she has so much talent? All her
mistresses and masters at the middle school praised her reciting tremendously and one of them
said in so many words that she had great dramatic talent. Masters don't flatter one; except
. . .; first of all He is not just an ordinary master but a professor, and secondly He is quite,
quite different from all others When he strokes his beard I become quite hot and cold with
extasy. And the way he lifts up his coat tails as he sits down. It's lovely, I do want to kiss
him. Hella and I take turns to put our penholder on his desk so that he can hallow it with
his hand as he writes. Afterwards in the arithmetic lesson when I write with it, I keep looking
at Hella and she looks back at me and we both know what the other is thinking of.

November 15th. It's a holiday to-day so at last I can write once more. We have such a frightful
lot to do that I simply can't manage to write. Besides Mother is often ill. She has been laid
up again for the last 4 days. It's awfully dull and dreary. Of course I had time to write those
days, but then I didn't want to write. As soon as Mother is well again she's going to the Lyz
to ask how we are getting on I'm awfully glad because of S.G.

November 28th. Mother came to school to-day and saw him too. I took her to him and he was heavenly.
He said: I am very pleased with your daughter; she's very keen and clever. Then he turned over
the pages of his notebook as if to look at his notes. But really he knows by heart how we all
work. That is not all of course. That would be impossible with so many girls; and he teaches
in the science school as well where there are even more boys than we are.

December 5th. Skating to-day I saw the Gold Fairy. She is awfully pretty, but I really don't
think her so lovely as I did last year. Hella says she never could think what had happened
to my eyes. "You were madly in love with her and you never noticed that she has a typical Bohemian
nose," said Hella. Of course that's not true, but now my taste is quite different. Still, I
said how d'you do to her and she was very nice. When she speaks she is really charming, and
I do love her gold stoppings. Frau Doktor M. has two too and when she laughs its heavenly.

December 8th. I do wish Dora would keep her silly jokes to herself. When the Trobisch's were
all here to-day they were talking about the school and she said: "Gretl has a fresh enthusiasm
each year; last year it was Frau Doktor Malburg and this year it's Professor Wilke. Frau Doktor
Malburg has fallen from grace now." If I had wanted to I could have begun about the two students
on the ice. But I'm not like that so I merely looked at her with contempt and gave her a kick
under the table. And she had the cheek to say: "What's the matter? Oh, of course these tender
secrets of the heart must not be disclosed. Never mind Gretl, it does not matter at your age,
for things don't cut deep." But she was rightly paid out: Frau von Tr. and Father roared with
laughter and Frau v. Tr. said: "Why, grandmother, have you been looking at your white hair
in the glass?" Oh, how I did laugh, and she was so frightfully put out that she blushed like
fire, and in the evening she said to me that I was an ill-mannered pig. That's why I did not
tell her that she'd left her composition book on the table and to-morrow she has to give it
in. It's all the same to me, for I'm an ill-mannered pig.

December 9th. It's awful. At 2 o'clock this afternoon Hella was taken to the Low sanatorium
and was operated on at once. Appendicitis. Her mother has just telephoned that the operation
has been successful. But the doctors said that 2 hours later it would have been too late. My
knees are trembling and my hand shakes as I write. She has not slept off the anisthetic yet.

December 10th. Hella is frightfully weak; no one can see her except her father and mother,
not even Lizzi. On St. Nicholas Day we had such a jolly time and ate such a lot of sweets that
we almost made ourselves sick. But its impossible that she got appendicitis from that. On Monday
evening, when we were going home after the gym lesson, she said she did not feel at all well.
The night before last she had a rigor and the first thing in the morning the doctor said that
she must go to hospital at once for an operation.

December 11th. All the girls at school are frightfully excited about Hella, and Frau Dr. St.
was awfully nice and put off mathematics till next Tuesday. On Sunday I am going to see Hella.
She does want to see me so and so do I want to see her.

December 12th. She is still very weak and doesn't care about anything; I got her mother to
take some roses and violets from me, she did like them so much.

December 14th. This afternoon I was with Hella from two until a quarter to 4. She is so pale
and when I came in we both cried such a lot. I brought her some more flowers and I told her
directly that when he sees me Prof. W. always asks after her. So do the other members of the
staff especially Frau Doktor M. The girls want to visit her but her mother won't let them.
When anyone is lying in bed they look quite different, like strangers. I said so to Hella,
and she said: We can never be strangers to one another, not even in death. Then I burst out
crying again and both our mothers said I must go away because it was too exciting for Hella.

December 15th. I was with Hella again to-day. She passed me a little note asking me to get
from her locker the parcel with the blotting-book for her father and the key basket for her
mother and bring it to her because the things are not ready yet for Christmas.

December 16th. Hella's better to-day. I've got to paint the blotting-book for her father. Thank
goodness I can. She'll be able to finish the key basket herself, that's nothing.

December 18th. The Bruckners are all frightfully unhappy for it won't be a real Christmas if
Hella has to stay in hospital over Christmas. But perhaps she will for since yesterday she
has not been so well, the doctors can't make out why she suddenly had fever once more. For
she didn't let on that I had brought her some burnt almonds because she's so awfully fond of
them. But now I'm so terribly frightened that she'll have to have another operation.

December 19th. Directly after school I went to see Hella again for I had been so anxious I
could not sleep all night. Thank goodness she's better. One of the doctors said that if she'd
been in a private house he would have felt sure it was an error in diet, but since she was
in hospital that could be excluded. So it was from the burnt almonds and the two sticks of
marzipan. Hella thinks it was the marzipan, for they were large ones at 20 hellers each because
nuts lie heavy on the stomach. She had a pain already while I was still there, but she wouldn't
say anything about it because it was her fault that I'd brought her the sweets. She can beg
as much as she likes now, I shan't bring her anything but flowers, and they can't make her
ill. Of course it would be different if it were true about the "Vengeance of Flowers." But
that's all nonsense, and besides I don't bring any strong-scented flowers.

December 20th. I am so glad, to-morrow or Tuesday Hella can come home, in time for the Christmas
tree. Now I know what to give her, a long chair, Father will let me, for I have not enough
money myself but Father will give me as much as I want. Oh there's no one like Father! To-morrow
he's going to take me to the Wahringerstrasse to buy one.

December 21st. I was only a very short time with Hella to-day because Father came to fetch
me soon. At first she was a little hurt, but then she saw that we had important business so
she said: All right as long as it is not anything made of marzipan. That nearly gave us both
away. For when we were in the street Father asked me: Why did Hella say that about marzipan?
So I said quickly: Since she's been ill she has a perfect loathing for sweets. Thank goodness
Father didn't notice anything. But I do hate having to tell fibs to Father. First of all I
always feel that he'll see through it, and secondly anyhow I don't like telling fibs to him.
The couch is lovely, a Turkish pattern with long tassels on the round bolster. Father wanted
to pay for it altogether, but I said: No, then it would not be my present, and so I paid five
crowns and Father 37. To-morrow early it will be sent to the Bruckners.

December 22nd. Hella is going home to-morrow. She has already been up a little, but she is
still so weak that she has to lean on someone when she walks. She is awfully glad she is going
home, for she says in a hospital one always feels as if one was going to die. She's quite right.
The first time I went to see her I nearly burst out crying on the stairs. And afterwards we
both really did cry frightfully. Her mother knows about the couch, but it has not been sent
yet. I do hope they won't forget about it at the shop.

December 23rd. Hella went home to-day. Her father carried her upstairs while I held her hand.
The two tenants in the mezzanin came out to congratulate her and the old privy councillor on
the second story and his wife sent down a great pot of lilac. She was so tired that I came
away at 5 o'clock so that she could rest. To-morrow I'm going to their Christmas tree first
and then to ours. Because of Hella the Br's are going to have the present giving at 5 o'clock,
we shall have ours as usual at 7.

December 26th. Yesterday and the day before I simply could not write a word. It was lovely
here and at Hella's. I shan't write down all the things I got, because I've no time, and besides
I know anyhow. Hella was awfully pleased with the couch, her father carried her into the room
and laid her on the sofa. Her mother cried. It was touching. It's certainly awfully nice to
have got through a bad illness, when everyone takes care of one, and when no one denies you
the first place. I don't grudge it to Hella. She's such a darling. Yesterday I was there all
day, and after dinner, when she had to go to sleep, she said: Open the drawer of my writing-table,
the lowest one on the right, and you'll find my diary there if you want to read it. I shall
never forget it! It's true that we agreed we would let one another read our diaries, but we've
never done it yet; after all we're a little shy of one another, and besides after a long time
one can't remember exactly what one has written. What she writes is always quite short, never
more than half a page, but what she writes is always important. Of course she couldn't sleep
but instead I had to read her a lot of things out of her diary, especially the holidays when
she was in Hungary. She was made much of there. By two cadets and her two cousins. We laughed
so madly over some things that it hurt Hella's wound and I had to stop reading.

December 29th. We were put in such a frightful rage yesterday. This is how it happened. It
is a long time since we both gave up playing with dolls and things of that sort but when I
was rummaging in Hella's box I came across the dolls' things; they were quite at the bottom
where Hella never looked at them. I took out the little Paris model and she said: Give it here
and bring all the things that belong to it. I arranged them all on her bed and we were trying
all sorts of things. Then Mother and Dora came. When they came in Dora gave such a spiteful
look and said: Ah, at their favourite occupation: look, Lizzi, their cheeks are quite red with
excitement over their play. Wasn't it impertinent. We playing with dolls! Even if we had been,
what business was it of hers to make fun of us? Hella was in a frightful rage and to-day she
said: "One is never safe from spies; please put all those things away in the box so that I
shan't see them any more." It really is too stupid that one should always be reproached about
dolls as if it was something disgraceful. After all, one doesn't really understand until later
how all the things are made; when one is 7 or 8 or still more when one is quite a little girl
and one first gets dolls, one does not understand whether they are pretty and nicely dressed
or not. Still, to-day we've done with dolls for ever. A good day to turn over a new leaf, for
the day after to-morrow is New Year's Day.

But what annoys me most of all was this piece of cheek of Dora's; she says that Lizzi said:
"We used to delight in those things at one time," but I was in such a rage that I did not hear
it. But to eat all the best things off the Christmas tree on the sly!!! I saw it myself, that
is nothing. That's quite fit and proper for a girl of 15. After supper yesterday I asked: But
what's become of the second marzipan sandwich, I'm sure there were two on the tree. And I looked
at her steadily till she got quite red. And after a time I said: the big basket of vegetables
is gone too. Then she said. Yes, I took it, I don't need to ask your permission. As for the
sandwich, Oswald took that. I was in such a temper, and then Father said: Come, come, you little
witch, cool your wrath with the second sandwich and wash it down with a sip of liqueur. For
Grandfather sent Father a bottle of liqueur.

December 30th. This is a fine ending to the year. I've no interest in the school any longer.
We're silly little fools, love-sick and forward minxes. That's all the thanks we get for having
gone every Tuesday and Friday to the school at half past 8 to arrange everything and dust everything
and then he can say a thing like that. I shall never write he with a big h again; he is not
worthy of it. And I had to swallow it all, choke it down, for I simply must not excite Hella.
It made me frightfully angry when Mother told me, but still I'm glad for I know what line to
take now. Mother was paying a call yesterday and the sister of our gymnastic master, who is
at the ---- High School, happened to be there, and she told Mother that her cousin Dr. W. is
so much annoyed because the girls in the high school are so forward. Such silly little fools,
and the little minxes begin it already in the First Class. For that reason he prefers to teach
boys, they are fond of him too but they don't make themselves such an infernal nuisance. Well,
now that I know I shant make myself a nuisance to him any more. On Friday, when the next lesson
is, I shall go there 2 minutes before nine and take the things into the class-room without
saying a word. And I shall tell Kalinsky too that we're such an infernal nuisance to him. Just
fancy, as if we were in the First Class!

January 1st, 19--. This business with Prof. W. makes me perfectly furious. Hella kept on asking
yesterday what was the matter, said I seemed different somehow. But thank goodness I was able
to keep it in. I must keep it in for the sake of her health, even if it makes me ill. Anyway
what use is life now. Since people are so falsehearted. He always looked so awfully nice and
charming; when I think of the way in which he asked how Hella was and all the time he was so
false!!! If Hella only knew. Aha, to-morrow!

January 2nd. I treated him abominably. Knocked at the door--Good-morning, Herr Prof. please
what do we want for the lesson to-day? He very civilly: Nothing particular to-day. Well, what
sort of a Christmas did you have--I: Thank you, much as usual.--He turned round and stared
at me: It does not seem to have been; to judge from your manner. --I: There are quite other
reasons for that. He: O-o-h? He may well say O-o-h! For he has not the least idea that I know
the way in which he speaks of us.

January 6th. To-day Hella was able to go out for her first drive. She's much better now and
will come back to school by the middle of the month. I must tell her before that or she'll
get a shock. Yesterday she asked: Does not S. C. ask about me any more?--Oh yes, I fibbed,
but not so often as before. And she said: That's the way it goes, out of sight out of mind.
What will happen when she learns the truth. Anyhow I shan't tell her until she's quite strong.

January 10th. I've had to tell Hella already. She was talking so enthusiastically about S.
G. At first I said nothing. And then she said: What are you making such a face for? Are not
you allowed to arrange the things any more?--I: Allowed? Of course I'm allowed, but I don't
want to any more. I did not tell Hella how bad I feel about it; for I really was madly in love
with him.

January 12th. Hella must have been madly in love with him too or rather must be in love with
him still. On Sunday evening she was so much upset that her mother believed she was going to
have a relapse. She had pains and diarrea at the same time. Thank goodness she's got over it
like me. She said to-day: Don't let's bother ourselves about it any more. We wasted our feelings
(not love!!) on an unworthy object. At such moments she is magnificent, especially now when
she is still so pale. Besides in the holidays and now since she has been ill she has grown
tremendously. Before I was a little taller and now she is a quarter head taller than me. Dora
is frightfully annoyed because I am nearly as tall as she is. Thank goodness it makes me look
older than 12 1/2.

Hella is not to come to school on January 15th, for her mother is going to take her to Tyrol
for 2 or 3 weeks.

January 18th. It's horridly dull with Hella away. Only now do I realise, since her illness.
I am always feeling as if she had fallen ill again. Her mother has taken her to Meran, they
are coming back in the beginning of February.

January 24th. Since Hella has been ill, that is really since, she went away, I spend most of
my time with Fritzi Hubner. She's awfully nice, though I did not know it last year. Till Hella
comes back she and I sit together. For it's horrid to sit alone on a bench Fritzi knows a good
deal already. She would not talk about it at first because it so often leads to trouble. Her
brother has told her everything. He's rather a swell and is called Paul.

January 29th. Yesterday was the ice carnival and Dora and I were allowed to go. I skated with
Fritzi and Paul most of the time and won 2 prizes, one of them with Paul. And one of them skating
in a race with 5 other girls. Paul is awfully clever, he says he's going into the army, the
flying corps. That's even more select than being on the general staff. Her father is a major
and he, I mean Paul, ought to have gone to the military academy, but his grandfather would
not allow it. He is to choose for himself. But of course he will become an officer. Most boys
want to be what their father is. But Oswald is perhaps going into the Navy. I wish I knew what
Father meant once when he said to Mother: Good God, I'm not doing it on my own account. I'm
only doing it because of Oswald. The two girls won't get much out of it.

February 3rd. I've just been reading what I wrote about Father. I am wondering what it can
be. I think that Father either wants to win the great prize in the lottery or is perhaps going
to buy a house. But Dora and I would get something out of that, for it would not belong to
Oswald only.

February 4th. Yesterday I asked Mother about it. But she said she didn't know; if it was anything
which concerned us, Father would tell us. But it must be something, or Mother would not have
told Father in the evening that I had asked. I can't endure these secrets. Why shouldn't we
know that Father's going to buy a house. Fritzi's grandfather has a house in Brunn and another
in Iglau. But Fritzi is very simply dressed and her mother too.

February 9th. Thank goodness Hella is coming back to-morrow, just before her birthday. Luckily
she can eat everything again so I am giving her a huge bag of Viktor Schmid's sweets with a
silver sugar tongs. Mother and I are going to meet Hella at the station. They are coming by
the 8.20.

February 10th. I am so glad Hella is coming to-day. I nearly could not meet her because Mother
is not very well to-day. But Father's going to take me. Fritzi wanted to come and see Hella
to-morrow afternoon, but she can't. She's an awfully nice girl and her brother is too, but
on the first day Hella is back we must be alone together. She said so too in the last letter
she wrote me. She's been away more than 3 weeks. It's a frightfully long time when you are
fond of one another.

February 15th. I simply can't write my diary because Hella and I spend all our free time together.
Yesterday we got our reports. Of course Hella has not got one. Except in Geography and History
I have nothing but Ones, even in Natural History although since New Year I have not done any
work in that subject. I detest Natural History. When Hella comes back to school we are going
to ask the sometime S. G. to relieve us from the labours of looking after the things. Hella
is still too weak to do it. Hella is 13 already and Father says she is going to be wonderfully
pretty. Going to be, Father says; but she's lovely already. She's been burned as brown as a
berry by the warm southern sun, and it really suits her, though only her. I can't stand other
people when they are sun-burned. But really everything suits Hella; when she was so pale in
hospital, she was lovely; and now she is just as lovely, only in quite a different way. Oswald
is quite right when he says: You can measure a girl's beauty by the degree in which she bears
being sunburned without losing her good looks. He really used to say that in the holidays simply
to annoy Dora and me, but he's quite right all the same.

February 20th. The second half-year began yesterday. They were all awfully nice to Hella, and
Frau Doktor M. stroked her cheeks and put her arm round her so affectionately. Now for the
chief thing. Today was the Natural History lesson. We knocked at the door and when we went
in Prof. W. said: Ah I'm glad to see you Bruckner; take care that you don't give us all another
fright. How are you? Hella said: "Quite well, thank you, Herr Prof." And as I looked at her
she put on a frightfully serious face and he said: It seems to me that you've caught your friend's
ill humour.--Hella: "Herr Prof., you are really too kind, but we don't want to trouble you.
What things have we to take to the class-room? And then we beg leave to resign our posts, for
I don't feel strong enough for the work." She said this in quite a soldierly way, the way she
is used to hear her father speak. It sounded most distinguished. He looked at us and said:
"All right, two of the other pupils will take it over." We don't know whether he really noticed
nothing or simply did not wish to show that he had noticed. But as we shut the door I felt
so awfully sorry; for it was the last time, the very last time.

February 27th. In Natural History to-day I got Unsatisfactory. I was not being questioned,
but when Klaiber could not answer anything I laughed, and he said: Very well, Lainer, you correct
her mistake. But since I had been thinking of something quite different I did not know what
it was all about, and so I got an Unsatisfactory. Before of course that would not have mattered;
but now since . . . Hella and Franke did all they could to console me and said: "That does
not matter, it wasn't an examination; he'll have to examine you properly later." Anyhow Franke
thinks that however hard I learn, I shall be well off if he gives me a Satisfactory. She says
no professor can forget such a defeat. For we told her about the silly little fools. She said,
indeed, that we had made it too obvious. That's not really true. But now she takes our side,
for she sees that we were in the right. Verbenowitsch and Bennari bring in the things now.
They are much better suited for it. Hella's father did not like her doing it anyhow; he says:
The porter or the maidservant are there for that--we never see them all the year round, that's
a fine thing.

March 8th. Easter does not come this year until April 16th. I am going with the Bruckners to
Cilli, outside the town there they have a vineyard with a country house. Hella needs a change.
I am awfully glad. All the flowers begin to come out there at the end of March or beginning
of April.

March 12th. Hella is not straightforward. We met a gentleman to-day, very fashionably dressed
with gold-rimmed eyeglasses and a fair moustache. Hella blushed furiously, and the gentleman
took off his hat and said: Ah, Fraulein Helenchen, you are looking very well. How are you?
He never looked at me, and when he had gone she said: "That was Dr. Fekete, who assisted at
my operation."--"And you tell me that now for the first time?" Then she put on an innocent
air and said: "Of course, we've never met him before," but I said: "I don't mean that. If you
knew how red you got you would not tell me a lie." Then she said: "What am I telling you a
lie about? Do you think I'm in love with him? Not in the very least."--But when one is not
in love one does not blush like that. Anyhow I shan't tell everything now either; I can hold
my tongue too.

March 14th. Yesterday we did not talk to one another so much as usual; I especially was very
silent. When the bell rang at 5 and I had just been doing the translation Hella came and begged
my pardon and brought me some lovely violets, so of course I forgave her. This is really the
first time we've ever quarrelled. First she wanted to bring me some sweets, but then she decided
upon violets, and I think that was much more graceful. One gives sweets to a little child when
it has hurt itself or been in a temper. But flowers are not for a child.

March 19th. Frieda Belay is dead. We are all terribly upset. None of us were very intimate
with her, but now that she is dead we all remember that she was a schoolfellow. She died of
heart failure following rheumatic fever. We all attended her funeral, except Hella who was
not allowed to come. Her mother cried like anything and her grandmother still more; her father
cried too. We sent a wreath of white roses with a lovely inscription: Death has snatched you
away in the flower of your youth--Your Schoolfellows.

I have no pleasure in anything to-day. I did not see Frieda Belay after she was dead, but Franke
was there yesterday and saw her in her coffin. She says she will never forget it, it gave her
such a pang. In the church Lampl had a fit of hysterics, for her mother was buried only a month
ago and now she was reminded of it all and was frightfully upset. I cried a lot too when I
was with Hella. She fancied it was because I was thinking she might have died last Dec. But
that wasn't it, I don't think about that sort of thing. But when anyone dies it is so awfully sad.

March 24th. I never heard of such a thing. I can't go to Cilli with Hella. Her mother was at
her cousin's, and when she heard that she was going to Cilli at Easter she asked her to take
Melanie with her. That is, she didn't ask straight out, but kept on hinting until Hella's mother
said: Let Melanie come with us, it will help to set her up after her illness. In the winter
she had congestion of the lung. Hella and I can't bear her because she's always spying on us
and is so utterly false. So of course I can't go. Hella says too she's frightfully sorry, but
when she is about we could never say a word about anything, it would drive us crazy. She quite
agrees that I had better not come. But oh I'm so annoyed for first of all I do so like going
away with Hella and secondly I should like to go away in the holidays anyhow for nearly all
the girls in our class are going away. Still, there's nothing to be done. Hella's mother says
she can't see why we can't all 3 go though it simply would not work. But we can't explain it
to her. Hella is so poetical and she says "A beautiful dream vanished."

In Hella's mouth such fine words sound magnificent, but when Dora uses such expressions they
annoy me frightfully because they don't come from her heart.

March 26th. The school performances finish today with Waves of the Sea and Waves of Love. I'm
awfully fond of the theatre, but I never write anything about that. For anyhow the play is
written by a poet and one can read it if one wants to, and one just sees the rest anyhow. I
can't make out what Dora finds such a lot to scribble about always the day after we've been
to the theatre. I expect she's in love with one of the actors and that's why she writes such
a lot. Besides we in the second class did not get tickets for all the performances, but only
the girls from the Fourth upwards. Still, it did not matter much to me anyhow for we often
go in the evening and on Sunday afternoons. But unfortunately I mayn't go in the evening as a rule.

March 29th. To-day something horrible happened to Dora and me. I simply can't write it down.
She was awfully nice and said: Two years ago on the Metropolitan Railway the same thing had
happened when she was travelling with Mother on February 15th, she can never forget the date,
to Hietzing to see Frau v. Martini. Besides her and Mother there was only one gentleman in
the carriage, Mother always travels second class. She and Mother were sitting together and
the gentleman was standing farther down the carriage where Mother could not see him but Dora
could. And as Dora was looking he opened his cloak and -- -- --! just what the man did to-day
at the house door. And when they got out of the train Dora's boa got stuck in the door and
she had to turn round though she did not want to, and then she saw again -- -- --! She simply
could not sleep for a whole month afterwards. I remember that time when she could not sleep
but I did not know why it was. She never told anyone except Erika and the same thing happened
to her once. Dora says that happens at least once to nearly every girl; and that such men are
"abnormal." I don't really know what that means, but I did not like to ask. Perhaps Hella will
know. Of course I did not really look, but Dora shivered and said: "And that is what one has
to endure." And then, when we were talking it over she said to me that that was why Mother
was ill and because she has had five children; Then I was very silly and said: "But how from
that? one does not get children from that?" "Of course," she said, "I thought you knew that
already. That time there was such a row with Mali about the waistband, I thought you and Hella
had heard all about everything." Then I was silly again, really frightfully stupid; for instead
of telling her what I really knew I said: "Oh, yes, I knew all about it except just that."
Then she burst out laughing and said: "After all, what you and Hella know doesn't amount to
much." And in the end she told me a little. If it's really as Dora says, then she is right
when she says it is better not to marry. One can fall in love, one must fall in love, but one
can just break off the engagement. Well, that's the best way out of the difficulty for then
no one can say that you've never had a man in love with you. We walked up and down in front
of the school for such a long time that we were very nearly late and only got in just as the
bell rang. On the way home I told Hella the awful thing we'd seen the man do. She does not
know either what "abnormal" really means as far as this is concerned. But now we shall use
it as an expression for something horrible. Of course no one will understand us. And then Hella
told me about a drunken man who in Nagy K. . . . was walking through the streets like that
and was arrested. She says too that one can never forget seeing anything like that. Perhaps
the man this morning was drunk too. But he didn't look as if he were drunk. And if he hadn't
done that one would really have taken him for a fine gentleman. Hella knows too that it is
from that that one gets children. She explained it all to me and now I can quite understand
that that must make one ill. Yesterday it was after 11 at night and so I'm finishing to-day.
Hella says: That is the original sin, and that is the sin which Adam and Eve committed. Before
I had always believed the original sin was something quite different. But that--that. Since
yesterday I've been so upset I always seem to be seeing that; really I did not look at all,
but I must have seen it all the same.

March 30th. I don't know why, but in the history lesson to-day it all came into my head once
more what Dora had said of Father. But I really can't believe it. Because of Father I'm really
sorry that I know it. Perhaps it does not all happen the way Dora and Hella say. Generally
I can trust Hella, but of course she may be mistaken.

April 1st. To-day Dora told me a lot more. She is quite different now from what she used to
be. One does not say P[eriod], but M[enstruation]. Only common people say P--. Or one can say
one's like that. Dora has had M-- since August before last, and it is horribly disagreeable,
because men always know. That is why at the High School we have only three men professors and
all the other teachers are women. Now Dora often does not have M-- and then sometimes it's
awfully bad, and that's why she's anemic. That men always know, that's frightfully interesting.

April 4th. We talk a lot about such things now. Dora certainly knows more than I do, that is
not more but better. But she isn't quite straightforward all the same. When I asked her how
she got to know about it all, whether Erika told her or Frieda, she said: "Oh, I don't know;
one finds it all out somehow; one need only use one's eyes and one's ears, and then one can
reason things out a little." But seeing and hearing don't take one very far. I've always kept
my eyes open and I'm not so stupid as all that. One must be told by some one, one can't just
happen upon it by oneself.

April 6th. I don't care about paying visits now. We used always to like going to see the Richters,
but to-day I found it dull. Now I know why Dora hates going second class on the Metropolitan.
I always thought it was only to spite me because I like travelling second. She never likes
going second since that happened. It seems one is often unjust to people who never meant what
one thought. But why did she not tell me the truth? She says because I was still a child then.
That's all right, but what about this winter when I was cross because we went Third class to
Schonbrunn; I really believed she did it to annoy me, for I could not believe she was afraid
that in the second class, where one is often alone, somebody would suddenly attack her with
a knife. But now I understand quite well, for of course she could not tell Mother the truth
and Father still less. And in winter and spring there are really often no passengers to speak
of on the Metropolitan, especially on the Outer Circle.

April 7th. Mother said to-day that at the Richters yesterday we, especially I, had been frightfully
dull and stupid. Why had we kept on exchanging glances? We had been most unmannerly. If she
had only known what we were thinking of when Frau Richter said, the weather to-day is certainly
quite abnormal; we have not had such abnormal heat for years. And then when Herr Richter came
home and spoke about his brother who had spent the whole winter at Hochschneeberg and said:
Oh, my brother is a little abnormal, I think he's got a tile loose in the upper storey, I really
thought I should burst. Luckily Frau R. helped us once more to a tremendous lot of cake and
I was able to lean well forward over my plate. And Mother said that I ate like a little glutton
and just as if I never had any cake at home. So Mother was very unjust to me, for the cake
had nothing at all to do with it. Dora says too that I must learn to control myself better,
that if I only watch her I'll soon learn. That's all very well, but why should one have to
bother? If people did not use words that really mean something quite different then other people
would not have to control themselves. Still, I must learn to do it somehow.

April 8th. We were terribly alarmed to-day; quite early, at half past 8, they telephoned from
the school that Dora had suddenly been taken ill in the Latin lesson and must be fetched in
a carriage. Mother drove down directly in a taxi and I went with her because anyhow my lessons
began at 9 and we found Dora on the sofa in the office with the head sitting by her and the
head's friend, Frau Doktor Preisky, who is a medical doctor, and they had loosened her dress
and put a cold compress on her head for she had suddenly fainted in the Latin lesson. That's
the third time this year, so she must really have anemia. I wanted to drive home with her,
but Mother and Frau Dr. P. said I'd better just go to my lessons. And as I went out I heard
Frau Dr. P. say: "That's a fine healthy girl, a jolly little fellow." Really one should only
use that word of boys and men, but I suppose she has got into the way of using it through being
with men so much. If one studies medicine one has to learn all about that and to look at everything.
It must be really horrid.

Dora is kept in bed to-day and our Doctor says too that she's anemic. To-morrow or the day
after Mother is going to take her to see a specialist. Dora says it's a lovely feeling to faint.
Suddenly one can't hear what people are saying and one feels quite weak and then one does not
know anything more. I wonder if I shall ever faint? Very likely when -- -- -- We talked a lot
about everything we are interested in. In the afternoon Hella came to ask after Dora, and she
thinks she looks awfully pretty in bed, an interesting invalid and at the same time so distinguished
looking. It's quite true, we all look distinguished.

April 9th. To-day is Father and Mother's wedding day. Now I know what that really means. Dora
says it can't really be true that it is the most lovely day in one's life, as everyone says
it is, especially the poets. She thinks that one must feel frightfully embarrassed because
after all everyone knows. . . . That's quite true, but after all one need not tell anyone which
one's wedding day is. Dora says she will never tell her children which her wedding day is.
But it would be a great pity if parents always did that for then in every family there would
be one anniversary the less. And the more anniversaries there are, the jollier it is.

April 10th. To-morrow I'm going with Father to Salzburg. Dora can't come, for they think she
might faint in the train. I'm rather glad really, though I've nothing against her and I'm sorry
for her, but it's much nicer to go with Father alone. It's a long time since I was in Salzburg.
I'm so awfully glad to go. Our spring coats and skirts are so pretty, dark green with a silk
lining striped green and gold-brown, and light brown straw hats with daisies for the spring
and later we shall have cherries or roses. I'm taking my diary so that I can write everything
which interests me.

April 12th. I slept all the way in the train. Father says I ground my teeth frightfully and
was very restless: but I did not know anything about it. We had a compartment by ourselves,
except just at first when there was a gentleman there. Hella did not come with us, because
her aunt, who has just been married, is coming to visit them. Really I'm quite glad, for I
like so much being with Father quite alone. This afternoon we were in Hellbrunn and at the
Rock Theatre. It is wonderful.

April 13th. Father always calls me: Little Witch! But I don't much like it when other people
are there. To-day we went up the Gaisberg. The weather was lovely and the view magnificent.
When I see so extensive a view it always makes me feel sad. Because there are so many people
one does not know who perhaps are very nice. I should like to be always travelling. It would
be splendid.

April 14th. I nearly got lost to-day. Father was writing a letter to Mother and he let me go
to see the salt works; I don't know how it happened, but suddenly I found myself a long way
from anywhere, in a place I did not know. Then an old gentleman asked me what I was looking
for; because I had walked past the same place 3 times and I said we were staying in the "Zur
Post Hotel" and I did not know how to find my way back. So he came with me to show me and as
we were talking it came out that he had known Father at the university. So he came in with
me and Father was awfully glad to see him. He is a barrister in Salzburg but he has a grey
beard already. As he was going away he said in an undertone to Father: "I congratulate you
old chap on your daughter; she'll be something quite out of the ordinary!" He whispered it
really, but I heard all the same. We spent all the afternoon with him at the Kapuzinerberg.
There was a splendid military band; two young officers in the Yagers who were sitting at the
next table to ours kept on looking our way; one was particularly handsome. My new summer coat
and skirt is awfully becoming everyone says. Father says too: "I say, you'll soon be a young
lady! But don't grow up too quickly!" I can't make out why he said that; I should like to be
quite grown up; but it will be a long time yet.

April 14th. It's been raining all day. How horrid. One can't go anywhere. All the morning we
were walking about the town and saw several churches. Then we were at the pastrycook's, where
I ate 4 chocolate eclairs and 2 tartlets. So I had no appetite for dinner.

April 15th. Just as I was writing yesterday Dr. Gratzl sent up the hotel clerk to ask us to
dinner. We went, they live in the Hellbrunnerstrasse. He has 4 daughters and 2 sons and the
mother died three years ago. One of the sons is a student in Graz and the other is a lieutenant
in the army; he is engaged to be married. The daughters are quite old already; one of them
is 27 and is engaged. I think that is horrid. The youngest (!!!) is 24. It is so funny to say
"the youngest" and then she is 24. Father says she is very pretty and will certainly get married
At 24!! when she's not even engaged yet; I don't believe she will. They have a large garden,
3 dogs and 2 cats, which get on very well together. There are steps leading up and down from
room to room, it is lovely, and all the windows are bow-windows. Everything is so old-fashioned,
even the furniture I do think it's all so pretty. The hall is round like a church. After tea
we had candied fruits, stewed fruit, and pastries. I had a huge go of stewed fruit. They have
a gramaphone and then Leni and I played the piano. Just as we were going away Fritz, the student,
came in; he got quite red and in the hall Dr. Gratzl said to me: "You've made a conquest to-day."
I don't really believe I have, but I do like hearing it said. I'm sorry to say we are going
away to-morrow, for we are going to stay 2 days in Linz with Uncle Theodor whom I don't know.

April 17th. Uncle Theodor is 60 already and Aunt Lina is old too. Still, they are both awfully
nice. I did not know them before. We are staying with them. In the evening their son and his
wife came. They are my cousins, and they brought their little girl with them; I am really a
sort of aunt of hers. It's awfully funny to be an aunt when one is only 12 and 3/4 and when
one's niece is 9. To-day we went walking along the Danube. It only rained very gently and not
all the time.

April 18th. We are going home to-day. Of course we have sent a lot of picture postcards to
Mother and Dora and Hella; we sent one to Oswald too. He came home for Easter. I don't know
whether he will still be there to-morrow.

April 22nd. We've begun school again. Dora and I generally walk to school together since she
does not go to the Latin lesson now because it was too great a strain for her. The specialist
Mother took her to see wanted her to give up studying altogether, but she absolutely refuses
to do that. But I'm very furious with her; she's learning Latin in secret. When I came into
the room the day before yesterday she was writing out words and she shut her book quickly instead
of saying openly and honestly: Rita, don't tell Father and Mother that I'm still studying in
the evening: "I trust your word." She could trust me perfectly well. There are plenty of things
I could tell if I liked! Perhaps she fancies that I don't see that the tall fair man always
follows us to school in the morning. Hella has noticed him too, besides he is frightfully bald
and must be at least 30. And I'm certain she would not talk as much as she does to Hella and
me if it were not that she wants to talk about that. But this deceitfulness annoys me frightfully.
Otherwise we are now quite intimate with one another.

April 24th. We went to confession and communion to-day. I do hate confession; though it's never
happened to me what many girls have told me, even girls in the Fifth. No priest has ever asked
me about the 6th commandment; all they've asked is: In thought, word, or deed? Still, I do
hate going to confession, and so does Dora. It's much nicer for Hella as a Protestant for they
have no confession. And at communion I'm always terrified that the host might drop out of my
mouth. That would be awful. I expect one would be immediately excommunicated as a heretic.
Dora was not allowed to come to confession and com., Father would not let her. She must not
go out without her breakfast.

April 26th. In the Third there really is a girl who dropped the host out of her mouth. There
was a frightful row about it. She said it was not her fault the priest's hand shook so. It's
quite true, he was very old, and that is why I'm always afraid it will happen to me. It's much
better when the priest is young, because then that can never happen. Father says that the girl
won't be excommunicated for this, and luckily one of her uncles is a distinguished prelate.
He is her guardian too. That will help her out.

April 27th. To-day we got to know this girl in the interval. She is awfully nice and she says
she really did not do it on purpose for she is frightfully pious and perhaps she's going to
be a nun. I am pious too, we go to church nearly every Sunday, but I would not go into a convent,
not I. Dora says people generally do that when they've been crossed in love, because then the
world seems empty and hateful. She looked so frightfully sentimental that I said: Seems to
me you've a fancy that way yourself? Then she said: "No, thank goodness, I've no reason for
that." Of course what she meant was that she was not crossed in love but the other way. No
doubt the tall man in the mornings. I looked hard at her for a long time and said: "I congratulate
you on your good fortune. But Hella and I wish he was not bald," then she said with an astonished
air: "Bald? What are you talking about, he has the lofty brow of a thinker."

27th. To-day Mademoiselle came for the first time. I have forgotten to say that Dora has to
go out every day for two hours to sit and walk in the sunshine. Since Mother is not very well
and can't walk much, we've engaged the Mad. Father says that when I have time I must go too
"as a precautionary measure." I don't like the idea at all, it's much too dull; besides I have
simply no time. Mad. is coming 3 times a week, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, and on Mondays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays I have my music lesson, so I can't go; so Finis and Jubilation! That's
what Oswald always says at the end of the year and at the end of term. Still, she's very pretty,
has fair curly hair, huge grey eyes with black lashes and eyebrows, but she speaks so fast
that I can't understand all she says. On the other 3 days an Englishwoman is to come, but we
have not got one yet, they are all so expensive. It does seem funny to me to get a salary for
going out with grown up girls, that's only an amusement. With regular tomboys, such as we saw
last year in Rathaus Park, it would be different. As for the French or English conversation!
If they did not want to talk what would it matter? And besides why should one want to talk
either French or English, it's so stupid.

April 28th. The Richters were here to-day, and the eldest son came too, the lieutenant from
Lemberg; he is awfully handsome and made hot love to Dora; Walter is very nice too, he is at
the School of Forestry in Modling; to-morrow the lieutenant is going to bring Dora one of Tolstoi's
books to read. Then they will do some music together, she piano and he violin; it's a pity
I can't play as well as Dora yet. At Whitsuntide Walter is coming too and Viktor (that means
conqueror) is on furlough for 6 months, because he's ill, or because he is said to be ill;
for one does not look like that when one is really ill.

May 4th. Lieutenant R. is always coming here, he must be frightfully smitten with Dora. But
Father won't have it at any price. He said to Dora to-day:

"You get this gay young spark out of your head; he is no good. But at sight of a uniform there
is no holding you girls. I've no objection to you doing music together for an hour or two;
but this perpetual running to and fro with books and notes is all humbug."

May 6th. Lieutenant R. walks with us, that is with Dora, to school every day. He is supposed
to lie in bed late every morning, for he is really ill but for Dora's sake he gets up frightfully
early and comes over from Heitzing and waits in ---- Street. Of course I go on alone with Hella
and we all meet In ---- Street, so that no one shall notice anything at school.

May 13th. To-morrow is Mother's birthday and Viktor (when I am talking about him to Dora I
always speak of him as V.) brought her some lovely roses and invited us all to go there next
Sunday. In the hall he called me "the Guardian Angel of our Love." Yes, that is what I am and
always shall be; for he really deserves it and Dora too is quite different from what she used
to be. Hella says one can see for oneself that love ennobles; up till now she has always thought
that to be mere poetical fiction.

May 15th. Father said: I don't care much about these visits to the Richters as long as that
young jackanapes is still there, but Mother can't very well refuse. We shall wear our green
coats and skirts with the white blouses with the little green silk leaves for Dora does not
like to wear all white except in summer. And because the leaves on the blouses are clover leaves,
that is because of their meaning. We are looking forward to it tremendously. I do hope Mother
will be all right, for she is in bed to-day. It's horrid being ill anyhow, but when being ill
interferes with other people's pleasure it's simply frightful.

May 16th. The day before yesterday was Mother's birthday; but it was not so jolly as usual
because Mother is so often ill; for a birthday present I painted her a box with a spray of
clematis, which looks awfully chic. Dora gave her a book cover embroidered with a spray of
Japanese cherries, I don't know what Father gave her, money I think, because on her birthday
and name day he always hands her an envelope. But since Mother is not well we were not very
cheerful, and when we drank her health at dinner she wiped her eyes when she thought we were
not looking. Still, it's not so dangerous as all that; she is able to go out and doesn't look
bad. I think Mother's awfully smart, she looks just as well in her dressing gown as when she's
dressed up to go out. Dora says that if she had been made ill by her husband she would hate
him and would never let her daughters marry. That's all very well, but one ought to be quite
sure that that is why one has become ill. They say that is why Aunt Dora doesn't like Father.
Certainly Father is not so nice to her as to other relations or to the ladies who some to see
Mother. But after all, Aunt Dora has no right to make scenes about it to Father, as Dora says
she does. Mother's the only person with any right to do that. Dora says she is afraid that
it will come to Mother's having to have an operation. Nothing would ever induce me to undergo
an operation, it must be horrible, I know because of Hella and the appendicitis. But Dora says:
"Anyone who's had five children must be used to that sort of thing." I shall pray every night
that Mother may get well without an operation. I expect we shan't all go away together at Whitsuntide
this year, for Mother and Dora are to go to a health resort, most likely to Franzensbad.

May 18th. It was lovely at the Richters; Walter was there from Modling, he was awfully nice,
and said I was so like my sister that it was difficult to tell us apart. That's a frightful
cram, but I know what he really meant. He plays the flute splendidly, and the three played
a trio, so that I was frightfully annoyed with myself for not having worked harder at my music.
From to-morrow on I shall practice 2 hours every day, if I can possibly find time. Next winter
Viktor is going to found a private dramatic club, so he must be going to stay more than six
months in Vienna. Walter thinks Dora awfully charming, and when I said: "The great pity is
that she's got such frightful anemia," he said: In a man's eyes that is no drawback whatever,
as you can see in my brother. Moreover, that illness is not a real illness, but often makes
a girl more charming than ever, as you can see in your sister.

Day before yesterday Miss Maggie Lundy came for the first time; anybody can have her for me.
She wears false hair, flaxen. She says she is engaged, but Dora says, has been. I simply don't
believe it. V. says Mad. is awfully pretty. When I asked Dora if she was not jealous, she said
she didn't care, she was quite sure of his love. He means to leave the army and go into the
civil service, and then he will be able to marry. But Dora said, there's plenty of time for
that, a secret engagement is much nicer. Then she noticed she'd given herself away, and she
blushed like anything and said: You naturally must be engaged before you are married, mustn't
you?--of course she is secretly engaged, but she won't tell me about it. What's the good of
my being the "Guardian Angel of their Love?" If he only knew.

May 19th. I really ought to practice to-day, but I simply have no time, first of all I had
my lesson anyhow, and secondly something awful happened to Dora. She left her diary lying about
in the school; and because we have our religion lesson in the Fifth I saw a green bound book
lying under the third bench. Great Scott, I thought, that looks like Dora's diary. I went up
as quickly as I could and put my satchel over it. Later in the lesson I picked it up. When
I got home at 1 o'clock I did not say anything at first. After dinner she began rummaging all
over the place, but without saying anything to me, and then I said quite quietly: "Do you hap--pen
to be look--ing for your di--ar--y? Here it is; you--left--it in--the--fifth--class--un--der--the--third--bench."
(I kept her on tenter hooks that way.) She got as white as a sheet and said: "You are an angel.
If any one else had found it, I should have been expelled and Mad. would have had to drown
herself." "Oh, it can't be as bad as all that," I said, for what she said about Mad. was frightfully
exciting. In class I had looked chiefly at what she had written about V. But I could not read
it there, because it was written very small and close together and was several pages, but I
had not looked much at what she had written about Mad. "Did you read it?" "No, only where it
happened to come open because there's a page torn out." "About V. or about Mad?" "A little
about Mad; but tell me all about it; I shan't tell anyone. For if I'd wanted to betray you,
you know quite well. . . ." And then she told me all about Mad. But first I had to promise
that I would not even tell Hella. Mad. is secretly engaged to a man to whom she has given "the
utmost gifts of love," that is to say she has . . . . She is madly in love with him, and they
would marry directly but he is a lieutenant too, and they have not enough money for the security.
She says that when one really loves a man one can bear everything for his sake. She has often
been to his rooms, but she has to be frightfully careful for her father would kill her if he
found out. Dora has seen the lieutenant and says he is very handsome, but that V. is much handsomer.
Mad. says that you can't trust men as a rule, but that her lover is quite different, that he
is true as steel. I am sure V. is too.

May 21st. When Mad. came to-day I simply could not look at her while Mother was there and Dora
says I made an awful fool of myself. For I went out walking with them to-day, and when we met
a smart-looking officer I hemmed and looked at Dora. But she didn't know why. Mad. is the daughter
of a high official in the French military service and she only took her teacher's degree in
order to get free from her Mother's "tyranny;" she nagged at her frightfully and until she
began to give lessons she was never allowed to go out alone. Dora says she is very refined
in her speech, especially when she is talking about these things. Of course about them she
always speaks German, for it's much more difficult to say it in French, and probably Dora would
not understand it and then Mad. would only have to translate it. She is called Sylvia and he
calls her Sylvette. Mad. says that if one is madly in love with a man one does whatever he
asks. But I don't see that one need do that, for he might ask the most idiotic things; he might
ask you to get the moon out of the skies, or to pull out a tooth for his sake. Dora says she
can understand it quite well; that I still lack the true inwardness of thought and feeling.
It looks like utter nonsense. But since it sounds fine I've written it down, and perhaps I
shall find a use for it some day when I'm talking to Walter. Mad. is always frightfully anxious
lest she should get a baby. If she did she's sure her father would kill her. The lieutenant
is in the flying corps. He hopes he's going to invent a new aeroplane, and that he will make
a lot of money out of it. Then he will be able to marry Mad. But it would be awful if something
happened and she got a baby already.

May 22nd. Dora asked me to-day how it was I knew all about these things, whether Hella had
told me. I did not want to give Hella away, so I said quite casually: "Oh, one can read all
about that in the encyclopedia." But Dora laughed and said: "You are quite on the wrong scent;
you can't find a tenth of all those things in the encyclopedia, and what you do find is no
good. In these matters it is absolutely no good depending on books." First of all she would
not tell me any more, but after a time she told me a good deal, especially the names of certain
parts, and about fertilisation, and about the microscopic baby which really comes from the
husband, and not as Hella and I had thought, from the wife. And how one knows whether a woman
is fruitful. That is really an awful word. In fact almost every word has a second meaning of
that sort, and what Dora says is quite true, one must be fearfully careful when one is talking.
Dora thinks it would be best to make a list of all such words, but there are such a frightful
lot of them that one never could. The only thing one can do is to be awfully careful; but one
soon gets used to it. Still it happened to Dora the other day that she said to V.: I don't
want any intercourse. And that really means "the utmost gifts of love," so Mad. told her. But
V. was so well-mannered that he did not show that he noticed anything; and it did not occur
to Dora until afterwards what she had said. It's really awfully stupid that every ordinary
word should have such a meaning. I shall be so frightfully careful what I say now, so that
I shan't use any word with two meanings. Mad. says it's just the same in French. We don't know
whether it is the same in English and we could never dream of asking that awful fright, Miss
Lundy. Very likely she does not know the first thing about it anyhow. I know a great deal more
than Hella now, but I can't tell her because of betraying Dora and Mad. Perhaps I can give
her a hint to be more careful in what she says, so as not to use any word with two meanings.
That is really my duty as a friend.

May 23rd. I quite forgot. Last week Oswald had his written matriculation exam, he wrote a postcard
every day and Mother was frightfully annoyed because he made such silly jokes all the time
that we could not really tell how he got on. Dora and I are awfully excited because next Monday
we are going to the aerodome with Frau Richter and her niece who is at the conservatoire. Lieutenant
Streinz is going to fly too. Of course we'll motor out because the railway is not convenient.
Of course Viktor will be there, but he is motoring over with some other officers. It's a great
pity, for it would have been lovely if he'd been in our car. By the way, I saved the class
to-day, the school inspector has been this week and examined our class first in History and
then in German, and I was the only one who knew all that Frau Doktor M. had told us about the
Origin of Fable. The insp. was very complimentary and afterwards Frau Doktor M. said: its quite
true one can always depend upon Lainer; she's got a trustworthy memory. When we were walking
home she was awfully nice: "Do you know, Lainer, I feel that I really must ask your pardon."
I was quite puzzled and Hella asked: But why? She said: "It seemed to me this year that you
were not taking quite so much interest in your German lessons as you did last year; but now
you've reinstated yourself in my good opinion." Afterwards Hella said: I say you know, Frau
Doktor M. is not so far wrong when I think of all that we used to read last year so that we
might know everything when the lesson came, and when I think of what we do this year!!! You
know very well -- -- -- --. Hella is quite right, but still one can learn in spite of those
things, one can't be always talking about them. And then it's quite easy to learn for such
an angel as Frau Doktor M. Hella says that I got as red as a turkey cock from pride because
I could say it all in the very words of Frau Doktor M., but it was not so, for first of all
I was not a bit puffed up about it, and secondly I really don't know myself how I managed to
say it all. I only felt that Frau Doktor M. is so annoyed when no one offers to answer a question,
and so I took it on.

May 25th. Confound it, I could slap myself a hundred times. How could I be so stupid! Now we're
not allowed to go to the aerodome. Father only let us go because Viktor is in Linz and Father
believed he was going to stay there another fortnight. And at dinner to-day I made a slip and
said: "It is a pity there's no room for five in our car. If Fraulein Else were not coming Lieutenant
Richter could come with us." Dora kicked me under the table and I tried to brazen it out, but
Father was so angry and said. "Hullo, is the flying man coming? No, no, children, nothing doing.
I shall make your excuses to Frau Richter directly. I'm not having any, did not I tell you
you weren't to see the fellow any more?" Of course this last was to Dora. Dora did not say
anything but she did not eat any pudding or fruit, and as soon as we were back in our room
she gave it me hot, saying: You did that on purpose, you little beast, but really you are only
a child whom I never ought to have trusted, and so on. It's really too bad to say I did it
on purpose, as if I envied her. Besides it's bad for me as well as for her, for I like him
very much too, for he makes no difference between us and treats me exactly like Dora. Of course
we are not on speaking terms now, and what infuriated me more than anything was that she said
she grudged every word she had said to me in this connection: "Pearls before Swine." What a
rude thing to say. So I am an S. But I should like to know who told most. I forsooth? Anyhow
I'm quite sure that I shall never talk to her again about anything of that sort. Thank goodness
I have a friend in Hella. She would never say or think anything of the kind of me.

May 26th. Neither of us could sleep a wink all night; Dora cried frightfully, I heard her though
she tried to stifle it, and I cried too, for I was thinking all the time what I could do to
prevent Viktor from thinking unkindly of me. That would be awful. Then I thought of something,
and chance or I ought to say luck helped me. Viktor does not walk to school with us any longer,
because the girls of the Fifth have seen us several times, but he comes to meet Dora when she
comes away at 1 o'clock. So quite early I telephoned to him at a public telephone call office,
for I did not dare to do it at home. Dora was so bad that she could not go to school so I was
going alone with Hella. I telephoned saying a friend was ringing him up, that was when the
maid answered the telephone, and then she called him. I told him: that whatever happened he
was not to think unkindly of me and I must see him at 1 o'clock because Dora was ill. He must
wait at the corner of ---- Street. All through lessons I was so upset that I don't in the least
know what we did. And at 1 o'clock he was there all right, and I told him all about it and
he was so awfully kind and he consoled me; he consoled me. That's quite different from the
way Dora behaved. I was so much upset that I nearly cried, and then he drew me into a doorway
and put his arm round me and with his own handkerchief wiped away my tears. I shall never tell
Dora about that. Then he asked me to be awfully kind to Dora because she had such a lot to
bear. I don't really know what she has to bear, but still, for his sake, because it's really
worth doing it for that, after dinner I put a note upon her desk, saying: V. sends oceans of
love to you and hopes you will be all right again by Monday. At the same time his best thanks
for the book. I put the note in Heidepeter's Gabriel, which she had lent to me to read and
put it down very significantly. When she read it she flushed up, swallowed a few times and
said: "Have you seen him? Where was it and when?" Then I told her all about it and she was
frightfully touched and said: "You really are a good girl, only frightfully undependable."
What do you mean, undependable? She said: Yes undependable, for one simply must not blurt out
things in that way; never mind, I will try to forget. Have you finished Heidepeter's Gabriel
yet? "No," I said, "I'm not going to read anyone's book with whom I'm angry." In the end we
made it up, but of course we did not talk any more about it and I did not say a word about
that business with the handkerchief.

May 29th. On June 10th or 12th, Mother and Dora are going to Frazensbad, because they both
have to take mud baths. Besides, Father says that a change will give Dora new thoughts, so
that she won't go about hanging her head like a sick chicken. To-day Dora told me something
very interesting. Unmarried men have little books and with these they can go to visit women
"of a certain kind" in Graben and in the Karntnerstrasse. There, Dora says, they have to pay
10 florins or 10 crowns. In Dora's class there is a girl whose father is police surgeon, and
they have all to be examined every month to see if they are healthy, and if not they can't
visit these "ladies," and that's why the Preusses can never keep a servant. In my bath yesterday
I noticed that I had a certain line, so I must be fr--. But I shan't have more than 1 or 2
children at most for the line is very faint. When I'm studying I often think of such things,
and then I read a whole page and turn over and have not the remotest idea what I've been reading.
It's very tiresome, for soon the other school insp. for maths. and the other subjects is coming,
and I should not like to make a fool of myself; especially not because perhaps the inspectors
talk us over with one another about who is clever and who stupid.

May 30th. The concert was glorious. When I hear such grand music I always have to keep myself
well in hand for I fear I should cry. It's very stupid, of course, but at such times I can
only think of sad things, even if it's just a small piece. Dora can play Brahms' Hungarian
Dances, too, but that never makes me want to cry. I only get annoyed because I can't play them
myself. I could all right, but I have not got patience to practice long enough. I never tell
anyone that I want to cry when I am listening to music, not even Hella, though I tell her everything,
except of course about Mad. Yesterday I made a fool of myself; at least so Dora says. I don't
know how it happened, we were talking about books at supper, and I said: "What's the use of
books, one can't learn anything out of them; everything is quite different from what they say
in books." Then Father got in a wax and said: "You little duffer, you can thank your stars
there are books from which you can learn something. Anyone who can't understand a book always
says it is no good." Dora gave me a look, but I didn't know what she meant, and I went on:
"Yes, but there's an awful lot that the encyclopedia puts all wrong." "What have you been ferreting
in the encyclopedia for; we shall have to keep the key of the bookcase in a safer place." Thank
goodness Dora came to my help and said: "Gretel wanted to look up something about the age of
elephants and mammoths, but it's quite different in the encyclopedia from what Prof. Rigl told
her last year." I was saved. Dora can act splendidly; I've noticed it before. In the evening
she rowed me, and said: "You little goose, will you never learn caution; first that stupidity
about Viktor and to-day this new blunder! I've helped you out of a hole once but I shan't do
it again." And then she spent all the time writing a letter, to him of course--! Hella and
I have just been reading a lot of things in the encycl., about Birth and Pregnancy, and I on
my own about abor--; we came across the words Embyro and Foetus, and I said nothing at the
time but tied 2 knots in my handkerchief to remind me, and yesterday I looked them up. Mad.
need not be anxious even if she really did get like that. But every doctor knows about it and
one often dies of it. I wonder if Mad. knows anything about it. We were talking about the differences
between men and women, and it came out that when Hella has her bath she is still washed by
Anna who has been with them for 12 years. Nothing would induce me to allow that, I would not
let anyone wash me, except Mother; certainly not Dora, for I don't want her to know what I
look like. The nurse in the hosp. told Hella that she is developed just like a little nymph,
so lovely and symetrical. Hella says that is nothing unusual, that every girl looks like that,
that the female body is Nature's Work of Art. Of course she's read that somewhere, for it does
not really mean anything. Nature's work of art; it ought to be: a work of art made by husband
and wife!!!

May 30th. Dora and Mother are going to Franzensbad on June 6th, directly after Whitsuntide.
Dora has got another new coat and skirt, grey with blue stripes; yesterday our white straw
hats came, it suits me very well says Hella and everyone, with white ribbons and wild roses.
There might have been a fearful row about what's just happened. When I went to telephone I
had my Christmas umbrella with the rose-quartz handle and I left it in the telephone box; the
girl in the tobacco shop found it there, and as she knows me she brought it here and gave it
to the porter who brought it upstairs. Thank goodness it occurred to me at once to say that
I went into the tobacco shop to buy stamps and I must have left it in the shop. No one noticed
anything.

May 31st. They wanted me to go and stay with Hella for the month when Mother and Dora are away.
It would be awfully nice, but I'm not going to, for I want to stay with Father. What would
he do all alone at meal times, and whom would he have to talk to in the evenings? Father was
really quite touched when I said this and he stroked my hair as he can and no one else, not
even Mother. So I'm going to stay at home whatever happens. Flowers are very cheap now, so
I shall put different flowers on the table every day, I shall go to the Market every day to
buy a little posy, so that they can always be fresh. It would be stupid for me to go to the
Brs., why should I, Resi has been with us for such a long time, she knows how to do everything
even if Mother is not there and everything else I can arrange. Father won't want for anything.

June 1st. We've had such an experience to-day! It's awful; it's quite true then that one takes
off every stitch when one is madly fond of anyone. I never really believed it, and I'm sure
Dora did not, although Mad. hinted it to her; but it's true. We've seen it with our own eyes.
I was just sitting and reading Storm's The Rider of the Grey Horse and Dora was arranging some
writing paper to take to Franzensbad when Resi came and said: Fraulein Dora, please come here
a moment, I want you to look at something! From the tone of her voice I saw there was something
up so I went too. At first Resi would not say what it was but Dora was generous and said: "It's
all right, you can say everything before her." Then we went into Resi's room and from behind
the curtain peeped into the mezzanin. A young married couple live there!!! At least Resi says
people say they are not really married, but simply live together!!!! And what we saw was awful.
She was absolutely naked lying in bed without any of the clothes on, and he was kneeling by
the bedside quite n-- too, and he kissed her all over, everywhere!!! Dora said afterwards it
made her feel quite sick. And then he stood up--no, I can't write it, it's too awful, I shall
never forget it. So that's the way of it, it's simply frightful. I could never have believed
it. Dora went as white as a sheet and trembled so that Resi was terribly frightened. I nearly
cried with horror, and yet I could not help laughing too. I was really afraid he would stifle
her because he's so big and she's so small. And Resi says he is certainly much too big for
her, and that he nearly tears her. I don't know why he should tear her but certainly he might
have crushed her. Dora was so terrified she had to sit down and Resi hurried to get her a glass
of water, because she believed she was going to faint. I had not imagined it was anything like
that, and Dora certainly had not either. Or she would never have trembled so. Still I really
don't see why she should tremble like that. There is no reason to be frightened, one simply
need not marry, and then one need never strip off every stitch, and oh dear, poor Mademoiselle
who is so small and the lieutenant is very tall. But just think if anyone is as fat as Herr
Richter or our landlord. Of course Herr Richter is at least 50, but last January the landlord
had another little girl, so something must have happened. No, I'm sure it's best not to marry,
for it is really too awful. We did not look any more for then came the worst, suddenly Dora
began to be actually sick, so that she could hardly get back to our room. If she had not been
able to, everything would have come out. Mother sent for the doctor directly and he said that
Dora was very much overworked; that it was a good thing she was going away from Vienna in a
few days. No girl ought to study, it does not pay. Then he said to me: "You don't look up to
much either. What are you so hollow-eyed for?" "I'm so frightened about Dora," I said. "Fiddlededee,"
said the doctor, "that does not give anyone black rings round the eyes." So it must be true
that one gets to look ill when one always has to think about such things. But how can one help
it, and Hella says: It's awfully interesting to have black rings under the eyes and men like it.

We were going to make an excursion to-morrow to Kahlenberg and Hermannskogel, but probably
it won't come off. Its 11 already and I'm fearfully tired from writing so much; I must go to
bed. I do hope I Shall be able to sleep, but -- -- -- --

June 3rd. Father took Hella and me to Kahlenberg; we enjoyed ourselves tremendously. After
dinner, when Father was reading the paper in the hotel, we went to pick flowers, and I told
Hella all about what we'd seen on Friday. She was simply speechless, all the more since she
had never heard what Mad. told us about taking off everything. She won't marry either, for
it's too disagreeable, indeed too horrid.--The doctor said too: This perpetual learning is
poisonous for young girls in the years of development. If he only knew what we had seen. Hella
is frightfully annoyed that she was not there. She can be jolly glad, I don't want to see it
a second time, and I shall never forget it all my life long; what I saw at the front door was
nothing to this. Then Hella went on making jokes and said: "I say, just think if it had been
Viktor." "Oh, do shut up," I screamed, and Father thought we were quarrelling and called out:
"You two seem to be having a dispute in the grand style." If he'd only known what we were talking
about!!! Oswald has been home since Friday evening; he did not arrive till half past 10. But
he did not come on the excursion with us yesterday, although Father would have liked him to;
he said he would find it much too dull to spend the day with two "flappers;" that means that
we're not grown up enough for him and is a piece of infernal cheek especially as regards Hella.
She says she will simply ignore him in future. Since I am his sister I can't very well do that,
but I shan't fetch and carry for him as he would like me to. He's no right to insult even his
sister.

Dora has just said to me: It's horrible that one has to endure that (you know what!!! -- --
-- --) when one is married. Resi had told her about those two before, and that only the Jews
do it just like that. She said that other people did not strip quite naked and that perhaps
it's different in some other ways!! -- -- -- But Mad. implied that it was just that way, only
she did not say anything about the crushing; but I suppose that's because of the cruelty of
the Jews -- -- --. I'm afraid every night that I'm going to dream about it, and Dora has dreamed
about it already. She says that whenever she closes her eyes she sees it all as if it were
actually before her.

June 4th. We understand now what Father meant the other day when he was speaking about Dr.
Diller and his wife and said: "But they don't suit one another at all." I thought at the time
he only meant that it looks so absurd for so tiny a woman to go about with a big strong man.
But that's only a minor thing; the main point is something quite different!!!! Hella and I
look at all couples now who go by arm in arm, thinking about them from that point of view,
and it amuses us so much as we are going home that we can hardly keep from laughing. But really
it's no laughing matter, especially for the woman.

June 5th. This morning Mother took Dora with her to pay a farewell call at the Richter's. But
there was no one at home, that is Frau R. was certainly at home, but said she was not because
they are very much offended with Father. In the afternoon Dora and I had a lot of things to
get, and we met Viktor, by arrangement of course. Dora cried a lot; they went into the Minorite
church while I went for a walk in Kohlmarkt and Herrengasse. He is going to America in the
beginning of July, before Dora comes home. He has given her some exquisite notepaper stamped
with his regimental arms, specially for her to write to him on, and a locket with his portrait.
To-morrow she is going to send him her photo, through me, I shall be awfully glad to take it.
Dora has been much nicer to me lately.

June 6th. Mother and Dora left early this morning. Mother has never gone away from us before
for long at a time, so I cried a lot and so did she. Dora cried too, but I know on whose account.
Father and I are alone now. At dinner he said to me: "My little housewife." It was so lovely.
But it's frightfully quiet in the house, for 2 people don't talk so much as 4. It made me feel
quite uncomfortable. To-day I talked several things over with Resi. What I think worst of all
is that one saw the whole of his behind, it was really disgusting. Dora said the other day
she thought it was positively infamous. Resi said they might at least have pulled down the
blind so that nobody could see in, that's what respectable people would do. But respectable
people simply would not strip, or at least they'd cover themselves respectably with the bedclothes.
Then Resi told me some more about the bank clerk and his wife, that is not-wife. She does not
know if her parents know about it, and what excuse she makes for not living at home. She is
not a Jewess, though he is a Jew. Resi absolutely curled up with laughing because I said: "Ah,
that is why he insists that they shall both strip though ordinarily only the wife has to strip."
But she herself said a little while ago that only Jews do it that way, and to-day she laughed
as if I were talking utter nonsense. Really she does not know exactly herself, and she cloaks
it with laughter because she's annoyed, first because she does not know, and then also I'm
sure because she really began to talk about the matter. One thing that puzzles me is that I
never dream about it. I should like to know whether perhaps Dora never really dreamed of it,
though she pretended she did. As for Hella saying she dreamed of it the day before yesterday,
I'm sure that was pure invention, for she was not there at all. She says it's a good thing
she was not for if she had been she would have burst out laughing. But I fancy if she'd seen
what we saw she would have found there was nothing to laugh at.

June 7th. It's frightfully dull after dinner and in the evening before bed time, especially
because this year, since the affair at the front door, Dora and I have always had plenty to
talk about. I miss it. I wish Hella would come and stay with us for the 4 weeks. But she does
not want to. Father had work to do to-day, so I'm quite alone and feel as if I'd like to cry.

June 9th. Yesterday, when I was feeling so melancholy, Resi came to make my bed, and we talked
about the married couple opposite, and then she told me awful things about a young married
couple where she was once. She left because they always went into the bath together; she says
she's certain that something happened there. And then she told me about an old gentleman who
made advances to her; but of course she would not have anything to do with him; besides he
was married, and anyhow he would never have married a servant for he was a privy councillor.
Yesterday Father said: Poor little witch, it's very lonely for you now; but look here, Resi
is no fit company for you; when your little tongue wants to wag, come to my room. And I was
awfully stupid, I began to cry like anything and said. "Father, please don't be angry, I'll
never think and never talk of such things any more." Father did not know at first what I meant,
but afterwards it must have struck him, for he was so kind and gentle, and said: "No, no, Gretel,
don't corrupt your youth with such matters, and when there's anything that bothers you, ask
Mother, but not the servants. A girl of good family must not be too familiar with servants.
Promise me." And then, though I'm so big he took me on his knee like a child and petted me
because I was crying so. "It's all right, little Mouse, don't worry, you must not get so nervous
as Dora. Give me a nice kiss, and then I'll come with you to your room and stay with you till
you go to sleep." Of course I stayed awake on purpose as long as I could, till a quarter to 11.

And then I dreamed that Father was lying in Dora's bed so that when I woke up early in the
morning I really looked across to see if he had not gone to bed there. But of course I'd only
dreamed it.

June 12th. To-morrow there's a great school excursion; I am so glad, a whole day with Frau
Doktor M. and without any lessons. We are going up Eisernes Tor. Last year there was no outing,
because the Fourth did not want to go to the Anninger, but to the Hochschneeberg, and the Head
did not want to go there.

June 13th. We had a lovely outing. Hella and I spent the whole day with Frau Doktor M.; in
the afternoon Franke said: "I say, why do you stick to Frau Doktor like that? One can't get
a word with you." So then we went for a good walk through the forest with Franke and she told
us about a student who is in the Eighth now and who is madly in love with her. For all students
are in love with her, so she says. We were not much interested in that, but then she told us
that Frau Doktor M. is secretly engaged to a professor in Leipzig or some other town in Germany.
Her cousin is Frau Doktor's dressmaker, and she is quite certain of it. Her parents are opposed
to it because he is a Jew but they are frantically in love with one another and they intend
to marry. And then we asked Franke, since she is a Jewess too whether it was all true what
Mali, who was here when Resi was in hospital, had told us about the Jews. And Franke said:
"Oh yes, it is true I can confirm it in every point. But it's not so bad about the cruelty,
every man is cruel, especially in this matter." No doubt she's right, but it's horrible to
think that our lovely and refined Frau Doktor M is going to have a cruel husband. Hella says
that if she is satisfied, I don't need to get excited about it. But perhaps she does not know
that -- -- --. When we came out of the wood the Herr Religionsprofessor who is awfully fond
of Frau Doktor M. called out: "Frau Doktor, you have lost your two satellites!" And everybody
laughed because we'd come back. Father came to fetch Hella and me, and since it was nearly
11 o'clock Hella stayed the night with us. It was awfully nice, but at the same time I was
sorry because I could not have any more talk with Father. When we were getting up in the morning
we splashed one another and played the fool generally, so that we were nearly late for school.
The staff was still in high spirits, including Professor Wilke, about whom we had not bothered
ourselves all day; that is he did not come until the afternoon when he came to meet us on our
way. We believe he is in love with Frau Doktor M. too, for he went about with her all the time,
and it was probably on her account that he came. None of the other professors were there, for
they were all taking their classes in the different Gymnasiums.

June 14th. I am so excited. We were going to school to-day at 9 and suddenly we heard a tremendous
rattling with a sword; that is Hella heard it, for she always notices that sort of thing before
I do, and she said: "Hullo, that's an o-- in a frightful hurry," and looked round; "I say,
there's Viktor behind us" and he really was, he was saluting us and he said: Fraulein Rita,
can you give me a moment; you'll excuse me won't you, Fraulein Hella? He always calls me Rita,
and it shows what a nice refined kind of a man he is that he should know my friend's name.
Hella said directly: "Don't mention it, Herr Oberleutenant, don't let me be in your way if
it's anything important," and she went over to the other side of the street. He looked after
her and said: "What a lovely, well-mannered young lady your friend is." Then he came back to
the main point He has already had 2 letters from Dora, but not an answer to his letter, because
she can't fetch it from the post office, poste restante. Then he implored me to enclose a letter
from him in mine to Dora. But since Mother naturally reads my letters, I told him it was not
so simple as all that; but I knew of a splendid way out of the difficulty; I would write to
Mother and Dora at the same time, so that Dora could get hold of his letter while Mother was
not noticing. Viktor was awfully pleased and said: "You're a genius and a first-class little
schemer," and kissed my hand. Still, he might have left out the "little." If one's is so little,
one can't very well be a schemer. From the other side of the street Hella saw him kiss my hand.
She says I did not try to draw it away, but held it out to him like a grand lady and even dropped
it at the wrist. She says we girls of good family do that sort of thing by instinct. It may
be so, for I certainly did not do it intentionally. In the afternoon I wrote the two letters,
just the ordinary one to Mother and a short one to Dora with the enclosure, and took it to
the post myself.

June 16th. I've already got so used to being alone with Father that I take it as a matter of
course. We often drive in the Prater, or go in the evening to have supper in one of the parks,
and of course Hella comes with us. I am frightfully excited to know what Dora will write. I
forgot to write in my diary the other day that I asked Viktor if he was really going to New
York. He said he had no idea of doing anything of the kind, that had only been a false alarm
on the part of the Old Man. That's what he calls his father. I don't think it's very nice of
him, a little vulgar, and perhaps that is why Father can't stand him. In fact Father does not
like any officers very much, except Hella's father, but then he's fairly old already. I say,
Hella mustn't read that, it would put her in an awful wax; but her father really is at least
4 or 5 years older than Father.

June 17th. Frau Doktor M. is ill, but we don't know what's the matter with her. We were all
frightfuly dull at school. The head took her classes and we were left to ourselves in the interval.
I do hope she has not got appendicitis, that would be awful.

June 18th. She isn't back yet. Frau Doktor Steiner says she has very bad tonsillitis and won't
be able to come for at least a week.

June 19th. There was a letter from Dora to-day. I'm furious. Not a word about my sisterly affection,
but only: "Many thanks for your trouble." It's really too bad; he is quite different!! I shan't
forget this in a hurry. Hella says that she only hinted at it like that to be on the safe side.
But it's not true, for she knows perfectly well that Father never reads our letters. She simply
takes it as a matter of course. Yesterday was the first time I stayed away from school since
I went to the High School. Early in the morning I had such a bad sore throat and a headache,
so Father would not let me go. I got better as the day went on, but this morning I was worse
again. Most likely I shall have to stay at home for 2 or 3 days. Father wanted to send for
the doctor, but it really was not necessary.

June 20th. When Resi was doing our room to day she wanted to begin talking once more about
various things, but I said I did not particularly care to hear about such matters, and then
she implored me never to tell Mother and Father anything about what she had said to us about
the young married couple; she said she would lose her place and she would be awfully sorry
to do that.

June 21st. My knees are still trembling; there might have been a frightful row; luckily Father
was out. At half past 6, when Hella and I were having a talk, the telephone bell rang. Luckily
Resi had gone out too to fetch something so I answered the telephone, and it was Viktor! "I
must see you to-morrow morning early or at 1 o'clock; I waited for you in vain at 1 to-day."
Of course, for I was still ill, that is still am ill. But well or ill I must go to school to-morrow.
If Father had been at home; or even Resi, she might have noticed something. It would have been
very disagreeable if I had had to ask her not to give me away. Hella was frightfully cheeky,
she took the receiver out of my hand and said: "Please don't do this again, it's frightfully
risky for my friend." I was rather annoyed with her, but Hella said he certainly deserved a
lecture.

To-morrow we are going to a concert and I shall wear my new white dress. It does look rather
nice after all for sisters to be dressed alike. I've taken to wearing snails, *** Father calls
them "cow-pats;" but everyone else says it's exceedingly becoming.

     *** Flat rolls of hair-plait covering the ears.--Translators'
     Note.

June 22nd. He was awfully charming when he came up to us and said: "Can a repentant sinner
be received back into grace?" And he gave each of us a lovely rose. Then he handed me a letter
and said: "I don't think we need make any secret before your energetic friend." Really I did
not want to forward any more letters but I did not know how to say so without offending him,
for Dora's cheek is not his fault, and I did not want to say anything to-day, 1 because of
the roses, and 2 because Hella was there. There can't be more than 2 or 3 times more, so I
shan't bother. But Dora doesn't deserve it, really. Franke is a vulgar girl. She saw us together
the other day, and the next day she asked: Where did you pick up that handsome son of Mars?
Hella retorted: "Don't use such common expressions when you are speaking of Rita's cousin."
"Oh, a cousin, that's why he kisses her hand I suppose?" Since then we only speak to Franke
when we are positively obliged. Not to speak to her at all would be too dangerous, you never
can tell; but if we speak only a little, she can't take offence.

June 23rd. The school insp. came yesterday, the old one who always comes for Maths. He is so
kind and gentle that all the girls can answer everything; we like him better than the one who
comes for languages. Verbenowitsch was awfully puffed up because he praised her. Good Lord,
I've been praised often enough, but that does not make me conceited. Anyhow he did not call
on me yesterday because I'd been absent 4 days. Frau Doktor M. came back to-day. She looks
awfully pale and wretched, I don't know why; it's such a pity that she does not let us walk
home with her, except last year when there was all that fuss about Fraulein St.'s bead bag.
She bows to us all very politely when we salute her, but she won't walk with any of the pupils,
though Verbenowitsch is horribly pushing and is always hanging about on the chance.

June 26th. It's really stupid how anxious I am now at Communion lest the host should drop out
of my mouth. I was so anxious I was very nearly sick. Hella says there must be some reason
for it, but I don't know of any, except that the accident which that girl Lutter in the Third
had made me even more anxious that I was before. Hella says I'd better turn Protestant, but
nothing would induce me to do that; for after Com. one feels so pure and so much better than
one was before. But I'm sorry to say it does not last so long as it ought to.

June 27th. Mother is really ill. Father told me about it. He was awfully nice and said: If
only your Mother is spared to us. She is far from well. Then I asked: Father, what is really
wrong with Mother? And Father said: "Well, dear, it's a hidden trouble, which has really been
going on for a long time and has now suddenly broken out." "Will she have to have an operation?"
"We hope we shall be able to avoid that. But it's a terrible thing that Mother should be so
ill." Father looked so miserable when he said this that I did my best to console him and said:
"But surely the mud baths will make her all right, or why should she take them?" And Father
said: "Well, darling, we'll hope for the best." We went on talking for a long time, saying
that Mother must take all possible care of herself, and that perhaps in the autumn Aunt Dora
would come here to keep house. I asked Father, "Is it true that you don't like Aunt Dora?"
Father said: "Not a bit of it, what put that idea into your head?" So I said: "But you do like
Mother much better, don't you?" Father laughed and said: "You little goose, of course I do,
or I should have married Aunt Dora and not Mother." I should have liked awfully to ask Father
a lot more, but I did not dare. I really do miss Dora, especially in the evenings.

July 2nd. I was in a tremendous rage at school to-day. Professor W., the traitor, did not come
because he had confession and communion in the Gymnasium, and the matron did not know anything
about the subject so there was no one to take his class. Then the Herr Religionsprofessor took
it, he had come earlier than usual to write up the reports. But since the Jewish girls were
there too, of course there was no religion lesson. But the H. Rel. Prof. had a chat with us.
He asked each of us where we were going to spend the summer, and when I said I was going to
Rodaun, Weinberger said: I say, only to Rodaun! and several of the other girls chimed in: Only
to Rodaun; why that's only a drive on the steam tram. I was frightfully annoyed, for we generally
go to Tyrol or Styria; I said so directly, and then Franke said: Last year too, I think, you
went somewhere quite close to Vienna, where was it, Hain--, and then she stopped and made as
if she had never heard of Hainfeld. Of course that was all put on, but she's very angry because
we won't speak to her since that business about the cousin! But now I was to learn what true
friendship is. While I was getting still more angry, Hella said: Rita's Mother is now in Franzensbad,
the world-famous health resort; she is ill, and Prof. Sch. has to go and see her at least once
a week. The Herr Rel. Prof. was awfully nice and said: Rodaun is a lovely place. The air there
is very fine and will certainly do your Mother a lot of good. That's the chief thing, isn't
it children? I hope that God will spare all your parents for many years. When the Herr Rel.
Prof. said that, Lampel, whose Mother died last winter, burst out crying, and I cried too,
for I thought of my talk with Father. Weinberger and Franke thought I was crying because I
was annoyed because we were only going to Rodaun. In the interval Franke said: After all, there's
no harm in going to Rodaun, that's no reason for crying. But Hella said: "Excuse me, the Lainers
can go anywhere they please, they are so well off that many people might envy them. Besides,
her Mother and her sister are in Franzensbad now, where everything is frightfully expensive,
and in Rodaun they have rented a house all for themselves. Rita is crying because she is anxious
about her Mother, not because of anything you said." Of course we don't speak a word to Franke
now. Mother does not want us to anyhow, she did not like her at all when she met her last year.
Mother has a fine instinct in such matters.

July 6th. We broke up to-day. I have nothing but Very Goods, except of course in ---- Natural
History! That was to be expected. What -- -- (I can't bring myself to write the name) said
was perfectly right. Nearly all the girls who were still there brought Frau Doktor M. and Frau
Doktor St. flowers as farewell tokens. This time, Hella and I were allowed to go with Frau
Doktor M. to the metropolitan. When we kiss her hand she always blushes, and we love doing
it. This summer holidays she is going to -- -- -- Germany, of course; really Hella need not
have asked; it's obvious!!!

July 8th. Mother and Dora are coming home today. We are going to meet them at the station.
By the way, I'd quite forgotten. The other day Father hid a new 5 crown piece in my table napkin,
and when I lifted up my table napkin it fell out, and Father said: In part payment of your
outlay on flowers for the table. Father is such a darling, the flowers did not cost anything
like 5 crowns, 3 at most, for though they were lovely ones, I only bought fresh ones every
other day. Now I shall be able to buy Mother lots of roses, and I shall either take them to
the station or put them on her table. On the one hand I'm awfully glad Mother is coming home,
but on the other hand I did like being alone with Father for he always talked to me about everything
just as he does to Mother; that will come to an end now.

July 10th. Mother and Dora look splendid; I'm especially glad about Mother; for one can see
that she is quite well again. If we had not taken the house in Rodaun, we might just as well
go to Tyrol, for one can't deny it would be much nicer. Dora looks quite a stranger. It's absurd,
for one can't alter in 1 month, still, she really looks quite different; she does her hair
differently, parted over the ears. I have had no chance yet to say anything about the "trouble,"
and she has not alluded to it. In the autumn she will have to have a special exam. for the
Sixth because she went away a month before the end of term. Father says that is only pro forma
and that she must not take any lesson books to the country. Hella went away yesterday, she
and her Mother and Lizzi are going first to Gastein and then to stay with their uncle in Hungary.
Life is dull without Hella, much worse than without Dora; without her I was simply bored sometimes
in the evening, at bedtime. Dora gives it out that in Franzensbad people treated her as a grown-up
lady. I'm sure that's not true for anyone can see that she's a long way from being a grown-up
lady yet.

July 11th. I can't think what's happened to Dora. When she goes out she goes alone. She doesn't
tell me when she is going or where, and she hasn't said a word about Viktor. But he must know
that she is back. To-morrow we are going to Rodaun, by train of course, not by the steam tram.
The day after to-morrow, the 13th, Oswald has the viva voce exam for his matriculation. He
says that in every class there are at least 1 or several swotters, like Verbenowitsch in ours,
he says they spoil the pitch for the others, for, because of the swotters, the professors expect
so much more of the others and sit upon them. This may be so in the Gymnasium, but certainly
not at the High School. For though Verb. is always sucking up to the staff, they can't stand
her; they give her good reports, but none of them really like her. Mother says the 13th is
an unlucky day, and it makes her anxious about Oswald. Because of that she went to High Mass
yesterday instead of the 9 o'clock Mass as usual. I never thought of praying for Oswald, and
anyhow I think he'll get through all right.

July 13th. Thank goodness Oswald has wired he is through, that is he has wired his favourite
phrase: Finis with Jubilation. At any rate that did not worry Mother as he did over the written
exam., when he made silly jokes all the time. He won't be home until the 17th, for the matriculation
dinner is on the 15th. Father is awfully pleased too. It's lovely here; of course we have not
really got a whole house to ourselves, as Hella pretended at school, but a flat on the first
story; in the mezzanin a young married woman lives, that is to say a newly married couple!!
Whenever I hear that phrase it makes me shake with horror and laughter combined. Resi must
have thought of it too, for she looked hard at Dora and me when she told us. But they have
a baby already, so they are not really a newly married couple any more. The landlord, who lives
on the same floor as us, is having a swing put up for me in the garden for it is horrid not
to have a swing in the country.

July 16th. At last Dora has said something to me about Viktor, but she spoke very coldly; there
must be something up; she might just as well tell me; she really ought to seeing all that I've
done. I have not seen him since that last letter of June 27th; that time something must have
hap-- no that word means something quite different, there must be something up, but I do wonder
what. Hella is delighted with Gastein, she writes that the only thing wanting is me. I can
quite understand that, for what I want here is her. Before the end of term Ada wrote to ask
whether we were not coming to H. this year; she said she had such a frightful lot to tell me,
and she wants my advice. I shall be very glad to advise her, but I don't know what it is about.

July 18th. Something splendid, we are -- -- -- But no, I must write it all out in proper order.
Oswald came home yesterday, he is in great form and said jokingly to Dora that she is so pretty
he thinks he would fall in love with her if she were not his sister. Just before it was time
to go to supper, Mother called us in, and I was rather annoyed when I saw that it was only
a quarter to 8. Then Father came in with a paper in his hand as he often does when he comes
back from the office, and said: "Dear Oswald and you two girls, I wanted to give you and especially
Oswald a little treat because of the matriculation." Aha, I thought, the great prize after
all! Then Father opened the paper and said: "You have often wondered as children why we have
no title of nobility like the other Lainers. My grandfather dropped it, but I have got it back
again for you Oswald, and also for you two girls. Henceforward we shall call ourselves Lanier
von Lainsheim like Aunt Anna and your uncles." Oswald was simply speechless and I was the first
to pull myself together and give Father a great hug. But first of all he said: "Do credit to
the name." Oswald went on clearing his throat for a frightfully long time, and then he said:
Thank you, Father, I shall always hold the name in trust, and then they kissed one another.
We were on our best behaviour all through the evening, although Mother had ordered roast chicken
and Father had provided a bottle of champagne. I am frightfully happy; it's so splendid and
noble. Think of what the girls will say, and the staff! I'm frantically delighted. To-morrow
I must write and tell Hella all about it.

July 19th. I've managed it beautifully. I did not want to write just: We are now noble, so
I put it all in the signature, simply writing Always your loving friend Rita Lainer von Lainsheim.
I told Resi about it first thing this morning, but Father scolded me about that at dinner time
and said it was quite unnecessary; it seems the nobility has gone to your head. Nothing of
the sort, but it's natural that I should be frightfully glad and Dora too has covered a whole
sheet of paper writing her new name. Father says it does not really make us any different from
what we were before, but that is not true, for if it were he would not have bothered to revive
the title. He says it will make it easier for Oswald to get on, but I'm sure there's more in
it than that. Resi told the landlord about it and in the afternoon he and his wife called to
congratulate us.

July 20th. Oswald says he won't stay here, it's much too dull, he is going for a walking tour
through the Alps, to Grossglockner, and then to the Karawanken. He will talk of Father as the
"Old Man," and I do think it is so vulgar. Dora says it is absolutely flippant.

July 24th. Hella's answer came to-day; she congratulates me most heartily, and then goes on
to write that at first she was struck dumb and thought I'd gone crazy or was trying to take
her in. But her mother had already heard of it from her father for it had been published in
the Official Gazette. Now we are both noble, and that is awfully nice. For I have often been
annoyed that she was noble when I was not.

July 25th. Oswald left to-day. Father gave him 300 crowns for his walking tour, because of
the matriculation. I said: "In that case I shall matriculate as soon as I can" and Oswald said:
"For that one wants rather more brains in one's head than you girls have." What cheek, Frau
Doktor M. passed the Gymnasium matriculation and Frau Doktor Steiner passed it too as an extra.
Dora said quietly: Maybe I shall show you that your sister can matriculate too; anyhow you
have always said yourself that the chief thing you need to get through the matriculation is
cheek. Then I had a splendid idea and said: "But we girls have not got cheek, we study when
we have to pass an examination!" Mother wanted us to make it up with him, but we would not.
In the evening Dora said to me: Oswald is frantically arrogant, though he has had such a lot
of Satisfactories and has only just scraped through his exam. By the way here's another sample
of Oswald's stupidity; directly after the wire: "Finis with Jubilation" came another which
ought to have arrived first, for it had been handed in 4 hours earlier, with nothing but the
word "Through" [Durch]. Mother was frightfully upset by it for she was afraid it really meant
failed [durchgefallen], and that the other telegram had been only an idiotic joke. Dora and
I would never condescend to such horseplay. Father always says Oswald will sow all his wild
oats at the university, but he said to-day that he was not going to the university, but would
study mining, and then perhaps law.

July 29th. It's sickeningly dull here, I simply don't know what to do; I really can't read
and swing the whole day long, and Dora has become as dull as she used to be; that is, even
duller, for not only does she not quarrel, but she won't talk, that is she won't talk about
certain things. She is perfectly crazy about the baby of the young couple in the mezzanin;
he's 10 months old, and I can't see what she sees to please her in such a little pig; she's
always carrying him about and yesterday he made her all wet, I wished her joy of it. It made
her pretty sick, and I hope it will cure her infatuation.

Thank goodness to-morrow is my birthday, that will be a bit of a change. To-morrow we are going
to the Parapluie Berg, but I hope we shan't want our umbrellas. Father is coming back at 1
so that we can get away at 2 or half past. Hella has sent me to-day a lock-up box for letters,
etc.!!! of course filled with sweets and a tremendously long letter to tell me how she is getting
on in Gastein. But they are only going to stay a month because it is frantically expensive,
a roll 5 krenzer and a bottle of beer 1 crown. And the rolls are so small that one simply has
to eat 3 for breakfast and for afternoon tea. But it's awfully smart in the hotel, several
grooms; then there are masses of Americans and English and even a consul's family from Sydney
in Australia.--I spend most of the day playing with two dachshund puppies. They are called
Max and Moritz, though of course one of them is a bitch. That is really a word which one ought
not to write, for it means something, at least in its other meaning.

THIRD YEAR, AGE THIRTEEN TO FOURTEEN

THIRD YEAR

July 31st. Yesterday was my birthday, the thirteenth. Mother gave me a clock with a luminous
dial which I wanted for my night-table. Of course that is chiefly of use during the long winter
nights; embroidered collars; from Father, A Bad Boy's Diary, which one of the nurses lent Hella
when she was in hospital; it's such a delightfully funny book, but Father says it's stupid
because no boy could have written all that, a new racquet with a leather case, an awfully fine
one, a Sirk, and tennis balls from Dora. Correspondence cards, blue-grey with silver edge.
Grandfather and Grandmother sent a basket of cherries, red ones, and a basket of currants and
strawberries; the strawberries are only for me for my birthday. Aunt Dora sent three neckties
from Berlin for winter blouses. In the afternoon we went to the Par.-Berg. It would have been
awfully jolly if only Mother could have gone too or if Hella had been there.

August 1st. I got a letter from Ada to-day. She sends me many happy returns, for she thinks
it is on the 1st of August, and then comes the chief thing. She is frightfully unhappy. She
writes that she wants to escape from the cramping environment of her family, she simply can't
endure the stifling atmosphere of home. She has been to St. P. to see the actor for whom she
has such an admiration, he heard her recite something and said she had real dramatic talent;
he would be willing to train her for the stage, but only with her parents' consent. But of
course they will never give it. She writes that this has made her so nervous she feels like
crying or raving all day long, in fact she can't stand so dismal a life any longer. I am her
last hope. She would like me to come to stay with them, or still better if she could come and
stay with us for two or 3 weeks, then she would tell Mother about everything, and perhaps it
might be possible to arrange for her to live with us in Vienna for a year; in the autumn Herr
G., the actor, is coming to the Raimund Theatre and she could begin her training there. At
the end of her letter she says that it rests with my discretion and my tact to make her the
happiest creature in the world! I don't really know what I shall be able to do. Still, I've
made a beginning; I said I found it so frightfully dull--if only Hella were here, or at least
Ada, or even Marina. Then Mother said: But Marina is away in the country, in Carinthia, and
it's not likely that Ada will be able to come. Father, too, is awfully sorry that I find it
so dull, and so at supper he said: Would you really like Ada to come here? Certainly her age
makes her a better companion for you than Dora. You seemed to get on better together last year.
And then he said to Mother: Do you think it would bother you, Berta, to have Ada here? and
Mother said, "Not a bit; if Gretel would like it; it's really her turn now, Dora came with
me to Franzensbad, Oswald is having his walking tour, and only our little pet has not had anything
for herself; would you like it Gretel?" "Oh yes, Mother, I should like it awfully, I'll write
directly; it's no fun to me to carry about that little brat the way Dora does, and jolly as
the Bad Boy's Diary is I can't read it all day." So I am writing to Ada directly, just as if
I had thought of it and wanted her to come. I shall be so frightfully happy if it all comes
off and if Ada really becomes a great actress, like Wolter whom Mother is always talking of,
then I shall have done something towards helping Vienna to have a great actress and towards
making Ada the happiest creature in the world instead of the unhappiest.

August 2nd. In my letter I did not say anything to Ada about our having been ennobled, or as
Dora says re-ennobled, since the family has been noble for generations; she will find out about
it soon enough when she comes here. Mother keeps on saying: Don't put on such airs, especially
about a thing which we have not done anything particular to deserve. But that's not quite fair,
for unless Father had done such splendid service in connection with the laws or the constitution
or something two years ago, sometimes sitting up writing all night, perhaps he would never
have been re-ennobled. Besides, I really can't see why Father and Mother should have made such
a secret about it last winter. They might just as well have let us know. But I suppose Father
wanted to give us a real surprise. And he did too; Dora's face and the way Oswald cleared his
throat!! As far as I can make out no one seems to have noticed what sort of a face I was making.

August 3rd. I've found out now why Dora is so different, that is why she is again just as she
was some time ago, before last winter. During the 4 weeks in Fr. she has found a real friend
in Mother! To-day I turned the conversation to Viktor, and all she said at first was: Oh, I
don't correspond with him any more. And when I asked: "Have you had a quarrel, and whose fault
was it?" she said: "Oh, no, I just bade him farewell." "What do you mean, bade him farewell;
but he's not really going to America, is he?" And then she said: "My dear Rita, we had better
clear this matter up; I parted from him upon the well-justified wish of our dear Mother." I
must say that though I'm awfully, awfully fond of Mother, I really can't imagine having her
as a friend. How can one have a true friendship with one's own mother? Dora really can't have
the least idea what a true friendship means. There are some things it's impossible for a girl
to speak about to her mother, I could not possibly ask her: Do you know what, something has
happened, really means? Besides, I'm not quite sure if she does know, for when she was 13 or
15 or 16, people may have used quite different expressions, and the modern phrases very likely
did not then mean what they mean now. And what sort of a friendship is it when Mother says
to Dora: You must not go out now, the storm may break at any moment, and just the other evening:
Dora you must take your shawl with you. Friendship between mother and daughter is just as impossible
as friendship between father and son. For between friends there can be no orders and forbiddings,
and what's even more important is that one really can't talk about all the things that one
would like to talk of. All I said last night was: "Of course Mother has forbidden you to talk
to me about certain things; do you call that a friendship?" Then she said very gently: "No,
Rita, Mother has not forbidden me, but I recognise now that it was thoughtless of me to talk
to you about those things; one learns the seriousness of life quite soon enough." I burst out
laughing and said: "Is that what you call the seriousness of life? Have you really forgotten
how screamingly funny we found it all? It seemed to me that your memory has been affected by
the mud baths." She did not answer that. I do hope Ada will come. For I need her now just as
much as she needs me.

August 4th. Glory be to God, Ada's coming, but not directly because they begin their family
washing on the 5th and no one can be spared to come over with her till the 8th. I am so glad,
the only thing I'm sorry about is that she will sleep in the dressing-room and not Dora. But
Mother says that Dora and I must stay together and that Ada can leave the door into the dining-room
open so that she won't feel lonely.

August 7th. The days are so frightfully long. Dora is as mild and gentle as a nun, but she
talks to me just as little as a nun, and she's eternally with Mother. The two dachshunds have
been sold to some one in Neulengbach and so it is so horribly dull. Thank goodness Ada is coming
to-morrow. Father and I are going to meet her at the station at 6.

August 8th. Only time for a word or two. Ada is more than a head taller than I am; Father said:
"Hullo you longshanks, how you have shot up. I suppose I must treat you as a grown-up young
lady now? And Ada said: Please, Herr Oberlandesgerichtsrat; please treat me just as you used
to; I am so happy to have come to stay with you." And her mother said: "Yes, unfortunately
she is happy anywhere but at home; that is the way with young people to-day." Father helped
Ada out and said: "Frau Haslinger, the sap of life was rising in us once, but it's so long
ago that we have forgotten." And then Frau Dr. H. heaved a tremendous sigh as if she were suffocating,
and Ada took me by the arm and said under her breath: "Can you imagine what my life is like
now? Her mother is staying the night here, and she spent the whole evening lamenting about
everything under the sun" (that's what Ada told me just before we went to bed); but I did not
pay much attention to what Frau H. was doing, for I'm positively burning with curiosity as
to what Ada is going to talk to me about. To-morrow morning, directly after breakfast!

August 12th. For 3 days I've had no time to write, Ada and I have had such a lot to say to
one another. She can't and won't live any longer without art, she would rather die than give
up her plans. She still has to spend a year at a continuation school and must then either take
the French course for the state examination or else the needlecraft course. But she wants to
do all this in Vienna, so that in her spare time she can study for the stage under Herr G.
She says she is not in love with him any longer, that he is only a means to an end. She would
sacrifice anything to reach her goal. At first I did not understand what she meant by anything,
but she explained to me. She has read Bartsch's novel Elisabeth Kott, the book Mother has too,
and a lot of other novels about artistic life, and they all say the same thing, that a woman
cannot become a true artist until she has experienced a great love. There may be something
in it. For certainly a great love does make one different; I saw that clearly in Dora; when
she was madly in love with Viktor, and the way she's relapsed now!! She is learning Latin again,
to make up for lost time! Ada does not speak to her about her plans because Dora lacks true
insight! Only to-day she mentioned before Dora that whatever happened she wanted to come to
Vienna in the autumn so that she could often go to the theatre. And Dora said: You are making
a mistake, even people who live in Vienna don't go to the theatre often; for first of all one
has very little time to spare, and secondly one often can't get a seat; people who live in
the country often fancy that everything is much nicer in Vienna than it really is.

August 14th. Just a word, quickly. To-day when Ada was having a bath Mother said to us two:
"Girls, I've something to tell you; I don't want you to get a fright in the night. Ada's mother
told me that Ada is very nervous, and often walks in her sleep." "I say," said I, "that's frightfully
interesting, she must be moonstruck; I suppose it always happens when the moon is full." Then
Mother said: "Tell me, Gretel, how do you know about all these things? Has Ada talked to you
about them?" "No," said I, "but the Frankes had a maid who walked in her sleep and Berta Franke
told Hella and me about it." It has just struck me that Mother said: how do you know about
all these things? So it must have something to do with that. I wonder whether I dare ask Ada,
or whether she would be offended. I'm frightfully curious to see whether she will walk in her
sleep while she is staying here.

August 15th. Hella's answer came to-day to what I had written her about the friendship between
Mother and Dora. Of course she does not believe either that that is why Dora bade farewell
to Viktor, for it is no reason at all. Lizzi has never had any particular friendship with her
mother, and Hella could never dream of anything of the sort; she thinks I'm perfectly right,
one may be awfully fond of one's parents, but there simply can't be any question of a friendship.
She would not stand it if I were so changeable in my friendships. She thinks Dora can never
have had a true friendship, and that is why she has taken up with Mother now. The Bruckners
are coming back on the 19th because everything is so frightfully expensive in Gastein. After
that most likely they will go to stay with their uncle in Hungary, or else to Fieberbrunn in
Tyrol. For Hella's name day I have sent her A Bad Boy's Diary because she wanted to read it
again. Now we have both got it, and can write to one another which are the best bits so that
we can read them at the same time.

August 20th. Last night Ada really did walk in her sleep, probably we should never have noticed
it, but she began to recite Joan of Arc's speech from The Maid of Orleans, and Dora recognised
it at once and said: "I say, Rita, Ada really is walking in her sleep." We did not stir, and
she went into the dining-room, but the dining-room door was locked and the key taken away,
for it opens directly into the passage, and then she knocked up against Mother's sofa and that
woke her up. It was horrible. And then she lost her way and came into our room instead of going
into her own; but she was already awake and begged our pardon and said she'd been looking for
the W. Then she went back to her own room. Dora said we had better pretend that we had not
noticed it, for otherwise we should upset Ada. Not a bit of it, after breakfast she said: "I
suppose I gave you an awful fright last night; don't be vexed with me, I often get up and walk
about at night, I simply can't stay in bed. Mother says I always recite when I am walking like
that; do I? Did I say anything?" "Yes," I said, "you recited Joan of Arc's speech." "Did I
really," said she, "that is because they won't let me go on the stage; I'm certain I shall
go off my head; if I do, you will know the real reason at any rate." This sleep-walking is
certainly very interesting, but it makes me feel a little creepy towards Ada, and it's perfectly
true what Dora has always said: One never knows what Ada is really looking at. It would be
awful if she were really to go off her head. I've just remembered that her mother was once
in an asylum. I do hope she won't go mad while she is staying here.

August 21st. Mother heard it too the night before last. She is so glad that she had warned
us, and Dora says that if she had not known it beforehand she would probably have had an attack
of palpitation. Father said: "Ada is thoroughly histerical, she has inherited it from her mother."
In the autumn Lizzi is going to England to finish her education and will stay there a whole
year. Fond as I am of Ada and sorry as I am for her, she makes me feel uneasy now, and I'm
really glad that she's going home again on Tuesday. She told me something terrible to-day:
Alexander, he is the actor, has venereal disease, because he was once an officer in the army;
she says that all officers have venereal disease, as a matter of course. At first I did not
want to show that I did not understand exactly what she meant, but then I asked her and Ada
told me that what was really amiss was that that part of the body either gets continually smaller
and smaller and is quite eaten away, or else gets continually larger because it is so frightfully
swollen; the last kind is much better than the other, for then an operation can help; a retired
colonel who lives in H. was operated upon in Vienna for this; but it did not cure him. There
is only one real cure for a man with a venereal disease, that a young girl should give herself
to a man suffering from it! (Mad. often said that too), then she gets the disease and he is
cured. That made Ada understand that she did not really love A., but only wanted him to train
her; for she could never have done that for him, and she did not know how she could propose
that to him even if she had been willing to. Besides, it is generally the man concerned who
asks it of the girl. And when I said: "But just imagine, what would you do if you got a baby
that way," and she said: "That does not come into the question, for when a man has venereal
disease it is impossible to have a child by him. But after all, only a woman who has had a
baby can become a true artist." Franke, who has a cousin on the stage said something of the
same sort to Hella and me; but we thought, Franke's cousin is only in the Wiener Theatre, and
that might be true there; but it may be quite different in the Burg Theatre and in the Opera
and even in the People's Theatre. I told Ada about this, and she said: Oh, well, I'm only a
girl from the provinces, but I have known for ages that every actress has a child.

23rd. Ada really is a born artist, to-day she read us a passage from a splendid novel, but
oh, how wonderfully, even Dora said: "Ada, you are really phenominal!" Then she flung the book
away and wept and sobbed frightfully and said: "My parents are sinning against their own flesh
and blood; but they will rue it. Do you remember what the old gypsy woman foretold of me last
year: 'A great but short career after many difficult struggles; and my line of life is broken!'
That will all happen as predicted, and my mother can recite that lovely poem of Freiligrath's
or Anastasius Grun's, or whosever it is 'Love as long as thou canst, love as long as thou mayst.
The hour draws on, the hour draws on, when thou shalt stand beside the grave and make thy moan.'"
Then Ada recited the whole poem, and when I went to bed I kept on thinking of it and could
not go to sleep.

August 24th. To-day I ventured to ask Ada about the sleep-walking, and she said that it was
really so, when she walked in her sleep it was always at that time and when the moon is full.
The first time, it was last year, she did it on purpose in order to frighten her mother, when
her mother had first told her she would not be allowed to go on the stage. It does not seem
to me a very clever idea, or that she is likely to gain anything by it. The day after to-morrow
someone is coming to fetch her home, and for that reason she was crying all the morning.

August 25th. Hella was here to-day with her mother and Lizzi. Hella had a splendid time in
Gastein. She wanted to have a private talk with me, to tell me something important. That made
it rather inconvenient that Ada was still there. Hella never gets on with Ada, and she says
too that one never really knows what she is looking at, she always looks right through one.
We could not get a single minute alone together for a talk. I do hope Hella will be able to
come over once more before she goes to Hungary. Last week they went to Fieberbrunn in Tyrol
because an old friend of her mother's from Berlin is staying there.

August 26th. Ada went home to-day, her father came to fetch her. He says she has a screw loose,
because she wants to go on the stage.

August 28th. Hella came over to-day; she was alone and I met her at the steam tram. At first
she did not want to tell me what the important thing was because it was not flattering to me,
but at last she got it out. The Warths were in Gastein, and since Hella knows Lisel because
they used to go to gym. together, they had a talk, and that cheeky Robert said: Is your friend
still such a baby as she was that time in er . . . er . . ., and then he pretended he could
not remember where it was; and he spoke of that time as if it had been 10 years ago. But the
most impudent thing of all was this; he said that I had not wanted to call him Bob, because
that always made me think of a certain part of the body; I never said anything of the kind,
but only that I thought Bob silly and vulgar, and then he said (it was before we got intimate):
"Indeed, Fraulein Grete, I really prefer that you should use my full name." I remember it as
well as if it had happened this morning, and I know exactly where he said it, on the way to
the Red Cross. Hella took him up sharply: That may be all quite true, we have never discussed
such trifles, and, at that time we were "all, every one of us, still nothing but children."
Of course she meant to include ----. I won't even write his name. Another thing that made me
frightfully angry is that he said: I dare say your friend is more like you now, but at that
time she was still quite undeveloped. Hella answered him curtly: "That's not the sort of phrase
that it's seemly to use to a young lady," and she would not speak to him any more. I never
heard of such a thing, what business is it of his whether I am developed or not! Hella thinks
that I was not quite particular enough in my choice of companions. She says that Bob is still
nothing but a Bub [young cub]. That suits him perfectly, Bob--Bub; now we shall never call
him anything but Bub; that is if we ever speak of him at all. When we don't like some one we
shall call him simply Bob, or better still B., for we really find it disagreeable to say Bob.

August 31st. The holidays are so dull this year, Hella has gone to Hungary, and I hardly ever
talk to Dora, at least about anything interesting. Ada's letters are full of nothing but my
promises about Vienna. It's really too absurd, I never promised anything, I merely said I would
speak to Mother about it when I had a chance. I have done so already, but Mother said: There
can be no question of anything of the kind.

September 1st. Hullo, Hurrah! To-morrow Hella's father is going to take me to K-- M--in Hungary
to stay with Hella. I am so awfully delighted. Hella is an angel. When she was ill last Christmas
her father said: She can ask for anything she likes. But she did not think of anything in particular,
and had her Christmas wishes anyhow, so she saved up this wish. And after she had been here
she wrote to her father in Cracow, where he is at manoeuvres, saying that if he would like
to grant her her chief wish, then, when he came back to Vienna, he was to take me with him
to K-- M--; this was really the greatest wish she had ever had in her life! So Colonel Bruckner
called at Father's office to-day and showed him Hella's letter. To-morrow at 3 I must be at
the State Railway terminus. Unfortunately that's a horrid railway. The Western Railway is much
nicer, and I like the Southern Railway better still.

September 2nd. I am awfully excited; I'm going to Vienna alone and I have to change at Liesing,
I do hope I shall get into the right train. I got a letter from Hella first thing this morning,
in which she wrote: "Perhaps we shall be together again in a few days." That's all she said
about that; I suppose she did not know yet whether I was really coming. Mother will have to
send my white blouses after me, because all but one are dirty. I'm going to wear my coat and
skirt and the pink blouse. I'm going to take twenty pages for my diary, that will be enough;
for I'm going to write whatever happens, in the mornings I expect, because in the holidays
I'm sure Hella will never get up before 9; on Sundays in Vienna she would always like to lie
in bed late, but her father won't let her.

But whatever happens I won't learn to ride, for it must be awful to tumble off before a strange
man. It was different for Hella, for Jeno, Lajos, and Erno are her cousins, and one of them
always rode close beside her with his arm round her waist: but that would not quite do in my case.

September 6th. Oh it is so glorious here. I like Jeno best, he goes about with me everywhere
and shows me everything; Hella is fondest of Lajos and of Erno next. But Erno has still a great
deal to learn, for he was nearly flunked in his exam. Next year Lajos will be a lieutenant,
and this autumn Jeno is going to the military academy, Erno has a slight limp, nothing bad,
but he can't go into the army; he is going to be a civil engineer, not here, he is to go to
America some day.

I have time to write to-day, for all 4 of them have gone to S. on their cycles and I have never
learned.

It was lovely on the journey! It's so splendid to travel with an officer, and still more when
he is a colonel. All the stationmasters saluted him and the guards could not do enough to show
their respect. Of course everyone thought I was his daughter, for he has always said "Du" to
me since I was quite a little girl. But to Ada Father always says "Sie." We left the train
at Forgacs or Farkas, or whatever it is called, and Hella's father hired a carriage and it
took us 2 hours to drive to K-- M--. He was awfully jolly. We had our supper in F., though
it was only half past 6. It was a joke to see all the waiters tumbling over each other to serve
him. It s just the same with Father, except that the stationmasters don't all salute. Father
looks frightfully distinguished too, but he is not in uniform.

Here is something awfully interesting: Herr von Kraics came yesterday from Radufalva, his best
friend left him the Radufalva estate out of gratitude, because 8 years ago he gave up his fiancee
with whom the friend was in love. It's true, Colonel Bruckner says that K. is a wretched milksop;
but I don't think so at all; he has such fiery eyes, and looks a real Hungarian nobleman. Hella
says that he used to run himself frantically into debt, because every six months he had an
intimacy with some new woman; and all the presents he gave reduced him almost to beggary. Still,
it's difficult to believe that, for however fond a woman may be of flowers and sweets, one
does not quite see why that should reduce anyone to beggary. Before we went to sleep last night
Hella told me that Lajos had already been "infected" more or less; she says there is not an
officer who has not got venereal disease and that is really what makes them so frightfully
interesting. Then I told her what Ada had told me about the actor in St. P. But Hella said:
I doubt if that's all true; of course it is more likely since he was an actor, and especially
since he was in the army at one time, but generally speaking civilians are wonderfully healthy!!!
And she could not stand that in her husband. Every officer has lived frantically; that's a
polite phrase for having had venereal disease, and she would never marry a man who had not
lived. Most girls, especially when they get a little older; want the very opposite! and then
it suddenly occurred to me that that was probably the real reason why Dora bade farewell to
Lieutenant R., and not the friendship with Mother; it is really awfully funny, and no one would
have thought it of her. Hella's father thinks me charming; he is really awfully nice. Hella's
uncle hardly ever says anything, and when he does speak he is difficult to understand; Hella's
father says that his sister-in-law wears the breeches. That would never do for me; the man
must be the master. "But not too much so" says Hella. She always gets cross when her father
says that about wearing breeches. I got an awful start yesterday; we went out on the veranda
because we heard the boys talking, and found Hella's great uncle lying there on an invalid
couch. She told me about him once, that he's quite off his head, not really paralysed but only
pretends to be. Hella is terribly afraid of him, because long ago, when she was only 9 or 10
years old, he wanted to give her a thrashing. But her uncle came in, and then he let her go.
She says he was only humbugging, but she is awfully afraid of him all the same. He keeps his
room, and he has a male attendant, because no nurse can manage him. He ought really to be in
an asylum but there is no high class asylum in Hungary.

September 9th. There was a frightful rumpus this morning; the great uncle, the people here
call him "kutya mog" or however they spell it, and it means mad dog, well, the great uncle
spied in on us. He can walk with a stick, our room is on the ground floor, and he came and
planted himself in front of the window when Hella was washing and I was just getting out of
bed. Then Hella's father came and made a tremendous row and the uncle swore horribly in Hungarian.
Afterwards Hella said to me: "I say, do you know that we have the same name day?" And when
I said: "What do you mean, it seems to me you must have gone dotty this morning," she laughed
like anything and said: "Don't you see, December 27th, Holy Innocents' Day!" Oh it did tickle
me. She knew that date although she's a Protestant because December 27th is Marina's birthday,
and in our letters we used to speak of that deceitful cat as "The Innocent."

The three boys and I have begun to use "Du" to one another, at supper yesterday Hella's father
said to Erno: "You seem frightfully ceremonious still, can't you make up your minds to drop
the 'Sie?'" So we clinked glasses, and afterwards when Jeno and I were standing at the window
admiring the moon, he said: "You Margot, that was not a real pledge of good-fellowship, we
must kiss one another for that; hurry up, before anyone comes," and before I could say No he
had given me a kiss. After all it was all right as it was Jeno, but it would not have done
with Lajos, for it would have been horrid because of Hella, or Ilonka as they call her here.

Hella has just told me that they saw us kissing one another, and Lajos said: "Look Ilonka,
they are setting us a good example." We are so awfully happy here. It's such a pity that on
the 16th Jeno and Lajos have got to leave for the Academy, where Jeno is to enter and Lajos
is in his third year: Erno, the least interesting of the three, is staying till October. But
that is always the way of life, beautiful things pass and the dull ones remain. We go out boating
every day, yesterday and to-day by moonlight. The boys make the boat rock so frightfully that
we are always terrified that it will upset. And then they say: "You have your fate in your
own hands; buy your freedom and you will be as safe as in Abraham's bosom."

September 12th. The great uncle hates us since what happened the other day; whenever he sees
us he threatens us with his stick, and though we are not really afraid, because he can't do
anything to us, still it's rather creepy. One thinks of all sorts of things, stories and sagas
one has read. That is the only thing I don't quite like here. But we are leaving on the 18th.
Of course Lajos and Jeno will often come to see the Bruckners; I'm awfully glad. I don't know
why, I always fancied that they could only speak Magyar; but that is not so at all, though
they always speak it at home when they are alone. Hella told me to-day for the first time that
all the flowers on the table by her bed one Sunday in hospital had been sent by Lajos; and
she did not wish to tell me at that time because he wished her to keep it a secret. This has
made me rather angry, for I see that I have been much franker with her than she has been with me.

September 16th. The boys left to-day, and we stayed up till midnight last night. We had been
to N-- K--, I don't know how to spell these Hungarian names, and we did not get back till half
past 11. It was lovely. But it seems all the sadder to-day, especially as it is raining as
well. It's the first time it's rained since I came. Partings are horrid, especially for the
ones left behind; the others are going to new scenes anyhow. But for the people left behind
everything is hatefully dull and quiet. In the afternoon Hella and I went into Jeno's and Lajos'
room, it had not been tidied up yet and was in a frightful mess. Then Hella suddenly began
sobbing violently, and she flung herself on Lajos' bed and kissed the pillow. That is how she
loves him! I'm sure that is the way Mad. loves the lieutenant, but Dora is simply incapable
of such love, and then she can talk of her true and intimate friendship with Mother. Hella
says she has always been in love with Lajos, but that her eyes were first opened when she saw
Jeno and me going about together and talking to one another. Now she will love Lajos for evermore.
Next year they will probably get engaged, she can't be engaged till she is 14 for her parents
would not allow it. It is for her sake that he is going into the Hussars because she likes
the Hussars best. They all live frightfully hard, and are tremendously smart.

September 21st. Since Saturday we have been back In Vienna, and Father, Mother, and Dora came
back from Rodaun on Thursday. Dora really is too funny; since Ada stayed with us and walked
in her sleep Dora is afraid she has been infected. She does not seem to know what the word
really means! And while I was away she slept with Mother, and Father slept in our room, because
she was afraid to sleep alone. Of course no one takes to walking in their sleep simply from
sleeping alone, but that was only a pretext; Dora has never been very courageous, in fact she
is rather a coward, and she was simply afraid to sleep alone. If Father had been afraid too,
I suppose I should have had to come back post-haste, and if I had been afraid to travel alone,
and there had been no one to come with me, that would have been a pretty state of affairs.
I told them so. Father laughed like anything at my "combinations," and Dora got in a frightful
wax. She is just as stupid and conceited as she was before she fell in love. So Hella is right
when she says: Love enobles [veredelt]. Erno made a rotten joke about that when he heard Hella
say it once. He said: "You've made a slip of the tongue, you meant to say: Love makes fools
of people [vereselt]." Of course that's because he's not in love with anyone.

September 22nd. School began again to-day. Frau Doktor M. is perfectly fascinating, she looks
splendid and she said the same to both of us. Thank goodness she's the head of our class again.
In French we have a new mistress Frau Doktor Dunker, she is perfectly hideous, covered with
pimples, a thing I simply can't stand in any one; Hella says we must be careful never to let
her handle our books; if she does we might catch them. In Maths and Physics we have another
new mistress, she is a Doktor too, and she speaks so fast that none of us can understand her;
but she looks frightfully clever, although she is very small. We call her "Nutling" because
she has such a tiny little head and such lovely light-brown eyes. Otherwise the staff is the
same as last year, and there are a few new girls and some have left, but only ones we did not
know intimately. This is Franke's last year at the Lyz., she will be 16 in April and has a
splendid figure. Her worst enemy must admit that. Dora is having English lessons from the matron,
and she is awfully pleased about it, for she is one of her favourites and it will help her
too in her matriculation.

September 25th. Yesterday and the day before Mother was so ill that the doctor had to be sent
for at half past 10 at night. Thank goodness she is better now. But on such days I simply can't
write a word in my diary; I feel as if I oughtn't to. And the days seem everlasting, for nobody
talks much, and it's awful at mealtimes. Mother was up again to-day, lying on the sofa.

September 29th. I've had such an awful toothache since the day before yesterday. Dora says
it's only an ache for a gold filling like Frau Doktor M.'s. Of course that's absurd; for first
of all, surely I ought to know whether my own tooth hurts or not, and secondly the dentist
says that the tooth really is decayed. I have to go every other day and I can't say I enjoy
it. At the same time, this year we have such a frightful lot to learn at school. The Nutling
is really very nice, if one could only understand better what she says, but she talks at such
a rate that in the Fifth, where she teaches too, they call her Waterfall. Nobody has ever given
Frau Doktor M. a nickname, not even an endearing one. The only one that could possibly be given
to her is Angel, and that could not be a real name, it's quite unmeaning. In the drawing class
we are going to draw from still life, and, best of all, animal studies too, I am so delighted.

October 4th. Goodness, to-day when we were coming home from the Imperial Festival, we met Viktor
in M. Street, but unfortunately he did not see us. He was in full-dress uniform and was walking
with 3 other officers whom neither I nor Hella know. We were frightfully angry because he did
not recognise us; Hella thinks it can only be because we were both wearing our big new autumn
hats, which shade our faces very much.

October 11th. There was a frightful row in the drawing lesson to-day. Borovsky had written
a note to one of her friends: "The little Jewess, F. (that means the Nutling) is newly imported
from Scandalavia with her horsehair pate with or without inhabitants." Something of that sort
was what she had written and as she was throwing it across to Fellner, Fraulein Scholl turned
round at that very moment and seized the note. "Who is F.?", she asked, but no one answered.
That made her furious and she put the note in her pocket. At 1 o'clock, when the lesson was
over, Borovsky went up to her and asked her for the note. Then she asked once more: "Who is
F.?" And Fellner, thinking I suppose that she would help Borovsky out, said: "She forgot to
write Frau Doktor Fuchs." Then the row began. I can't write it all down, it would take too
long; of course Borovsky will be expelled. She cried like anything and begged and prayed, and
said she did not mean it, but Fraulein Scholl says she is going to give the letter to the head.

October 12th. Continuation; the head is laid up with a chill, so Frl. Scholl gave the note
to Frau Doktor M.; that was both good and bad. Good because Borovsky will perhaps be able to
stay after all, and bad because Frau Doktor M. was frightfully angry. She gave us a fine lecture
about True Good Manners, simply splendid. I was so glad that I was not mixed up in the business,
for she did give Borovsky and Fellner a rating. It's probably true, then, that her own fiance
is a Jew. Its horrible that she above all should be going to have a cruel husband; at least
if all that Resi told us is true; and I expect there is some truth in it. We are frightfully
curious to know whether the Nutling has heard anything about it and if so what she will do.

October 13th. I don't think the Nutling can have heard anything for she seemed just as usual;
but Hella thinks and so do I that she would not show anything even if Frl. Scholl had told
her; anyhow it was horridly vulgar; one is not likely to pass it on to the person concerned.
Why we think she does not know anything is that neither Borovsky nor Fellner were called up.

October 14th. To-day the needlewoman brought Dora's handkerchiefs with her monogram and the
coronet, lovely; I want some like them for Christmas. And for Mother she has embroidered six
pillow-cases, these have a coronet too; by degrees we shall have the coronet upon everything.
By the way, here is something I'd forgotten to write: In one of the first days of term Father
gave each of us one of his new visiting cards with the new title, I was to give mine to Frau
Doktor M. and Dora hers to Frau Prof. Kreidl, to have the names properly entered in the class
lists. Frau Prof. Kreidl did not say anything, but Frau Doktor M. was awfully sweet. She said:
"Well, Lainer, I suppose you are greatly pleased at this rise in rank?" And I said: "Oh yes,
I'm awfully delighted, but only inside," then she said: That's right; "Religion, name, and
money do not make the man." Was not that charming! I write the v before my name awfully small;
but anyone who knows can see it. What a shame that she is not noble! She would be worthy of it!!

October 15th. Oswald has gone to Leoben to-day, he is to study mining, but against Father's
will. But Father says that no one must be forced into a profession, for if he is he will always
say throughout life that he only became this or that on compulsion. The other evening Dora
said that Oswald had only chosen mining in order to get away from home; if he were to study
law or agricultural chemistry he could not get away from Vienna, and that is the chief thing
to him. Besides, he is a bit of a humbug; for when he came home from Graz after matriculation
he said in so many words: "How delightful to have one's legs under one's own table again and
to breathe the family atmosphere." Dora promptly said to him: "Hm, you don't seem to care so
very much about home, for always when you come home for the holidays the first thing you do
is to make plans for getting away." For she is annoyed too that Oswald can travel about wherever
he likes. And yet he goes on talking about being "subjected to intolerable supervision"!! What
about us? He can stay out until 10 at night and never comes to afternoon tea, and in fact does
just what he likes. If I go to supper with Hella and am just ever so little late, there's a
fine row. As for the lectures poor Dora had to endure when Viktor was waiting for her, I shall
never forget them. Of course she denies it all now, but I was present at some of them so I
know; otherwise he would not have called me "the Guardian Angel." She behaves now as if she
had forgotten all about that, so I often remind her of it on purpose when we are alone together.
The other day she said: "I do beg you, Grete (not Rita), don't speak any more of that matter;
I have buried the affair for ever." And when I said: "Buried, what do you mean? A true love
can't simply be buried like that," she said: "It was not a true love, and that's all there
is to say about it."

