"It's out of the question," said McCrae. "Besides, it's not so necessary as you think. What
with the bad time our train made, an' the good time the stock-train made, an' the fact that
they started ahead of us, they're in the yards now. That's a piece of luck, to start with.
'S nothing unusual for settlers to be held Up here two an' three weeks waiting for their freight,
an' all the time bills piling up an' the cash running down in a way that knocks holes in their
pockets."

"But I can't put my wife in a stock-car!" protested Harris.

"There's worse places," McCrae answered, calmly worrying a considerable section from a plug
of black chewing tobacco. "Worse places, Ah should say. Ah've seen times when a good warm stock-car
would have passed for heaven. But that ain't what Ah have in mind. We'll all turn in an' get
the stock unloaded, hitch up horses, pack a load, an' get away. Morrison's hired man'll drive
his team, an' Tom'll stay here himself an' look after the rest of the stuff. Ah've been making
a canvass, an' Ah find we have six or seven families who can be ready to pull out this afternoon.
An soon as we get into settled country, perhaps we can get accommodation, such as it is, along
the way. But my team will go along, with a good tent an' some cooking outfit. Everyone has
bedding, so we're all right for that. Now, if all hustle we can be started by four o'clock,
an' out ten or twelve miles before we pitch camp. That's far enough for the horses the first
day, anyway. How does it suit you?"

"What do you say, Mr. Morrison?"

"I think Aleck's plan is best. I've my wife and the two girls, and there's no roof for their
heads here. I can find a place for myself, but I've got to get them started. Ned is a trusty
man; he will drive my team. It suits me."

"But after we get there?" said Harris, "For my part, I don't know where I'm going. Even with
Aleck's help it will take some time to look up my land and build a place to live in. Mind you,"
he said, as if forestalling a question in their minds, "I'm mightily obliged for the kindness
of your offer, and it isn't myself I'm thinking about."

"Hoots, man!" said Morrison. "We ken who you're thinkin' about, right well. And a poor man
ye'd be if ye didn't, for a bonnier lass never came out of Canada, and that's saying somethin'.
But she'll be all right out there, and a deal better than if you left her here. There's not
many settlers with houses in the country yet, Aleck tells me, but there's a few, and it's wonderful
the e-las-ticity of a shanty on the prairie."

"Tom's right," said McCrae. "We haven't many of the conveniences of civilization out there
yet, but we haven't the narrowness or vices either, an' your wife'll be both welcome an' safe
in any farmer's home. Now, if it's all settled," continued McCrae, who had the leader's knack
of suppressing indecision at the psychological moment, "we'll all turn in with unloading of
the stock." Harris ran to tell his wife that they were to join a party for "the front" that
very afternoon. She received the news joyously. Her only fear had been that she would be left
behind during the weeks in which her husband made his exploration of the country.

In a few minutes all hands, both men and women, were busy at the cars. The horses, stiff and
sore after their long journey, stalked rheumatically down the gangway. Feeling solid ground
beneath their feet, they shook their heads vigorously, as though to rid them of the rumble
of the cars, and presently were rolling and stretching in the warm sun. Dogs limped with muddy
paws and boisterous affection upon masters and mistresses; cows lowed, roosters crowed, and
pigs emitted little grunts, of that supreme happiness peculiar to their race. Many hands made
the work light, and by mid-afternoon six sleighs were loaded for the journey. All the women
and children were to go with the party; Morrison and one or two men would remain in Emerson,
complete the unloading, and take charge of the effects until the teams should return from their
long journey. McCrae, on account of his knowledge of the town and of the needs of the journey
was chosen to secure the supplies. His team, which had wintered at Emerson, was to take the
lead, and in his sleigh were a large tent, some cooking equipment, and an assortment of eatables,
consisting mainly of dried meat, lard, beans, molasses, bread, flour, oatmeal, and tea. McCrae
provided his team and equipment without charge; the cost of the provisions was reckoned up
and divided among the immigrants in their various proportions to the whole party.

Each settler's sleigh carried that which seemed most indispensable. First came the settler's
family, which, large or small, was crowded into the deep box. McCrae made them pack hay in
the bottom of the sleigh-boxes, and over this were laid robes and blankets, on which the immigrants
sat, as thickly as they could be placed. More robes and blankets were laid on top, and sacks
stuffed very full of hay served the double purpose of cushioning their backs and conveying
fodder for the animals. Such space as remained was devoted to grain for the horses, bundles
of clothing and boxes of dishes, kitchen utensils, and family effects. In one of the sleighs
a pig was quartered, and in another was a crate of hens which poked their heads stupidly through
the cracks, blinking at the bright light. Behind the sleighs were tethered the cattle.

Morrison came up to Harris's sleigh, and gave it an approving inspection.

"You will all be fine," he said, "and a great deal better than wearyin' about here. Besides,
you're just as well to be away," he added, in a somewhat lower voice. "McCrae tells me if this
sun keeps up the roads will be gone before we know it, and that means a delay of two or three
weeks. There's been a tremendous snow this winter, and a steady thaw, what with these north-runnin'
rivers, means floods on the low-lyin' lands, and perhaps in the town itself, McCrae tells me
he's none too sure about the bridge."

At this moment McCrae himself joined the group. "There's only two in your party, Harris," he
said, "an' while Ah don't want to interrupt your honeymoon, there's another passenger to be
taken care of. Dr. Blain is going with us, and Ah'm going to put him in your charge. He's a
bit peculiar, but Ah don't think he'll give you any trouble. It's just a case of being too
much of a good fellow. One thing Ah know--he's a doctor. Saw him last fall on a scarlet fever
job. Settler's sod shack, twenty miles from nowhere. Three children down, mother down, father
frantic. Well, Ah now that Blain camped right there in the thick of it; doctored, nursed, cooked,
kep' house--did everything. An' they're all of 'em alive an' well to-day, or were when last
Ah saw them. So he's worth more'n a speaking acquaintance, Harris; you may know that better
some day. Ah'm going up town for him now; you can shift your stuff a little an' make room."

The whole party were ready for the road and waiting before McCrae appeared again. When he came
a companion staggered somewhat uncertainly by his side.

"I'm aw'right, McCrae," he was saying. "I'm aw' right. Shay, whash thish? Shildren v Ishrul?"

"Come now, Doctor, straighten up. Ah want to introduce you."

"Introdush me? Thash right. Make me 'cquainted wish the ladish. How juhdo, Princhessh?" he
said, stopping and gesticulating before an imaginary figure. "Thish is Dr. Blain, late of--late
of--wash that, McCrae? Oh, very good. I'm awl right."

Half leading and half pulling, McCrae at last brought the doctor to Harris's sleigh. "Sorry
he's in this shape," he whispered. "He'll likely go to sleep, an' be all right when he wakes
up. Ah can't take him in my sleigh, an' Ah feel sure you can handle him."

"I'll do the best I can," said Harris, though he was little pleased with the prospect.

"Straighten up, Doctor," said McCrae, giving him a good poke in the ribs. "This is Mr. Harris,
who you will travel with--Jack Harris. An' Mrs. Harris."

The doctor had glanced only casually at Harris, but at the mention of the woman's name he straightened
up and stood alone.

"Glad to meet you, madam," he said. "And it's only proper that the pleasure should be all mine."
There was a little bitterness in his voice that did not escape her ear.

"But indeed I am glad to meet you," she answered. "Mr. McCrae has been telling us something
of your work among the settlers. We are very fortunate to have you with us."

He shot a keen look into her face. She returned his gaze frankly, and he found sarcasm neither
in her eyes nor her voice.

"Help me in, McCrae," he said. "I'm a bit unsteady...There now, my bag. Don't move, Mrs. Harris...I
think we are quite ready now, are we not?"

"Most remarkable man," whispered McCrae to Harris. "Wonderful how he can pull himself together."

McCrae hurried to his own sleigh, called a cheery "All ready!" and the party at once proceeded
to get under way. This was not accomplished without difficulty. The cattle showed no disposition
to follow the sleighs, but hung back, pulling on their ropes with amazing strength. One or
two, in an excess of stubbornness, sat down in the snow and had to be dragged bodily. The settlers
had three or four dogs along, but it was not considered safe to let them get at the cattle,
lest the frightened animals should break their ropes and occasion further delay. The situation
was only relieved by a number of men following behind, prodding vigorously and twisting the
tails of the most recalcitrant. Presently the cows began to swing along, and, finding that
no harm befell them, they soon settled into a slow but steady gait, and gave no more trouble
until they began to tire with their travel.

The horses, too, had their own difficulties. Jaded and nervous with their long trip in the
cars, and strange to the air and surroundings, they fidgeted and fretted, and soon the sweat-line
was creeping up their backs. The sleigh trails stood high over the level of the surrounding
prairie, and the horses were continually slipping off. The snow packed in hard balls under
their feet, and at intervals the drivers were obliged to get out and clear it away. The March
sun, which had shone down with such fierce heat during the middle of the day, now swung far
to the westward, facing the travellers over an ocean of snow stretching away into the unknown.
The day grew colder; women and children drew blankets tighter about them, and huddled lower
in the sleighs to escape a sharp wind that slipped silently down from the north, carrying a
ground-drift of icy particles in its breath.

Harris's thoughts were on his team, on the two cows trudging behind, and on the multiplicity
of arrangements which his new life would present for decision and settlement. But his wife
gazed silently out over the ocean of snow. The rays of the sun fell gratefully on her cheeks,
pale and somewhat wan with her long journey. But the sun went down, and the western sky, cloudless
and measureless, faded from gold to copper, and from copper to silver, and from silver to lead.
Turning uncomfortably in her crowded seat the girl could see, far beyond the last of the teams,
the road over which they had travelled, stretching away until it lost itself, a point in the
gathering darkness. To the west it lost itself over the shoulder of the prairie... The men
had ceased to shout to each other; the cattle plodded uncomplainingly; silently they moved
in the midst of a silence expanding into the infinite. It was her first sight of the prairie,
and a strange mixture of emotions, of awe, and loneliness, and a certain indifference to personal
consequences, welled up within her. Once or twice she thought of home--a home so far away that
it might have been in another planet. But she would not let her mind dwell on it for long.
She was going to be brave. She had talked with the other women on the train and in the town.
They were women from Ontario farms, some of them well into middle life, women who had known
the drudge of unremitting toil since childhood. Their speech was faulty; their manners would
not have passed muster amid her old associations; but their quiet optimism was unbounded, their
courage was an inspiration. She too would be brave! For the sake of the brave man who sat at
her side, guiding his team in the deepening darkness; for the sake of the new home that they
two should build somewhere over the horizon; for the sake of the civilization that was to be
planted, of the nation that must arise, of the manhood and womanhood of to-morrow--she would
be brave. Deep in her heart she swore she would be brave, even while a recreant tear stole
forth unbidden and froze into a little pearl of pathos on her cheek.

A bright star shone down from the west; one by one they appeared in the heavens...It grew colder.
The snow no longer caked on the horses' feet; the sleigh-runners creaked and whined uncannily.

Suddenly a strange sound came down on the north wind--a sound that made the girl who had just
been vowing to be brave nestle still closer to the big man at her side, and his arm fell protectingly
about her. It was a succession of sharp barks like those of a dog, but the barks presently
ran together in a long, doleful howl that rose in a high crescendo on the night air, and then
slowly died away into a minor note that seemed to echo back and forth across the plain. As
it died out in one point of the compass it was taken up in another, until the little party
wending its way in the darkness seemed altogether surrounded by it.

"What is it?" whispered the girl. "What is it, Jack? Do you know?"

"I don't know," said the man. "It sounds like--wolves."

"Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Harris," said a quiet voice. Looking around they found the doctor sitting
up in the sleigh. He had fallen asleep as soon as the journey started, and they had almost
forgotten his presence.

"Don't be alarmed," he repeated. "Their howl is the only terrifying thing about them. Prairie
wolves are very different from their cousins of the woods. They fill the night air with their
howling, but they are cowardly brutes and would rather run than fight."

"I suppose you have had some strange experiences with animals of the prairies," said the girl,
with a brave effort to appear at ease, but before the doctor could answer the team came to
a sudden stop. The sleigh in front was obstructing the road, and the party closed up in solid
formation.

"Camp Number One," called Aleck McCrae, from the head sleigh. "The horses and cattle are tired,
an'--"

"And the captain is hungry," put in Ned Beacon. "Isn't that right?"

"Well, Ah am nursing a young appetite," admitted Aleck, exhibiting the slack of his belt. "Now,
run these sleighs up in two rows," and Aleck indicated where he wanted them placed. "It's hard
on the horses an' cattle, after the warm cars, but they'll stand it tonight if they're well
blanketed. To-morrow night we'll be among the Mennonites, with a chance of getting stable room."

Under Aleck's direction the sleighs were run up in two rows, about twenty feet apart, facing
the north. Two sleighs were then run across the opening at the north end, so that altogether
they formed a three-sided court. Men with shovels quickly cleared the snow from the northerly
portion of the court, and there the tent was pitched. On the south side of the tent, where
they were sheltered from the north wind, the horses and cattle were lined up as closely as
they could be crowded. Horse blankets, buffalo robes, rag carpets, and even family bedding,
were tied about the animals. The horses were supplied with hay and oats and the cattle with
hay alone, and after eating they lay down for the night, and were soon blowing and heaving
in a warm fog of comfort.

Meanwhile inside the tent was a scene of great activity. The ground was covered with blankets,
robes, and bedding. A lantern from the centre pole sent wedge-shaped shadows darting back and
forth; the camp stove was set up, and a fire from wood which McCrae had brought along was soon
crackling in it. Pots and pans were produced; women eager to be of service swarmed about the
stove, and children, free at last of their muffling wraps, romped in high-laughtered glee among
the robes or danced back and forward with the swinging shadows.

"Now this won't do at all," said McCrae, returning from an inspection of affairs outside. "Too
many cooks, you know. Ah want one woman here. Everybody else sit down."

The captain's word was recognized as law. He selected an able-looking settler's wife as assistant
cook, while the others, men, women, and children, sitting down, seemed to fill the tent to
the limit of its capacity.

Savoury smells soon were coming from hot frying-pans, as sliced ham, with bread and gravy,
was served up in tin plates and passed about the tent. Everybody--married men and women, maidens
and young men, girls, boys, and little children--was ravenously hungry, and for a few minutes
little could be heard but the plying of the viands. But as the first edge of hunger became
dulled the edge of wit sharpened, and laughter and banter rollicked back and forward through
the tent. The doctor, now quite sober, took a census, and found the total population to be
twenty-eight. These he classified as twelve married, eight eligible, seven children, and himself,
for whom he found no classification.

"You have a head for figures, Harris, I think," he said. "How much space can be allotted to each?"

Harris found that the tent was twelve by eighteen feet, and that about eight feet of floor
space would be available for each person, if they moved the stove out.

"The space is sufficient, but the ventilation isn't," said the doctor, as he set about opening
ventilator flaps. "If I am to be responsible for your health there are just two rules to follow.
Do whatever Aleck McCrae tells you, and don't be afraid of fresh air, even with frost in it."

The tin plates had gone back to McCrae, and were returning, loaded this time with bread and
molasses. A steaming cup of tea accompanied each plate. Fortunately there was milk for the
children, two of the cows having contributed this important item of the commissariat.

When the meal was over and the dishes washed and packed, Aleck made another round of the camp
before settling down for the night. Meantime mothers gathered their families about them as
best they could; the little ones sleepily mumbled their prayers, and all hands, young and old,
nestled down like a brood of tired chickens under the white wings of the protecting tent. Outside
the ground-drift sifted gently about the sleighs, the cows sighed in contentment, and the wolves
yapped to each other in the distance.

CHAPTER III

PRAIRIE LAND

The afternoon that has just been described was typical of the days that were to follow as the
immigrant party laboured its slow pilgrimage into the Farther West. True, they entered on the
very next day a district having some pretence of settlement, where it was sometimes possible
to secure shelter for the women and children under hospitable Mennonite roofs. The peculiar
housekeeping principles of this class of settlers, however, which involved the lodging of cattle
and horses in the same building with the human members of the family, discouraged too great
intimacy with them, and for the most part the new-comers preferred the shelter of their own
tent. They soon emerged from the Red River Valley, left the vast, level, treeless plain behind
them, and plunged into the rolling and lightly wooded Pembina region. Here clumps of small
willows and, where repeated fires had not destroyed them, light bluffs of slender poplars afforded
a measure of protection, and from the resources of the few scattered settlers already in the
country they were able to replenish their supplies of fodder for the stock, and even to add
to their own larder. Fortunately the wind continued to blow from the north, and, although the
sun shone with astonishing fierceness in the middle of the day, the snow thawed but little
and the trail remained passable. Other parties of settlers, wending their way westward to the
region where homesteads were still available, or moving in to lands located the previous year,
were overtaken; and again the party were themselves overtaken by more rapid-moving immigrants
from behind, so that in the course of four or five days their cavalcade stretched far ahead
and far to the rear. Acquaintanceships were made quickly--no one stood on ceremony; and as
the journey wore on the Harrises began to feel that they already possessed many friends in
the country, and that life on the prairie would not be altogether lonely.

After numerous consultations with McCrae, Harris had arranged that his immediate destination
should be in a district where the scrub country melted into open prairie on the western side
of the Pembina. The Arthurses, who were also of the party, had homesteaded there, and Fred
Arthurs had built a little house on the land the year before. Arthurs was now bringing his
young wife to share with him the privations and the privileges of their new home. A friendship
had already sprung up between Mrs. Arthurs and Mrs. Harris, and nothing seemed more appropriate
than that the two women should occupy the house together while Harris sought out new homestead
land and Arthurs proceeded with the development of his farm. It was McCrae, whose interest
in every member of the expedition was that of a father, that dropped the germ of this suggestion
into Arthurs' receptive ear, and it was with paternal satisfaction he found the young couples
speedily work out for themselves the arrangements which he had planned for them all along.

After the crossing of the Pembina the party began to scatter--some to homesteads already located;
others to friends who would billet them until their arrangements were completed. As team after
team swung out from the main road a certain sense of loss was experienced by those who were
left, but it was cheery words and good wishes and mutual invitations that marked each separation.
At length came the trail, almost lost in the disappearing snow, that led to Arthurs' homestead.
A quick handshake with McCrae, Ned Beacon, and the doctor, and a few others who had grown upon
them in the journey, and the two young couples turned out to break their way over the little-used
route that now lay before them.

Darkness was settling down--darkness of the seventh night since their departure from Emerson--when,
like a mole on the face of the plain, a little grey lump grew on the horizon. Arthurs rose
in his sleigh and waved his fur cap in the air; Harris sent back an answering cheer; the women
plied their husbands with questions; even the horses took on new energy, and plunged desperately
through the frozen snow which one moment supported their weight and the next splintered in
broken ice-cakes beneath them. Slowly the mole grew until in the gathering shadows it took
on indistinctly the shape of a building, and just as the rising moon crested the ridge of the
Pembina hills the travellers swung up at the door. Arthurs had carried the key of the padlock
in his hand for the last mile; everybody was out of the sleighs in a moment, and the next they
were stamping their cramped feet on the cold wooden floor of the little shack. Arthurs walked
unerringly to a nail on the wall and took down a lantern; its dull flame drove the mist slowly
down the glass, and presently the light was beating back from the glistening frost which sparkled
on every log of the little room.

"Well, here we are in Hungry Hall," said Arthurs. "Everything just as I left it." Then, turning
to his wife, "Come, Lil," he said. "Jack, perhaps you have an engagement of your own." He took
his wife in a passionate embrace and planted a fervent kiss upon her lips, while Harris followed
his example. Then they sat down on the boxes that served for chairs, amid a happiness too deep
for words...So the minutes passed until Mrs. Arthurs sprang to her feet. "Why, Mary," she exclaimed,
"I do believe you're crying," while the moisture glistened on her own cheek. "Now, you men,
clear out! I suppose you think the horses will stable themselves? Yes, I see you have the box
full of wood, Fred. That's not so bad for a start. Leave some matches, and say, you might just
get our boxes in here. Remember we've lived in these clothes for the best part of two weeks."

The young men sprang to their task, and as soon as they were out of the house the girls threw
their arms about each other and wept like women together. It was only for a moment; a quick
dash of the hand across the eyes, and both were busy removing coats and wraps.

The door opened, and their "boxes," as well as other equipment from the sleighs, were carried
in, and the men disappeared to the little stable at the back of the house. After several attempts
the girls succeeded in starting a fire in the rusted stove, and soon its grateful heat was
radiating to every corner of the room. As they busied themselves unpacking dishes and provisions
they had opportunity to take observations of the new place that for one was to be home and
for the other a very welcome haven in a strange land.

The house was built of poplar logs, hewed and dovetailed at the corners with the skill of the
Ontario woodsman. It was about twelve by sixteen feet in size, with collar-beams eight feet
from the floor. The roof was of two thicknesses of elm boards, with tar-paper between. The
floor was of poplar boards. The door was in the east side, near the south-east corner; the
stove stood about the centre of the east wall. The only window was in the south; six panes
of eight-by-ten glass sufficed for light. Through this window another lantern shone back from
the darkness, and the flickering light from the stove danced in duplicate. A rough board table
sat under the window; a box nailed in the south-west corner evidently served as cupboard. No
tools or movables of any value had been left in the place, Arthurs having stored such effects
with a neighbour, some dozen miles away, lest they be stolen from the cabin by some unscrupulous
traveller during his absence.

"I like the plan of it very much," said Mrs. Arthurs, after a general survey of the room. "Don't
you think Fred has shown good judgment in the design? This"--indicating the door--"will be
my reception-room. And this, a little further in, is the parlour. The kitchen and pantry are
right at hand--so convenient for the maid in serving, you know. And then our rooms. Fred and
I will have the long room in the north-west wing, while you, of course, will occupy the guest-chamber
in the northeast. Do not be alarmed, my dear; if the silence of the prairies weighs too heavily
upon you we shall be within call. The bath may be reached from either room with equal convenience."

