On the fourth day towards evening only five bags with water remained, or not quite half a cupful
for each member of the party. As the nights, however, at any rate were cooler than the days,
and the thirst at such times vexed them less than under the burning rays of the sun, and as
the people had received in the morning a small quantity of water, Stas ordered those bags saved
for the following day. The negroes grumbled at this order, but fear of Stas was still great;
so they did not dare to rush at this last supply, especially as near it stood a guard of two
men armed with Remingtons, the guard being changed every hour.

The Wahimas and Samburus cheated their thirst by pulling out blades of poor grass and chewing
its roots. Nevertheless, there was almost no moisture in it, as the inexorable sun burnt it,
even below the earth's surface.* [*About the waterless plains in this region see the excellent
book, entitled "Kilima-Njaro," by the Rev. Mr. Le Roy, at present Bishop of Gabon.]

Sleep, though it did not quench their thirst, at least permitted them to forget it; so when
night followed, the men, weary and exhausted with the whole day's march, dropped as though
lifeless, wherever they stopped, and fell into deep slumber. Stas also fell asleep, but in
his soul he had too many worries and was disturbed too much to sleep peacefully and long. After
a few hours he awoke and began to meditate on what was to come, and where he could secure water
for Nell, and for the whole caravan, together with the people and the animals. His situation
was hard and perhaps horrible, but the resourceful boy did not yet yield to despair. He began
to recall all the incidents, from the time of their abduction from Fayûm until that moment:
the great journey across the Sahara, the hurricane in the desert, the attempts to escape, Khartûm,
the Mahdi, Fashoda, their liberation from Gebhr's hands; afterwards the further journey after
Linde's death until reaching Lake Bassa-Narok and that place at which they were passing the
night. "So much did we undergo, so much have we suffered," he soliloquized, "so often did it
seem that all was lost and that there was no help; nevertheless, God aided me and I always
found help. Why, it is impossible that, after having passed over such roads and gone through
so many terrible dangers, we should perish upon this the last journey. Now we have yet a little
water and this region--why, it is not a Sahara, for if it were the people would know about it."

But hope was mainly sustained in him by this, that on the southeast he espied through the field-glass
some kind of misty outlines as though of mountains. Perhaps they were hundreds of English miles
away, perhaps more. But if they succeeded in reaching them, they would be saved, as mountains
are seldom waterless. How much time that would consume was something he could not compute for
it all depended upon the height of the mountains. Lofty peaks in such transparent atmosphere
as that of Africa can be seen at an immeasurable distance; so it was necessary to find water
before that time. Otherwise destruction threatened them.

"It is necessary," Stas repeated to himself.

The harsh breathing of the elephant, who exhaled from his lungs as best he could the burning
heat, interrupted every little while the boy's meditations. But after a certain time it seemed
to him that he heard some kind of sound, resembling groans, coming from the direction in which
the water-bags lay covered in the grass for the night. As the groans were repeated several
times, he rose to see what was happening and, walking towards the grass plot a few score paces
distant from the tent, he perceived two dark bodies lying near each other and two Remington
barrels glistening in the moonlight.

"The negroes are always the same," he thought; "they were to watch over the water, more precious
now to us than anything in the world, and both went to sleep as though in their own huts. Ah!
Kali's bamboo will have some work to do to-morrow."

Under this impression he approached and shook the foot of one of the sentinels, but at once
drew back in horror.

The apparently sleeping negro lay on his back with a knife sticking in his throat up to the
handle and beside him was the other, likewise cut so terribly that his head was almost severed
from the trunk.

Two bags with water had disappeared; the other three lay in the littered grass, slashed and sunken.

Stas felt that his hair stood on end.

XXIV

In response to his shout Kali was the first to come rushing; after him came the two guardsmen
who were to relieve the previous watch, and a few moments later all the Wahimas and Samburus
assembled at the scene of the crime, shouting and yelling. A commotion, full of cries and terror,
ensued. The people were concerned not so much about the slain and the murderers as about the
water which soaked into the parched jungle soil. Some negroes threw themselves upon the ground
and, clawing out with their fingers lumps of earth, sucked out the remnants of moisture. Others
shouted that evil spirits had murdered the guards and slashed the bags. But Stas and Kali knew
what it all meant. M'Kunje and M'Pua were missing from those men howling above that grass patch.
In that which had happened there was something more than the murder of two guards and the theft
of water. The remaining slashed bags were evidence that it was an act of revenge and at the
same time a sentence of death for the whole caravan. The priests of the wicked Mzimu revenged
themselves upon the good one. The fetish-men revenged themselves upon the young king who exposed
their frauds and did not permit them to deceive the ignorant Wahimas. Now the wings of death
stretched over the entire caravan like a hawk over a flock of doves.

Kali recollected too late that, having his mind troubled and engrossed with something else,
he forgot to have the fetish-men bound, as from the time of their flight he had ordered them
to be each evening. It was apparent that both sentinels, watching the water, through inbred
negro carelessness, lay down and fell asleep. This facilitated the work of the rogues and permitted
them to escape unpunished.

Before the confusion subsided somewhat and the people recovered from their consternation, considerable
time elapsed; nevertheless, the assassins could not be far away, as the ground under the cut
bags was moist and the blood which flowed from both of the slain did not yet coagulate. Stas
issued an order to pursue the runaways not only for the purpose of punishing them, but also
to recover the last two bags of water. Kali, mounting a horse and taking with him about thirteen
guardsmen, started in pursuit. Stas at first wanted to take part in it, but it occurred to
him that he could not leave Nell alone among the excited and enraged negroes; so he remained.
He only directed Kali to take Saba along with him.

He himself remained, for he feared a downright mutiny, particularly among the Samburus. But
in this he was mistaken. The negroes as a rule break out easily, and sometimes for trivial
causes, but when crushed by a great calamity and particularly when the inexorable hand of death
weighs upon them, they submit passively; not only those whom Islam teaches that a struggle
with destiny is vain, but all others. Then neither terror nor the moments of torture can arouse
them from their torpor. It happened thus at this time. The Wahimas, as well as the Samburus,
when the first excitement passed away and the idea that they must die definitely found lodgment
in their minds, lay down quietly on the ground waiting for death; in view of which not a mutiny
was to be feared, but rather that on the morrow they would not want to rise and start upon
their further journey. Stas, when he observed this, was seized by a great pity for them.

Kali returned before daybreak and at once placed before Stas two bags torn to pieces, in which
there was not a drop of water.

"Great Master," he said, "madi apana!"

Stas rubbed his perspiring forehead with his hand; after which he said:

"And M'Kunje and M'Pua?"

"M'Kunje and M'Pua are dead," Kali replied.

"Did you order them to be killed?"

"A lion or 'wobo' killed them."

And he began to relate what happened. The bodies of the two murderers were found quite far
from the camp at the place where they met death. Both lay close to each other, both had skulls
crushed from behind, lacerated shoulders, and gnawed spines. Kali assumed that when the "wobo"
or lion appeared before them in the moonlight they fell on their faces before it and began
to entreat it that it should spare their lives. But the terrible beast killed both, and afterwards,
having appeased its hunger, scented water and tore the bags to pieces.

"God punished them," Stas said, "and the Wahimas should be convinced that the wicked Mzimu
is incapable of rescuing any one."

And Kali added:

"God punished them, but we have no water."

"Far ahead of us in the east I saw mountains. There must be water there."

"Kali sees them also, but it is many, many days to them."

A moment of silence followed.

"Master," spoke out Kali, "let the 'Good Mzimu'--let the 'bibi' beg the Great Spirit for rain
or for a river."

Stas left him, making no reply. But before the tent he saw Nell's little figure; the shouts
and yells had awakened her some time before.

"What has happened, Stas?" she asked, running up to him.

And he placed his hand on her little head and solemnly said:

"Nell, pray to God for water; otherwise we all shall perish."

So the little maiden upraised her pale little face and, fastening her eyes on the moon's silvery
shield, began to implore for succor Him who in heaven causes the stars to revolve and on earth
tempers the wind for the shorn lamb.

After a sleepless, noisy, and anxious night the sun rolled upon the horizon suddenly, as it
always does under the equator, and a bright day followed. On the grass there was not a drop
of dew; on the sky not a cloudlet. Stas ordered the guards to assemble the men and delivered
a short speech to them. He declared to them that it was impossible to return to the river now,
for they of course well knew that they were separated from it by five days' and nights' journey.
But on the other hand no one knew whether there was not water in the opposite direction. Perhaps
even not far away they would find some stream, some rivulet or slough. Trees, indeed, could
not be seen, but it often happens upon open plains where the strong gale carries away the seeds,
trees do not grow even at the water-side. Yesterday they saw some big antelopes and a few ostriches
running towards the east, which was a sign that yonder there must be some watering place, and
in view of this whoever is not a fool and whoever has in his bosom a heart, not of a hare but
of a lion or buffalo, will prefer to move forward, though in thirst and pain, rather than to
lie down and wait there for vultures or hyenas.

And saying this, he pointed with his hand at the vultures, a few of which coursed already in
an ill-omened circle above the caravan. After these words the Wahimas, whom Stas commanded
to rise, stood up almost as one man, for, accustomed to the dreadful power of kings, they did
not dare to resist. But many of the Samburus, in view of the fact that their king Faru remained
at the lake, did not want to rise, and these said among themselves: "Why should we go to meet
death when she herself will come to us?" In this manner the caravan proceeded, reduced almost
one-half, and it started from the outset in torture. For twenty-four hours the people had not
had a drop of water or any other fluid in their mouths. Even in a cooler climate this, at labor,
would have been an unendurable suffering; and how much more so in this blazing African furnace
in which even those who drink copiously perspire the water so quickly that almost at the same
moment they can wipe it off their skin with their hands. It was also to be foreseen that many
of the men would drop on the way from exhaustion and sunstroke. Stas protected Nell as best
he could from the sun and did not permit her to lean for even a moment out of the palanquin,
whose little roof he covered with a piece of white percale in order to make it double. With
the rest of the water, which he still had in the rubber bottle, he prepared a strong tea for
her and handed it to her when cooled off, without any sugar, for sweets increase thirst. The
little girl urged him with tears to drink also; so he placed to his lips the bottle in which
there remained scarcely a few thimblefuls of water, and, moving his throat, pretended that
he drank it. At the moment when he felt the moisture on his lips it seemed to him that his
breast and stomach were aflame and that if he did not quench that flame he would drop dead.
Before his eyes red spots began to flit, and in his jaws he felt a terrible pain, as if some
one stuck a thousand pins in them. His hands shook so that he almost spilt these last drops.
Nevertheless, he caught only two or three in his mouth with his tongue; the rest he saved for Nell.

A day of torture and toil again passed, after which, fortunately, a cooler night came. But
the following morning the intense heat became terrible. There was not a breath of air. The
sun, like an evil spirit, ravaged with living flame the parched earth. The borders of the horizon
whitened. As far as the eyes reached not even euphorbias could be seen. Nothing--only a burnt,
desolate plain, covered with tufts of blackened grass and heather. From time to time there
resounded in the immeasurable distance light thunder, but this in fair skies proclaims not
storms but a drought.

About noon, when the heat became the greatest, it was necessary to halt. The caravan broke
ranks in gloomy silence. It appeared that one horse fell and about thirteen of the guards remained
on the road. During the rest nobody thought of eating. The people had sunken eyes and cracked
lips and on them dried clots of blood. Nell panted like a bird, so Stas surrendered to her
the rubber bottle, and exclaiming: "I drank! I drank!" he ran to the other side of the camp,
for he feared that if he remained he would snatch that water from her or would demand that
she should share it with him. This perhaps was his most heroic act during the course of the
journey. He himself, however, began to suffer horribly. Before his eyes there flew continually
the red patches. He felt a tightening of his jaws so strongly that he opened and closed them
with difficulty. His throat was dry, burning; there was no saliva in his mouth; the tongue
was as though wooden. And of course this was but the beginning of the torture for him and for
the caravan.

The thunder announcing the drought resounded incessantly on the horizon's border. About three
o'clock, when the sun passed to the western side of the heavens, Stas ordered the caravan to
rise and started at its head towards the east. But now hardly seventy men followed him, and
every little while some one of them lay down beside his pack to rise nevermore. The heat decreased
a few degrees but was still terrible. The still air was permeated as though with the gas of
burning charcoal. The people had nothing to breathe and the animals began to suffer no less.
In an hour after the start again one of the horses fell. Saba panted and his flanks heaved;
from his blackened tongue not a drop of froth fell. The King, accustomed to the dry African
jungle, apparently suffered the least, but he began to be vicious. His little eyes glittered
with a kind of strange light. To Stas, and particularly to Nell, who from time to time talked
to him, he answered still with a gurgle, but when Kali carelessly came near him he grunted
menacingly and waved his trunk so that he would have killed the boy if he had not jumped aside
in time.

Kali's eyes were bloodshot, the veins in his neck were inflated, and his lips cracked the same
as the other negroes. About five o'clock he approached Stas and, in a hollow voice which with
difficulty issued out of his throat, said:

"Great master, Kali can go no further. Let the night come here."

Stas overcame the pain in his jaws and answered with an effort:

"Very well. We will stop. The night will bring relief."
   "It will bring death," the young negro whispered.

The men threw the loads off their heads, but as the fever in their thickened blood already
reached the highest degree, on this occasion they did not immediately lie down on the ground.
Their hearts and the arteries in their temples, hands, and limbs pulsated as if in a moment
they would burst. The skin of their bodies, drying up and shrinking, began to itch; in their
bones they were sensible of an excessive disquiet and in their entrails and throats a fire.
Some walked uneasily among the packets; others could be seen farther away in ruddy rays of
the setting sun as they strolled one after another among the dried tufts as though seeking
something, and this continued until their strength was entirely exhausted. Then they fell in
turn on the ground and lay in convulsions. Kali sat, squatting near Stas and Nell, catching
the air with open mouth, and began to repeat entreatingly between one breath and the other:

"Bwana kubwa, water."

Stas gazed at him with a glassy stare and remained silent.

"Bwana kubwa, water!"

And after a while:

"Kali is dying."

At this, Mea, who for an unknown reason endured thirst the easiest and suffered the least of
all, approached, sat close to him, and, embracing his neck with her arms, said in her quiet,
melodious voice.

"Mea wants to die together with Kali."

A long silence followed.

In the meantime the sun set and night covered the region. The sky became dark-blue. On its
southern side the Cross glistened. Above the plain a myriad of stars twinkled. The moon came
out from under the earth and began to satiate the darkness with light, and on the west with
the waning and pale twilight extended the zodiacal luminosity. The air was transformed into
a great luminous gulf. The ever-increasing luster submerged the region. The palanquin, which
remained forgotten on the King's back, and the tents glistened, just as whitewashed houses
glisten in a bright night. The world sank into silence and sleep encompassed the earth.

And in the presence of this stillness and this quiet of nature the people howled from pain
and waited for death. On the silvery background of the darkness the gigantic black form of
the elephant was strongly outlined. The moon's beams illuminated besides the tents, Stas' and
Nell's dresses and, amid tufts of heather, the dark, shriveled bodies of the negroes and, scattered
here and there, piles of packages. Before the children sat, propped on his fore legs, Saba,
and, raising his head towards the moon's shield, he howled mournfully.

In Stas' soul oscillated only the remnants of thought, changed into a gloomy and despairing
feeling that this time there was no help and that all those prodigious toils and efforts, those
sufferings, those acts of will and courage, which he had performed during the terrible journey--from
Medinet to Khartûm, from Khartûm to Fashoda, and from Fashoda to the unknown lake--would avail
naught, and that an inexorable end of the struggle and of life was approaching. And this appeared
to him all the more horrible because this end came during the time of the final journey, at
the termination of which lay the ocean. Ah! He would not now conduct little Nell to the coast;
he would not convey her by a steamer to Port Said, would not surrender her to Mr. Rawlinson;
he himself would not fall into his father's arms and would not hear from his lips that he had
acted like a brave boy and like a true Pole! The end, the end! In a few days the sun would
shine only upon the lifeless bodies and afterwards would dry them up into a semblance of those
mummies which slumber in an eternal sleep in the museums in Egypt.

From torture and fever his mind began to get confused. Ante-mortem visions and delusions of
hearing crowded upon him. He heard distinctly the voices of the Sudânese and Bedouins yelling
"Yalla! Yalla!" at the speeding camels. He saw Idris and Gebhr. The Mahdi smiled at him with
his thick lips, asking: "Do you want to drink at the spring of truth?"--Afterwards the lion
gazed at him from the rock; later Linde gave him a gallipot of quinine and said: "Hurry, hurry,
for the little one will die." And in the end he beheld only the pale, very dear little face
and two little hands stretched out towards him.

Suddenly he trembled and consciousness returned to him for a moment, for hard by murmured the
quiet whisper of Nell, resembling a moan:

"Stas--water!"

And she, like Kali previously, looked to him only for help.

But as twelve hours before he had given her the last drop, he now started up suddenly, and
exclaimed in a voice in which vibrated an outburst of pain, despair, and affliction:

"Oh, Nell, I only pretended that I was drinking! For three days I have had nothing in my mouth!"

And clasping his head with both hands he ran away in order not to look at her sufferings. He
rushed blindly among tufts of grass and heather until he fell upon one of the tufts. He was
unarmed. A leopard, lion, or even a big hyena would find in him an easy prey. But only Saba
came running to him. Having smelt at him on all sides, he again began to howl, as if summoning
aid for him.

Nobody, however, hurried with aid. Only from above, the moon, quiet and indifferent, looked
on him. For a long time the boy lay like dead. He was revived only by a cooler breath of wind,
which unexpectedly blew from the east. Stas sat up and after a while attempted to rise to return
to Nell.

The cooler wind blew a second time. Saba ceased howling and, turning towards the east, began
to dilate his nostrils. Suddenly he barked once or twice a short, broken bass and dashed ahead.
For some time he could not be heard, but soon his barking again resounded. Stas rose and, staggering
on his numb legs, began to look after him. Long journeys, long stays in the jungle, the necessity
of holding all his senses in continual restraint, and continual dangers had taught the boy
to pay careful heed to everything which was taking place about him. So, notwithstanding the
tortures he felt at that moment, notwithstanding his half-conscious mind, through instinct
and habit he watched the behavior of the dog. And Saba, after the lapse of a certain time,
again appeared near him, but was somewhat strangely agitated and uneasy. A few times he raised
his eyes at Stas, ran around, again rushed ahead, scenting and barking in the heather; again
he came back and finally, seizing the boy's clothes, began to pull him in a direction opposite
to the camp.

Stas completely recovered his senses.

"What is this?" he thought. "Either the dog's mind, from thirst, is disordered or he has scented
water. But no! If water was near he would have run to it to drink and would have wet jaws.
If it was far away, he would not have scented it--water has no smell. He is not pulling me
to antelopes, for he did not want to eat during the evening. Nor to beasts of prey. Well, what
is it?"

And suddenly his heart began to beat in his bosom yet more strongly.

"Perhaps the wind brought him the odor of men?--Perhaps--in the distance there is some negro
village?--Perhaps one of the kites has flown as far--Oh, merciful Christ! Oh, Christ!--"

And under the influence of a gleam of hope he regained his strength and began to run towards
the camp, notwithstanding the obstinacy of the dog, who incessantly barred his way. In the
camp Nell's form loomed white before him and her weak voice reached him: after a while he stumbled
over Kali lying on the ground, but he paid no heed to anything. Reaching the pack in which
the sky-rockets were, he tore it open and drew out one of them. With trembling hands he tied
it to a bamboo stick, planted it in a crack in the ground, struck a match and lit the string
of the tube hanging at the bottom.

After a while a red snake flew upwards with a sputter and a sizzle. Stas seized a bamboo pole
with both hands in order not to fall and fixed his eyes on the distance. His pulse and his
temples beat like sledge hammers; his lips moved in fervent prayer. His last breath, and in
it his whole soul, he sent to God.

One minute passed, another, a third, and a fourth. Nothing! Nothing! The boy's hand dropped,
his head bowed to the ground, and immense grief flooded his tortured breast.

"In vain! In vain!" he whispered. "I will go and sit beside Nell and we will die together."

At this moment far, far away on the silvery background of the moonlit night, a fiery ribbon
suddenly soared upward and scattered into golden stars, which fell slowly, like great tears,
upon the earth.

"Succor!" Stas shouted.

And immediately these people, who were half-dead a short time before, dashed pell-mell in a
race across tufts of shrubs and grass. After the first sky-rocket, a second and third appeared.
After that the breeze brought a report as though of tapping, in which it was easy to divine
distant shots. Stas ordered all the Remingtons to be fired, and from that time the colloquy
of rifles was not interrupted at all and became more and more distinct. The boy, sitting on
a horse, which also as though by a miracle recovered its strength, and keeping Nell before
him, dashed across the plain towards the saving sounds. Beside him rushed Saba and after him
trumpeted the gigantic King. The two camps were separated by a space of a few miles, but as
from both sides they drew to each other simultaneously, the whole trip did not last long. Soon
the rifle shots could not only be heard but seen. Yet one last sky-rocket flew out in the air
not farther than a few hundred paces. After that numerous lights glistened. The slight elevation
of the ground hid them for a while, but when Stas passed it he found himself almost in front
of a row of negroes holding in their hands burning torches.

At the head of the row were two Europeans, in English helmets and with rifles in their hands.

With one glance of the eye Stas recognized them as being Captain Glenn and Doctor Clary.

XXV

