The families of Devonshire and Chesterfield have received a great blow at Derby, where, on
the death of John Stanhope, they set up another of the name.  One Mr. Rivett, the Duke's chief
friend and manager. stood himself, and carried it by a majority of seventy-one.  Lord Chesterfield
had sent down credit for ten thousand pounds.  The Cavendish's. however, are very happy, for
Lady Hartington(1498) has produced a son.(1499)

I asked a very intelligent person if there could be any foundation for the story of Niccolini's
banishment taking its rise from complaints of our court: he answered very sensibly, that even
if our court had complained, -which was most unlikely, it was not at all probable that the
court of Vienna would have paid any regard to it.  There is another paragraph in your same
letter in which I must set you right: you talk Of the sudden change of my opinion about Lord
Walpole:(1500) I never had but one opinion about him, and that was always most favourable:
nor can I imagine what occasioned your mistake, unless my calling him a wild boy, where I talked
of the consequences of his father's death.  I meant nothing in the world by wild, but the thoughtlessness
of a boy of nineteen, who comes to the possession of a peerage and an estate.  My partiality,
I am sure, could never let me say any thing else of him.

Mr. Chute's sister is dead.  When I came from town Mr. Whithed had heard nothing of her will
- she had about four thousand pounds.  The brother is so capricious a monster, that we almost
hope she has not given the whole to our friend.

You will be diverted with a story I am going to tell You; it is very long, and so is my letter
already; but you perceive I am in the country and have nothing to hurry me.  There is about
town a Sir William Burdett,*1501) a man of a very good family, but most infamous character.
He formerly was at Paris with a Mrs. Penn, a Quaker's wife, whom he there bequeathed to the
public, and was afterwards a sharper at Brussels, and lately came to England to discover a
plot for poisoning the Prince of Orange, in which I believe he was poisoner, poison, and informer
all himself.  In short, to give you his character at once, there is a wager entered in the
bet-book at White's (a MS. of which I may one day or other give you an account), that the first
baronet that will be hanged is this Sir William Burdett.  About two months ago he met at St.
James's, a Lord Castledurrow,(1502) a young Irishman, and no genius as you will find, and entered
into conversation with him: the Lord, seeing a gentleman, fine, polite, and acquainted with
every body, invited him to dinner for next day, and a Captain Rodney,(1503) a young seaman,
who has made a fortune by very gallant behaviour during the war.  At dinner it came out, that
neither the Lord nor the Captain had ever been at any Pelham-levees.  "Good God!" said Sir
William, "that must not be so any longer; I beg I may carry you to both the Duke and Mr. Pelham:
I flatter myself I am very well with both." The appointment was made for the next Wednesday
and Friday; in the mean time, he invited the two young men to dine with him the next day. 
When they came, he presented them to a lady, dressed foreign, as a princess of the house of'
Brandenburg: she had a toadeater, and there was another man, who gave himself for a count.
After dinner Sir William looked at his watch, and said, "J-s! it is not so late as I thought
by an hour; Princess, will your Highness say how we shall divert ourselves till it is time
to go to the play!"  "Oh!" said she, "for my part you know I abominate every thing but pharaoh."
"I am very sorry, Madam," replied he, very gravely, "but I don't know whom your Highness will
get to tally to you; you know I am ruined by dealing'."  "Oh!" says she, "the Count will deal
to us."  "I would with all my soul.