There are no companies for the exploration of the mines in that remote state. Some inhabitants,
in distant periods, have procured the formation of numerous caravans with the character of
companies, and with the object of collecting precious metals, which they encountered in the
placers of Arizuma and of Papagueria, but until now they have not been able to hold with effect
undertakings so laudable.

Various are the causes on account of which the riches which lie buried through all parts of
the immense territory of the State of Sonora have not been explored. Some of these reasons
have already been referred to, but, for greater clearness, we take this opportunity to recapitulate
them all. The first, which are much noted, are the following:

1st. The absolute want of personal security.

2d. The scarcity of population, and of the means of subsistence for the few hands that they
were able to have devoted to working mines in the immediate vicinity of hostile Indians.

3d. The irregularity and the want of experience and capital in those who have undertaken the
exploration and the extraction of metals, which has occasioned the abandonment of this class
of speculations whenever they presented any difficulties, or commenced to be more costly by
failing to produce metals upon the surface of the earth. Some certain speculations which have
been directed with regard to the rules which regulate mineral industry, and have been prosecuted
with capital, have well compensated the labors and efforts of the proprietors.

Gold and silver, as above said, are not the only mineral productions of Sonora. In the part
of Muchachos, situated in the Sierra Madre, between Tueson and Tubac, and in Mogollon, a place
situated in the mountains of Apuchuria, in those of Papagueria, and near the Colorado, are
found great masses of virgin iron, and abundant veins of the same metal. Cinnabar was discovered
in 1802 in the hill of Santa Teresa, situated in the mineral of Rio Chico; and in the hills
which are at the north of the Colorado, it has been found in the past age. Copper is also found
in Antunes, Tonuco, Bacauchí, Pozo de Crisante, Sierra de Guadalupe, Sierra de la Papagueria,
and particularly in the Couanea, from whence have been extracted great quantities of this metal,
with a great ley of gold. Metals of lead (metales plomosos) abound in Agua Caliente, Alamo-Muerto,
La Papagueria, Arispe, and La Cieneguilla. From these two last points have been taken considerable
quantities of them, for supplying all other mines of the state [to aid in fusion], and for
munitions of war. Copperas, or sulphate of iron, is abundant in San Javier, San Antonio de
la Huerta, and Agua Caliente. In the first of these placers a vein runs from south to north,
from pieces of which, dissolved in water, there results a tint which, by evaporation, forms
into grains, and produces the same effect as the tint of China. In Cucurpe is amianto, or incombustible
crystal, which the ancients so much valued. Marbles of various classes and colors, as well
as alabasters and jaspers, are found in Opasura, Hermosillo, Uores, La Campana, and other points;
but we do not know as yet the place from which the Aztecs obtained the beautiful reddish marble
which they used in the construction of their divinity of Chapultepec, which is preserved in
the National Museum, and which, according to all conjectures and probabilities, proceeded from
the quarries of marble of that state. There are quarries of the stone of chrispa, and even
the magnet in Alamas, Hermosillo, in Sierras of the frontier, and in the causada of Barbitas,
ten leagues distant from Hermosillo, near the route of La Cieneguilla.