When an unstable young wife, getting tired of a pedantic husband in the way so familiar to
students of novels, goes off with a companion more to her taste, anyone can foresee trouble,
or what would there be to write about? When, further, her detestable lover, seeking change
and fearing the financial lash of his properly indignant parent, terminates the arrangement,
even an observer of real life can guess that her return to her rightful lord and master must
entail disagreeables; but only a reader well brazened in modern fiction could expect Don Juan
promptly to make love to and marry the husband's sister without a word of apology to anyone.
This kind of rather unsavoury dabbling in problems best left to themselves generally concludes
with the decease of most of the characters and a sort of clearing up, and to this rule, after
many years and pages of discomfort, MARY E. MANN'S new story, The Victim (HODDER AND STOUGHTON),
is no exception. Not a very attractive programme, but all the same the volume has one or two
redeeming features. For one thing, the sister is clearly and attractively drawn, and so is
the picture on the wrapper, though it represents no particular incident to be traced in the
pages of the volume which it adorns. Writing more strongly than is perhaps her wont, Mrs. MANN
has taken some trouble to emphasise the fact that in these cases of uncontrolled passion the
major penalty of guilt is borne not by the offenders themselves but by the first generation
succeeding. This does need saying occasionally, I suppose, and to that extent The Victim redeems
itself from the charge of trivial unpleasantness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. J. RATH has really discovered a new type of heroine, new at least this side the Atlantic.
His farm-bred Sadie, a Buffalo shirt-packer, classifies men by the sizes of their shirts, has
no use for any swain with a chest measurement under forty, and eventually in a most original
way finds her hero in Mister 44 (METHUEN), an enormous Canadian engineer and sportsman. She
is no chicken herself and has a passion to be free of the city and out in the great open. Sadie
is more than big; she is beautiful, burnished-copper-haired, sincere and kind, and, though
I think the author "gets this over" quite well I liked her best before she found her man and
her Robinson Crusoe adventures among the islands of Ontario, and was giving back chat to the
little foreman in the factory. Here she is a pure delight; and in these days, when a knowledge
of the American language may come in handy at any moment, this amiable romance may well be
recommended as an attractive manual of first-aid in the matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Without professing to be a student of Mrs. DIVER'S books I know enough about them to be worried
by the commonplaceness of Unconquered (MURRAY). Like so many other authors she has succumbed
to the lure of the War-novel. There may be a public for tales of this kind, but I have not
yet read one that approaches artistic success. Here we are spared nothing. Sir Mark Forsyth
goes to France in the early days, is first of all reported "missing, believed killed," and
then officially reported "killed." Of course he turns up again, but such a physical wreck that
the minx whom he was to have married breaks off the engagement. Naturally the sweet girl, friend
of Mark's childhood, undertakes to fill the gap. The minx, Bel Alison, is so scathingly drawn
that from sheer perversity I found myself hunting for one good point in her character; but
without a find. On the other hand, Lady Forsyth, Mark's mother, and a quiet, capable man called
Macnair, are admirably put before us. Yet at best there remains the conviction that the War
is terribly real that these attempts to romance about it are almost bound to be as superficial
as they are superfluous.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lost, between Ryde Pier and Southsea, Black Satin Bag, containing
    keys and eyeglasses. Reward given."--Portsmouth Paper.

A chance for the local mine-sweepers.