She passed one set of apartments, and they were empty of people, but the fire, the books on
the table, and the child's toy cast on the hearthrug showed it was deserted only for a minute.
Sister Ursula drew breath on the balcony, and then hurried upwards. There was iron rust red
on both her hands, the front of her gown was speckled with it, and a reflection in the stately
double window showed a stainless stiff fold of her head-gear battered down over her eye. Her
shoe, yes, the mended one, had burst at the side near the toe in a generous bulge of white
stocking. She climbed on wearily, for the bottle was swinging again, and in her ears there
came unbidden the nursery refrain that she used to sing to the little sick children in the
hospital at Quebec:

     "This is the cow with the crumpled horn."

Between earth and heaven, it is said, the soul on its upward journey must pass the buffeting
of many evil spirits. There flashed into Sister Ursula's mind the remembrance of a picture
of a man gazing from the leads down the side of a house--a wonderful piece of foreshortening
that made one dizzy to see. Where had she seen that picture? Memory, that works indifferently
on earth or in vacuo, told her of a book read by stealth in her novitiate, such a book as perils
body and soul, and Sister Ursula blushed redder than the brickwork a foot before her nose.
Everything that she had read in or thought about that book raced through her mind as all his
past life does not race through the soul of a drowning man. It was horrible, most horrible.
Then rose a fierce wave of rage and indignation that she, a sister of irreproachable life and
demeanour (the book had been an indiscretion, long since bitterly repented of), should be singled
out for these humiliating exercises. There were other nuns of her acquaintance, proud, haughty
and overbearing (her foot slipped here as a reminder against the sin of hasty judgments, and
she felt that it was a small and niggling Justice that counted offences at such a crisis),
and--and thinking too much of their holiness, to whom this mortification, with all the rust
flakes in bosom and kerchief, would have been salutary and wholesome. But that she, Sister
Ursula, who only desired a quiet life, should climb fire-escapes in the face of the shameless
sun and a watching population! It was too terrible. None the less she did not come down.

Praying to be delivered from evil thoughts, praying that the swinging bottle would not smash
itself against the iron ladders, she toiled on. The second and third flats were empty, and
she heard a murmur in the street; a hum of encouraging tumult, cheerful outcries bidding her
go up higher, and crisp enquiries as to whether this were the end of the performance. Her Saint--she
that had not prevailed against the Nuns--would not help Sister Ursula, and it came over her,
as cold water slides down the spine, that at her journey's end she would have to--go--through--the
window. There is no vestibule, portico, or robing-room at the upper end of a fire-escape. It
is designed for such as move in a hurry, unstudious of the graces, being for the most part
not over-dressed, and yet seeking publicity--that publicity which came to Sister Ursula unsought.
She must go through that window in order to give her invalid his medicine. Her head must go
first, and her feet, and the bursten shoe, must go last. It was the very breaking point in
the strain, and here her saint, mistaking the needs of the case, sent her a companion. Her
head was level with the window of the fourth story, and she was rejoicing to find that that
also was empty when the door opened, and there entered a man something elderly, of prominent
figure, and dressed according to the most rigid canons laid down for afternoon visits. He was
millions of leagues removed from Sister Ursula's world--this person with the tall silk hat,
the long frock-coat, the light grey trousers, the tiny yellow buttonhole rose, and the marvellous
puffed cravat anchored about with black pearl-headed pins--but an imperative need for justification
was upon her. Her own mission, the absolute rightness of her own mission, were so clear to
herself that she never doubted anyone might misunderstand when she pointed upwards to the skies,
and the flat above.

The man, who was in the act of laying his tall hat absently upon the table, looked up as the
shadow took the light, saw the gesture, and stared. Then his jaw dropped, and his face became
ashy-grey. Sister Ursula had never seen Terror in the flesh, well-dressed and fresh from a
round of calls. She gathered herself up to climb on, but the man within uttered a cry that
even the double windows could not altogether stifle, and ran round the room in circles as a
dog runs seeking a lost glove.

"He is mad," thought Sister Ursula. "Oh, heavens, and that is what has driven him mad."

He was stooping fondly over something that seemed like the coffin of a little child. Then he
rushed directly at the window open-mouthed. Sister Ursula went upwards and onwards, none the
less swiftly because she heard a muffled oath, the crash of broken glass, and the tinkling
of the broken splinters on the pavestones below. For the second time only in her career, she
looked down--down between the ladder and the wall. A silk hat was bobbing wildly, as a fishing-float
on a troubled stream, not a dozen rungs beneath, and a voice--the voice of fear--cried hoarsely,
"Where is it? Where is it?" Then went up to the roofs the roaring and the laughter of a great
crowd; yells, cat-calls, ki-yis and hootings many times multiplied. Her Saint had heard her
at last, and caused Sister Ursula to disregard the pains of going through the window. Her one
desire now was to reach that haven, to jump, dive, leap-frog through it if necessary, and shut
out the unfortunate maniac. It was a short race, but swift, and Saint Ursula took care of the
bottle. A long course of afternoon calls, with refreshments at clubs in the intervals, is not
such good training as the care of the sick in all weathers for sprinting over a course laid
at ninety degrees. Nor again can the best of athletes go swiftly up a ladder if he carries
a priceless violin in one hand and its equally priceless bow in his teeth, and handicaps himself
with varnished leather buttoned boots. They climbed, the one below the other.

The window at the foot of the invalid's bed was open. At the next window was the white face
of the invalid. Sister Ursula reached the sash, threw it up, went through--let no man ask how--shut
it gently but with amazing quickness, and sank panting at the foot of the bed, one hand on
the bottle.

"There was no other way," she panted. "The door was locked. I could not help. Oh! He is here!"

The face of Terror in the top hat rose to the window-level inch by inch. The violin-bow was
between his teeth, and his hat hung over one eye in the fashion of early dawn.

"It's Cott van Cott," said the invalid, slowly and critically. "He looks quite an old man.
Cott and his Strad. How very bad for the Strad!"

"Open the window. Where is it? Is there a way? Open the window!" roared Cott, without removing
the violin-bow.

Sister Ursula held up one hand warningly as she stooped over the invalid.

For the second time did Cott van Cott misinterpret the gesture and heaved himself upward, the
violin and the bow clicking and rattling at every stride. He was fleeing to the leads to save
his life and his violin from death by fire--fire in the basement--and the crowd in the street
roared below him with the roar of a full-fed conflagration.

The invalid fell back on the pillows and wiped his eyes. The hands of the clock were on the
hour appointed for the medicine, lacking only the thirty seconds necessary for pouring it into
a wine-glass. He took it from Sister Ursula's hand, still shaking with helpless laughter.

"God bless you, Sister Ursula," he said. "You've saved my life."

"The medicine was to be given," she answered simply. "I--I could not help coming that way."

"If you only knew," said the invalid. "If you only knew! I saw it from out of the windows.
Good heavens! the dear old world is just the same as ever. I must get back to it. I must positively
get well and get back. And, Sister Ursula, do you mind telling me when you're quite composed
everything that happened between the time the door shut and--and you came in that way?"

After a little Sister Ursula told, and the invalid laughed himself faint once more. When Sister
Ursula re-settled the pillows, her hand fell on the butt of a revolver that had come from the
desk by the head of the bed. She did not understand what it was, but the sight pained her.

"Wait a minute," said the invalid, and he took one little brass thimble-like thing from its
inside. "I--I wanted to use it for something before you went out, but I saw you come up, and
I don't want it any more. I must certainly get back to the world again. Dear old world! Nice
old world! And Mrs. Cassidy prayed with you in the cellar, did she? And Van Cott thought it
was a fire? Do you know, Sister Ursula, that all those things would have been impossible on
any other planet? I'm going to get well, Sister Ursula."

In the long night, Sister Ursula, blushing all over under the eyes of the night-light, heard
him laughing softly in his sleep.

"Lions in Their Dens."

VI.--EMILE ZOLA.

BY V. R. MOONEY. ILLUSTRATIONS BY E. M. JESSOP.

(With photographs at various ages.)

                 -----

"M. Zola?"

"No, monsieur, this is not No. 21 bis--this is No. 21."

By way of justification for the asperity of the tones in which this reply is given forth the
concierge of No. 21 proceeds to inform me that every one makes the same mistake.

"It is a perpetual procession here," she goes on. "It is nothing but M. Zola? M. Zola? M. Zola?
without cease. I wish people would learn the right address."

Now I at least ought to have known better, for I had visited M. Zola before, so, feeling rather
small, I beat a hurried retreat, and betook myself to No. 21 bis.

Unlike most Parisians, Zola has a whole house to himself, and, as you perceive at a glance
on entering, a very richly decorated house it is; tapestries, bronzes, bas-reliefs, sculptures
in stone and marble, are studiously arranged about the hall and the handsome staircase, the
general effect, in the subdued light of windows of stained glass, being most artistic.

On the first landing, lances and swords and armour of different kinds shine out from behind
tropical plants. On this landing is Zola's studio, which is full of indications of his love
for the antique--a love that is not carried to extremes, however, for the high-backed, uncomfortable
chairs of our forefathers, in which so many of his fellow-collectors find it necessary to seat
themselves (or their visitors), are here replaced by spacious modern armchairs.

I am not kept long waiting.

"Well, I am glad that this is a wet day, or else you would very likely have regretted losing
the opportunity of going to the Bois."

Such are the maitre's first words after a hearty shake of the hands.

"So you want to know all about me. Now let me see what I can tell you without repeating myself."

And Zola sinks down into a small but comfortable armchair, with a small Turkish inlaid coffee
and cigarette stand covered with books on one side, and on the other an antique wrought iron
fender placed in front of an immense fireplace, and commences placidly the following monologue,
which I give as nearly as possible in his own words.

"My father's mother was a Corfiote, he himself a Venetian, and my mother was a Parisian. My
father and mother met in Paris, during one of my father's numerous visits here in connection
with an aqueduct which he wanted to construct at Aix in Provence. Within a very short time
of their first meeting, they were married. It was a love match. I was born in Paris, in 1840,
and to-day I am, therefore, 53.

"In 1847 my father died, and left very little behind him, except lawsuits, which, through inexperience
more than anything else, my mother and grandmother managed to lose.

"My education only then began, but until 12, when I had finally to enter college, I had it
pretty much my own way. That means I worked very little, and spent most of my time in the open
air, running about in our glorious southern fields, and learning how to love and admire nature.

"At college I studied with varying success.

"What I liked best were mathematics and science. I hated Greek and Latin.

"It was during the last year of my college life that I made the acquaintance of two young fellows
who may have been instrumental in making of me what I am now. As we had pretty much the same
tastes it was our passion, whenever we could indulge in it, to run out in the fields, get on
the banks of a stream, and for hours, under the shade of some tree, read the books of fiction
which came to our possession. After each book had been gone through, we discussed its merits,
chapter by chapter, studied the characters and the plot; all this more from a metaphysical
than a literary point of view.

"I left college in 1848, and came to Paris to get work, in order to help my mother. I found
a situation which I soon had to give up, and, till 1861, I went through all the hardships that
a destitute young man can undergo in Paris.

"Often have I spent in my attic the best part of the day, lying in bed to keep warm.

"Although, as you see, I am better off now, I often look back upon that time regretting that
it cannot return.

"Voyez vous, privations and suffering were my lot, but I had in me the fire of youth. I had
health, hope, unbounded confidence in myself, and ambition.

"Ah oui! It was a glorious time. I remember how I used to write for hours and hours in my bed;
how everything was then fresh to me, how my inexperience made me look hopefully forward. Enfin,
life seemed bright, beautiful, and cheerful.

"After all, I really think hope is a higher satisfaction than possession.

"But I stray from the subject.

"Let me see, you left me in bed trying to get warm, and waiting for someone to provide the
necessary number of coppers for a dinner.

"In 1861, I at last found a sufficiently remunerative situation at Hachette's, the publishers.

"I began at 200 francs a month. I did my work so thoroughly that I was soon raised. After a
certain time I was placed in the advertising department, and there came in contact with the
writers and newspaper men, who, in my first literary efforts, gave me a helping hand.

"During my stay in that office, I never ceased writing.

"You must know that I was all my life a very hard and conscientious worker.

"After my day's work at the office, I used to read and write for hours at home by candlelight.
In fact, the habit of writing at night became so inveterate that, long afterwards, when I had
time in the day, I pulled down the blinds in my room and lit the lamp in order to work.

"Towards this epoch I met my two college friends again. One had gained some notoriety as a
painter, the other was a student at the ecole polytechnique. We resumed our rambles in the
woods and our discussions. This, I am convinced, was of great use to me, as our different ways
of looking at things enabled me to judge of characters, and to appreciate differing opinions.

"Before I left college, viz., when I was 17, I had written the 'Contes à Ninon.' These I retouched
a little, and determined to try my luck as a writer with them.

"As usual, with young and unknown writers, publishers received me and politely returned my
manuscript. I tried my employer, but, although he encouraged me, and showed his sense of appreciation,
by giving me a more responsible position, he refused to publish my story. Finally, I presented
it to Mr. Hetzel, and to my indescribable joy he accepted it.

"The book was very favourably reviewed, but sold very poorly.

"Soon afterwards, I began contributing to the Vie Parisienne and the Petit Journal, and thus
got launched in journalism.

"As my evenings alone did not enable me to do all the work I had in hand, I resigned my situation
in 1867, and devoted myself exclusively to literature.

"This did not improve my position, and I was obliged, for a certain time, to suffer new hardships
and privations.

"It is needless to follow my career step by step. You know what I am now--you see I have succeeded."

"Well, mon cher maitre, not many men can boast of a success equal to yours. Indeed, there is
evidence enough in this very room of that success."

"That implies, of course, that you think I have an enormous account at the bank. You are mistaken.
Every centime I get comes from the sale of my books, the rights of translation, etc. My royalty
is 60 centimes per volume. This brings me about 300,000 francs a year, and I am not a man to
economise. All this furniture, and the articles you see scattered about, I have slowly accumulated.
I began to purchase with the first economies I ever made.

"This passion which obliged me frequently to change residences in order to find room for the
ever increasing number of objects was acquired by me through reading Victor Hugo in my childhood.
It is not so ardent now, I regret to say."

As he got up to show me round, the light fell full on his face. I thought I noticed a look
of melancholy, and made a remark to that effect.

With a sigh he replied, "Mon cher monsieur, I repeat I always think with pleasure of my garret.
I had then no cares. I was, what I call, absolutely independent."

"But in what way are you dependent now?"

"More than you think. I was then my own reader and my only critic. I lived in my writings,
and thought them perfect. Since then I belong to the public, upon whose judgment my success
depends, upon whose appreciation my reward lies. Do not imagine that I do not frequently suffer
deeply, that I am not wounded, and that I do not feel mortified and become discouraged by the
misinterpretation of my motives. These are passing clouds, but they are not pleasant, I can
assure you."

As he was unburdening his sorrows, we visited the apartment. It would be impossible to describe
it in the short space of an article, as I must admit I seldom found such a mass, and at the
same time such a variety, of objects collected.

The accompanying photos will be more eloquent than my pen.

Taste presides in everything; choice, disposal, grouping, and colouring. The southern nature
of the host reveals itself in its love for bright colours, education and refinement in the
subdued tones and harmonious ensemble.

He did not hesitate to show me everything; unfortunately, however, had I seen less, I would
have remembered more.

As we walked back to the studio I returned to the previous subject, and asked him whether,
as was generally supposed, he dashed through his books after a painstaking preliminary work.

He denied this.

"It is an error; I work very hard."

"What way do you proceed then, cher maitre?"

