James Freeman                    An Arizona rancher
Jess                                   His daughter
Norma                             Her little sister
Steve Hammond, An outlaw, known as "Aravaipa Steve"
Dr. Turner                            The physician
     The sheriff
     The sheriff's deputy
     Cowboys, citizens, etc., in 1, 19, 21, and 23.

SCENARIO, OR CONTINUITY OF SCENES

1--Outside sheriff's office, main street of town--

     One or two cowboys and several other citizens standing
     around talking earnestly. Sheriff comes out of open door
     with hand-lettered placard. He tacks it up beside a notice
     of an auction sale of stock, close to door. Draws attention
     of bystanders, who crowd around to read.

On screen. Notice--

     $5,000 REWARD!

     FOR THE CAPTURE OF STEPHEN HAMMOND, BETTER KNOWN AS
     "ARAVAIPA STEVE." WE PREFER TO GET HIM ALIVE, AS HE
     MAY TELL WHAT HE DONE WITH THE PROSEEDS OF HIS LAST HOLD-UP.

Back to scene.

     The bystanders are obviously dissatisfied. They protest to
     sheriff, who shakes head emphatically.

Leader--

     "THE ONLY GOOD I KIN SAY O' HIM IS THAT HE AIN'T NO
     MURDERER. WE'LL HAVE NO LYNCHIN' WHILE I'M SHERIFF"

Back to scene.

     One of the cowboys gives the sheriff a strong argument, but
     he holds his ground and taps his badge significantly. They
     are still voicing their several opinions when scene ends.

2--Dr. Turner's office--

     Doctor lying on lounge, coat off, smoking. Turns eyes toward
     door and then springs up as James Freeman enters, showing
     great excitement and distress. Doctor asks what is wrong.
     Freeman makes excited reply, urging doctor to get ready and
     "come quick." Doctor compels him to speak more calmly and,
     when he knows just what is wrong and hears Norma's symptoms,
     he nods head and holds up hand, telling Freeman to sit down
     and be quiet while he prepares some medicine. He measures
     some drug from bottle in graduate and pours it into
     eight-ounce bottle. With this in hand he steps out of room.
     Freeman greatly agitated and anxious to start. Turner comes
     back almost immediately, just corking bottle. He slips it
     into pocket, picks up hat and medical case, then follows
     Freeman out of room.

3--Short exterior scene showing Freeman and Dr. Turner riding to ranch.

4--Bedroom in Freeman's ranch house. Shelf on wall on which are several photographs in frames.

     (Must be same as in scene 28.)

     Norma lying in bed, ill with fever. Dr. Turner bending over
     her. Freeman leaning over foot of bed watching anxiously.
     Jess stands beside little table in centre of room, on which
     are glasses, the medicine bottle, and the doctor's little
     case. Her grief very evident. Dr. Turner's face very grave
     as he turns away from bed. Freeman goes to him as he crosses
     to table beside Jess. Doctor addresses Freeman, speaking
     earnestly.

Leader--

     "WE MUST HAVE ICE FOR HER. IT'S TWENTY MILES TO MY TOWN AND
     FOURTEEN TO PINEDALE. START THERE AT ONCE, GET THE ICE, AND
     WE'LL SAVE HER YET"

Back to scene.

     Freeman realizes the importance of being able to procure ice
     as soon as possible. Starts to get ready, presently hurrying
     out of room. Doctor turns to Jess and gives her instructions
     as to administering the medicine, pointing to watch. She
     nods. Doctor takes last look at child, then walks out of
     room, Jess following.

5--Corner of ranch house, looking toward stables--

     Doctor comes out, followed by Jess. With a parting word, he
     rides away. A moment later Freeman comes from direction of
     stables driving buckboard. He says a few words to Jess, who
     assures him that she will be all right, and then he drives
     off rapidly. Jess re-enters house.

6--Exterior, supposedly at distance from but within sight of ranch--

     Steve Hammond rides slowly into picture, dismounts wearily,
     leans against horse as if much fatigued, looks about in all
     directions. Sees ranch house short distance away. Shows
     hesitation, then sudden resolution. Swings into saddle and
     rides out of picture.

7--Corner of ranch house, same as 5--

     Steve rides into picture in background, approaching
     cautiously. Leaves horse standing at short distance from
     house, ready for quick get-away. Creeps forward stealthily,
     gun in hand, ready. (If window between corner of house and
     door, passes beneath it stooping.) Reaches door and knocks.
     Hearing someone approaching, he holds gun out of sight
     behind back. Jess appears in doorway. Steve registers that
     he is impressed by girl's appearance. She, that he is a
     stranger. He asks for a drink of water. She goes in to get
     it. He quickly replaces gun in holster. Jess comes out with
     dipper of water; he drinks greedily, then sways weakly and
     drops to steps. Jess, seeing his exhaustion, shows sympathy.
     Asks if he is hungry. He looks up and nods. She looks at him
     a moment as if estimating his character and then asks him
     into the house. He holds back, hesitating a moment, then
     weakly follows her in.

8--Kitchen of ranch house--

     Jess places chair beside table and asks Steve to sit down.
     He watches her with evident but respectful admiration as she
     brings food and pours cup of coffee. She watches him
     sympathetically as he eats. Presently he looks up at her,
     then around, and points toward door. He questions her. She
     shakes head negatively, looking at him steadily.

Leader--

     "THE MEN ARE ALL AWAY. FATHER'S GONE TO GET ICE FOR MY SICK
     SISTER"

Back to scene.

     Jess watches him closely as she speaks. He shows only look
     of relief. He questions her again. She points to door
     leading to bedroom. He looks toward door and she crosses to
     it, pushing it softly open. She turns and signs for him to
     look inside. She herself stands in doorway as he passes her
     and goes into room.

9--Bedroom, same as 4--

     Steve moves past Jess into room, crossing to bedside.
     Genuine sympathy in his expression as he looks at child and
     notes her fevered condition. He places hand on child's
     forehead and shakes his head. Looks toward Jess, standing in
     doorway, then goes out following her back into--

10--Kitchen, same as 8--

     He sits down on chair; evidently he is greatly touched by
     the child's condition and Jess's helplessness. Suddenly he
     springs up excitedly and turns to Jess, speaking rapidly.

Leader--

     "THERE'S ICE NEARER THAN PINEDALE. WITH A SPARE HORSE, I'LL
     GET YOU PLENTY INSIDE OF AN HOUR"

Back to scene.

     Jess looks at him in astonishment and questions him. He
     emphatic in repeating what he has said. He asks about horse,
     pointing to outer door. As Jess leads way, Steve picks up
     hat and follows her out.

11--Exterior, at door of stable--

     Jess standing holding Steve's horse. Steve comes from stable
     leading another horse, with couple of large saddle-bags,
     pick, and short-handled shovel, on its back. He points to
     these and mounts his horse. Jess smiles gratefully, then
     looks grave again. He reaches down and just touches her
     reassuringly on the shoulder. Then he rides quickly away,
     leading the second horse, while Jess watches him for a
     moment, and then starts toward house.

12--Foothill trail--

     Steve riding up trail, disappearing round bend of hill.

13--Rocky portion of hillside showing entrance to sort of cave in side of cliff--

     Steve dismounts, ties both horses, takes pick and shovel
     from second horse, then goes forward and enters cave.

14--Interior of cave--

     Steve kneeling and removing large rocks from floor of cave.
     Rises, takes pick and makes good-sized hole in rocky
     ground, using both pick and shovel. Suddenly stops, kneels,
     works with hands a moment, rises, takes up pick and drives
     it into bottom of hole he has made. Throws pick down,
     kneels, holds up fair-sized piece of ice. Rises, runs out of
     cave. Back almost immediately with saddle-bags. Throws them
     down, takes up pick and starts to get out the ice.

15--Entrance to cave, same as 13--

     Steve just finishing loading horse with saddle-bags filled
     with ice. Secures pick and shovel across bags, mounts own
     horse and starts to ride away, leading second horse as
     before.

16--Ranch house, same as 5--

     Jess standing in doorway, great anxiety in face. Expression
     changes as she sees Steve ride up in background. He
     dismounts in front of door, takes saddle-bags from horse
     and, with Jess leading, goes into house.

17--Bedroom, same as 4--

     Steve is just making an ice-pack with a piece of flannel.
     Places it on child's head. He stands watching the child
     intently for a moment, then looks at the girl. Jess shows
     her gratitude very plainly. She holds out her hand. Steve
     starts to take it, then draws back sharply. Jess astonished,
     not understanding his reluctance. He hangs his head, but
     remains silent. Jess watches him for a moment and then turns
     away. She is standing by table which is close to the bed.
     As she turns she knocks over the bottle of medicine with one
     hand. It falls to floor and breaks, spilling on carpet. Jess
     shows utter consternation. Steve also distressed. Jess
     points to alarm clock standing on table, speaking to Steve
     excitedly. He greatly impressed by the gravity of the
     situation. She indicates that the doctor lives in the
     distant town. He nods, evidently trying to make up his mind
     what to do. Suddenly turns to Jess, looks straight into her
     eyes, then extends hand. She is puzzled, but takes proffered
     hand. Steve holds hers a moment and then drops it. He looks
     at her again and then hangs head, speaking with face
     averted.

Leader--

     "I'LL SEE THAT YOU GET MORE MEDICINE ALL RIGHT; BUT I
     WON'T BRING IT. OVER IN TOWN THEY CALL ME 'ARAVAIPA STEVE'"

Back to scene.

     As Steve speaks, Jess looks at him horror-stricken, and
     shrinks, hiding face in hands. Steve watches her with
     expression of mingled anguish and remorse. Suddenly Jess
     draws herself erect, indicating that, no matter who or what
     he may be, she thanks him for what he has done for her and
     appreciates it. Extends her hand, looking him full in the
     face. He hesitates, then seizes her hand in both of his and
     grips it. She does not move--simply continues to gaze
     straight into his eyes. Steve drops her hand and reaches
     for his hat. She watches him as he prepares to leave. Then,
     suddenly, she shows that she fully realizes what it means to
     him to go for the medicine. She springs to his side and
     seizes his arm. Pointing--as if toward town--she indicates
     that he will be arrested the moment he appears there. He
     nods head resignedly. She points to the sick child. Then she
     reaches out to take his hat, shaking her head. "You must not
     go; I can't forget what you have already done for her." He
     looks at her a moment, shows that he realizes the
     consequences, then takes his hat from her, his face showing
     strong determination. He picks up the upper portion of the
     broken medicine bottle from the floor; then points to the
     child on the bed.

Leader--

     "THE CHILD'S SAFETY IS WHAT I'M THINKIN' OF. THEY'LL GET ME
     SOONER OR LATER ANYHOW. I'M GOIN'!"

Back to scene.

     Steve turns quickly toward door. Jess speaks and he turns to
     face her. She approaches slowly and stops in front of him,
     looks steadily into his eyes for a moment, then impulsively
     holds out both her hands. He seizes them, holds them a
     moment, then, as she drops her eyes, he lowers her hands
     slowly, steps backward, turns, and exit quickly. She looks
     up as he passes out of door, then drops on her knees beside
     bed and, with one hand reaching out to the child, looks
     upward as if in prayer.

18--Exterior--

     Steve riding hard into town.

19--On the outskirts of the town--

     Steve rides into picture, going at same speed as before. Man
     (not cowboy, but carrying gun in holster) recognizes him as
     he approaches. Draws gun, stands at side of road, and, as
     Steve comes close raises gun and calls on him to halt. Steve
     only bends low and gives the horse the spurs, dashing past
     at full gallop. Man raises his gun and fires after him, then
     shows by his look of chagrin that he has not stopped him.

20--Looking back over same road, but at point farther on toward town--

     Steve rides into picture, his left arm hanging limp, holding
     gun in right hand, prepared to use it rather than stop;
     reins hanging on horse's neck. He takes reins in right
     hand--after restoring gun to holster--and rides on.

21--Exterior of doctor's house, with sign, "Dr. Turner"--

     Steve rides into picture, pulls up, dismounts, and with an
     expression of pain takes hold of wounded left arm with right
     hand, gripping it as if to ease pain. Runs up steps and
     knocks at door. As he is facing door, another man sees and
     recognizes him. This man is not armed, and he merely shakes
     fist at Steve behind the outlaw's back, then passes out of
     picture. Dr. Turner comes to door, and falls back astounded
     as he recognizes "Aravaipa Steve." "You! What do you want
     here?" Then he sees the wounded arm, and points to it. Steve
     shakes head emphatically and proceeds to tell what has
     happened at the ranch. As he finishes, the doctor looks him
     over from head to foot, then holds out his hand, which the
     outlaw grasps silently. Dr. Turner beckons him into the
     house; but just as Steve is about to follow the doctor in,
     the man who saw him knock on the door returns with a party
     of ten or a dozen citizens and cowboys. Half a dozen point
     guns at Steve and he throws up his right hand in obedience
     to their command, indicating that his left is injured. The
     doctor tries to explain, but they wave him back. Steve turns
     to doctor and tells him to hurry and get the medicine off to
     the sick child. Doctor nods. Believing that the outlaw will
     be taken to the sheriff, he goes in to prepare the medicine.
     Steve is led away by the crowd.

22--Corner of ranch house, same as 5--

     Doctor rides into picture, pulling up in front of door. As
     he calls out, Jess comes to door followed by her father. Dr.
     Turner takes bottle of medicine from pocket of his coat and
     hands it to Jess. Jess hands it to father and turns to
     doctor again. She is excited and obviously much distressed
     at the thought of what may have happened to Steve. Questions
     the doctor anxiously. At his reply she shows signs of
     breaking into tears. Then turns to her father.

Leader--

     "I FEAR THAT THE MOB WILL TAKE HIM FROM THE SHERIFF. FOR THE
     SAKE OF ALL HE HAS DONE FOR US, RIDE BACK TO PROTECT HIM"

Back to scene.

     Freeman, knowing what Steve has done, looks very grave. He
     speaks to doctor, who nods head. Then he turns to Jess,
     signifies his intention of riding to town at once, and tells
     her to attend to Norma, giving her the medicine. The doctor
     dismounts, dashes into house, and returns almost
     immediately. He indicates that the child is already somewhat
     improved. He mounts, and with a parting word to the girl,
     both men ride rapidly out of picture.

23--Outside sheriff's office, same as 1--

     Mob of cowboys and citizens talking excitedly and crowding
     in front of closed door. Evidently all are of the opinion
     that Steve should be "strung up." They cease talking and
     turn, looking up street. Dr. Turner and Freeman ride up and
     dismount. They force their way through crowd and approach
     door of the sheriff's office. They knock twice, but door
     does not open. Freeman calls loudly to those inside, while
     Dr. Turner faces the mob and warns them to keep their
     distance when the door is opened. Presently door opens,
     sheriff and his deputy appearing, with guns drawn. Freeman
     quickly tells them what they want and he and doctor pass
     inside. Mob becomes very demonstrative now.

24--Interior of sheriff's office. Door at left, closest to working-line, leads to street. Door
at back of room, when opened, shows exterior backing--

     Enter Dr. Turner and Freeman. Sheriff and deputy step back
     as they enter and bar door the moment they have come in.
     Steve sits on chair beside table, handcuffed. His face shows
     only a complete resignation to his fate. He is neither
     excited nor indifferent. Doctor speaks to sheriff, who nods.
     Doctor goes to Steve with deputy, who unlocks handcuffs.
     Doctor quickly examines Steve's wounded arm, then binds it
     up. Meantime the sheriff is listening to Freeman, who
     tells him of all Steve has done for him, in helping to save
     the life of his child. Sheriff plainly much impressed. Looks
     across at Steve and shakes head, realizing his duty and yet
     filled with sympathy for the outlaw. Freeman continues to
     plead with him. Doctor finishes working with Steve and looks
     across at them. Sheriff and deputy whirl round and draw guns
     again as all hear sound of heavy blows on street door. (If
     position of door in set permits, show door shaken as if by
     blows upon it.) All realize that the mob means business. On
     back wall is reward placard similar to one posted outside
     (same card). Sheriff, turning to Steve, points to this.
     Steve nods. Sheriff calls attention of all to back door.
     Then, facing Steve again, he indicates, "If I let you go
     that way, will you live honestly hereafter?" Steve looks at
     him a moment, then crosses to placard and pointing to words
     proclaiming reward for "Aravaipa Steve," passes other hand
     in front of eyes, as if in disgust at what he has been, then
     hangs head. Sheriff watches him a moment, then holds out his
     hand. Steve grasps it and turns to Freeman and Dr. Turner.
     As deputy turns toward street door, hearing more knocking
     upon it, Freeman and doctor both shake hands with Steve,
     sheriff quietly opens back door, and Steve, after hesitating
     a moment, slips out. Sheriff bars back door and, turning
     around, runs across to street door and shouts to crowd on
     outside, haranguing them to gain time.

25--Rear of sheriff's office, showing corner of building and side wall, looking toward street.
Several horses are tied all along side of wall, out of sight of the mob in front of building--

     Steve, leaving door, which is just closing, creeps up to
     nearest horse, unties it, and leads it away from building
     (toward camera). Then he mounts and dashes away, out of
     picture.

26--Interior of sheriff's office, same as 24--

     Sheriff, smiling at others in room, still arguing with crowd
     outside. Deputy, Freeman and Dr. Turner, also smiling, stand
     in center of room.

27--Front of ranch house, same as 5--

     Steve rides up and dismounts, calling out to Jess. She
     presently appears in doorway. On seeing him safe, her face
     shows intense relief and thankfulness. Then she realizes
     that he is not yet out of danger. She points toward town. He
     indicates that the horse he has ridden belongs to someone in
     town. He takes money from pocket and hands it to her,
     indicating that he wishes her to give it to the owner of the
     horse. She assents. Steve then points inside. Jess invites
     him to follow her in. He goes up steps after her.

28--Bedroom, same as 4--

     Jess enters, followed by Steve. He goes across to bed and
     bends over Norma, who is sleeping quietly. Turning around,
     he sees the photographs on the shelf on wall, Jess's picture
     among them. He looks at her as if hesitating to speak, then,
     pointing to her picture, asks if he may take it with him.
     She is a trifle confused at first; then, realizing the
     change that has taken place in the man, she takes it down
     and is about to hand it to him, when he takes piece of
     pencil from pocket of vest and hands it to her, asking her
     to write her name on it. Jess looks at him, then takes
     pencil and writes on back of photo.

29--Bust of Jess's right hand holding photograph, showing back, on which is written:

     WITH THE SYMPATHY AND BEST WISHES OF JESS FREEMAN. I SHOULD
     LIKE TO KNOW, A YEAR FROM NOW, HOW YOU ARE GETTING ON.

30--Back to 28--

     Jess hands the photograph to Steve. He glances at what is
     written and looks at her as if longing to speak, but merely
     takes her hand and looks his great gratitude, and
     determination to atone for the past, urged on by her
     encouragement. Then he turns to door and she follows him out
     of room.

31--Front of ranch, same as 5--

     Steve mounted ready to ride away. He holds photograph in
     left hand, still bandaged. He puts out right hand again and
     takes Jess's, in a parting handshake. Then he puts photo in
     inner pocket of vest, and with a last word and a smile of
     gratitude, rides quickly away. Jess watches him ride out of
     sight, then sits on steps and looks in direction he has
     gone, starting to weep softly.

Leader--

     A YEAR LATER.

32--Kitchen, same as 8--

     Jess laying table for meal. Norma assisting her (or, if a
     young child is used, playing). Freeman enters from outer
     door, as if just returning from town. He carries bundles,
     etc. Puts these down, takes letters from pocket, hands two
     to Jess. She looks at one and lays it carelessly on table.
     After a glance at the other she signifies, "It must be from
     him!" Freeman and child do not observe her expression. She
     opens letter and reads:

On screen. Letter--

     Dear Miss Freeman,

     I am writing this from Winslow--it's as near to your home as
     I care to go. But I've got a good position in San Francisco,
     and thank God I'm living honestly where nobody knows my past
     record. I'd give anything to see you again. Do you think
     your father would bring you on a visit?

     Gratefully yours,

     Stephen Hammond.

Back to scene.

     Jess's face lights up gladly. She goes to her father and
     gives him letter, which he reads. He looks at her narrowly.
     She hangs her head in some confusion. He stands for a moment
     in deep thought. Then he takes Jess's hands and, as she
     looks straight into his eyes, he nods his head, draws her to
     him and kisses her. Norma comes up and puts her arms round
     her father as he and Jess stand there. Jess kneels and takes
     Norma in her arms.

CHAPTER VI

THE MECHANICAL PREPARATION OF THE SCRIPT

Any successful photoplaywright will testify that the proper preparation of the photoplay script
has much to do with its being accepted, especially if more than the mere synopsis is offered.

At first this may seem to be an extreme statement, but its truth will become more and more
evident as we proceed. Furthermore, its importance should be accepted by writers early in the
work because every stage of photoplay writing has its direct bearing upon, and looks toward,
the preparation of the script. For this reason the present chapter is introduced at this point,
though in actual time-sequence the preparation of the manuscript in its final form will usually
come after all its several parts have been considered, blocked out, and arranged. It will be
highly important, therefore, to review this chapter after finishing the sections of this volume
which deal in particular with the several parts of the photoplay.

It is to be regretted, let us reiterate, that so much has been said, by manufacturers and others,
to the effect that no literary training is necessary in order to write salable photoplays,
for, as a result, countless absolutely "impossible" scripts are constantly pouring into the
editors' offices--impossible, in a great many cases, not because of the lack of idea, for very
often the illiterate writer has both a vivid imagination and the power to use it, but because
frequently the good idea is expressed in such unintelligible language, and with such execrable
spelling and hopelessly incorrect punctuation, that the thread of the plot, its meaning, and
values, cannot be grasped by the editor. Even when the story itself is not utterly lost to
the script reader, he is too busy a man to wade through it bit by bit, struggling to make something
out of a jumble of confusing words. The demand for good scripts is greater than the supply--but
the supply is increasing, and the standard is rising. This means that although there are dozens--to
put it mildly--of men and women entering the field each week, easily three-fourths of these
brand themselves as hopelessly unqualified when they drop their first script into the mail-box.

The repeated failures of the unprepared have given rise to the rumor that only the scripts
of favored writers are read in editorial offices. The old trick of placing small pieces of
paper between the sheets, in order to prove whether or not the script was read through, is
as popular today as it was twenty years ago with story writers. The gentleman who has the first
reading of all the scripts received by a certain company called the attention of one of the
present authors to just such a script only recently. What was the result? Some of the minute
pieces of paper fell out the moment the script was taken from the envelope for examination.
That was enough. The script was almost immediately placed in another envelope and returned
to the writer--with a rejection slip. Unfair treatment of the writer? Not at all! Following
the discovery of the concealed particles of paper, a glance at the first page was sufficient
to convince the editor that it was the work of another amateur who was foolish enough to add
to a miserably prepared script the proof that he doubted the honesty of the editor to whom
he had addressed his offering.

