With his own hand he made the model of the Chapter-house of S. Croce in Florence, a varied
and very beautiful work, for the family of the Pazzi; and the model of the house of the Busini,
for the habitation of two families; and also the model of the house and loggia of the Innocenti,
the vaulting of which was executed without framework, a method that is still followed by all
in our own day. It is said that Filippo was summoned to Milan in order to make the model of
a fortress for Duke Filippo Maria, and that he left this building of the Innocenti in charge
of Francesco della Luna, who was very much his friend. This Francesco made an architrave-ornament
running downward from above, which is wrong according to the rules of architecture. Wherefore
Filippo, on returning, reproved him for having done such a thing, and he answered that he copied
it from the Church of S. Giovanni, which is ancient. "There is one sole error," said Filippo,
"in that edifice, and thou hast followed it." The model of this building, by the hand of Filippo,
was for many years in the hands of the Guild of Por Santa Maria, being held in great account
because a part of the fabric was still unfinished; but it is now lost. He made the model of
the Abbey of the Canons-Regular of Fiesole, for Cosimo de' Medici, the architecture being ornate,
commodious, fanciful, and, in short, truly magnificent. The church is lofty, with the vaulting
barrel-shaped, and the sacristy, like all the rest of the monastery, has its proper conveniences.
But what is most important and most worthy of consideration is that, having to place that edifice
on the downward slope of that mountain and yet on the level, he availed himself of the part
below with great judgment, making therein cellars, wash-houses, bread-ovens, stables, kitchens,
rooms for storing firewood, and so many other conveniences, that it is not possible to see
anything better; and thus he laid the base of the edifice on the level. Wherefore he was afterwards
able to make the loggie, the refectory, the infirmary, the noviciate, the dormitory, and the
library, with the other principal rooms proper to a monastery, on one plane. All this was carried
out by the Magnificent Cosimo de' Medici at his own expense, partly through the piety that
he showed in all matters in connection with the Christian faith, and partly through the affection
that he bore to Don Timoteo da Verona, a most excellent preacher of that Order, whose conversation
he was so anxious to enjoy that he also built many rooms for himself in that monastery and
lived there at his own convenience. On this edifice Cosimo spent one hundred thousand crowns,
as may be seen in an inscription. Filippo also designed the model for the fortress of Vico
Pisano; and he designed the old Citadel of Pisa, and fortified the Ponte a Mare, and also gave
the design for the new Citadel, closing the bridge with the two towers. In like manner, he
made the model for the fortress of the port of Pesaro. Returning to Milan, he made many designs
for the Duke, and some for the masters of the Duomo of that city.

The Church of S. Lorenzo had been begun in Florence at this time by order of the people of
that quarter, who had made the Prior superintendent of that building. This person made profession
of much knowledge in architecture, and was ever amusing himself therewith by way of pastime.
And they had already begun the building by making piers of brick, when Giovanni di Bicci de'
Medici, who had promised the people of that quarter and the Prior to have the sacristy and
a chapel made at his own expense, invited Filippo one morning to dine with him, and after much
discourse asked him what he thought of the beginning of S. Lorenzo. Filippo was constrained
by the entreaties of Giovanni to say what he thought, and being compelled to speak the truth,
he criticized it in many respects, as something designed by a person who had perchance more
learning than experience of buildings of that sort. Whereupon Giovanni asked Filippo if something
better and more beautiful could be made: to which Filippo replied, "Without a doubt, and I
marvel that you, being the chief in the enterprise, do not devote a few thousand crowns to
building a body of a church with all its parts worthy of the place and of so many noble owners
of tombs, who, seeing it begun, will proceed with their chapels to the best of their power;
above all, because there remains no memorial of us save walls, which bear testimony for hundreds
and thousands of years to those who built them." Giovanni, encouraged by the words of Filippo,
determined to build the sacristy and the principal chapel, together with the whole body of
the church, although only seven families were willing to co-operate, since the others had not
the means: these seven were the Rondinelli, Ginori, Dalla Stufa, Neroni, Ciai, Marignolli,
Martelli, and Marco di Luca, and these chapels were to be made in the cross. The sacristy was
the first part to be undertaken, and afterwards the church, little by little. The other chapels
along the length of the church came to be granted afterwards, one by one, to other citizens
of the quarter. The roofing of the sacristy was not finished when Giovanni de' Medici passed
to the other life, leaving behind him his son Cosimo, who, having a greater spirit than his
father and delighting in memorials, caused this one to be carried on. It was the first edifice
that he erected, and he took so great delight therein that from that time onwards up to his
death he was for ever building. Cosimo pressed this work forward with greater ardour, and while
one part was being begun, he would have another finished. Looking on the work as a pastime,
he was almost always there, and it was his solicitude that caused Filippo to finish the sacristy,
and Donato to make the stucco-work, with the stone ornaments for those little doors and the
doors of bronze. In the middle of the sacristy, where the priests don their vestments, he had
a tomb made for his father Giovanni, under a great slab of marble supported by four little
columns; and in the same place he made a tomb for his own family, separating that of the women
from that of the men. In one of the two little rooms that are on either side of the altar in
the said sacristy he made a well in one corner, with a place for a lavatory. In short, everything
in this fabric is seen to have been built with much judgment. Giovanni and the others had arranged
to make the choir in the middle, below the tribune; but Cosimo changed this at the wish of
Filippo, who made the principal chapel--which had been designed at first as a smaller recess--so
much greater, that he was able to make the choir therein, as it is at present. This being finished,
there remained to be made the central tribune and the rest of the church; but this tribune,
with the rest, was not vaulted until after the death of Filippo. This church is one hundred
and forty-four braccia in length, and many errors are seen therein, one being that the columns
are placed on the level of the ground instead of being raised on a dado, which should have
been as high as the level of the bases of the pilasters which stand on the steps, so that,
as one sees the pilasters shorter than the columns, the whole of that work appears badly proportioned.
All this was caused by the counsels of his successors, who were jealous of his name and had
made models in opposition to his during his lifetime. For these they had been put to shame
with sonnets written by Filippo, and after his death they took vengeance on him in this manner,
not only in this work but in all those that remained to be carried out by them. He left the
model for the presbytery of the priests of S. Lorenzo, and part of the building finished, wherein
he made the cloister one hundred and forty-four braccia in length.

The while that this edifice was building, Cosimo de' Medici determined to have a palace made
for himself, and therefore revealed his intention to Filippo, who, putting aside every other
care, made him a great and very beautiful model for the said palace, which he wished to place
opposite to S. Lorenzo, on the Piazza, entirely isolated on every side. In this the art of
Filippo had achieved so much that Cosimo, thinking it too sumptuous and great a fabric, refrained
from putting it into execution, more to avoid envy than by reason of the cost. While the model
was making, Filippo used to say that he thanked his fortune for such an opportunity, seeing
that he had such a house to build as he had desired for many years, and because he had come
across a man who had the wish and the means to have it built. But, on learning afterwards the
determination of Cosimo not to put this project into execution, in disdain he broke the design
into a thousand pieces. Deeply did Cosimo repent, after he had made that other palace, that
he had not adopted the design of Filippo; and this Cosimo was wont to say that he had never
spoken to a man of greater intelligence and spirit than Filippo. He also made the model of
the most bizarre Temple of the Angeli, for the family of the Scolari; but it remained unfinished
and in the condition wherein it is now to be seen, because the Florentines spent the money
which lay in the Monte for this purpose on certain requirements of their city, or, as some
say, in the war that they waged formerly against the people of Lucca, wherein they also spent
the money that had been left in like manner by Niccolò da Uzzano for building the Sapienza,
as it has been related at length in another place. And in truth, if this Temple of the Angeli
had been finished according to the model of Brunellesco, it would have been one of the rarest
things in Italy, for the reason that what is seen of it cannot be sufficiently extolled. The
drawings by the hand of Filippo for the ground-plan and for the completion of this octagonal
temple are in our book, with other designs by the same man.

Filippo also designed a rich and magnificent palace for Messer Luca Pitti at a place called
Ruciano, without the Porta a San Niccolò in Florence, but this failed by a great measure to
equal the one that he began in Florence for the same man, carrying it to the second range of
windows, with such grandeur and magnificence that nothing more rare or more magnificent has
yet been seen in the Tuscan manner. The doors of this palace are double, with the opening sixteen
braccia in length and eight in breadth; the windows both of the first and second range are
in every way similar to these doors, and the vaultings double; and the whole edifice is so
masterly in design, that any more beautiful or more magnificent architecture cannot be imagined.
The builder of this palace was Luca Fancelli, an architect of Florence, who erected many buildings
for Filippo, and one for Leon Batista Alberti, namely, the principal chapel of the Nunziata
in Florence, by order of Lodovico Gonzaga, who took him to Mantua, where he made many works
and married a wife and lived and died, leaving heirs who are still called the Luchi from his
name. This palace was bought not many years ago by the most Illustrious Lady Leonora di Toledo,
Duchess of Florence, on the advice of the most Illustrious Lord Duke Cosimo, her consort; and
she increased the grounds all round it so greatly that she made a very large garden, partly
on the plain, partly on the top of the hill, and partly on the slope, filling it with all the
sorts of trees both of the garden and of the forest, most beautifully laid out, and making
most delightful little groves with innumerable sorts of evergreens, which flourish in every
season; to say nothing of the waters, the fountains, the conduits, the fishponds, the fowling-places,
the espaliers, and an infinity of other things worthy of a magnanimous prince, about which
I will be silent, because it is not possible, without seeing them, ever to imagine their grandeur
and their beauty. And in truth Duke Cosimo could have chanced upon nothing more worthy of the
power and greatness of his mind than this palace, which might truly appear to have been erected
by Messer Luca Pitti, from the design of Brunellesco, for his most Illustrious Excellency.
Messer Luca left it unfinished by reason of his cares in connection with the State, and his
heirs, having no means wherewith to complete it, and being unwilling to let it go to ruin,
were content to make it over to the Duchess, who was ever spending money on it as long as she
lived, but not so much as to give hope that it would be soon finished. It is true, indeed,
according to what I once heard, that she was minded to spend 40,000 ducats in one year alone,
if she lived, in order to see it, if not finished, at least well on the way to completion.
And because the model of Filippo has not been found, his Excellency has caused Bartolommeo
Ammanati, an excellent sculptor and architect, to make another, according to which the work
is being carried on; and a great part of the courtyard is already completed in rustic work,
similar to the exterior. And in truth, if one considers the grandeur of this work, one marvels
how the mind of Filippo could conceive so great an edifice, which is truly magnificent not
only in the external façade, but also in the distribution of all the apartments. I say nothing
of the view, which is most beautiful, and of the kind of theatre formed by the most lovely
hills that rise round the palace in the direction of the walls, because, as I have said, it
would take too long to try to describe them in full, nor could anyone, without seeing this
palace, imagine how greatly superior it is to any other royal edifice whatsoever.

It is also said that the machinery for the "Paradise" of S. Felice in Piazza, in the said city,
was invented by Filippo in order to hold the Representation, or rather, the Festival of the
Annunciation, in the manner wherein the Florentines were wont to hold it in that place in olden
times. This was truly something marvellous, demonstrating the genius and the industry of him
who was its inventor, for the reason that there was seen on high a Heaven full of living figures
in motion, with an infinity of lights appearing and disappearing almost in a flash. Now I do
not wish to grudge the labour of giving an exact description of the machinery of that engine,
seeing that it has all disappeared and that the men who could speak of it from personal knowledge
are dead, so that there is no hope of its being reconstructed, that place being inhabited no
longer by the Monks of Camaldoli, but by the Nuns of S. Pier Martire; and above all since the
one in the Carmine has been destroyed, because it was pulling down the rafters that support
the roof.

For this purpose, then, Filippo had suspended, between two of the beams that supported the
roof of the church, the half of a globe in the shape of an empty bowl, or rather, of a barber's
basin, with the rim downwards; this half-globe was made of thin and light planks fastened to
a star of iron which radiated round the curve of the said half-globe, and these planks narrowed
towards the point of equilibrium in the centre, where there was a great ring of iron round
which there radiated the iron star that secured the planks of the half-globe. The whole mass
was upheld by a stout beam of pine-wood, well shod with iron, which lay across the timbers
of the roof; and to this beam was fastened the ring that sustained and balanced the half-globe,
which from the ground truly appeared like a Heaven. At the foot of the inner edge it had certain
wooden brackets, large enough for one person to stand on and no more, and at the height of
one braccio there was also an iron fastening, likewise on the inner edge; on each of these
brackets there was placed a boy about twelve years old, who was girt round with the iron fastening
one braccio and a half high, in such wise that he could not have fallen down even if he had
wanted to. These boys, who were twelve in all, were placed on the brackets, as it has been
said, and dressed like angels, with gilded wings and hair made of gold thread; and when it
was time they took one another by the hand and waved their arms, so that they appeared to be
dancing, and the rather as the half-globe was ever moving and turning round. Within it, above
the heads of the angels, were three circles or garlands of lights, contained in certain little
lamps that could not be overturned. From the ground these lights appeared like stars, and the
brackets, being covered with cotton-wool, appeared like clouds. From the aforesaid ring there
issued a very stout bar of iron, which had at the end another ring, to which there was fastened
a thin rope reaching to the ground, as it will be told later. The said stout bar of iron had
eight arms, spreading out in an arc large enough to fill the space within the hollow half-globe,
and at the end of each arm there was a stand about the size of a trencher; on each stand was
a boy about nine years old, well secured by an iron soldered on to the upper part of the arm,
but loosely enough to allow him to turn in every direction. These eight angels, supported by
the said iron, were lowered from the space within the half-globe by means of a small windlass
that was unwound little by little, to a depth of eight braccia below the level of the square
beams that support the roof, in such a manner that they were seen without concealing the view
of the angels who were round the inner edge of the half-globe. In the midst of this cluster
of eight angels--for so was it rightly called--was a mandorla of copper, hollow within, wherein
were many holes showing certain little lamps fixed on iron bars in the form of tubes; which
lamps, on the touching of a spring which could be pressed down, were all hidden within the
mandorla of copper, whereas, when the spring was not pressed down, all the lamps could be seen
alight through some holes therein. When the cluster of angels had reached its place, this mandorla,
which was fastened to the aforesaid little rope, was lowered very gradually by the unwinding
of the rope with another little windlass, and arrived at the platform where the Representation
took place; and on this platform, precisely on the spot where the mandorla was to rest, there
was a raised place in the shape of a throne with four steps, in the centre of which there was
a hole wherein the iron point of the mandorla stood upright. Below the said throne was a man
who, when the mandorla had reached its place, made it fast with a bolt without being seen,
so that it stood firmly on its base. Within the mandorla was a youth about fifteen years of
age in the guise of an angel, girt round the middle with an iron, and secured by a bolt to
the foot of the mandorla in a manner that he could not fall; and to the end that he might be
able to kneel, the said iron was divided into three parts, whereof one part entered readily
into another as he knelt. Thus, when the cluster of angels had descended and the mandorla was
resting on the throne, the man who fixed the mandorla with the bolt also unbolted the iron
that supported the angel; whereupon he issued forth and walked across the platform, and, having
come to where the Virgin was, saluted her and made the Annunciation. He then returned into
the mandorla, and the lights, which had gone out on his issuing forth, being rekindled, the
iron that supported him was once more bolted by the man who was concealed below, the bolt that
held the mandorla firm was removed, and it was drawn up again; while the singing of the angels
in the cluster, and of those in the Heaven, who kept circling round, made it appear truly a
Paradise, and the rather because, in addition to the said choir of angels and to the cluster,
there was a God the Father on the outer edge of the globe, surrounded by angels similar to
those named above and supported by irons, in such wise that the Heaven, the God the Father,
the cluster, and the mandorla, with innumerable lights and very sweet music, truly represented
Paradise. In addition to this, in order to be able to open and close that Heaven, Filippo had
made two great doors, each five braccia both in length and breadth, which had rollers of iron,
or rather, of copper, in certain grooves running horizontally; and these grooves were oiled
in a manner that when a thin rope, which was on either side, was pulled by means of a little
windlass, any one could open or close the Heaven at his pleasure, the two parts of the door
coming together or drawing apart horizontally along the grooves. And these two doors, made
thus, served for two purposes: when they were moved, being heavy, they made a noise like thunder;
and when they were closed, they formed a platform for the apparelling of the angels and for
the making of the other preparations which it was necessary to carry out within. These engines,
made thus, together with many others, were invented by Filippo, although others maintain that
they had been invented long before. However this may be, it was well to speak of them, seeing
that they have gone completely out of use.

But to return to Filippo himself; his renown and his name had grown so great that he was sent
for from far distant places by all who wished to erect buildings, in their desire to have designs
and models by the hand of so great a man; and to this end the most powerful means and friendships
were employed. Wherefore the Marquis of Mantua, among others, desiring to have him, wrote with
great insistence to the Signoria of Florence, by whom he was sent to that city, where he gave
designs for dykes on the Po and certain other works according to the pleasure of that Prince,
who treated him very lovingly, being wont to say that Florence was as worthy to have Filippo
as a citizen as he was to have so noble and beautiful a city for his birthplace. In Pisa, likewise,
Count Francesco Sforza and Niccolò da Pisa, being surpassed by him in the making of certain
fortifications, commended him in his presence, saying that if every State possessed a man like
Filippo it would be possible to live in security without arms. In Florence, also, Filippo gave
the design for the house of the Barbadori, near the tower of the Rossi in the Borgo San Jacopo,
but it was not put into execution; and he also made the design for the house of the Giuntini
on the Piazza d'Ognissanti, on the Arno. Afterwards, the Captains of the Guelph party in Florence,
wishing to build an edifice containing a hall and an audience-chamber for that body, gave the
commission to Francesco della Luna, who began the work, and he had already raised it to the
height of ten braccia above the ground, making many errors therein, when it was put into the
hands of Filippo, who brought the said palace to that magnificent form which we see. In this
work he had to compete with the said Francesco, who was favoured by many. Even so did he spend
his whole life, competing now with one man and now with another; for many were ever making
war against him and harassing him, and very often seeking to gain honour for themselves with
his designs, so that he was reduced in the end to showing nothing and trusting no one. The
hall of this palace is no longer used by the said Captains of the Guelphs, because the flood
of the year 1557 did so great damage to the papers of the Monte, that the Lord Duke Cosimo,
for the greater security of the said papers, which are of the greatest importance, removed
them to the said hall together with the institution itself. And to the end that the old staircase
of this palace might serve for the said body of Captains--who gave up that hall in favour of
the Monte and retired to another part of that palace--Giorgio Vasari was commissioned by his
Excellency to make the very commodious staircase that now ascends to the said hall of the Monte.
In like manner, from a design by the same man there was made a coffer-work ceiling which was
placed, after the plans of Filippo, on certain fluted pillars of grey-stone.

One year the Lenten sermons in S. Spirito had been preached by Maestro Francesco Zoppo, who
was then very dear to the people of Florence, and he had strongly recommended the claims of
that convent, of the school for youths, and particularly of the church, which had been burnt
down about that time. Whereupon the chief men of that quarter, Lorenzo Ridolfi, Bartolommeo
Corbinelli, Neri di Gino Capponi, and Goro di Stagio Dati, with very many other citizens, obtained
an order from the Signoria for the rebuilding of the Church of S. Spirito, and made Stoldo
Frescobaldi provveditore. This man, by reason of the interest that he had in the old church,
the principal chapel and the high-altar of which belonged to his house, took very great pains
therewith; nay, at the beginning, before the money had been collected from the taxes imposed
on the owners of burial-places and chapels, he spent many thousands of crowns of his own, for
which he was repaid.

Now, after the matter had been discussed, Filippo was sent for and asked to make a model with
all the features, both useful and honourable, that might be possible and suitable to a Christian
church. Whereupon he urged strongly that the ground-plan of that edifice should be turned right
round, because he greatly desired that the square should extend to the bank of the Arno, to
the end that all those who passed that way from Genoa, from the Riviera, from the Lunigiana,
and from the districts of Pisa and Lucca, might see the magnificence of that building. But
since certain citizens objected, refusing to have their houses pulled down, the desire of Filippo
did not take effect. He made the model of the church, therefore, with that of the habitation
of the monks, in the form wherein it stands to-day. The length of the church was one hundred
and sixty-one braccia, and the width fifty-four braccia, and it was so well planned, both in
the ordering of the columns and in the rest of the ornaments, that it would be impossible to
make a work richer, more lovely, or more graceful than that one. And in truth, but for the
malevolence of those who are ever spoiling the beautiful beginnings of any work in order to
appear to have more understanding than others, this would now be the most perfect church in
Christendom; and even as it stands it is more lovely and better designed than any other, although
it has not been carried out according to the model, as may be seen from certain parts begun
on the outside, wherein the design observed within has not been followed, as it appears from
the model that the doors and the borders round the windows were meant to do. There are some
errors, attributed to him, about which I will be silent, for it is believed that if he had
completed the building he would not have endured them, seeing that he had brought all his work
to perfection with so much judgment, discrimination, intellect, and art; and this work likewise
established him as a genius truly divine.

Filippo was very humorous in his discourse and very acute in repartee, as he showed when he
wished to hit at Lorenzo Ghiberti, who had bought a farm on Monte Morello, called Lepriano,
on which he spent twice as much as he gained by way of income, so that he grew weary of this
and sold it. Some one asked Filippo what was the best thing that Lorenzo had ever done, thinking
perchance, by reason of the enmity between them, that he would criticize Lorenzo; and he replied,
"The selling of Lepriano." Finally, having now grown very old--he was sixty-nine years of age--he
passed to a better life on April 16, in the year 1446, after having exhausted himself greatly
in making the works that enabled him to win an honoured name on earth and to obtain a place
of repose in Heaven. His death caused infinite grief to his country, which recognized and esteemed
him much more when dead than it had done when he was alive; and he was buried with the most
honourable obsequies and distinctions in S. Maria del Fiore, although his burial-place was
in S. Marco, under the pulpit opposite to the door, where there is a coat of arms with two
fig-leaves and certain green waves on a field of gold, because his family came from the district
of Ferrara, that is, from Ficaruolo, a township on the Po, as it is shown by the leaves, which
denote the place, and by the waves, which signify the river. He was mourned by innumerable
brother-craftsmen, and particularly by the poorer among them, whom he was ever helping. Thus
then, living the life of a Christian, he left to the world the sweet savour of his goodness
and of his noble talents. It seems to me that it can be said for him that from the time of
the ancient Greeks and Romans to our own there has been no rarer or more excellent master than
Filippo; and he is all the more worthy of praise because in his times the German manner was
held in veneration throughout all Italy and practised by the old craftsmen, as it may be seen
in innumerable edifices. He recovered the ancient mouldings and restored the Tuscan, Corinthian,
Doric and Ionic Orders to their original forms. He had a disciple from Borgo a Buggiano, called
Il Buggiano, who made the lavatory of the Sacristy of S. Reparata, with certain boys who pour
out water; and he made a head of his master in marble, taken from the life, which was placed
after the death of Filippo in S. Maria del Fiore, beside the door on the right hand as one
enters the church, where there is also the following epitaph, placed there by public decree
in order to honour him after his death, even as he had honoured his country when alive:

                                 D.S.

   QUANTUM PHILIPPUS ARCHITECTUS ARTE DÆDALEA VALUERIT, CUM HUJUS
   CELEBERRIMI TEMPLI MIRA TESTUDO, TUM PLURES ALIÆ DIVINO INGENIO
   AB EO ADINVENTÆ MACHINÆ DOCUMENTO ESSE POSSUNT; QUAPROPTER
   OB EXIMIAS SUI ANIMI DOTES SINGULARESQUE VIRTUTES XV KAL. MAIAS
   ANNO MCCCCXLVI EJUS B.M. CORPUS HAC HUMO SUPPOSITA GRATA PATRIA
                            SEPELIRI JUSSIT.

To do him even greater honour, others have gone so far as to add these two other inscriptions:

   PHILIPPO BRUNELLESCO ANTIQUÆ ARCHITECTURÆ INSTAURATORI S.P. Q.F.
                        CIVI SUO BENE MERENTI.

Giovan Battista Strozzi made the second:

   TAL SOPRA SASSO SASSO
   DI GIRO IN GIRO ETERNAMENTE IO STRUSSI;
   CHE COSÌ PASSO PASSO
   ALTO GIRANDO AL CIEL MI RICONDUSSI.

Other disciples of Filippo were Domenico dal Lago di Lugano; Geremia da Cremona, who worked
very well in bronze, together with a Sclavonian who made many works in Venice; Simone, who
died at Vicovaro while executing a great work for the Count of Tagliacozzo, after having made
the Madonna in Orsanmichele for the Guild of the Apothecaries; Antonio and Niccolò, both Florentines,
who, working in metal at Ferrara, made a horse of bronze for Duke Borso in the year 1461; and
many others, of whom it would take too long to make particular mention. Filippo was unfortunate
in certain respects, for, besides the fact that he ever had some one to contend with, some
of his buildings were not completed in his time and are still unfinished. To mention only one,
it was a great pity that the Monks of the Angeli, as it has been said, could not finish the
temple begun by him, since, after they had spent on the portion that is now seen more than
three thousand crowns, drawn partly from the Guild of Merchants and partly from the Monte,
where their money was kept, the capital was squandered and the building remained, as it still
remains, unfinished. Wherefore, as it was said in the life of Niccolò da Uzzano, if a man desires
to leave such memorials behind him, let him do it for himself the while that he lives, and
let him not put his trust in anyone; and what has been said of this edifice could be said of
many others designed by Filippo Brunelleschi.

DONATO

LIFE OF DONATO

[DONATELLO]

SCULPTOR OF FLORENCE

Donato, who was called Donatello by his relatives and wrote his name thus on some of his works,
was born in Florence in the year 1403. Devoting himself to the arts of design, he was not only
a very rare sculptor and a marvellous statuary, but also a practised worker in stucco, an able
master of perspective, and greatly esteemed as an architect; and his works showed so great
grace, design, and excellence, that they were held to approach more nearly to the marvellous
works of the ancient Greeks and Romans than those of any other craftsman whatsoever. Wherefore
it is with good reason that he is ranked as the first who made a good use of the invention
of scenes in low-relief, which he wrought so well that it is recognized from the thought, the
facility, and the mastery that he showed therein, that he had a true understanding of them,
making them with a beauty far beyond the ordinary; for not only did no craftsman in this period
ever surpass him, but no one even in our own age has equalled him.

Donatello was brought up from his early childhood in the house of Ruberto Martelli, where,
by his good qualities and by his zealous talent, he won the affection not only of Martelli
himself but of all that noble family. As a youth he wrought many things, which were not held
in great account, by reason of their number; but what made him known for what he was and gave
him a name was an Annunciation in grey-stone, which was placed close to the altar of the Chapel
of the Cavalcanti, in the Church of S. Croce in Florence. For this he made an ornament composed
in the grotesque manner, with a base of varied intertwined work and a decoration of quadrantal
shape, adding six boys bearing certain festoons, who appear to be holding one another securely
with their arms in their fear of the height. But the greatest genius and art that he showed
was in the figure of the Virgin, who, alarmed by the unexpected apparition of the Angel, is
making a most becoming reverence with a sweet and timid movement of her person, turning with
most beautiful grace towards him who is saluting her, in a manner that there are seen in her
countenance that humility and gratitude which are due to one who presents an unexpected gift,
and the more when the gift is a great one. Besides this, Donato showed a masterly flow of curves
and folds in the draperies of that Madonna and of the Angel, demonstrating with the suggestion
of the nude forms below how he was seeking to recover the beauty of the ancients, which had
lain hidden for so many years; and he displayed so great facility and art in this work, that
nothing more could be desired, in fact, with regard to design, judgment, and mastery in handling
the chisel.

In the same church, below the tramezzo,[20] and beside the scene painted by Taddeo Gaddi, he
made a Crucifix of wood with extraordinary care; and when he had finished this, thinking that
he had made a very rare work, he showed it to Filippo di Ser Brunellesco, who was very much
his friend, wishing to have his opinion. Filippo, whom the words of Donato had led to expect
something much better, smiled slightly on seeing it. Donato, perceiving this, besought him
by all the friendship between them to tell him his opinion; whereupon Filippo, who was most
obliging, replied that it appeared to him that Donato had placed a ploughman on the Cross,
and not a body like that of Jesus Christ, which was most delicate and in all its parts the
most perfect human form that was ever born. Donato, hearing himself censured, and that more
sharply than he expected, whereas he was hoping to be praised, replied, "If it were as easy
to make this figure as to judge it, my Christ would appear to thee to be Christ and not a ploughman;
take wood, therefore, and try to make one thyself." Filippo, without another word, returned
home and set to work to make a Crucifix, without letting anyone know; and seeking to surpass
Donato in order not to confound his own judgment, after many months he brought it to the height
of perfection. This done, he invited Donato one morning to dine with him, and Donato accepted
the invitation. Whereupon, as they were going together to the house of Filippo, they came to
the Mercato Vecchio, where Filippo bought some things and gave them to Donato, saying, "Do
thou go with these things to the house and wait for me there, I am coming in a moment." Donato,
therefore, entering the house and going into the hall, saw the Crucifix of Filippo, placed
in a good light; and stopping short to study it, he found it so perfectly finished, that, being
overcome and full of amazement, like one distraught, he spread out his hands, which were holding
up his apron; whereupon the eggs, the cheese, and all the other things fell to the ground,
and everything was broken to pieces. But he was still marvelling and standing like one possessed,
when Filippo came up and said with a laugh, "What is thy intention, Donato, and what are we
to have for dinner, now that thou hast upset everything?" "For my part," answered Donato, "I
have had my share for this morning: if thou must have thine, take it. But enough; it is thy
work to make Christ and mine to make ploughmen."

[Footnote 20: See note on p. 57, Vol. I.]

