"My lord, and gentlemen of the jury, I return from these conjectures to the indisputable facts
of my defence.

"Mr. Gaunt may be alive, or he may be dead. He was certainly alive on the 15th of October,
and it lies on the crown to prove him dead, and not on me to prove him alive. But as for the
body that forms the subject of this indictment, it is the body of Thomas Leicester, who was
seen on the 16th of October, at one in the morning, drunk and staggering, and making for Hernshaw
Bridge, which leads to his mother's house; and on all his former visits to Hernshaw Castle
he went on to his mother's, as I shall prove. This time, he never reached her, as I shall prove;
but on his way to her did meet his death, by the will of God, and no fault of man or woman,
in Hernshaw Mere.

"Call Sarah Leicester."

Judge. I think you say you have several witnesses.

Prisoner. More than twenty, my lord.

Judge. We cannot possibly dispose of them this evening. We will, hear your evidence to-morrow.
Prisoner, this will enable you to consult with your legal advisers, and let me urge upon you
to prove, if you can, that Mr. Gaunt has a sufficient motive for hiding and not answering Mr.
Atkins's invitation to inherit a large estate. Some such proof as this is necessary to complete
your defence; and I am sorry to see you have made no mention of it in your address, which was
otherwise able.

Prisoner. My lord, I think I can prove my own innocence without casting a slur upon my husband.

Judge. You think? when your life is at stake. Be not so mad as to leave so large a hole in
your defence, if you can mend it. Take advice.

He said this very solemnly; then rose and left the court.

Mrs. Gaunt was conveyed back to prison, and there was soon prostrated by the depression that
follows an unnatural excitement.

Mr. Houseman found her on a sofa, pale and dejected, and clasping the jailer's wife convulsively,
who applied hartshorn to her nostrils.

He proved but a Job's comforter. Her defence, creditable as it was to a novice, seemed wordy
and weak to him, a lawyer; and he was horrified at the admissions she had made. In her place
he would have admitted nothing he could not thoroughly explain.

He came to insist on a change of tactics.

When he saw her sad condition, he tried to begin by consoling and encouraging her. But his
own serious misgivings unfitted him for this task, and very soon, notwithstanding the state
she was in, he was almost scolding her for being so mad as to withstand the judge, and set
herself against his advice. "There," said he, "my lord kept his word, and became counsel for
you. 'Close that gap in your defence,' says he, 'and you will very likely be acquitted.' 'Nay,'
says you, 'I prefer to chance it.' What madness! what injustice!"

"Injustice! to whom?"

"To whom? why, to yourself."

"What, may I not be unjust to myself?"

"Certainly not; you have no right to be unjust to anybody. Don't deceive yourself; there is
no virtue in this; it is mere miserable weakness. What right have you to peril an innocent
life merely to screen a malefactor from just obloquy?"

"Alas!" said Mrs. Gaunt, "'tis more than obloquy. They will kill him; they will brand him with
a hot iron."

"Not unless he is indicted; and who will indict him? Sir George Neville must be got to muzzle
the attorney-general, and the Lancashire jade will not move against him, for you say they are
living together."

"Of course they are; and, as you say, why should I screen him? But 't will not serve; who can
combat prejudice? If what I have said does not convince them, an angel's voice would not. Sir,
I am a Catholic, and they will hang me. I shall die miserably, having exposed my husband, who
loved me once, O so dearly! I trifled with his love. I deserve it all."

"You will not die at all, if you will only be good and obedient, and listen to wiser heads.
I have subpoenaed Caroline Ryder as your witness, and given her a hint how to escape an indictment
for perjury. You will find her supple as a glove."

"Call a rattlesnake for my witness?"

"I have drawn her fangs. You will also call Sir George Neville, to prove he saw Gaunt's picture
at the 'Packhorse,' and heard the other wife's tale. Wiltshire will object to this as evidence,
and say why don't you produce Mercy Vint herself. Then you will call me to prove I sent the
subpoena to Mercy Vint. Come now; I cannot eat or sleep till you promise me."

Mrs. Gaunt sighed deeply. "Spare me," said she, "I am worn out. O that I could die before the
trial begins again!"

Houseman saw the signs of yielding, and persisted. "Come, promise now," said he. "Then you
will feel better."

"I will do whatever you bid me," said she. "Only, if they let me off, I will go into a convent.
No power shall hinder me."

"You shall go where you like, except to the gallows. Enough, 'tis a promise, and I never knew
you break one. Now I can eat my supper. You are a good, obedient child, and I am a happy attorney."

"And I am the most miserable woman in all England."

"Child," said the worthy lawyer, "your spirits have given way, because they were strung so
high. You need repose. Go to bed now, and sleep twelve hours. Believe me, you will wake another
woman."

"Ah! would I could!" cried Mrs. Gaunt, with all the eloquence of despair.

Houseman murmured a few more consoling words, and then left her, after once more exacting a
promise that she would receive no more visits, but go to bed directly. She was to send all
intruders to him at the "Angel."

Mrs. Gaunt proceeded to obey his orders, and though it was but eight o'clock, she made preparations
for bed, and then went to her nightly devotions.

She was in sore trouble, and earthly trouble turns the heart heavenwards. Yet it was not so
with her. The deep languor that oppressed her seemed to have reached her inmost soul. Her beads,
falling one by one from her hand, denoted the number of her supplications; but, for once, they
were preces sine mente dictæ. Her faith was cold, her belief in Divine justice was shaken for
a time. She began to doubt and to despond. That bitter hour, which David has sung so well,
and Bunyan, from experience, has described in his biography as well as in his novel, sat heavy
upon her, as it had on many a true believer before her. So deep was the gloom, so paralyzing
the languor, that at last she gave up all endeavor to utter words of prayer. She placed her
crucifix at the foot of the wall, and laid herself down on the ground and kissed His feet,
then, drawing back, gazed upon that effigy of the mortal sufferings of our Redeemer.

    "O anima Christiana, respice vulnera morientis,
        pretium redemptionis."

       *       *       *       *       *

She had lain thus a good half-hour, when a gentle tap came to the door.

"Who is that?" said she.

"Mrs. Menteith," the jailer's wife replied, softly, and asked leave to come in.

Now this Mrs. Menteith had been very kind to her, and stoutly maintained her innocence. Mrs.
Gaunt rose, and invited her in.

"Madam," said Mrs. Menteith, "what I come for, there is a person below who much desires to
see you."

"I beg to be excused," was the reply. "He must go to my solicitor at the 'Angel,' Mr. Houseman."

Mrs. Menteith retired with that message, but in about five minutes returned to say that the
young woman declined to go to Mr. Houseman, and begged hard to see Mrs. Gaunt. "And, dame,"
said she, "if I were you, I'd let her come in; 'tis the honestest face, and the tears in her
soft eyes, at you denying her: 'O dear, dear!' said she, 'I cannot tell my errand to any but her.'"

"Well, well," said Mrs. Gaunt; "but what is her business?"

"If you ask me, I think her business is your business. Come, dame, do see the poor thing; she
is civil spoken, and she tells me she has come all the way out of Lancashire o' purpose."

Mrs. Gaunt recoiled, as if she had been stung.

"From Lancashire?" said she, faintly.

"Ay, madam," said Mrs. Menteith, "and that is a long road; and a child upon her arm all the
way, poor thing!"

"Her name?" said Mrs. Gaunt, sternly.

"O, she is not ashamed of it. She gave it me directly."

"What, has she the effrontery to take my name?"

Mrs. Menteith stared at her with utter amazement. "Your name?" said she. "'T is a simple, country
body, and her name is Vint,--Mercy Vint."

Mrs. Gaunt was very much agitated, and said she felt quite unequal to see a stranger.

"Well, I'm sure I don't know what to do," said Mrs. Menteith. "She says she will lie at your
door all night, but she will see you. 'T is the face of a friend. She may know something. It
seems hard to thrust her and her child out into the street, after their coming all the way
from Lancashire."

Mrs. Gaunt stood silent awhile, and her intelligence had a severe combat with her deep repugnance
to be in the same room with Griffith Gaunt's mistress (so she considered her). But a certain
curiosity came to the aid of her good sense; and, after all, she was a brave and haughty woman,
and her natural courage began to rise. She thought to herself, "What, dares she come to me
all this way, and shall I shrink from her?"

She turned to Mrs. Menteith with a bitter smile, and she said, very slowly, and clenching her
white teeth: "Since you desire it, and she insists on it, I will receive Mistress Mercy Vint."

Mrs. Menteith went off, and in about five minutes returned, ushering in Mercy Vint, in a hood
and travelling-cloak.

Mrs. Gaunt received her standing, and with a very formal courtesy; to which Mercy made a quiet
obeisance, and both women looked one another all over in a moment.

Mrs. Menteith lingered, to know what on earth this was all about; but as neither spoke a word,
and their eyes were fixed on each other, she divined that her absence was necessary, and so
retired, looking very much amazed at both of them.

THE USURPATION.

There are three passions to which public men are especially exposed,--fear, hatred, and ambition.
Mr. Johnson is the victim and slave of all; and, unhappily for himself, and unfortunately for
the country, there is no ground for hope that he will ever free himself from their malign influence.

It is a common report, and a common report founded upon the statements of those best acquainted
with the President, that he lives in continual fear of personal harm, and that he anticipates
hostile Congressional action in an attempt to impeach him and deprive him of his office. He
best of all men knows whether he is justly liable to impeachment; and he ought to know that
Congress cannot proceed to impeach him, unless the offences or misdemeanors charged and proved
are of such gravity as to justify the proceeding in the eyes of the country and the world.

There is nothing vindictive or harsh in the American character. The forbearance of the American
people is a subject of wonder, if it is not a theme for encomium. They have assented to the
pardon of many of the most prominent Rebels; they have seen the authors of the war restored
to citizenship, to the possession of their property, and even to the enjoyment of patronage
and power in the government; and finally, they have been compelled, through the policy of the
President, to submit to the dictation, and in some sense to the control, of the men whom they
so recently met and vanquished upon the field of battle. The testimony of Alexander H. Stephens
everywhere suggests, and in many particulars exactly expresses, the policy of the President.

Mr. Stephens asserts that the States recently in rebellion were always entitled to representation
in the Congress of the United States; and Mr. Johnson must accept the same position; for, if
the right were once lost, it is impossible to suggest how or when it was regained. It is also
known that, while the Johnston-Sherman negotiations were pending, Mr. Davis received written
opinions from two or more persons who were then with him, and acting as members of his Cabinet,
upon the very question in dispute between Congress and Mr. Johnson,--the rights of the then
rebellious States in the government of the United States. These opinions set up and maintained
the doctrine that the Rebel States would be at once entitled to representation in the government
of the country, upon the ratification or adoption of the pending negotiations. It may not be
just to say that the President borrowed his policy from Richmond; but it is both just and true
to say that the leaders of the Rebellion have been incapable of suggesting a public policy
more advantageous to themselves than that which he has adopted. The President knows that the
people have been quiet and impartial observers of these proceedings; that the House of Representatives
has never in public session, nor in any of its caucuses or committees, considered or proposed
any measure looking to his impeachment.

The grounds of his fear are known only to himself; but its existence exerts a controlling influence
over his private and public conduct.

Associated with this fear, and probably springing from it, is an intense hatred of nearly all
the recognized leaders of the party by which he was nominated and elected to office. Evidence
upon this point is not needed. He has exhibited it in a manner and to a degree more uncomfortable
to his friends than to his enemies, in nearly every speech that he has made, commencing with
that delivered on the 22d of February last.

Superadded to these passions, which promise so much of woe to Mr. Johnson and to the country,
is an inordinate, unscrupulous, and unreasoning ambition. To one theme the President is always
constant,--to one idea he is always true,--"He has filled every office, from that of alderman
of a village to the Presidency of the United States." He does not forget, nor does he permit
the world to forget, this fact. In some form of language, and in nearly every speech, he assures
his countrymen that he either is, or ought to be, satisfied with this measure of success. But
have not his own reflections, or some over-kind friend, suggested that he has never been elected
President of the United States? and that there yet remains the attainment of this one object
of ambition?

Inauguration day, 1865, will be regarded as one of the saddest days in American annals. We
pass over its incidents; but it was fraught with an evil suggestion to our enemies, and it
must have been followed by a firm conviction in the mind of Mr. Johnson that he could not thereafter
enjoy the confidence of the mass of the Republican party of the country. He foresaw that they
would abandon him, and he therefore made hot haste to abandon them. And, indeed, it must be
confessed that there was scarcely more inconsistency in that course on his part, than there
would have been in continuing his connection with the men who had elected him. His nomination
for the Vice-Presidency was an enthusiastic tribute to his Union sentiments; beyond a knowledge
of these, the Convention neither had nor desired to have any information. Mr. Johnson was and
is a Union man; but he was not an anti-slavery man upon principle. He was a Southern State-Rights
man. He looked upon the national government as a necessity, and the exercise of any powers
on its part as a danger. His political training was peculiar. He had carried on a long war
with slaveholders, but he had never made war upon slavery. He belonged to the poor white class.
In his own language he was a plebeian. The slaveholders were the patricians. He desired that
all the white men of Tennessee, especially, and of the whole South, should be of one class,--all
slaveholders,--all patricians, if that were possible; and he himself, for a time became one.
Failing in this, he was satisfied when all became non-slaveholders, and the patrician class
ceased to exist. Hence, as far as Mr. Johnson's opinions and purposes are concerned, the war
has accomplished everything for which it was undertaken. The Union has been preserved, and
the patrician class has been broken down.

Naturally, Mr. Johnson is satisfied. On the one hand he has no sympathy with the opinion that
the negro is a man and ought to be a citizen, and that he should be endowed with the rights
of a man and a citizen; and, on the other hand, he shares not in the desire of the North to
limit the representation of the South so that there shall be equality among the white men of
the country. He is anxious rather to increase the political strength of the South. He fears
the growing power of the North. The same apprehension which drove Calhoun into nullification,
and Davis, Stephens, and others into rebellion and civil war, now impels Mr. Johnson to urge
the country to adopt his policy, which secures to the old slaveholding States an eighth of
the political power of the nation, to which they have no just title whatever. To the North
this is a more flagrant political injustice than was even the institution of slavery. He once
expressed equal hostility towards Massachusetts and South Carolina, and desired that they should
be cut off from the main land and lashed together in the wide ocean. The President appears
to be reconciled to South Carolina; but if the hostility he once entertained to the two States
had been laid upon Massachusetts alone, he ought to have felt his vengeance satisfied when
her representatives entered the Philadelphia Convention arm in arm with the representatives
of South Carolina, assuming only, what is not true, that the sentiment of Massachusetts was
represented in that Convention. As a perfect illustration of the President's policy, two men
from Massachusetts should have been assigned to each member from South Carolina, as foreshowing
the future relative power of the white men of the two States in the government of the country.
The States of the North and West will receive South Carolina and the other Rebel States as
equals in political power and rights, whenever those States are controlled by loyal men; but
they are enemies to justice, to equality, and to the peace of the country who demand the recognition
of the Rebel States upon the unequal basis of the existing Constitution.

Of these enemies to justice, equality, and the peace of the country, the President is the leader
and the chief; and as such leader and chief he is no longer entitled to support, confidence,
or even personal respect He has seized upon all the immense patronage of this government, and
avowed his purpose to use it for the restoration of the Rebel States to authority, regardless
of the rights of the people of the loyal States. He has thus become the ally of the Rebels,
and the open enemy of the loyal white men of the country. The President, and those associated
with him in this unholy project, cannot but know that the recognition of the ten disloyal States
renders futile every attempt to equalize representation in Congress. The assent of three fourths
of the States is necessary to the ratification of an amendment to the Constitution. The fifteen
old Slave States are largely interested in the present system, and they will not consent voluntarily
to a change. The question between the President and Congress is then this: Shall the ten States
be at once recognized,--thus securing to the old Slave States thirty Representatives and thirty
electoral votes to which they have no title, or shall they be required to accept, as a condition
precedent, an amendment to the Constitution which provides an equal system of representation
for the whole country? It is not enough, in the estimation of the President, that the loyal
people should receive these enemies of the Union and murderers of their sons and brothers as
equals, but he demands a recognition of their superiority and permanent rule in the government
by a voluntary tender of an eighth of the entire representative force of the republic. When
before were such terms ever exacted of the conqueror in behalf of the conquered? If the victorious
North had demanded of the vanquished South a surrender of a part of its representative power
in the government, as a penalty for its treason, that demand would have been sustained upon
the principles of justice, although the proceeding would have been unwise as a measure of public
policy. As it is, the victorious North only demands equality for itself, while it offers equality
to the vanquished South. Was there ever a policy more just, wise, reasonable, and magnanimous?

Yet the President rejects this policy, deserts the loyal men of the North by whom he was elected,
conspires with the traitors in the loyal States and the Rebels of the disloyal States for the
humiliation, the degradation, the political enslavement of the loyal people of the country.
And this is the second great conspiracy against liberty, against equality, against the peace
of the country, against the permanence of the American Union; and of this conspiracy the President
is the leader and the chief. Nor can he defend himself by saying that he desires to preserve
the Constitution as it was, for he himself has been instrumental in securing an important alteration.
"The Constitution as it was" has passed away, and by the aid of Mr. Johnson.

Nor can he say that he is opposed to exacting conditions precedent; for he made the ratification
of the anti-slavery amendment a condition precedent to his own recognition of their existence
as States clothed with authority. Thus is he wholly without proper excuse for his conduct.
Nor can he assert that the Rebel States are, and ever have been, States of the Union, and always
and ever entitled to representation and without conditions; for then is he guilty of impeachable
offences in demanding of them the ratification of the constitutional amendment, in dictating
a policy to the Southern States, in organizing provisional governments, in inaugurating constitutional
conventions, in depriving officers elected or appointed by authority of those States of their
offices, and, in fine, in assuming to himself supreme authority over that whole region of country
for a long period of time. Thus his only defence of his present policy contains an admission
that he has usurped power, that he has violated the Constitution, that he is guilty of offences
for which he ought to be impeached. Thus do the suggestions which the President tenders as
his defence furnish conclusive evidence that his conduct is wholly indefensible.

While then the President cannot defend his conduct, it is possible for others to explain it.

Its explanation maybe found in some one or in several of the following propositions:--

1. That the Rebel leaders have acquired a control over the President, through the power of
some circumstance not known to the public, which enables them to dictate a policy to him.

2. That he fears impeachment, and consequently directs all his efforts to secure more than
a third of the Senate, so as to render a conviction impossible.

3. That he seeks a re-election, and purposes to make the South a unit in his favor, as the
nucleus around which the Democratic party of the North must gather in 1868.

4. That he desires to reinstate the South as the controlling force in the government of the
country.

