    I am desired by Professor Prevost to inform you that you were
    elected an honorary member of the Société de Physique et d'Histoire
    Naturelle de Genève on the 3rd April, and that a diploma will be
    forwarded to you by the earliest opportunity. After all the honours
    you have received, this little feather is hardly worthy of waving in
    your plume, but I am glad that Geneva should know how to appreciate
    your merit. You receive great honours, my dear friend, but that
    which you confer on our sex is still greater, for with talents and
    acquirements of masculine magnitude you unite the most sensitive and
    retiring modesty of the female sex; indeed, I know not any woman,
    perhaps I might say, any human being, who would support so much
    applause without feeling the weakness of vanity. Forgive me for
    allowing my pen to run away with this undisguised praise, it looks
    so much like compliment, but I assure you it comes straight from the
    heart, and you must know that it is fully deserved.... I know not
    whether you have heard of the death of Professor de la Rive (the
    father); it was an unexpected blow, which has fallen heavily on all
    his family. It is indeed a great loss to Geneva, both as a man of
    science and a most excellent citizen.

    M. Rossi[12] has left us to occupy the chair of political economy of
    the late M. Say, at Paris; his absence is sadly felt, and it is in
    vain to look around for any one capable of replacing him....

                                          Yours affectionately,
                                                          J. MARCET.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM ADMIRAL W.H. SMYTH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    CRESCENT, BEDFORD, October 3rd, 1835.

    MY DEAR MADAM,

    As an opportunity offers of sending a note to town, I beg to mention
    that I have somewhat impatiently waited for some appearance of
    settled weather, in order to press your coming here to inspect
    Halley's comet, before it should have become visible to the
    unassisted eye. That unerring monitor, however, the barometer, held
    forth no hope, and the ceaseless traveller is already an object of
    conspicuous distinction without artificial aid, except, perhaps, to
    most eyes an opera-glass, magnifying three or four times, will be
    found a pleasant addition. It is now gliding along with wonderful
    celerity, and the nucleus is very bright. It is accompanied with a
    great luminosity, and the nucleus has changed its position therein;
    that is, on the 29th August, the nucleus was like a minute star near
    the centre of the nebulous envelope; on the 2nd September it
    appeared in the n. f. quarter, and latterly it has been in the s.
    f.

    How remarkable that the month of August this year should rattle
    Halley's name throughout the globe, in identity with an astonishing
    scientific triumph, and that in the selfsame month the letters of
    Flamsteed should have appeared! How I wish some one would give us a
    life of Newton, with all the interesting documents that exist of his
    labours! Till such appears, Flamsteed's statements, though bearing
    strong internal evidence of truth, are ex-parte, and it is evident
    his anxiety made him prone to impute motives which he could not
    prove. The book is painfully interesting, but except in all that
    relates to the personal character of Flamsteed, I could almost have
    wished the documents had been destroyed. People of judgment well
    know that men without faults are monsters, but vulgar minds delight
    in seeing the standard of human excellence lowered.

                                             Dear Madam,
                                                Yours faithfully,
                                                         W.H. SMYTH.

We were deprived of the society of Sir John and Lady Herschel for four years, because Sir John
took his telescope and other instruments to the Cape of Good Hope, where he went, accompanied
by his family, for the purpose of observing the celestial phenomena of the southern hemisphere.
There are more than 6,000 double stars in the northern hemisphere, in a large proportion of
which the angle of position and distance between the two stars have been measured, and Sir
John determined, in the same manner, 1081 in the southern hemisphere, and I believe many additions
have been made to them since that time. In many of these one star revolves rapidly round the
other. The elliptical orbits and periodical times of sixteen or seventeen of these stellar
systems have been determined. In Gamma Virginis the two stars are nearly of the same magnitude,
and were so far apart in the middle of the last century that they were considered to be quite
independent of each other. Since then they have been gradually approaching one another, till,
in March, 1836, I had a letter from Admiral Smyth, informing me that he had seen one of the
stars eclipse the other, from his observatory at Bedford.

    FROM ADMIRAL SMYTH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    CRESCENT, BEDFORD, March 26th, 1836.

    MY DEAR MADAM,

    Knowing the great interest you take in sidereal astronomy, of which
    so little is yet known, I trust it will not be an intrusion to tell
    you of a new, extraordinary, and very unexpected fact, in the
    complete occultation of one "fixed" star by another, under
    circumstances which admit of no possible doubt or equivocation.

    You are aware that I have been measuring the position and distance
    of the two stars [Greek: g]^1 and [Greek: g]^2 Virginis, which are both
    nearly of similar magnitudes, and also, that they have approximated to
    each other very rapidly. They were very close last year, and I expected
    to find they had crossed each other at this apparition, but to my
    surprise I find they have become a fair round disc, which my highest
    powers will not elongate--in fact, a single star! I shall watch
    with no little interest for the reappearance of the second [Greek: g].

                                    My dear madam,
                                          Your truly obliged servant,
                                                            W.H. SMYTH.

       *     *     *     *     *

This eclipse was also seen by Sir John Herschel at the Cape of Good Hope, as well as by many
astronomers in Europe provided with instruments of great optical power. In 1782 Sir William
Herschel saw one of the stars of Zeta Herculis eclipse the other.

In the "Connexion of the Physical Sciences" I have given an abridged account of Sir John Herschel's
most remarkable discoveries in the southern hemisphere; but I may mention here that he determined
the position and made accurate drawings of all the nebulæ that were distinctly visible in his
20 ft. telescope. The work he published will be a standard for ascertaining the changes that
may take place in these mysterious objects for ages to come. Sir William Herschel had determined
the places of 2,500 nebulæ in the northern hemisphere; they were examined by his son, and drawings
made of some of the most remarkable, but when these nebulæ were viewed through Lord Rosse's
telescope, they presented a very different appearance, showing that the apparent form of the
nebulæ depends upon the space-penetrating power of the telescope, a circumstance of vital importance
in observing the changes which time may produce on these wonderful objects.

    [Long afterwards Lord Rosse wrote in reply to some questions which
    my mother had addressed to him on this subject:--]

    FROM THE EARL OF ROSSE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    CASTLE, PARSONSTOWN, June 12th, 1844.

    DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I have very reluctantly postponed so long replying to your
    inquiries respecting the telescope, but there were some points upon
    which I was anxious to be enabled to speak more precisely. The
    instrument we are now using is 3 feet aperture, and 27 feet focus,
    and in the greater proportion of the nebulæ which have been observed
    with it some new details have been brought out. Perhaps the most
    interesting general result is that, as far as we have gone,
    increasing optical power has enlarged the list of clusters, by
    diminishing that of the nebulæ properly so-called. Such has always
    been the case since the nebulæ have been observed with telescopes,
    and although it would be unsafe to draw the inference, it is
    impossible not to feel some expectation that with sufficient optical
    power the nebulæ would all be reduced into clusters. Perhaps the two
    of the most remarkable of the resolved nebulæ are Fig. 26 and Fig.
    55. In several of the planetary nebulæ we have discovered a star or
    bright point in the centre, and a filamentous edge, which is just
    the appearance which a cluster with a highly condensed centre would
    present in a small instrument. For instance, Figs. 47 and 32. We
    have also found that many of the nebulæ have not a symmetrical form,
    as they appear to have in inferior instruments; for instance, Fig.
    81 is a cluster with long resolvable filaments from its southern
    extremity, and Fig. 85 is an oblong cluster with a bright centre.
    Fig. 45 is an annular nebula, like Herschel's drawing of the annular
    nebula in Lyra. I have sent drawings of a few of these objects to
    the Royal Society, they were forwarded a few days ago. We have upon
    the whole as yet observed but little with the telescope of 3 feet
    aperture. You recollect Herschel said that it was a good observing
    year, in which there were 100 hours fit for observing, and of the
    average of our hours I have not employed above 30. We have been for
    the last two years engaged in constructing a telescope of 6 feet
    aperture and 52 feet focus, and it would have been impossible to
    have bestowed the necessary attention upon it had we made a business
    of observing. That instrument is nearly finished, and I hope it will
    effect something for astronomy. The unequal refraction of the
    atmosphere will limit its powers, but how far remains to be
    ascertained.... Lady Rosse joins me in very kind remembrances and
    believe me to be,

                                 Dear Mrs. Somerville,
                                       Yours very truly and ever,
                                                              ROSSE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [Sir John Herschel wrote to my father from the Cape:--]

    FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MR. SOMERVILLE.

    FELDHAUSEN, NEAR WYNBERG, C.G.H., July 17th, 1830.

    MY DEAR SOMERVILLE,

    Since our arrival here, I have, I know in many instances, maintained
    or established the character of a bad correspondent; and really it
    is not an inconvenient character to have established. Only, in your
    case, I should be very sorry to appear in that, or any other
    negligent or naughty light; but you, I know, will allow for the
    circumstances which have occasioned my silence. Meanwhile, I am not
    sorry that the execution of an intention I had more than once formed
    should have been deferred, till we read in the papers of the
    well-judged and highly creditable notice (creditable I mean to the
    government pro tempore) which His Majesty has been pleased to take
    of Mrs. Somerville's elaborate works. Although the Royal notice is
    not quite so swift as the lightning in the selection of its objects,
    it agrees with it in this, that it is attracted by the loftiest; and
    though what she has performed may seem so natural and easy to
    herself, that she may blush to find it fame; all the rest of the
    world will agree with me in rejoicing that merit of that kind is
    felt and recognised at length in the high places of the earth. This,
    and the honourable mention of Airy by men of both parties in the
    House of Commons about the same time, are things that seem to mark
    the progress of the age we live in; and I give Peel credit for his
    tact in perceiving this mode of making a favourable impression on
    the public mind.

    We are all going on very comfortably, and continue to like the
    Cape as a place of (temporary) residence as much or more than at
    first. The climate is so very delicious.... The stars are most
    propitious, and, astronomically speaking, I can now declare the
    climate to be most excellent. Night after night, for weeks and
    months, with hardly an interruption, of perfect astronomical
    weather, discs of stars reduced almost to points, and tranquilly
    gliding across the field of your telescope. It is really a treat,
    such as occurs once or perhaps twice a year in England--hardly more.
    I had almost forgotten that by a recent vote of the Astronomical
    Society I can now claim Mrs. Somerville as a colleague. Pray make
    my compliments to her in that capacity, and tell her that I hope to
    meet her there at some future session....

                                         Yours very faithfully,
                                                      H.W. HERSCHEL.

    TO WILLIAM SOMERVILLE, ESQ.

       *     *     *     *     *

Spectrum analysis has shown that there is a vast quantity of self-luminous gaseous matter in
space, incapable of being reduced into stars, however powerful the telescope through which
it is observed. Hence the old opinion once more prevails, that this is the matter of which
the sun and stellar systems have been formed, and that other stellar systems are being formed
by slow, continuous condensation. The principal constituents of this matter are, the terrestrial
gases, hydrogen, and nitrogen. The yellow stars, like the sun, contain terrestrial matter.
The nebulous and stellar constituents were chiefly discovered by Dr. Huggins.

Somerville and I were always made welcome by Sir James South, and at Campden Hill I learnt
the method of observing, and sometimes made observations myself on the double stars and binary
systems, which, worthless as they were, enabled me to describe better what others had done.
One forenoon Somerville and I went to pay a visit to Lady South. Sir James, who was present,
said, "Come to the observatory, and measure the distance of Mercury from the sun; for they
are in close approximation, and I wish to see what kind of observation you will make." It was
erroneous, as might have been expected; but when I took the mean of several observations, it
differed but little from that which Sir James South had made; and here I learnt practically
the importance of taking the mean of approximate quantities.

       *     *     *     *     *

Dr. Wollaston, Dr. Young, and the Katers died before I became an author; Lord Brougham was
one of the last of my scientific contemporaries, all the rest were younger than myself, and
with this younger set, as with their predecessors, we had most agreeable and constant intercourse.
Although we lived so much in scientific society we had all along been on the most friendly
and intimate terms with the literary society of the day, such as Hallam, Milman, Moore, Malthus,
&c., &c. The highly intellectual conversation of these was enlivened by the brilliant wit of
my early friend, Sydney Smith, who was loved and admired by every one. His daughter married
our friend Sir Henry Holland, the distinguished physician, well known for his eminent literary
and scientific acquirements as well as for his refined taste.

No house in London was more hospitable and agreeable than that of the late Mr. John Murray,
in Albemarle Street. His dinner parties were brilliant, with all the poets and literary characters
of the day, and Mr. Murray himself was gentlemanly, full of information, and kept up the conversation
with spirit. He generously published the "Mechanism of the Heavens" at his own risk, which,
from its analytical character, could only be read by mathematicians.

Besides those I have mentioned we had a numerous acquaintance who were neither learned nor
scientific; and at concerts at some of their houses I enjoyed much hearing the great artists
of the day, such as Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, Rubini, &c., &c. We knew Lucien Buonaparte, who
gave me a copy of his poems, which were a failure.

I had become acquainted with Madame de Montalembert, who was an Englishwoman, and was mother
of the celebrated Comte; she was very eccentric, and at that time was an Ultra-Protestant.
One day she came to ask me to go and drive in the Park with her, and afterwards dine at her
house, saying, "We shall all be in high dresses." So I accepted, and on entering the drawing-room,
found a bishop and several clergymen, Lady Olivia Sparrow, and some other ladies, all in high
black satin dresses and white lace caps, precisely the dress I wore, and I thought it a curious
coincidence. The party was lively enough, and agreeable, but the conversation was in a style
I had never heard before--in fact, it affected the phraseology of the Bible. We all went after
dinner to a sort of meeting at Exeter Hall, I quite forget for what purpose, but our party
was on a kind of raised platform. I mentioned this to a friend afterwards, and the curious
circumstance of our all being dressed alike. "Do you not know," she said, "that dress is assumed
as a distinctive mark of the Evangelical party! So you were a wolf in sheep's clothing!"

I had been acquainted with the Miss Berrys at Raith, when visiting their cousins, Mr. and Mrs.
Ferguson. Mary, the eldest, was a handsome, accomplished woman, who from her youth had lived
in the most distinguished society, both at home and abroad. She published a "Comparative View
of Social Life in France and England," which was well received by the public. She was a Latin
scholar, spoke and wrote French fluently, yet with all these advantages, the consciousness
that she might have done something better, had female education been less frivolous, gave her
a characteristic melancholy which lasted through life. She did not talk much herself, but she
had the tact to lead conversation. She and her sister received every evening a select society
in their small house in Curzon Street. Besides any distinguished foreigners who happened to
be in London, among their habitual guests were my friend, Lady Charlotte Lindsay, always witty
and agreeable, the brilliant and beautiful Sheridans, Lady Theresa Lister, afterwards Lady
Theresa Lewis, who edited Miss Berry's "Memoirs," Lord Lansdowne, and many others. Lady Davy
came occasionally, and the Miss Fanshaws, who were highly accomplished, and good artists, besides
Miss Catherine Fanshaw wrote clever vers de société, such as a charade on the letter H, and,
if I am not mistaken, "The Butterfly's Ball," &c. I visited these ladies, but their manners
were so cold and formal that, though I admired their talents, I never became intimate with
them. On the contrary, like everyone else, I loved Mary Berry, she was so warm-hearted and
kind. When London began to fill, and the season was at its height, the Miss Berrys used to
retire to a pretty villa at Twickenham, where they received their friends to luncheon, and
strawberries and cream, and very delightful these visits were in fine spring weather. I recollect
once, after dining there, to have been fortunate enough to give a place in my carriage to Lord
Macaulay, and those who remember his charming and brilliant conversation will understand how
short the drive to London appeared.

We sometimes went to see Miss Lydia White, who received every evening; she was clever, witty,
and very free in her conversation. On one occasion the party consisted, besides ourselves,
of the Misses Berry, Lady Davy; the three poets, Rogers, William Spencer, and Campbell; Sir
James Macintosh, and Lord Dudley. Rogers, who was a bitter satirist and hated Lord Dudley,
had written the following, epigram:--

    Ward has no heart, 'tis said; but I deny it.
    He has a heart, and gets his speeches by it.

I had never heard of this epigram, and on coming away Lord Dudley said, "You are going home
to sleep and I to work." I answered, "Oh! you are going to prepare your speech for to-morrow."
My appropriate remark raised an universal laugh.

       *     *     *     *     *

Mr. Bowditch, of Boston, U.S., who died in 1838, left among other works a "Commentary on La
Place's Mécanique Céleste" in four volumes. While busily occupied in bringing out an edition
of the "Physical Sciences," I received a letter from his son, Mr. H. Bowditch, requesting me
to write an elaborate review of that work, which would be published in Boston along with the
biography of his father, written by Mr. Young, who sent me a copy of it. Though highly sensible
of the honour, I declined to undertake so formidable a work, fearing that I should not do justice
to the memory of so great a man.

I have always been in communication with some of the most distinguished men of the United States.
Washington Irving frequently came to see me when he was in London; he was as agreeable in conversation
as he was distinguished as an author. No one could be more amiable than Admiral Wilkes, of
the U.S. navy: he had all the frankness of a sailor. We saw a good deal of him when he was
in London, and I had a long letter from him, giving me an account of his fleet, his plan for
circumnavigation, &c.&c. I never had the good fortune to become personally acquainted with
Captain Maury, of the U.S. navy, author of that fascinating book, the "Physical Geography of
the Sea," but I am indebted to him for a copy of that work, and of his valuable charts. Mr.
Dana, who is an honour to his country, sent me copies of his works, to which I have had occasion
frequently to refer as acknowledged authority on many branches of natural history. I should
be ungrateful if I did not acknowledge the kindness I received from the Silliman family, who
informed me of any scientific discovery in the United States, and sent me a copy of their Journal
when it contained anything which might interest me. I was elected an honorary member of the
Geographical and Statistical Society of New York, U.S. on the 15th May, 1857, and on the 15th
October, 1869, I was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia,
for Promoting Useful Knowledge. I shall ever be most grateful for these honours.

While living in Florence, many years after, an American friend invited me to an evening party
to meet an American authoress who wished particularly to make my acquaintance. I accordingly
went there on the evening in question, and my friends, after receiving me with their accustomed
cordiality, presented me to the lady, and placed me beside her to give me an opportunity of
conversing with her. I addressed her several times, and made various attempts to enter into
conversation, but only received very dry answers in reply. At last she fairly turned her back
upon me, and became engrossed with a lady who sat on her other side, upon which I got up and
left her and never saw her again. A very different person in every respect was present that
evening, as much distinguished by her high mental qualities and poetical genius as by her modesty
and simplicity. I allude to our greatest British poetess, Mrs. Browning, who at that time resided
in Florence, except when the delicacy of her health obliged her to go to Rome. I think there
is no other instance of husband and wife both poets, and both distinguished in their different
lines. I can imagine no happier or more fascinating life than theirs; two kindred spirits united
in the highest and noblest aspirations. Unfortunately her life was a short one; in the full
bloom of her intellect her frail health gave way, and she died leaving a noble record of genius
to future ages, and a sweet memory to those who were her contemporaries. The Florentines, who,
like all Italians, greatly appreciate genius, whether native or foreign, have placed a commemorative
tablet on Casa Guidi, the house Mrs. Browning inhabited.

I was extremely delighted last spring in being honoured by a visit from Longfellow, that most
genial poet. It is not always the case that the general appearance of a distinguished person
answers to one's ideal of what he ought to be--in this respect Longfellow far surpasses expectation.
I was as much charmed with his winning manner and conversation as by his calm, grand features
and the expression of his intellectual countenance.

The Barons Fairfax, as I mentioned already, had long been members of the Republic of the United
States, and Washington's mother belonged to this family. During the war of Independence, while
my father, then Lieutenant Fairfax, was on board a man-of-war on the American station, he received
a letter from General Washington claiming him as a relation, and inviting him to pay him a
visit, saying, he did not think that war should interfere with the courtesies of private life.
Party spirit ran so high at that time that my father was reprimanded for being in correspondence
with the enemy. I mentioned to my friend, the Rev. Dr. Tuckerman, of the United States, how
much I regretted that so precious a letter had been lost, and he most kindly on going home
sent me an autograph letter of General Washington.

    FROM THE REV. JOSEPH TUCKERMAN TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    BOSTON, August 28th, 1834.

    MY DEAR MADAM,

    I have very great pleasure in sending to you an autograph letter of
    your and our glorious Washington. I obtained it from Mr. Sparks, who
    had the gratification of seeing you when he was in England, and who
    told me when I applied to him for it, that there is no one in the
    world to whom he would be so glad to give it. It is beyond
    comparison the best and almost the only remaining one at his
    disposal among the "Washington" papers.

    I am again in my family and in the field of my ministry.

    But very dear to me are my associations with scenes and friends in
    England; and most glad should I be if I could renew that intercourse
    with yourself, and with the intellect and virtue around you, to
    which I have been indebted for great happiness, and which, I hope,
    has done something to qualify me for a more efficient service. Will
    you please to present my very sincere respects to your husband, and
    to recall me to the kind remembrance of your children. With the
    highest respect and regard, allow me to call myself.

                                               Your friend,
                                                    JOSEPH TUCKERMAN.

       *     *     *     *     *

I think it must have been on returning from the American station, or may be later in the career
of my father's life, that a circumstance occurred which distressed him exceedingly. Highway
robberies were common on all the roads in the vicinity of London, but no violence was offered.
My father was travelling alone over Blackheath when the postilion was ordered to stop, a pistol
presented at my father, and his purse demanded. My father at once recognised the voice as that
of a shipmate, and exclaimed, "Good God! I know that voice! can it be young----? I am dreadfully
shocked; I have a hundred pounds which shall be yours--come into the carriage, and let me take
you to London, where you will be safe." ... "No, no," the young man said, "I have associates
whom I cannot leave--it is too late." ... It was too late; he was arrested eventually and suffered.
Years afterwards when by some accident my father mentioned this event, he was deeply affected,
and never would tell the name of the young man who had been his mess-mate.

    [My mother was already meditating writing a book upon Physical
    Geography, and had begun to collect materials for it, when my
    father's long and dangerous illness obliged her to lay it aside for
    a time. My father was ordered to a warmer climate for the winter,
    and as soon as he was able to travel we proceeded to Rome. We were
    hardly settled when my mother, with her usual energy, set to work
    diligently, and began this book, which was not published for some
    time later, as it required much thought and research. She never
    allowed anything to interfere with her morning's work; after that
    was over she was delighted to join in any plan which had been formed
    for the afternoon's amusement, and enjoyed herself thoroughly,
    whether in visiting antiquities and galleries, excursions in the
    neighbourhood, or else going with a friend to paint on the Campagna.
    My mother was extremely fond of Rome, and often said no place had
    ever suited her so well. Independently of the picturesque beauty of
    the place, which, to such a lover of nature, was sufficient in
    itself, there was a very pleasant society during many seasons we
    spent there. The visitors were far less numerous than they are now,
    but on that very account there was more sociability and intimacy,
    and scarcely an evening passed without our meeting. The artists
    residing at Rome, too, were a most delightful addition to society.
    Some of them became our very dear friends. My mother remarks:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

We took lodgings at Rome, and as soon as we were settled I resumed my work and wrote every
morning till two o'clock, then went to some gallery, walked on the Pincio, dined at six, and
in the evening either went out or received visits at home--the pleasantest way of seeing friends,
as it does not interfere with one's occupations.

We once joined a party that was arranged to see the statues in the Vatican by torchlight, at
which Lord Macaulay astonished us by his correct knowledge and learning as we passed through
the gallery of inscriptions. To me this evening was memorable; on this occasion I first met
with John Gibson, the sculptor, who afterwards became a dear and valued friend. He must have
been a pupil of Canova's or Thorwaldsen's when Somerville and I were first at Rome. Now his
fame was as great as that of either of his predecessors.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [In spring we went to Naples for a few weeks, and returned to Rome
    by the San Germano road, now so familiar to travellers, but then
    hardly ever frequented, as it was extremely unsafe on account of the
    brigands. We met with no adventures, although we often reached our
    night quarters long after sunset, for my mother sketched a great
    deal on the road. We travelled by vetturino and continued this
    delightful journey to Como. My mother was a perfect travelling
    companion, always cheerful and contented and interested in all she
    saw. I leave her to tell of our pleasant residence at Bellaggio in
    her own words:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

We remained only a short time at Florence, and then went for a month to Bellaggio, on the Lake
of Como, at that time the most lonely village imaginable. We had neither letters, newspapers,
nor any books, except the Bible, yet we liked it exceedingly. I did nothing but paint in the
mornings, and Somerville sat by me. My daughters wandered about, and in the evening we went
in a boat on the lake. Sometimes we made longer excursions. One day we went early to Menaggio,
at the upper end of the lake. The day had been beautiful, but while at dinner we were startled
by a loud peal of thunder. The boatmen desired us to embark without delay, as a storm was rising
behind the mountains; it soon blew a gale, and the lake was a sheet of foam; we took shelter
for a while at some place on the coast and set out again, thinking the storm had blown over,
but it was soon worse than ever. We were in no small danger for two hours. The boatmen, terrified,
threw themselves on their knees in prayer to the Madonna. Somerville seized the helm and lowered
the sail and ordered them to rise, saying, the Madonna would help them if they helped themselves,
and at last they returned to their duty. For a long time we remained perfectly silent, when
one of our daughters said, "I have been thinking what a paragraph it will be in the newspapers,
'Drowned, during a sudden squall on the lake of Como, an English family named Somerville, father,
mother and two daughters.'" The silence thus broken made us laugh, though our situation was
serious enough, for when we landed the shore was crowded with people who had fully expected
to see the boat go down. Twice after this we were overtaken by these squalls, which are very
dangerous. I shall never forget the magnificence of the lightning and the grandeur of the thunder,
which was echoed by the mountains during the storms on the Lake of Como.

We saw the fishermen spear the fish by torchlight, as they did on the Tweed. The fish were
plenty and the water so clear that they were seen at a great depth. There are very large red-fleshed
trout in the lake, and a small very delicious fish called agoni, caught in multitudes by fine
silk nets, to which bells are attached on floats, that keep up a constant tinkling to let the
fishermen know where to find their nets when floated away by the wind.

    [We now crossed the Alps, by the St. Gothard, to Basle and Baden
    Baden, where we passed the summer, intending to return to England in
    autumn, but as soon as the rains began my father had so serious a
    return of his illness that my mother was much alarmed. When he was
    well enough to travel, we once more crossed the Alps, and reached
    Florence, where we remained for the winter. My mother resumed her
    work there.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Through the kindness of the Grand Duke, I was allowed to have books at home from his private
library in the Pitti Palace, a favour only granted to the four Directors. This gave me courage
to collect materials for my long neglected Physical Geography, still in embryo. As I took an
interest in every branch of science I became acquainted with Professor Amici, whose microscopes
were unrivalled at that time, and as he had made many remarkable microscopic discoveries in
natural history, he took us to the Museum to see them magnified and modelled in wax. I had
the honour of being elected a member of the Academy of Natural Science at Florence.

There were many agreeable people at Florence that winter and a good deal of gaiety. The Marchese
Antinori presented Somerville and me to the Grand Duke, who had expressed a wish to know me.
He received us very graciously, and conversed with us for more than an hour on general subjects.
He afterwards wrote me a polite letter, accompanied by a work on the drainage of the Maremma,
and gave directions about our being invited to a scientific meeting which was to be held at
Pisa. We were presented to the Grand Duchess, who was very civil. We spent the summer at Siena,
and had a cheerful airy apartment with a fine view of the hills of Santa Fiora, and with very
pretty arabesques in fresco on the walls of all the rooms, some so very artistic that I made
sketches of them. In these old cities many of the palaces and houses are decorated with that
artistic taste which formerly prevailed to such an extent in Italy, and, which has now yielded,
here as elsewhere, to commonplace modern furniture.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [While we were at Siena, my mother received the following letter
    from Lord Brougham, who was a frequent correspondent of hers, but
    whose letters are generally too exclusively mathematical for the
    general reader. My mother had described the curious horse-races
    which are held at Siena every three years, and other mediæval
    customs still prevalent.]

    FROM LORD BROUGHAM TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    COLE HILL, KENT, Sept. 28th, 1840.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I am much obliged to you for your kind letter which let me know of
    your movements. I had not heard of them since I saw the
    Fergusons.... We have been here since parliament rose, as I am not
    yet at all equal to going to Brougham. My health is now quite
    restored; but I shall not soon--nor in all probability ever--recover
    the losses I have been afflicted with. I passed the greater part of
    last winter in Provence, expecting some relief from change of scene
    and from the fine climate; but I came back fully worse than when I
    went. In fact, I did wrong in struggling at first, which I did to be
    able to meet parliament in January last. If I had yielded at once, I
    would have been better. I hope and trust they sent you a book I
    published two years ago; I mean the "Dissertations," of which one is
    on the "Principia," and designed to try how far it may be taught to
    persons having but a very moderate stock of mathematics; also, if
    possible, to keep alive the true taste (as I reckon it) in
    mathematics, which modern analysis has a little broken in upon.
    Assuming you to have got the book, I must mention that there are
    some intolerable errors of the press left, such as.... Excuse my
    troubling you with these errata, and impute it to my wish that you
    should not suppose me to have written the nonsense which these pages
    seem to prove. By the way, it is a curious proof of university
    prejudice, that though the Cambridge men admit my analysis of the
    "Principia" to be unexceptionable, and to be well calculated for
    teaching the work, yet, not being by a Cambridge man, it cannot be
    used! They are far more liberal at Paris, where they only are
    waiting for my analysis of the second book; but I put off finishing
    it, as I do still more my account of the "Mécanique Céleste." The
    latter I have almost abandoned in despair after nearly finishing it;
    I find so much that cannot be explained elementarily, or anything
    near it. So that my account to be complete would be nearly as hard
    reading as yours, and not 1000th part as good.... I greatly envy you
    Siena; I never was there above a day, and always desired to stay
    longer. The language is, as you say, a real charm; but I was not
    aware of the preservation in which you describe the older manners to
    be. I fear I shall not be able to visit Provence, as I should have
    wished this winter ... but my plans are not quite fixed. The
    judicial business in Parliament and the Privy Council will also make
    my going abroad after January difficult. I don't write you any news,
    nor is there any but what you see in the papers. The Tory
    restoration approaches very steadily, tho' not very rapidly; and I
    only hope that the Whigs, having contrived to destroy the Liberal
    party in the country--I fear past all hope of recovery--may not have
    a war abroad also to mourn for....

                                               Believe me,
                                                    Yours ever,
                                                         H. BROUGHAM.

On going to Rome I required a good many books for continuing my work on "Physical Geography,"
and had got "Transactions of the Geographical Society" and other works sent from London, The
Hon. Mountstuart Elphinstone who was then at Rome, was an old acquaintance of ours. I would
as soon eat a child!" He was so kind as to write to the Directors of the East India Company
requesting that I might have the use of the library and papers that were in the India House.
This was readily granted me; and I had a letter in consequence from Mr. Wilson, the Orientalist,
giving me a list of the works they had on the geography of Eastern Asia and the most recent
travels in the Himalaya, Thibet, and China, with much useful information from himself. I was
indebted to Sir Henry Pottinger, then at Rome, for information relating to Scinde, for he had
been for some years British Envoy at Beloochistan. Thus provided, I went on with my work. We
lived several winters in an apartment on the second floor of Palazzo Lepri, Via dei Condotti,
where we passed many happy days. When we first lived in Via Condotti, the waste-pipes to carry
off the rain-water from the roofs projected far into the street, and when there was a violent
thunderstorm, one might have thought a waterspout had broken over Rome, the water poured in
such cascades from the houses on each side of the street. On one occasion the rain continued
in torrents for thirty-six hours, and the Tiber came down in heavy flood, inundating the Ghetto
and all the low parts of the city; the water was six feet deep in the Pantheon. The people
were driven out of their houses in the middle of the night and took refuge in the churches,
and boats plied in the streets supplying the inhabitants with food, which they hauled up in
baskets let down from the windows. The Campagna for miles was under water; it covered the Ponte
Molle so that the courier could not pass; and seen from the Pincio it looked like an extensive
lake. Much anxiety was felt for the people who lived in the farm houses now surrounded with
water. Boats were sent to rescue them, and few lives were lost; but many animals perished.
The flood did not subside till after three days, when it left everything covered with yellow
mud; the loss of property was very great, and there was much misery for a long time.

Our house was in a very central position, and when not engaged I gladly received anyone who
liked to come to us in the evening, and we had a most agreeable society, foreign and English,
for we were not looked upon as strangers, and the English society was much better during the
years we spent in Rome than it was afterwards.

I had an annual visit of an hour from the astronomer Padre Vico, and Padre Pianciani, Professor
of Chemistry in the Collegio Romano. I was invited to see the Observatory; but as I had seen
those of Greenwich and Paris, I did not think it worth while accepting the invitation, especially
as it required an order from the Pope. I could easily have obtained leave, for we were presented
to Gregory XVI. by the President of the Scotch Catholic College. The Pope received me with
marked distinction; notwithstanding I was disgusted to see the President prostrate on the floor,
kissing the Pope's foot as if he had been divine. I think it was about this time that I was
elected an honorary associate of the Accademia Tiberiana.

I had very great delight in the Campagna of Rome; the fine range of Apennines bounding the
plain, over which the fleeting shadows of the passing clouds fell, ever changing and always
beautiful, whether viewed in the early morning, or in the glory of the setting sun, I was never
tired of admiring; and whenever I drove out, preferred a country drive to the more fashionable
Villa Borghese. One day Somerville and I and our daughters went to drive towards the Tavolata,
on the road to Albano. We got out of the carriage, and went into a field, tempted by the wild
flowers. On one side of this field ran the aqueduct, on the other a deep and wide ditch full
of water. I had gone towards the aqueduct, leaving the others in the field. All at once we
heard a loud shouting, when an enormous drove of the beautiful Campagna grey cattle with their
wide-spreading horns came rushing wildly between us with their heads down and their tails erect,
driven by men with long spears mounted on little spirited horses at full gallop. It was so
sudden and so rapid, that only after it was over did we perceive the danger we had run. As
there was no possible escape, there was nothing for it but standing still, which Somerville
and my girls had presence of mind to do, and the drove dividing, rushed like a whirlwind to
the right and left of them. The danger was not so much of being gored as of being run over
by the excited and terrified animals, and round the walls of Rome places of refuge are provided
for those who may be passing when the cattle are driven. Near where this occurred there is
a house with the inscription "Casa Dei Spiriti"; but I do not think the Italians believe in
either ghosts or witches; their chief superstition seems to be the "Jettatura" or evil eye,
which they have inherited from the early Romans, and, I believe, Etruscans. They consider it
a bad omen to meet a monk or priest on first going out in the morning. My daughters were engaged
to ride with a large party, and the meet was at our house. A Roman, who happened to go out
first, saw a friar, and rushed in again laughing, and waited till he was out of sight. Soon
after they set off, this gentleman was thrown from his horse and ducked in a pool; so the "Jettatura"
was fulfilled. But my daughters thought his bad seat on horseback enough to account for his
fall without the Evil Eye.

In spring we went to Albano, and lived in a villa, high up on the hill in a beautiful situation
not far from the lake. The view was most extensive, commanding the whole of the Campagna as
far as Terracina, &c. In this wide expanse we could see the thunderclouds forming and rising
gradually over the sky before the storm, and I used to watch the vapour condensing into a cloud
as it rose into the cool air. I never witnessed anything so violent as the storms we had about
the equinox, when the weather broke up. Our house being high above the plain became enveloped
in vapour till, at 3 p.m. we could scarcely see the olives which grew below our windows, and
crash followed crash with no interval between the lightning and the thunder, so that we felt
sure many places must have been struck; and we were not mistaken--trees, houses, and even cattle
had been struck close to us. Somerville went to Florence to attend a scientific meeting, and
wrote to us that the lightning there had stripped the gold leaf off the conductors on the powder
magazine; a proof of their utility.

The sunsets were glorious, and I, fascinated by the gorgeous colouring, attempted to paint
what Turner alone could have done justice to. I made studies, too, which were signal failures,
of the noble ilex trees bordering the lake of Albano. Thus I wasted a great deal of time, I
can hardly say in vain, from the pleasure I had in the lovely scenery. Somerville sat often
by me with his book, while I painted from nature, or amused himself examining the geological
structure of the country. Our life was a solitary one, except for the occasional visit from
some friends who were at Frascati; but we never found it dull; besides, we made many expeditions
on mules or donkeys to places in the neighbourhood. I was very much delighted with the flora
on the Campagna and the Alban hills, which in spring and early summer are a perfect garden
of flowers. Many plants we cultivate in England here grow wild in profusion, such as cyclamens,
gum-cistus, both white and purple, many rare and beautiful orchideæ, the large flowering Spanish
broom, perfuming the air all around, the tall, white-blossomed Mediterranean heath, and the
myrtle. These and many others my girls used to bring in from their early morning walks. The
flowers only lasted till the end of June, when the heat began, and the whole country became
brown and parched; but scarcely had the autumnal rains commenced, when, like magic, the whole
country broke out once more into verdure, and myriads of cyclamens covered the ground. Nightingales
abounded in the woods, singing both by night and by day; and one bright moonlight night my
daughters, who slept with their window open, were startled from their sleep by the hooting
of one of those beautiful birds, the great-eared owl--"le grand duc" of Buffon--which had settled
on the railing of their balcony. We constantly came across snakes, generally harmless ones;
but there were a good many vipers, and once, when Somerville and my daughters, with Mr. Cromek,
the artist, had gone from Genzano to Nettuno for a couple of days, a small asp which was crawling
among the bent-grass on the seashore, darted at one of the girls, who had irritated it by touching
it with her parasol. By the natives they are much dreaded, both on this coast and in the pine
forest of Ravenna, where the cattle are said to be occasionally poisoned by their bite.

       *     *     *     *     *

We had been acquainted with the Rev. Dr., afterwards Cardinal Wiseman at Rome. He was head
of a college of young men educating for the Catholic Church, who had their "villeggiatura"
at Monte Porzio. We spent a day with him there, and visited Tusculum; another day we went to
Lariccia, where there is a palace and park belonging to the Chigi family in a most picturesque
but dilapidated state. We went also to Ganzano, Rocca del Papa, and occasionally to visit frends
at Frascati. There was a stone threshing-floor behind our house. During the vintage we had
it nicely swept and lighted with torches, and the grape gatherers came and danced till long
after midnight, to the great amusement of my daughters, who joined in the dance, which was
the Saltarello, a variety of the Tarantella. They danced to the beating of tambourines. Italy
is the country of music, especially of melody, and the popular airs, especially the Neapolitan,
are extremely beautiful and melodious; yet it is a fact, that the singing of the peasantry,
particularly in the Roman and Neapolitan provinces, is most disagreeable and discordant. It
is not melody at all, but a kind of wild chant, meandering through minor tones, without rhythm
of any sort or apparent rule, and my daughters say it is very difficult to note down; yet there
is some kind of method and similarity in it as one hears it shouted out at the loudest pitch
of the voice, the last note dwelt upon and drawn out to an immeasurable length. The words are
frequently improvised by the singers, who answer one another from a distance, as they work
in the fields. I have been told this style of chanting--singing it can hardly be called--has
been handed down from the most ancient times, and it is said, in the southern provinces, to
have descended from the early Greek colonists. The ancient Greeks are supposed to have chanted
their poetry to music, as do the Italian improvisatori at the present day. In Tuscany, the
words of the songs are often extremely poetical and graceful. Frequently, these verses, called
"stornelli" and "rispetti," are composed by the peasants themselves, women as well as men;
the language is the purest and most classical Italian, such as is spoken at the present day
in the provinces of Siena, Pistoja, &c., very much less corrupted by foreign idioms or adaptations
than what is spoken, even by cultivated persons, in Florence itself. The picturesque costumes
so universal when I first came to Italy, in 1817, had fallen very much into disuse when, at
a much later period, we resided in Rome, and now they are rarely seen.

We hired a handsome peasant girl from Albano as housemaid, who was much admired by our English
friends in her scarlet cloth bodice, trimmed with gold lace, and the silver spadone, or bodkin,
fastening her plaits of dark hair; but she very soon exchanged her picturesque costume for
a bonnet, etc., in which she looked clumsy and commonplace.

    [The following are extracts from letters written from Albano by my
    mother:--]

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO HER SON W. GREIG, ESQ.

    ALBANO, 16th June, 1841.

    I was thankful to hear, my dearest Woronzow, from your last letter
    that Agnes is recovering so well.... We are very much pleased with
    our residence at Albano; the house, with its high sounding name of
    "Villa," is more like a farmhouse, with brick floors and no carpets,
    and a few chairs and tables, but the situation is divine. We are
    near the top of the hill, about half-a-mile above Albano, and have
    the most magnificent view in every direction, and such a variety of
    delightful walks, that we take a new one every evening. For painting
    it is perfect; every step is a picture. At present we have no one
    near, and lead the life of hermits; but our friends have loaded us
    with books, and with drawing, painting, music, and writing, we never
    have a moment idle. Almost every one has left Rome; but the English
    have all gone elsewhere, as they are not so easily pleased with a
    house as we are. The only gay thing we have done was a donkey ride
    yesterday to the top of Monte Cavo, and back by the lake of Nemi....

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.

    ALBANO, 20th August, 1841.

    I dare say you think it very long since you have heard from me, my
    dearest Woronzow, but the truth is, I have been writing so hard,
    that after I had finished my day's work, I was fit for nothing but
    idleness. The reason of my hurry is, that the scientific meeting
    takes place at Florence on the 15th of September, and as I think it
    probable that some of our English philosophers will come to it, I
    hope to have a safe opportunity of sending home some MS. which it
    has cost me hard work to get ready, as I have undertaken a book more
    fit for the combination of a Society than for a single hand to
    accomplish. Lord Brougham was most kind when at Rome, and took so
    great an interest in it, that he has, undertaken to read it over,
    and give me his opinion and criticism, which will be very valuable,
    as I know no one who is a better judge of these matters. He will
    send it to Mr. Murray, and you had better consult with him about it,
    whether he thinks it will succeed or not. Both William and Martha
    like what I have done; but I am very nervous about it, and wish you
    would read it if you have time.... We have been extremely quiet all
    the summer; we have no neighbours, so that we amuse ourselves with
    our occupations. I get up between six and seven, breakfast at eight,
    and write till three, when we dine; after dinner, I write again till
    near six, when we go out and take a long walk; come home to tea at
    nine, and go to bed at eleven: the same thing day after day, so you
    cannot expect a very amusing letter.... I have another commission I
    wish you would do for me; it is to inquire what discoveries Captain
    Ross has made at the South Pole. I saw a very interesting account in
    "Galignani" of what they have done, but cannot trust to a newspaper
    account so as to quote it.

       *     *     *     *     *

A new edition of my "Physical Sciences" was required, so the "Physical Geography" was laid
aside for the present. On returning to Rome, we resumed our usual life, and continued to receive
our friends in the evening without ceremony. There was generally a merry party round the tea
table in a corner of the room. I cannot omit mentioning one of the most charming and intellectual
of our friends, Don Michelangelo Gaetani, Duke of Sermoneta, whose brilliant and witty conversation
is unrivalled, and for whom I have had a very sincere friendship for many years. I found him
lately as charming as ever, notwithstanding the cruel loss of his sight. The last time I ever
dined out was at his house at Rome, when I was on my way to Naples in 1867.

       *     *     *     *     *

John Gibson, the sculptor, the most guileless and amiable of men, was now a dear friend. His
style was the purest Grecian, and had some of his works been found among the ruins, multitudes
would have come to Rome to admire them. He was now in the height of his fame; yet he was so
kind and encouraging to young people that he allowed my girls to go and draw in his studio,
and one of my daughters, with a friend, modelled there for some time. His drawings for bas-reliefs
were most beautiful. He drew very slowly, but a line once drawn was never changed. He ignored
India-rubber or bread-crumbs, so perfect was his knowledge of anatomy, and so decided the character
and expression he meant to give.

We had charades one evening in a small theatre in our house, which went off very well There
was much beauty at Rome at that time; no one who was there can have forgotten the beautiful
and brilliant Sheridans. I recollect Lady Dufferin at the Easter ceremonies at St. Peter's,
in her widow's cap, with a large black crape veil thrown over it, creating quite a sensation.
With her exquisite features, oval face, and somewhat fantastical head-dress, anything more
lovely could not be conceived; and the Roman people crowded round her in undisguised admiration
of "la bella monaca Inglese." Her charm of manner and her brilliant conversation will never
be forgotten by those who knew her. To my mind, Mrs. Norton was the most beautiful of the three
sisters. Hers is a grand countenance, such as artists love to study. Gibson, whom I asked,
after his return from England, which he had revisited after twenty-seven years' absence, what
he thought of Englishwomen, replied, he had seen many handsome women, but no such sculptural
beauty as Mrs. Norton's. I might add the Marchioness of Waterford, whose bust at Macdonald's
I took at first for an ideal head, till I recognised the likeness.

Lady Davy used to live a great deal at Rome, and took an active part in society. She talked
a great deal, and talked well when she spoke English, but like many of us had more pretension
with regard to the things she could not do well than to those she really could. She was a Latin
scholar, and as far as reading and knowing the literature of modern languages went she was
very accomplished, but unfortunately, she fancied she spoke them perfectly, and was never happier
than when she had people of different nations dining with her, each of whom she addressed in
his own language. Many amusing mistakes of hers in speaking Italian were current in both Roman
and English circles.

       *     *     *     *     *

A few months were very pleasantly spent one summer at Perugia, where there is so much that
is interesting to be seen. The neighbouring country is very beautiful, and the city being on
the top of a hill is very cool during the hot weather. We had an apartment in the Casa Oddi-Baglioni--a
name well known in Italian history--and I recollect spending some very pleasant days with the
Conte Oddi-Baglioni, at a villa called Colle del Cardinale, some ten or twelve miles from the
town. The house was large and handsomely decorated, with a profusion of the finest Chinese
vases. On our toilet tables were placed perfumes, scented soap, and very elaborately embroidered
nightdresses were laid out for use. I remember especially admiring the basins, jugs, &c., which
were all of the finest japan enamel. There was a subterranean apartment where we dined, which
was delightfully cool and pleasant, and at a large and profusely served dinner-table, while
we and the guests with the owner of the house dined at the upper end, at the lower end and
below the salt there were the superintendent of the Count's farms, a house decorator and others
of that rank. It is not the only instance we met with of this very ancient custom. The first
time Somerville and I came to Italy, years before this, while dining at a very noble house,
the wetnurse took her place, as a matter of course, at the foot of the dinner-table.

On the morning after our arrival and at a very early hour there was a very fine eclipse of
the sun, though not total at Perugia or the neighbourhood; the chill and unnatural gloom were
very striking.

Perugia is one of the places in which the ancient athletic game of pallone is played with spirit.
It is so graceful when well played that I wonder our active young men have not adopted it.
A large leather ball filled with condensed air is struck and returned again by the opponent
with the whole force of their right arms, covered to the elbow with a spiked wooden case. The
promptness and activity required to keep up the ball is very great, and the impetus with which
it strikes is such, that the boxes for spectators in the amphitheatres dedicated to this game
are protected by strong netting. It is a very complicated game, and, I am told, somewhat resembles
tennis.

       *     *     *     *     *

On leaving Perugia we went for a few days to Asissi, spent a day at Chiusi, and then returned
to Rome, which we found in a great state of excitement on account of three steamers which had
just arrived from England to ply on the Tiber. The Pope and Cardinals made a solemn procession
to bless them. No doubt they would have thought our method of dashing a bottle of wine on a
vessel on naming her highly profane.

We constantly made expeditions to the country, to Tivoli, Veii, Ostia, &c., and my daughters
rode on the Campagna. One day they rode to Albano, and on returning after dark they told me
they had seen a most curious cloud which never altered its position; it was a very long narrow
stripe reaching from the horizon till nearly over head--it was the tail of the magnificent
comet of 1843.

We met with a great temptation in an invitation from Lady Stratford Canning, to go and visit
them at Buyukdéré, near Constantinople, but res arcta prevented us from accepting what would
have been so desirable in every respect. At this time I sat to our good friend Mr. Macdonald
for my bust, which was much liked.[13]

       *     *     *     *     *

One early summer we went to Loreto and Ancona, where we embarked for Trieste; the weather seemed
fine when we set off, but a storm came on, with thunder and lightning, very high sea and several
waterspouts. The vessel rolled and pitched, and we were carried far out of our course to the
Dalmatian coast. I was obliged to remain a couple of days at Trieste to rest, and was very
glad when we arrived at Venice. The summer passed most delightfully at Venice, and we had ample
time to see everything without hurry. I wrote very little this summer, for the scenery was
so beautiful that I painted all day; my daughters drew in the Belle Arti, and Somerville had
plenty of books to amuse him, besides sight-seeing, which occupied much of our time. In the
Armenian convent we met with Joseph Warten, an excellent mathematician and astronomer; he was
pastor at Neusatz, near Peterwardein in Hungary, and he was making a tour through Europe. He
asked me to give him a copy of the "Mechanism of the Heavens," and afterwards wrote in Latin
to Somerville and sent me some errors of the press he had met with in my book, but they were
of no use, as I never published a second edition. We returned to Rome by Ravenna, where we
stayed a couple of days, then travelled slowly along the Adriatic Coast From thence we went
by Gubbio and Perugia to Orvieto, one of the most interesting towns in Italy, and one seldom
visited at that time; now the railway will bring it into the regular track of travellers.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [A few extracts from letters, written and received during this
    summer by my mother, may not be without interest. Also parts of two
    from my mother's old and valued friend Miss Joanna Baillie. The
    second letter was written several years later, and is nearly the
    last she ever wrote to my mother.]

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.

    VENICE, 21st July, 1843.

    I most sincerely rejoice to hear that Agnes and you have gone to the
    Rhine, as I am confident a little change of air and scene will be of
    the greatest service to you both.... We are quite enchanted with
    Venice; no one can form an idea of its infinite loveliness who has
    not seen it in summer and in moonlight. I often doubt my senses, and
    almost fear it may be a dream. We are lodged to perfection, the
    weather has been charming, no oppressive heat, though the
    thermometer ranges from 75° to 80°, accompanied by a good deal of
    scirocco; there are neither flies nor fleas, and as yet the
    mosquitoes have not molested us. We owe much of our comfort to the
    house we are in, for there are scarcely any furnished lodgings, and
    the hotels are bad and dear, besides situation is everything at this
    season, when the smaller canals become offensive at low water, for,
    though there is little tide in the Mediterranean, there are four
    feet at new and full moon here, which is a great blessing. We have
    now seen everything, and have become acquainted with everybody, and
    met with kindness and attention beyond all description. Many of the
    great ducal families still exist, and live handsomely in their
    splendid palaces; indeed, the decay of Venice, so much talked of, is
    quite a mistake; certainly it is very different from what it was in
    its palmy days, but there is a good deal of activity and trade. The
    abolition of the law of primogeniture has injured the noble
    families more than anything else. We rise early, and are busy
    indoors all morning, except the girls, who go to the Academy of the
    Belle Arti, and paint from ten till three. We dine at four, and
    embark in our gondola at six or seven, and row about on the glassy
    sea till nine, when we go to the Piazza of San Marco, listen to a
    very fine military band, and sit gossiping till eleven or twelve,
    and then row home by the Grand Canal, or make a visit in one of the
    various houses that are open to us. One of the most remarkable of
    these is that of the Countess Mocenigo's, who has in one of her
    drawing-rooms the portraits of six doges of the Mocenigo name. I was
    presented by her to the Duc de Bordeaux, the other evening, a fat
    good-natured looking person. I was presented also to the Archduke--I
    forget what--son of the Archduke Charles, and admiral of the fleet
    here; a nice youth, but not clever. We meet him everywhere, and
    Somerville dined with him a few days ago. The only strangers of note
    are the Prince of Tour and Taxis, and Marshal Marmont. The Venetian
    ladies are very ladylike and agreeable, and speak beautifully. We
    have received uncommon kindness from Mr. Rawdon Brown; he has made
    us acquainted with everybody, as he is quite at home here, having
    been settled in Venice for several years, and has got a most
    beautiful house fitted up, in rococo style, with great taste; he
    is an adept at Venetian history. He supplies us with books, which
    are a great comfort.... The other evening we were surprised by a
    perfect fleet of gondolas stopping under our windows, from one of
    which we had the most beautiful serenade; the moonlight was like
    day, and the effect was admirable. There was a festa the other
    night in a church on the water's edge; the shore was illuminated
    and hundreds of gondolas were darting along like swallows, the
    gondoliers rowing as if they had been mad, till the water was as
    much agitated as if there had been a gale of wind: nothing could be
    more animated. You will perceive from what I have said that the
    evening, till a late hour, is the time for amusement, in consequence
    of which I follow the Italian custom of sleeping after dinner, and
    am much the better for it. This place agrees particularly well with
    all of us, and is well suited for old people, who require air
    without fatigue....

                                        Most affectionately,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.

    VENICE, 27th August, 1843.

    MY DEAR WORONZOW,

    Your excellent letter, giving an account of your agreeable
    expedition up the Rhine, did not arrive till nearly a month after it
    was written.... I regret exceedingly you could not stay longer, and
    still more that you could not come on and pay us a visit, and enjoy
    the charm of summer in Venice, so totally unlike every other place
    in every respect. I wished for you last night particularly. As we
    were leaving the Piazza San Marco, about eleven, a boat came up,
    burning blue lights, with a piano, violins, flutes, and about twenty
    men on board, who sang choruses in the most delightful manner, and
    sometimes solos. They were followed by an immense number of
    gondolas, and we joined the cortège, and all went under the Bridge
    of Sighs, where the effect was beautiful beyond description. We then
    all turned and entered the Grand Canal, which was entirely filled
    with gondolas from one side to the other, jammed together, so that
    we moved en masse, and stopped every now and then to burn blue or
    red Bengal lights before the principal palaces, singing going on all
    the while. We saw numbers of our Venetian friends in their gondolas,
    enjoying the scene as much as we did, to whom it was almost new. I
    never saw people who enjoyed life more, and they have much the
    advantage of us in their delicious climate and aquatic amusements,
    so much more picturesque than what can be done on land. However, we
    have had no less than three dances lately. The Grand Duke of Modena,
    with his son and daughter-in-law, were here, and to them a fête
    was given by the Countess de Thurn. The palace was brilliant with
    lights; it is on the grand canal, and immediately under the balcony
    was a boat from which fireworks were let off, and then a couple of
    boats succeeded them, in which choruses were sung. The view from the
    balcony is one of the finest in Venice, and the night was charming,
    and there I was while the dancing went on.... I never saw Somerville
    so well; this place suits us to the life, constant air and no
    fatigue; I never once have had a headache.... Now, my dear W., tell
    me your tale; my tale is done.

    ROME, PALAZZO LEPRI, VIA DEI CONDOTTI, 27th October, 1848.

    MY DEAREST WORONZOW,

    ... We had a beautiful journey to Rome, with fine weather and no
    annoyance, notwithstanding the disturbed state of the country. At
    Padua we only remained long enough to see the churches, and it was
    impossible to pass within a few miles of Arquà without paying a
    visit to the house of Petrarch. At Ferrara we had a letter to the
    Cardinal Legate, who was very civil. His palace is the ancient abode
    of the house of Este.... We had a long visit from him in the
    evening, and found him most agreeable; he regretted that there was
    no opera, as he would have been happy to offer us his box. Fourteen
    of those unfortunate men who have been making an attempt to raise an
    insurrection were arrested the day before; and the night before we
    slept at Lugo, the Carabineers had searched the inn during the
    night, entering the rooms where the people were sleeping. We should
    have been more than surprised to have been wakened by armed men at
    midnight. In travelling through Italy the reliques and history of
    the early Christians and of the Middle Ages have a greater
    attraction for me than those of either the Romans or Etruscans,
    interesting though these latter be, and in this journey my taste was
    amply gratified, especially at Ravenna, where the church of San
    Vitale and the Basilica of St. Apollinare in Classis, both built
    early in the 6th century, are the most magnificent specimens
    imaginable. Here also is the tomb of Theodore, a most wonderful
    building; the remains of his palace and numberless other objects of
    interest, too tedious to mention. Every church is full of them, and
    most valuable MSS. abound in the libraries. I like the history of
    the Middle Ages, because one feels that there is something in common
    between them and us; their names still exist in their descendants,
    who often inhabit the very palaces they dwelt in, and their very
    portraits, by the great masters, still hang in their halls; whereas
    we know nothing about the Greeks and Romans except their public
    deeds--their private life is a blank to us. Our journey through the
    Apennines was most beautiful, passing for days under the shade of
    magnificent oak forests or valleys rich in wine, oil, grain, and
    silk. We deviated from the main road for a short distance to Gubbio,
    to see the celebrated Eugubian tables, which are as sharp as if they
    had been engraved yesterday, but in a lost language. We stopped to
    rest at Perugia, but all our friends were at their country seats,
    which we regretted. The country round Perugia is unrivalled for
    richness and beauty, but it rained the morning we resumed our
    journey. It signified the less as we had been previously at Città
    della Pieve and Chiusi; so we proceeded to Orvieto in fine weather,
    still through oak forests. Orvieto is situated on the top of an
    escarped hill, very like the hill forts of India, and apparently as
    inaccessible; yet, by dint of numberless turns and windings, we did
    get up, but only in time for bed. Next morning we saw the sun rise
    on the most glorious cathedral. After all we had seen we were
    completely taken by surprise, and were filled with the highest
    admiration at the extreme beauty and fine taste of this remarkable
    building....

                                        Your affectionate mother,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE

    HAMPSTEAD, December 27th, 1843.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    Besides being proud of receiving a letter from you, I was much
    pleased to know that I am, though at such a distance, sometimes in
    your thoughts. I was much pleased, too, with what you have said of
    the health and other gratifications you enjoy in Italy. I should
    gladly have thanked you at the time, had I known how to address my
    letter; and after receiving your proper direction from our friend
    Miss Montgomery, I have been prevented from using it by various
    things.... But though so long silent I have not been ungrateful, and
    thank you with all my heart. The account you give of Venice is very
    interesting. There is something affecting in still seeing the
    descendants of the former Doges holding a diminished state in their
    remaining palaces with so much courtesy. I am sure you have found
    yourself a guest in their saloons, hung with paintings of their
    ancestors, with very mixed feelings. However, Venice to the eye, as
    you describe it, is Venice still; and with its lights at night
    gleaming upon the waters makes a very vivid picture to my fancy. You
    no doubt have fixed it on canvas, and can carry it about with you
    for the delight of your friends who may never see the original.

    In return to your kind inquiries after us, I have, all things
    considered, a very good account to give. Ladies of four score and
    upwards cannot expect to be robust, and need not be gay. We sit by
    the fire-side with our books (except when those plaguy notes are to
    be written) and receive the visits of our friendly neighbours very
    contentedly, and, I ought to say, and trust I may say, very
    thankfully.... This morning brought one in whom I feel sure that you
    and your daughters take some interest, Maria Edgeworth. She has been
    dangerously ill, but is now nearly recovered, and is come from
    Ireland to pass the winter months with her sisters in London: weak
    in body, but the mind as clear and the spirits as buoyant as ever.
    You will be glad to hear that she even has it in her thoughts to
    write a new work, and has the plan of it nearly arranged. There will
    be nothing new in the story itself, but the purpose and treating of
    it will be new, which is, perhaps, a better thing. In our retired
    way of living, we know little of what goes on in the literary
    world.... I was, however, in town for a few hours the other day, and
    called upon a lady of rank who has fashionable learned folks
    coming about her, and she informed me that there are new ideas
    regarding philosophy entertained in the world, and that Sir John
    Herschel was now considered as a slight, second-rate man, or person.
    Who are the first-rate she did not say, and, I suppose, you will not
    be much mortified to hear that your name was not mentioned at all.
    So much for our learning. My sister was much disappointed the other
    day when, in expectation of a ghost story from Mr. Dickens, she only
    got a grotesque moral allegory; now, as she delights in a ghost and
    hates an allegory, this was very provoking.

                             Believe me,
                                 My dear Mrs. Somerville,
                                     Yours with admiration and esteem,
                                                            J. BAILLIE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE

    HAMPSTEAD, January 9th, 1851.

    MY DEAR FRIEND,

    My dear Mary Somerville, whom I am proud to call my friend, and that
    she so calls me. I could say much on this point, but I dare not. I
    received your letter from Mr. Greig last night, and thank you very
    gratefully. If my head were less confused I should do it better, but
    the pride I have in thinking of you as philosopher and a woman
    cannot be exceeded. I shall read your letter many times over. My
    sister and myself at so great an age are waiting to be called away
    in mercy by an Almighty Father, and we part with our earthly friends
    as those whom we shall meet again. My great monster book is now
    published, and your copy I shall send to your son who will peep into
    it, and then forward it to yourself. I beg to be kindly and
    respectfully remembered to your husband; I offer my best wishes to
    your daughters....

                               Yours, my dear Friend,
                                          Very faithfully,
                                                     JOANNA BAILLIE.

    My sister begs of you and all your family to accept her best wishes.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    18th March, 1844.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    To have received a letter from you so long ago, and not yet to have
    thanked you for it, is what I could hardly have believed myself--if
    the rapid lapse of time in the uniform retirement in which we live
    were not pressed upon me in a variety of ways which convince me that
    as a man grows older, his sand, as the grains get low in the glass,
    slips through more glibly, and steals away with accelerated speed. I
    wish I could either send you a copy of my Cape observations, or tell
    you they are published or even in the press. Far from it--I do not
    expect to "go to press" before another year has elapsed, for though
    I have got my catalogues of Southern nebulæ and Double stars reduced
    and arranged, yet there is a great deal of other matter still to be
    worked through, and I have every description of reduction entirely
    to execute myself. These are very tedious, and I am a very slow
    computer, and have been continually taken off the subject by other
    matter, forced upon me by "pressure from without." What I am now
    engaged on is the monograph of the principal Southern Nebulæ, the
    object of which is to put on record every ascertainable particular
    of their actual appearance and the stars visible in them, so as to
    satisfy future observers whether new stars have appeared, or
    changes taken place in the nebulosity. To what an extent this work
    may go you may judge from the fact that the catalogue of visible
    stars actually mapped down in their places within the space of less
    than a square degree in the nebula about [Greek: ê] Argus which I have
    just completed comprises between 1300 and 1400 stars. This is indeed a
    stupendous object. It is a vastly extensive branching and looped
    nebula, in the centre of the densest part of which is [Greek: ê] Argus,
    itself a most remarkable star, seeing that from the fourth magnitude
    which it had in Ptolemy's time, it has risen (by sudden starts,
    and not gradually) to such a degree of brilliancy as now actually
    to surpass Canopus, and to be second only to Sirius. One of these
    leaps I myself witnessed when in the interval of ceasing to
    observe it in one year, and resuming its observation in two or three
    months after in the next, it had sprung over the heads of all the
    stars of the first magnitude, from Fomalhaut and Regulus (the two
    least of them) to [Greek: a] Centauri, which it then just equalled, and
    which is the brightest of all but Canopus and Sirius! It has since
    made a fresh jump--and who can say it will be the last?

    One of the most beautiful objects in the southern hemisphere is a
    pretty large, perfectly round, and very well-defined planetary nebula,
    of a fine, full independent blue colour--the only object I have ever
    seen in the heavens fairly entitled to be called independently blue,
    i.e., not by contrast. Another superb and most striking object is
    Lacaille's 30 Doradus, a nebula of great size in the larger nubicula,
    of which it is impossible to give a better idea than to compare it to a
    "true lover's knot," or assemblage of nearly circular nebulous loops
    uniting in a centre, in or near which is an exactly circular round dark
    hole. Neither this nor the nebula about [Greek: ê] Argus have any, the
    slightest, resemblance to the representations given of them by
    Dunlop.... As you are so kind as to offer to obtain information on any
    points interesting to me at Rome, here is one on which I earnestly
    desire to obtain the means of forming a correct opinion, i.e., the
    real powers and merits of De Vico's great refractor at the Collegio
    Romano. De Vico's accounts of it appear to me to have not a little of
    the extra-marvellous in them. Saturn's two close satellites regularly
    observed--eight stars in the trapezium of Orion! [Greek: a] Aquilæ (as
    Schumacher inquiringly writes to me) divided into three! the
    supernumerary divisions of Saturn's ring well seen, &c., &c. And all by
    a Cauchoix refractor of eight inches? I fear me that these wonders are
    not for female eyes, the good monks are too well aware of the
    penetrating qualities of such optics to allow them entry within the
    seven-fold walls of their Collegio. Has Somerville ever looked through
    it? On his report I know I could quite rely. As for Lord Rosse's great
    reflector, I can only tell you what I hear, having never seen it, or
    even his three feet one. The great one is not yet completed. Of the
    other, those who have looked through it speak in raptures. I met not
    long since an officer who, at Halifax in Nova Scotia, saw the comet
    at noon close to the sun, and very conspicuous the day after the
    perihelion passage.

    Your account of the pictures and other deliciæ of Venice makes our
    mouths water; but it is of no use, so we can only congratulate those
    who are in the full enjoyment of such things.

                                             Ever yours most truly,
                                                           J. HERSCHEL.

On returning to Rome I was elected Associate of the College of Risurgenti, and in the following
April I became an honorary member of the Imperial and Royal Academy of Science, Literature
and Art at Arezzo. I finished an edition of the Physical Sciences, at which I had been working,
and in spring Somerville hired a small house belonging to the Duca Sforza Cesarini, at Genzano,
close to and with a beautiful view of the Lake of Nemi; but as I had not seen my son for some
time, I now availed myself of the opportunity of travelling with our friend Sir Frederick Adam
to England. We crossed the Channel at Ostend, and at the mouth of the Thames lay the old "Venerable,"
in which my father was flag-captain at the battle of Camperdown. I had a joyful meeting with
my son and his wife, and we went to see many things that were new to me. One of our first expeditions
was to the British Museum. I had already seen the Elgin marbles, and the antiquities collected
at Babylon by Mr. Rich, when he was Consul at Bagdad, but now the Museum had been enriched
by the marbles from Halicarnassus, and by the marvellous remains excavated by Mr. Layard from
the ruins of Nineveh, the very site of which had been for ages unknown.

I frequently went to Turner's studio, and was always welcomed. No one could imagine that so
much poetical feeling existed in so rough an exterior. The water-colour exhibitions were very
good; my countrymen still maintained their superiority in that style of art, and the drawings
of some English ladies were scarcely inferior to those of first-rate artists, especially those
of my friend, Miss Blake, of Danesbury.

While in England I made several visits; the first was to my dear friends Sir John and Lady
Herschel, at Collingwood, who received me with the warmest affection. I cannot express the
pleasure it gave me to feel myself at home in a family where not only the highest branches
of science were freely discussed, but where the accomplishments and graces of life were cultivated.
I was highly gratified and proud of being godmother to Rosa, the daughter of Sir John and Lady
Herschel. Among other places near Collingwood I was taken to see an excellent observatory formed
by Mr. Dawes, a gentleman of independent fortune; and here I must remark, to the honour of
my countrymen, that at the time I am writing, there are twenty-six private observatories in
Great Britain and Ireland, furnished with first-rate instruments, with which some of the most
important astronomical discoveries have been made.

    [I received the following letter from my mother while we were at
    Genzano. It is one of several which record in her natural and
    unaffected words my mother's profound admiration for Sir John
    Herschel.]

    MRS. SOMERVILLE TO MISS SOMERVILLE.

    SYDENHAM, 1st September, 1844.
    Sunday Night.

    MY DEAR MARTHA,

    ... We go to the Herschels' to-morrow, and there I shall finish this
    letter, as it is impossible to get it in time for Tuesday's post,
    but I have so much to do now that you must not expect a letter every
    post, and I had no time to begin this before, and I am too tired to
    sit up later to-night....

    COLLINGWOOD, Monday.

    This appears to be a remarkably beautiful place, with abundance of
    fine timber.... W. brought your dear nice letter; it makes me long
    to be with you, and, please God, I shall be so before long, as I set
    off this day fortnight.

    Wednesday.

    Yesterday I had a great deal of scientific talk with Sir John, and
    a long walk in the grounds which are extensive, and very pretty.
    Then the Airys arrived, and we had a large party at dinner.... I
    think, now, as I always have done, that Sir John is by much the
    highest and finest character I have ever met with; the most
    gentlemanly and polished mind, combined with the most exalted
    morality, and the utmost of human attainment. His view of everything
    is philosophic, and at the same time highly poetical, in short, he
    combines every quality that is admirable and excellent with the most
    charming modesty, and Lady Herschel is quite worthy of such a
    husband, which is the greatest praise I can give her. Their kindness
    and affection for me has been unbounded. Lady H. told me she heard
    such praises of you two that she is anxious to know you, and she
    hopes you will always look upon her and her family as friends. The
    christening went off as well as possible. Mr. Airy was godfather,
    and Mrs. Airy and I godmothers, but I had the naming of the
    child--Matilda Rose, after Lady Herschel's sister. I assure you I
    was quite adroit in taking the baby from the nurse and giving her to
    the clergyman. Sir John took Mrs. Airy and me a drive to see a very
    fine picturesque castle a few miles off.... I have got loads of
    things for experiments on light from Sir John with a variety of
    papers, and you may believe that I have profited not a little by his
    conversation, and have a thousand projects for study and writing, so
    I think painting will be at a standstill, only that I have promised
    to paint something for Lady Herschel. Sir John computes four or five
    hours every day, and yet his Cape observations will not be finished
    for two years. I have seen everything he is or has been doing.

                                        Your affectionate mother,
                                                     MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [My mother continues her recollections of this journey.]

My next visit was to Lord and Lady Charles Percy at Guy's Cliff, in Warwickshire, a pretty
picturesque place of historical and romantic memory. The society was pleasant, and I was taken
to Kenilworth and Warwick Castle, on the banks of the Avon, a noble place, still bearing marks
of the Wars of the Roses. I never saw such magnificent oak-trees as those on the Leigh estate,
near Guy's Cliff.

I then visited my maiden namesake, Mrs. Fairfax, of Gilling Castle, Yorkshire. She was a highly
cultivated person, had been much abroad, and was a warm-hearted friend. I was much interested
in the principal room, for a deep frieze surrounds the wall, on which are painted the coats
of arms of all the families with whom the Fairfaxes have intermarried, ascending to very great
antiquity; besides, every pane of glass in a very large bay window in the same room is stained
with one of these coats of arms. Every morning after breakfast a prodigious flock of pea-fowl
came from the woods around to be fed.

I now went to the vicinity of Kelso to visit my brother and sister-in-law, General and Mrs.
Elliot, who lived on the banks of the Tweed. We went to Jedburgh, the place of my birth. After
many years I still thought the valley of the Jed very beautiful; I fear the pretty stream has
been invaded by manufactories: there is a perpetual war between civilization and the beauty
of nature. I went to see the spot from whence I once took a sketch of Jedburgh Abbey and the
manse in which I was born, which does not exist, I believe, now. When I was a very young girl
I made a painting from this sketch. Our next excursion was to a lonely village called Yetholm,
in the hills, some miles from Kelso, belonging to the gipsies. The "king" and the other men
were absent, but the women were civil, and some of them very pretty. Our principal object in
going there was to see a stone in the wall of a small and very ancient church at Linton, nearly
in ruins, on which is carved in relief the wyvern and wheel, the crest of the Somervilles.

From Kelso I went to Edinburgh to spend a few days with Lord Jeffrey and his family. No one
who had seen his gentle kindness in domestic life and the warmth of his attachment to his friends,
could have supposed he possessed that power of ridicule and severity which made him the terror
of authors. His total ignorance of science may perhaps excuse him for having admitted into
the "Review" Brougham's intemperate article on the undulatory theory of light, a discovery
which has immortalized the name of Dr. Young. I found Edinburgh, the city of my early recollections,
picturesque and beautiful as ever, but enormously increased both to the north and to the south.
Queen Street, which in my youth was open to the north and commanded a view of the Forth and
the mountains beyond, was now in the middle of the new town. All those I had formerly known
were gone--a new generation had sprung up, living in all the luxury of modern times. On returning
to London I spent a pleasant time with my son and his wife, who invited all those to meet me
whom they thought I should like to see.

    [My mother returned to Rome in autumn in company with an old friend
    and her daughter.]

       *     *     *     *     *

The winter passed without any marked event, but always agreeably; new people came, making a
pleasant variety in the society, which, though still refined, was beginning to be very mixed,
as was amusingly seen at Torlonia's balls and tableaux, where many of the guests formed a singular
contrast with the beautiful Princess, who was of the historical family of the Colonnas. I was
often ashamed of my countrymen, who, all the while speaking of the Italians with contempt,
tried to force themselves into their houses. Prince Borghese refused the same person an invitation
to a ball five times. I was particularly scrupulous about invitations, and never asked for
one in my life; nor did I ever seek to make acquaintances with the view of being invited to
their houses.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [The following letters give a sketch of life during the summer
    months at Rome:--]

    MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    ROME, 3rd August, 1845.

    MY DEAR WORONZOW,

    ... I am glad you are so much pleased with my bust, and that it is
    so little injured after having been at the bottom of the sea. You
    will find Macdonald a very agreeable and original person. As to
    spending the summer in Rome, you may make yourself quite easy, for
    the heat is very bearable, the thermometer varying between 75° and
    80° in our rooms during the day, which are kept in darkness, and at
    night it always becomes cooler. Thank God, we are all quite well,
    and Somerville particularly so; he goes out during the day to amuse
     himself, and the girls paint in the Borghese gallery. As for
    myself I have always plenty to do till half past three, when we
    dine, and after dinner I sleep for an hour or more, and when the sun
    is set we go out to wander a little, for a long walk is too
    fatiguing at this season. We have very little society, the only
    variety we have had was a very pretty supper party given by Signore
    Rossi, the French minister, to the Prince and Princess de Broglie,
    son and daughter-in-law of the duke. The young lady is extremely
    beautiful, and as I knew the late Duchesse de Broglie (Madame de
    Staël's daughter) we soon got acquainted. They are newly married,
    and have come to spend part of the summer in Rome, so you see people
    are not so much alarmed as the English.... We went yesterday evening
    to see the Piazza Navona full of water; it is flooded every Saturday
    and Sunday at this season; there is music, and the whole population
    of Rome is collected round it, carts and carriages splashing through
    it in all directions. I think it must be about three feet deep. It
    was there the ancient Romans had their naval games; and the custom
    of filling it with water in summer has lasted ever since. The
    fountain is one of the most beautiful in Rome, which is saying a
    great deal; indeed the immense gush of the purest water from
    innumerable fountains in every street and every villa is one of the
    peculiarities of Rome. I fear from what I have heard of those in
    Trafalgar Square that the quantity of water will be very miserable.

     The papers (I mean the Times), are full of abuse of Mr. Sedgwick
    and Dr. Buckland, but their adversaries write such nonsense that it
    matters little. I do not think I have anything to add to my new
    edition. If you hear of anything of moment let me know. Perhaps
    something may have transpired at the British Association....

                                        Your affectionate mother,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    ROME, May 28th, 1845.

    MY DEAR WORONZOW,

    I don't know why I have so long delayed writing to you. I rather
    think it is because we have been living so quiet a life, one day so
    precisely similar to the preceding, that there has been nothing
    worth writing about. This is our first really summer-like day, and
    splendid it is; but we are sitting in a kind of twilight. The only
    means of keeping the rooms cool is by keeping the house dark and
    shutting out the external air, and then in the evening we have a
    delightful walk; the country is splendid, the Campagna one sheet of
    deep verdure and flowers of every kind in abundance. We generally
    have six or seven large nosegays in the room; we have only to go to
    some of the neighbouring villas and gather them. Most of the English
    are gone; people make a great mistake in not remaining during the
    hot weather, this is the time for enjoyment. We are busy all the
    morning, and in the afternoon we take our book or drawing materials
    and sit on the grass in some of the lovely villas for hours; then we
    come home to tea, and are glad to see anyone who will come in for an
    hour or two. We have had a son of Mr. Babbage here. He is employed
    in making the railway that is to go from Genoa to Milan, and he was
    travelling with eight other Englishmen who came to make
    arrangements for covering Italy with a network of these iron roads,
    connecting all the great cities and also the two seas from Venice to
    Milan and Genoa and from Ancona by Rome to Civita Vecchia. However
    the Pope is opposed to the latter part, but they say the cardinals
    and people wish it so much that he will at last consent.... Many
    thanks for the Vestiges, &c. I think it a powerful production, and
    was highly pleased with it, but I can easily see that it will offend
    in some quarters; however it should be remembered that there has
    been as much opposition to the true system of astronomy and to
    geological facts as there can be to this. At all events free and
    open discussion of all natural and moral phenomena must lead to
    truth at last. Is Babbage the author? I rather think he would not be
    so careful in concealing his name....

    [My mother made some curious experiments upon the effect of the
    solar spectrum on juices of plants and other substances, of which
    she sent an account to Sir John Herschel, who answered telling her
    that he had communicated her account of her experiments to the Royal
    Society.]

       *     *     *     *     *

    SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    COLLINGWOOD, November 21st, 1845.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I cannot express to you the pleasure I experienced from the receipt
    of your letter and the perusal of the elegant experiments it
    relates, which appear to me of the highest interest and show (what I
    always suspected), that there is a world of wonders awaiting
    disclosure in the solar spectrum, and that influences widely
    differing from either light, heat or colour are transmitted to us
    from our central luminary, which are mainly instrumental in evolving
    and maturing the splendid hues of the vegetable creation and
    elaborating the juices to which they owe their beauty and their
    vitality. I think it certain that heat goes for something in
    evaporating your liquids and thereby causing some of your phenomena;
    but there is a difference of quality as well as of quantity of
    heat brought into view which renders it susceptible of analysis by
    the coloured juices so that in certain parts of the spectrum it is
    retained and fixed, in others reflected according as the nature of
    the tint favours the one or the other. Pray go on with these
    delightful experiments. I wish you could save yourself the fatigue
    of watching and directing your sunbeam by a clock work. If I were at
    your elbow I could rig you out a heliotrope quite sufficient with
    the aid of any common wooden clock.... Now I am going to take a
    liberty (but not till after duly consulting Mr. Greig with whose
    approbation I act, and you are not to gainsay our proceedings) and
    that is to communicate your results in the form of "an extract of a
    letter" to myself--to the Royal Society. You may be very sure that I
    would not do this if I thought that the experiments were not
    intrinsically quite deserving to be recorded in the pages of the
    Phil. Trans. and if I were not sure that they will lead to a vast
    field of curious and beautiful research; and as you have already
    once contributed to the Society, (on a subject connected with the
    spectrum and the sunbeam) this will, I trust, not appear in your
    eyes in a formidable or a repulsive light, and it will be a great
    matter of congratulation to us all to know that these subjects
    continue to engage your attention, and that you can turn your
    residence in that sunny clime to such admirable account. So do not
    call upon me to retract (for before you get this the papers will be
    in the secretary's hands).

    I am here nearly as much out of the full stream of scientific
    matters as you at Rome. We had a full and very satisfactory meeting
    at Cambridge of the British Association, with a full attendance of
    continental magnetists and meteorologists, and within these few days
    I have learned that our Government meant to grant all our requests
    and continue the magnetic and meteorological observations. Humboldt
    has sent me his Cosmos (Vol. I.), which is good, all but the first
    60 pages, which are occupied in telling his readers what his book is
    not to be. Dr. Whewell has just published another book on the
    Principles of Morals, and also another on education, in which he
    cries up the geometrical processes in preference to analysis....

                                        Yours very faithfully,
                                                  J. HERSCHEL.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Prince and Princesse de Broglie came to Rome in 1845, and Signore Pellegrino Rossi, at
this time French Minister at the Vatican, gave them a supper party, to which we were invited.
We had met with him long before at Geneva, where he had taken refuge after the insurrection
of 1821. He was greatly esteemed there and admired for his eloquence in the lectures he gave
in the University. It was a curious circumstance, that he, who was a Roman subject, and was
exiled, and, if I am not mistaken, condemned to death, should return to Rome as French Minister.
He had a remarkably fine countenance, resembling some ancient Roman bust. M. Thiers had brought
in a law in the French Chambers to check the audacity of the Jesuits, and Rossi was sent to
negotiate with the Pope. We had seen much of him at Rome, and were horrified, in 1848, to hear
that he had been assassinated on the steps of the Cancelleria, at Rome, where the Legislative
Assembly met, and whither he was proceeding to attend its first meeting. No one offered to
assist him, nor to arrest the murderers except Dr. Pantaleone, a much esteemed Roman physician,
and member of the Chamber, who did what he could to save him, but in vain; he was a great loss
to the Liberal cause.

Towards the end of summer we spent a month most agreeably at Subiaco, receiving much civility
from the Benedictine monks of the Sacro Speco, and visiting all the neighbouring towns, each
one perched on some hill-top, and one more romantically picturesque than the other. It was
in this part of the country that Claude Lorraine and Poussin studied and painted. I never saw
more beautiful country, or one which afforded so many exquisite subjects for a landscape painter.
We went all over the country on mules--to some of the towns, such as Cervara, up steep flights
of steps cut in the rock. The people, too, were extremely picturesque, and the women still
wore their costumes, which probably now they have laid aside for tweeds and Manchester cottons.

I often during my winters in Rome went to paint from nature in the Campagna, either with Somerville
or with Lady Susan Percy, who drew very prettily. Once we set out a little later than usual,
when, driving through the Piazza of the Bocca della Verità, we both called out, "Did you see
that? How horrible! "It was the guillotine; an execution had just taken place, and had we been
a quarter of an hour earlier we should have passed at the fatal moment. Under Gregory XVI.
everything was conducted in the most profound secrecy; arrests were made almost at our very
door, of which we knew nothing; Mazzini was busily at work on one side, the Jesuitical party
actively intriguing, according to their wont, on the other; and in the mean time society went
on gaily at the surface, ignorant of and indifferent to the course of events. We were preparing
to leave Rome when Gregory died. We put off our journey to see his funeral, and the Conclave,
which terminated, in the course of scarcely two days, in the election of Pius IX. We also saw
the new Pope's coronation, and witnessed the beginning of that popularity which lasted so short
a time. Much was expected from him, and in the beginning of his reign the moderate liberals
fondly hoped that Italy would unite in one great federation, with Pius IX. at the head of it;
entirely forgetting how incompatible a theocracy or government by priests ever must be with
all progress and with liberal institutions. Their hopes were soon blighted, and after all the
well-known events of 1848 and 1849, a reaction set in all over Italy, except in gallant little
Piedmont, where the constitution was maintained, thanks to Victor Emmanuel, and especially
to that great genius, Camillo Cavour, and in spite of the disastrous reverses at Novara. Once
more in 1859 Piedmont went to war with Austria, this time with success, and with the not disinterested
help of France. One province after another joined her, and Italy, freed from all the little
petty princes, and last, not least, from the Bourbons, has become that one great kingdom which
was the dream of some of her greatest men in times of old.

We went to Bologna for a short time, and there the enthusiasm for the new Pope was absolutely
intolerable. "Viva Pio Nono!" was shouted night and day. There was no repose; bands of music
went about the streets, playing airs composed for the occasion, and in the theatres it was
even worse, for the acting was interrupted, and the orchestra called upon to play the national
tunes in vogue, and repeat them again and again, amid the deafening shouts and applause of
the excited audience. We found the Bolognese very sociable, and it was by far the most musical
society I ever was in. Rossini was living in Bologna, and received in the evening, and there
was always music, amateur and professional, at his house. Frequently there was part-singing
or choruses, and after the music was over the evening ended with a dance. We frequently saw
Rossini some years later, when we resided at Florence. He was clever and amusing in conversation,
but satirical. He was very bitter against the modern style of opera-singing, and considered
the singers of the present day, with some exceptions, as wanting in study and finish. He objected
to much of the modern music, as dwelling too constantly on the highest notes of the voice,
whereby it is very soon deteriorated, and the singer forced to scream; besides which, he considered
the orchestral accompaniments too loud. I, who recollected Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, Rubini,
and others of that epoch, could not help agreeing with him when I compared them to the singers
I heard at the Pergola and elsewhere. The theatre, too, was good at Bologna, and we frequently
went to it.

One evening we were sitting on the balcony of the hotel, when we saw a man stab another in
the back of the neck, and then run away. The victim staggered along for a minute, and then
fell down in a pool of blood. He had been a spy of the police under Gregory XVI., and one of
the principal agents of his cruel government. He was so obnoxious to the people that his assassin
has never been discovered.

From Bologna we went for a few weeks to Recoaro, where I drank the waters, after which we travelled
to England by the St. Gothard pass.

We spent the autumn in visiting my relations on the banks of the Tweed. I was much out of health
at the time. As winter came on I got better, and was preparing to print my "Physical Geography"
when "Cosmos" appeared. I at once determined to put my manuscript in the fire when Somerville
said, "Do not be rash--consult some of our friends--Herschel for instance." So I sent the MS.
to Sir John Herschel, who advised me by all means to publish it. It was very favourably reviewed
by Sir Henry Holland in the "Quarterly," which tended much to its success. I afterwards sent
a copy of a later edition to Baron Humboldt, who wrote me a very kind letter in return.

       *     *     *     *     *

    BARON HUMBOLDT TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    A SANS SOUCI, ce 12 Juillet, 1849.

    MADAME,

    C'est un devoir bien doux à remplir, Madame, que de vous offrir
    l'hommage renouvellé de mon dévouement et de ma respectueuse
    admiration. Ces sentimens datent de bien loin chez l'homme
    antidiluvien auquel vous avez daigné adresser des lignes si aimables
    et la nouvelle édition de ce bel ouvrage qui m'a charmé et
    instruit dès qu'il avait paru pour la première fois. A cette
    grande supériorité que vous possedez et qui a si noblement illustré
    votre nom, dans les hautes régions de l'analyse mathématique, vous
    joignez, Madame, une variété de connaissances dans toutes les
    parties de la physique et de l'histoire naturelle descriptive. Après
    votre "Mechanism of the Heavens," le philosophique ouvrage
    "Connexion of the Physical Sciences" avait été l'objet de ma
    constante admiration. Je l'ai lu en entier et puis relu dans la
    septième édition qui a paru en 1846 dans les tems où nous étions
    plus calme, où l'orage politique ne grondait que de loin. L'auteur
    de l'imprudent "Cosmos" devoit saluer plus que tout autre la
    "Géographie Physique" de Mary Somerville. J'ai su me la procurer dès
    les premières semaines par les soins de notre ami commun le Chev.
    Bunsen. Je ne connais dans aucune langue un ouvrage de Géographie
    physique que l'on pourrait comparer au votre. Je l'ai de nouveau
    étudié dans la dernière édition que je dois à votre gracieuse
    bienveillance. Le sentiment de précision que vos habitudes de
    "Géomètre" vous ont si profondement imprimé, pénètre tous vos
    travaux, Madame. Aucun fait, aucune des grandes vues de la nature
    vous échappent. Vous avez profité et des livres et des conversations
    des voyageurs dans cette malheureuse Italie où passe la grande route
    de l'Orient et de l'Inde. J'ai été surpris de la justice de vos
    aperçus sur la Géographie des plantes et des animaux. Vous dominez
    dans ces régions comme en astronomie, en météorologie, en
    magnetisme. Que n'ajoutez-vous pas la sphère céleste, l'uranologie,
    votre patrimoine, à la sphère terrestre? C'est vous seule qui
    pourriez donner à votre belle litérature un ouvrage cosmologique
    original, un ouvrage écrit avec cette lucidité et ce goût que
    distingue tout ce qui est émané de votre plume. On a, je le sais,
    beaucoup de bienveillance pour mon Cosmos dans votre patrie; mais il
    en est des formes de composition littéraires, comme de la variété
    des races et de la différence primitive des langues. Un ouvrage
    traduit manque de vie; ce que plait sur les bords du Rhin doit
    paraître bizarre sur les bords de la Tamise et de la Seine. Mon
    ouvrage est une production essentiellement allemande, et ce
    caractère même, j'en suis sûr, loin de m'en plaindre lui donne le
    goût du terroir. Je jouis d'une bonne fortune à laquelle (à cause de
    mon long séjour en France, de mes prédilections personnelles, de mes
    hérésies politiques) le Léopard ne m'avait pas trop accoutumé. Je
    demande à l'illustre auteur du volume sur la Mécanique Céleste
    d'avoir le courage d'agrandir sa Géographie Physique. Je suis sûr
    que le grand homme que nous aimons le plus, vous et moi, Sir John
    Herschel, serait de mon opinion. Le MONDE, je me sers du titre que
    Descartes voulait donner à un livre dont nous n'avons que de pauvres
    fragmens; le Monde doit être écrit pour les Anglais par un auteur
    de race pure. Il n'y a pas de sève, pas de vitalité dans les
    traductions les mieux faites. Ma santé s'est conservé
    miraculeusement à l'âge de quatre-vingts ans, de mon ardeur pour le
    travail nocturne au milieu des agitations d'une position que je n'ai
    pas besoin de vous depeindre puisque l'excellente Mademoiselle
    de ---- vous l'a fait connaître. J'ai bouleversé, changé mes deux
    volumes des "Ansichten." Il n'en est resté que 1/4. C'est comme un
    nouvel ouvrage que j'aurai bientôt le bonheur de vous adresser si M.
    Cotta pense pouvoir hasarder une publication dans ces tems où la
    force physique croit guérir un mal moral et vacciner le
    contentement à l'Allemagne unitaire!! Le troisième volume de mon
    Cosmos avance, mais la sérénité manque aux âmes moins crédules.

    Agréez, je vous supplie, l'hommage de mon affectueuse et
    respectueuse reconnaissance,

                                             ALEXANDRE DE HUMBOLDT.

       *     *     *     *     *

Somerville and I spent the Christmas at Collingwood with our friends the Herschels. The party
consisted of Mr. Airy, Astronomer-Royal, and Mr. Adams, who had taken high honours at Cambridge.
This young man and M. Leverrier, the celebrated French astronomer, had separately calculated
the orbit of Neptune and announced it so nearly at the same time, that each country claims
the honour of the discovery. Mr. Adams told Somerville that the following sentence in the sixth
edition of the "Connexion of the Physical Sciences," published in the year 1842, put it into
his head to calculate the orbit of Neptune. "If after the lapse of years the tables formed
from a combination of numerous observations should be still inadequate to represent the motions
of Uranus, the discrepancies may reveal the existence, nay, even the mass and orbit of a body
placed for ever beyond the sphere of vision." That prediction was fulfilled in 1846, by the
discovery of Neptune revolving at the distance of 3,000,000,000 of miles from the sun. The
mass of Neptune, the size and position of his orbit in space, and his periodic time, were determined
from his disturbing action on Uranus before the planet itself had been seen.

We left Collingwood as ever with regret.

    [The following is an extract from a letter written by my mother
    during this visit:--]

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    COLLINGWOOD, 1st January, 1848.

    ... You can more easily conceive than I can describe the great
    kindness and affection which we have received from both Sir John and
    Lady Herschel; I feel a pride and pleasure beyond what I can
    express in having such friends. Collingwood is a house by itself in
    the world, there certainly is nothing like it for all that is great
    and good. The charm of the conversation is only equalled by its
    variety--every subject Sir John touches turns to doubly refined
    gold; profound, brilliant, amiable, and highly poetical, I could
    never end admiring and praising him. Then the children are so nice
    and he so kind and amusing to them, making them quite his friends
    and companions.

                              Yours, my dearest Woronzow,
                                        Most affectionately,
                                                  M. SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

We had formed such a friendship with Mr. Faraday that while we lived abroad he sent me a copy
of everything he published, and on returning to England we renewed our friendship with that
illustrious philosopher, and attended his lectures at the Royal Institution. He had already
magnetized a ray of polarised light, but was still lecturing on the magnetic and diamagnetic
properties of matter. At the last lecture we attended he showed the diamagnetism of flame,
which had been proved by a foreign philosopher. Mr. Faraday never would accept of any honour;
he lived in a circle of friends to whom he was deeply attached. A touching and beautiful memoir
was published of him by his friend and successor, Professor Tyndall, an experimental philosopher
of the very highest genius.

    [The following letter was the last my mother received from Faraday:--]

    FROM PROFESSOR FARADAY TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    ROYAL INSTITUTION, 17th January, 1859.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    So you have remembered me again, and I have the delight of receiving
    from you a new copy of that work which has so often instructed me;
    and I may well say, cheered me in my simple homely course through
    life in this house. It was most kind to think of me; but ah! how
    sweet it is to believe that I have your approval in matters where
    kindness would be nothing, where judgment alone must rule. I almost
    doubt myself when I think I have your approbation, to some degree at
    least, in what I may have thought or said about gravitation, the
    forces of nature, their conservation, &c. As it is, I cannot go
    back from these thoughts; on the contrary, I feel encouraged to go
    on by way of experiment, but am not so able as I was formerly; for
    when I try to hold the necessary group of thoughts in mind at one
    time, with the judgment suspended on almost all of them, then my
    head becomes giddy, and I am obliged to lay all aside for a while. I
    am trying for time in magnetic action, and do not despair of
    reaching it, even though it may be only that of light. Nous
    verrons.

    I have been putting into one volume various papers of mine on
    experimental branches in chemistry and physics. The index and
    title-page has gone to the printer, and I expect soon to receive
    copies from him. I shall ask Mr. Murray to help me in sending one to
    you which I hope you will honour by acceptance. There is nothing new
    in it, except a few additional pages about "regelation," and also
    "gravity." It is useful to get one's scattered papers together with
    an index, and society seems to like the collection sufficiently to
    pay the expenses.... Pray remember me most kindly to all with whom I
    may take that privilege, and believe me to be most truly,

                                   Your admirer and
                                         faithful servant,
                                             M. FARADAY.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [My mother wrote of this letter:--]

    FLORENCE, 8th February, 1859.

... I have had the most charming and gratifying letter from Faraday; I cannot tell you how
I value such a mark of approbation and friendship from the greatest experimental philosopher
and discoverer next to Newton.

       *     *     *     *     *

We returned to the continent in autumn, so I could not superintend the publication of my "Physical
Geography," but Mr. Pentland kindly undertook to carry it through the press. Though I never
was personally acquainted with Mr. Keith Johnston, of Edinburgh, that eminent geographer gave
me copies of both the first and second editions of his splendid "Atlas of Physical Geography,"
which were of the greatest use to me. Besides, he published some time afterwards a small "School
Atlas of Ancient, Modern, and Physical Geography," intended to accompany my work; obligations
which I gratefully acknowledge. No one has attempted to copy my "Connexion of the Physical
Sciences," the subjects are too difficult; but soon after the publication of the "Physical
Geography" a number of cheap books appeared, just keeping within the letter of the law, on
which account it has only gone through five editions. However a sixth is now required.

       *     *     *     *     *

The moment was unfavourable for going into Italy, as war was raging between Charles Albert
and the Austrians, so we resolved to remain at Munich, and wait the course of events. We got
a very pretty little apartment, well furnished with stoves, and opposite the house of the Marchese
Fabio Pallavicini, formerly Sardinian minister at Munich. We spent most of our evenings very
pleasantly at their house. We attended the concerts at the Odeon of classical music: the execution
was perfect, but the music was so refined and profound that it passed my comprehension, and
I thought it tedious. The hours at Munich were so early that the opera ended almost at the
time it began in London.

In the spring we went to Salzburg, where we remained all summer. We had an apartment in a dilapidated
old château, about an hour's walk from the town, called Leopold's Krone. The picturesque situation
of the town reminded me of the Castle and Old Town of Edinburgh. The view from our windows
was alpine, and the trees bordering the roads were such as I have rarely seen out of England.
We made many excursions to Berchtesgaden, where King Louis and his court were then living,
and went to the upper end of the Königsee. I have repeatedly been at sea in very stormy weather
without the smallest idea of fear; but the black, deep water of this lake, under the shadow
of the precipitous mountains, made a disagreeable impression on me. I thought if I were to
be drowned I should prefer the blue sea to that cold, black pool. The flora was lovely, and
on returning from our expeditions in the evening, the damp, mossy banks were luminous with
glowworms: I never saw so many, either before or since. We never fail to make acquaintances
wherever we go, and our friends at Munich had given us letters to various people who were passing
the summer there, many of whom had evening receptions once a week. At the Countess Irene Arco's
beautiful Gothic château of Anif, which rises out of a small pellucid lake, and is reached
by a bridge, we spent many pleasant evenings, as well as at Countess Bellegarde's, and at Aigen,
which belonged to the Cardinal Schwartzenberg. We never saw him, but went to visit his niece,
with whom we were intimate.

The war being over, we went by Innsbruck and the Brenner to Colà, on the Lago di Garda, within
five miles of Peschiera, where we spent a month with Count and Countess Erizzo Miniscalchi,
who had been our intimate friends for many years. The devastation of the country was frightful.
Peschiera and its fortifications were in ruins; the villages around had been burnt down, and
the wretched inhabitants were beginning to repair their roofless houses. Our friends themselves
had but recently returned to Colà, which, from its commanding situation, was always the headquarters
of whatever army was in possession of the country around. On this account, the family had to
fly more than once at the approach of the enemy. In 1848 the Countess had fled to Milan, and
was confined at the very time the Austrians under Radetsky were besieging the town, which was
defended by Charles Albert. Fearing what might occur when the city was surrendered, the lady,
together with her new-born infant and the rest of her family, escaped the next day with considerable
difficulty, and travelled to Genoa.

Although not acquainted with quite so many languages as Mezzofanti, Count Miniscalchi is a
remarkable linguist, especially with regard to Arabic and other oriental tongues. He has availed
himself of his talent, and published several works, the most interesting of which is a translation
of the Gospel of St. John from Syro-Chaldaic (the language probably spoken by our Saviour)
into Latin. The manuscript, from which this translation is made, is preserved in the Vatican.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [While we were at Colà my mother received a visit from a very
    distinguished and gifted lady, the Countess Bon-Brenzoni. As an
    instance of the feelings entertained by an Italian woman towards my
    mother, I insert a letter written by the Countess some time
    afterwards, and also an extract from her poems:--]

    FROM THE COUNTESS BON-BRENZONI TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    VERONA, 28 Maggio, 1853.

    ILLUSTRE SIGNORA,

    Fui molto contenta udendo che finalmente le sia giunto l'involto
    contenente le copie stampate del Carme, ch' ebbi l'onore di poterle
    offerire, mentre io era in gran pensiero non forse fossero insorte
    difficoltà, o ritardi, in causa della posta. Ma, ben più che per
    questo la sua graziosissima lettera mi fù di vera consolazione, per
    l'accoglienza tutta benevola e generosa ch' Ella fece a' miei versi.
    La ringrazio delle parole piene di bontà ch' Ella mi scrive, e di
    aversi preso la gentil cura di farlo in italiano; così potess' io
    ricambiarla scrivendo a Lei in inglese! Pur mi conforta la certezza
    che il linguaggio delle anime sia uno solo; mentre io non so s' io
    debba chiamar presunzione, o ispirazione questa, che mi fa credere,
    che esista fra la sua e la mia una qualche intelligenza, e
    quantunque i suoi meriti e la sua bontà me ne spieghino in gran
    parte il mistero, pure trovo essere cosa non comune questo pensiero,
    che al mio cuore parla di Lei incessantemente, da quel giorno ch' io
    l'ho veduta per la prima e l'unica volta!

    Ah se è vero che fra i sentimenti di compiacenza ch' Ella provò per
    gli elogi ottenuti de' suoi lavori, abbia saputo trovar luogo fra i
    più cari quello che le destò nell' animo l'espressione viva e
    sincera della mia ammirazione e del mio umile affetto, io raggiunsi
    un punto a cui certo non avea osato aspirare!

    Il trovarmi con Lei a Colà, od altrove che fosse, è uno de' miei più
    cari desideri, e son lieta delle sue parole che me ne danno qualche
    speranza.

     Voglia presentare i miei distinti doveri all' eccelente suo Sig^re
    marito ed alle amabili figlie; e mentre io le prego da Dio le più
    desiderabili benedizioni, Ella si ricordi di me siccome di una
    persona, che sebbene lontana fisicamente, le è sempre vicina coll'
    animo, nei sentimenti della più affetuosa venerazione.

           Incoraggiata dalla sua bontà, mi onoro segnarmi
                                         amica affezionatissima
                                             CATERINA BON-BRENZONI.

The "Carme" spoken of in the above letter form a long poem on modern astronomy, entitled "I
Cieli," (published by Vallardi. Milan: 1853). The opening lines contain the following address
to Mrs. Somerville,--doubtless a genuine description of the author's feelings on first meeting
the simple-mannered lady whose intellectual greatness she had long learned to appreciate:--

    Donna, quel giorno ch' io ti vidi in prima,
    Dimmi, hai Tu scôrto sul mio volto i segni
    Dell' anima commossa?--Hai Tu veduto
    Come trepida innanzi io ti venia,
    E come reverenza e maraviglia
    Tenean sospesa sull' indocil labbro
    La parola mal certa?--Ah! dimmi, hai scôrto
    Come fur vinte dall' affetto allora
    Che t'udii favellar soave e piana,
    Coll' angelica voce e l'umiltade,
    Che a' suoi più cari sapïenza insegna?--
    Questa, io dicea tra me, questa è Colei,
    Di che le mille volte udito ho il nome
    Venerato suonar tra i più famosi?
    Questa è Colei che negli eterei spazj
    Segue il cammin degli astri, e ne misura
    Peso, moto, distanza, orbita e luce?

       *     *     *     *     *

Another record of our visit to Colà is in a letter of my mother to my brother.

    MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    TURIN, 4th Dec., 1849.

    MY DEAREST WORONZOW,

    We arrived here all well the day before yesterday, after a fair but
    bitterly cold journey, bright sunshine and keen frost, and to-day we
    have a fall of snow.... It was a great disappointment not finding
    letters here, and I fear many have been lost on both sides, though
    we took care not to touch on political events, as all letters are
    opened by the Austrian police in Lombardy. We spent five weeks with
    our friends the Miniscalchis very agreeably, and received every mark
    of kindness and hospitality. They only live at Verona during the
    winter, and we found them in their country house at Colà situated on
    a height overlooking the Lago di Garda, with the snowy Alps on the
    opposite side of the lake. The view from their grounds is so fine
    that I was tempted to paint once more. They took us to see all the
    places in the neighbourhood; often a sad sight, from having been the
    seat of war and siege. The villages are burnt and the churches in
    ruin. But the people are repairing the mischief as fast as possible,
    and the fields are already well cultivated. The Count is a man of
    great learning and is occupied in the comparison of languages,
    especially the Eastern; he knows twenty-four and speaks Arabic as
    fluently as Italian. He is in the habit of speaking both Arabic and
    Chaldee every day, as there is a most learned Chaldean priest living
    with them, whose conversation gave me great pleasure and much
    information. The Count has moreover a black servant who speaks these
    languages, having been bought by the Count during his long
    residence in the East, and is now treated like one of the family. I
    obtained much information which will be useful in my next edition of
    the Physical Geography....

                                        Your affectionate mother,
                                                   MARY SOMERVILLE.

    [After my mother's death, our old friend Count Miniscalchi made a
    beautiful and touching "éloge" on her at a meeting of the Royal
    Italian Geographical Society, to a numerous audience assembled in
    the great hall of the Collegio Romano at Rome.

    My mother was an honorary member of this Society, besides which the
    first gold medal granted by them was voted by acclamation to her.
    Her Recollections continue as follows:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

From Colà we went to Turin, where I became personally acquainted with Baron Plana, Director
of the Observatory. He had married a niece of the illustrious mathematician La Grange, who
proved the stability of the solar system. Plana, himself, was a very great analyst; his volume
on the Lunar Perturbations is a work of enormous labour. He gave me a copy of it and of all
his works; for I continued to have friendly intercourse with him as long as he lived. As soon
as he heard of our arrival, he came to take us out to drive. I never shall forget the beauty
of the Alps, and the broad valley of the Po and Dora, deeply covered with snow, and sparkling
in bright sunshine. Another day the Baron took us to a church, from the cupola of which a very
long pendulum was swinging, that we might see the rotation of the earth visibly proved by its
action on the pendulum, according to M. Foucault's experiment. He devoted his time to get us
established, and we found a handsome apartment in Casa Cavour, and became acquainted with both
the brothers to whom it belonged. Count Camillo Cavour, then Minister of the Interior, was
the only great statesman Italy ever produced in modern times. His premature death is deplorably
felt at the present day. He was a real genius, and the most masterly act of his administration
was that of sending an army to act in concert with the French and English in the Crimean war.
By it he at once gave Italy the rank of an independent European power, which was the first
step towards Italian unity. He was delightful and cheerful in society, and extremely beloved
by his family and friends.

       *     *     *     *     *

In spring we hired a villa on the Colline above Turin. The house was in a garden, with a terrace,
whence the ground sank rapidly to the plain; low hills, clothed with chestnut forests, abounding
in lilies of the valley, surrounded us behind. The summer had been stormy, and one evening
we walked on the terrace to look at the lightning, which was very fine, illuminating the chain
of Alps. By-and-by it ceased, and the darkness was intense; but we continued to walk, when,
to our surprise, a pale bluish light rose in the Val di Susa, which gradually spread along
the summit of the Alps, and the tops of the hills behind our house; then a column of the same
pale blue light, actually within our reach, came curling up from the slope close to the terrace,
exactly as if wet weeds had been burning. In about ten minutes the whole vanished; but in less
than a quarter of an hour the phenomena were repeated exactly as described, and were followed
by a dark night and torrents of rain. It was a very unusual instance of what is known as electric
glow; that is, electricity without tension.

On our road to Genoa, we went to see some kind Piedmontese friends, who have a château in the
Monferrat, not many miles from Asti, where we left the railroad. We had not gone many miles
when the carriage we had hired was upset, and, although nobody had broken bones, I got so severe
a blow on my forehead that I was confined to bed for nearly a month, and my face was black
and blue for a much longer time. Nothing could equal the unwearied kindness of our friends
during my illness.

When I was able to travel, we went to Genoa for the winter, and lived on the second floor of
a large house on the Acqua Sola, and overlooking the sea. Here first began our friendship with
the Marchesa Teresa Doria, whose maiden name was Durazzo; in her youth one of the handsomest
women in Genoa, a lady distinguished for her generous character and cultivated mind, and who
fearlessly avowed her opinions at a time when it was a kind of disgrace to be called a Liberal.
Her youngest son, Giacomo, has devoted his life to the study of natural history, and his mother
used all her influence to encourage and help him in a pursuit so unusual amongst people of
rank in this country. Later, he travelled in Persia for two years, to make collections, and
since then resided for a long time in Borneo, and is now arranging a museum in his native city.
The Marchesa has always been a warm and devoted friend to me and mine.

It was here that we got our dear old parrot Lory, who is still alive and merry.

       *     *     *     *     *

Our next move was to Florence, where we already knew many people. We had a lease of a house
in Via del Mandorlo, which had a small garden and a balcony, where we often sat and received
in the warm summer evenings. My daughters had adorned it and the garden with rare creepers,
shrubs, and flowers.

We had a visit from our friend Gibson, as he passed through Florence on his way to Switzerland.
He told us the history of his early life, as given in his biography, and much that is not mentioned
there. He was devotedly attached to the Queen, and spoke of her in his simple manner as a charming
lady.

Miss Hosmer was travelling with Gibson, an American young lady, who was his pupil, and of whose
works he was very proud. He looked upon her as if she had been his daughter, and she took care
of him; for he was careless and forgetful when travelling. I have the sincerest pleasure in
expressing my admiration for Miss Hosmer, who has proved by her works that our sex possesses
both genius and originality in the highest branches of art.

It was at Florence that I first met my dear friend and constant correspondent, Frances Power
Cobbe. She is the cleverest and most agreeable woman I ever met with, and one of the best.
There is a distant connection between us, as one of her ancestors married a niece of Lord Fairfax,
the Parliamentary general, many of whose letters are in the possession of her family. A German
professor of physiology at Florence roused public indignation by his barbarous vivisections,
and there was a canvass for a Memorial against this cruel practice. Miss Cobbe took a leading
part in this movement, and I heartily joined, and wrote to all my acquaintances, requesting
their votes; among others, to a certain Marchese, who had published something on agriculture.
He refused his vote, saying, "Perhaps I was not aware that the present state of science was
one of induction." Then he went on explaining to me what "induction" meant, &c., &c., which
amused me not a little. It made my family very indignant, as they thought it eminently presumptuous,
addressed to me by a man who, though a good patriot and agriculturist, knew nothing whatever
about science, past or present. A good deal of political party spirit was brought into play
in this instance, as is too often the case here. It is not complimentary to the state of civilisation
in Italy, that in Russia and Poland, both of them very far behind her in many respects, there
should exist societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals, to which all the most distinguished
people have given their names.

    [I rejoice to say that this stain on Italian civilisation is now
    wiped away. My mother just lived to hail the formation of the
    Società Protettrice degli Animali.--ED.]

In summer we sometimes made excursions to avoid the heat of Florence. One year we went to Valombrosa
and the convents of La Vernia, and Camaldoli, which are now suppressed. We travelled on mules
or ponies, as the mountain paths are impracticable to carriages. I was disappointed in Valombrosa
itself, but the road to it is beautiful. La Vernia is highly picturesque, there we remained
two days, which I spent in drawing. The trees round the convent formed a striking contrast
to the arid cliffs we had passed on the road. The monks were naturally delighted to see strangers.
They belonged to the order of St. Francis, and each in his turn wandered over the country begging
and living on the industry of others. We did not pay for our food and lodging, but left much
more than an equivalent in the poor-box. Somerville slept in the convent, and we ladies were
lodged in the so-called Foresteria outside; but even Somerville was not admitted into the clausura
at Camaldoli, for the monks make a vow of perpetual silence and solitude. Each had his little
separate hut and garden, and some distance above the convent, on the slopes of the Apennines,
they had an establishment called the Eremo, for those who sought for even greater solitude.
The people told us that in winter, when deep snow covers the whole place, wolves are often
seen prowling about. Not far from the Eremo there is a place from whence both the Mediterranean
and the Adriatic can be seen.

We occasionally went for sea-bathing to Viareggio, which is built on a flat sandy beach. The
loose sand is drifted by the wind into low hillocks, and bound together by coarse grass thickly
coated with silex. Among this and other plants a lovely white amaryllis, the Pancratium Maritimum,
with a sweet and powerful perfume, springs up. We often tried to get the bulb, but it lay too
deep under the sand. One evening we had gone a long way in search of these flowers, and sat
down to rest, though it was beginning to be dark. We had not sat many minutes when we were
surrounded by a number of what we supposed to be bats trying to get at the flowers we had gathered,
but at length we discovered that they were enormous moths, which followed us home, and actually
flew into the room to soar over the flowers and suck the honey with their long probosces. They
were beautiful creatures with large red eyes on their wings.

       *     *     *     *     *

Our life at Florence went on pretty much as usual when all at once cholera broke out of the
most virulent kind. Multitudes fled from Florence; often in vain, for it prevailed all through
Tuscany to a great extent. The terrified people were kneeling to the Madonna and making processions,
after which it was remarked that the number of cases was invariably increased. The Misericordia
went about in their fearful costume, indefatigable in carrying the sick to the hospitals. The
devotion of that society was beyond all praise; the young and the old, the artisan and the
nobleman, went night and day in detachments carrying aid to the sufferers, not in Florence
only, but to Fiesole and the villages round. We never were afraid, but we consulted Professor
Zanetti, our medical adviser, whether we should leave the town, which we were unwilling to
do, as we thought we should be far from medical assistance, and he said, "By no means; live
as usual, drive out as you have always done, and make not the smallest change." We followed
his advice, and drove out every afternoon till near dark, and then passed the rest of the evening
with those friends who, like ourselves, had remained in town. None of us took the disease except
one of our servants, who recovered from instant help being given.

The Marquis of Normanby was British minister at that time, and Lady Normanby and he were always
kind and hospitable to us. At her house we became acquainted with Signora Barbieri-Nini, the
celebrated opera-singer, who had retired from the stage, and lived with her husband, a Sienese
gentleman, in a villa not far from Villa Normanby. She gave a musical party, to which she invited
us. The music, which was entirely artistic, was excellent, the entertainment very handsome,
and it was altogether very enjoyable. As we were driving home afterwards, late at night, going
down the hill, our carriage ran against one of the dead carts which was carrying those who
had died that day to the burying-ground at Trespiano. It was horribly ghastly--one could distinguish
the forms of the limbs under the canvas thrown over the heap of dead. The burial of the poor
and rich in Italy is in singular contrast; the poor are thrown into the grave without a coffin,
the rich are placed in coffins, and in full dress, which, especially in the case of youth and
infancy, leaves a pleasant impression. An intimate friend of ours lost an infant, and asked
me to go and see it laid out. The coffin, lined with white silk, was on a table, covered with
a white cloth, strewed with flowers, and with a row of wax lights on either side. The baby
was clothed in a white satin frock, leaving the neck and arms bare; a rose-bud was in each
hand, and a wreath of rose-buds surrounded the head, which rested on a pillow. Nothing could
be prettier; it was like a sleeping angel.

       *     *     *     *     *

Pio Nono had lost his popularity before he came to visit the Grand Duke of Tuscany. The people
received him respectfully, but without enthusiasm; nevertheless, Florence was illuminated in
his honour. The Duomo, Campanile, and the old tower in the Piazza dei Signori were very fine,
but the Lung' Arno was beautiful beyond description; the river was full, and reflected the
whole with dazzling splendour.

I made the acquaintance of Signore Donati, afterwards celebrated for the discovery of one of
the most brilliant comets of this century, whose course and changes I watched with the greatest
interest. On one occasion I was accompanied by my valued friend Sir Henry Holland, who had
come to Florence during one of his annual journeys. I had much pleasure in seeing him again.

Political parties ran very high in Florence; we sympathised with the Liberals, living on intimate
terms with the chief of them. As soon as the probability of war between Piedmont and Austria
became known, many young men of every rank, some even of the highest families, hastened to
join as volunteers. The most sanguine long hoped that the Grand Duke might remember that he
was an Italian prince rather than an Austrian archduke, and would send his troops to join the
Italian cause; but his dynasty was doomed, and he blindly chose the losing side. At last the
Austrians crossed the Mincio, and the war fairly broke out, France coming to the assistance
of Piedmont. The enthusiasm of the Tuscans could then no longer be restrained, and on the 27th
April 1859, crowds of people assembled on the Piazza dell' Indipendenza, and raised the tri-coloured
flag. The government, who, the day before, had warning of what was impending, had sent sealed
orders to the forts of Belvedere and del Basso, which, when opened on the eventful morning,
were found to contain orders for the bombardment of the town. This the officers refused to
do, after which the troops joined the popular cause. When this order became generally known,
as it soon did, it proved the last blow to the dynasty, although the most eminent and respected
Liberals used their best efforts during the whole of the 27th to restore harmony between the
Grand Duke and the people. They advised his immediate abdication in favour of his son, the
Archduke Ferdinand, the proclamation of the Constitution, and of course insisted on the immediate
alliance with Piedmont as their principal condition. It was already too late! All was of no
avail, and in the evening, whilst we were as usual at the Cascine, the whole Imperial family,
accompanied by the Austrian minister, and escorted by several of the Corps Diplomatique, drove
round the walls from Palazzo Pitti to Porta San Gallo unmolested amid a silent crowd, and crossing
the frontier on the Bologna road, bade farewell for ever to Tuscany. The obnoxious ministers
were also permitted to retire unnoticed to their country houses.

Thus ended this bloodless revolution; there was no disorder of any kind, which was due to the
young men belonging to the principal families of Florence, such as Corsini, Incontri, Farinola,
and others, using their influence with the people to calm and direct them. Indeed, so quiet
was everything that my daughters walked about the streets, as did most ladies, to see what
was going on; the only visible signs of the revolution throughout the whole day were bands
of young men with tri-coloured flags and cockades shouting national songs at the top of their
voices. As I have said already, we took our usual drive to the Cascine after dinner, and went
to the theatre in the evening; the streets were perfectly quiet, and next morning the people
were at work as usual. Sir James Scarlett was our minister, and had a reception the evening
after these events, where we heard many predictions of evil which never were fulfilled. The
least of these was the occupation of Florence by a victorious Austrian army. The Tuscan archdukes
precluded all chance of a restoration by joining the Austrian army, and being present at the
battle of Solferino. At Florence a provisional government was formed with Bettino Ricasoli
at its head; a parliament assembled three times in the Sala dei Cinquecento, in the Palazzo
Vecchio, and voted with unanimity the expulsion of the House of Lorraine, and the annexation
of Tuscany to the kingdom of Italy. In the meantime the French and Italian arms were victorious
in Lombardy. As, however, it is not my intention to give an historical account of the revolution
of 1859, but merely to jot down such circumstances as came under my own immediate notice, I
shall not enter into any particulars regarding the well-known campaign which ended in the cession
of Milan and Lombardy to Italy.

We were keenly interested in the alliance between the Emperor Napoleon and the King of Italy,
in hopes the Quadrilateral would be taken, and Venice added to the Italian States. We had a
map of Northern Italy spread on a table, and from day to day we marked the positions of the
different headquarters with coloured-headed pins. I can hardly describe our indignation when
all at once peace was signed at Villafranca, and Napoleon received Nice and Savoy in recompense
for his aid, which were given up to him without regard to the will of the people. When the
peace was announced in Tuscany it caused great consternation and disgust; the people were in
the greatest excitement, fearing that those rulers so obnoxious to them might by this treaty
be again forced upon them; and it required the firm hand of Ricasoli to calm the people, and
induce the King to accept the annexation which had been voted without one dissentient voice.

Baron Ricasoli had naturally many enemies amongst the Codini, or retrograde party. Hand-grenades
were thrown against the door of his house, as also at those of other ministers, but without
doing harm. One evening my daughters were dressing to go to a ball that was to take place at
the Palazzo delle Crocelle, close to us, in a street parallel to ours, when we were startled
by a loud explosion. An attempt had been made to throw a shell into the ball-room, which had
happily failed. The streets were immediately lined with soldiers, and the ball, which was given
by the Ministers, as far as I recollect, took place.

When the war broke out, a large body of French troops, commanded by Prince Jerôme Napoleon,
came to Florence, and were bivouacked in the Cascine. The people in the streets welcomed them
as deliverers from the Austrians, whose occupation of Tuscany, when first we came to reside
in Florence, was such a bitter mortification to them, and one of the causes of the unpopularity
of the Grand Duke, whom they never forgave for calling in the Austrian troops after 1848. The
French camp was a very pretty sight; some of the soldiers playing at games, some mending their
clothes, or else cooking. They were not very particular as to what they ate, for one of my
daughters saw a soldier skin a rat and put it into his soup-kettle.

We were invited by the Marchesa Lajatico, with whom we were very intimate, to go and see the
entry of Victor Emmanuel into Florence from the balcony of the Casa Corsini in the Piazza del
Prato, where she resides. The King was received with acclamation: never was anything like the
enthusiasm. Flowers were showered down from every window, and the streets were decorated with
a taste peculiar to the Italians.

    [I think the following extracts from letters written by my mother
    during the year 1859 and the following, ever memorable in Italian
    history, may not be unwelcome to the reader. My mother took the
    keenest interest in all that occurred. Owing to the liberal opinions
    she had held from her youth, and to which she was ever constant, all
    her sympathies were with the Italian cause, and she rejoiced at
    every step which tended to unite all Italy in one kingdom. She lived
    to see this great revolution accomplished by the entry of Victor
    Emmanuel into Rome as King of Italy; a consummation believed by most
    politicians to be a wild dream of poets and hot-headed patriots, but
    now realised and accepted as a matter of course. My mother had
    always firm faith in this result, and it was with inexpressible
    pleasure she watched its completion. Our intimacy with the leading
    politicians both in Tuscany and Piedmont naturally added to our
    interest. Ricasoli, Menabrea, Peruzzi, Minghetti, &c., we knew
    intimately, as well as Camillo Cavour, the greatest statesman Italy
    ever produced. No one who did not witness it can imagine the grief
    and consternation his death occasioned, and of which my mother
    writes in a letter dated June 19th, 1861.]

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, May 5th, 1859.

    MY DEAREST W.,

    Your letter of the 28th would have made me laugh heartily were we
    not annoyed that you should have suffered such uneasiness on our
    account; the panic in England is ridiculous and most unfounded. The
    whole affair has been conducted with perfect unanimity and
    tranquillity, so that there has been no one to fight with. The
    Austrians are concentrated in Lombardy, and not in Tuscany, nor is
    there any one thing to disturb the perfect peace and quietness which
    prevail over the whole country; not a soul thinks of leaving
    Florence. You do the greatest injustice to the Tuscans. From first
    to last not a person has been insulted, not a cry raised against
    anyone; even the obnoxious ministers were allowed to go to their
    country houses without a word of insult, and troops were sent with
    the Grand Duke to escort him and his family to the frontier. Martha
    and Mary went all through the town the morning of the revolution,
    which was exactly like a common festa, and we found the
    tranquillity as great when we drove through the streets in the
    afternoon. The same quiet still prevails, the people are at their
    usual employments, the theatres and private receptions go on as
    usual, and the provisional government is excellent. Everyone knew of
    the revolution long before it took place and the quietness with
    which it was to be conducted. I am grieved at the tone of English
    politics; and trust, for the honour of the country and humanity,
    that we do not intend to make war upon France and Sardinia. It would
    be a disgrace and everlasting stigma to make a crusade against the
    oppressed, being ourselves free. The people here have behaved
    splendidly, and we rejoice that we have been here to witness such
    noble conduct. No nation ever made such progress as the Tuscans have
    done since the year '48. Not a word of republicanism, it has never
    been named. All they want is a constitutional government, and this
    they are quietly settling....

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, 29th May, 1859.

    ... Everything is perfectly quiet here; the Tuscans are giving money
    liberally for carrying on the war. We have bought quantities of old
    linen, and your sisters and I spend the day in making lint and
    bandages for the wounded soldiers; great quantities have already
    been sent to Piedmont. Hitherto the war has been favourable to the
    allied army. God grant that England may not enter into the contest
    till the Austrians are driven out of Italy! After that point has
    been gained, our honour would be safe. To take part with the
    oppressors and maintain despotism in Italy would be infamous.
    Tuscany is to be occupied by a large body of troops under the
    command of Prince Napoleon. A great many are already encamped on the
    meadows at the Cascine--fine, spirited, merry young men; many of
    them have the Victoria medal. They are a thorough protection against
    any attack by the Austrians, of which, however, there is little
    chance, as they have enough to do in Lombardy. There is to be a
    great affair this morning at nine o'clock; an altar is raised in the
    middle of the camp, and the tricolour (Italian) flag is to be
    blessed amidst salvoes of cannon. Your friend, Bettino Ricasoli, is
    thought by far the most able and statesmanlike person in Tuscany; he
    is highly respected. Martha and I dined with Mr. Scarlett, and met
    ... who said if the Grand Duke had not been the most foolish and
    obstinately weak man in the world, he might still have been on the
    throne of Tuscany; but that now he has made that impossible by going
    to Vienna and allowing his two sons to enter the Austrian army....
    We have had a visit from Dr. Falconer, his two nieces and brother.
    They had been spending the winter in Sicily, where he discovered
    rude implements formed by man mixed with the bones of prehistoric
    animals in a cave, so hermetically shut up that not a doubt is left
    of a race of men having lived at a period far anterior to that
    assigned as the origin of mankind. Similar discoveries have recently
    been made elsewhere. Dr. Falkner had travelled much in the
    Himalayas, and lived two years on the great plain of Tibet; the
    account he gave me of it was most interesting. His brother had spent
    fifteen years in Australia, so the conversation delighted me; I
    learnt so much that was new. I am glad to hear that the Queen has
    been so kind to my friend Faraday; it seems she has given him an
    apartment at Hampton Court nicely fitted up. She went to see it
    herself, and having consulted scientific men as to the instruments
    that were necessary for his pursuits, she had a laboratory fitted up
    with them, and made him a present of the whole. That is doing things
    handsomely, and no one since Newton has deserved it so much.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, 5th June, 1859.

    ... All is perfectly quiet; a large body of French troops are now in
    Tuscany, and many more are expected probably to make a diversion on
    this side of the Austrian army through Modena; but nothing is known;
    the most profound secrecy is maintained as to all military
    movements. Success has hitherto attended the allied army, and the
    greatest bravery has been shown. The enthusiasm among the men
    engaged is excessive, the King of Sardinia himself the bravest of
    the brave, but exposes himself so much that the people are making
    petitions to him to be more careful. The Zouaves called out in the
    midst of the battle, "Le roi est un Zouave!" Prince Napoleon keeps
    very quiet, and avoids shewing himself as much as possible. The
    French troops are very fine indeed--young, gay, extremely civil and
    well bred. The secrecy is quite curious; even the colonels of the
    regiments do not know where they may be sent till the order comes:
    so all is conjecture.... The young King of Naples seems to follow
    the footsteps of his father; I hope in God that we may not protect
    and defend him. How anxious we are to know what the House of Commons
    will do! Let us hope they will take the liberal side; but the
    conservative party seems to be increasing.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, 22nd August, 1859.

    ... Public affairs go on admirably. A few weeks ago the elections
    took place of the members of the Tuscan parliament with a calm and
    tranquillity of which you have no idea. Every proprietor who pays 15
    pauls of taxes (75 pence) has a vote. There are 180 members,
    consisting of the most ancient nobility, the richest proprietors,
    the most distinguished physicians and lawyers, and the most
    respectable merchants. They hold their meetings in the magnificent
    hall of the Palazzo Vecchio--the Sala Dei Cinquecento. The first two
    or three days were employed in choosing a president &c., &c.; then a
    day was named to determine the fate of the house of Lorraine. I
    could not go, but Martha went with a Tuscan friend. There was no
    speaking; the vote was by ballot, and each member separately went up
    to a table before the president, and silently put his ball into a
    large vase. Two members poured the balls into a tray, and on
    examination, said, "No division is necessary; they are all
    black,"--which was followed by long and loud cheering. They have
    been equally unanimous in the Legations in Parma and Modena; and the
    wish of the people is to form one kingdom of these four states under
    an Italian prince, excluding all Austrians for ever. The union is
    perfect, and the determination quiet but deep and unalterable. If
    the Archduke is forced upon them, it must be by armed force, which
    the French emperor will not likely permit, after the Archduke was
    fool enough to fight against him at Solferino. All the four states
    have unanimously voted union with Piedmont; but they do not expect
    it to be granted. The destinies of Europe are now dependent on the
    two emperors....

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, 23rd April, 1860.

    You would have had this letter sooner, my dearest Woronzow, if I had
    not been prevented from writing to you yesterday evening.... The
    weather has been atrocious; deluges of rain night and day, and so
    cold that I have been obliged to lay in a second supply of wood. The
    only good day, and the only one I have been out, was that on which
    the king arrived. It fortunately was fine, and the sight was
    magnificent; quite worthy of so great an historical event. No
    carriages were allowed after the guns fired announcing that the king
    had left Leghorn; so we should have been ill off, had it not been
    for the kindness of our friend the Marchesa Lajatico, who invited us
    to her balcony, which is now very large, as they have built an
    addition to their house for the eldest son and his pretty wife. We
    were there some hours before the king arrived; but as all the
    Florentine society was there, and many of our friends from Turin and
    Genoa, we found it very agreeable. The house is in the Prato, very
    near the gate the king was to enter. On each side of it stages were
    raised like steps in an amphitheatre, which were densely crowded,
    every window decorated with gaily-coloured hangings and the Italian
    flag; the streets were lined with "guardie civiche," and bands of
    music played from time to time. The people shouted "Evviva!" every
    time a gun was fired. In the midst of this joy, there appeared what
    resembled a funeral procession--about a hundred emigrants following
    the Venetian, Roman, and Neapolitan colours, all hung with black
    crape; they were warmly applauded, and many people shed tears. They
    went to the railway station just without the gate to meet the King,
    and when they hailed him as "Rè d'Italia!" he was much affected.
    At last he appeared riding a fine English horse, Prince Carignan on
    one hand and Baron Ricasoli on his left, followed by a numerous
    "troupe dorée" of generals and of his suite in gay uniforms and
    well mounted. The King rides well; so the effect was extremely
    brilliant. Then followed several carriages; in the first were Count
    Cavour, Buoncompagni, and the Marchese Bartolommei. You cannot form
    the slightest idea of the excitement; it was a burst of enthusiasm,
    and the reception of Cavour was as warm. We threw a perfect shower
    of flowers over him, which the Marchesa had provided for the
    occasion; and her youngest son Cino, a nice lad, went himself to
    present his bouquet to the King, who seemed quite pleased with the
    boy. I felt so much for Madame de Lajatico herself.... I said to her
    how kind I thought it in her to open her house; she burst into
    tears, and said, though she was in deep affliction, she could not be
    so selfish as not offer her friends the best position in Florence
    for seeing what to many of them was the most important event in
    their lives, as it was to her even in her grief. The true Italian
    taste appeared to perfection in every street through which the
    procession passed to the Duomo, and thence to the Palazzo Pitti.
    Those who saw it declare nothing could surpass the splendour of the
    cathedral when illuminated; but that we could not see, nor did we
    see the procession again; it was impossible to penetrate the crowd.
    They say there are 40,000 strangers in Florence.... I was much too
    tired to go out again to see the illuminations and the fireworks on
    the Ponte Carraja; your sisters saw it all, so I leave them to tell
    you all about it. The King and Prince are terribly early; they and
    Ricasoli are on horseback by five in the morning; the King dines
    at twelve, and never touches food afterwards, though he has a dinner
    party of 60 or 80 every day at six.... Now, my dearest Woronzow, I
    must end, for I do not wish to miss another post. I am really
    wonderfully well for my age.

                                        Your devoted mother,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    FLORENCE, 19th June, 1861.

    ... Italy has been thrown into the deepest affliction by the death
    of Cavour. In my long life I never knew any event whatever which
    caused so universal and deep sorrow. There is not a village or town
    throughout the whole peninsula which has not had a funeral service,
    and the very poorest people, who had hardly clothes on their backs,
    had black crape tied round their arm or neck. It was a state of
    consternation, and no wonder! Every one felt that the greatest and
    best man of this century has been taken away before he had
    completely emancipated his country. All the progress is due to him,
    and to him alone; the revolution has called forth men of much
    talent, yet the whole are immeasurably his inferior in every
    respect--even your friend, Ricasoli, who is most able, and the best
    successor that can be found, is, compared with Cavour, as Tuscany to
    Europe. Happily the sad loss did not occur sooner. Now things are so
    far advanced that they cannot go back, and I trust that Ricasoli,
    who is not wanting in firmness and moral courage, will complete what
    has been so happily begun. I am sorry to say he is not in very good
    health, but I trust he will not fall into the hands of the physician
    who attended Cavour, and who mistook his disease, reduced him by
    loss of blood, and then finding out his real illness, tried to
    strengthen him when too late. There was a most excellent article in
    the "Times" on the two statesmen.

    [My mother's recollections continue thus:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

One night the moon shone so bright that we sent the carriage away, and walked home from a reception
at the Marchesa Ginori's. In crossing the Piazza San Marco, an acquaintance, who accompanied
us, took us to the Maglio, which is close by, to hear an echo. I like an echo; yet there is
something so unearthly in the aërial voice, that it never fails to raise a superstitious chill
in me, such as I have felt more than once as I read "Ossian" while travelling among our Highland
hills in my early youth. In one of the grand passes of the Oberland, when we were in Switzerland,
we were enveloped in a mist, through which peaks were dimly seen. We stopped to hear an echo;
the response came clear and distinct from a great distance, and I felt as if the Spirit of
the Mountain had spoken. The impression depends on accessory circumstances; for the roar of
a railway train passing over a viaduct has no such effect.

       *     *     *     *     *

I lost my husband in Florence on the 26th June, 1860.... From the preceding narrative may be
seen the sympathy, affection, and confidence, which always existed between us....

    [After what has already been said of the happiness my mother enjoyed
    during the long years of their married life, it may be imagined what
    grief was her's at my father's death after only three days' illness.
    My mother's dear friend and correspondent, Miss F.P. Cobbe, wrote to
    her as follows on this occasion:--]

    "I have just learned from a letter from Captain Fairfax to my
    brother the great affliction which has befallen you. I cannot
    express to you how it has grieved me to think that such a sorrow
    should have fallen on you, and that the dear, kind old man, whose
    welcome so often touched and gratified me, should have passed away
    so soon after I had seen you both, as I often thought, the most
    beautiful instance of united old age. His love and pride in you,
    breaking out as it did at every instant when you happened to be
    absent, gives me the measure of what his loss must be to your warm
    heart."

       *     *     *     *     *

    [The following letter from my mother, dated April, 1861, addressed to
    her sister-in-law, was written after reading my grandfather's "Life
    and Times," the publication of which my father did not live to see.]

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO MRS. ELLIOT, OF ROSEBANK, ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    FLORENCE, 28th April, 1861.

    MY DEAR JANET,--

    I received the precious volume[14] you have so kindly sent to me
    some days ago, but I have delayed thanking you for it till now
    because we all wished to read it first. We are highly pleased, and
    have been deeply interested in it. The whole tone of the book is
    characteristic of your dear father; the benevolence,
    warm-heartedness, and Christian charity which appeared in the whole
    course of his life and ministry. That which has struck us all most
    forcibly is the liberality of his sentiments, both religious and
    political, at a time when narrow views and bigotry made it even
    dangerous to avow them, and it required no small courage to do so.
    He was far in advance of the age in which he lived; his political
    opinions are those of the present day, his religious opinions still
    before it. There are many parts of the book which will please the
    general reader from the graphic description of the manners and
    customs of the time, as well as the narrative of his intercourse
    with many of the eminent men of his day. Your most dear father's
    affectionate remembrance of me touches me deeply. I have but one
    regret, dear Jenny, and that is that our dear William did not live
    to see the accomplishment of what was his dying wish; but God's will
    be done.... We are all much as usual: I am wonderfully well, and
    able to write, which I do for a time every day. I do not think I
    feel any difference in capacity, but I become soon tired, and then I
    read the newspapers, some amusing book, or work.... Everything is
    flourishing in Italy, and the people happy and contented, except
    those who were employed and dependent on the former sovereigns, but
    they are few in comparison; and now there is a fine army of 200,000
    men to defend the country, even if Austria should make an attack,
    but that is not likely at present. Rome is still the difficulty, but
    the Pope must and soon will lose his temporal power, for the people
    are determined it shall be so....

                           I am, dear sister,
                                Most affectionately yours,
                                            MARY SOMERVILLE.

    To MRS. ELLIOT, of Rosebank, Roxburghshire.

Soon after my dear husband's death, we went to Spezia, as my health required change, and for
some time we made it our headquarters, spending one winter at Florence, another at Genoa, where
my son and his wife came to meet us, and where I had very great delight in the beautiful singing
of our old friend Clara Novello, now Countess Gigliucci, who used to come to my house, and
sing Handel to me. It was a real pleasure, and her voice was as pure and silvery as when I
first heard her, years before. Another winter we spent at Turin. On returning to Spezia in
the summer of 1861, the beautiful comet visible that year appeared for the first time the very
evening we arrived. On the following, and during many evenings while it was visible, we used
to row in a small boat a little way from shore, in order to see it to greater advantage. Nothing
could be more poetical than the clear starlit heavens with this beautiful comet reflected,
nay, almost repeated, in the calm glassy water of the gulf. The perfect silence and stillness
of the scene was very impressive.

I was now unoccupied, and felt the necessity of having something to do, desultory reading being
insufficient to interest me; and as I had always considered the section on chemistry the weakest
part of the connection of the "Physical Sciences," I resolved to write it anew. My daughters
strongly opposed this, saying, "Why not write a new book?" They were right; it would have been
lost time: so I followed their advice, though it was a formidable undertaking at my age, considering
that the general character of science had greatly changed. By the improved state of the microscope,
an invisible creation in the air, the earth, and the water, had been brought within the limits
of human vision; the microscopic structure of plants and animals had been minutely studied,
and by synthesis many substances had been formed of the elementary atoms similar to those produced
by nature. Dr. Tyndall's experiments had proved the inconceivable minuteness of the atoms of
matter; Mr. Gassiot and Professor Plücher had published their experiments on the stratification
of the electric light; and that series of discoveries by scientific men abroad, but chiefly
by our own philosophers at home, which had been in progress for a course of years, prepared
the way for Bunsen and Kirchhof's marvellous consummation.

Such was the field opened to me; but instead of being discouraged by its magnitude, I seemed
to have resumed the perseverance and energy of my youth, and began to write with courage, though
I did not think I should live to finish even the sketch I had made, and which I intended to
publish under the name of "Molecular and Microscopic Science," and assumed as my motto, "Deus
magnus in magnis, maximus in minimis," from Saint Augustin.

My manuscript notes on Science were now of the greatest use; and we went for the winter to
Turin (1861-1862), where I could get books from the public libraries, and much information
on subjects of natural history from Professor De Filippi, who has recently died, much regretted,
while on a scientific mission to Japan and China, as well as from other sources. I subscribed
to various periodicals on chemical and other branches of science; the transactions of several
of our societies were sent to me, and I began to write. I was now an old woman, very deaf and
with shaking hands; but I could still see to thread the finest needle, and read the finest
print, but I got sooner tired when writing than I used to do. I wrote regularly every morning
from eight till twelve or one o'clock before rising. I was not alone, for I had a mountain
sparrow, a great pet, which sat, and indeed is sitting on my arm as I write these lines.

The Marchese Doria has a large property at Spezia, and my dear friend Teresa Doria generally
spent the evening with us, when she and I chatted and played Bézique together. Her sons also
came frequently, and some of the officers of the Italian navy. One who became our very good
friend is Captain William Acton, now Admiral, and for two years Minister of Marine; he is very
handsome, and, what is better, a most agreeable, accomplished gentleman, who has interested
himself in many branches of natural history, besides being a good linguist. In summer the British
squadron, commanded by Admiral Smart, came for five weeks to Spezia. My nephew, Henry Fairfax,
was commander on board the ironclad "Resistance." Notwithstanding my age, I was so curious
to see an ironclad that I went all over the "Resistance," even to the engine-room and screw-alley.
I also went to luncheon on board the flagship "Victoria," a three-decker, which put me in mind
of olden times.

    [The following extracts are from letters of my mother's, written in
    1863 and 1865:--]

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    SPEZIA, 12th May, 1863.

    How happy your last letter has made me, my dearest Woronzow, to hear
    that you are making real progress, and that you begin to feel better
    from the Bath waters.... Of your general health I had the very best
    account this morning from your friend Colonel Gordon. I was most
    agreeably surprised and gratified by a very kind and interesting
    letter from him, enclosing his photograph, and giving me an account
    of his great works at Portsmouth with reference to the defence by
    iron as well as stone....

    I wish I could show you the baskets full of flowers which Martha and
    Mary bring to me from the mountains. They are wonderfully beautiful;
    it is one of my greatest amusements putting them in water. I quite
    regret when they cannot go for them. The orchises and the gladioles
    are the chief flowers now, but such a variety and such colours! You
    see we have our quiet pleasures. I often think of more than "60
    years ago," when I used to scramble over the Bin at Burntisland
    after our tods-tails and leddies-fingers, but I fear there is hardly
    a wild spot existing now in the lowlands of Scotland....

                                    God bless you, my dearest Woronzow.

    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.

    SPEZIA, 27th Sept., 1865.

    MY DEAREST WORONZOW,

    I fear Agnes and you must have thought your old mother had gone mad
    when you read M.'s letter. In my sober senses, however, though
    sufficiently excited to give me strength for the time, I went over
    every part of the Resistance,[15] and examined everything in
    detail except the stokehole! I was not even hoisted on board, but
    mounted the companion-ladder bravely. It was a glorious sight, the
    perfection of structure in every part astonished me. A ship like
    that is the triumph of human talent and of British talent, for all
    confess our superiority in this respect to every other nation, and I
    am happy to see that no jealousy has arisen from the meeting of the
    French and English fleets. I was proud that our "young admiral"[16]
    had the command of so fine a vessel.... I also spent a most
    agreeable day on board the Victoria, three-decker, and saw every
    part of the three decks, which are very different from what they
    were in my father's time; everything on a much larger scale, more
    elegant and convenient. But the greatest change is in the men; I
    never saw a finer set, so gentlemanly-looking and well-behaved;
    almost all can read and write, and they have an excellent library
    and reading-room in all the ships. No sooner was the fleet gone than
    the Italian Society of Natural History held their annual meeting
    here, Capellini[17] being president in the absence (in Borneo) of
    Giacomo Doria. There were altogether seventy members, Italian,
    French, and German. I was chosen an Associate by acclamation, and
    had to write a few lines of thanks. The weather was beautiful and
    the whole party dined every day on the terrace below our windows,
    which was very amusing to Miss Campbell and your sisters, who
    distinctly heard the speeches. I was invited to dinner and the wife
    of the celebrated Professor Vogt was asked to meet me; I declined
    dining, as it lasted so long that I should have been too tired, but
    I went down to the dessert. Capellini came for me, and all rose as I
    came in, and every attention was shown me, my health was drank, &c.
    &c. It lasted four days, and we had many evening visits, and I
    received a quantity of papers on all subjects. I am working very
    hard (for me at least), but I cannot hurry, nor do I see the need
    for it. I write so slowly on account of the shaking of my hand that
    although my head is clear I make little but steady progress....

                                        Your affectionate mother,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

After the battle of Aspromonte, Garibaldi arrived a prisoner on board a man-of-war, and was
placed at Varignano under surveillance. His wound had not been properly dressed, and he was
in a state of great suffering. Many surgeons came from all parts of Italy, and one even from
England, to attend him, but the eminent Professor Nélaton saved him from amputation, with which
he was threatened, by extracting the bullet from his ankle. I never saw Garibaldi during his
three months' residence at Varignano and Spezia; I had no previous acquaintance with him; consequently,
as I could be of no use to him, I did not consider myself entitled to intrude upon him merely
to gratify my own curiosity, although no one admired his noble and disinterested character
more than I did. Not so, many of my countrymen, and countrywomen too, as well as ladies of
other nations, who worried the poor man out of his life, and made themselves eminently ridiculous.
One lady went so far as to collect the hairs from his comb,--others showered tracts upon him.

I had hitherto been very healthy; but in the beginning of winter I was seized with a severe
illness which, though not immediately dangerous, lasted so long, that it was doubtful whether
I should have stamina to recover. It was a painful and fatiguing time to my daughters. They
were quite worn out with nursing me; our maid was ill, and our man-servant, Luigi Lucchesi,
watched me with such devotion that he sat up twenty-four nights with me. He has been with us
eighteen years, and now that I am old and feeble, he attends me with unceasing kindness. It
is but justice to say that we never were so faithfully or well served as by Italians; and none
are more ingenious in turning their hands to anything, and in never objecting to do this or
that, as not what they were hired for,--a great quality for people who, like ourselves, keep
few servants. After a time they identify themselves with the family they serve, as my faithful
Luigi has done with all his heart. I am sincerely attached to him.

       *     *     *     *     *

In the spring, when I had recovered, my son and his wife came to Spezia, and we all went to
Florence, where we had the pleasure of seeing many old friends. We returned to Spezia, and
my son and his wife left us to go back to England, intending to meet us again somewhere the
following spring. I little thought we never should meet again.... My son sent his sisters a
beautiful little cutter, built by Mr. Forrest in London, which has been a great resource to
them. I always insist on their taking a good sailor with them, although I am not in the least
nervous for their safety. Indeed, small as the "Frolic" is--and she is only about twenty-eight
feet from stem to stern--she has weathered some stiff gales gallantly, as, for instance, when
our friend, Mr. Montague Brown, British consul at Genoa, sailed her from Genoa to Spezia in
very bad weather; and in a very dangerous squall my daughters were caught in, coming from Amalfi
to Sorrento. The "Frolic" had only just arrived at Spezia, when we heard of the sudden death
of my dear son, Oct., 1865.

    [This event, which took from my mother's last years one of her chief
    delights, she bore with her usual calm courage, looking forward
    confidently to a reunion at no distant date with one who had been
    the most dutiful of sons and beloved of friends. She never permitted
    herself, in writing her Recollections, to refer to her feelings
    under these great sorrows.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Some time after this, my widowed daughter-in-law spent a few months with us. On her return
to London, I sent the manuscript of the "Molecular and Microscopic Science" with her for publication.
In writing this book I made a great mistake, and repent it. Mathematics are the natural bent
of my mind. If I had devoted myself exclusively to that study, I might probably have written
something useful, as a new era had begun in that science. Although I got "Chasles on the Higher
Geometry," it could be but a secondary object while I was engaged in writing a popular book.
Subsequently, it became a source of deep interest and occupation to me.

Spezia is very much spoilt by the works in progress for the arsenal, though nothing can change
the beauty of the gulf as seen from our windows, especially the group of the Carrara mountains,
with fine peaks and ranges of hills, becoming more and more verdant down to the water's edge.
The effect of the setting-sun on this group is varied and brilliant beyond belief. Even I,
in spite of my shaking hand, resumed the brush, and painted a view of the ruined Castle of
Ostia, at the mouth of the Tiber, from a sketch of my own, for my dear friend Teresa Doria.

We now came to live at Naples; and on leaving Spezia, I spent a fortnight with Count and Countess
Usedom at the Villa Capponi, near Florence, where, though unable to visit, I had the pleasure
of seeing my Florentine friends again.

We spent two days in Rome, and dined with our friends the Duca and Duchesa di Sermoneta. We
were grieved at his blindness, but found him as agreeable as ever.

Through our friend, Admiral Acton, I became acquainted with Professor Panceri, Professor of
Comparative Anatomy; Signore de Gasparis, who has discovered nine of the minor planets, and
is an excellent mathematician, and some others. To these gentlemen I am indebted for being
elected an honorary member of the Accademia Pontoniana.

We were much interested in Vesuvius, which, for several months, was in a state of great activity.
At first, there were only volumes of smoke and some small streams of lava, but these were followed
by the most magnificent projections of red hot stones and rocks rising 2,000 feet above the
top of the mountain. Many fell back again into the crater, but a large portion were thrown
in fiery showers down the sides of the cone. At length, these beautiful eruptions of lapilli
ceased, and the lava flowed more abundantly, though, being intermittent and always issuing
from the summit, it was quite harmless; volumes of smoke and vapour rose from the crater, and
were carried by the wind to a great distance. In sunshine the contrast was beautiful, between
the jet-black smoke and the silvery-white clouds of vapour. At length, the mountain returned
to apparent tranquillity, though the violent detonations occasionally heard gave warning that
the calm might not last long. At last, one evening, in November, 1868, when one of my daughters
and I were observing the mountain through a very good telescope, lent us by a friend, we distinctly
saw a new crater burst out at the foot of the cone in the Atrio del Cavallo, and bursts of
red-hot lapilli and red smoke pouring forth in volumes. Early next morning we saw a great stream
of lava pouring down to the north of the Observatory, and a column of black smoke issuing from
the new craters, because there were two, and assuming the well-known appearance of a pine-tree.
The trees on the northern edge of the lava were already on fire. The stream of lava very soon
reached the plain, where it overwhelmed fields, vineyards, and houses. It was more than a mile
in width and thirty feet deep. My daughters went up the mountain the evening after the new
craters were formed; as for me, I could not risk the fatigue of such an excursion, but I saw
it admirably from our own windows. During this year the volcanic forces in the interior of
the earth were in unusual activity, for a series of earthquakes shook the west coast of South
America for more than 2,500 miles, by which many thousands of the inhabitants perished, and
many more were rendered homeless. Slight shocks were felt in many parts of Europe, and even
in England. Vesuvius was our safety-valve. The pressure must have been very great which opened
two new craters in the Atrio del Cavallo and forced out such a mass of matter. There is no
evidence that water had been concerned in the late eruption of Vesuvius; but during the whole
of the preceding autumn, the fall of rain had been unusually great and continuous. There were
frequent thunderstorms; and, on one occasion, the quantity of rain that fell was so great,
as to cause a land-slip in Pizzifalcone, by which several houses were overwhelmed; and, on
another occasion, the torrent of rain was so violent, that the Riviera di Chiaja was covered,
to the depth of half a metre, with mud, and stones brought down by the water from the heights
above. This enormous quantity of water pouring on the slopes of Vesuvius, and percolating through
the crust of the earth into the fiery caverns, where volcanic forces are generated, being resolved
into steam, and possibly aided by the expansion of volcanic gases, may have been a partial
agent in propelling the formidable stream of lava which has caused such destruction. We observed,
that when lava abounded, the projection of rocks and lapilli either ceased altogether, or became
of small amount. The whole eruption ended in a shower of impalpable ashes, which hid the mountain
for many days, and which were carried to a great distance by the wind. Sometimes the ashes
were pure white, giving the mountain the appearance of being covered with snow. Vapour continued
to rise from Vesuvius in beautiful silvery clouds, which ceased and left the edge of the crater
white with sublimations. I owe to Vesuvius the great pleasure of making the acquaintance of
Mr. Phillips, Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford; and, afterwards, that of Sir
John Lubbock, and Professor Tyndall, who had come to Naples on purpose to see the eruption.
Unfortunately, Sir John Lubbock and Professor Tyndall were so limited for time, that they could
only spend one evening with us; but I enjoyed a delightful evening, and had much scientific
conversation.

Notwithstanding the progress meteorology has made since it became a subject of exact observation,
yet no explanation has been given of the almost unprecedented high summer temperature of 1868
in Great Britain, and even in the Arctic regions. In England, the grass and heather were dried
up, and extensive areas were set on fire by sparks from railway locomotives, the conflagrations
spreading so rapidly, that they could only be arrested by cutting trenches to intercept their
course. The whalers found open water to a higher latitude than usual; but, although the British
Government did not avail themselves of this opportunity for further Arctic discovery, Sweden,
Germany, France, and especially the United States, have taken up the subject with great energy.
Eight expeditions sailed for the North Polar region between the years 1868 and 1870; several
for the express purpose of reaching the Polar Sea, which, I have no doubt, will be attained,
now that steam has given such power to penetrate the fields of floating ice. It would be more
than a dashing exploit to make a cruise on that unknown sea; it would be a discovery of vast
scientific importance with regard to geography, magnetism, temperature, the general circulation
of the atmosphere and oceans, as well as to natural history. I cannot but regret that I shall
not live to hear the result of these voyages.

       *     *     *     *     *

The British laws are adverse to women; and we are deeply indebted to Mr. Stuart Mill for daring
to show their iniquity and injustice. The law in the United States is in some respects even
worse, insulting the sex, by granting suffrage to the newly-emancipated slaves, and refusing
it to the most highly-educated women of the Republic.

    [For the noble character and transcendent intellect of Mr. J.S. Mill
    my mother had the greatest admiration. She had some correspondence
    with him on the subject of the petition to Parliament for the
    extension of the suffrage to women, which she signed; and she also
    wrote to thank him warmly for his book on the "Subjection of Women."
    In Mr. Mill's reply to the latter he says:--]

    FROM JOHN STUART MILL, ESQ., TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    BLACKHEATH PARK, July 12th, 1869.

    DEAR MADAM,

    Such a letter as yours is a sufficient reward for the trouble of
    writing the little book. I could have desired no better proof that
    it was adapted to its purpose than such an encouraging opinion from
    you. I thank you heartily for taking the trouble to express, in such
    kind terms, your approbation of the book,--the approbation of one
    who has rendered such inestimable service to the cause of women by
    affording in her own person so high an example of their intellectual
    capabilities, and, finally, by giving to the protest in the great
    Petition of last year the weight and importance derived from the
    signature which headed it.

                          I am,
                            Dear Madam,
                               Most sincerely and respectfully yours,
                                                             J.S. MILL.

       *     *     *     *     *

Age has not abated my zeal for the emancipation of my sex from the unreasonable prejudice too
prevalent in Great Britain against a literary and scientific education for women. The French
are more civilized in this respect, for they have taken the lead, and have given the first
example in modern times of encouragement to the high intellectual culture of the sex. Madame
Emma Chenu, who had received the degree of Master of Arts from the Faculty of Sciences of the
University in Paris, has more recently received the diploma of Licentiate in Mathematical Sciences
from the same illustrious Society, after a successful examination in algebra, trigonometry,
analytical geometry, the differential and integral calculus, and astronomy. A Russian lady
has also taken a degree; and a lady of my acquaintance has received a gold medal from the same
Institution.

I joined in a petition to the Senate of London University, praying that degrees might be granted
to women; but it was rejected. I have also frequently signed petitions to Parliament for the
Female Suffrage, and have the honour now to be a member of the General Committee for Woman
Suffrage in London.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [My mother, in alluding to the great changes in public opinion which
    she had lived to see, used to remark that a commonly well-informed
    woman of the present day would have been looked upon as a prodigy of
    learning in her youth, and that even till quite lately many
    considered that if women were to receive the solid education men
    enjoy, they would forfeit much of their feminine grace and become
    unfit to perform their domestic duties. My mother herself was one of
    the brightest examples of the fallacy of this old-world theory, for
    no one was more thoroughly and gracefully feminine than she was,
    both in manner and appearance; and, as I have already mentioned, no
    amount of scientific labour ever induced her to neglect her home
    duties. She took the liveliest interest in all that has been done of
    late years to extend high class education to women, both classical
    and scientific, and hailed the establishment of the Ladies' College
    at Girton as a great step in the true direction, and one which could
    not fail to obtain most important results. Her scientific library,
    as already stated, has been presented to this College as the best
    fulfilment of her wishes.]

       *     *     *     *     *

I have lately entered my 89th year, grateful to God for the innumerable blessings He has bestowed
on me and my children; at peace with all on earth, and I trust that I may be at peace with
my Maker when my last hour comes, which cannot now be far distant.

Although I have been tried by many severe afflictions, my life upon the whole has been happy.
In my youth I had to contend with prejudice and illiberality; yet I was of a quiet temper,
and easy to live with, and I never interfered with or pryed into other people's affairs. However,
if irritated by what I considered unjust criticism or interference with myself, or any one
I loved, I could resent it fiercely. I was not good at argument; I was apt to lose my temper;
but I never bore ill will to any one, or forgot the manners of a gentlewoman, however angry
I may have been at the time. But I must say that no one ever met with such kindness as I have
done. I never had an enemy. I have never been of a melancholy disposition; though depressed
sometimes by circumstances, I always rallied again; and although I seldom laugh, I can laugh
heartily at wit or on fit occasion. The short time I have to live naturally occupies my thoughts.
In the blessed hope of meeting again with my beloved children, and those who were and are dear
to me on earth, I think of death with composure and perfect confidence in the mercy of God.
Yet to me, who am afraid to sleep alone on a stormy night, or even to sleep comfortably any
night unless some one is near, it is a fearful thought, that my spirit must enter that new
state of existence quite alone. We are told of the infinite glories of that state, and I believe
in them, though it is incomprehensible to us; but as I do comprehend, in some degree at least,
the exquisite loveliness of the visible world, I confess I shall be sorry to leave it. I shall
regret the sky, the sea, with all the changes of their beautiful colouring; the earth, with
its verdure and flowers: but far more shall I grieve to leave animals who have followed our
steps affectionately for years, without knowing for certainty their ultimate fate, though I
firmly believe that the living principle is never extinguished. Since the atoms of matter are
indestructible, as far as we know, it is difficult to believe that the spark which gives to
their union life, memory, affection, intelligence, and fidelity, is evanescent. Every atom
in the human frame, as well as in that of animals, undergoes a periodical change by continual
waste and renovation; the abode is changed, not its inhabitant. If animals have no future,
the existence of many is most wretched; multitudes are starved, cruelly beaten, and loaded
during life; many die under a barbarous vivisection. I cannot believe that any creature was
created for uncompensated misery; it would be contrary to the attributes of God's mercy and
justice. I am sincerely happy to find that I am not the only believer in the immortality of
the lower animals.

       *     *     *     *     *

When I was taught geography by the village schoolmaster at Burntisland, it seemed to me that
half the world was terra incognita, and now that a new edition of my "Physical Geography" is
required, it will be a work of great labour to bring it up to the present time. The discoveries
in South Africa alone would fill a volume. Japan and China have been opened to Europeans since
my last edition. The great continent of Australia was an entirely unknown country, except part
of the coast. Now telegrams have been sent and answers received in the course of a few hours,
from our countrymen throughout that mighty empire, and even from New Zealand, round half the
globe. The inhabitants of the United States are our offspring; so whatever may happen to Great
Britain in the course of events, it still will have the honour of colonizing, and consequently
civilizing, half the world.

In all recent geographical discoveries, our Royal Geographical Society has borne the most important
part, and none of its members have done more than my highly-gifted friend the President, Sir
Roderick Murchison, geologist of Russia, and founder and author of the colossal "Silurian System."
To the affection of this friend, sanctioned by the unanimous approval of the council of that
illustrious Society, I owe the honour of being awarded the Victoria Medal for my "Physical
Geography." An honour so unexpected, and so far beyond my merit, surprised and affected me
more deeply than I can find words to express.

In the events of my life it may be seen how much I have been honoured by the scientific societies
and universities of Italy, many of whom have elected me an honorary member or associate; but
the greatest honour I have received in Italy has been the gift of the first gold medal hitherto
awarded by the Geographical Society at Florence, and which was coined on purpose, with my name
on the reverse. I received it the other day, accompanied by the following letter from General
Menabrea, President of the Council, himself a distinguished mathematician and philosopher:--

    FROM GENERAL MENABREA TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    FLORENCE, 30 Juin, 1869.

    MADAME,

    J'ai pris connaissance avec le plus grand intérêt de la belle
    édition de votre dernier ouvrage sur la Géographie Physique, et je
    désire vous donner un témoignage d'haute estime pour vos travaux. Je
    vous prie donc, Madame, d'accepter une médaille d'or à l'effigie du
    Roi Victor Emmanuel, mon auguste souverain. C'est un souvenir de mon
    pays dans lequel vous comptez, comme chez toutes les nations où la
    science est honoré, de nombreux amis et admirateurs. Veuillez
    croire, Madame, que je ne cesserai d'être l'un et l'autre en même
    temps que je suis,

                             Votre très dévoué Serviteur,
                                                       MENABREA.

       *     *     *     *     *

At a general assembly of the Italian Geographical Society, at Florence, on the 14th March,
1870, I was elected by acclamation an Honorary Associate of that distinguished society. I am
indebted to the President, the Commendatore Negri, for having proposed my name, and for a very
kind letter, informing me of the honour conferred upon me.

       *     *     *     *     *

I have still (in 1869) the habit of studying in bed from eight in the morning till twelve or
one o'clock; but, I am left solitary; for I have lost my little bird who was my constant companion
for eight years. It had both memory and intelligence, and such confidence in me as to sleep
upon my arm while I was writing. My daughter, to whom it was much attached, coming into my
room early, was alarmed at its not flying to meet her, as it generally did, and at last, after
a long search, the poor little creature was found drowned in the jug.

On the 4th October, while at dinner, we had a shock of earthquake. The vibrations were nearly
north and south; it lasted but a few seconds, and was very slight; but in Calabria, &c., many
villages and towns were overthrown, and very many people perished. The shocks were repeated
again and again; only one was felt at Naples; but as it occurred in the night, we were unconscious
of it. At Naples, it was believed there would be an eruption of Vesuvius; for the smoke was
particularly dense and black, and some of the wells were dried up.

       *     *     *     *     *

I can scarcely believe that Rome, where I have spent so many happy years, is now the capital
of united Italy. I heartily rejoice in that glorious termination to the vicissitudes the country
has undergone, and only regret that age and infirmity prevent me from going to see Victor Emmanuel
triumphantly enter the capital of his kingdom. The Pope's reliance on foreign troops for his
safety was an unpardonable insult to his countrymen.

       *     *     *     *     *

The month of October this year (1870), seems to have been remarkable for displays of the Aurora
Borealis. It seriously interfered with the working of the telegraphs, particularly in the north
of England and Ireland. On the night of the 24th October, it was seen over the greater part
of Europe. At Florence, the common people were greatly alarmed, and at Naples, the peasantry
were on their knees to the Madonna to avert the evil. Unfortunately, neither I nor any of my
family saw the Aurora; for most of our windows have a southern aspect. The frequent occurrence
of the Aurora in 1870 confirms the already known period of maximum intensity and frequency,
every ten or twelve years, since the last maximum occurred in 1859.

The summer of 1870 was unusually cool; but the winter has been extremely gloomy, with torrents
of rain, and occasionally such thick fogs, that I could see neither to read nor to write. We
had no storms during the hot weather; but on the afternoon of the 21st December, there was
one of the finest thunderstorms I ever saw; the lightning was intensely vivid, and took the
strangest forms, darting in all directions through the air before it struck, and sometimes
darting from the ground or the sea to the clouds. It ended in a deluge of rain, which lasted
all night, and made us augur ill for the solar eclipse next day; and, sure enough, when I awoke
next morning, the sky was darkened by clouds and rain. Fortunately, it cleared up just as the
eclipse began; we were all prepared for observing it, and we followed its progress through
the opening in the clouds till at last there was only a very slender crescent of the sun's
disc left; its convexity was turned upwards, and its horns were nearly horizontal. It was then
hidden by a dense mass of clouds; but after a time they opened, and I saw the edge of the moon
leave the limb of the sun. The appearance of the landscape was very lurid, but by no means
very dark. The common people and children had a very good view of the eclipse, reflected by
the pools of water in the streets.

Many of the astronomers who had been in Sicily observing the eclipse came to see me as they
passed through Naples. One of their principal objects was to ascertain the nature of the corona,
or bright white rays which surround the dark lunar disc at the time of the greatest obscurity.
The spectroscope showed that it was decidedly auroral, but as the aurora was seen on the dark
disc of the moon it must have been due to the earth's atmosphere. Part of the corona was polarized,
and consequently must have been material; the question is, Can it be the ethereal medium? A
question of immense importance, since the whole theory of light and colours and the resistance
of Encke's comet depends upon that hypothesis. The question is still in abeyance, but I have
no doubt that it will be decided in the affirmative, and that even the cause of gravitation
will be known eventually.

At this time I had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Peirce, Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy,
in the Harvard University, U.S., and Superintendent of the U.S. Coast Survey, who had come
to Europe to observe the eclipse. On returning to America he kindly sent me a beautiful lithographed
copy of a very profound memoir on linear and associative algebra. Although in writing my popular
books I had somewhat neglected the higher algebra, I have read a great part of the work; but
as I met with some difficulties I wrote to Mr. Spottiswoode, asking his advice as to the books
that would be of use, and he sent me Serret's "Cours d'Algèbre Supérieure," Salmon's "Higher
Algebra," and Tait on "Quaternions;" so now I got exactly what I wanted, and I am very busy
for a few hours every morning; delighted to have an occupation so entirely to my mind. I thank
God that my intellect is still unimpaired. I am grateful to Professor Peirce for giving me
an opportunity of exercising it so agreeably. During the rest of the day I have recourse to
Shakespeare, Dante, and more modern light reading, besides the newspapers, which always interested
me much. I have resumed my habit of working, and can count the threads of a fine canvas without
spectacles. I receive every one who comes to see me, and often have the pleasure of a visit
from old friends very unexpectedly. In the evening I read a novel, but my tragic days are over;
I prefer a cheerful conversational novel to the sentimental ones. I have recently been reading
Walter Scott's novels again, and enjoyed the broad Scotch in them. I play a few games at Bézique
with one of my daughters, for honour and glory, and so our evenings pass pleasantly enough.

It is our habit to be separately occupied during the morning, and spend the rest of the day
together. We are fond of birds and have several, all very tame. Our tame nightingales sing
very beautifully, but, strange to say, not at night. We have also some solitary sparrows, which
are, in fact, a variety of the thrush (Turdus cyaneus), and some birds which we rescued from
destruction in spring, when caught and ill-used by the boys in the streets; besides, we have
our dogs; all of which afford me amusement and interest.

       *     *     *     *     *

Mr. Murray has kindly sent me a copy of Darwin's recent work on the "Descent of Man." Mr. Darwin
maintains his theory with great talent and with profound research. His knowledge of the characters
and habits of animals of all kinds is very great, and his kindly feelings charming. It is chiefly
by the feathered race that he has established his law of selection relative to sex. The males
of many birds are among the most beautiful objects in nature; but that the beauty of nature
is altogether irrelative to man's admiration or appreciation, is strikingly proved by the admirable
sculpture on Diatoms and Foraminifera; beings whose very existence was unknown prior to the
invention of the microscope. The Duke of Argyll has illustrated this in the "Reign of Law,"
by the variety, graceful forms and beautiful colouring of the humming birds in forests which
man has never entered.

In Mr. Darwin's book it is amusing to see how conscious the male birds are of their beauty;
they have reason to be so, but we scorn the vanity of the savage who decks himself in their
spoils. Many women without remorse allow the life of a pretty bird to be extinguished in order
that they may deck themselves with its corpse. In fact, humming birds and other foreign birds
have become an article of commerce. Our kingfishers and many of our other birds are on the
eve of extinction on account of a cruel fashion.

I have just received from Frances Power Cobbe an essay, in which she controverts Darwin's theory,[18]
so far as the origin of the moral sense is concerned. It is written with all the energy of
her vigorous intellect as a moral philosopher, yet with a kindly tribute to Mr. Darwin's genius.
I repeat no one admires Frances Cobbe more than I do. I have ever found her a brilliant, charming
companion, and a warm, affectionate friend. She is one of the few with whom I keep up a correspondence.

To Mr. Murray I am indebted for a copy of Tylor's "Researches on the Early History of Mankind,
and the Development of Civilization"--a very remarkable work for extent of research, original
views, and happy illustrations. The gradual progress of the prehistoric races of mankind has
laid a foundation from which Mr. Tylor proves that after the lapse of ages the barbarous races
now existing are decidedly in a state of progress towards civilization. Yet one cannot conceive
human beings in a more degraded state than some of them are still; their women are treated
worse than their dogs. Sad to say, no savages are more gross than the lowest ranks in England,
or treat their wives with more cruelty.

       *     *     *     *     *

In the course of my life Paris has been twice occupied by foreign troops, and still oftener
has it been in a state of anarchy. I regret to see that La Place's house at Arcueil has been
broken into, and his manuscripts thrown into the river, from which some one has fortunately
rescued that of the "Mécanique Céleste," which is in his own handwriting. It is greatly to
the honour of French men of science that during the siege they met as usual in the hall of
the Institute, and read their papers as in the time of peace. The celebrated astronomer Janssen
even escaped in a balloon, that he might arrive in time to observe the eclipse of the 22nd
November, 1870.

       *     *     *     *     *

We had a most brilliant display of the Aurora on the evening of Sunday, the 4th February, 1871,
which lasted several hours. The whole sky from east to west was of the most brilliant flickering
white light, from which streamers of red darted up to the zenith. There was also a lunar rainbow.
The common people were greatly alarmed, for there had been a prediction that the world was
coming to an end, and they thought the bright part of the Aurora was a piece of the moon that
had already tumbled down! This Aurora was seen in Turkey and in Egypt.

       *     *     *     *     *

I am deeply grieved and shaken by the death of Sir John Herschel, who, though ten years younger
than I am, has gone before me. In him I have lost a dear and affectionate friend, whose advice
was invaluable, and his society a charm. None but those who have lived in his home can imagine
the brightness and happiness of his domestic life. He never presumed upon that superiority
of intellect or the great discoveries which made him one of the most illustrious men of the
age; but conversed cheerfully and even playfully on any subject, though ever ready to give
information on any of the various branches of science to which he so largely contributed, and
which to him were a source of constant happiness. Few of my early friends now remain--I am
nearly left alone.

       *     *     *     *     *

We went to pass the summer and autumn at Sorrento, where we led a very quiet but happy life.
The villa we lived in was at a short distance from and above the town, quite buried in groves
of oranges and lemons, beyond which lay the sea, generally calm and blue, sometimes stormy;
to our left the islands of Ischia and Procida, the Capo Miseno, with Baia, Pozzuoli, and Posilipo;
exactly opposite to us, Naples, then Vesuvius, and all the little towns on that coast, and
lastly, to our right, this wonderful panorama was bounded by the fine cliffs of the Monte Santangelo.
It was beautiful always, but most beautiful when the sun, setting behind Ischia, sent a perfect
glory over the rippling sea, and tinged the Monte Santangelo and the cliffs which bound the
Piano di Sorrento literally with purple and gold. I spent the whole day on a charming terrace
sheltered from the sun, and there we dined and passed the evening watching the lights of Naples
reflected in the water and the revolving lights of the different lighthouses. I often drove
to Massa till after sunset, for from that road I could see the island of Capri, and I scarcely
know a more lovely drive. Besides the books we took with us we had newspapers, reviews, and
other periodicals, so that we were never dull. On one occasion my daughters and I made an expedition
up the hills to the Deserto, from whence one can see the Gulf of Salerno and the fine mountains
of Calabria. My daughters rode and I was carried in a portantina. It was fine, clear, autumnal
weather, and I enjoyed my expedition immensely, nor was I fatigued.

       *     *     *     *     *

In November we returned to Naples, where I resumed my usual life. I had received a copy of
Hamilton's Lectures on Quaternions from the Rev. Whitewell Elwin. I am not acquainted with
that gentleman, and am the more grateful to him. I have now a valuable library of scientific
books and transactions of scientific societies, the greater part gifts from the authors.

Foreigners were so much shocked at the atrocious cruelty to animals in Italy, that an attempt
was made about eight years ago to induce the Italian Parliament to pass a law for their protection,
but it failed. As Italy is the only civilized country in Europe in which animals are not protected
by law, another attempt is now being made; I have willingly given my name, and I received a
kind letter from the Marchioness of Ely, from Rome, to whom I had spoken upon the subject at
Naples, telling me that the Princess Margaret, Crown Princess of Italy, had been induced to
head the petition. Unless the educated classes take up the cause one cannot hope for much change
for a long time. Our friend, Mr. Robert Hay, who resided at Rome for many years, had an old
horse of which he was very fond, and on leaving Rome asked a Roman prince, who had very large
possessions in the Campagna, if he would allow his old horse to end his days on his grassy
meadows. "Certainly," replied the prince, "but how can you care what becomes of an animal when
he is no longer of use?"

       *     *     *     *     *

I am now in my 92nd year (1872), still able to drive out for several hours; I am extremely
deaf, and my memory of ordinary events, and especially of the names of people, is failing,
but not for mathematical and scientific subjects. I am still able to read books on the higher
algebra for four or five hours in the morning, and even to solve the problems. Sometimes I
find them difficult, but my old obstinacy remains, for if I do not succeed to-day, I attack
them again on the morrow. I also enjoy reading about all the new discoveries and theories in
the scientific world, and on all branches of science.

Sir Roderick Murchison has passed away, honoured by all, and of undying fame; and my amiable
friend, almost my contemporary, Professor Sedgwick, has been obliged to resign his chair of
geology at Cambridge, from age, which he had filled with honour during a long life.

    [The following letter from her valued friend Professor Sedgwick, in
    1869, is the last my mother received from him:--]

    FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    CAMBRIDGE, April 21st, 1869.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I heard, when I was in London, that you were still in good bodily
    health, and in full fruition of your great intellectual strength,
    while breathing the sweet air of Naples. I had been a close prisoner
    to my college rooms through the past winter and spring; but I broke
    from my prison-house at the beginning of this month, that I might
    consult my oculist, and meet my niece on her way to Italy.... My
    niece has for many years (ever since 1840) been my loving companion
    during my annual turn of residence as canon of Norwich; and she is,
    and from her childhood has, been to me as a dear daughter. I know
    you will forgive me for my anxiety to hear from a living witness
    that you are well and happy in the closing days of your honoured
    life; and for my longing desire that my beloved daughter (for such I
    ever regard her) should speak to you face to face, and see (for
    however short an interview) the Mrs. Somerville, of whom I have so
    often talked with her in terms of honest admiration and deep regard.
    The time for the Italian tour is, alas! far too short. But it will
    be a great gain to each of the party to be allowed, even for a short
    time, to gaze upon the earthly paradise that is round about you, and
    to cast one look over its natural wonders and historic monuments....
    Since you were here, my dear and honoured guest, Cambridge is
    greatly changed. I am left here like a vessel on its beam ends, to
    mark the distance to which the current has been drifting during a
    good many bygone years. I have outlived nearly all my early
    friends. Whewell, Master of Trinity, was the last of the old stock
    who was living here. Herschel has not been here for several years.
    Babbage was here for a day or two during the year before last. The
    Astronomer-Royal belongs to a more recent generation. For many years
    long attacks of suppressed gout have made my life very unproductive.
    I yesterday dined in Hall. It was the first time I was able to meet
    my brother Fellows since last Christmas day. A long attack of
    bronchitis, followed by a distressing inflammation of my eyes, had
    made me a close prisoner for nearly four months. But, thank God, I
    am again beginning to be cheery, and with many infirmities (the
    inevitable results of old age, for I have entered on my 85th year) I
    am still strong in general health, and capable of enjoying, I think
    as much as ever, the society of those whom I love, be they young or
    old. May God preserve and bless you; and whensoever it may be His
    will to call you away to Himself, may your mind be without a cloud
    and your heart full of joyful Christian hope!

                               I remain,
                                  My dear Friend,
                                     Faithfully and gratefully yours,
                                                        ADAM SEDGWICK.

       *     *     *     *     *

After all the violence and bloodshed of the preceding year, the Thanksgiving of Queen Victoria
and the British nation for the recovery of the Prince of Wales will form a striking event in
European history. For it was not the congregation in St. Paul's alone, it was the spontaneous
gratitude of all ranks and all faiths throughout the three kingdoms that were offered up to
God that morning; the people sympathized with their Queen, and no sovereign more deserves sympathy.

       *     *     *     *     *

Vesuvius has exhibited a considerable activity during the winter and early spring, and frequent
streams of lava flowed from the crater, and especially from the small cone to the north, a
little way below the principal crater. But these streams were small and intermittent, and no
great outbreak was expected. On the 24th April a stream of lava induced us to drive in the
evening to Santa Lucia. The next night, Thursday, 25th April, my daughter Martha, who had been
to the theatre, wakened me that I might see Vesuvius in splendid eruption. This was at about
1 o'clock on Friday morning. Early in the morning I was disturbed by what I thought loud thunder,
and when my maid came at 7 a.m. I remarked that there was a thunder storm, but she said, "No,
no; it is the mountain roaring." It must have been very loud for me to hear, considering my
deafness, and the distance Vesuvius is from Naples, yet it was nothing compared to the noise
later in the day, and for many days after. My daughter, who had gone to Santa Lucia to see
the eruption better, soon came to fetch me with our friend Mr. James Swinton, and we passed
the whole day at windows in an hotel at Santa Lucia, immediately opposite the mountain. Vesuvius
was now in the fiercest eruption, such as has not occurred in the memory of this generation,
lava overflowing the principal crater and running in all directions. The fiery glow of lava
is not very visible by daylight; smoke and steam is sent off which rises white as snow, or
rather as frosted silver, and the mouth of the great crater was white with the lava pouring
over it. New craters had burst out the preceding night, at the very time I was admiring the
beauty of the eruption, little dreaming that, of many people who had gone up that night to
the Atrio del Cavallo to see the lava (as my daughters had done repeatedly and especially during
the great eruption of 1868), some forty or fifty had been on the very spot where the new crater
burst out, and perished, scorched to death by the fiery vapours which eddied from the fearful
chasm. Some were rescued who had been less near to the chasm, but of these none eventually
recovered.

Behind the cone rose an immense column of dense black smoke to more than four times the height
of the mountain, and spread out at the summit horizontally, like a pine tree, above the silvery
stream which poured forth in volumes. There were constant bursts of fiery projectiles, shooting
to an immense height into the black column of smoke, and tinging it with a lurid red colour.
The fearful roaring and thundering never ceased for one moment, and the house shook with the
concussion of the air. One stream of lava flowed towards Torre del Greco, but luckily stopped
before it reached the cultivated fields; others, and the most dangerous ones, since some of
them came from the new craters, poured down the Atrio del Cavallo, and dividing before reaching
the Observatory flowed to the right and to the left--the stream which flowed to the north very
soon reached the plain, and before night came on had partially destroyed the small town of
Massa di Somma. One of the peculiarities of this eruption was the great fluidity of the lava;
another was the never-ceasing thundering of the mountain. During that day we observed several
violent explosions in the great stream of lava: we thought from the enormous volumes of black
smoke emitted on these occasions that new craters had burst out--some below the level of the
Observatory; but that can hardly have been the case. My daughters at night drove to Portici,
and went up to the top of a house, where the noise seems to have been appalling; but they told
me they did not gain anything by going to Portici, nor did they see the eruption better than
I did who remained at Santa Lucia, for you get too much below the mountain on going near. On
Sunday, 28th, I was surprised at the extreme darkness, and on looking out of window saw men
walking with umbrellas; Vesuvius was emitting such an enormous quantity of ashes, or rather
fine black sand, that neither land, sea, nor sky was visible; the fall was a little less dense
during the day, but at night it was worse than ever. Strangers seemed to be more alarmed at
this than at the eruption, and certainly the constant loud roaring of Vesuvius was appalling
enough amidst the darkness and gloom of the falling ashes. The railroad was crowded with both
natives and foreigners, escaping; on the other hand, crowds came from Rome to see the eruption.
We were not at all afraid, for we considered that the danger was past when so great an eruption
had acted as a kind of safety-valve to the pent-up vapours. But a silly report got about that
an earthquake was to take place, and many persons passed the night in driving or walking about
the town, avoiding narrow streets. The mountain was quite veiled for some days by vapour and
ashes, but I could see the black smoke and silvery mass above it. While looking at this, a
magnificent column, black as jet, darted with inconceivable violence and velocity to an immense
height; it gave a grand idea of the power that was still in action in the fiery caverns below.

Immense injury has been done by this eruption, and much more would have been done had not the
lava flowed to a great extent over that of 1868. Still the streams ran through Massa di Somma,
San Sebastiano, and other villages scattered about the country, overwhelming fields, woods,
vineyards, and houses. The ashes, too, have not only destroyed this year's crops, but killed
both vines and fruit trees, so that altogether it has been most disastrous. Vesuvius was involved
in vapour and ashes till far on in May, and one afternoon at sunset, when all below was in
shade, and only a few silvery threads of steam were visible, a column of the most beautiful
crimson colour rose from the crater, and floated in the air. Many of the small craters still
smoked, one quite at the base of the cone, which is a good deal changed--it is lower, the small
northern cone has disappeared, and part of the walls of the crater have fallen in, and there
is a fissure in them through which smoke or vapour is occasionally emitted.

       *     *     *     *     *

On the 1st June we returned to Sorrento, this time to a pretty and cheerful apartment close
to the sea, where I led very much the same pleasant life as the year before--busy in the morning
with my own studies, and passing the rest of the day on the terrace with my daughters, who
brought me beautiful wild flowers from their excursions over the country. Many of the flowers
they brought were new to me, and it is a curious fact that some plants which did not grow in
this part of the country a few years ago are now quite common. Amongst others, the Trachelium
coeruleum, a pretty wall-plant, native of Calabria, and formerly unknown here, now clothes
many an old wall near Naples, and at Sorrento. The ferns are extremely beautiful here. Besides
those common to England, the Pteris cretica grows luxuriantly in the damp ravines, as well
as that most beautiful of European ferns, the Woodwardia radicans, whose fronds are often more
than six feet long. The inhabitants of Sorrento are very superior to the Neapolitans, both
in looks and character; they are cleanly, honest, less cruel to animals, and have pleasant
manners--neither too familiar nor cringing. As the road between Sorrento and Castellamare was
impassable, owing to the fall of immense masses of rock from the cliffs above it, we crossed
over in the steamer with our servants and our pet birds, for I now have a beautiful long-tailed
parroquet called Smeraldo, who is my constant companion and is very familiar. Among the numerous
plans for the education of the young, let us hope that mercy may be taught us a part of religion.

       *     *     *     *     *

Though far advanced in years, I take as lively an interest as ever in passing events. I regret
that I shall not live to know the result of the expedition to determine the currents of the
ocean, the distance of the earth from the sun determined by the transits of Venus, and the
source of the most renowned of rivers, the discovery of which will immortalise the name of
Dr. Livingstone. But I regret most of all that I shall not see the suppression of the most
atrocious system of slavery that ever disgraced humanity--that made known to the world by Dr.
Livingstone and by Mr. Stanley, and which Sir Bartle Frere has gone to suppress by order of
the British Government.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Blue Peter has been long flying at my foremast, and now that I am in my ninety-second year
I must soon expect the signal for sailing. It is a solemn voyage, but it does not disturb my
tranquillity. Deeply sensible of my utter unworthiness, and profoundly grateful for the innumerable
blessings I have received, I trust in the infinite mercy of my Almighty Creator. I have every
reason to be thankful that my intellect is still unimpaired, and, although my strength is weakness,
my daughters support my tottering steps, and, by incessant care and help, make the infirmities
of age so light to me that I am perfectly happy.

       *     *     *     *     *

I have very little more to add to these last words of my Mother's Recollections. The preceding
pages will have given the reader some idea--albeit perhaps a very imperfect one--of her character
and opinions. Only regarding her feelings on the most sacred of themes, is it needful for me
to say a few words. My mother was profoundly and sincerely religious; hers was not a religion
of mere forms and doctrines, but a solemn deep-rooted faith which influenced every thought,
and regulated every action of her life. Great love and reverence towards God was the foundation
of this pure faith, which accompanied her from youth to extreme old age, indeed to her last
moments, which gave her strength to endure many sorrows, and was the mainspring of that extreme
humility which was so remarkable a feature of her character.

At a very early age she dared to think for herself, fearlessly shaking off those doctrines
of her early creed which seemed to her incompatible with the unutterable goodness and greatness
of God; and through life she adhered to her simple faith, holding quietly and resolutely to
the ultimate truths of religion, regardless alike of the censure of bigots or the smiles of
sceptics. The theories of modern science she welcomed as quite in accordance with her religious
opinions. She rejected the notion of occasional interference by the Creator with His work,
and believed that from the first and invariably He has acted according to a system of harmonious
laws, some of which we are beginning faintly to recognise, others of which will be discovered
in course of time, while many must remain a mystery to man while he inhabits this world. It
was in her early life that the controversy raged respecting the incompatibility of the Mosaic
account of Creation, the Deluge, &c., with the revelations of geology. My mother very soon
accepted the modern theories, seeing in them nothing in any way hostile to true religious belief.
It is singular to recall that her candid avowal of views now so common, caused her to be publicly
censured by name from the pulpit of York Cathedral. She foresaw the great modifications in
opinion which further discoveries will inevitably produce; but she foresaw them without doubt
or fear. Her constant prayer was for light and truth, and its full accomplishment she looked
for confidently in the life beyond the grave. My mother never discussed religious subjects
in general society; she considered them far too solemn to be talked of lightly; but with those
near and dear to her, and with very intimate friends, whose opinion agreed with her own, she
spoke freely and willingly. Her mind was constantly occupied with thoughts on religion; and
in her last years especially she reflected much on that future world which she expected soon
to enter, and lifted her heart still more frequently to that good Father whom she had loved
so fervently all her life, and in whose merciful care she fearlessly trusted in her last hour.

My mother's old age was a thoroughly happy one. She often said that not even in the joyous
spring of life had she been more truly happy. Serene and cheerful, full of life and activity,
as far as her physical strength permitted, she had none of the infirmities of age, except difficulty
in hearing, which prevented her from joining in general conversation. She had always been near-sighted,
but could read small print with the greatest ease without glasses, even by lamp-light. To the
last her intellect remained perfectly unclouded; her affection for those she loved, and her
sympathy for all living beings, as fervent as ever; nor did her ardent desire for and belief
in the ultimate religious and moral improvement of mankind diminish. She always retained her
habit of study, and that pursuit, in which she had attained such excellence and which was always
the most congenial to her,--Mathematics--delighted and amused her to the end. Her last occupations,
continued to the actual day of her death, were the revision and completion of a treatise, which
she had written years before, on the "Theory of Differences" (with diagrams exquisitely drawn),
and the study of a book on Quaternions. Though too religious to fear death, she dreaded outliving
her intellectual powers, and it was with intense delight that she pursued her intricate calculations
after her ninetieth and ninety-first years, and repeatedly told me how she rejoiced to find
that she had the same readiness and facility in comprehending and developing these extremely
difficult formulæ which she possessed when young. Often, also, she said how grateful she was
to the Almighty Father who had allowed her to retain her faculties unimpaired to so great an
age. God was indeed loving and merciful to her; not only did He spare her this calamity, but
also the weary trial of long-continued illness. In health of body and vigour of mind, having
lived far beyond the usual span of human life, He called her to Himself. For her Death lost
all its terrors. Her pure spirit passed away so gently that those around her scarcely perceived
when she left them. It was the beautiful and painless close of a noble and a happy life.

My mother died in sleep on the morning of the 29th Nov., 1872. Her remains rest in the English
Campo Santo of Naples.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18: "Darwinism in Morals," &c.]

THE END.

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.