The parallels and contrasts with MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS need not be further laboured. But far
too little stress has been laid on the rare felicity of a union which links the name of Mary
with that of Douglas. The annals of British chivalry contain no more romantic or splendid entries
than those associated with Sir JAMES DOUGLAS, alternately styled the "Good" and the "Black,"
hero of seventy battles and the victor in fifty-seven, peerless as a raider, who crowned a
glorious career by his mission to Palestine with the embalmed heart of BRUCE, and his death
in action against the Moors. His illustrious namesake is now conducting a "raid" on our shores
of a purely educational and humanitarian nature, and our welcome, while it expresses the rare
and momentous influence of the film, is no mere gratitude for pleasure afforded; it is rather
the recognition of a human touch tending to make the whole English-speaking world kin.

The visit is not unattended by risks, for the ardour of enthusiasm imposes a corresponding
strain on the endurance of this august and inimitable pair. But there can be no doubt as to
the absolute sincerity and spontaneity of these marvellous demonstrations of loyal affection.
We can only hope that, to borrow the noble phrase of the Roman Senate in their address to NERO
on the death of AGRIPPINA, Queen PICKFORD the First may "endure her felicity with fortitude."
Conspicuous grandeur has its penalties as well as its privileges, but the chivalric instinct
is still alive in our midst; and all of us who are not perverted or debased by the malign "wizardry"
of the PRIME MINISTER will spring to the defence of MARY "the Sweetheart of the World," and
DOUGLAS "tender and true," in their hours of peril. In that high emprise the gentlemen of the
world, however humble, stand, as of old time, side by side and shoulder to shoulder.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BATTLE OF THE MOTHERS.

We were sitting in the smoking-room when the Venerable Archdeacon entered. He had been so long
absent that we asked him the reason.

Had he been ill?

Ill? Not he. He never was better in his life. He had merely been on a motor tour with his mother.

"Do you mean to say," someone inquired--an equally elderly member--almost with anger, certainly
with a kind of outraged surprise, "that you have a mother still living?"

"Of course I have," said the Man of God. "My mother is not only living but is in the pink of
condition."

"And how old is she?" the questioner continued.

"She is ninety-one," said the Archdeacon proudly.

Most of us looked at him with wonder and respect--even a touch of awe.

"And still motoring!" I commented.

"She delights in motoring."

"Well," said the angry man, "you needn't be so conceited about it. You are not the only person
with an aged mother. I have a mother too."

We switched round to this new centre of surprise. It was more incredible that this man should
have a mother even than the Archdeacon. No one had ever suspected him of anything so extreme,
for he had a long white beard and hobbled with a stick.

"And how old may your mother be?" the Archdeacon inquired.

"My mother is ninety-two."

"And is she well and hearty?"

"My mother," he replied, "is in rude health--or, as you would say, full of beans."

The Archdeacon made a deprecatory movement, repudiating the metaphor.

"She not only motors," the layman pursued, "but she can walk. Can your mother walk?"

"I am sorry to say," said the Archdeacon, "that my mother has to be helped a good deal."

"Ha!" said the layman.

"But," the Archdeacon continued, "she has all her other faculties. Can your mother still read?"

"My mother is a most accomplished and assiduous knitter," said the bearded man.

"No doubt, no doubt," the Archdeacon agreed; "but my question was, Can she still read?"

"With glasses--yes," said the other.

"Ha!" exclaimed the Archdeacon, "I thought so. Now my dear mother can still read the smallest
print without glasses."

We murmured our approval.

"And more," the Archdeacon went on, "she can thread her own needle."

We approved again.

"That's all very well," said the other, "but sight is not everything. Can your mother hear?"

"She can hear all that I say to her," replied the Archdeacon.

"Ah! but you probably raise your voice, and she is accustomed to it. Could she hear a stranger?
Could she hear me?"

Remembering the tone of some of his after-lunch conversations I suggested that perhaps it would
be well if on occasions she could not. He glowered down such frivolousness and proceeded with
his cross-examination. "Are you trying to assure us that your mother is not in the least bit deaf?"

"Well," the Archdeacon conceded, "I could not go so far as to say that her hearing is still
perfect."

The layman smiled his satisfaction. "In other words," he said, "she uses a trumpet?"

The Archdeacon was silent.

"She uses a trumpet, Sir? Admit it."

"Now and then," said the Archdeacon, "my dear mother has recourse to that aid."

"I knew it!" exclaimed the other. "My mother can hear every word. She goes to the theatre too.
Now your mother would have to go to the cinema if she wished to be entertained."

"My mother," said the Archdeacon, "would not be interested in the cinema" (he pronounced it
ki-neema); "her mind is of a more serious turn."

"My mother is young enough to be interested in anything," said the other. "And there is not
one of her thirty-eight grandchildren of whose progress she is not kept closely informed."

He leaned back with a gesture of triumph.

"How many grandchildren did you say?" the Archdeacon inquired. "I didn't quite catch."

"Thirty-eight," the other man replied.

Across the cleric's ascetic features a happy smile slowly and conqueringly spread. "My mother,"
he said, "has fifty-two grandchildren. And now," he turned to me, "which of us would you say
has won this entertaining contest?"

"I should not like to decide," I said. "I am--fortunately perhaps for your mothers--no Solomon.
My verdict is that both of you are wonderfully lucky men."

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A KNOWING OLD BIRD. This includes DISRAELI'S correspondence with QUEEN VICTORIA during his
two Premierships, and the still more remarkable letters that he wrote to the two favoured sisters,
ANNE, Lady CHESTERFIELD, and SELINA, Lady BRADFORD, during the last eight years of his life.
To one or other of them he wrote almost every day, and from the sixteen hundred letters that
have been preserved Mr. BUCKLE has selected with happy discretion a multitude of passages which
throw a vivid light upon the political events of the time and upon DISRAELI'S own character.
Whereas the first four volumes of the biography might be likened to a good sound Burgundy,
thanks to these letters the last two sparkle and stimulate like a vintage champagne. As we
read them we seem to be present at the scenes described, to overhear the discussions at the
Cabinet, to catch a glimpse of the actors en déshabillé. Mr. BUCKLE says that "Disraeli, from
first to last, regarded his life as a brightly tinted romance, with himself as hero." In one
of his letters to Lady BRADFORD he says, "I live for Power and the Affections." A poseur, no
doubt, he was, but not a charlatan. His industry was amazing and his insight almost uncanny.
"I know not why Japan should not become the Sardinia of the Mongolian East," he writes in 1875.
To the political student these Volumes will be almost as fruitful a field as BURKE; for myself,
I have found them more fascinating than any novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seams a great pity that Mr. KIPLING'S Letters of Travel (MACMILLAN) contains nothing later
than 1913. It would have been particularly interesting to see how far the events of the great
tragedy might have modified or aggravated his scorn against those who do not see eye to eye
with him. In the pre-war KIPLING, as we have him here, "Labour" is always the enemy, "Democracy"
the hypocritical cant of cranks and slackers. What do they know of England who only KIPLING
know? Well, they know one side of it, and a fine side. The first sheaf of letters--"From Tideway
to Tideway (1892)"--describes a tour through America and Canada, with a rather too obvious
bias against the habits and institutions of the former, but with so eloquent a presentation
of the dream and fact of imperial pioneering service that it might draw even from a Little
Englander, "Almost thou persuadest me!" "Letters to the Family" deals with the Canada of 1907,
a very different entity from the Canada of to-day after the later Imperial Conferences and
five years' trial of war, but none the less interesting to hear about. A voyage in 1913, undertaken
"for no other reason but to discover the sun," is the begetter of the third group, "Egypt and
the Egyptians," the first letter of which will not, I imagine, be reprinted and framed by the
P. and O. Brilliant word-pictures of things seen, thumbnail sketches of odd characters, clever
records of remembered speech, intelligent comment from a well-defined point of view--these
you will have expected, and will get.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lady DOROTHY MILLS, who has already made some success as a holder of the mirror up to a certain
section of ultra-smart society, continues this benevolent work in her new novel, The Laughter
of Fools (DUCKWORTH). It is a clever tale, almost horridly well told, about the war-time behaviour
of the rottenest idle-rich element, in the disorganised and hectic London of 1917-18. Perhaps
the observation is superficial; but, just so far as it pretends to go, Lady DOROTHY'S method
does undoubtedly get home. Her heroine, Louise, is a detestable little egoist, whose vanity
and entire lack of moral render her an easy victim to the vampire crowd into which she drifts.
The "sensation" scenes, night club orgies, dope parties and the like will probably bring the
book a boom of curiosity; but there are not wanting signs, in the author's easy unforced method,
that with a larger theme she may one day write a considerably bigger book. The Laughter of
Fools, one may say, ends tragically; Louise, after exhausting all her other activities, being
left about to join a nursing expedition to Northern Russia. Which, judging by previous revelations
of her general incompetence, is where the tragedy comes in--for the prospective patients. A
moral rather carefully unmoralised is how I should sum up an unpleasant but shrewdly written tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

To The Diary of a U-Boat Commander (HUTCHINSON) "ETIENNE" adds an introduction and some explanatory
notes. In one of these notes we are told that the Diary was left in a locker when the Commander
handed over his boat to the British. We are all at liberty to form any opinion we like on the
use made of this Diary and I am not going to reveal mine. For, after all, it is the book itself--however
produced--that matters, and even those of us who are getting a little shy of literature connected
with the War will find something original and intriguing in this Diary. With what seems to
me unnecessary frankness the publisher refers to the Commander's "incredible exploits and adventures
on the high seas." For my own part my powers of belief in regard to the War are almost unlimited,
and the only thing that really staggers me here is the mentality of the diarist. From the record
of his purely private life, which is also exposed in these pages, I gather that he was as unfortunate
in love as in war; but he seems to have loved with a whole-hearted passion that goes far to
redeem him. I must add a word of praise for Mr. FRANK MASON'S illustrations, which contributed
generously to my entertainment.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OPEN LETTER TO FRANCE.

Mr. Punch had kissed the lady's hand and she had smiled upon him very graciously, for they
were old friends.

"I have brought you a letter from myself," he said.

"Shall I read it while you wait?" said Madame la France.

"Please, no. I never read my contributors' compositions in their presence. It is embarrassing
to both sides. And I want you to take your time over this one, and consider carefully whether
it is suitable for publication in your Press. I have enclosed a stamped and addressed envelope,
to be utilized in the event of your deciding to return my communication with regrets. In any
case I propose to publish it in my own paper, The London Charivari."

[Here begins the letter:--

"NEAREST AND DEAREST OF ALLIES.--You and I (I speak for my country, though I have not been
asked to do so) have gone through so much together that it would be an infinite pity if any
misunderstanding were suffered to cloud our friendship for want of a little candour on my part.
No Entente can retain its cordiality without mutual candour; and hitherto the reticence has
been all on our side.

"Not when your splendid courage and your noble sacrifices gave us a theme; then we were always
frankly loud in our admiration; but when we reflected upon what I may venture to call your
faults and failings. Whatever we may have thought about them during all those terrible years,
you will find in our public statements no note of criticism and not a single word that did
not breathe a true loyalty. You too were generous in your praise of us when we won battles;
and at the end, with your own FOCH for witness, you were quick to recognise what part we played
in those great Autumn days that brought the crowning victory. But it almost looks as if your
memory of our brotherhood in arms were beginning to fail; as if we, who were then hailed as
your 'glorious Ally,' were about to resume our old name--it has already been revived in some
quarters--of 'Perfide Albion.'

"Oh, I know that the best of France is loyal to us; that her true chivalry understands. But
what of your public that is all ear for the so-called Echo de Paris, with its constant incitement
to jealousy and suspicion of England? What of your second-rate Press and its pin-pricking policy,
connived at, if not actually encouraged, by your Government?

"Of course I recognise that you never really liked the idea of all those British soldiers making
themselves at home in your country, though they did it as nicely as it could be done, and made
hosts of friends in the process. I can believe that we should not have been too well pleased
at having a like number of French troops established between Dover and London. I don't say
we should have charged you rent for every yard of their trenches or claimed heavy damages for
any injury they might have done to our roads in the course of defending the Metropolis from
our common enemy. But we certainly should not have been depressed when we found that they needn't
stay any longer. Still I hope we should have registered on the tablets of our hearts a permanent
record indicating that we appreciated their friendliness in coming to our support.

"But I am told that the secret of the present attitude of our French critics is that they cannot
forgive us for having used the soil of France in order to defend our own. Is this quite fair
or even decent? Let me refresh their memory of the motive that brought us into this War. The
true motive was not to be found in the duty imposed upon us by Germany's breach of the Belgian
Treaty, though that in itself furnished us with an unanswerable reason. The true motive was
our desire to help you. We had nothing in those days to fear for ourselves. We knew that our
Fleet was strong enough to protect our own shores. We had not yet appreciated the submarine
menace; we did not recognise what your loss of the Channel ports might mean for us. We entered
the War because we could not look on and see you overwhelmed.

"You complain, again, that, in contrast to yourselves, we have got all we wanted out of the
War. As a fact we wanted nothing; but let that pass. You point to the destruction of the German
Fleet as if it were a private gain for us and us alone, and not the removal of a danger to
the whole world. And what of the German armies--now in process of reduction to a mere police
force? Did you derive no advantage from the overthrow of a system which was always a greater
menace to you than the German Fleet ever was to us? And, though we did not pretend to be a
military nation, had we not some little share in that achievement?

"And what of your revanche? How do the German Colonies, which we have freed and now hold in
trust--how do these compare with your solid recovery of Alsace-Lorraine? No, you have not come
badly out of Armageddon.

"Oh, you have suffered, that we know; you have suffered even more than we, who at least were
spared the ravaging of our lands. And never for a moment do we forget this. But you too must
not forget that where the soil of France suffered most there thickest lie our English dead,
who fought for England's freedom, yes, but for your freedom too. And it is we who stand by
you still, pledged to be once more at your side if the same peril ever come again; though America,
for whom nothing was once too good, should fail you in your need.

"There, I have said what I wanted to say; what your best friends here have been thinking this
many a day. For your best friends are not, as you might imagine, to be found in a certain section
of our Press who for their own political or private ends are prepared to encourage all your
suspicions if so they may injure the good name of our statesmen who meet you in council for
the common cause. Your best friends are the men who deplore those suspicions; who beg you,
as I do here, to get them swept away as being unworthy of a great nation and a great alliance.

"For this end, Believe me, dear Madame, to be at your service as always,

"PUNCH."

Here ends the letter.]

"And now, dear lady," said Mr. Punch, "let me say that, if there is anything in this letter
which seems--but only on the surface--to be inconsistent with my profound devotion to your
person, it is the first word of the kind that I have put on paper since our friendship began.
All through the War and the hardly less trying times of Peace that have followed it I have
not once swerved from my loyalty to you. Accept, I beg of you, the renewed assurance of my
affection the most sincere, and, for token, this latest of a series in which you will find
many proofs of the love I bear you--my

ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-EIGHTH VOLUME."

       *       *       *       *       *

CARTOONS.

  PARTRIDGE, BERNARD
    Air-Craftiness, 471
    Another Reservation, 111
    Blameless Accomplice (The), 511
    Dark Horse (A), 431
    Exit the Ministering Angel, 371
    Forgotten Cause (The), 211
    Great Improviser (The), 451
    His First Patient, 491
    Homage from the Brave, 391
    Hope of the World (The), 271
    In a Cushy Cause, 331
    International Eurhythmics, 151
    Kindest Cut of All (The), 191
    Levy on Patriotism (A), 291
    Limit--and Beyond (The), 411
    Occasional Comrades, 251
    Reckoning (The), 351
    Restoring the Balance, 311
    Return of the ex-Champion (The), 171
    Rouge Gagne, 71
    Test of Sagacity (A), 131
    Unpopular Revival (An), 231
    Woman of Some Importance (A), 91

