The necessity for such an addition soon arose. At 8.15 a.m. on November 1st, the staff at Ladysmith
sent a wire to say that a Boer force had moved at daybreak towards Colenso. On receipt of this
news the garrison was warned to be ready, and patrols of the Imperial Light Horse and the Mounted
Infantry section of the battalion were dispatched towards Ladysmith, Springfield, and the country
beyond Hlangwane. These patrols returned soon after 1 p.m., and the party which had reconnoitred
towards Ladysmith reported that it had come into touch and exchanged shots with the enemy.
Later on in the afternoon, Lieutenant Cory, commanding the Mounted Infantry section, went out
again and reported that he had seen a hostile force, estimated at 2000 men, which was off-saddled
near the main Ladysmith road, some six miles out. He had skirmished with the scouts of this
commando and had lost one man. Another wire came from Ladysmith at the same time announcing
that the enemy had guns. Our piquets were, in consequence of these events, pushed forward to
the horseshoe ridge on the left bank of the Tugela, while the parties guarding the two bridges
(road and railway) over this river were reinforced. The night, however, passed quietly.

Mounted patrols were sent out at dawn of the 2nd, and Lieutenant Cory was able to report, at
6.45 a.m., that the Boers were still in the same position. But two hours later he forwarded
another message to the effect that the enemy was advancing on Grobelaar's Kloof. Soon afterwards
distant rifle-shots were heard, and the Mounted Infantry retired into camp. About 10 a.m. parties
of the enemy appeared on the top of Grobelaar's Mountain, and by the aid of a good telescope
it could be seen that they were busily engaged in digging. Their intention was not long in
doubt, for a thin cloud became visible on the sky-line, and the next moment a shell buried
itself in the river-bank.

Colonel Cooper at once ordered the tents to be lowered and the trenches to be manned. But the
enemy made no signs of attacking Colenso, and contented themselves by occasionally firing shells
which invariably fell short. The interruption of telegraphic communication with Ladysmith soon
after 3 p.m. proved, however, that the enemy was not being idle. Groups of Boers could be seen
on the hills overhanging the railway, and a train carrying General French was shelled after
leaving Pieters. The activity of our foes assumed a more aggressive character when, about 5
p.m., they began to bombard Fort Molyneux. From Colenso the shrapnel could be plainly seen
bursting over the work, and the piquets on the left bank of the Tugela reported that heavy
rifle-fire was in progress. As the garrison of the fort consisted only of eighty men of the
Durban Light Infantry, some anxiety was felt regarding their safety, and this uneasiness was
intensified by the arrival of one of the defenders, who announced that the redoubt was hard
pressed. Lieutenant Shewan, with one hundred men mostly from 'E' company, was promptly dispatched
to reinforce them in the armoured train. He found that the fort had been evacuated, but managed
to pick up several of the garrison in spite of the enemy's rifle and shrapnel fire. Captain
Hensley, who was holding the horseshoe ridge, also advanced with 'F' company, and, by firing
long-range volleys, helped to cover the retirement of the remainder of the garrison, the whole
of which reached Colenso in the night. Colonel Cooper telegraphed an account of these events
to Brigadier-General Wolfe-Murray at Maritzburg, who replied at nightfall that, since the safety
of Colenso bridge was very important, he would send the Border Regiment next day to reinforce
the garrison. But no mention was made of any artillery.

Colonel Cooper had now a difficult decision to arrive at. In front of him lay a superior force
of the enemy with guns far outranging his own obsolete muzzle-loaders, and during the afternoon
disquieting rumours, which might be true, of another commando at Springfield had reached him.
Ladysmith was invested, and the small garrisons of Colenso and Estcourt alone stood between
the Boers and Maritzburg. Having consulted the senior officers of the garrison, Colonel Cooper
sent another wire to General Wolfe-Murray explaining the situation, and in reply was authorised
to fall back to Estcourt if he could not hold Colenso. About 10 p.m. he reluctantly determined
to retire.

The mounted troops and the Natal Field Artillery went by road, starting at midnight. It was
decided to send the rest of the garrison by railway, and the stationmaster at Colenso, with
great energy, succeeded in obtaining three trains which arrived in the early hours of November 3rd.

The operation of entraining was at once commenced. The night was dark, and the packing of all
the tents, supplies, and equipment in the trucks proceeded but slowly. The Natal Naval Volunteers
had to bring their nine-pounder gun down the steep slope of Fort Wylie, a task requiring great
care and time; the piquets on the left bank of the river had to be withdrawn, and the two bridges
guarded up to the very last moment. Although everything was done in the utmost possible silence,
it yet seemed that the necessary shunting of the trains must warn the Boers of the evacuation,
and bring on an attack. But there was no interruption, and the last train steamed out of Colenso
station half an hour before dawn.

Estcourt was reached two hours later. The little town was already occupied by a detachment
of the Imperial Light Horse and Natal Mounted Rifles. During the morning there also arrived
from Maritzburg the 2nd Border Regiment,[2] afterwards to be the comrades of the battalion
in the 5th Brigade.

         [Footnote 2: A great friendship sprang up between this
         celebrated regiment and ourselves.]

Colonel Cooper took over the command of the garrison and immediately set to work on the arrangement
of the defences. The next day, however, General Wolfe-Murray and his staff appeared on the
scene. Estcourt had thus the honour of having three different commandants in two days.

CHAPTER IV.

ESTCOURT AND FRERE.

  'Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand
  judgment.'--Job, xxxii. 9.

The stay at Estcourt (November 3rd to 26th) was a period of great anxiety and hard work. That
there was cause for anxiety may be easily understood when the state of affairs is remembered.
The Army Corps had not yet arrived from England, nor could any fresh troops be expected before
the 10th. The Boers had invaded Natal, had shut up in Ladysmith the only British army in the
field, and could still afford to send five or six thousand men against Maritzburg. The Estcourt
garrison alone stood in their way.

There were necessarily many outposts, and tours were long and frequent. Thunderstorms, Natal
thunderstorms, visited the town with painful regularity, and rendered piquet work even more
uncomfortable than usual. It was a period of strained waiting, when every one wondered whether
a Boer commando or a British brigade would be the first arrival. Reliable news was scarce,
though rumours of every kind were rife.

The battalion was encamped in the market square, while the officers inhabited a small room
encumbered with planks. Trenches covered the town to the north and north-east, and were pushed
forward some two miles on the Weenen road. The citadel, so to speak, was the sugar-loaf hill,
on which Lieutenant James, R.N., constructed, towards the middle of the month, emplacements
for his two naval twelve-pounders. These guns arrived on November 14th, a welcome addition
to the garrison, which had been strengthened on the 13th by the West Yorkshire Regiment. These
reinforcements came at an opportune moment, for the Boers had at last moved forward and on
November 14th their patrols were close to Estcourt. Their approach caused a certain amount
of alarm, and at first the evacuation of the town was proposed. The camp was even struck, and
a great part of the baggage was put on to trains which were kept ready in the station. Later
on other counsels prevailed, and tents were raised again. It had rained most of the day, and
a general wetting was the chief result of this 'scare.' The Boers quickly made their presence
felt, and the next day inflicted a severe blow on the garrison.

Our mounted troops had been busily engaged in reconnaissance work, and in an evil hour it occurred
to the authorities that the armoured train was also an excellent means of gaining news. Captain
Hensley had taken it to Colenso on the 5th and 6th, and on the latter day surprised a party
of Boers engaged in looting the village. The dispatch of the train, unsupported by any mounted
troops, soon became almost a matter of daily routine. This defiance of common sense could have
only one result. On November 15th, Captain Haldane,[3] of the Gordon Highlanders, went out
in the train with 'A' company and some men of the Durban Light Infantry. He reached Frere and,
learning from a Natal policeman that the front was clear, pushed on to Chieveley. Here he saw
in the distance a small body of the enemy moving southwards, and, having telegraphed the information
to Estcourt, turned back. But as the train was running down a steep gradient the Boers suddenly
opened fire with two guns from a ridge to the west of the line. Almost immediately afterwards
the train was derailed by stones placed on the line, and the leading truck upset, thus stopping
the engine.

         [Footnote 3: He had been wounded at Elandslaagte, and, being
         unable to rejoin his corps in Ladysmith, was attached to the
         battalion.]

It was a predicament trying to the nerves of even the bravest. The Boer shells were well aimed,
and came in quick succession. But Captain Haldane and his men did all that could be done. Lieutenant
Frankland directed from the rear truck a vigorous fire, which kept the enemy at a respectful
distance, and even made them shift their gun. Meanwhile Mr. Winston Churchill, who had accompanied
the expedition as a Press correspondent, collected some men and set to work to push the derailed
truck off the line. They were exposed to a heavy fire, but eventually succeeded in their task.
The train began to move again; luck did not, however, favour them, for the coupling between
the engine and rear truck was broken by a shell. Then Captain Haldane ordered the engine to
return to Estcourt with as many wounded men as possible, while he attempted with the remainder
of the force to reach Frere station. The engine reached Estcourt, but Captain Haldane was not
so fortunate. The men left the trucks and started to run along the line. No sooner did our
rifle-fire cease than the Boers galloped down the hill and, before Captain Haldane could realise
the danger, they were among the men, and he had no course open but to surrender. The casualties
of 'A' company were three men killed, four or five wounded, and forty-two prisoners. Private
Kavanagh afterwards received the Distinguished Conduct Medal for his gallantry on this occasion.
The sound of the Boer guns could be distinctly heard at Estcourt, and great anxiety was felt.
A little group of officers assembled in the trenches to the west of the station, and eagerly
scanned the country through their glasses. Nothing could be seen, and the firing had ceased.
Suddenly through the air rang the shrill whistle of an engine, and at the sound every one gave
a sigh of relief. It was the armoured train, and all was well. Another whistle, and round a
sharp curve steamed the engine--but, alas! without the trucks. It was evident that a disaster
had occurred, although particulars were not received until late in the afternoon; while it
was weeks later before the list of casualties could be ascertained. Luckily this mishap occurred
when the situation had in other respects improved. The Army Corps was landing, and troops were
being pushed forward as quickly as possible. On the 16th, Estcourt was reinforced by the 2nd
Queen's and 2nd East Surreys of General Hildyard's brigade, and General Barton's Fusilier brigade
was assembling at Mooi River.

The Boers were thus too late, and so lost the opportunity of capturing Maritzburg. Although
they doubtless knew of the arrival of fresh troops, they still advanced, and, moving round
Estcourt, appeared on the hills to the north-west of Mooi River station. A detachment reconnoitred
Estcourt on the 18th, but a couple of shells from Lieutenant James's naval guns induced them
to stay at a distance.

The telegraph line south of the town was interrupted on the 22nd, and for a brief period the
garrison was cut off from the rest of the world. But the action of Willow Grange, in which
the battalion took no part, caused a retirement of the enemy, who retreated through Weenen
on the 24th.

Their retreat was in no degree molested by our troops; but on November 26th the long-desired
advance took place. It was an exhilarating feeling to leave Estcourt, and lose sight of those
hills and trenches, the scene of so many weary vigils. The army did not, however, make a big
stride forward. The advance was only to Frere, some ten miles nearer the Tugela.

As the column started at 8 a.m. there seemed every prospect of an easy day. But on active service
it is never safe to assume anything. Although no opposition was met with, and the mounted troops
hardly saw a Boer, the progress was very slow, and sunset found the rear of the column still
three miles distant from Frere. The battalion had the ill-luck to be in the rearguard, behind
a seemingly interminable line of transport. Then the inevitable drift intervened, and waggon
after waggon broke down. Finally, part of the transport decided to halt till the morning, and
the unfortunate rearguard was obliged to form a line of outposts. As the battalion transport
was some distance in front, this meant no blankets, no food, nothing save a limited amount
of Natal water. The men were not allowed to consume the emergency rations, and therefore had
to suffer from cold and hunger. The night passed somehow, however, and with the break of day
we marched into Frere, to find our waggons and obtain food.

Another monotonous fortnight was spent at Frere, the only excitement being the arrival of fresh
troops and the building of a temporary railway bridge over the Blaukranz. The arrival of Sir
Redvers Buller and his staff gave hopes of an early advance, and everybody discussed what our
General ought to do, strategical plans becoming as numerous as sandstorms.

Since leaving Ladysmith, the 2nd Dublin Fusiliers had not been attached to a brigade, and now
that the Army Corps had come there were not wanting pessimists who foretold that as the battalion
was nobody's child it would be sent to guard the lines of communication. Early in December,
however, it was assigned to General Hart's 5th, or Irish, Brigade, in place of the 1st Battalion.
The latter was ordered to send three companies, with a total strength of 287 men, to make up
for the wastage of six weeks' operations. These companies, which were commanded by Major Tempest
Hicks, arrived on December 7th, and were allowed at first to maintain a separate organization,
so that the 2nd Battalion had eleven companies.

The 5th Brigade was encamped close behind the ridge which lies to the north-west of the railway
station. General Hart utilised the fortnight at Frere in making his battalions accustomed to
his methods. Every day the whole brigade stood to arms an hour before dawn, and advanced up
the slope of the ridge, where it stayed until scouts had reported the front all clear. The
General was also very particular about the cleanliness of the camp, and made it a rule to go
through the lines every morning.

CHAPTER V.

THE BATTLE OF COLENSO.

  'Never shame to hear what you have nobly done.'--Coriolanus.

On December 12th, the 6th and Naval Brigades marched from Frere to Chieveley, and the rest
of the army followed the next day. The battalion happened to be finding the outposts, and could
not march with the 5th Brigade. Some delay in collecting the companies was experienced, so
it was not until 1 p.m. that a start was made, and darkness came on before Chieveley was reached.
It was, however, a glorious moonlight night, and marching across the veld had a charm which
even the dust could not quite destroy. But romance soon gave way to more worldly feelings when,
on arriving at Chieveley about 8 p.m., it became necessary to find the brigade camp among the
hundreds of tents already pitched.

On the evening of the 14th, it was known that the army was to advance next day, and attempt
the passage of the Tugela. Colonel Cooper assembled his officers in order to explain the Divisional
and Brigade orders. He stated that the 5th Brigade would cross the river at a drift two miles
west of Colenso, then move down the left bank so as to take in rear the Boers defending Colenso
bridge, which would be attacked by the 2nd Brigade. The Brigade orders detailed the Dublin
Fusiliers to lead the advance to the river, and afterwards to cover the rear of the brigade
when it moved down the left bank. General Hart urged in addition the necessity of keeping the
men well in hand. They were to cheer in the event of a charge, but were not to be allowed to
make a wild rush.

Every one was early astir on December 15th. Breakfasts were at 3 a.m., but before that hour
tents had been struck and packed in the waggons, on which great-coats, blankets, and mess-tins
were also placed, so that the men only carried their haversacks, water-bottles, rifles, and
150 rounds. The brigade fell in at 3.30 a.m. It was still quite dark, and the Brigadier spent
the ensuing half-hour in drilling his command. The advance was commenced just as the eastern
horizon grew grey with the dawn.

The battalion, which led the brigade, deployed into line to the right, and then advanced by
fours from the right of companies. In front rode the General with his staff and a Kaffir guide;
behind came the other three battalions of the brigade in mass. The deployment of the battalion
had brought 'A' on the left, and 'H' and the three companies of the 1st Battalion on the right.

In this order the brigade moved across the broad expanse of veld, leading to the banks of the
Tugela. In front, beyond the river, rose tier on tier of ridges and kopjes, backed by the towering
mass of Grobelaar's Kloof. In the morning light they looked strangely quiet and deserted. Only
on a spur to the left front could be seen a few black specks, the figures of watching Boers.

Soon the naval guns in front of Chieveley opened fire, dropping their shells on the horseshoe
ridge to the north of Colenso, and into a kraal further to the west. But no answer came. The
brigade moved on, tramping through the long grass, wet with the dew. There was a momentary
halt in order to cross a spruit running diagonally across the line of march. The ridges in
front grew nearer and plainer. They still seemed deserted, although the eyes of many foes might
be watching the advancing khaki-clad troops. Behind came the thunder of the big guns, and the
shells screamed in the air overhead. It was past 6 a.m. Suddenly the hiss of a shell sounded
marvellously close, there was a metallic clang, and a cloud of dust arose some hundred yards
in front. It was a Boer shrapnel, and the battle had begun.

Each company of the battalion, without waiting for orders, 'front-formed,' and doubled forward.
The mounted officers at once dismounted, Major Hicks' horse being shot under him as he was
in the very act of getting off its back. Somehow it did not seem a bit strange to him at the
time that his horse should be down, and it never occurred to him then that it had been shot.
Another shrapnel burst over the line and then the enemy's musketry blazed forth, finding an
excellent target in the massed brigade, which was deploying as best it could.

The battalion was dangerously crowded together, for it had been advancing as if drilling on
the barrack square, although Colonel Cooper had tried to open out to double company interval,
a proceeding which the General had promptly counter-ordered. But all did their best. The men
rushed forward after their officers, and at their signal lay down in the long grass, whence
fire was opened at the invisible foe.

It was very difficult to discover the Boer positions. There was one long trench near the kraal
which the naval guns had been shelling, and further to the west could be seen another parapet
from which came an occasional puff of smoke betraying a Martini rifle and black powder. But
if the Boers could not be seen, they could be both heard and felt. There was one ceaseless
rattle of mausers, and a constant hum of bullets only drowned by the scream of the shells.

Short rushes were made as a rule, and the flank companies edged away in order to give room
for a more reasonable extension. But no sooner had the battalion opened out than it was reinforced
by companies of the Connaught Rangers, and, later, of the Inniskilling Fusiliers and the Border
Regiment. In a comparatively short time, after the first Boer shell, the 5th Brigade had been
practically crowded into one line. Officers led men of all the four regiments, and encouraged
them with the cry, 'Come on, the Irish Brigade!'

There was no control, no cohesion, no arrangement in the attack. No attempt was made to support,
by the careful fire of one part of the line, the advance of the remainder; nor did any order
from the higher ranks reach the firing line. Small groups of men, led by an officer, jumped
up, dashed forward a few scores of yards, and then lay down. Nobody knew where the drift was,
nobody had a clear idea of what was happening. All pushed forward blindly, animated by the
sole idea of reaching the river-bank.

On the left, part of the battalion was almost on the river when the Boers first opened fire,
and quickly reached the bank. After a short halt they turned to their right and moved in single
file along the river, being exposed all the time to a heavy fire. They passed through a kraal,
and eventually, not being able to find the drift, assembled in a hollow, where they stayed
until orders to retire reached them. The centre and right advanced through low scrub into a
loop of the river. Some sections of the 1st Battalion, on the extreme right, came upon a spruit,
and, under shelter of its banks, pushed ahead of the line.

Thus, by short and constant rushes, the assailants worked their way forward. A brigade of field
artillery was supporting the attack from behind, but they found it as difficult as the infantry
did to locate the Boers, and most of their shells were quite harmless to the enemy, while a
few dropped close to the attacking infantry. They aided the latter indirectly, however, since
the Boer guns turned their attention to them.

General Sir Redvers Buller had early recognised the difficulties of the 5th Brigade, and sent
orders for it to retire. But it is easier to send a force into a battle than to draw it back.
The great difficulty at Colenso was to communicate with the company officers, who had to be
left entirely to their own 'initiative.' Finally an officer of the Connaught Rangers volunteered
to take to the firing line General Hart's written order to retire. He succeeded in reaching
the front, but then, thinking he had struck the right of the line, turned to his left. In reality
he had gone to the centre of the attack, and, consequently, the retirement was carried out
partially and by fractions. The left fell back about 10 a.m. in good order, though the Boers,
as usual, redoubled their fire when they saw their foes begin to retreat. The centre and right,
having received no order nor warning, clung to their ground, and in some cases even made a
further advance. Section after section, however, gradually realised that their left flank was
uncovered and a general retreat of the brigade in progress. A score of men, under the command
of an officer, would rise up and double back, causing, as they did so, an instant quickening
of the enemy's fire. All around the running figures the bullets splashed, raising little jets
of dust. Occasionally a man would stumble forward, or sink down as if tired, but it seemed
wonderful that the rain of bullets did not claim more victims. They claimed enough, however,
of the unfortunate three companies of the 1st Battalion, whom the order to retire never reached.
Till 1 p.m., and the arrival of the Boers, they lay where they were, suffering a loss of some
60 per cent. When at last Major Hicks realised the situation, he touched with his stick the
man on his right, to tell him to pass the word to retire, but he touched a dead man; he turned
to the left, only to touch another corpse. One company was brought out of action by a lance-corporal.
Then the Boers arrived, and began making prisoners. One shouted to Major Hicks for his revolver;
he replied that he had not got one--it was in his holsters on his dead horse--and stalked indignantly
off the battlefield, without another question being put to him.

Major Gordon, who was commanding one of the three companies of the 1st Battalion, had been
shot through the knee early in the day by a rifle bullet. He lay for two hours or so momentarily
expecting to be hit again. After a time he noticed that as long as he lay still no bullets
came in his direction, but that the moment he attempted to move there would be a vicious hiss
and spurt of sand and dust close beside him. In spite of this he managed to crawl through a
pool of blood to a neighbouring ant-heap, which offered some sort of protection, and into which
a bullet plunged just as he reached it. Here he remained till the retirement, when, assisted
by two sergeants of the regiment, Keenan and Dillon, he managed to hobble away. Even then he
noticed that as long as they kept away from the troops who were still actively engaged few
bullets came their way, as though the Boers were purposely not firing at the wounded.

The Boer heavy artillery pursued the retiring troops with shells, which made a prodigious noise,
and raised clouds of dust, but seldom did any damage. Gradually a region of comparative peace
was reached, where the ground was not being continually struck by bullets, and only an occasional
shell fell. The extended lines of the 4th Brigade, ordered to cover the retirement, came into
view, and behind them the men of the Irish Brigade collected again in companies and battalions.
Then, although the artillery was still roaring fiercely, and the mausers rattled with tireless
persistence, the brigade trudged back to its former camping-ground, pitched tents, and began
to cook dinners. A prosaic but practical ending to an impossible attack.

But there was still one task to accomplish--the preparation of the casualty list: The regiment
had suffered heavily. Two officers, Captain Bacon (1st Battalion) and Lieutenant Henry, had
been killed, and three, Major Gordon (1st Battalion), Captain Shewan, and Lieutenant Macleod
(1st Battalion), wounded. The total casualties were 219, of whom 52 were killed. Among the
latter were Colour-Sergeant Gage (mortally wounded) and Sergeant Hayes.

Captain Bacon (1st Battalion) was killed by a bullet, and must have died immediately. He had
previously served for a short time with the 2nd Battalion, in which he had many friends, and
his loss was bitterly deplored by Officers, N.C.O.'s, and Privates alike.

Lieutenant Henry had scarcely two years' service, but had in that short space of time endeared
himself to every one in the regiment, and was as smart and efficient a young officer as ever
joined it. His death must also have been mercifully instantaneous, as he was hit by a shell.

Second Lieutenant Macleod had only joined the 1st Battalion a few days before it left the Curragh
on November 10th. He was very severely wounded, his thigh being broken, and although his leg
was saved, it was left two inches shorter than it had been, and in the end he had to leave
the service on this account.

Major Gordon (1st Battalion), who received a Brevet Lieutenant-Colonelcy for his services,
was invalided home, but came out again later on; while Captain Shewan, who had been shot through
the leg by a bullet, was back at work again in twelve days, a sterling proof of that devotion
to duty which was later on rewarded by the well-merited distinction of the D.S.O.

The three companies of the 1st Battalion had been the greatest sufferers. Being on the right,
they were the last to retire; in fact, some of the men did not get in till 5 p.m., while a
few were taken prisoners on the banks of the river.

Amongst a host of others who showed their worth under the trying circumstances of this unfortunate
day, was Bugler Dunne, a small boy who did his duty well, and had the good fortune to be received
by Her Majesty the Queen on his return home. His father was also in South Africa, a Colour-Sergeant
in the 5th Battalion. Isolated cases must always receive undue prominence--it is the way of
the world--but the spirit of the men was quite remarkable throughout, and made officers and
N.C.O.'s proud to command and lead them. Instead of depressing them, the reverse seemed to
have a contrary effect, and merely hardened their determination to succeed.

CHAPTER VI.

VENTER'S SPRUIT.

  'Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but
  grievous.'--Heb. xii. 11.

The greater part of December 16th was spent in burying the dead. At nightfall orders were received
to strike camp, and the brigade marched back to Frere, which was reached in the early morning
of the 17th, when we occupied our former camping-ground.

Another weary wait followed. Frere at the best of times is an uninteresting spot, but it became
absolutely repulsive as the grass disappeared and mud and flies reigned supreme. Life in the
camp was monotonous, only slightly preferable to the long tours of outpost duty, and a bathe
in the river, varied by a walk round the lines, formed the only amusement.

General Hart did not relax any of his precautions, and his command still stood to arms every
morning. The rest of the army assembled at Frere seemed, so far as could be seen, to rely on
the 5th Brigade, for no other unit followed the latter's example.

Our listlessness was broken on January 6th, when the thunder of the guns around Ladysmith was
so distinct that it seemed as if Chieveley must be attacked. Everybody soon learned that the
Boers were making a desperate attempt to capture the town, and there was naturally some anxiety
as to the result.

A few days afterwards, signs of another forward movement became apparent. One cheerful omen
was the arrival of the doctors, whose duty it was to convey the wounded back to the base, and
of a large body of civilian stretcher-bearers. General Warren's Division, fresh from England,
marched in, and the second effort to relieve Ladysmith was begun.

