  That great lyre's golden echoes rolled away!
  Forth tripped another claimant of the bay.
  Trim, tittivated, tintinnabulant,
  His bosom aped the true Parnassian pant,
  As may a housemaid's leathern bellows mock
  The rock--whelmed Titan's breathings. He no shock
  Of bard-like shagginess shook to the breeze.
  A modern Cambrian Minstrel hopes to please
  By undishevelled dandy-daintiness,
  Whether of lays or locks, of rhymes or dress.
  Some bards pipe from Parnassus, some from Hermon;
  Room for the singer of the Sunday Sermon!
  His stimulant tepid tea, his theme a text,
  Carmarthen's cultured caroller comes next!

THE WORTH OF VERSE.

AIR--"The Birth of Verse."

  Wild thoughts which occupy the brain,
    Vague prophecies which fill the ear,
  Dim perturbation, precious pain,
    A gleam of hope, a chill of fear,--
  These vex the poet's spirit. Moral:--
  Have a shy at the Laureate Laurel!

  Some say no definite thought there is
    In my full flatulence of sound.
  Let National Observers quiz
    (H-NL-Y won't have it. I'll be bound!)
  Envy! O trumpery, O MORRIS!
  Could JUVENAL jealous be of HORACE?

  I know the chambers of my soul
    Are filled with laudatory airs,
  Such as the salaried bard should troll
    When he the Laureate laurels wears.
  And I am he who opened Hades,
  To harmless parsons and to ladies!

  For I can "moralise my song"
    More palpably than Mr. POPE;
  And I can touch the toiling throng:
    There is small doubt of that, I hope.
  I've piped for him who ploughs the furrows,
  And stood for the Carmarthen Boroughs.

  I mayn't be strong, inspired, complete,
    But on the Liberal goose I'm sound.
  And I can count my (rhythmic) feet
    With any Pegasus around.
  I witch all women, and some men,
  GLADSTONE I've drawn, and written "Gwen."

  If these be not sufficient claims,
    The worth of Verse is vastly small.
  I've called him various pretty names,
    The honoured Master of us all;
  "His place is with the Immortals." Yes!
  But I could fill it here, I guess!

  His "chaste white Muse" could not object,
    For mine is white, and awfully chaste.
  Now ALGERNON has no respect
    For purity and public taste.
  EDWIN is given to allegory.
  Whilst ALFRED is a wicked Tory!!!

  He ceased. Great PUNCHIUS rubbed his eagle beak.
  And said, "I think we'll take the rest next week!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IN A GHOST-SHOW.

    Warlock's "Celebrated Ghost-Exhibition and Deceptio Visus"
    has pitched its tent for the night on a Village Green, and the
    thrilling Drama of "Maria Martin, or, The Murder in the Red
    Barn, in three long Acts, with unrivalled Spectral Effects and
    Illusions," is about to begin. The Dramatis Personæ are on the
    platform outside; the venerable Mr. MARTIN is exhorting the
    crowd to step up and witness his domestic tragedy, while the
    injured MARIA, is taking the twopences at the door; WILLIAM
    CORDER is finishing a pipe, and two of the Angelic Visions
    are dancing, in blue velveteen and silver braid, to the
    appropriate air of "The Bogie Man."

INSIDE.

    The front benches are occupied by Rustic Youths, who beguile
    the tedium of waiting by smoking short clays, and trying to
    pull off one another's caps.

First Youth (examining the decorative Shakspearian panels on the proscenium.) They three old
wimmin be a-pokin' o' that old nipper, 'ooever he be.

    [The "old nipper" in question is, of course, MACBETH.

Second Youth. Luk up at that 'un tother side--it's a Gineral's gho-ast a-frightenin' th' undertaker
(A subject from "Hamlet") They've gi'en over dancin' outside--they'll be beginning soon. (The
company descend the steps, and pass behind the scenes.) We shall see proper 'ere, we shall.

