You will be glad to hear that my mother, and little sister and brother are coming north to
spend this summer with me. We shall all live together in a small cottage on one of the lakes
at Wrentham, while my dear teacher takes a much needed rest. She has not had a vacation for
twelve years, think of it, and all that time she has been the sunshine of my life. Now her
eyes are troubling her a great deal, and we all think she ought to be relieved, for a while,
of every care and responsibility. But we shall not be quite separated; we shall see each other
every day, I hope. And, when July comes, you can think of me as rowing my dear ones around
the lovely lake in the little boat you gave me, the happiest girl in the world!...

TO  MRS. LAURENCE HUTTON [Boston] May 28th [1899]. ...We have had a hard day. Mr. Keith was
here for three hours this afternoon, pouring a torrent of Latin and Greek into my poor bewildered
brain. I really believe he knows more Latin and Greek Grammar than Cicero or Homer ever dreamed
of! Cicero is splendid, but his orations are very difficult to translate. I feel ashamed sometimes,
when I make that eloquent man say what sounds absurd or insipid; but how is a school-girl to
interpret such genius? Why, I should have to be a Cicero to talk like a Cicero!...

Linnie Haguewood is a deaf-blind girl, one of the many whom Mr. William Wade has helped. She
is being educated by Miss Dora Donald who, at the beginning of her work with her pupil, was
supplied by Mr. Hitz, Superintendent of the Volta Bureau, with copies of all documents relating
to Miss Sullivan's work with Miss Keller.

TO MR. WILLIAM WADE Wrentham, Mass., June 5, 1899. ...Linnie Haguewood's letter, which you
sent me some weeks ago, interested me very much. It seemed to show spontaneity and great sweetness
of character. I was a good deal amused by what she said about history. I am sorry she does
not enjoy it; but I too feel sometimes how dark, and mysterious and even fearful the history
of old peoples, old religions and old forms of government really is.

Well, I must confess, I do not like the sign-language, and I do not think it would be of much
use to the deaf-blind. I find it very difficult to follow the rapid motions made by the deaf-mutes,
and besides, signs seem a great hindrance to them in acquiring the power of using language
easily and freely. Why, I find it hard to understand them sometimes when they spell on their
fingers. On the whole, if they cannot be taught articulation, the manual alphabet seems the
best and most convenient means of communication. At any rate, I am sure the deaf-blind cannot
learn to use signs with any degree of facility.

The other day, I met a deaf Norwegian gentleman, who knows Ragnhild Kaata and her teacher very
well, and we had a very interesting conversation about her. He said she was very industrious
and happy. She spins, and does a great deal of fancy work, and reads, and leads a pleasant,
useful life. Just think, she cannot use the manual alphabet! She reads the lips well, and if
she cannot understand a phrase, her friends write it in her hand, and in this way she converses
with strangers. I cannot make out anything written in my hand, so you see, Ragnhild has got
ahead of me in some things. I do hope I shall see her sometime...

