"On the contrary, at the first screams of Chapi and Morejon they threw a lasso over their heads,
and pulled at it by the ends. In a few moments they fell to the ground choked to death. They
were dragged on the earth, without pity, to the place where they were buried. All this bloody
scene was witnessed by Jull from a short distance. Providence had not willed that so much iniquity
should remain hidden forever. In the hurry the grave where these two innocent men were buried
was not dug deep enough, and part of the rope with which they were choked remained outside.
A neighbor, looking for a lost cow, saw the rope, took hold of it, and, on pulling, disinterred
the head of one of the victims. He was terror stricken, and immediately gave notice to the
judge, who, on ascertaining that the men had been killed by order of Colonel Jull, suspended
proceedings.

"The neighbors and all the civil and military authorities know everything that has been related
here, but such is the state of affairs on the island that General Weyler has no objection to
appointing this monster, Colonel Jull, Military Governor of Matanzas. Such deeds as those enumerated
are common. The people of the town of Matanzas, with Jull as Governor, and Arolas at the head
of a column, will suffer in consequence of their pernicious and bloody instincts.

"That the readers may know in part who General Arolas is, it may be well to relate what has
happened in the Mercedes estate, near Colon. It having come to his knowledge that a small body
of rebels was encamped on the sugar estate Mercedes, of Mr. Oarrillo, General Arolas went to
engage them, but the rebels, who were few in numbers, retreated. Much vexed at not being able
to discharge one shot at them, he made prisoners of three workmen who were out in the field
herding the animals of the estate and without any formality of trial shot them. When the bodies
were taken to the Central they were recognized, and to cover his responsibility somewhat, General
Arolas said that when he challenged them they ran off, and at the first discharge of musketry
they fell dead."

LIFE, LIBERTY AND PROPERTY SACRIFICED.

Life, liberty and property have all been sacrificed by these determined patriots for the sake
of the cause they love. Their towns have been burned, their homes pillaged, their wives and
children starved, and in many sections of the island nothing but ruin and waste meets the eye.
Even their sick and wounded are not safe from the oppressor's sword, and wherever the insurgents
have a hospital, they have a garrison to protect it. Each of the six provinces has an insurgent
hospital, with a staff of physicans and nurses, and a detachment of the army.

The largest of these lies in that part of Santa Clara called the Isthmus of Zapata. It is a
wild, swampy region, through which the natives alone can distinguish those precarious tracks,
where the slightest deviation means being engulfed in the treacherous morass.

A DETERMINED RESISTANCE.

A prominent Cuban, who may be said to speak for his entire race, makes this declaration:

"The population of the island is, in round numbers, 1,600,000, of which less than 200,000 are
Spaniards, some 500,000 are colored Cubans, and over 800,000 white Cubans. Of the Spaniards,
a small but not inconsiderable fraction, although not taking an active part in the defense
of our cause, sympathize with, and are supporting it in various ways. Of the Cubans, whether
colored or white, all are in sympathy with the revolution, with the exception of a few scattered
individuals who hold positions under the Spanish government or are engaged in enterprises which
cannot thrive without it. All of the Cubans who have had the means and the opportunity to join
the revolutionary army have done so, while those who have been compelled for one reason or
another to remain in the cities are co-operating to the best of their abilities. If the people
of the small section of the western part of the island, which yet remains quiet, were supplied
with arms and ammunition they would rise, to a man, within twenty-four hours.

"This revolution of the whole Cuban people against the government of Spain is what the Spanish
officials are pleased to describe as a disturbance caused by a few adventurers, robbers, bandits,
and assassins! But they have a purpose in so characterizing it, and it is no other than to
justify, in some way, the war of extermination which the Prime Minister of Spain himself has
declared will be waged by his government against the Cuban people. They are not yet satisfied
with the rivers of human blood with which in times past they inundated the fields of Italy,
of the Low Countries, of our continent of America, and only a few years ago, of Cuba itself.
The Spanish newspaper of Havana, 'El Pueblo,' urges the Spanish soldiers to give no quarter,
to spare no one, to kill all, all without exception, until they shall have torrents of Cuban
blood in which to bathe themselves. It is well. The Cubans accept the challenge, but they will
not imitate their tyrants and cover themselves with infamy by waging a savage war. The Cubans
respect the lives of their Spanish prisoners, they do not attack hospitals, and they cure and
assist with the same care and solicitude with which they cure and assist their own, the wounded
Spaniards who may fall into their hands. They have done so from the beginning of the war, and
they will not change their humane policy.

"The Spanish officials have also attempted to convince you that the Cuban war is a war of races.
Of what races? Of the black against the white? It is not true, and the facts plainly show that
there is nothing of the kind. Nor is the war waged by Cubans against the Spaniards as such.
No. The war is waged against the government of Spain, and only against the government of Spain
and the officials and a few monopolists, who, under it, live and thrive upon the substance
of the Cubans. We have no ill feeling against the thousands of Spaniards who industriously
and honestly make their living in Cuba.

"But with the Spanish government we will make no peace, and we will make no compromise. Under
its rule there will be nothing for our people but oppression and misery. For years and years
the Cuban people have patiently suffered, and in the interests of the colony, as well as in
the interests of the metropolis, have earnestly prayed for reforms. Spain has not only turned
a deaf ear to the prayers, but instead of reforming the most glaring abuses, has allowed them
to increase and flourish, until such a point has been reached that the continuation of Spanish
rule means for the Cuban people utter destruction."

CHAPTER XXV.

FITZHUGH LEE TO THE FRONT.

Importance of the American Consulate at Havana in a Critical Time--General Fitzhugh Lee the
Man for the Place--Sketch of the Life of Lee--A Nation's Confidence in Its Popular Hero--How
He Left Havana and How He Promised to Return Wife and Family of General Lee--His Place During
the Early Period of the War.

Never was there a more genuine and typical American gentleman in a difficult position where
a genuine and typical American gentleman was needed, than Fitzhugh Lee, the American consul-
general at Havana during the most critical time prior to the outbreak of our war with Spain.
The Cuban consul generalship is an office of much greater importance than others of the same
name in other countries where diplomatic representatives are maintained. It includes the obligations
of diplomacy as well as those of commerce, and Lee was the man for both.

His predecessor in the office, Ramon Williams, had held the position for many years and it
was recognized by him as well as by the authorities at Washington that a change should be made
because of the unusual demands upon the office. His long and faithful service in the tropical
country had undermined his health so that his energies were lessened thereby, at a time when
they were most needed for the safety of American interests.

It was in the spring of 1896 that President Cleveland, believing that a man of unusual ability
should represent the United States at Havana, chose Fitzhugh Lee for the post. The selection
was approved from the first by everyone who knew him, and not many months had passed until
General Lee became an idol and a hero of the whole American people.

His Havana record has been no surprise to those who knew of his exploits during the war, or
of his family. Blood will tell, and it has told in the case of General Lee. His family has
always been famous in American history. How could the grandson of "Lighthorse Harry, the Revolutionary
hero," or the nephew of Robert E. Lee, be anything else but courageous and possessed of tact
and common sense?

The son of a naval officer, he preferred the army as a career. Graduating from West Point,
he fought on the frontier for six years before the opening of the Rebellion, and was engaged
in several desperate encounters with the Comanche Indians in Texas. On one of these occasions
he was pierced through the lungs by an arrow, but he lived to tell the story. On another occasion
he grappled with a big Indian in a hand-to-hand encounter, threw his antagonist on the ground
and killed him.

Though only twenty-seven years of age, Lee was an instructor in cavalry tactics at West Point
when the war broke out. He "followed his State" into the secession movement. His war record
is a matter of pride to every Virginian. The dashing young officer was an ideal trooper, fearing
nothing and loved by his men. He was modest, too. After some brilliant movement of personal
valor his brigade formed in a body and determined to serenade him at his headquarters, expecting,
of course, a speech. But Lee got an inkling of the matter, and when he saw them coming he slipped
out of his tent and hid in the bushes. After the disappointed troopers had called for him in
vain and dispersed he peeped furtively from his hiding place, and in a subdued tone asked,
"Have they gone?"

COMPOSURE IN BATTLE.

General Lee possessed remarkable composure in battle. He never got the least rattled under
the most trying conditions, except at Saylor's Creek, on the retreat from Petersburg; he never
betrayed anxiety, and, though often under a rattling fire, no one ever saw him dodge. This
cannot be said of many of the bravest men. Sometimes a bullet will unexpectedly whizz close
to one's head, and the impulse to dodge is almost irresistible, though it never did anybody
any good.

One of the officers with him said once that the only time he had been moved by the enemy's
fire was at the battle of Winchester. He and General Early met under an apple tree near the
summit of a hill and in a very exposed place. There was no firing at the time, but while the
two generals, still on their horses, were intently examining a map, one shot was fired. It
fell short and they paid no attention to it. But lo! another came, struck the apple tree just
above their heads, and as the apples rained down on them they concluded the map could be better
examined in a less exposed position--a conclusion in which all others agreed with remarkable
unanimity. And nobody stopped to get any apples.

General Lee is a superb horseman. He rode a splendid mare named Nellie. She had the form, the
strength, the nimbleness of limb, the tapering neck, the alert poise of the head, the bright
and intelligent eyes that made her a model worthy to bear any master. She was all grace and
beauty. When the confederate columns were broken in the same battle and the rout began, for
it was little less, General Lee was at a very exposed point. The fire of thirty pieces of artillery
was directed against it. The air was full of exploding shells; horses were plunging about on
three legs, neighing piteously for a place of refuge; others were disemboweled by the furious
shot; others were loose, running to and fro, bewildered by the terrible havoc, while the mutilated
bodies of men could be seen on every hand; numbers who were crippled were hobbling away, and
all seemed doomed to death. It was here that the beautiful Nellie was gored by one fragment
of shell and her master's leg torn by another.

He was noted for his geniality and jollity. He loved humor and fun, and got all there was to
be had in those trying times. But his cheerfulness failed at Appomattox. There he cried.

After the war had ended, General Lee settled in Stafford County as a farmer and miller. His
life was the quiet and uneventful one of a country gentleman, caring for nothing but his wife,
whom he married in 1871, and his children. About 1875 he began to take an active part in politics,
and he attended the national convention of 1876 as a delegate. In 1885 he was elected governor
of Virginia. It was then that he again became conspicuous. General Lee headed the southern
division of the inauguration parade, and his handsome presence and splendid horsemanship forced
the men on the sidewalks to cheer him with more vim than they did anyone else. A similar demonstration
occurred when, four years later, General Lee led the Virginia troops in the Washington centennial
parade in New York to the stirring tune of "Dixie." On both of these occasions he sat in the
identical saddle which his uncle, General Robert E. Lee, had used on his familiar gray war
horse, Traveler. Who could occupy it more worthily? Any one who has seen "Fitz" Lee mounted
like a centaur on a Virginia thoroughbred is certain to have in memory ever afterward an ideal
figure of a knightly "man on horseback." Afoot he is not so imposing, being only of medium
stature, and, of late years, quite portly. He has a fine head and face, with frank steel blue
eyes and a ruddy complexion, set off by his now almost white hair, mustache and imperial. His
bearing is alert and military. Altogether, he does not look, and probably does not feel, his
sixty-two years.

During Mr. Cleveland's second term he was made collector of internal revenue at Lynchburg, Va.

THE MAN FOR THE PLACE AT HAVANA.

Once settled in his position in Havana, General Lee's fame began to multiply. The American
opinion of him was voiced immediately after the destruction of the Maine, by L. P. Sigsbee,
the brother of the commander of that ill-fated ship, when he said: "There's a man down there
looking after the interests of this country who cannot be blinded. He has more sand than anybody
I know of, and if there's anything treacherous in this explosion we'll know of it without delay.
The man I mean is General Fitzhugh Lee."

The same thought occurred to every American who had watched his career. From first to last
everybody had confidence in his Americanism, his bravery and his cool-headedness. He held his
office through merit alone, no politician gaining any success in the effort to win from him
that position of distinction and profit, after the change of administration when President
McKinley assumed the executive chair. The nation recognized that he was first an American and
an interference with him on partisan grounds would not have been tolerated.

Jealous of American honor, and firm in insisting upon the rights of his countrymen, he has
always kept cool. Courteous and polite as well as courageous, he has never blustered and he
has won the respect and admiration of the Spaniards as well as their fear.

Throughout his service in Cuba, General Lee's figure was a familiar one in Havana, and even
by those most antagonistic to him because of their official position, he was heartily admired.
No matter what the threat of violence from hot-headed Spaniards, when the relations were most
strained between the two countries, General Lee never admitted the slightest danger to himself
and refused to accept any guard except that which he himself was able to maintain for himself.
Upon the streets and in the hotels and cafes he was exempt from disrespect by the sheer force
of his splendid personality. And never until the last day of his stay in Havana when all diplomatic
relations were severed, did the Spanish authorities in that city omit any of the forms of courtesy.

GENERAL LEE PROMISES TO RETURN.

On that day, when in company with the British Consul General he went to bid farewell to Captain
General Blanco, the latter refused to see him upon the excuse that he was too busy. When the
homeward voyage was actually begun, in the little boat that carried to the steamer the Consul
General and the last newspaper correspondents who remained in Havana till the end, the malice
of the Spanish onlookers at the docks could restrain itself no longer. With imprecations and
scornful and insulting epithets they raised their voices against him. With proper dignity General
Lee ignored it all, except to say in one definite last message, that he would be back again
before long with troops to stand by him.

In his office in the consulate at Havana, General Lee gained the admiration and the confidence
of every American who had occasion to meet him. Brave as an American should be, and equally
gentle and tender-hearted, he was the man for the place. The Spanish outrages upon American
citizens roused in him but two sentiments. One was sympathy and grief for those who suffered.
The other was indignation and enmity against those who were guilty. To the extent of all his
power he guarded and aided those for whom that first sentiment was roused. He left Cuba with
an accumulation of detestation for Spanish outrages in that unhappy island against Americans
and Cubans, that would stimulate to deeds of valor through whatever warfare might follow in
which he should be a leader. With a great heart, a brilliant mind and a magnificent physique,
General Lee combined all the qualities which made him worthy of the American pride which was
centered upon him.

CHAPTER XXVL

AMERICANS IN SPANISH DUNGEONS.

Spanish Hatred of the American Nation--Instances of Injustice-- The Case of Dr. Ruiz--His Death
in a Dungeon--Julio Sanguilly-- Action of the United States Senate in His Behalf--A Correspondent
in Morro Castle--Walter Dygert's Experiences--General Lee Shows His Mettle in the Case of Charles
Scott.

Not content with their cruel and inhuman treatment of Cuban patriots, the Spanish officials
have seemed to take special satisfaction in imprisoning and even murdering American citizens
on the slightest pretext. The object of their most bitter hatred is the insurgent, but if they
are to be judged by their deeds, it would appear that the American occupies a close second
place in their black-list.

Time and again our government has been compelled to interfere to save the lives of its citizens,
and unfortunately this interference has on several occasions been too late. It is not possible
to present a list of all the men and women of American birth who have lost life, liberty and
property by Spanish authority, from the massacre of the crew of the Virginius to the wrecking
of the Maine, but a few instances may be mentioned, which will prove conclusively that the
retribution, of which the glorious victory in Manila bay was but the commencement, came none
too soon.

THE CASE OF DR. RUIZ.

One of the most flagrant of these outrages was the imprisonment of Dr. Ricardo Ruiz, a Cuban
by birth, but a naturalized citizen of the United States. He was a dentist by profession, having
studied in a Pennsylvania dental college, and after receiving his diploma, he returned to his
native country to practice his profession.

He was accused of being in sympathy with the revolutionists, arrested and kept in prison for
two years, when he died, probably from violence. In the following letter, written from Havana,
regarding the case, will be seen the reasons for this supposition:

"Ruiz died, according to the surgeons, from congestion of the brain, caused by a blow or blows.
When General Lee and Mr. Calhoun visited the jail in Guanabacoa, they were shown the cell in
which the Spanish say that Ruiz died. The guard explained to General Lee and Mr. Calhoun that
he heard thumping on the inside of the door, and when he opened it and went in, Ruiz was running
at the heavy door and butting it with his head. Ruiz had only one wound on the top of his head.
Had he butted this door, as the jailer says, his scalp must necessarily have been lacerated
in several places."

Julio Sanguilly is another American citizen who was tried for treason, and sentenced to life
imprisonment. This case attracted a great deal of attention in the United States, and a resolution
was passed by the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, making a demand on the Spanish
government for his release. During the debate on this resolution, Senator Daniel, of Virginia,
said:

"Two years ago yesterday, Julio Sanguilly, an American citizen, was thrown into prison. Two
years have gone by and this government has done practically nothing for this citizen. Great
Britain would have released him as soon as one of her battleships could reach Havana. He has
been brutally treated and condemned on unsworn testimony before military tribunals. This country
and all civilization have been disgraced by the treatment meted out to this unfortunate man.
Every citizen of this country would have patriotically applauded the President if he had sent
a fleet of American battleships and compelled the release, of this American citizen, whose
country has been insulted by the treatment accorded to him and to our representative in Cuba."

The Prime Minister at Madrid, realizing that trouble of a serious nature was likely to come
from this affair, cabled Weyler to discharge the prisoner from custody, and banish him from
the island.

Sanguilly immediately came to the United States, where he was warmly received by his friends,
and he has since been actively engaged in work for Cuba's freedom.

Charles Scott, an employe of the American Gas Company, was arrested at Regla, charged with
having Cuban postage stamps in his possession. He was in solitary confinement, in a damp, empty
cell, five feet by eleven, for fourteen days. Once during his imprisonment he was left for
two days without even a drop of water. General Lee, then United States Consul at Havana, cabled
to Washington, asking that arrangements be made to send war vessels to Havana, in case of necessity,
and declaring that unless his requests were complied with, he would leave the island. In this
affair, as in many others, General Lee proved that he was the right man in the right place,
for it was due to his efforts in Scott's behalf that he was finally given his liberty.

Mr. Charles Michaelson, a newspaper correspondent, and his interpreter, were imprisoned, in
Morro Castle as suspects. It required fine detective work to discover this fact, for they were
missing for some time before it was definitely known that they were in the clutches of Weyler,
but the "Butcher" finally admitted it, and after a short delay was persuaded by the United
States Consul to release them. Mr. Michaelson's treatment was almost brutal in its nature.

