R.--I once was witness to an instance of apathy on the part of a father--your talking of duelling
reminds me of it--which is perhaps without a parallel. Walking one day beyond the Barrière
de Clichy, I saw several persons assembled at a little distance from the roadside. Two gentlemen
had just taken their ground--you know that these affairs are not always conducted with the
same privacy on the Continent as in England--and received their pistols from the hands of their
seconds. They fired at the same instant. One of the combatants, a line young man of about five-and-twenty,
received his adversary's shot in his forehead: it pierced his brain. He sprang nearly his own
height from the ground, and fell dead. He was immediately carried home to his father's house,
which was at no great distance from the spot, and I went along with the crowd. He was an only
son, mind you, but (so it was said) a mauvais sujet of the last degree--indeed the very quarrel
which led to the duel had occurred in a gaming-house of which he was a regular frequenter.
The body, which I followed into the courtyard of his father's house, was placed on the stones.
The father was sent for;--a scene was naturally to be expected;--and a scene to be remembered
there was. The old gentleman came out, looked calmly upon the dead body of his son, deliberately
took a pinch of snuff, tapped down the lid of the box, and, saying nothing in the world more
than--Enfin!--walked in again.

S.--Père Sensible!

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITICAL CHANGES.

Presumptuous was the wish so patriotically conceived, and so repeatedly extolled, of that pious
churchman, who exclaimed, with reference to the constitution of his native country, now no
more existing as an independent state, "Esto perpetua!" The ancients, indeed, to secure what
might be humanely termed a perpetuity to their laws and edicts, had them graven on brass. But
what is the perpetuity even of brass itself, when opposed to the irresistible advance of Time?
Even in the very infancy of the world, this question might have been answered, as it was, some
few thousand years after its creation, by Old Simonides:

        "Who so bold
         To uphold
  What the Lindian sage[16] has told?
         Who will dare
         To compare
  Works of man, that fleeting are,
  With the smooth perennial flow
  Of swift rivers, or the glow
  Of the eternal sun, or light
  Of the golden orb of night?

         Spring renews
         The floweret's hues
  With his sweet refreshing dews;
         Ocean wide
         Bids his tide
  With returning current glide;
  The sculptured tomb is but a toy
  Man may fashion, man destroy--
  Eternity in stone or brass?
  Go, go! who said it was an ass."

Fragm. 10. BRUNCK,  Analect, tom. i. p. 122.

    [16] Cleobulus.

(From a striking paper entitled "Correction, Melioration, Reformation, Revolution," in Blackwood's
Magazine.)

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD PARLIAMENTS.

There is nothing in our history more uncertain than their nature and the extent of their power.
In the simple days of good King Alfred, parliaments were not summoned for "the dispatch of
business"--that is, to discuss regulations touching the taxes and the public debt--the Bank
affairs--the East India affairs--the West India affairs, and a thousand other concerns of national
moment, then lying unborn in the womb of time.

       *       *       *       *       *

LENDING BOOKS.

To lend a byeuck is to lose it--and borrowin's but a hypocritical pretence for stealin', and
shou'd be punished wi' death.--Ettrick Shepherd.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO ROAST AN ACTOR.

If he is tall, you may discover that his person is ungraceful, and that he wants the dapper-size
of Garrick. If short, he is much under the proper size, and can never play the character of
a hero, which is always fixed at five feet ten inches. If his features are small, you can find
out that they want expression; if large, his face is vulgar, and his nose too much beyond the
dramatic size. If his face be unexceptionable, you may with some pains discover a something
in his eye. If his eyes are piercing and intelligent, perhaps his features are stiff and unmanageable.
His shoulders may be broad; and, if not, it is a thousand to one but he stoops; and if he stoops,
and does not turn out his toes, it is impossible he can understand his author. If he is a scholar
and a critic, and repeats a line as you never heard it repeated before, he must be a word-catcher.
If his manner is graceful, he has studied dancing too much; but if his manner is not graceful,
be sure to tell him he must go to the dancing-school. If you can discover no fault, you must
prove how much better Garrick, Powel, Holland, or Barry, performed the character; and as nine-tenths
of your readers cannot remember those performers, you may easily persuade them that the object
of your censure is a blockhead. If he has the art of rapid elocution, tell him he speaks too
fast; and if he speaks slowly, and with discrimination, say that he only waits to catch applause.
If his action is graceful, tell him he makes too much use of his arms and hands; and if his
action is moderate, persuade the public that his arms are tied behind him. By these hints you
will have done him completely on one side, and, if you change your opinion, and praise him,
he will be done on the other.--Old Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALE OF TEMPE.

Dr. Clarke says, "The boasted Vale of Tempe, is a defile; it is something like Matlock, but
wilder; more savage than Salvator Rosa, and with nothing of Claude. I cannot tell why the ancients
made such a fuss about it; perhaps because half of them never saw it, and took its character
from hearsay; the other half, like mankind every where, stupidly admiring what is said to be
admirable. It is like a crack in a great wall, at the bottom of which is a river, sometimes
inundated, sometimes dry; the passage narrow, the sides craggy, bare, lofty and perpendicular;
its whole length not above a mile."

       *       *       *       *       *

THEATRES.

We find the following sensible observations in a recent work:--

"In the reigns of Elizabeth and James, the golden age of the English drama, London was not
a tenth part of its present sire, and it contained seventeen theatres. At present (1808) there
are but two; more would succeed, and indeed more are wanted; but these have obtained exclusive
privileges. Old people say the acting was better in their younger days, because there were
more schools for actors; and the theatres being smaller, the natural voice could be heard,
and the natural expression of the features seen, and therefore rant and distortion were unnecessary.
They, however, who remember no other generation of actors than the present, will not be persuaded
that there has ever been one more perfect. Be this as it may, all are agreed that the drama
itself has woefully degenerated, though it is the only species of literary labour which is
well paid; they are agreed also as to the cause of this degeneracy, attributing it to the prodigious
size of the theatres; the finer tones of passion cannot be discriminated, nor the finer movements
of the countenance perceived from the front, hardly from the middle of the house. Authors,
therefore, substitute what is here called broad farce for genuine comedy; their jests are made
intelligible by grimace, or by that sort of mechanical wit which can be seen; comedy is made
up of trick, and tragedy of processions, pageants, battles, and explosions."

