"Our reg'lar preacher wuz a colored man named Morrison, but Mr. Cobb preached to us lots of
times. He wuz a white gemman, an' he say he could a sot all night an' lissen long as us sung
dem old songs. Some of 'em I done clar forgot, but de one I lak bes' goes sorter lak dis:

  'I want to be an angel
   An' wid de angels stan'
   A crown upon my forehead
   And a harp widin my han'.'

"Another tune wuz 'Roll, Jordan Roll.' Little chillun wuz larnt to sing, 'How Sweetly do de
Time Fly, When I Please my Mother,' an' us chillun sho' would do our best a singin' dat little
old song, so Preacher Cobb would praise us.

"When I jined de church dere wuz 35 of us baptized de same day in de crick back of de church.
While Preacher Brown wuz a baptizin' us, a big crowd wuz standin' on de bank a shoutin' an'
singin', 'Dis is de healin' Water,' an', 'Makin' for de Promise Lan! Some of 'em wuz a prayin'
too. Atter de baptizin' wuz done dey had a big dinner on de groun's for de new members, but
us didn't see no jugs dat day. Jus' had plenty of good somethin' t'eat.

"When us warn't in school, me an' my brudder wukked in de fiel' wid pa. In cotton plantin'
time, pa fixed up de rows an' us drap de seeds in 'em. Nex' day us would rake dirt over 'em
wid wooden rakes. Pa made de rakes hisse'f. Dey had short wooden teef jus' right for to kivver
de seed. Folkses buys what dey uses now an' don't take up no time makin' nothin' lak dat.

"In dem days 'roun' de house an' in de fiel' boys jus' wo' one piece of clo'es. It wuz jus'
a long shirt. Dey didn't know nothin' else den, but I sho' would lak to see you try to make
boys go 'roun' lookin' lak dat now.

"Dey hired me out to Mr. Jack Weir's fambly when I wuz 'bout fo'teen years old to do washin',
ironin', an' cleanin' up de house, an' I wukked for 'em 'til I married. Dey lemme eat all I
wanted dere at de house an' paid me in old clo'es, middlin' meat, sirup, 'tatoes, an' wheat
flour, but I never did git no money for pay. Not nary a cent.

"Us wukked mighty hard, but us had good times too. De bigges' fun us had wuz at candy pullin's.
Ma cooked de candy in de wash pot out in de yard. Fust she poured in some home-made sirup,
an' put in a heap of brown sugar from de old sirup barrel an' den she biled it down to whar
if you drapped a little of it in cold water it got hard quick. It wuz ready den to be poured
out in greasy plates an' pans. Us greased our han's wid lard to keep de candy from stickin'
to 'em, an' soon as it got cool enough de couples would start pullin' candy an' singin'. Dat's
mighty happy music, when you is singin' an' pullin' candy wid yo' bes' feller. When de candy
got too stiff an' hard to pull no mo', us started eatin', an' it sho' would evermo' git away
from dar in a hurry. You ain't nebber seed no dancin', what is dancin', lessen you has watched
a crowd dance atter dey et de candy what dey done been pullin'.

"Quiltin's wuz a heap of fun. Sometimes two or three famblies had a quiltin' together. Folkses
would quilt some an' den dey passed 'roun' de toddy. Some would be cookin' while de others
wuz a quiltin' an' den when supper wuz ready dey all stopped to eat. Dem colla'd greens wid
cornpone an' plenty or gingercakes an' fruit puffs an' big ole pots of coffee wuz mighty fine
eatin's to us den.

"An' dere warn't nothin' lackin' when us had cornshuckin's. A gen'ral of de cornshuckin' wuz
appointed to lead off in de fun. He sot up on top of de big pile of corn an' hysted de song.
He would git 'em started off singin' somethin' lak, 'Sallie is a Good Gal,' an' evvybody kept
time shuckin' an' a singin'. De gen'ral kept singin' faster an' faster, an' shucks wuz jus'
flyin'. When pa started passin' de jug 'roun' dem Niggers sho' nuff begun to sing loud an'
fas' an' you wuz 'bliged for to 'low Sallie mus' be a Good Gal, de way de shucks wuz comin'
off of dat corn so fas'. Dey kep' it up 'til de corn wuz all shucked, an' ma hollered, 'Supper
ready!' Den dey made tracks for de kitchen, an' dey didn't stop eatin' an' drinkin' dat hot
coffee long as dey could swallow. Ain't nobody fed 'em no better backbones, an' spareribs,
turnip greens, 'tato pies, an' sich lak dan my ma set out for 'em. Old time ways lak dat is
done gone for good now. Folkses ain't lak dey used to be. Dey's all done got greedy an' don't
keer 'bout doin' nothin' for nobody else no more.

"Ma combed our hair wid a Jim Crow comb, or cyard, as some folkses called 'em. If our hair
wuz bad nappy she put some cotton in de comb to keep it from pullin' so bad, 'cause it wuz
awful hard to comb.

"Evvybody tried to raise plenty of gourds, 'cause dey wuz so handy to use for dippers den.
Water wuz toted from de spring an' kept in piggins. Don't spec' you ebber did see a piggin.
Dats a wooden bucket wid wire hoops 'roun' it to keep it from leakin'. De wash place wuz nex'
to de spring. Pa fixed us up a big old stump whar us had to battle de clo'es wid a battlin'
stick. It tuk a sight of battlin' to git de dirt out sometimes.

"If you turned a chunk over in de fire, bad luck wuz sho' to come to you. If a dog howled a
certain way at night, or if a scritch owl come in de night, death wuz on de way to you, an'
you always had to be keerful so maybe bad spirits would leave you alone.

"Pa built us a new kitchen, jus' lak what de white folkses had dem days. It sot out in de back
yard, a little piece of a way from our house. He made it out of logs an' put a big old chimbly
wid a big fireplace at one end. Benches wuz built 'roun' de sides for seats. Dere warn't no
floor in it, but jus' dirt floor. Dat wuz one gran' kitchen an' us wuz mighty proud of it.
[HW: p.4]

"My w'ite folkses begged me not to leave 'em, when I told 'em I wuz gwine to marry Joe Telfair.
I'd done been wukkin' for 'em nigh on to six years, an' wuz mos' twenty years old. Dey gimme
my weddin' clo'es, an' when I seed dem clo'es I wuz one proud Nigger, 'cause dey wuz jus' lak
I wanted. De nightgown wuz made out of white bleachin' an' had lots of tucks an' ruffles an'
it even had puff sleeves. Sho' 'nough it did! De petticoat had ruffles an' puffs plum up to
de wais' ban'. Dere wuz a cosset kiver dat wuz cut to fit an' all fancy wid tucks an' trimmin',
an' de drawers, dey sho' wuz pretty, jus' full of ruffles an' tucks 'roun' de legs. My dress
wuz a cream buntin', lak what dey calls serge dese days. It had a pretty lace front what my
ma bought from one of de Moss ladies. When I got all dressed up I wuz one mo' gran' lookin' bride.

"Us got married in de new kitchen an' it wuz plum full, 'cause ma had done axed 76 folkses
to de weddin'. Some of 'em wuz Joe's folkses, an' us had eight waiters: four gals, an' four
boys. De same Preacher Brown what baptized me, married us an' den us had a big supper. My Missus,
Lula Weir, had done baked a great big pretty cake for me an' it tasted jus' as good as it looked.
Atter us et all us could, one of de waiters called de sets for us to dance de res' of de night.
An' sich dancin' as us did have! Folkses don't know how to dance dat good no mo'. Dat wuz sho'
nuff happy dancin'. Yes Ma'am, I ain't nebber gonna forgit what a gran' weddin' us had.

"Next day us moved right here an' I done been here ever since. Dis place b'longed to Joe's
gran'ma, an' she willed it to him. Us had 15 chillun, but ain't but five of 'em livin' now,
an' Joe he's been daid for years. Us always made a good livin' on de farm, an' still raises
mos' of what us needs, but I done got so po'ly I can't wuk no more.

"I'se still tryin' to live right an' walk de narrow way, so as I kin go to Heb'en when I dies.
I'se gwine to pray for you an' ax de Lawd to bless you, for you has been so good an' patient
wid me, an' I'se sho' thankful my son sont you to see me. You done helped me to feel lots better.
Good-bye, an' God bless you, an' please Ma'am, come back to see me again." The house stood
only a few feet from a spur of railroad track but the small yard was enclosed by a luxurious
green hedge. Roses predominated among the many varieties of flowers in evidence on the otherwise
drab premises.

A dilapidated porch across the front of the residence had no roof and the floorboards were
so badly rotted that it did not seem quite safe to walk from the steps to the front door where
Cordelia stood waiting. "Come right in, Missy," she invited, "but be keerful not to fall through
dat old porch floor." The tall, thin Negress was clad in a faded but scrupulously clean blue
dress, a white apron, and a snowy headcloth crowned by a shabby black hat. Black brogans completed
her costume. Cordelia led the way to the rear of a narrow hall. "Us will be cooler back here,"
she explained. Sunlight poured through gaping holes in the roof, and the coarse brown wrapping
paper pasted on the walls was splattered and streaked by rain. The open door of Cordelia's
bedroom revealed a wooden bed, a marble-topped bureau, and a washstand of the Victorian period.
A rocker, two straight chairs, a small table, and a trunk completed the furnishings of the
room and left but little space for its occupant to move about.

"I'se jus' a mite tired," Cordelia stated, "'cause I jus' got back from de courthouse whar
dem welfare 'omans done gimme a sack o' flour and some other bundles what I ain't opened up
yit, but I knows dey's got somepin in 'em to holp me, 'cause dem folks is sho' been mighty
good to me since my rheumatiz is been so bad I couldn't wuk enough to make a livin'. De doctor,
he say I got de blood presser. I don't rightly know jus' what dat is, but it looks lak somepin's
a-pressin' right down in my haid 'til I feels right foolish, so I reckon he's right 'bout it
a-bein de blood presser. When I gits down on my knees it takes a long time for me to git straight
up on my feet again. De Lord, He's done been wid me all dese years, and old Cordelia's goin'
to keep right on kneelin' 'fore Him and praisin' Him often 'til He 'cides de time has come
for her to go home to Heben.

"I was borned on Marse Andrew Jackson's plantation down in 'Conee (Oconee) County, twixt here
and High Shoals. Marse Andy, he owned my Mammy, and she was named Em'ly Jackson. Bob Lowe was
my Daddy, and he b'longed to Marse Ike Lowe. The Lowe plantation was nigh whar Marse Andy's
was, down der in 'Conee County. 'Cause neither one of deir marsters wouldn't sell one of 'em
to de other marster, Mammy had to stay on de Jackson plantation and Daddy was kept right on
wukin' on de Lowe place atter dey had done got married. Marse Bob, he give Daddy a ticket what
let him go to see Mammy evvy Wednesday and Sadday night, and dem patterollers couldn't bother
him long as he kept dat ticket. When dey did find a slave off his marster's plantation widout
no ticket, it was jus' too bad, for dat meant a beatin' what most kilt him. Mammy said dey
didn't never git my Daddy, 'cause he allus had his ticket to show.

"I don't ricollect much 'bout days 'fore de big war ended 'cause I was so little den, but many's
de time I heared Mammy and Daddy and de other old folks tell 'bout dem times. Us chillun had
de bestes' time of anybody dem days, 'cause dey didn't 'low us to do nothin' but jus' eat all
us could and play de rest of de time. I don't know how it was on other places, but dat was
de way us was raised on our old marster's plantation.

"De cracks of de log cabins whar de slaves lived was chinked wid red mud to keep out de cold
and rain. Dere warn't no glass in de windows, dey jus' had plank shutters what dey fastened
shut at night. Thin slide blocks kivvered de peepholes in de rough plank doors. Dey had to
have dem peepholes so as dey could see who was at de door 'fore dey opened up. Dem old stack
chimblies what was made out of sticks and red clay, was all time gittin' on fire. Dem old home-made
beds had high posties and us called 'em 'teesters.' To take de place of springs, what hadn't
never been seen 'round dar in dem days, dey wove heavy cords lengthways and crostways. Over
dem cords dey laid a flat mat wove out of white oak splints and on dat dey put de homespun
bed ticks stuffed wid wheat straw. Dey could have right good pillows if dey was a mind to pick
de scrap cotton and fix it up, but dere warn't many of 'em keered dat much 'bout no pillows.

"Slaves didn't do no cookin' on our place 'cause Marster fed evvybody up at de big house. Missy,
I ain't never gwine to forgit dat big old fireplace up dar. Dey piled whole sticks of cord
wood on it at one time, wid little sticks crossways under 'em and, let me tell you, dat was
a fire what would cook anything and evvything. It sho' was a sight de way us chillun used to
make 'way wid dem ash-roasted 'taters and dat good, fresh butter. Us chillun had to eat supper
early 'cause all chillun had to be in bed 'fore dark. It warn't lak dese days. Why Missy, chilluns
now stays up 'most all night runnin' 'round dese parts.

"Marster was sho' good 'bout seein' dat his Niggers had plenty to eat and wear. For supper
us et our bread and milk wid wooden spoons out of wooden bowls, but for dinner dey give us
veg'ables, corn pone, and 'taters. Marster raised all de sorts of veg'ables what dey knowed
anything 'bout in dem days, and he had big old fields of wheat, rye, oats, and corn, 'cause
he 'lowed dat stock had to eat same as folkses. Dere was lots of chickens, turkeys, cows, hogs,
sheep, and some goats on dat plantation so as dere would allus be plenty of meat for evvybody.

"Our Marster evermore did raise de cotton--lots of it to sell, and plenty for clothes for all
de folkses, white and black, what lived on his place. All de cloth was home-made 'cept de calico
for de best Sunday dresses. Chillun had to spin de thread and deir mammies wove de cloth. 'Fore
de end of de war, whilst I was still so little I had to stand on a box to reach de spinnin'
wheel good, I could spin six reels a day.

"Chillun was happy when hog-killin' time come. Us warn't 'lowed to help none, 'cept to fetch
in de wood to keep de pot bilin' whar de lard was cookin'. Our Mist'ess allus had de lard rendered
in de bigges' washpot, what dey sot on rocks in de fireplace. Us didn't mind gittin' de wood
for dat, 'cause when dem cracklin's got done, dey let us have all us could eat and, jus' let
me tell you, Missy, you ain't never had nothin' good 'less you has et a warm skin cracklin'
wid a little salt. One time when dey was renderin' lard, all us chillun was crowdin' 'round
close as us could git to see which one could git a cracklin' fust. Mist'ess told us to stand
back 'fore somebody got burnt; den Mammy said she was gwine to take de hides off our backs
'bout gittin' so close to dat fire, and 'bout dat time somebody 'hind me gimme a quick push;
and in de fire I went. Marster grabbed me 'most time I hit dem red coals, but one hand and
arm was burnt so bad I had to wear it in a sling for a long time. Den Marster laid down de
law and told us what he would do if he cotch us chillun hangin' 'round de fire whar dey was
cookin' lard again.

"Folkses said our Marster must have a powerful sweet tooth on account of he kept so many bee
hives. When bees swarmed folkses rung bells and beat on tin pans to git 'em settled. Veils
was tied over deir haids to keep de bees from gittin' to deir faces when dey went to rob de
hives. Chillun warn't never 'lowed to be nowhar nigh durin' dat job. One day I sneaked out
and got up close to see how dey done it, and dem bees got all over me. Dey stung me so bad
I couldn't see for days and days. Marster, he jus' fussed and said dat gal, Cordelia, she was
allus whar she didn't b'long. Missy, I ain't never wanted to fool wid no more bees, and I don't
even lak honey no more.

"Slaves all went to church wid deir white folkses 'cause dere warn't no Nigger churches dem
days. All de preachin' was done by white preachers. Churches warn't nigh and convenient dem
days lak dey is now and dey was such a fur piece from de plantations dat most of de folkses
stayed all day, and dem meetin' days was big days den. De cooks was told to fix de bestes'
dinners dey could git up, and chillun was made to know dey had better mind what dey was 'bout
when dey was in de meetin' house or it was gwine to be made mighty hot for 'em when dey got
back home. Dat was one thing our Marster didn't 'low no foolin' 'bout. His Niggers had to be-have
deyselfs at de meetin' house. 'Long 'bout August when craps was laid by, dey had brush arbor
meetin's. White folks brought deir slaves and all of 'em listened to a white preacher from
Watkinsville named Mr. Calvin Johnson. Dere was lots of prayin' and shoutin' at dem old brush
arbor 'vival meetin's.

"Dey had campmeetin's too. De old Freeman place was whar dey had some of dem fust campmeetin's,
and Hillsboro, Mars Hill, and Bethabara was some of de other places whar Marster tuk us to
campmeetin's. Missy, you jus' don't know nothin' 'bout 'citement if you ain't never been to
one of dem old-time campmeetin's. When folkses would git 'ligion dey would holler and shout
a-testifyin' for de Lord. Atter de meetin' dey dammed up de crick and let it git deep enough
for de baptizin'. Dey dipped de white folkses fust, and den de Niggers. You could hear 'em
singin' a mile away dem old songs lak: On Jordan's Stormy Banks I Stand,--Roll, Jordan Roll,--All
God's Chilluns is a-goin' Home, and--Whar de Livin' Waters Flow. I jus' can't 'member half
of dem good old songs 'cause my mem'ry ain't good as it used to be." Here Cordelia paused.
She seemed oblivious to all around her for several minutes, and then she suddenly smiled. "Lordy,
Missy," she began, "if I could jus' call back dem days wid our good old Marster to look atter
us and see dat us had what us needed to eat and wear and a good comf'table cabin to live in,
wouldn't dis be a happy old 'oman? Lots of de other old folks would lak it too, 'cause our
white folkses day sho' did take good keer of deir slaves.

"Did you ever hear of dem logrollin's? On our place dey spent 'bout two whole days cookin'
and gittin' ready. Marster axed evvybody from fur and nigh, and dey allus come 'cause dey knowed
he was gwine to give 'em a good old time. De way dey rolled dem logs was a sight, and de more
good corn liquor Marster passed 'round, de faster dem logs rolled. Come night-time, Marster
had a big bonfire built up and sot lots of pitchpine torches 'round so as dere would be plenty
of light for 'em to see how to eat dat fine supper what had done been sot out for 'em. Atter
supper, dey danced nigh all de rest of de night. Mammy used to tell us 'bout de frolics next
day, 'cause us chillun was made to go to bed at sundown. Come day, go day, no matter what might
happen, growin' chillun had to be in bed at deir reg'lar time, but Mammy never forgot to tell
us all 'bout de good times next day.

