A converter or transformer acts as a choking coil as long as its secondary is left open. In
alternating current work special choking coils are used. Thus for theatrical work, a choking
coil with a movable iron core is used to change the intensity of the lights. It is in circuit
with the lamp leads. By thrusting in the core the self-induction is increased and the current
diminishes, lowering the lamps; by withdrawing it the self-induction diminishes, and the current
increases. Thus the lamps can be made to gradually vary in illuminating power like gas lights,
when turned up or down.

Synonyms--Kicking Coil--Reaction Coil.

Fig. 97. DIFFERENTIAL COILS AND PLUNGERS.

Fig. 98. BISECTED COILS.

133    STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Coils, Bisected. Resistance coils with connections at their centers, as shown in the diagram.
They are used for comparing the resistances of two conductors. The connections are arranged
as shown in the coil, each coil being bisected. For the wires, movable knife-edge contacts
are employed. The principle of the Wheatstone bridge is used in the method and calculations.

Coil, Earth. A coil of wire mounted with commutator to be rotated so as to cut the lines of
force of the earth's magnetic field, thereby generating potential difference. The axis of rotation
may be horizontal, when the potential will be due to the vertical component of the earth's
field, or the axis may be horizontal, when the potential will be due to the vertical component,
or it may be set at an intermediate angle.

Synonym--Delezenne's Circle.

Fig. 99. DELEZENNE'S CIRCLE OR EARTH COIL.

Coil, Electric. A coil of wire used to establish a magnetic field by passing a current through
it. The wire is either insulated, or so spaced that its convolutions do not touch.

Coil, Flat. A coil whose windings all lie in one plane, making a sort of disc, or an incomplete
or perforated disc.

Coil, Induction. A coil in which by mutual induction the electromotive force of a portion of
a circuit is made to produce higher or lower electro-motive force, in an adjoining circuit,
or in a circuit, part of which adjoins the original circuit, or adjoins part of it.

An induction coil comprises three principal parts, the core, the primary coil and the secondary
coil. If it is to be operated by a steady current, means must be provided for varying it or
opening and closing the primary circuit. A typical coil will be described.

134   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The core is a mass of soft iron preferably divided to prevent extensive Foucault currents.
A cylindrical bundle of soft iron wires is generally used. Upon this the primary coil of reasonably
heavy wire, and of one or two layers in depth, is wrapped, all being carefully insulated with
shellac and paper where necessary. The secondary coil is wrapped upon or over the primary.
It consists of very fine wire; No. 30 to 36 is about the ordinary range. A great many turns
of this are made. In general terms the electro-motive force developed by the secondary stands
to that of the primary terminals in the ratio of the windings. This is only approximate.

The greatest care is required in the insulating. The secondary is sometimes wound in sections
so as to keep those parts differing greatly in potential far from each other. This prevents
sparking, which would destroy the insulation.

A make and break, often of the hammer and anvil type, is operated by the coil. (See Circuit
Breaker, Automatic.) As the current passes through the primary it magnetizes the core. This
attracts a little hammer which normally resting on an anvil completes the circuit. The hammer
as attracted is lifted from the anvil and breaks the circuit. The soft iron core at once parts
with its magnetism and the hammer falls upon the anvil again completing the circuit. This operation
goes on rapidly, the circuit being opened and closed in quick succession.

Every closing of the primary circuit tends to produce a reverse current in the secondary, and
every opening of the primary circuit tends to produce a direct current in the secondary. Both
are of extremely short duration, and the potential difference of the two terminals of the secondary
may be very high if there are many times more turns in the secondary than in the primary.

The extra currents interfere with the action of an induction coil. To avoid their interference
a condenser is used. This consists of two series of sheets of tin foil. Leaves of paper alternate
with the sheets of tin-foil, the whole being built up into a little book. Each sheet of tin-foil
connects electrically with the sheet next but one to it. Thus each leaf of a set is in connection
with all others of the same set, but is insulated from the others. One set of leaves of tin-foil
connects with the hammer, the other with the anvil. In large coils there may be 75 square feet
of tin-foil in the condenser.

The action of the condenser is to dispose of the direct extra current. When the primary circuit
is opened this current passes into the condenser, which at once discharges itself in the other
direction through the coil. This demagnetizes the core, and the action intensifies and shortens
the induced current. The condenser prevents sparking, and in general improves the action of
the coil.

Many details enter into the construction of coils, and many variations in their construction
obtain. Thus a mercury cup into which a plunger dips often replaces the anvil and hammer.

135   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The induction coil produces a rapid succession of sparks, which may spring across an interval
of forty inches. The secondary generally ends in special terminals or electrodes between which
the sparking takes place. A plate of glass, two inches in thickness, can be pierced by them.
In the great Spottiswoode coil there are 280 miles of wire in the secondary, and the wire is
about No. 36 A.W.G.

Fig. 100. VERTICAL SECTION OF INDUCTION COIL.

Fig. l01. PLAN OF INDUCTION COIL CONNECTIONS.

Induction coils have quite extended use in electrical work. They are used in telephone transmitters,
their primary being in circuit with the microphone, and their secondary with the line and receiving
telephone. In electric welding, and in the alternating current system they have extended application.
In all these cases they have no automatic circuit breaker, the actuating current being of intermittent
or alternating type.

136   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

In the cuts the general construction of an induction coil is shown. In the sectional elevation,
Fig. 100, A, is the iron core; B is the primary of coarse wire; C is a separating tube, which
may be of pasteboard; D is the secondary of fine wire; E, E are the binding posts connected
to the secondary; H, H are the heads or standards; K, K are the terminals of the primary; F
is the vibrating contact spring; G, a standard carrying the contact screw; J is the condenser
with wires, L, M, leading to it.

Referring to the plan, Fig. 101, H represents the primary coil; B and A are two of the separate
sheets of the condenser, each sheet with projecting ears; G, G are the heads of the coil; the
dark lines are connections to the condenser. One set of sheets connects with the primary coil
at C, and also with the vibrating spring shown in plan and in the elevation at F. The other
set of sheets connects with the post, carrying the contact screw. The other terminal of the
primary runs to a binding post E. F, in the plan is a binding post in connection with the standard
and contact screw.

Coil, Induction, Inverted. An induction coil arranged to have a lower electro-motive force
in the secondary than in the primary. This is effected by having more convolutions in the primary
wire than in the secondary. Such coils in practice are used with the alternating current and
then do not include a circuit breaker or condenser. They are employed in alternating current
system and in electric welding. (See Welding, Electric--Converter.)

In the cut an inverted coil, as constructed for electric welding is shown. In it the primary
coil is marked P; the secondary, merely a bar of metal, is marked E, with terminals S, S; the
heavy coils, I, of iron wire are the core; K is a screw for regulating the clamps; J, Z is
a second one for the same purpose, while between D and D' the heat is produced for welding
the bars, B, B', held in the clamps, C, C'. It will be seen how great may be the difference
in turns between the single circle of heavy copper rod or bar which is the secondary of the
coil, and the long coil of wire forming the primary.

Fig. 102. INVERTED INDUCTION COIL FOR ELECTRIC WELDING.

137   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Coil, Induction, Telephone. An induction coil used in telephone circuits. It is placed in the
box or case near the transmitter. The primary is in circuit with the microphone. The secondary
is in circuit with the line and receiving telephone. In the Bell telephone apparatus the primary
of the induction coil is wound with No. 18 to 24 A. W. G. wire to a resistance of 1/2 ohm;
the secondary, with No. 36 wire to a resistance of 80 ohms. The Edison telephone induction
coil was wound with similar wires to a resistance of 3 to 4 ohms and of 250 ohms respectively.

Coil, Magnetizing. A coil of insulated wire for making magnets; and for experimental uses;
it has a short axis and central aperture of as small size as consistent with the diameter of
the bar to be magnetized, which has to pass through it readily. The wire may be quite heavy,
2 or 3 millimeters (.08--.12 inch) thick, and is cemented together with carpenter's glue, or
with shellac or ethereal solution of gum copal. In use it is passed over the bar a few times
while a heavy current is going through it. It is used for magic circles also. (See Circle, Magic.)

Fig. 103. MAGNETIZING COIL.

Coil, Resistance. A coil constructed for the purpose of offering a certain resistance to a
steady current. This resistance may be for the purpose of carrying out quantitative tests,
as in Wheatstone bridge work (see Wheatstone's Bridge), or simply to reduce the intensity of
a current. For the first class of work the coils are wound so as to prevent the creation of
a magnetic field. This is effected by first doubling the wire without breaking it, and then
starting at the bend the doubled wire, which is insulated, is wound on a bobbin or otherwise
until a proper resistance is shown by actual measurement. The coils are generally contained
or set in closed boxes with ebonite tops. Blocks of brass are placed on the top, and one end
from one coil and one end from the next connect with the same block. By inserting a plug, P,
so as to connect any two blocks, which have grooves reamed out for the purpose, the coil beneath
will be short circuited. German silver, platinoid or other alloy, q. v., is generally the material
of the wire. A great object is to have a wire whose resistance will be unaffected by heat.

138   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 104. RESISTANCE COILS AND CONNECTIONS, SHOWING PLUG.

Coil, Rhumkorff. The ordinary induction coil with circuit breaker, for use with original direct
and constant current, is thus termed. (See Coil, Induction.)

Synonym--Inductorium.

Coil, Ribbon. A coil made of copper ribbon wound flatwise, often into a disc-like shape, and
insulated by tape or strips of other material intervening between the successive turns.

Coils, Compensating. Extra coils on the field magnets of dynamos or motors, which coils are
in series with the armature windings for the purpose of keeping the voltage constant. In compound
wound machines the regular series-wound coil is thus termed. In a separately excited dynamo
a coil of the same kind in circuit with the armature may be used as a compensator.

Coils, Henry's. An apparatus used in repeating a classic experiment in electro-magnetic induction,
due to Prof. Henry. It consists in a number of coils, the first and last ones single, the intermediate
ones connected in pairs, and one of one pair placed on the top of one of the next pair. On
opening or closing the circuit of an end coil the induced effect goes through the series and
is felt in the circuit of the other end coil. Prof. Henry extended the series so as to include
seven successive inductions, sometimes called inductions of the first, second, third and other
orders. Frequently ribbon coils (see Coil, Ribbon,) are used in these experiments.

Coils, Sectioned. A device for prolonging the range of magnetic attraction. It consists of
a series of magnetizing coils traversed by an iron plunger. As it passes through them, the
current is turned off the one in the rear or passing to the rear and turned into the next one
in advance. The principle was utilized in one of Page's electric motors about 1850, and later
by others. The port-electric railroad, q. v., utilizes the same principle.

139  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Collecting Ring. In some kinds of generators instead of the commutator a pair of collecting
rings of metal, insulated from the machine and from each other, are carried on the armature
shaft. A brush, q. v., presses on each, and the circuit terminals connect to these two brushes.
Such rings are employed often on alternating current generators, where the current does not
have to be changed or commuted. Collecting rings with their brushes are used also where a current
has to be communicated to a revolving coil or circuit as in the magnetic car wheel, the cut
of which is repeated here. The coil of wire surrounding the wheel and rotating with it has
to receive current. This it receives through the two stationary brushes which press upon two
insulated metallic rings, surrounding the shaft. The terminals of the coil connect one to each
ring. Thus while the coil rotates it constantly receives current, the brushes being connected
to the actuating circuit.

Fig. 105. MAGNETIC CAR WHEEL SHOWING COLLECTING RINGS AND BRUSHES.

Collector. (a) A name for the brush, q. v., in mechanical electric generators, such as dynamos,
a pair of which collectors or brushes press on the commutator or collecting rings, and take
off the current.

(b) The pointed connections leading to the prime conductor on a static machine for collecting
the electricity; often called combs. The points of the combs or collectors face the statically
charged rotating glass plate or cylinder of the machine.

Colombin. The insulating material between the carbons in a Jablochkoff candle or other candle
of that type. Kaolin was originally used. Later a mixture of two parts calcium sulphate (plaster
of Paris) and one part barium sulphate (barytes) was substituted.

The colombin was three millimeters (.12 inch) wide, and two millimeters (.08 inch) thick. (See
Candle, Jablochkoff.)

Column, Electric. An old name for the voltaic pile, made up of a pile of discs of copper and
zinc, with flannel discs, wet with salt solution or dilute acid, between each pair of plates.

140   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Comb. A bar from which a number of teeth project, like the teeth of a comb. It is used as a
collector of electricity from the plate of a frictional or influence electric machine; it is
also used in a lightning arrester to define a path of very high resistance but of low self-induction,
for the lightning to follow to earth.

Communicator. The instrument by which telegraph signals are transmitted is sometimes thus termed.

Commutator. In general an apparatus for changing. It is used on electric current generators,
and motors, and on induction coils, and elsewhere, for changing the direction of currents,
and is of a great variety of types.

Synonym--Commuter (but little used).

Fig. 106. DYNAMO OR MOTOR COMMUTATOR.

Commutator Bars. The metallic segments of a dynamo or motor commutator.

Commutator, Flats in. A wearing away or lowering in level of one or more metallic segments
of a commutator. They are probably due in many cases to sparking, set up by periodic springing
in the armature mounting, or by defective commutator connections.

Commutator of Current Generators and Motors. In general a cylinder, formed of alternate sections
of conducting and non-conducting material, running longitudinally or parallel with the axis.
Its place is on the shaft of the machine, so that it rotates therewith. Two brushes, q. v.,
or pieces of conducting material, press upon its surface.

141  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

As a part of electric motors and generators, its function is to collect the currents produced
by the cutting of lines of force so as to cause them all to concur to a desired result. The
cut shows the simplest form of commutator, one with but two divisions. Its object may be to
enable a current of constant direction to be taken from a rotating armature, in which the currents
alternate or change direction once in each rotation. It is carried by the shaft A of the armature
and rotates with it. It consists of two leaves, S S, to which the terminals of the armature
are connected. Two springs, W W, the terminals of the outer circuit, press against the leaves.
The springs which do this take off the current. It is so placed, with reference to the springs
and armature, that just as the current changes in direction, each leaf changes from one spring
to the other. Thus the springs receive constant direction currents. The changing action of
this commutator appears in its changing the character of the current from alternating to constant.
Were two insulated collecting rings used instead of a commutator, the current in the outer
circuit would be an alternating one. On some dynamos the commutator has a very large number
of leaves.

Taking the Gramme ring armature, there must be as many divisions of the commutator as there
are connections to the coils. In this case the function of the commutator is simply to lessen
friction, for the brushes could be made to take current from the coils directly outside of
the periphery of the ring.

Commutator, Split Ring. A two-division commutator for a motor; it consists of two segments
of brass or copper plate, bent to arcs of a circle, and attached to an insulating cylinder.
They are mounted on the revolving spindle, which carries the armature, and acts as a two part
commutator. For an example of its application, see Armature, Revolving, Page's. (See also Fig.
107.)

Fig. 107. SECTION OF SPLIT RING COMMUTATOR, WITH BRUSHES.

Compass. An apparatus for utilizing the directive force of the earth upon the magnetic needle.
It consists of a circular case, within which is poised a magnetized bar of steel. This points
approximately to the north, and is used on ships and elsewhere to constantly show the direction
of the magnetic meridian. Two general types are used. In one the needle is mounted above a
fixed "card" or dial, on which degrees or points of the compass, q. v., are inscribed. In the
other the card is attached to the needle and rotates with it. The latter represents especially
the type known as the mariner's compass. (See Compass, Mariner's--Compass, Spirit, and other
titles under compass, also Magnetic Axis--Magnetic Elements.) The needle in good compasses
carries for a bearing at its centre, a little agate cup, and a sharp brass pin is the point
of support.

Compass, Azimuth. A compass with sights on one of its diameters; used in determining the magnetic
bearing of objects.

142   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Compass Card. The card in a compass; it is circular in shape, and its centre coincides with
the axis of rotation of the magnetic needle; on it are marked the points of the compass, at
the ends generally of star points. (See Compass, Points of the.) It may be fixed, and the needle
may be poised above it, or it may be attached to the needle and rotate with it.

Compass, Declination. An instrument by which the magnetic declination of any place may be determined.
It is virtually a transit instrument and compass combined, the telescope surmounting the latter.
In the instrument shown in the cut, L is a telescope mounted by its axis, X, in raised journals
with vernier, K, and arc x, for reading its vertical angle, with level n. The azimuth circle,
Q, R, is fixed. A vernier, V is carried by the box, A, E, and both turn with the telescope.
A very light lozenge-shaped magnetic needle, a, b, is pivoted in the exact centre of the graduated
circles, Q R, and M. The true meridian is determined by any convenient astronomical method,
and the telescope is used for the purpose. The variation of the needle from the meridian thus
determined gives the magnetic declination.

FIG. 108. DECLINATION COMPASS.

Compass, Inclination. A magnetic needle mounted on a horizontal axis at its centre of gravity,
so as to be free to assume the dip, or magnetic inclination, when placed in the magnetic meridian.
It moves over the face of a vertical graduated circle, and the frame also carries a spirit
level and graduated horizontal circle. In use the frame is turned until the needle is vertical.
Then the axis of suspension of the needle is in the magnetic meridian. The vertical circle
is then turned through 90° of the horizon, which brings the plane of rotation of the needle
into the magnetic meridian, when it assumes the inclination of the place.

143  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Compass, Mariner's. A compass distinguished by the card being attached to and rotating with
the needle. A mark, the "lubber's mark" of the sailors is made upon the case. This is placed
so that the line connecting it, and the axis of rotation of the card is exactly in a plane,
passing through the keel of the ship. Thus however the ship may be going, the point of the
card under or in line with the "lubber's mark," shows how the ship is pointing. The case of
the mariner's compass is often bowl-shaped and mounted in gimbals, a species of universal joint,
so as to bc always horizontal. (See Compass, Spirit-Gimbals.)

FIG. 109. MARINER'S COMPASS.

Compass, Points of the. The circle of the horizon may bc and is best referred to angular degrees.
It has also been divided into thirty-two equiangular and named points. A point is 11.25°. They
are indicated by their initials as N. N. W., North North-west, N. by W., North by West.

Compass, Spirit. A form of mariner's compass. The bowl or case is hermetically sealed and filled
with alcohol or other nonfreezing liquid. The compass card is made with hollow compartments
so as nearly to float. In this way the friction of the pivot or point of support is greatly
diminished, and the compass is far more sensitive.

Compass, Surveyor's. A species of theodolite; a telescope with collimation lines, mounted above
a compass, so as to be applicable for magnetic surveys. Its use is to be discouraged on account
of the inaccuracy and changes in declination of the magnetic needle.

144   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Compensating Resistances. In using a galvanometer shunt the total resistance of the circuit
is diminished so that in some cases too much current flows through it; in such case additional
resistance, termed as above, is sometimes introduced in series. The shunt in parallel with
the galvanometer is thus compensated for, and the experimental or trial circuit does not take
too much current.

Complementary Distribution. Every distribution of electricity has somewhere a corresponding
distribution, exactly equal to it of opposite electricity; the latter is the complimentary
distribution to the first, and the first distribution is also complimentary to it.

Component. A force may always be represented diagrammatically by a straight line, terminating
in an arrow-head to indicate the direction, and of length to represent the intensity of the
force. The line may always be assumed to represent the diagonal of a parallelogram, two of
whose sides are represented by lines starting from the base of the arrow, and of length fixed
by the condition that the original force shall be the diagonal of the parallelogram of which
they are two contiguous sides; such lines are called components, and actually represent forces
into which the original force may always be resolved. The components can have any direction.
Thus the vertical component of a horizontal force is zero; its horizontal component is equal
to itself. Its 450 component is equal to the square root of one-half of its square.

Condenser. An appliance for storing up electrostatic charges: it is also called a static accumulator.
The telegraphic condenser consists of a box packed full of sheets of tinfoil. Between every
two sheets is a sheet of paraffined paper, or of mica. The alternate sheets of tinfoil are
connected together, and each set has its own binding post. (See Accumulator, Electrostatic.)

Condenser, Sliding. An apparatus representing a Leyden jar whose coatings can be slid past
each other. This diminishes or increases the facing area, and consequently in almost exactly
similar ratio diminishes or increases the capacity of the condenser.

Conductance. The conducting power of a given mass of specified material of specified shape
and connections. Conductance varies in cylindrical or prismatic conductors, inversely as the
length, directly as the cross-section, and with the conductivity of the material. Conductance
is an attribute of any specified conductor, and refers to its shape, length and other factors.
Conductivity is an attribute of any specified material without direct reference to its shape,
or other factors.

Conduction. The process or act of conducting a current.

145  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Conductivity. The relative power of conducting the electric current possessed by different
substances. A path for the current through the ether is opened by the presence of a body of
proper quality, and this quality, probably correlated to opacity, is termed conductivity. There
is no perfect conductor, all offer some resistance, q. v., and there is hardly any perfect
non-conductor. It is the reverse and reciprocal of resistance.

Conductivity, Specific. The reciprocal of specific resistance. (See Resistance--Specific.)

Conductivity, Unit of. The reciprocal of the ohm; it is a more logical unit, but has never
been generally adopted; as a name the title mho (or ohm written backwards) has been suggested
by Sir William Thomson, and provisionally adopted.

Conductivity, Variable. The conductivity for electric currents of conductors varies with their
temperature, with varying magnetization, tension, torsion and compression.

Conductor. In electricity, anything that permits the passage of an electric current. Any disturbance
in the ether takes the form of waves because the ether has restitutive force or elasticity.
In a conductor, on the other hand, this force is wanting; it opens a path through the ether
and a disturbance advances through it from end to end with a wave front, but with no succession
of waves. This advance is the beginning of what is termed a current. It is, by some theorists,
attributed to impulses given at all points along the conductor through the surrounding ether,
so that a current is not merely due to an end thrust. If ether waves preclude a current on
account of their restitutive force, ether waves cannot be maintained in a conductor, hence
conductors should be opaque to light, for the latter is due to ether waves. This is one of
the more practical every day facts brought out in Clerk Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of
light. The term conductor is a relative one, as except a vacuum there is probably no substance
that has not some conducting power. For relative conducting power, tables of conductivity,
q. v., should be consulted. The metals beginning with silver are the best conductors, glass
is one of the worst.

Conductor, Anti-Induction. A current conductor arranged to avoid induction from other lines.
Many kinds have been invented and made the subject of patents. A fair approximation may be
attained by using a through metallic circuit and twisting the wires composing it around each
other. Sometimes concentric conductors, one a wire and the other a tube, are used, insulated,
one acting as return circuit for the other.

Conductor, Conical. A prime conductor of approximately conical shape, but rounded on all points
and angles. Its potential is highest at the point.

146   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Conductor, Imbricated. A conductor used in dynamo armatures for avoiding eddy currents, made
by twisting together two or more strips of copper.

Conductor, Prime. A body often cylindrical or spherical in shape, in any case with no points
or angles, but rounded everywhere, whose surface, if the conductor itself is not metallic,
is made conducting by tinfoil or gold leaf pasted over it. It is supported on an insulating
stand and is used to collect or receive and retain static charges of electricity.

Conductors, Equivalent. Conductors of identical resistance. The quotient of the length divided
by the product of the conductivity and cross-section must be the same in each, if each is of
uniform diameter.

Conjugate. adj. Conjugate coils or conductors are coils placed in such relation that the lines
of force established by one do not pass through the coils of the other. Hence variations of
current in one produce no induced currents in the other.

Connect. v. To bring two ends of a conductor together, or to bring one end of a conductor in
connection with another, or in any way to bring about an electrical connection.

Connector. A sleeve with screws or other equivalent device for securing the ends of wires in
electrical contact. A binding-post, q. v., is an example. Sometimes wire spring-catches are
used, the general idea being a device that enables wires to be connected or released at will
without breaking off or marring their ends. The latter troubles result from twisting wires
together.

Consequent Poles. A bar magnet is often purposely or accidentally magnetized so as to have
both ends of the same polarity, and the center of opposite polarity. The center is said to
comprise two consequent poles. (See Magnet, Anomalous.)

Conservation of Electricity. As every charge of electricity has its equal and opposite charge
somewhere, near or far, more or less distributed, the sum of negative is equal always to the
sum of positive electrical charges. For this doctrine the above title was proposed by Lippman.

Contact Breaker. Any contrivance for closing a circuit, and generally for opening and closing
in quick succession. An old and primitive form consisted of a very coarsely cut file. This
was connected to one terminal, and the other terminal was drawn over its face, making and breaking
contact as it jumped from tooth to tooth. (See Circuit Breaker--do. Automatic, etc.--do. Wheel-do.
Pendulum.)

147   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Contact, Electric. A contact between two conductors, such that a current can flow through it.
It may be brought about by simple touch or impact between the ends or terminals of a circuit,
sometimes called a dotting contact, or by a sliding or rubbing of one terminal on another,
or by a wheel rolling on a surface, the wheel and surface representing the two terminals.

There are various descriptions of contact, whose names are self-explanatory. The term is applied
to telegraph line faults also, and under this, includes different descriptions of contact with
neighboring lines, or with the earth.

Contact Electricity. When two dissimilar substances are touched they assume different electric
potentials. If conductors, their entire surfaces are affected; if dielectrics, only the surfaces
which touch each other. (See Contact Theory.)

Contact Faults. A class of faults often called contacts, due to contact of the conductor of
a circuit with another conductor. A full or metallic contact is where practically perfect contact
is established; a partial contact and intermittent contact are self-explanatory.

Contact Point. A point, pin or stud, often of platinum, arranged to come in contact with a
contact spring, q. v., or another contact point or surface, under any determined conditions.

Contact Potential Difference. The potential difference established by the contact of two dissimilar
substances according to the contact theory, q. v.

Contact Series. An arrangement or tabulation of substances in pairs, each intermediate substance
appearing in two pairs, as the last member of the first, and first member of the succeeding
pair, with the statement of the potential difference due to their contact, the positively electrified
substance coming first. The following table of some contact potentials is due to Ayrton and
Perry: CONTACT SERIES. Difference of Potential in Volts. Zinc--Lead        .210 Lead--Tin 
.069 Tin--Iron         .313 Iron--Copper      .146 Copper--Platinum  .238 Platinum-Carbon   .113

The sum of these differences is 1.089, which is the contact potential between zinc and carbon.

Volta's Law refers to this and states that--
  The difference of potential produced by the contact of any two
  substances is equal to the sum of the differences of potentials
  between the intervening substances in the contact series.

It is to be remarked that the law should no longer be restricted to or stated only for metals.

148   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Contact-spring. A spring connected to one lead of an electric circuit, arranged to press against
another spring, or contact point, q. v., under any conditions determined by the construction
of the apparatus. (See Bell, Electric--Coil, Induction.)

Contact Theory. A theory devised to explain electrification, the charging of bodies by friction,
or rubbing, and the production of current by the voltaic battery. It holds that two bodies,
by mere contact become oppositely electrified. If such contact is increased in extent by rubbing
together, the intensity of their electrification is increased. This electrification is accounted
for by the assumption of different kinetic energy, or energy of molecular motion, possessed
by the two bodies; there being a loss and gain of energy, on the two sides respectively, the
opposite electrifications are the result. Then when separated, the two bodies come apart oppositely
electrified.

The above accounts for the frictional production of electricity. In the voltaic battery, a
separation of the atoms of hydrogen and oxygen, and their consolidation into molecules occurs,
and to such separation and the opposite electrification of the electrodes by the oxygen and
hydrogen, the current is attributed, because the hydrogen goes to one electrode, and the oxygen
to the other, each giving up or sharing its own charge with the electrodes to which it goes.
If zinc is touched to copper, the zinc is positively and the copper negatively electrified.
In the separation of hydrogen and oxygen, the hydrogen is positively and the oxygen negatively
electrified. In the battery, the current is due to the higher contact difference of oxygen
and hydrogen compared to that between zinc and copper. It will be seen that the two contact
actions in a battery work against each other, and that the current is due to a differential
contact action. The zinc in a battery is electrified negatively because the negative electrification
of the oxygen is greater in amount than its own positive electrification due to contact with
the copper.

Contractures. A muscular spasm or tetanus due to the passage of a current of electricity; a
term in electro-therapeutics.

Controlling Field. The magnetic or electro-magnetic field, which is used in galvanometers to
control the magnetic needle, tending to restore it to a definite position whenever it is turned
therefrom. It may be the earth's field or one artificially produced.

Controlling Force. In galvanometers and similar instruments, the force used to bring the needle
or indicator back to zero. (See Controlling Field--Electro-Magnetic Control--Gravity Control--Magnetic
Control--Spring Control.)

149   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Convection, Electric. The production of blasts or currents of air (convection streams) from
points connected to statically charged conductors. The term is sometimes applied to electric
convection of heat. (See Convection of Heat, Electric.)

Convection, Electrolytic. The resistance of acidulated water as a true conductor is known to
be very, almost immeasurably, high. As an electrolytic, its resistance is very much lower.
Hence the current produced between immersed electrodes is theoretically almost null, unless
the difference of potential between them is high enough to decompose the liquid. Yet a feeble
current too great for a true conduction current is sometimes observed when two electrodes with
potential difference too low to cause decomposition are immersed in it. Such a current is termed
an electrolytic convection current. It is supposed to be due to various causes. Some attribute
it to the presence of free oxygen from the air, dissolved in the water with which the hydrogen
combines. Others attribute it to the diffusion of the gases of decomposition in the solution;
others assume a partial polarization of the molecules without decomposition. Other theories
are given, all of which are unsatisfactory. The term is due to Helmholtz.

Convection of Heat, Electric. The effect of a current upon the distribution of heat in an unevenly
heated conductor. In some, such as copper, the current tends to equalize the varying temperatures;
the convection is then said to be positive, as comparable to that of water flowing through
an unequally heated tube. In others, such as platinum or iron, it is negative, making the heated
parts hotter, and the cooler parts relatively cooler.

The effect of the electric current in affecting the distribution of heat in unequally heated
metal (Thomson's effect. q. v.), is sometimes so termed. If a current passes through unequally
heated iron it tends to increase the difference of temperature, and the convection is negative;
in copper it tends to equalize the temperature, and the convection is positive.

Converter. An induction coil used with the alternating current for changing potential difference
and inversely therewith the available current. They generally lower the potential, and increase
the current, and are placed between the primary high potential system that connects the houses
with the central station, and the secondary low potential system within the houses. A converter
consists of a core of thin iron sheets, wound with a fine primary coil of many convolutions,
and a coarse secondary coil of few convolutions. The ratio of convolutions gives the ratio
of maximum potential differences of their terminals between the primary and secondary coils.
The coil may be jacketed with iron to increase the permeance. (See Alternating Current System.)

Fig. 110. FERRANTI'S CONVERTER OR TRANSFORMER.

Fig. 111.   SWINBURNE'S HEDGEHOG TRANSFORMER.

150   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Co-ordinates, System of. A system for indicating the position of points in space by reference
to fixed lines, intersecting at a determined and arbitrary point 0, termed the origin of co-ordinates.
In plane rectangular co-ordinates two lines are drawn through the origin, one horizontal, termed
the axis of abscissas, or axis of X. All distances measured parallel to it, if unknown, are
indicated by x, and are termed abscissas. The other axis is vertical, and is termed the axis
of ordinates, or axis of Y. All distances measured parallel to it, if unknown, are indicated
by y and are termed ordinates. Thus by naming its abscissa and ordinate a point has its position
with reference to the axes determined, and by indicating the relation between a point, line
or curve, and a system of abscissas and ordinates, the properties of a line or curve can be
expressed algebraically. Co-ordinates may also be inclined to each other at any other angles,
forming oblique co-ordinates; relations may be expressed partly in angles referred to the origin
as a centre, giving polar co-ordinates. For solid geometry or calculations in three dimensions,
a third axis, or axis of Z, is used, distances parallel to which if unknown are indicated by z.

Fig. 112. AXES OF CO-ORDINATES.

151   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Cooling Box. In a hydroelectric machine, q. v., a conduit or chest through which the steam
passes on its way to the nozzles. Its object is to partially condense the steam so as to charge
it with water vesicles whose friction against the sides of the nozzles produces the electrification
.

152   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Copper. A metal; one of the elements. Symbol, Cu; atomic weight, 63.5; equivalent, 63.5 and
31.75; valency, 1 and 2; specific gravity, 8.96. It is a conductor of electricity, whose conductivity
is liable to vary greatly on account of impurities.

                                     Annealed.   Hard drawn.
Relative resistance (Silver = 1),     1.063      1.086
Specific resistance,                  1.598      1.634 microhms.

Resistance of a wire at 0° C. (32° F.),
                                     Annealed.     Hard Drawn.     9.831    "
(c) 1 meter long, weighing 1 gram,     .1424  "      .1453   "
(d) 1 meter long, 1 millimeter thick,  .02034 "      .02081  "

                                            microhm.   microhm.
Resistance of 1 inch cube at 0°C. (32° F.)   .6292     .6433

Percentage of resistance change, per 1° C. (1.8° F.) at about 20° C. (68° F.) = 0.388 per cent.

Electro-chemical Equivalent (Hydrogen = .0105)   Cuprous  .6667
                                                 Cupric   .3334

In electricity it has been very extensively used as the negative plate of voltaic batteries.
It has its most extensive application as conductors for all classes of electrical leads.

Copper Bath. A solution of copper used for depositing the metal in the electroplating process.
For some metals, such as zinc or iron, which decompose copper sulphate solution, special baths
have to be used.

The regular bath for copper plating is the following:

To water acidulated with 8 to 10 percent. of sulphuric acid as much copper sulphate is added
as it will take up at the ordinary temperature. The saturated bath should have a density of
1.21. It is used cold and is kept in condition by the use of copper anodes, or fresh crystals
may be added from time to time.

For deposition on zinc, iron, tin and other metals more electropositive than copper, the following
baths may be used, expressed in parts by weight:

                          Tin
                     Iron and Steel.   Cast Iron
                     Cold     Hot.     and Zinc.   Zinc.
Sodium Bisulphate,    500     200         300      100
Potassium Cyanide,    500     700         500      700
Sodium Carbonate,    1000     500         ---      ---
Copper Acetate,       475     500         350      450
Aqua Ammoniae,        350     300         200      150
Water,               2500    2500        2500     2500

These are due to Roseleur.

153  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Copper Stripping Bath. There is generally no object in stripping copper from objects. It can
be done with any of the regular copper baths using the objects to be stripped as anode. The
danger of dissolving the base itself and thereby injuring the article and spoiling the bath
is obvious.

Cord Adjuster. A device for shortening or lengthening the flexible cord, or flexible wire supplying
the current, and by which an incandescent lamp is suspended. It often is merely a little block
of wood perforated with two holes through which the wires pass, and in which they are retained
in any desired position by friction and their own stiffness.

Fig. 113. FLEXIBLE CORD ADJUSTER.

Cord, Flexible. A pair of flexible wire conductors, insulated lightly, twisted together and
forming apparently a cord. They are used for minor services, such as single lamps and the like,
and are designated according to the service they perform, such as battery cords, dental cords
(for supplying dental apparatus) and other titles.

Core. (a) The conductor or conductors of an electric cable. (See Cable Core.)

(b) The iron mass, generally central in an electro-magnet or armature, around which the wire
is coiled. It acts by its high permeance to concentrate or multiply the lines of force, thus
maintaining a more intense field. (See Armature--Magnet, Electro--Magnet, Field--Core, Laminated).
In converters or transformers (See Converter) it often surrounds the wire coils.

Core-discs. Discs of thin wire, for building up armature cores. (See Laminated Core.) The usual
form of core is a cylinder. A number of thin discs of iron are strung upon the central shaft
and pressed firmly together by end nuts or keys. This arrangement, it will be seen, gives a
cylinder as basis for winding the wire on.

Core-discs, Pierced. Core-discs for an armature of dynamo or motor, which are pierced around
the periphery. Tubes of insulating material pass through the peripheral holes, and through
these the conductors or windings are carried. The conductors are thus embedded in a mass of
iron and are protected from eddy currents, and they act to reduce the reluctance of the air
gaps. From a mechanical point of view they are very good. For voltages over 100 they are not
advised.

Synonym--Perforated Core-discs.

154   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Core-discs, Segmental. Core-discs made in segments, which are bolted together to form a complete
disc or section of the core. The plan is adopted principally on large cores. The discs thus
made up are placed together to form the core exactly as in the case of ordinary one piece discs.

Fig. 114. PIERCED OR PERFORATED CORE-DISC.

Core-discs, Toothed. Core-discs of an armature of a dynamo or motor, which discs are cut into
notches on the periphery. These are put together to form the armature core, with the notches
corresponding so as to form a series of grooves in which the wire winding is laid. This construction
reduces the actual air-gaps, and keeps the wires evenly spaced. Distance-pieces of box-wood,
m, m, are sometimes used to lead the wires at the ends of the armature.

Fig. 115. TOOTHED CORE-DISC.

Core, Laminated. A core of an armature, induction coil or converter or other similar construction,
which is made up of plates insulated more or less perfectly from each other. The object of
lamination is to prevent the formation of Foucault currents. (See Currents, Foucault.) As insulation,
thin shellacked paper may be used, or sometimes the superficial oxidation of the plates alone
is relied on. The plates, in general, are laid perpendicular to the principal convolutions
of the wire, or parallel to the lines of force. The object is to break up currents, and such
currents are induced by the variation in intensity of the field of force, and their direction
is perpendicular to the lines of force, or parallel to the inducing conductors.

A core built up of core discs is sometimes termed a tangentially laminated core. Made up of
ribbon or wire wound coil fashion, it is termed a radially laminated core.

155  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Core Ratio. In a telegraph cable the ratio existing between the diameter of the conducting
core and the insulator. To get a ratio approximately accurate in practical calculations, the
diameter of the core is taken at 5 per cent. less than its actual diameter. The calculations
are those referring to the electric constants of the cable, such as its static capacity and
insulation resistance.

Core, Ribbon. For discoidal ring-shaped cores of armatures, iron ribbon is often used to secure
lamination and prevent Foucault currents.

Synonym--Tangentially Laminated Core.

Core, Ring. A core for a dynamo or motor armature, which core forms a complete ring.

Core, Stranded. In an electric light cable, a conducting core made up of a group of wires laid
or twisted together.

Core, Tubular. Tubes used as cores for electro-magnets. For very small magnetizing power, tubular
cores are nearly as efficient as solid ones in straight magnets, because the principal reluctance
is due to the air-path. On increasing the magnetization the tubular core becomes less efficient
than the solid core, as the reluctance of the air-path becomes proportionately of less importance
in the circuit.

Corpusants. The sailors' name for St. Elmo's Fire, q. v.

Coulomb. The practical unit of quantity of electricity. It is the quantity passed by a current
of one ampere intensity in one second. It is equal to 1/10 the C. G. S. electro-magnetic unit
of quantity, and to 3,000,000,000 C. G. S. electrostatic units of quantity. It corresponds
to the decomposition of .0935 milligrams of water, or to the deposition of 1.11815 milligrams
of silver.

Coulomb's Laws of Electrostatic Attraction and Repulsion. 1. The repulsions or attractions
between two electrified bodies are in the inverse ratio of the squares of their distance.

2. The distance remaining the same, the force of attraction or repulsion between two electrified
bodies is directly as the product of the quantities of electricity with which they are charged.

156   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Counter, Electric. A device for registering electrically, or by electro-magnetic machinery,
the revolutions of shafts, or any other data or factors.

Counter-electro-motive Force. A potential difference in a circuit opposed to the main potential
difference, and hence, resisting the operation of the latter, and diminishing the current which
would be produced without it. It appears in electric motors, which, to a certain extent, operate
as dynamos and reduce the effective electro-motive force that operates them. It appears in
the primary coils of induction coils, and when the secondary circuit is open, is almost equal
to the main electro-motive force, so that hardly any current can go through them under such
conditions. It appears in galvanic batteries, when hydrogen accumulates on the copper plate,
and in other chemical reactions. A secondary battery is charged by a current in the reverse
direction to that which it would normally produce. Its own potential difference then appears
as a counter-electro-motive force.

Synonym--Back Electro-motive Force.

Counter-electro-motive Force of Polarization. To decompose a solution by electrolysis, enough
electro-motive force is required to overcome the energy of composition of the molecule decomposed.
A part of this takes the form of a counter-electromotive force, one which, for a greater or
less time would maintain a current in the opposite direction if the original source of current
were removed. Thus in the decomposition of water, the electrodes become covered, one with bubbles
of oxygen, the others with bubbles of hydrogen; this creates a counter E. M. F. of polarization.
In a secondary battery, the working current may be defined as due to this cause.

Synonym--Back Electro-motive Force of Polarization.

Couple. Two forces applied to different points of a straight line, when opposed in direction
or unequal in amount, tend to cause rotation about a point intermediate between their points
of application and lying on the straight line. Such a pair constitute a couple.

Couple, Voltaic or Galvanic. The combination of two electrodes, and a liquid or liquids, the
electrodes being immersed therein, and being acted on differentially by the liquid or liquids.
The combination constitutes a source of electro-motive force and consequently of current. It
is the galvanic or voltaic cell or battery. (See Battery, Voltaic--Contact Theory--Electro-motive
Force--Electro-motive Series.)

Coupling. The joining of cells of a galvanic battery, of dynamos or of other devices, so as
to produce different effects as desired.

157  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY

Couple, Astatic. An astatic couple is a term sometimes applied to astatic needles, q.v.

C. P. (a) An abbreviation of or symbol for candle power, q. v.

(b) An abbreviation of chemically pure. It is used to indicate a high degree of purity of chemicals.
Thus, in a standard Daniell battery, the use of C. P. chemicals may be prescribed or advised.

Crater. The depression that forms in the positive carbon of a voltaic arc. (See Arc, Voltaic.)

Creeping. A phenomenon of capillarity, often annoying in battery jars. The solution, by capillarity,
rises a little distance up the sides, evaporates, and as it dries more creeps up through it,
and to a point a little above it. This action is repeated until a layer of the salts may form
over the top of the vessel. To avoid it, paraffine is often applied to the edges of the cup,
or a layer of oil, often linseed oil, is poured on the battery solution,

Crith. The weight of a litre of hydrogen at 0º C. (32º F.), and 760 mm. (30 inches) barometric
pressure. It is .0896 grams. The molecular weight of any gas divided by 2 and multiplied by
the value of the crith, gives the weight of a litre of the gas in question. Thus a litre of
electrolytic gas, a mixture of two molecules of hydrogen for one of oxygen, with a mean molecular
weight of 12, weighs (12/2) * .0896 or .5376 gram.

Critical Speed. (a) The speed of rotation at which a series dynamo begins to excite its own field.

(b) In a compound wound dynamo, the speed at which the same potential is generated with the
full load being taken from the machine, as would be generated on open circuit, in which case
the shunt coil is the only exciter. The speed at which the dynamo is self-regulating.

(c) In a dynamo the rate of speed when a small change in the speed of rotation produces a comparatively
great change in the electro-motive force. It corresponds to the same current (the critical
current) in any given series dynamo.

Cross. (a) A contact between two electric conductors; qualified to express conditions as a
weather cross, due to rain, a swinging cross when a wire swings against another, etc.

(b) vb. To make such contact.

Cross-Connecting Board. A special switch board used in telephone exchanges and central telegraph
offices. Its function is, by plugs and wires, to connect the line wires with any desired section
of the main switchboard. The terminals of the lines as they enter the building are connected
directly to the cross-connecting board.

158   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Cross Connection. A method of disposing of the effects of induction from neighboring circuits
by alternately crossing the two wires of a metallic telephone circuit, so that for equal intervals
they lie to right and left, or one above, and one below.

Crossing Wires. The cutting out of a defective section in a telegraph line, by carrying two
wires from each side of the defective section across to a neighboring conductor, pressing it
for the time into service and cutting the other wire if necessary.

Cross-magnetizing Effect. A phase of armature interference. The current in an armature of a
dynamo or motor is such as to develop lines of force approximately at right angles to those
of the field. The net cross-magnetizing effect is such component of these lines, as is at right
angles to the lines produced by the field alone.

Cross-over Block. A piece of porcelain or other material shaped to receive two wires which
are to cross each other, and hold them so that they cannot come in contact. It is used in wiring
buildings, and similar purposes. (See Cleat, Crossing.)

Cross Talk. On telephone circuits by induction or by contact with other wires sound effects
of talking are sometimes received from other circuits; such effects are termed cross talk.

Crucible, Electric. A crucible for melting difficultly fusible substances, or for reducing
ores, etc., by the electric arc produced within it. Sometimes the heating is due more to current
incandescence than to the action of an arc.

Fig. 116. ELECTRIC FURNACE OR CRUCIBLE.

Crystallization, Electric. Many substances under proper conditions take a crystalline form.
The great condition is the passage from the fluid into the solid state. When such is brought
about by electricity in any way, the term electric crystallization may be applied to the phenomenon.
A solution of silver nitrate for instance, decomposed by a current, may give crystals of metallic
silver.

159    STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Cup, Porous. A cup used in two-fluid voltaic batteries to keep the solutions separate to some
extent. It forms a diaphragm through which diffusion inevitably takes place, but which is considerably
retarded, while electrolysis and electrolytic convection take place freely through its walls.
As material, unglazed pottery is very generally used.

In some batteries the cup is merely a receptacle for the solid depolarizer. Thus, in the Leclanché
battery, the cup contains the manganese dioxide and graphite in which the carbon electrode
is embedded, but does not separate two solutions, as the battery only uses one. Nevertheless,
the composition of the solution outside and inside may vary, but such variation is incidental
only, and not an essential of the operation.

Current. The adjustment, or effects of a continuous attempt at readjustment of potential difference
by a conductor, q. v., connecting two points of different potential. A charged particle or
body placed in a field of force tends to move toward the oppositely charged end or portion
of the field. If a series of conducting particles or a conducting body are held so as to be
unable to move, then the charge of the field tends, as it were, to move through it, and a current
results. It is really a redistribution of the field and as long as such redistribution continues
a current exists. A current is assumed to flow from a positive to a negative terminal; as in
the case of a battery, the current in the outer circuit is assumed to flow from the carbon
to the zinc plate, and in the solution to continue from zinc to carbon. As a memoria technica
the zinc may be thought of as generating the current delivering it through the solution to
the carbon, whence it flows through the wire connecting them. (See Ohm's Law--Maxwell's Theory
of Light--Conductor-Intensity.)

Current, After. A current produced by the animal tissue after it has been subjected to a current
in the opposite direction for some time. The tissue acts like a secondary battery. The term
is used in electro-therapeutics.

Current, Alternating. Usually defined and spoken of as a current flowing alternately in opposite
directions. It may be considered as a succession of currents, each of short duration and of
direction opposite to that of its predecessor. It is graphically represented by such a curve
as shown in the cut. The horizontal line may denote a zero current, that is no current at all,
or may be taken to indicate zero electro-motive force. The curve represents the current, or
the corresponding electro-motive forces. The further from the horizontal line the greater is
either, and if above the line the direction is opposite to that corresponding to the positions
below the line. Thus the current is alternately in opposite directions, has periods of maximum
intensity, first in one and then in the opposite sense, and between these, passing from one
direction to the other, is of zero intensity. It is obvious that the current may rise quickly
in intensity and fall slowly, or the reverse, or may rise and fall irregularly. All such phases
may be shown by the curve, and a curve drawn to correctly represent these variations is called
the characteristic curve of such current. It is immaterial whether the ordinates of the curve
be taken as representing current strength or electromotive force. If interpreted as representing
electro-motive force, the usual interpretation and best, the ordinates above the line are taken
as positive and those below as negative.

Synonyms--Reversed Current--Periodic Currents.

Fig. 117. CHARACTERISTIC CURVE OF ALTERNATING CURRENT.

160   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Atomic. A unit of current strength used in Germany; the strength of a current which
will liberate in 24 hours (86,400 seconds) one gram of hydrogen gas, in a water voltameter.
The atomic current is equal to 1.111 amperes. In telegraphic work the milliatom is used as
a unit, comparable to the milliampere. The latter is now displacing it.

Current, Charge. If the external coatings of a charged and uncharged jar are placed in connection,
and if the inner coatings are now connected, after separating them they are both found to be
charged in the same manner. In this process a current has been produced between the outside
coatings and one between the inner ones, to which Dove has given the name Charge Current, and
which has all the properties of the ordinary discharge current. (Ganot.)

Current, Circular. A current passing through a circular conductor; a current whose path is
in the shape of a circle.

Current, Commuted. A current changed, as regards direction or directions, by a commutator,
q. v., or its equivalent.

Current, Constant. An unvarying current. A constant current system is one maintaining such
a current. In electric series, incandescent lighting, a constant current is employed, and the
system is termed as above. In arc lighting systems, the constant current series arrangement
is almost universal.

161  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Continuous. A current of one direction only; the reverse of an alternating current.
(See Current, Alternating.)

Current, Critical. The current produced by a dynamo at its critical speed; at that speed when
a slight difference in speed produces a great difference in electro-motive force. On the characteristic
curve it corresponds to the point where the curve bends sharply, and where the electro-motive
force is about two-thirds its maximum.

Current, Daniell/U.S. , Daniell/Siemens' Unit. A unit of current strength used in Germany.
It is the strength of a current produced by one Daniell cell in a circuit of the resistance
of one Siemens' unit. The current deposits 1.38 grams of copper per hour. It is equal to 1.16
amperes.

Current, Demarcation. In electro-therapeutics, a current which can be taken from an injured
muscle, the injured portion acting electro-negatively toward the uninjured portion.

Current Density. The current intensity per unit of cross-sectional area of the conductor. The
expression is more generally used for electrolytic conduction, where the current-density is
referred to the mean facing areas of the electrodes, or else to the facing area of the cathode
only.

The quality of the deposited metal is intimately related to the current density. (See Burning.)

              Proper Current Density for Electroplating
           Amperes Per Square Foot of Cathode.--(Urquhart.)
Copper, Acid Bath.                               5.0  to 10.0
"       Cyanide Bath,                            3.0  "   5.0
Silver, Double Cyanide,                          2.0  "   5.0
Gold, Chloride dissolved in Potassium Cyanide,   1.0  "   2.0
Nickel, Double Sulphate,                         6.6  "   8.0
Brass, Cyanide,                                  2.0  "   3.0

Current, Diacritical. A current, which, passing through a helix surrounding an iron core, brings
it to one-half its magnetic saturation, q. v.

Current, Diaphragm. If a liquid is forced through a diaphragm, a potential difference between
the liquid on opposite sides of the diaphragm is maintained. Electrodes or terminals of platinum
may be immersed in the liquid, and a continuous current, termed a diaphragm current, may be
taken as long as the liquid is forced through the diaphragm. The potential difference is proportional
to the pressure, and also depends on the nature of the diaphragm and on the liquid.

162   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Direct. A current of unvarying direction, as distinguished from an alternating current.
It may be pulsatory or intermittent in character, but must be of constant direction.

Current, Direct Induced. On breaking a circuit, if it is susceptible of exercising self-induction,
q. v., an extra current, in the direction of the original is induced, which is called "direct"
because in the same direction as the original. The same is produced by a current in one circuit
upon a parallel one altogether separated from it. (See Induction, Electro-Magnetic-Current, Extra.)

Synonym--Break Induced Current.

Current, Direction of. The assumed direction of a current is from positively charged electrode
to negatively charged one; in a galvanic battery from the carbon or copper plate through the
outer circuit to the zinc plate and back through the electrolyte to the carbon or copper plate.
(See Current.)

Current, Displacement. The movement or current of electricity taking place in a dielectric
during displacement. It is theoretical only and can only be assumed to be of infinitely short
duration. (See Displacement, Electric.)

Currents, Eddy Displacement. The analogues of Foucault currents, hypothetically produced in
the mass of a dielectric by the separation of the electricity or by its electrification. (See
Displacement.)

Current, Extra. When a circuit is suddenly opened or closed a current of very brief duration,
in the first case in the same direction, in the other case in the opposite direction, is produced,
which exceeds the ordinary current in intensity. A high potential difference is produced for
an instant only. These are called extra currents. As they are produced by electro-magnetic
induction, anything which strengthens the field of force increases the potential difference
to which they are due. Thus the wire may be wound in a coil around an iron core, in which case
the extra currents may be very strong. (See Induction, Self-Coil, Spark.)

Current, Faradic. A term in medical electricity for the induced or secondary alternating current,
produced by comparatively high electro-motive force, such as given by an induction coil or
magneto-generator, as distinguished from the regular battery current.

163   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Foucault. A current produced in solid conductors, and which is converted into heat
(Ganot). These currents are produced by moving the conductors through a field, or by altering
the strength of a field in which they are contained. They are the source of much loss of energy
and other derangement in dynamos and motors, and to avoid them the armature cores are laminated,
the plane of the laminations being parallel to the lines of force. (See Core, Laminated.)

The presence of Foucault currents, if of long duration, is shown by the heating of the metal
in which they are produced. In dynamo armatures they are produced sometimes in the metal of
the windings, especially if the latter are of large diameter.

Synonyms--Eddy Currents--Local Currents--Parasitical Currents.

Current, Franklinic. In electro-therapeutics the current produced by a frictional electric machine.

Current, Induced. The current produced in a conductor by varying the conditions of a field
of force in which it is placed; a current produced by induction.

Current Induction. Induction by one current on another or by a portion of a current on another
portion of itself. (See Induction.)

Current Intensity. Current strength, dependent on or defined by the quantity of electricity
passed by such current in a given time. The practical unit of current intensity is the ampere,
equal to one coulomb of quantity per second of time.

Current, Inverse Induced. The current induced in a conductor, when in a parallel conductor
or in one having a parallel component a current is started, or is increased in strength. It
is opposite in direction to the inducing current and hence is termed inverse. (See Induction,
Electro-magnetic.) The parallel conductors may be in one circuit or in two separate circuits.

Synonyms--Make-induced Current--Reverse-induced Current.

Current, Jacobi's Unit of. A current which will liberate one cubic centimeter of mixed gases
(hydrogen and oxygen) in a water voltameter per minute, the gases being measured at 0º C. (32º
F.) and 760 mm. (29.92 inches) barometric pressure. It is equal to .0961 ampere.

Current, Joint. The current given by several sources acting together. Properly, it should be
restricted to sources connected in series, thus if two battery cells are connected in series
the current they maintain is their joint current.

Current, Linear. A current passing through a straight conductor; a current whose path follows
a straight line.

164   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Make and Break. A succession of currents of short duration, separated by absolute
cessation of current. Such current is produced by a telegraph key, or by a microphone badly
adjusted, so that the circuit is broken at intervals. The U. S. Courts have virtually decided
that the telephone operates by the undulatory currents, and not by a make and break current.
Many attempts have been made to produce a telephone operating by a demonstrable make and break
current, on account of the above distinction, in hopes of producing a telephone outside of
the scope of the Bell telephone patent. In the single needle telegraph system the current which
deflects the needle to the left.

Current, Nerve and Muscle. A current of electricity yielded by nerves or muscles. Under proper
conditions feeble currents can be taken from nerves, as the same can be taken from muscles.

Current, Opposed. The current given by two or more sources connected in opposition to each
other. Thus a two volt and a one volt battery may be connected in opposition, giving a net
voltage of only one volt, and a current due to such net voltage.

Current, Partial. A divided or branch current. A current which goes through a single conductor
to a point where one or more other conductors join it in parallel, and then divides itself
between the several conductors, which must join further on, produces partial currents. It produces
as many partial currents as the conductors among which it divides. The point of division is
termed the point of derivation.

Synonym--Derived Current.

Current, Polarizing. In electro-therapeutics, a constant current.

Current, Positive. In the single needle telegraph system the current which deflects the needle
to the right.

Current, Pulsatory. A current of constant direction, but whose strength is constantly varying,
so that it is a series of pulsations of current instead of a steady flow.

Current, Rectified. A typical alternating current is represented by a sine curve, whose undulations
extend above and below the zero line. If by a simple two member commutator the currents are
caused to go in one direction, in place of the sine curve a series of short convex curves following
one another and all the same side of the zero line results. The currents all in the same direction,
become what is known as a pulsating current.

Synonym--Redressed Current.

165  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Rectilinear. A current flowing through a rectilinear conductor. The action of currents
depending on their distance from the points where they act, their contour is a controlling
factor. This contour is determined by the conductors through which they flow.

Current Reverser. A switch or other contrivance for reversing the direction of a current in
a conductor.

Currents, Ampérian. The currents of electricity assumed by Ampere's theory to circulate around
a magnet. As they represent the maintenance of a current or of currents without the expenditure
of energy they are often assumed to be of molecular dimensions. As they all go in the same
sense of rotation and are parallel to each other the result is the same as if a single set
of currents circulated around the body of the magnet. More will be found on this subject under
Magnetism. The Ampérian currents are purely hypothetical and are predicated on the existence
of a field of force about a permanent magnet. (See Magnetism, Ampére's Theory of.)

If the observer faces the north pole of a magnet the Ampérian currents are assumed to go in
the direction opposite to that of a watch, and the reverse for the south pole.

Figs. 118-119 DIRECTION OF AMPÉRIAN CURRENTS.

Currents, Angular. Currents passing through conductors which form an angle with each other.

Currents, Angular, Laws of. 1. Two rectilinear currents, the directions of which form an angle
with each other, attract one another when both approach to or recede from the apex of the angle.

2. They repel one another, if one approaches and the other recedes from the apex of the angle.

166   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY

Currents, Earth. In long telegraph lines having terminal grounds or connected to earth only
at their ends, potential differences are sometimes observed that are sufficient to interfere
with their working and which, of course, can produce currents. These are termed earth-currents.
It will be noted that they exist in the wire, not in the earth. They may be of 40 milliamperes
strength, quite enough to work a telegraph line without any battery. Lines running N. E. and
S. W. are most affected; those running N.W. and S. E. very much less so. These currents only
exist in lines grounded at both ends, and appear in underground wires. Hence they are not attributable
to atmospheric electricity. According to Wilde they are the primary cause of magnetic storms,
q. v., but not of the periodical changes in the magnetic elements. (See Magnetic Elements.)

Synonym--Natural Currents.

Current, Secondary. (a) A current induced in one conductor by a variation in the current in
a neighboring one; the current produced in the secondary circuit of an induction coil or alternating
current converter.

(b) The current given by a secondary battery. This terminology is not to be recommended.

Current, Secretion. In electro-therapeutics, a current due to stimulation of the secretory nerves.

Current Sheet. (a) If two terminals of an active circuit are connected to two points of a thin
metallic plate the current spreads over or occupies practically a considerable area of such
plate, and this portion of the current is a current sheet.

The general contour of the current sheet can be laid out in lines of flux. Such lines resemble
lines of force. Like the latter, they are purely an assumption, as the current is not in any
sense composed  of lines.

(b) A condition of current theoretically brought about by the Ampérian currents in a magnet.
Each molecule having its own current, the contiguous portions of the molecules counteract each
other and give a resultant zero current. All that remains is the outer sheet of electric current
that surrounds the whole.

Current, Sinuous. A current passing through a sinuous conductor.

Currents, Multiphase. A term applied to groups of currents of alternating type which constantly
differ from each other by a constant proportion of periods of alternation. They are produced
on a single dynamo, the winding being so contrived that two, three or more currents differing
a constant amount in phase are collected from corresponding contact rings. There are virtually
as many windings on the armature as there are currents to be produced. Separate conductors
for the currents must be used throughout.

Synonyms--Polyphase Currents--Rotatory Currents.

167  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Currents of Motion. In electro-therapeutics, the currents produced in living muscle or nerves
after sudden contraction or relaxation.

Currents of Rest. In electro-therapeutics, the currents traversing muscular or nervous tissue
when at rest. Their existence is disputed.

Currents, Orders of. An intermittent current passing through a conductor will induce secondary
alternating currents in a closed circuit near it. This secondary current will induce a tertiary
current in a third closed circuit near it, and so on. The induced currents are termed as of
the first, second, third and other orders. The experiment is carried out by Henry's coils.
(See Coils, Henry's.)

Currents, Thermo-electric. These currents, as produced from existing thermo-electric batteries,
are generated by low potential, and are of great constancy. The opposite junctions of the plates
can be kept at constant temperatures, as by melting ice and condensing steam, so that an identical
current can be reproduced at will from a thermopile.

Thermo-electric currents were used by Ohm in establishing his law. (See Ohm's Law.)

Current, Swelling. In electro-therapeutics, a current gradually increasing in strength.

Current, Undulatory. A current varying in strength without any abrupt transition from action
to inaction, as in the make and break current. The current may be continually changing in direction
(see Current, Alternating), and hence, of necessity, may pass through stages of zero intensity,
but such transition must be by a graduation, not by an abrupt transition. Such current may
be represented by a curve, such as the curve of sines. It is evident that the current may pass
through the zero point as it crosses the line or changes direction without being a make and
break current. When such a current does alternate in direction it is sometimes called a "shuttle
current." The ordinary commercial telephone current and the alternating current is of this
type. (See Current, Make and Break.)

Current, Unit. Unit length is the centimeter; unit force is the dyne.

168   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Current, Wattless. Whenever there is a great difference in phase in an alternating current
dynamo between volts and current, the true watts are much less than the product of the virtual
volts and amperes, because the the watts are obtained by multiplying the product of the virtual
volts and amperes by the cosine of the angle of lag (or lead). Any alternating current may
be resolved into two components in quadrature with each other, one in phase with the volts,
the other in quadrature therewith, the former is termed by S. P. Thompson the Working Current,
the latter the Wattless Current. The greater the angle of lag the greater will be the wattless
current.

Curve, Arrival. A curve representing the rate of rise of intensity of current at the end of
a long conductor when the circuit has been closed at the other end. In the Atlantic cable,
for instance, it would require about 108 seconds for the current at the distant end to attain
9/10 of its full value. The curve is drawn with its abscissa representing time and its ordinates
current strength.

Curve, Characteristic. A curve indicating, graphically, the relations between any two factors,
which are interdependent, or which vary simultaneously. Thus in a dynamo, the voltage increases
with the speed of rotation, and a characteristic curve may be based on the relations between
the speed of rotation and voltage developed. The current produced by a dynamo varies with the
electro-motive force, and a curve can express the relations between the electro-motive force
and the current produced.

A characteristic curve is usually laid out by rectangular co-ordinates (see Co-ordinates).
Two lines are drawn at right angles to each other, one vertical, and the other horizontal.
One set of data are marked off on the horizontal line, say one ampere, two amperes, and so
on, in the case of a dynamo's characteristic curve.

For each amperage of current there is a corresponding voltage in the circuit. Therefore on
each ampere mark a vertical is erected, and on that the voltage corresponding to such amperage
is laid off. This gives a series of points, and these points may be connected by a curve. Such
curve will be a characteristic curve.

The more usual way of laying out a curve is to work directly upon the two axes. On one is laid
off the series of values of one set of data; on the other the corresponding series of values
of the other dependent data. Vertical lines or ordinates, q. v., are erected on the horizontal
line or axis of abscissas at the points laid off; horizontal lines or abscissas, q. v., are
drawn from the points laid off on the vertical line or axis of ordinates. The characteristic
curve is determined by the intersections of each corresponding pair of abscissa and ordinate.

169  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Variations exist in characteristic curve methods. Thus to get the characteristic of a commutator,
radial lines may be drawn from a circle representing its perimeter. Such lines may be of length
proportional to the voltage developed on the commutator at the points whence the lines start.
A cut giving an example of such a curve is given in Fig. 125. (See Curve of Distribution of
Potential in Armature.)

There is nothing absolute in the use of ordinates or abscissas. They may be interchanged. Ordinarily
voltages are laid off as ordinates, but the practise may be reversed. The same liberty holds
good for all characteristic curves. Custom, however, should be followed.

Synonym--Characteristic.

Fig. 120. CHARACTERISTIC CURVE OF A DYNAMO WITH HORSE POWER CURVES.

Curve, Characteristic, of Converter. The characteristic curve of the secondary circuit of an
alternating current converter. It gives by the usual methods (see Curve, Characteristic,) the
relations between the electro-motive force and the current in the secondary circuit at a fixed
resistance. If connected in parallel a constant electro-motive force is maintained, and the
curve is virtually a straight line. If connected in series an elliptical curve is produced.

170   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Curve, Charging. In secondary battery manipulation, a curve indicating the increase of voltage
as the charging is prolonged. The rise in voltage with the duration of the charging current
is not uniform. In one case, shown in the cut, there was a brief rapid rise of about 0.1 volt;
then a long slow rise for 0.15 volt; then a more rapid rise for nearly 0.40 volt, and then
the curve became a horizontal line indicating a cessation of increase of voltage. The charging
rate should be constant.

The horizontal line is laid off in hours, the vertical in volts, so that the time is represented
by abscissas and the voltage by ordinates of the curve.

Fig. 121. CHARGING CURVE OF A SECONDARY BATTERY.

Curve, Discharging. A characteristic curve of a storage battery, indicating the fall in voltage
with hours of discharge. The volts may be laid off on the axis of ordinates, and the hours
of discharging on the axis of abscissas. To give it meaning the rate of discharge must be constant.

Curve, Electro-motive Force. A characteristic curve of a dynamo. It expresses the relation
between its entire electromotive force, as calculated by Ohm's Law, and the current intensities
corresponding thereto. To obtain the data the dynamo is driven with different resistances in
the external circuit and the current is measured for each resistance. This gives the amperes.
The total resistance of the circuit, including that of the dynamo, is known. By Ohm's Law the
electro-motive force in volts is obtained for each case by multiplying the total resistance
of the circuit in ohms by the amperes of current forced through such resistance. Taking the
voltages thus calculated for ordinates and the corresponding amperages for abscissas the curve
is plotted. An example is shown in the cut.

171  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Curve, External Characteristic. A characteristic curve of a dynamo, corresponding to the electro-motive
force curve, except that the ordinates represent the voltages of the external circuit, the
voltages as taken directly from the terminals of the machine, instead of the total electro-motive
force of the circuit. The dynamo is run at constant speed. The resistance of the external circuit
is varied. The voltages at the terminals of the machine and the amperages of current corresponding
thereto are determined. Using the voltages thus determined as ordinates and the corresponding
amperages as abscissas the external characteristic curve is plotted.

This curve can be mechanically produced. A pencil may be moved against a constant force by
two electro-magnets pulling at right angles to each other. One must be excited by the main
current of the machine, the other by a shunt current from the terminals of the machine. The
point of the pencil will describe the curve.

Fig. 122. CHARACTERISTIC CURVE OF A DYNAMO.

Curve, Horse Power. Curves indicating electric horse power. They are laid out with co-ordinates,
volts being laid off on the axis of ordinates, and amperes on the axis of abscissas generally.
The curves are drawn through points where the product of amperes by volts equals 746. On the
same diagram 1, 2, 3 .... and any other horse powers can be plotted if within the limits. See
Fig. 120.

Curve, Isochasmen. A line drawn on the map of the earth's surface indicating the locus of equal
frequency of auroras.

172   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Curve, Life. A characteristic curve showing the relations between the durability and conditions
affecting the same in any appliance. It is used most for incandescent lamps. The hours of burning
before failure give ordinates, and the rates of burning, expressed indirectly in volts or in
candle-power, give abscissas. For each voltage or for each candle-power an average duration
is deducible from experience, so that two dependent sets of data are obtained for the construction
of the curve.

Curve, Load. A characteristic curve of a dynamo, expressing the relation between its voltage
and the amount of excitation under a definite condition of ampere load, at a constant speed.
The ordinates represent voltage, the abscissas ampere turns in the field, and the curves may
be constructed for a flow of 0, 50, 100, or .. , or any other number of amperes.

Fig. 123. LOAD CURVES.

Curve, Magnetization. A characteristic curve of an electromagnet, indicating the relation of
magnetization to exciting current. Laying off on the axis of ordinates the quantities of magnetism
evoked, and the corresponding strengths of the exciting current on the axis of abscissas, the
curve can be plotted. It first rises rapidly, indicating a rapid increase of magnetization,
but grows nearly horizontal as the iron becomes more saturated. The effect due to the coils
alone, or the effect produced in the absence of iron is a straight line, because air does not
change in permeability.

Curve of Distribution of Potential in Armature. A characteristic curve indicating the distribution
of potential difference between adjoining sections of the commutator of an armature in different
positions all around it. The potential differences are taken by a volt-meter or potential galvanometer,
connection with the armature being made by two small metal brushes, held at a distance apart
equal to the distance from centre to centre of two adjoining commutator bars. The curve is
laid out as if by polar co-ordinates extending around the cross-section of the commutator,
with the distances from the commutator surface to the curve proportional to the potential differences
as determined by shifting the pair of brushes all around the commutator.

The above is S. P. Thompson's method. Another method of W. M. Mordey involves the use of a
pilot brush. (See Brush, Pilot.) Otherwise the method is in general terms identical with the above.

173  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 124. MAGNETIZATION CURVE.

Fig. 125. ARMATURE: CURVE.

Fig. 126. DEVELOPMENT OF ARMATURE CURVE.

Curve of Dynamo. The characteristic curve of a dynamo. (See Curve, Characteristic.)

Curve of Sines. An undulating curve representing wave motion. It is produced by compounding
a simple harmonic motion, or a two and fro motion like that of an infinitely long pendulum
with a rectilinear motion. Along a horizontal line points may be laid off to represent equal
periods of time. Then on each point a perpendicular must be erected. The length of each must
be equal to the length of path traversed by the point up to the expiration of each one of the
given intervals of time. The abscissas are proportional to the times and the ordinates to the
sines of angles proportional to the times. Thus if a circle be drawn upon the line and divided
into thirty-two parts of equal angular value, the sines of these angles may be taken as the
ordinates and the absolute distance or length of arc of the angle will give the abscissas.

Synonyms--Sine Curve--Sinusoidal Curve--Harmonic Curve.

Fig. 127. CURVE OF SINES.

174   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Curve of Saturation of the Magnetic Circuit. A characteristic curve whose ordinates may represent
the number of magnetic lines of force induced in a magnetic circuit, and whose abscissas may
represent the ampere turns of excitation or other representative of the inducing force.

Curve of Torque. A characteristic curve showing the relations between torque, q. v., and current
in a dynamo or motor.

Curve, Permeability Temperature. A characteristic curve expressing the changes in permeability
of a paramagnetic substance as the temperature changes. The degrees of temperature may be abscissas,
and the permeabilities corresponding thereto ordinates of the curve.

Cut In. v. To connect any electric appliance, mechanism or conductor, into a circuit.

Cut Out. v. The reverse of to cut in; to remove from a circuit any conducting device, and sometimes
so arranged as to leave the circuit completed in some other way.

Cut Out. An appliance for removing any apparatus from an electric circuit, so that no more
current shall pass through such apparatus, and sometimes providing means for closing the circuit
so as to leave it complete after the removal of the apparatus.

175    STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Cut Out, Automatic. (a) A mechanism for automatically shunting an arc or other lamp when it
ceases to work properly. It is generally worked by an electro-magnet of high resistance placed
in parallel with the arc. If the arc grows too long the magnet attracts its armature, thereby
completing a shunt of approximately the resistance of the arc, and which replaces it until
the carbons approach again to within a proper distance. Sometimes a strip or wire of fusible
metal is arranged in shunt with the arc. When the arc lengthens the current through the wire
increases, melts it and a spring is released which acts to complete or close a shunt circuit
of approximately arc-resistance.

(b) See Safety Device--Safety Fuse.

(c) See below.

Cut-out, Magnetic. A magnetic cut-out is essentially a coil of wire with attracted core or
armature. When the coil is not excited the core, by pressing down a strip of metal or by some
analogous arrangement, completes the circuit. When the current exceeds a certain strength the
core rises as it is attracted and the circuit is opened.

Cut-out, Safety. A block of porcelain or other base carrying a safety fuse, which melts and
breaks the circuit before the wire connected to it is dangerously heated.

Synonyms--Fuse Block--Safety Catch--Safety Fuse.

Cut Out, Wedge. A cut out operated by a wedge. The line terminals consist of a spring bearing
against a plate, the circuit being completed through their point of contact. A plug or wedge
composed of two metallic faces insulated from each other is adapted to wedge the contact open.
Terminals of a loop circuit are connected to the faces of the wedge. Thus on sliding it into
place, the loop circuit is brought into series in the main circuit.

Synonym--Plug Cut Out--Spring Jack.

Cutting of Lines of Force. A field of force is pictured as made up of lines of force; a conductor
swept through the field is pictured as cutting these lines. By so doing it produces potential
difference or electro-motive force in itself with a current, if the conductor is part of a
closed circuit.

Cycle of Alternation. A full period of alternation of an alternating current. It begins properly
at the zero line, goes to a maximum value in one sense and returns to zero, goes to maximum
in the other sense and returns to zero.

Cystoscopy. Examination of the human bladder by the introduction of a special incandescent
electric lamp. The method is due to Hitze.

176   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Damper. (a) A copper frame on which the wire in a galvanometer is sometimes coiled, which acts
to damp the oscillations of the needle.

(b) A tube of brass or copper placed between the primary and secondary coils of an induction
coil. It cuts off induction and diminishes the current and potential of the secondary circuit.
On pulling it out, the latter increases. It is used on medical coils to adjust their strength
of action.

Damping. Preventing the indicator of an instrument from oscillating in virtue of its own inertia
or elasticity. In a galvanometer it is defined as resistance to quick vibrations of the needle,
in consequence of which it is rapidly brought to rest when deflected (Ayrton). In dead-beat
galvanometers (see Galvanometer, Dead-Beat,) damping is desirable in order to bring the needle
to rest quickly; in ballistic galvanometers (see Galvanometer, Ballistic,) damping is avoided
in order to maintain the principle of the instrument. Damping may be mechanical, the frictional
resistance of air to an air-vane, or of a liquid to an immersed diaphragm or loosely fitting
piston, being employed. A dash-pot, q. v., is an example of the latter. It may be electro-magnetic.
A mass of metal near a swinging magnetic needle tends by induced currents to arrest the oscillations
thereof, and is used for this purpose in dead-beat galvanometers. This is termed, sometimes,
magnetic friction. The essence of damping is to develop resistance to movement in some ratio
proportional to velocity, so that no resistance is offered to the indicator slowly taking its
true position. (See Galvanometer, Dead-Beat.)

Dash-Pot. A cylinder and piston, the latter loosely fitting or perforated, or some equivalent
means being provided to permit movement. The cylinder may contain a liquid such as glycerine,
or air only. Thus the piston is perfectly free to move, but any oscillations are damped (see
Damping). In some arc lamps the carbon holder is connected to a dash-pot to check too sudden
movements of the carbon. The attachment may be either to the piston or to the cylinder. In
the Brush lamp the top of the carbon holder forms a cylinder containing glycerine, and in it
a loosely fitting piston works. This acts as a dash-pot.

Dead Beat. adj. Reaching its reading quickly; applied to instruments having a moving indicator,
which normally would oscillate back and forth a number of times before reaching its reading
were it not prevented by damping. (See Galvanometer, Aperiodic--Damping.)

Dead Earth. A fault in a telegraph line which consists in the wire being thoroughly grounded
or connected to the earth.

177  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dead Point of an Alternator. A two-phase alternator of the ordinary type connected as a motor
to another alternator cannot start itself, as it has dead points where the relations and polarity
of field and armature are such that there is no torque or turning power.

Dead-Turns. In the winding of an armature, a given percentage of the turns, it may be 80 per
cent., more or less, is assumed to be active; the other 20 per cent. or thereabouts, is called
dead-turns. This portion represents the wire on such portions of the armature as comes virtually
outside of the magnetic field. They are termed dead, as not concurring to the production of
electro-motive force.

Dead Wire. (a) The percentage or portion of wire on a dynamo or motor armature that does not
concur in the production of electromotive force. The dead-turns, q. v., of a drum armature
or the inside wire in a Gramme ring armature are dead wire.

(b) A disused and abandoned electric conductor, such as a telegraph wire.

(c) A wire in use, but through which, at the time of speaking, no current is passing.

Death, Electrical. Death resulting from electricity discharged through the animal system. The
exact conditions requisite for fatal results have not been determined. High electro-motive
force is absolutely essential; a changing current, pulsatory or alternating, is most fatal,
possibly because of the high electro-motive force of a portion of each period. Amperage probably
has something to do with it, although the total quantity in coulombs may be very small. As
applied to the execution of criminals, the victim is seated in a chair and strapped thereto.
One electrode with wet padded surface is placed against his head or some adjacent part. Another
electrode is placed against some of the lower parts, and a current from an alternating dynamo
passed for 15 seconds or more. The potential difference of the electrodes is given at 1,500
to 2,000 volts, but of course the maximum may be two or three times the measured amount, owing
to the character of the current.

Decalescence. The converse of recalescence, q. v. When a mass of steel is being heated as it
reaches the temperature of recalescence it suddenly absorbs a large amount of heat, apparently
growing cooler.

Deci. Prefix originally used in the metric system to signify one-tenth of, now extended to
general scientific units. Thus decimeter means one-tenth of a meter; decigram, one-tenth of a gram.

Declination, Angle of. The angle intercepted between the true meridian and the axis of a magnetic
needle at any place. The angle is measured to east or west, starting from the true meridian
as zero.

178   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Declination of the Magnetic Needle. The deviation of the magnetic needle from the plane of
the earth's meridian. It is also called the variation of the compass. (See Magnetic Elements.)

Decomposition. The reduction of a compound substance into its constituents, as in chemical
analysis. The constituents may themselves be compounds or proximate constituents, or may be
elemental or ultimate constituents.

Decomposition, Electrolytic. The decomposition or separation of a compound liquid into its
constituents by electrolysis. The liquid must be an electrolyte, q. v., and the decomposition
proceeds subject to the laws of electrolysis, q. v. See also Electrolytic Analysis.

Decrement. When a suspension needle which has been disturbed is oscillating the swings gradually
decrease in amplitude if there is any damping, as there always is. The decrement is the ratio
of the amplitude of one oscillation to the succeeding one. This ratio is the same for any successive
swings.

De-energize. To cut off its supply of electric energy from an electric motor, or any device
absorbing and worked by electric energy.

Deflagration. The explosive or violent volatilizing and dissipating of a substance by heat,
violent oxidation and similar means. It may be applied among other things to the destroying
of a conductor by an intense current, or the volatilization of any material by the electric arc.

Deflecting Field. The field produced in a galvanometer by the current which is being tested,
and which field deflects the needle, such deflection being the measure of the current strength.

Deflection. In magnetism the movement out of the plane of the magnetic meridian of a magnetic
needle, due to disturbance by or attraction towards a mass of iron or another magnet.

Deflection Method. The method of electrical measurements in which the deflection of the index
of the measuring instrument is used as the measure of the current or other element under examination.
It is the opposite of and is to be distinguished from the zero or null method, q. v. In the
latter conditions are established which make the index point to zero and from the conditions
necessary for this the measurement is deduced. The Wheatstone Bridge, q. v., illustrates a
zero method, the sine or the tangent compass, illustrates a deflection method. The use of deflection
methods involves calibration, q. v., and the commercial measuring instruments, such as ammeters
and volt meters, which are frequently calibrated galvanometers, are also examples of deflection
instruments.

179  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Degeneration, Reaction of. The diminished sensibility to electro-therapeutic treatment exhibited
by the human system with continuance of the treatment in question. The general lines of variation
are stated in works on the subject.

Deka. Prefix originally used in the metric system to signify multiplying by ten, as dekameter,
ten meters, dekagram, ten grams; now extended to many scientific terms.

De la Rive's Floating Battery. A small galvanic couple, immersed in a little floating cell
and connected through a coil of wire immediately above them. When the exciting battery solution
is placed in the cell the whole, as it floats in a larger vessel, turns until the coil lies
at right angles to the magnetic needle. Sometimes the two plates are thrust through a cork
and floated thus in a vessel of dilute sulphuric acid.

A magnet acts to attract or repel the coil in obedience to Ampére's Theory, (See Magnetism,
Ampere's Theory of.)

Delaurier's Solution.
A solution for batteries of the Bunsen and Grenet type. It is of the
following composition:
  Water,                2,000 parts;
  potassium bichromate,   184 parts;
  sulphuric acid,         428 parts.

Demagnetization. Removal of magnetism from a paramagnetic substance. It is principally used
for watches which have become magnetized by exposure to the magnetic field surrounding dynamos
or motors.

The general principles of most methods are to rotate the object, as a watch, in a strong field,
and while it is rotating to gradually remove it from the field, or to gradually reduce the
intensity of the field itself to zero. A conical coil of wire within which the field is produced
in which the watch is placed is sometimes used, the idea being that the field within such a
coil is strongest at its base. Such a coil supplied by an alternating current is found effectual
(J. J. Wright).

If a magnetized watch is made to turn rapidly at the end of a twisted string and is gradually
brought near to and withdrawn from the poles of a powerful dynamo it may be considerably improved.

A hollow coil of wire connected with a pole changer and dip-battery has been used. The battery
creates a strong field within the coil. The watch is placed there and the pole changer is worked
so as to reverse the polarity of the field very frequently. By the same action of the pole
changer the plates of the battery are gradually withdrawn from the solution so as to gradually
reduce the magnetic field to zero while constantly reversing its polarity. (G. M. Hopkins.)

Steel may be demagnetized by jarring when held out of the magnetic meridian, or by heating
to redness.

180   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Density, Electric Superficial. The relative quantity of electricity residing as an electric
charge upon a unit area of surface. It may be positive or negative.

Synonyms--Density of Charge--Surface Density.

Dental Mallet, Electric. A dentist's instrument for hammering the fillings as inserted into
teeth. It is a little hammer held in a suitable handle, and which is made to strike a rapid
succession of blows by electro-magnetic motor mechanism.

Depolarization. (a) The removal of permanent magnetism. (See Demagnetization.)

(b) The prevention of the polarization of a galvanic cell. It is effected in the Grove battery
by the reduction of nitric acid; in the Bunsen, by the reduction of chromic acid; in the Smee
battery, mechanically, by the platinum coated or rather platinized negative plate. Other examples
will be found under the description of various cells and batteries. A fluid which depolarizes
is termed a depolarizer or depolarizing fluid or solution. (See Electropoion Fluid.)

Deposit, Electrolytic. The metal or other substance precipitated by the action of a battery
or other current generator.

Derivation, Point of. A point where a circuit branches or divides into two or more leads. The
separate branches then receive derived or partial currents.

Desk Push. A press or push button, with small flush rim, for setting into the woodwork of a desk.

Detector. A portable galvanometer, often of simple construction, used for rough or approximate
work.

Detector, Lineman's. A portable galvanometer with a high and a low resistance actuating coil,
constructed for the use of linemen and telegraph constructors when in the field, and actually
putting up, repairing or testing lines.

Deviation, Quadrantal. Deviation of the compass in iron or steel ships due to the magnetization
of horizontal beams by the earth's induction. The effect of this deviation disappears when
the ship is in the plane of the electric meridian, or at right angles thereto; its name is
taken from the fact that a swing of the ship through a quadrant brings the needle from zero
deviation to a maximum and back to zero.

181  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Deviation, Semicircular. Deviation of the compass in iron or steel ships due to vertical induction.
(See Induction, Vertical.) The effect of this induction disappears when the ship is in the
electric meridian. Its name is derived from the fact that a swing of the ship through half
the circle brings the needle from zero deviation to a maximum and back to zero.

Dextrotorsal. adj. Wound in the direction or sense of a right-handed screw; the reverse of
sinistrotorsal, q. v.

Fig. 128. DEXTROTORSAL HELIX.

Diacritical. adj. (a) The number of ampere turns, q. v., required to bring an iron core to
one half its magnetic saturation, q. v., is termed the diacritical number.

(b) The diacritical point of magnetic saturation is proposed by Sylvanus P. Thompson as a term
for the coefficient of magnetic saturation which gives a magnet core one-half its maximum magnetization.

Diagnosis, Electro. A medical diagnosis of a patient's condition based on the action of different
parts of the body under electric excitement.

Diamagnetic. adj. Possessing a negative coefficient of magnetic susceptibility; having permeability
inferior to that of air. Such substances placed between the poles of a magnet are repelled;
if in the form of bars, they tend to turn so as to have their long axis at right angles to
the line joining the poles. The reason is that the lines of force always seek the easiest path,
and these bodies having higher reluctance than air, impede the lines of force, and hence are
as far as possible pushed out of the way. The above is the simplest explanation of a not well
understood set of phenomena. According to Tyndall, "the diamagnetic force is a polar force,
the polarity of diamagnetic bodies being opposed to that of paramagnetic ones under the same
conditions of excitement." Bismuth is the most strongly diamagnetic body known; phosphorus,
antimony, zinc, and many others are diamagnetic. (See Paramagnetic.)

182   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Diagometer. An apparatus for use in chemical analysis for testing the purity of substances
by the time required for a charged surface to be discharged through them to earth. It is the
invention of Rousseau.

An electrometer is charged with a dry pile. One of its terminals is connected with one surface
of the solution or substance to be tested, and the other with the other surface. The time of
discharge gives the index of the purity of the substance.

Diamagnetic Polarity. Treating diamagnetism as due to a polar force, the polarity of a diamagnetic
body is the reverse of the polarity of iron or other paramagnetic bodies. A bar-shaped diamagnetic
body in a field of force tends to place itself at right angles to the lines of force.

Diamagnetism. (a) The science or study of diamagnetic substances and phenomena.

(b) The magnetic property of a diamagnetic substance.

Diameter of Commutation. The points on the commutator of a closed circuit ring--or drum--armature,
which the brushes touch, and whence they take the current, mark the extremities of the diameter
of commutation. Were it not for the lag this would be the diameter at right angles to the line
connecting the centers of the opposite faces of the field. It is always a little to one side
of this position, being displaced in the direction of rotation. In open circuit armatures the
brushes are placed on the diameter at right angles to this one, and sometimes the term diameter
of commutation is applied to it. All that has been said is on the supposition that the armature
divisions correspond not only in connection but in position with those of the armature coils.
Of course, the commutator could be twisted so as to bring the diameter of commutation into
any position desired.

Diapason, Electric. A tuning-fork or diapason kept in vibration by electricity. In general
principle the ends of the fork act as armatures for an electro-magnet, and in their motion
by a mercury cup or other form of contact they make and break the circuit as they vibrate.
Thus the magnet alternately attracts and releases the leg, in exact harmony with its natural
period of vibration.

Diaphragm. (a) In telephones and microphones a disc of iron thrown into motion by sound waves
or by electric impulses, according to whether it acts as the diaphragm of a transmitter or
receiver. It is generally a plate of japanned iron such as used in making ferrotype photographs.
(See Telephone and Microphone.)

(b) A porous diaphragm is often used in electric decomposition cells and in batteries. The
porous cup represents the latter use.

183  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dielectric. A non-conductor; a substance, the different parts of which may, after an electric
disturbance, remain, without any process of readjustment, and for an indefinite period of time,
at potentials differing to any extent (Daniell). There is no perfect dielectric. The term dielectric
is generally only used when an insulator acts to permit induction to take place through it,
like the glass of a Leyden jar.

Dielectric Constant. The number or coefficient expressing the relative dielectric capacity
of a medium or substance. (See Capacity, Specific Inductive.)

Dielectric, Energy of. In a condenser, the conducting coatings are merely to conduct the current
all over the surface they cover; the keeping the electricities separated is the work of the
dielectric, and represents potential energy which appears in the discharge. The amount of energy
is proportional to the charge, and to the potential difference. As any electrified body implies
an opposite electrification somewhere, and a separating dielectric, the existence of a condenser
is always implied.

Dielectric Polarization. A term due to Faraday. It expresses what he conceived to be the condition
of a dielectric when its opposite faces are oppositely electrified. The molecules are supposed
to be arranged by the electrification in a series of polar chains, possibly being originally
in themselves seats of opposite polarities, or having such imparted to them by the electricities.
The action is analogous to that of a magnet pole on a mass of soft iron, or on a pile of iron
filings.

Dielectric Strain. The strain a solid dielectric is subjected to, when its opposite surfaces
are electrified. A Leyden jar dilates under the strain, and when discharged gives a dull sound.
The original condition is not immediately recovered. Jarring, shaking, etc., assist the recovery
from strain. The cause of the strain is termed Electric Stress. (See Stress, Electric.) This
is identical with the phenomenon of residual charge. (See Charge, Residual.) Each loss of charge
is accompanied with a proportional return of the dielectric towards its normal condition.

Dielectric Resistance. The mechanical resistance a body offers to perforation or destruction
by the electric discharge.

Dielectric Strength. The resistance to the disruptive discharge and depending on its mechanical
resistance largely or entirely. It is expressible in volts per centimeter thickness. Dry air
requires 40,000 volts per centimeter for a discharge.

184   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Differential Winding Working. A method of working an electro-magnet intermittently, so as to
avoid sparking. The magnet is wound with two coils. One is connected straight into the circuit,
the other is connected in parallel therewith with a switch inserted. The coils are so connected
that when the switch is closed the two are in opposition, the current going through them in
opposite senses. Thus one overcomes the effect of the other and the magnet core shows no magnetism,
provided the two coils are of equal resistance and equal number of convolutions or turns.

Fig. 129. DIFFERENTIAL WINDING WORKING OF ELECTRO-MAGNETIC APPARATUS.

Diffusion. A term properly applied to the varying current density found in conductors of unequal
cross sectional area. In electro-therapeutics it is applied to the distribution of current
as it passes through the human body. Its density per cross-sectional area varies with the area
and with the other factors.

Diffusion Creep. When electrodes of an active circuit are immersed in a solution of an electrolyte,
a current passes electrolytically if there is a sufficient potential difference. The current
passes through all parts of the solution, spreading out of the direct prism connecting or defined
by the electrodes. To this portion of the current the above term is applied. If the electrodes
are small enough in proportion to the distance between them the current transmission or creep
outside of the line becomes the principal conveyor of the current so that the resistance remains
the same for all distances.

Dimensions and Theory of Dimensions. The expression of the unitary value of a physical quantity
in one or more of the units of length (L), time (T) and mass (M) is termed the dimensions of
such quantity. Thus the dimension or dimensions of a distance is simply L; of an angle, expressible
by dividing the arc by the radius is L/L; of a velocity, expressible by distance divided by
time--L/T; of acceleration, which is velocity acquired in a unit of time, and is therefore
expressible by velocity divided by time--L/T/T or L/T2; of momentum, which is the product of
mass into velocity--M*L/T; of kinetic energy taken as the product of mass into the square of
velocity--M*(L2/T2); of potential energy taken as the product of mass into acceleration into
space-M*(L/T2)*L reducing to M*(L2/T2). The theory is based on three fundamental units and
embraces all electric quantities. The simple units generally taken are the gram, centimeter
and second and the dimensions of the fundamental compound units are expressed in terms of these
three, forming the centimeter-gram-second or C. G. S. system of units. Unless otherwise expressed
or implied the letters L, M and T, may be taken to indicate centimeter, gram and second respectively.
It is obvious that very complicated expressions of dimensions may be built up, and that a mathematical
expression of unnamed quantities may be arrived at. Dimensions in their application by these
symbols are subject to the laws of algebra. They were invented by Fourier and were brought
into prominence by J. Clerk Maxwell. Another excellent definition reads as follows: "By the
dimensions of a physical quantity we mean the quantities and powers of quantities, involved
in the measurement of it." (W. T. A. Emtage.)

185  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dimmer. An adjustable choking coil used for regulating the intensity of electric incandescent
lights. Some operate by the introduction and withdrawal of an iron core as described for the
choking coil (see Coil, Choking), others by a damper of copper, often a copper ring surrounding
the coil and which by moving on or off the coil changes the potential of the secondary circuit.

Dip of Magnetic Needle. The inclination of the magnetic needle. (See Elements, Magnetic.)

Dipping. (a) Acid or other cleaning processes applied by dipping metals in cleaning or pickling
solutions before plating in the electroplater's bath.

(b) Plating by dipping applies to electroplating without a battery by simple immersion. Copper
is deposited on iron from a solution of copper sulphate in this way.

Synonym--Simple Immersion.

Dipping Needle. A magnet mounted in horizontal bearings at its centre of gravity. Placed in
the magnetic meridian it takes the direction of the magnetic lines of force of the earth at
that point. It is acted on by the vertical component of the earth's magnetism, as it has no
freedom of horizontal movement. (See Magnetic Elements, and Compass, Inclination.)

Directing Magnet. In a reflecting galvanometer the magnet used for controlling the magnetic
needle by establishing a field. It is mounted on the spindle of the instrument above the coil
and needle.

Synonym--Controlling Magnet.

186   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Direction. (a) The direction of an electric current is assumed to be from a positively charged
electrode or terminal to a negatively charged one in the outer circuit. (See Current.)

(b) The direction of magnetic and electro-magnetic lines of force is assumed to be from north
to south pole of a magnet in the outer circuit. It is sometimes called the positive direction.
Their general course is shown in the cuts diagrammatically. The circles indicate a compass
used in tracing their course. The magnetic needle tends to place itself in the direction of
or tangential to the lines of force passing nearest it.

(c) The direction of electrostatic lines of force is assumed to be out of a positively charged
and to a negatively charged surface.

Fig. 130. DIRECTION OF LINES OF FORCE OF A PERMANENT MAGNET.

Fig. 131, DIRECTION OF LINES OF FORCE OF AN ELECTRO-MAGNET.

187   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Directive Power. In magnetism the power of maintaining itself in the plane of the magnetic
meridian, possessed by the magnetic needle.

Discharge, Brush. The static discharge of electricity into or through the air may be of the
brush or spark form. The brush indicates the escape of electricity in continuous flow; the
spark indicates discontinuity. The conditions necessary to the production of one or the other
refer to the nature of the conductor, and of other conductors in its vicinity and to the electro-motive
force or potential difference; small alterations may transform one into the other. The brush
resembles a luminous core whose apex touches the conductor. It is accompanied by a slight hissing
noise. Its luminosity is very feeble. The negative conductor gives a smaller brush than that
of the positive conductor and discharges it more readily. When electricity issues from a conductor,
remote from an oppositely excited one, it gives an absolutely silent discharge, showing at
the point of escape a pale blue luminosity called electric glow, or if it escapes from points
it shows a star-like centre of light. It can be seen in the dark by placing a point on the
excited conductor of a static-electric machine.

Synonyms--Silent Discharge--Glow Discharge.

Discharge, Conductive. A discharge of a static charge by conduction through a conductor.

Discharge, Convective. The discharge of static electricity from an excited conductor through
air or rarefied gas; it is also called the quiet or silent discharge. The luminous effect in
air or gas at atmospheric pressures takes the form of a little brush from a small positive
electrode; the negative shows a star. The phenomena of Gassiot's cascade, the philosopher's
egg and Geissler tubes, all of which may be referred to, are instances of convective discharge.

Discharge, Dead Beat. A discharge that is not oscillatory in character.

Discharge, Disruptive. A discharge of a static charge through a dielectric. It involves mechanical
perforation of the dielectric, and hence the mere mechanical strength of the latter has much
to do with preventing it. A disruptive discharge is often oscillatory in character; this is
always the case with the discharge of a Leyden jar.

188   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Discharge, Duration of. The problem of determining this factor has been attacked by various
observers. Wheatstone with his revolving mirror found it to be 1/24000 second. Fedderson, by
interposing resistance, prolonged it to 14/10000 and again to 138/10000 second. Lucas & Cazin
made it from 26 to 47 millionths of a second. All these experiments were performed with Leyden
jars.

Discharge, Impulsive. A disruptive discharge produced between conductors by suddenly produced
potential differences. The self-induction of the conductor plays an especially important part
in discharges thus produced.

Discharge, Lateral. (a) A lightning discharge, which sometimes takes place between a lightning
rod and the building on which it is.

(b) In the discharge of a Leyden jar or condenser the discharge which takes the alternative
path, q. v.

Discharge, Oscillatory. The sudden or disruptive discharge of a static condenser, such as a
Leyden jar, or of many other charged conductors, is oscillatory in character. The direction
of the currents rapidly changes, so that the discharge is really an alternating current of
excessively short total duration. The discharge sends electro-magnetic waves through the ether,
which are exactly analogous to those of light but of too long period to affect the eye.

Synonym--Surging Discharge.

Fig. 132. DISCHARGER.

Discharger. An apparatus for discharging Leyden jars. It consists of a conductor terminating
in balls, and either jointed like a tongs or bent with a spring-action, so that the balls can
be set at distances adapted to different sized jars. It has an insulating handle or a pair
of such. In use one ball is brought near to the coating and the other to the spindle ball of
the jar. When nearly or quite in contact the jar discharges.

Synonyms--Discharging Rod--Discharging Tongs.

189  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Discharger, Universal. An apparatus for exposing substances to the static discharge spark.
It consists of a base with three insulating posts. The central post carries an ivory table
to support the object. The two side posts carry conducting rods, terminating in metal balls,
and mounted with universal joints. A violent shock can be given to any object placed on the table.

Synonym--Henley's Universal Discharger.

Discharge, Silent. This term is sometimes applied to the glow or brush discharge and sometimes
to the condition of electric effluvium. (See Discharge, Brush--Effluvium, Electric.)

Discharge, Spark. The discontinuous discharge of high tension electricity through a dielectric
or into the air produces electric sparks. These are quite strongly luminous, of branching sinuous
shape, and in long sparks the luminosity varies in different parts of the same spark. A sharp
noise accompanies each spark. High density of charge is requisite for the formation of long sparks.

Disconnection. The separation of two parts of, or opening a circuit, as by turning a switch,
unscrewing a binding screw, or the like. The term is sometimes used to indicate a class of
faults in telegraph circuits. Disconnections may be total, partial or intermittent, and due
to many causes, such as open or partially replaced switches, oxidized or dirty contact points,
or loose joints.

Displacement, Electric. A conception of the action of charging a dielectric. The charge is
all on the surface. This fact being granted, the theory of displacement holds that charging
a body is the displacing of electricity, forcing it from the interior on to the surface, or
vice versa, producing a positive or negative charge by displacement of electricity. While displacement
is taking place in a dielectric there is assumed to be a movement or current of electricity
called a displacement current.

Disruptive Tension. When the surface of a body is electrified, it tends to expand, all portions
of the surface repelling each other. The film of air surrounding such a body is electrified
too, and is subjected to a disruptive tension, varying in intensity with the square of the density.

Dissimulated Electricity. The electricity of a bound charge. (See Charge, Bound.)

Dissociation. The separation of a chemical compound into its elements by a sufficiently high
degree of heat. All compounds are susceptible of dissociation, so that it follows that combustion
is impossible at high temperatures.

190   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Distance, Critical, of Alternative Path. The length of air gap in an alternative path whose
resistance joined to the impedance of the rest of the conductors of the path just balances
the impedance of the other path.

Distance, Sparking. The distance between electrodes, which a spark from a given Leyden jar
or other source will pass across.

Synonym--Explosive Distance.

Distillation. The evaporation of a liquid by heat, and sometimes in a vacuum, followed by condensation
of the vapors, which distil or drop from the end of the condenser. It is claimed that the process
is accelerated by the liquid being electrified.

Distributing Box. In an electric conduit system, a small iron box provided for giving access
to the cable for the purpose of making house and minor connections.

Synonym--Hand Hole.

Distributing Switches. Switch systems for enabling different dynamos to supply different lines
of a system as required. Spring jacks, q. v., are used for the lines, and plug switches for
the dynamo leads. Thus, dynamos can be thrown in or out as desired, without putting out the lights.

Distribution of Electric Energy, Systems of. The systems of electric current distribution from
central stations or from private generating plants, mechanical or battery, the latter primary
or secondary. They include in general the alternating current system and direct current systems.
Again, these may be subdivided into series and multiple arc, multiple-series and series-multiple
distribution, and the three, four, or five wire system may be applied to multiple arc or multiple
series systems. (See Alternating Current--Current System--Multiple Arc--Multiple Series--Series
Multiple--Three Wire System.)

Door Opener, Electric. An apparatus for opening a door by pushing back the latch. A spring
then draws the door open, and it is closed against the force of the spring by the person entering.
Electro-magnetic mechanism actuates the latch, and is operated by a switch or press-button.
Thus a person on the upper floor can open the hall door without descending.

Dosage, Galvanic. In electro-therapeutics the amount of electric current or discharge, and
duration of treatment given to patients.

Double Carbon Arc Lamp. An arc lamp designed to burn all night, usually constructed with two
parallel sets of carbons, one set replacing the other automatically, the current being switched
from the burnt out pair to the other by the action of the mechanism of the lamp.

191  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Double Fluid Theory. A theory of electricity. Electricity is conveniently treated as a fluid
or fluids. According to the double fluid hypothesis negative electricity is due to a preponderance
of negative fluid and vice versa. Like fluid repels like, and unlike attracts unlike; either
fluid is attracted by matter; the presence in a body of one or the other induces electrification;
united in equal proportions they neutralize each other, and friction, chemical decomposition
and other causes effect their separation. The hypothesis, while convenient, is overshadowed
by the certainty that electricity is not really a fluid at all. (See Single Fluid Theory--Fluid,
Electric.)

Synonym--Symmer's Theory.

Double Fluid Voltaic Cell. A cell in which two fluids are used, one generally as depolarizer
surrounding the negative plate, the other as excitant surrounding the positive plate. A porous
diaphragm or difference in specific gravities is used to keep the solutions separate and yet
permit the essential electrolytic diffusion. Grove's Cell, Bunsen's Cell, and Daniell's Cell,
all of which may be referred to, are of this type, as are many others.

Double Wedge. A plug for use with a spring-jack. It has connection strips at its end and another
pair a little distance back therefrom, so that it can make two loop connections at once.

Synonym--Double Plug.

Doubler. A continuously acting electrophorous, q.v.; an early predecessor of the modern electric
machines. It is now no longer used.

D. P. Abbreviation for Potential Difference.

Drag. The pull exercised by a magnetic field upon a conductor moving through it or upon the
motion of an armature in it.

Dreh-strom. (German) Rotatory currents; a system of currents alternating in periodic succession
of phases and producing a rotatory field. (See Field, Rotatory--Multiphase Currents.)

Drill Electric. A drill for metals or rock worked by an electro-magnetic motor. For metals
a rotary motion, for rocks a reciprocating or percussion action is imparted. It is used by
shipbuilders for drilling holes in plates which are in place in ships, as its flexible conductors
enable it to be placed anywhere. For rock-drilling a solenoid type of construction is adopted,
producing rapid percussion.

192   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Drip Loop. A looping downward of wires entering a building, so that rain water, as it runs
along the wire, will drip from the lowest part of the loop instead of following the wire into
or against the side of the building.

Driving Horns. Projections on the periphery of an armature of a dynamo for holding the winding
in place and preventing its displacement. Various arrangements have been adopted. They are
sometimes wedges or pins and are sometimes driven into spaces left in the drum core. The toothed
disc armature cores make up an armature in which the ridges formed by the teeth form practically
driving horns.

Dronier's Salt. A substance for solution for use in bichromate batteries. It is a mixture of
one-third potassium bichromate and two-thirds potassium bisulphate. It is dissolved in water
to make the exciting fluid.

Drop, Automatic. A switch or circuit breaker, operating to close a circuit by dropping under
the influence of gravity. It is held up by a latch, the circuit remaining open, until the latch
is released by a current passing through an electro-magnet. This attracting an armature lets
the drop fall. As it falls it closes a local or second circuit, and thus may keep a bell ringing
until it is replaced by hand. It is used in burglar alarms, its function being to keep a bell
ringing even though the windows or door by which entrance was made is reclosed.

193   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 133. THE MAGIC DRUM.

Drum, Electric. A drum with a mechanism within for striking the head with a hammer or some
equivalent method so as to be used as a piece of magical apparatus. In the one shown in the
cut a sort of telephone action is used to produce the sound, the electro-magnet D and armature
being quite screened from observation through the hole. (See Fig. 133) A ring, C, shown in
Fig. 133, with two terminals, the latter shown by the unshaded portions a a, and a suspending
hook E, also with two terminals, and two suspending conductors A, B, carry the current to the
magnet. A sudden opening or closing of the circuit produces a sound.

Dub's Laws. 1. The magnetism excited at any transverse section of a magnet is proportional
to the square root of the distance between the given section and the end.

2. The free magnetism at any given transverse section of a magnet is proportional to the difference
between the square root of half the length of the magnet and the square root of the distance
between the given section and the nearest end.

Duct. The tube or compartment in an electric subway for the reception of a cable. (See Conduit,
Electric Subway.)

Dyad. A chemical term; an element which in combination replaces two monovalent elements; one
which has two bonds or is bivalent.

Dyeing, Electric. The producing mordanting or other dyeing effects on goods in dyeing by the
passage of an electric current.

Dynamic Electricity. Electricity of relatively low potential and large quantity; current electricity
as distinguished from static electricity; electricity in motion.

194   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamo, Alternating Current. A dynamo-electric machine for producing an alternating current;
an alternator. They are classified by S. P. Thompson into three classes--I. Those with stationary
field-magnet and rotating armature. II. Those with rotating field magnet and stationary armature.
III. Those with both field magnet part and armature part stationary, the amount of magnetic
induction from the latter through the former being caused to vary or alternate in direction
by the revolution of appropriate pieces of iron, called inductors. Another division rests on
whether they give one simple alternating current, a two phase current, or whether they give
multi phase currents. (See Current, Alternating--Currents, Multiphase.)

A great many kinds of alternators have been constructed. Only an outline of the general theory
can be given here. They are generally multipolar, with north and south poles alternating around
the field. The armature coils, equal in number in simple current machines, to the poles, are
wound in opposite senses, so that the current shall be in one direction, though in opposite
senses, in all of them at anyone time. As the armature rotates the coils are all approaching
their poles at one time and a current in one sense is induced in every second coil, and one
in the other sense in the other coils. They are all in continuous circuit with two open terminals,
each connected to its own insulated connecting ring on the shaft. As the coils pass the poles
and begin to recede from them the direction changes, and the current goes in the other direction
until the next poles are reached and passed. Thus there are as many changes of direction of
current per rotation as there are coils in the armature or poles in the field.

Fig. 134. ALTERNATING CURRENT DYNAMO WITH SEPARATE EXCITER MOUNTED ON MAIN SHAFT.

195  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The field-magnets whose windings may be in series are often excited by a separate direct current
generation. Some are self-exciting, one or more of the armature coils being separated from
the rest, and connected to a special commutator, which rectifies its current.

By properly spacing the coils with respect to the poles of the field, and connecting each set
of coils by itself to separate connecting rings, several currents can be taken from the same
machine, which currents shall have a constant difference in phase. It would seem at first sight
that the same result could be attained by using as many separate alternators as there were
currents to be produced. But it would be almost impossible to preserve the exact relation of
currents and current phase where each was produced by its own machine. The currents would overrun
each other or would lag behind. In a single machine with separate sets of coils the relation
is fixed and invariable.

Fig. I35. DIAGRAM OF ARRANGEMENT OF ARMATURE COILS AND COLLECTING RINGS IN AN ALTERNATING CURRENT
DYNAMO.

Dynamo, Alternating Current, Regulation of. Transformers, converters, or induction coils are
used to regulate alternating current dynamos, somewhat as compound winding is applied in the
case of direct-current dynamos. The arrangement consists in connecting the primary of an induction
coil or transformer into the external circuit with its secondary connected to the field circuit.
Thus the transformer conveys current to the field picked up from the main circuit, and represents
to some extent the shunt of a direct-current machine.

Dynamo, Commercial Efficiency of. The coefficient, q. v., obtained by dividing the mechanically
useful or available work of a dynamo by the mechanical energy absorbed by it. This only includes
the energy available in the outer circuit, for doing useful work.

196   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 136. COMPOUND WOUND DYNAMO.

Dynamo. Compound. A compound wound dynamo; one which has two coils on its field magnet; one
winding is in series with the external circuit and armature; the other winding is in parallel
with the armature winding, or else with the armature winding and field winding, both in series.
(See Winding, Long Shunt--Winding, Short Shunt.)

Such a dynamo is, to a certain extent, self-regulating, the two coils counteracting each other,
and bringing about a more regular action for varying currents than that of the ordinary shunt
or series dynamo.

The extent of the regulation of such a machine depends on the proportions given its different
parts. However good the self-regulating may be in a compound wound machine, it can only be
perfect at one particular speed.

To illustrate the principle on which the approximate regulation is obtained the characteristic
curve diagram may be consulted.

Fig. 137. CURVES OF SERIES AND SHUNT WINDINGS SUPERIMPOSED.

One curve is the curve of a series winding, the other that of a shunt winding, and shows the
variation of voltage in each with resistance in the external or working circuit. The variation
is opposite in each case. It is evident that the two windings could be so proportioned on a
compound machine that the resultant of the two curves would be a straight line. This regulation
would then be perfect and automatic, but only for the one speed.

197  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamo, Direct Current. A dynamo giving a current of unvarying direction, as distinguished
from an alternator or alternating current dynamo.

Dynamo, Disc. A dynamo with a disc armature, such as Pacinotti's disc, q. v. (See also Disc,
Armature.) The field magnets are disposed so that the disc rotates close to their poles, and
the poles face or are opposite to the side or sides of the disc. The active leads of wire are
those situated on the face or faces of the disc.

Fig. 138. POLECHKO'S DISC DYNAMO.

Dynamo-electric Machine. A machine driven by power, generally steam power, and converting the
mechanical energy expended on driving it into electrical energy of the current form. The parts
of the ordinary dynamo may be summarized as follows: First, A circuit as complete as possible
of iron. Such circuit is composed partly of the cores of an electro-magnet or of several electro-magnets,
and partly of the cylindrical or ring-shaped core of an armature which fits as closely as practicable
between the magnet ends or poles which are shaped so as to partly embrace it. Second, of coils
of insulated wire wound upon the field-magnet cores. When these coils are excited the field-magnets
develop polarity and the circuit just spoken of becomes a magnetic circuit, interrupted only
by the air gaps between the poles and armatures. Thirdly, of coils of insulated wire upon the
armature core. These coils when rotated in the magnetic field cut magnetic lines of force and
develop electro-motive force.

198   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fourthly, of collecting mechanism, the commutator in direct current dynamos, attached to the
armature shaft and rotating with it. This consists of insulated rings, or segments of rings
to which the wire coils of the armature are connected, and on which two springs of copper or
plates of carbon or some other conductor presses. The electro-motive force developed by the
cutting of lines of force, by the wires of the armature, shows itself as potential difference
between the two springs. If the ends of a conductor are attached, one to each of these brushes,
the potential difference will establish a current through the wire. By using properly divided
and connected segments on the commutator the potential difference and consequent direction
of the current may be kept always in the same sense or direction. It is now clear that the
external wire may be connected with the windings of the field-magnet. In such case the excitement
of the field-magnets is derived from the armature and the machine is self-excited and entirely
self-contained.

The above is a general description of a dynamo. Sometimes the coils of the field-magnets are
not connected with the armature, but derive their current from an outside source. Such are
termed separately excited dynamos.

Some general features of dynamo generators may be seen in the definitions under this head and
elsewhere. The general conception is to cut lines of force with a conductor and thus generate
electromotive force, or in some way to change the number of lines of force within a loop or
circuit with the same effect.

Dynamo, Electroplating. A dynamo designed for low potential and high current intensity. They
are wound for low resistance, frequently several wires being used in parallel, or ribbon, bar
or rectangular conductors being employed. They are of the direct current type. They should
be shunt wound or they are liable to reverse. They are sometimes provided with resistance in
the shunt, which is changed as desired to alter the electro-motive force.

Dynamo, Equalizing. A combination for three and five-wire systems. A number of armatures or
of windings on the same shaft are connected across the leads. If the potential drops at any
pair of mains, the armature will begin to be driven by the other mains, acting to an extent
as an element of a motor, and will raise the potential in the first pair.

Dynamo, Far Leading. A motor dynamo, used to compensate the drop of potential in long mains.
Into the mains at a distant point a series motor is connected, driving a dynamo placed in shunt
across the mains. The dynamo thus driven raises the potential difference between the two mains.

199  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamograph. A printing telegraph in which the message is printed at both transmitting and
receiving ends.

Dynamo, Inductor. A generator in which the armature or current-generating windings are all
comprised upon the poles of the field magnets. Masses of iron, which should be laminated and
are the inductors, are carried past the field magnet poles concentrating in their passage the
lines of force, thus inducing currents in the coils. In one construction shown in the cut the
field magnets a, a .. are U shaped and are arranged in a circle, their poles pointing inwards.
A single exciting coil c, c ... is wound around the circle in the bend of the V-shaped segments.
The poles carry the armature coils e, e ... The laminated inductors i, i ... are mounted on
a shaft S, by spiders h, to be rotated inside the circle of magnets, thus generating an alternating
current.

Synonym--Inductor Generator.

Fig. 139. INDUCTOR DYNAMO.

Dynamo, Interior Pole. A dynamo with a ring armature, with field magnet pole pieces which extend
within the ring.

200   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamo, Iron Clad. A dynamo in which the iron of the field magnet is of such shape as to enclose
the field magnet coils as well as the armature.

Dynamometer. A device or apparatus for measuring force applied, or rate of expenditure of energy
by, or work done in a given time by a machine. A common spring balance can be used as a force
dynamometer, viz: to determine how hard a man is pulling and the like. The steam engine indicator
represents an energy-dynamometer of the graphic type, the instrument marking an area whence,
with the aid of the fixed factors of the engine, the work done may be determined. Prony's Brake,
q. v., is a type of the friction dynamometer, also of the energy type. In the latter type during
the experiment the whole power must be turned on or be expended on the dynamometer.

Dynamo, Motor. A motor dynamo is a machine for (a) converting a continuous current at any voltage
to a continuous current of different strength at a different voltage or for (b) transforming
a continuous current into an alternating one, and vice versa.

For the first type see Transformer, Continuous Current; for the second type see Transformer,
Alternating Current.

Dynamo, Multipolar. A dynamo having a number of field magnet poles, not merely a single north
and a single south pole. The field magnet is sometimes of a generally circular shape with the
poles arranged radially within it, the armature revolving between the ends.

Dynamo, Non-polar. A name given by Prof. George Forbes to a dynamo invented by him. In it a
cylinder of iron rotates within a perfectly self-contained iron-clad field magnet. The current
is taken off by brushes bearing near the periphery, at two extremities of a diameter. A machine
with a disc 18 inches in diameter was said to give 3,117 amperes, with 5.8 volts E. M. F. running
at 1,500 revolutions per second. The E. M. F. of such machines varies with the square of the
diameter of the disc or cylinder.

Dynamo, Open Coil. A dynamo the windings of whose armatures may be grouped in coils, which
are not connected in series, but which have independent terminals. These terminals are separate
divisions of the commutator and so spaced that the collecting brushes touch each pair belonging
to the same coil simultaneously. As the brushes come in contact with the sections forming the
terminals they take current from the coil in question. This coil is next succeeded by another
one, and so on according to the number of coils employed.

Dynamo, Ring. A dynamo the base of whose field magnets is a ring in general shape, or perhaps
an octagon, and with poles projecting inwardly therefrom.

201   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamo, Coupling of. Dynamos can be coupled exactly like batteries and with about the same
general results. An instance of series coupling would be given by the dynamos in the three
wire system when no current is passing through the neutral wire, and when the lamps on each
side of it are lighted in equal number.

Dynamo, Self-exciting. A dynamo which excites its own field. The majority of dynamos are of
this construction. Others, especially alternating current machines, are separately excited,
the field magnets being supplied with current from a separate dynamo or current generator.

Dynamo, Separate Circuit. A dynamo in which the field magnet coils are entirely disconnected
from the main circuit, and in which current for the field is supplied by special coils carried
for the purpose by the same armature, or by a special one, in either case a special commutator
being provided to collect the current.

Dynamo, Separately Excited. A dynamo whose field magnets are excited by a separate current
generator, such as a dynamo or even a battery. Alternating current dynamos are often of this
construction. Direct current dynamos are not generally so. The term is the opposite of self-exciting.

Fig. 140. SERIES DYNAMO.

Dynamo, Series. A dynamo whose armature, field winding, and external circuit are all in series.

In such a dynamo short circuiting or lowering the resistance of the external circuit strengthens
the field, increases the electro-motive force and current strength and may injure the winding
by heating the wire, and melting the insulation.

202   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dynamo, Shunt. A dynamo whose field is wound in shunt with the external circuit. Two leads
are taken from the brushes; one goes around the field magnets to excite them; the other is
the external circuit.

In such a dynamo the lowering of resistance on the outer circuit takes current from the field
and lowers the electro-motive force of the machine. Short circuiting has no heating effect.

Fig. 141.   SHUNT DYNAMO.

Dynamo, Single Coil. A dynamo whose field magnet is excited by a single coil. Several such
have been constructed, with different shapes of field magnet cores, in order to obtain a proper
distribution of poles.

Dynamo, Tuning Fork. A dynamo in which the inductive or armature coils were carried at the
ends of the prongs of a gigantic tuning fork, and were there maintained in vibration opposite
the field magnets. It was invented by T. A. Edison, but never was used.

Dynamo, Uni-polar. A dynamo in which the rotation of a conductor effects a continuous increase
in the number of lines cut, by the device of arranging one part of the conductor to slide on
or around the magnet. (S. P. Thomson.) Faraday's disc is the earliest machine of this type.

203  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Dyne. The C. G. S. or fundamental unit of force. It is the force which can impart an acceleration
of one centimeter per second to a mass of one gram in one second. It is equal to about 1/981
the weight of a gram, this weight varying with the latitude.

Earth. (a) The earth is arbitrarily taken as of zero electrostatic potential. Surfaces in such
condition that their potential is unchanged when connected to the earth are said to be of zero
potential. All other surfaces are discharged when connected to the earth, whose potential,
for the purposes of man at least, never changes.

(b) As a magnetic field of force the intensity of the earth's field is about one-half a line
of force per square centimeter.

(c) The accidental grounding of a telegraph line is termed an earth, as a dead, total, partial,
or intermittent earth, describing the extent and character of the trouble.

Earth, Dead. A fault, when a telegraph or other conductor is fully connected to earth or grounded
at some intermediate point.

Synonyms--Solid Earth--Total Earth.

Earth, Partial. A fault, when a telegraph or other conductor is imperfectly connected to earth
or grounded at some intermediate point.

Earth Plate. A plate buried in the earth to receive the ends of telegraph lines or other circuits
to give a ground, q. v. A copper plate is often used. A connection to a water or gas main gives
an excellent ground, far better than any plate. When the plate oxidizes it is apt to introduce
resistance.

Earth Return. The grounding of a wire of a circuit at both ends gives the circuit an earth return.

Earth, Swinging. A fault, when a telegraph or other conductor makes intermittent connection
with the earth. It is generally attributable to wind action swinging the wire, whence the name.

Ebonite. Hard vulcanized India rubber, black in color. Specific resistance in ohms per cubic
centimeter at 46º C. (115º F.): 34E15 (Ayrton); specific inductive capacity, (air = 1): 2.56
(Wüllner); 2.76 (Schiller); 3.15 (Boltzmann). It is used in electrical apparatus for supporting
members such as pillars, and is an excellent material for frictional generation of potential.
Its black color gives it its name, and is sometimes made a point of distinction from Vulcanite,
q. v.

204   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Economic Coefficient. The coefficient of electric efficiency. (See Efficiency, Electric.)

Edison Effect. A continuous discharge resulting in a true current which takes place between
a terminal of an incandescent lamp filament and a plate placed near it. The lamp must be run
at a definitely high voltage to obtain it.

Ediswan. An abbreviation for Edison-Swan; the trade name of the incandescent lamp used in Great
Britain, and of other incandescent system apparatus.

Fig. 142. GYMNOTUS ELECTRICUS.

Eel, Electric (Gymnotus Electricus). An eel capable of effecting the discharge of very high
potential electricity, giving painful or dangerous shocks. Its habitat is the fresh water,
in South America. Faraday investigated it and estimated its shock as equal to that from fifteen
Leyden jars, each of 1.66 square feet of coating. (See Animal Electricity and Ray, Electric.)

Effect, Counter-inductive. A counter-electro-motive force due to induction, and opposing a current.

Efficiency. The relation of work done to energy absorbed. A theoretically perfect machine would
have the maximum efficiency in which the two qualities named would be equal to each other.
Expressed by a coefficient, q. v., the efficiency in such case would be equal to 1. If a machine
produced but half the work represented by the energy it absorbed, the rest disappearing in
wasteful expenditure, in heating the bearings, in overcoming the resistance of the air and
in other ways, its efficiency would be expressed by the coefficient 1/2 or .5, or if one hundred
was the basis, by fifty per centum. There are a number of kinds of efficiencies of an electric
generator which are given below.

Efficiency, Commercial. Practical efficiency of a machine, obtained by dividing the available
output of work or energy of a machine by the energy absorbed by the same machine. Thus in a
dynamo part of the energy is usefully expended in exciting the field magnet, but this energy
is not available for use in the outer circuit, is not a part of the output, and is not part
of the dividend.

If M represents the energy absorbed, and W the useful or available energy, the coefficient
of commercial efficiency is equal to W/M. M is made up of available, unavailable and wasted
(by Foucault currents, etc.,) energy. Calling available energy W, unavailable but utilized
energy w, and wasted energy m, the expression for the coefficient of commercial efficiency becomes

  W / ( W + w + m )
  when M = W + w + m

Synonym--Net efficiency.

205   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Efficiency, Electrical. In a dynamo or generator the relation of total electric energy produced,
both wasted and useful or available to the useful or available electrical energy. If we call
W the useful electric and w the wasted electric energy, the coefficient of electrical efficiency
is equal to

  W / ( W + w )

Synonyms--Intrinsic Efficiency--Economic Coefficient--Coefficient of Electrical Efficiency.

Efficiency of Conversion. In a dynamo or generator the relation of energy absorbed to total
electric energy produced. Part of the electric energy is expended in producing the field and
in other ways. Thus a generator with high efficiency of conversion may be a very poor one,
owing to the unavailable electric energy which it produces. The coefficient of Efficiency of
Conversion is obtained by dividing the total electric energy produced by the energy absorbed
in working the dynamo. If M represents the energy absorbed, or work done in driving the dynamo
or generator, W the useful electric, and w the wasted electrical energy, then the coefficient
of efficiency of conversion is equal to

(W + w ) / M

In the quantity M are included besides available (W) and unavailable (w) electric energy, the
totally wasted energy due to Foucault currents, etc., calling the latter m, the above formula
may be given

( W+ w ) / (W + w + m )

This coefficient may refer to the action of a converter, q. v., in the alternating system.
Synonym--Gross Efficiency.

Efficiency of Secondary Battery, Quantity. The coefficient obtained by dividing the ampere-hours
obtainable from a secondary battery by the ampere hours required to charge it.

Efficiency of Secondary Battery, Real. The coefficient obtained by dividing the energy obtainable
from a secondary battery by the energy absorbed in charging it. The energy is conveniently
taken in watt-hours and includes the consideration of the spurious voltage. (See Battery, Secondary.)

206   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Efflorescence. The appearance of a dry salt upon the walls of a vessel containing a solution
above the normal water-line from evaporation of a liquid. It appears in battery jars and in
battery carbons, in the latter interfering with the electrical connections, and oxidizing or
rusting them. (See Creeping.)

Effluvium, Electric. When a gas is made to occupy the position of dielectric between two oppositely
electrified surfaces a peculiar strain or condition of the dielectric is produced, which promotes
chemical change. The condition is termed electrical effluvium or the silent discharge. By an
apparatus specially constructed to utilize the condition large amounts of ozone are produced.

Synonym--Silent Discharge.

Elastic Curve. A crude expression for a curve without projections or sudden sinuosities; such
a curve as can be obtained by bending an elastic strip of wood.

Electrepeter. An obsolete name for a key, switch or pole changer of any kind.

Elasticity, Electric.
The phenomenon of the dielectric is described under this term. When a
potential difference is established between two parts of the dielectric,
a flow of electricity displacement current starts through the
dielectric, which current is due to the electric stress, but is
instantly arrested by what has been termed the electric elasticity of
the dielectric. This is expressed by
  ( electric stress ) / ( electric strain )
and in any substance is inversely proportional to the specific inductive
capacity.

Electricity. It is impossible in the existing state of human knowledge to give a satisfactory
definition of electricity. The views of various authorities are given here to afford a basis
for arriving at the general consensus of electricians.

We have as yet no conception of electricity apart from the electrified body; we have no experience
of its independent existence. (J. E. H. Gordon.)

What is Electricity? We do not know, and for practical purposes it is not necessary that we
should know. (Sydney F. Walker.)

Electricity … is one of those hidden and mysterious powers of nature which has thus become
known to us through the medium of effects. (Weale's Dictionary of Terms.)

This word Electricity is used to express more particularly the cause, which even today remains
unknown, of the phenomena that we are about to explain. (Amédée Guillemin.)

207  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electricity is a powerful physical agent which manifests itself mainly by attractions and repulsions,
but also by luminous and heating effects, by violent commotions, by chemical decompositions,
and many other phenomena. Unlike gravity, it is not inherent in bodies, but it is evoked in
them by a variety of causes … (Ganot's Physics.)

Electricity and magnetism are not forms of energy; neither are they forms of matter. They may,
perhaps, be provisionally defined as properties or conditions of matter; but whether this matter
be the ordinary matter, or whether it be, on the other hand, that all-pervading ether by which
ordinary matter is surrounded, is a question which has been under discussion, and which now
may be fairly held to be settled in favor of the latter view. (Daniell's Physics.)

The name used in connection with an extensive and important class of phenomena, and usually
denoting the unknown cause of the phenomena or the science that treats of them. (Imperial Dictionary.)

Electricity. . . is the imponderable physical agent, cause, force or the molecular movement,
by which, under certain conditions, certain phenomena, chiefly those of attraction and repulsion,
. . . are produced. (John Angell.)

It has been suggested that if anything can rightly be called "electricity," this must be the
ether itself; and that all electrical and magnetic phenomena are simply due to changes, strains
and motions in the ether. Perhaps negative electrification. . .means an excess of ether, and
positive electrification a defect of ether, as compared with the normal density. (W. Larden.)

Electricity is the name given to the supposed agent producing the described condition (i. e.
electrification) of bodies. (Fleeming Jenkin.)

There are certain bodies which, when warm and dry, acquire by friction, the property of attracting
feathers, filaments of silk or indeed any light body towards them. This property is called
Electricity, and bodies which possess it are said to be electrified. (Linnaeus Cumming.)

What electricity is it is impossible to say, but for the present it is convenient to look upon
it as a kind of invisible something which pervades all bodies. (W. Perren Maycock.)

What is electricity? No one knows. It seems to be one manifestation of the energy which fills
the universe and which appears in a variety of other forms, such as heat, light, magnetism,
chemical affinity, mechanical motion, etc. (Park Benjamin.)

208   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The theory of electricity adopted throughout these lessons is, that electricity, whatever its
true nature, is one, not two; that this Electricity, whatever it may prove to be, is not matter,
and is not energy; that it resembles both matter and energy in one respect, however, in that
it can neither be created nor destroyed. (Sylvanus P. Thomson.)

In Physics a name denoting the cause of an important class of phenomena of attraction and repulsion,
chemical decomposition, etc., or, collectively, these phenomena themselves. (Century Dictionary.)

A power in nature, often styled the electric fluid, exhibiting itself, when in disturbed equilibrium
or in activity, by a circuit movement, the fact of direction in which involves polarity, or
opposition of properties in opposite directions; also, by attraction for many substances, by
a law involving attraction between substances of unlike polarity, and repulsion between those
of like; by exhibiting accumulated polar tension when the circuit is broken; and by producing
heat, light, concussion, and often chemical changes when the circuit passes between the poles,
or through any imperfectly conducting substance or space. It is evolved in any disturbance
of molecular equilibrium, whether from a chemical, physical, or mechanical cause. (Webster's
Dictionary.)

In point of fact electricity is not a fluid at all, and only in a few of its attributes is
it at all comparable to a fluid. Let us rather consider electricity to be a condition into
which material substances are thrown. . .(Slingo & Brooker.)

Electricity, Cal. The electricity produced in the secondary of a transformer by changes of
temperature in the core. This is in addition to the regularly induced current.

Synonym--Acheson Effect.

Electrics. Substances developing electrification by rubbing or friction; as Gilbert, the originator
of the term, applied it, it would indicate dielectrics. He did not know that, if insulated,
any substance was one of his "electrics." A piece of copper held by a glass handle becomes
electrified by friction.

Electrification. The receiving or imparting an electric charge to a surface; a term usually
applied to electrostatic phenomena.

Electrization. A term in electro-therapeutics; the subjection of the human system to electric
treatment for curative, tonic or diagnostic purposes.

Electro-biology. The science of electricity in its relation to the living organism, whether
as electricity is developed by the organism, or as it affects the same when applied from an
external source.

209  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-capillarity. The relations between surface tension, the potential difference and the
electrostatic capacity of fluids in contact. Although nominally in contact such surfaces are
separated by about one-twenty-millionth of a centimeter (1/50000000 inch) ; thus a globule
of mercury and water in which it is immersed constitute an electrostatic accumulator of definite
electrostatic capacity. Again the mercury and water being in electric connection differ in
potential by contact (see Contact Theory). A definite surface tension is also established.
Any change in one of these factors changes the other also. A current passed through the contact
surfaces will change the surface tension and hence the shape of the mercury globule. Shaking
the globule will change its shape and capacity and produce a current. Heating will do the same.
(See Electrometer, Capillary; and Telephone, Capillary.) Mercury and water are named as liquids
in which the phenomena are most conveniently observed. They are observable in other parallel cases.

Electro-chemical Equivalent. The quantity of an element or compound liberated from or brought
into combination, electrolytically, by one coulomb of electricity. The electro-chemical equivalent
of hydrogen is found by experiment to be .0000105 gram. That of any other substance is found
by multiplying this weight by its chemical equivalent referred to hydrogen, which is its atomic
or molecular weight divided by its valency. Thus the atomic weight of oxygen is 16, its valency
is 2, its equivalent is 16/2 = 8; its electro-chemical equivalent is equal to .0000105 X 8
= .000840 gram.

Electro-chemical Series. An arrangement of the elements in the order of their relative electrical
affinities so that each element is electro-negative to all the elements following it, and electro-positive
to the elements preceding it. The usual series begins with oxygen as the most electro-negative
and ends with potassium as the most electro-positive element. There is, of course, no reason
why other series of compound radicals, such as sulphion (SO4), etc., should not also be constructed.
For each liquid acting on substances a separate series of the substances acted on may be constructed.
Thus for dilute sulphuric acid the series beginning with the negatively charged or most attacked
one is zinc, amalgamated or pure, cadmium, iron, tin, lead, aluminum, nickel, antimony, bismuth,
copper, silver, platinum. In other liquids the series is altogether different.

Electro--chemistry. The branch of electricity or of chemistry treating of the relations between
electric and chemical force in different compounds and reactions. (See Electrolysis--Electrochemical
series--Electro-chemical Equivalent .)

210   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-culture. The application of electricity to the cultivation of plants. In one system
wires are stretched or carried across the bed under the surface, and some are connected to
one pole and others to the other pole of a galvanic battery of two or more elements. In some
experiments improved results have thus been obtained.

Another branch refers to the action of the electric arc light on vegetation. This has an effect
on vegetation varying in results.

Electrode. (a) The terminal of an open electric circuit.

(b) The terminals of the metallic or solid conductors of an electric circuit, immersed in an
electrolytic solution.

(c) The terminals between which a voltaic arc is formed, always in practice made of carbon,
are termed electrodes.

(d) In electro-therapeutics many different electrodes are used whose names are generally descriptive
of their shape, character, or uses to which they are to be applied. Such are aural electrodes
for the ears, and many others.

(e) The plates of a voltaic battery.

Electrode, Indifferent. A term in electro-therapeutics. An electrode to which no therapeutic
action is attributed but which merely provides a second contact with the body to complete the
circuit through the same. The other electrode is termed the therapeutic electrode.

Electrodes, Erb's Standards of.
Proposed standard sizes for medical electrodes as follows:
  Name.          Diameter.
  Fine     Electrode,   1/2  centimeter   .2      inch
  Small       "         2       "         .8        "
  Medium      "       7.5       "        3.0        "
  Large       "       6X2       "        2.4 X .8   "
  Very large  "      16x8       "        6.4 x 3.2  "

Electrodes, Non-polarizable. In electro-therapeutics electrodes whose contact surface is virtually
porous clay saturated with zinc chloride solution. The series terminate in amalgamated zinc
ends, enclosed each in a glass tube, and closed with clay. Contact of metal with the tissues
is thus avoided.

Electrode, Therapeutic. A term in electro-therapeutics. An electrode applied to the body for
the purpose of inducing therapeutic action, or for giving the basis for an electric diagnosis
of the case. The other electrode is applied to complete the circuit only; it is termed the
indifferent electrode.

Electro-diagnosis. The study of the condition of a patient by the reactions which occur at
the terminals or kathode and anode of an electric circuit applied to the person. The reactions
are divided into kathodic and anodic reactions.

211   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-dynamic. adj. The opposite of electrostatic; a qualification of phenomena due to current
electricity.

Synonym--Electro-kinetic.

Electro-dynamic Attraction and Repulsion. The mutual attraction and repulsion exercised by
currents of electricity upon each other. The theory of the cause is based upon stress of the
luminiferous ether and upon the reaction of lines of force upon each other. For a resumé of
the theory see Induction, Electro-magnetic.

Electro-dynamics. The laws of electricity in a state of motion; the inter-reaction of electric
currents. It is distinguished from electro-magnetic induction as the latter refers to the production
of currents by induction. The general laws of electro-dynamics are stated under Induction,
Electro-magnetic, q. v.

Synonym--Electro-kinetics.

Fig. 143. DIAGRAM OF CONNECTIONS OF SIEMENS' ELECTRO-DYNAMOMETER.

212   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-dynamometer, Siemens'. An apparatus for measuring currents by the reaction between
two coils, one fixed and one movable, through which the current to be measured passes. It is
one of the oldest commercial ammeters or current measurers. It comprises a fixed coil of a
number of convolutions and a movable coil often of only one convolution surrounding the other.
The movable coil is suspended by a filament or thread from a spiral spring. The spring is the
controlling factor. Connection is established through mercury cups so as to bring the two coils
in series. In use the spring and filament are adjusted by turning a milled head to which they
are connected until the coils are at right angles. Then the current is turned on and deflects
the movable coil. The milled head is turned until the deflection is overcome. The angle through
which the head is turned is proportional to the square of the current. The movable coil must
in its position at right angles to the fixed one lie at right angles to the magnetic meridian.

Thus in the diagram, Fig. 143 A B C D is the fixed coil; E F G H is the movable coil; S is
the spiral spring attached at K to the movable coil. The arrows show the course of the current
as it goes through the coils.

Electrolier. A fixture for supporting electric lamps; the analogue in electric lighting of
the gasolier or gas chandelier. Often both are combined, the same fixture being piped and carrying
gas burners, as well as being wired and carrying electric lamps.

Electrolysis. The separation of a chemical compound into its constituent parts or elements
by the action of the electric current. The compound may be decomposed into its elements, as
water into hydrogen and oxygen, or into constituent radicals, as sodium sulphate into sodium
and sulphion, which by secondary reactions at once give sodium hydrate and sulphuric acid.
The decomposition proceeds subject to the laws of electrolysis. (See Electrolysis, Laws of.)
For decomposition to be produced there is for each compound a minimum electro-motive force
or potential difference required. The current passes through the electrolyte or substance undergoing
decomposition entirely by Electrolytic Conduction, q. v. in accordance with Grothüss' Hypothesis,
q. v. The electrolyte therefore must be susceptible of diffusion and must be a fluid.

The general theory holds that under the influence of a potential difference between electrodes
immersed in an electrolyte, the molecules touching the electrodes are polarized, in the opposite
sense for each electrode. If the potential difference is sufficient the molecules will give
up one of their binary constituents to the electrode, and the other constituent will decompose
the adjoining molecule, and that one being separated into the same two constituents will decompose
its neighbor, and so on through the mass until the other electrode is reached. This one separates
definitely the second binary constituent from the molecules touching it.

213   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thus there is an exact balance preserved. Just as many molecules are decomposed at one electrode
as at the other, and the exact chain of decomposition runs through the mass. Each compound
electrolyzed develops a binary or two-fold composition, and gives up one constituent to one
electrode and the other to the other.

Fig. 144. ACTION OF MOLECULES IN A SOLUTION BEFORE AND DURING ELECTROLYSIS.

The cut shows the assumed polarization of an electrolyte. The upper row shows the molecules
in irregular order before any potential difference has been produced, in other words, before
the circuit is closed. The next row shows the first effects of closing the circuit, and also
indicates the polarization of the mass, when the potential difference is insufficient for decomposition.
The third row indicates the decomposition of a chain of molecules, one constituent separating
at each pole.

214   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electrolysis, Laws of. The following are the principal laws, originally discovered by Faraday,
and sometimes called Faraday's Laws of Electrolysis:

1. Electrolysis cannot take place unless the electrolyte is a conductor. Conductor here means
an electrolytic conductor, one that conducts by its own molecules traveling, and being decomposed.
(See Grothüss' Hypothesis.)

II. The energy of the electrolytic action of the current is the same wherever exercised in
different parts of the circuit.

III. The same quantity of electricity--that is the same current for the same period----- decomposes
chemically equivalent quantities of the bodies it decomposes, or the weights of elements separated
in electrolytes by the same quantity of electricity (in coulombs or some equivalent unit) are
to each other as their chemical equivalent.

IV. The quantity of a body decomposed in a given time is proportional to the strength of the
current.

To these may be added the following:

V. A definite and fixed electro-motive force is required for the decomposition of each compound,
greater for some and less for others. Without sufficient electro-motive force expended on the
molecule no decomposition will take place. (See Current, Convective.)

Electrolyte. A body susceptible of decomposition by the electric current, and capable of electrolytic
conduction. It must be a fluid body and therefore capable of diffusion, and composite in composition.
An elemental body cannot be an electrolyte.

Electrolytic Analysis. Chemical analysis by electrolysis. The quantitative separation of a
number of metals can be very effectively executed. Thus, suppose that a solution of copper
sulphate was to be analyzed. A measured portion of the solution would be introduced into a
weighed platinum vessel. The vessel would be connected to the zinc plate terminal of a battery.
From the other terminal of the battery a wire would be brought and would terminate in a plate
of platinum. This would be immersed in the solution in the vessel. As the current would pass
the copper sulphate would be decomposed and eventually all the copper would be deposited in
a firm coating on the platinum. The next operations would be to wash the metal with distilled
water, and eventually with alcohol, to dry and to weigh the dish with the adherent copper.
On subtracting the weight of the dish alone from the weight of the dish and copper, the weight
of the metallic copper in the solution would be obtained.

In similar ways many other determinations are effected. The processes of analysis include solution
of the ores or other substances to be analyzed and their conversion into proper form for electrolysis.
Copper as just described can be precipitated from the solution of its sulphate. For iron and
many other metals solutions of their double alkaline oxalates are especially available forms
for analysis.

The entire subject has been worked out in considerable detail by Classen, to whose works reference
should be made for details of processes.

Electrolytic Convection. It is sometimes observed that a single cell of Daniell battery, for
instance, or other source of electric current establishing too low a potential difference for
the decomposition of water seems to produce a feeble but continuous decomposition. This is
very unsatisfactorily accounted for by the hydrogen as liberated combining with dissolved oxygen.
(Ganot.) The whole matter is obscure. (See Current, Convection.)

215  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electrolytic Conduction. Conduction by the travel of atoms or radicals from molecule to molecule
of a substance with eventual setting free at the electrodes of the atoms or radicals as elementary
molecules or constituent radicals. A substance to be capable of acting as an electrolytic conductor
must be capable of diffusion, and must also have electrolytic conductivity. Such a body is
called an electrolyte. (See Grothüss' Hypothesis--Electrolysis-- Electrolysis, Laws of--Electro-chemical
Equivalent.)

Electro-magnet. A mass, in practice always of iron, around which an electric circuit is carried,
insulated from the iron. When a current is passed through the circuit the iron presents the
characteristics of a magnet. (See Magnetism, Ampére's Theory of--Solenoid--Lines of Force.)
In general terms the action of a circular current is to establish lines of force that run through
the axis of the circuit approximately parallel thereto, and curving out of and over the circuit,
return into themselves outside of the circuit. If a mass of iron is inserted in the axis or
elsewhere near such current, it multiplies within itself the lines of force, q. v. (See also
Magnetic Permeability--Permeance--Magnetic Induction, Coefficient of Magnetic Susceptibility--Magnetization,
Coefficient of Induced.) These lines of force make it a magnet. On their direction, which again
depends on the direction of the magnetizing current, depends the polarity of the iron. The
strength of an electro-magnet, below saturation of the core (see Magnetic Saturation), is proportional
nearly to the ampere-turns, q. v. More turns for the same current or more current for the same
turns increase its strength.

In the cut is shown the general relation of current, coils, core and line of force. Assume
that the magnet is looked at endwise, the observer facing one of the poles; then if the current
goes around the core in the direction opposite to that of the hands of a clock, such pole will
be the north pole. If the current is in the direction of the hands of a clock the pole facing
the observer will be the south pole. The whole relation is exactly that of the theoretical
Ampérian currents, already explained. The direction and course of the lines of force created
are shown in the cut.

The shapes of electro-magnets vary greatly. The cuts show several forms of electro-magnets.
A more usual form is the horseshoe or double limb magnet, consisting generally of two straight
cores, wound with wire and connected and held parallel to each other by a bar across one end,
which bar is called the yoke.

In winding such a magnet the wire coils must conform, as regards direction of the current in
them to the rule for polarity already cited. If both poles are north or both are south poles,
then the magnet cannot be termed a horseshoe magnet, but is merely an anomalous magnet. In
the field magnets of dynamos the most varied types of electro-magnets have been used. Consequent
poles are often produced in them by the direction of the windings and connections.

To obtain the most powerful magnet the iron core should be as short and thick as possible in
order to diminish the reluctance of the magnetic circuit. To obtain a greater range of action
a long thin shape is better, although it involves waste of energy in its excitation.

216   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 145 DIAGRAM OF AN ELECTRO-MAGNET SHOWING RELATION OF CURRENT AND WINDING TO ITS POLARITY
AND LINES OF FORCE.

Fig. 146. ANNULAR ELECTRO-MAGNET

Electro-magnet, Annular. An electro-magnet consisting of a cylinder with a circular groove
cut in its face, in which groove a coil of insulated wire is placed. On the passage of a current
the iron becomes polarized and attracts an armature towards or against its grooved face. The
cut shows the construction of an experimental one. It is in practice applied to brakes and
clutches. In the cut of the electro-magnetic brake (see Brake, Electro-magnetic), C is the
annular magnet receiving its current through the brushes, and pressed when braking action is
required against the face of the moving wheel. The same arrangement, it can be seen, may apply
to a clutch.

217  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 147. BAR ELECTRO-MAGNET.

Electro-magnet, Bar. A straight bar of iron surrounded with a magnetizing coil of wire. Bar
electromagnets are not much used, the horseshoe type being by far the more usual.

Electro-magnet, Club-foot. An electro-magnet, one of whose legs only is wound with wire, the
other being bare.

Fig. 148. CLUB-FOOT ELECTRO-MAGNETS WITH HINGED ARMATURES.

Electro-magnet, Hinged. An electro-magnet whose limbs are hinged at the yoke. On excitation
by a current the poles tend to approach each other.

Fig. 149. ELECTRO-MAGNET, HINGED

Electro-magnetic Attraction and Repulsion. The attraction and repulsion due to electromagnetic
lines of force, which lines always tend to take as short a course as possible and also seek
the medium of the highest permeance. This causes them to concentrate in iron and steel or other
paramagnetic substance and to draw them towards a magnet by shortening the lines of force connecting
the two. It is exactly the same attraction as that of the permanent magnet for its armature,
Ampére's theory bringing the latter under the same title. In the case of two magnets like poles
repel and unlike attract. In the case of simple currents, those in the same direction attract
and those in opposite directions repel each other. This refers to constant current reactions.
Thus the attraction of unlike poles of two magnets is, by the Ampérian theory, the attraction
of two sets of currents of similar direction, as is evident from the diagram. The repulsion
of like poles is the repulsion of unlike currents and the same applies to solenoids, q. v.
(See Magnetism and do. Ampére's Theory of--Induction, Electro-dynamic--Electro-magnetic Induction.)

218   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-magnetic Control. Control of a magnet, iron armature, or magnetic needle in a galvanometer,
ammeter, voltmeter or similar instrument by an electro-magnetic field, the restitutive force
being derived from an electro-magnet. The restitutive force is the force tending to bring the
index to zero.

Electro-magnetic Field of Force. A field of electro-magnetic lines of force, q. v., established
through the agency of an electric current. A wire carrying a current is surrounded by circular
concentric lines of force which have the axis of the wire as the locus of their centres. Electro-magnets
produce lines of force identical with those produced by permanent magnets. (See Field of Force--Magnetic
Field of Force--Controlling Field--Deflecting Field.)

Electro-magnetic Induction. When two currents of unlike direction are brought towards each
other, against their natural repulsive tendency work is done, and the consequent energy takes
the form of a temporary increase in both currents. When withdrawn, in compliance with the natural
tendency of repulsion, the currents are diminished in intensity, because energy is not expended
on the withdrawal, but the withdrawal is at the expense of the energy of the system. The variations
thus temporarily produced in the currents are examples of electro-magnetic induction. The currents
have only the duration in each case of the motion of the circuits. One circuit is considered
as carrying the inducer current and is termed the primary circuit and its current the primary
current, the others are termed the secondary circuit and current respectively. We may assume
a secondary circuit in which there is no current. It is probable that there is always an infinitely
small current at least, in every closed circuit. Then an approach of the circuits will induce
in the secondary an instantaneous current in the reverse direction. On separating the two circuits
a temporary current in the same direction is produced in the secondary.

219  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

A current is surrounded by lines of force. The approach of two circuits, one active, involves
a change in the lines of force about the secondary circuit. Lines of force and current are
so intimately connected that a change in one compels a change in the other. Therefore the induced
current in the secondary may be attributed to the change in the field of force in which it
lies, a field maintained by the primary circuit and current. Any change in a field of force
induces a current or change of current in any closed circuit in such field, lasting as long
as the change is taking place. The new current will be of such direction as to oppose the change.
(See Lenz's Law.)

The action as referred to lines of force may be figured as the cutting of such lines by the
secondary circuit, and such cutting may be brought about by moving the secondary in the field.
(See Lines of Force--Field of Force.) The cutting of 1E8 lines of force per second by a closed
circuit induces an electro-motive force of one volt. (See Induction, Mutual, Coefficient of.)

Electro-magnet, Iron Clad. A magnet whose coil and core are encased in a iron jacket, generally
connected to one end of the core. This gives at one end two poles, one tubular, the other solid,
and concentric with each other. It is sometimes called a tubular magnet.

Electro-magnet, One Coil. An electro-magnet excited by one coil. In some dynamos the field
magnets are of this construction, a single coil, situated about midway between the poles, producing
the excitation.

Electro-magnetic Leakage. The leakage of lines of force in an electro-magnet; the same as magnetic
leakage. (See Magnetic Leakage.)

Electro-magnetic Lines of Force. The lines of force produced in an electro-magnetic field.
They are identical with Magnetic Lines of Force, q. v. (See also Field of Force-Line of Force.)

Electro-magnetic Stress. The stress in an electro-magnetic field of force, showing itself in
the polarization of light passing through a transparent medium in such a field. (See Magnetic
Rotary Polarization.)

Electro-magnetic Theory of Light. This theory is due to J. Clark Maxwell, and the recent Hertz
experiments have gone far to prove it. It holds that the phenomena of light are due to ether
waves, identical in general factors with those produced by electro-magnetic induction of alternating
currents acting on the ether. In a non-conductor any disturbance sets an ether wave in motion
owing to its restitutive force; electricity does not travel through such a medium, but can
create ether waves in it. Therefore a non-conductor of electricity is permeable to waves of
ether or should transmit light, or should be transparent. A conductor on the other hand transmits
electrical disturbances because it has no restitutive force and cannot support an ether wave.
Hence a conductor should not transmit light, or should be opaque. With few exceptions dielectrics
or non-conductors are transparent, and conductors are opaque.

220   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Again, the relation between the electrostatic and electro-magnet units of quantity is expressed
by 1 : 30,000,000,000; the latter figure in centimeters gives approximately the velocity of
light. The electro-magnetic unit depending on electricity in motion should have this precise
relation if an electro-magnetic disturbance was propagated with the velocity of light. If an
electrically charged body were whirled around a magnetic needle with the velocity of light,
it should act in the same way as a current circulating around it. This effect to some extent
has been shown experimentally by Rowland.

A consequence of these conclusions is (Maxwell) that the specific inductive capacity of a non-conductor
or dielectric should be equal to the square of its index of refraction for waves of infinite
length. This is true for some substances--sulphur, turpentine, petroleum and benzole. In others
the specific inductive capacity is too high, e. g., vegetable and animal oils, glass, Iceland
spar, fluor spar, and quartz.

Electro-magnetic Unit of Energy. A rate of transference of energy equal to ten meg-ergs per second.

Electro-magnetism. The branch of electrical science treating of the magnetic relations of a
field of force produced by a current, of the reactions of electro-magnetic lines of force,
of the electromagnetic field of force, of the susceptibility, permeability, and reluctance
of diamagnetic and paramagnetic substances, and of electro-magnets in general.

Electro-magnet, Long Range. An electro-magnet so constructed with extended pole pieces or otherwise,
as to attract its armature with reasonably constant force over a considerable distance. The
coil and plunger, q. v., mechanisms illustrate one method of getting an extended range of action.
When a true electro-magnet is used, one with an iron core, only a very limited range is attainable
at the best. (See Electro-magnet, Stopped Coil--do. Plunger.)

Electro-magnet, Plunger. An electro-magnet with hollow coils, into which the armature enters
as a plunger. To make it a true electro-magnet it must have either a yoke, incomplete core,
or some polarized mass of iron.

Electro-magnet, Polarized. An electro-magnet consisting of a polarized or permanently magnetized
core wound with magnetizing coils, or with such coils on soft iron cores mounted on its ends.
The coils may be wound and connected so as to cooperate with or work against the permanent
magnet on which it is mounted. In Hughes' magnet shown in the cut it is mounted in opposition,
so that an exceedingly feeble current will act to displace the armature, a, which is pulled
away from the magnet by a spring, s.

221   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 150 HUGHES' POLARIZED ELECTRO-MAGNET

Electro-magnets, Interlocking. Electro-magnets so arranged that their armatures interlock.
Thus two magnets, A A and B B, may be placed with their armatures, M and N, at right angles
and both normally pulled away from the poles. When the armature M is attracted a catch on its
end is retained by a hole in the end of the other armature N, and when the latter armature
N is attracted by its magnet the armature M is released. In the mechanism shown in the cut
the movements of the wheel R are controlled. Normally it is held motionless by the catch upon
the bottom of the armature M, coming against the tooth projecting from its periphery. A momentary
current through the coils of the magnet A A releases it, by attracting M, which is caught and
retained by N, and leaves it free to rotate. A momentary current through the coils of the magnet
B B again releases M, which drops down and engages the tooth upon R and arrests its motion.

Fig. 151. INTERLOCKING ELECTRO-MAGNETS.

222   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-magnet, Stopped Coil. An electro-magnet consisting of a tubular coil, in which a short
fixed core is contained, stopping up the aperture to a certain distance, while the armature
is a plunger entering the aperture. This gives a longer range of action than usual.

Electro-magnet, Surgical. An electro-magnet, generally of straight or bar form, fitted with
different shaped pole pieces, used for the extraction of fragments of iron or steel from the
eyes. Some very curious cases of successful operations on the eyes of workmen, into whose eyes
fragments of steel or iron had penetrated, are on record.

Electro-medical Baths. A bath for the person provided with connections and electrodes for causing
a current of electricity of any desired type to pass through the body of the bather. Like all
electro-therapeutical treatment, it should be administered under the direction of a physician only.

Electro-metallurgy. (a) In the reduction of ores the electric current has been proposed but
never extensively used, except in the reduction of aluminum and its alloys. (See Reduction
of Ores, Electric.)

(b) Electro-plating and deposition of metal from solutions is another branch. (See Electroplating
and Electrotyping.)

(c) The concentration of iron ores by magnetic attraction may come under this head. (See Magnetic
Concentration of Ores.)

Electrometer. An instrument for use in the measurement of potential difference, by the attraction
or repulsion of statically charged bodies. They are distinguished from galvanometers as the
latter are really current measurers, even if wound for use as voltmeters, depending for their
action upon the action of the current circulating in their coils.

Electrometer, Absolute. An electrometer designed to give directly the value of a charge in
absolute units. In one form a plate, a b, of conducting surface is supported or poised horizontally
below a second larger plate C, also of conducting surface. The poised plate is surrounded by
a detached guard ring--an annular or perforated plate, r g r' g'--exactly level and even with
it as regards the upper surface. The inner plate is carried by a delicate balance. In use it
is connected to one of the conductors and the lower plate to earth or to the other. The attraction
between them is determined by weighing. By calculation the results can be made absolute, as
they depend on actual size of the plates and their distance, outside of the potential difference
of which of course nothing can be said. If S is the area of the disc, d the distance of the
plates, V-V1 the difference of their potential, which is to be measured, and F the force required
to balance their attraction, we have:

F = ( ( V - V1 )^2 * S )  / ( 8 * PI * d^2 )

223  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

If  V = 0 this reduces to

  F =  ( V^2 * S ) / ( 8 * PI * d^2 )  (2)
  or
  V =  d * SquareRoot( (8 * PI * F ) / S )   (3)

As F is expressed as a weight, and S and a as measures of area and length, this gives a means
of directly obtaining potential values in absolute measure. (See Idiostatic Method--Heterostatic
Method.)

Synonyms--Attracted Disc Electrometer--Weight Electrometer.

Fig. 152. SECTION OF BASE OF PORTABLE ELECTROMETER.

In some forms the movable disc is above the other, and supported at the end of a balance beam.
In others a spring support, arranged so as to enable the attraction to be determined in weight
units, is adopted. The cuts, Figs. 152 and 154, show one of the latter type, the portable electrometer.
The disc portion is contained within a cylindrical vessel.

Fig. 153. DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING THEORY OF ABSOLUTE ELECTROMETER.

Referring to Fig. 152  g is the stationary disc, charged through the wire connection r; f is
the movable disc, carried by a balance beam poised at i on a horizontal and transverse stretched
platinum wire, acting as a torsional spring. The position of the end k of the balance beam
shows when the disc f is in the plane of the guard ring h h. The end k is forked horizontally
and a horizontal sighting wire or hair is fastened across the opening of the fork. When the
hair is midway between two dots on a vertical scale the lever is in the sighted position, as
it is called, and the disc is in the plane of the guard ring.

224   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 154. PORTABLE ELECTROMETER.

The general construction is seen in Fig. 154. There the fixed disc D is carried by insulating
stem g1. The charging electrode is supported by an insulating stem g2, and without contact
with the box passes out of its cover through a guard tube E, with cover, sometimes called umbrella,
V. The umbrella is to protect the apparatus from air currents. At m is the sighting lens. H
is a lead box packed with pumice stone, moistened with oil of vitriol or concentrated sulphuric
acid, to preserve the atmosphere dry. Before use the acid is boiled with some ammonium sulphate
to expel any corrosive nitrogen oxides, which might corrode the brass.

In use the upper disc is charged by its insulated electrode within the tube E; the movable
disc is charged if desired directly through the case of the instrument. The upper disc is screwed
up or down by the micrometer head M, until the sighted position is reached. The readings of
the micrometer on the top of the case give the data for calculation.

225   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 155. LIPPMAN'S CAPILLARY ELECTROMETER.

Electrometer, Capillary. An electrometer for measuring potential difference by capillary action,
which latter is affected by electrostatic excitement. A tube A contains mercury; its end drawn
out to a fine aperture dips into a vessel B which contains dilute sulphuric acid with mercury
under it, as shown. Wires running from the binding-posts a and b connect one with the mercury
in A, the other with that in B. The upper end of the tube A connects with a thick rubber mercury
reservoir T, and manometer H. The surface tension of the mercury-acid film at the lower end
of the tube A keeps all in equilibrium. If now a potential difference is established between
a and b, as by connecting a battery thereto, the surface tension is increased and the mercury
rises in the tube B. By screwing down the compressing clamp E, the mercury is brought back
to its original position. The microscope M is used to determine this position with accuracy.
The change in reading of the manometer gives the relation of change of surface tension and
therefore of potential. Each electrometer needs special graduation or calibration, but is exceedingly
sensitive and accurate. It cannot be used for greater potential differences than .6 volt, but
can measure .0006 volt. Its electrostatic capacity is so small that it can indicate rapid changes.
Another form indicates potential difference by the movement of a drop of sulphuric acid in
a horizontal glass tube, otherwise filled with mercury, and whose ends lead into two mercury
cups or reservoirs. The pair of electrodes to be tested are connected to the mercury vessels.
The drop moves towards the negative pole, and its movement for small potential differences
(less than one volt) is proportional to the electro-motive force or potential difference.

226   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electrometer Gauge. An absolute electrometer (see Electrometer, Absolute) forming an attachment
to a Thomson quadrant electrometer. It is used to test the potential of the flat needle connected
with the inner surface of the Leyden jar condenser of the apparatus. This it does by measuring
the attraction between itself and an attracting disc, the latter connected by a conductor with
the interior of the jar.

Electrometer, Lane's. A Leyden jar with mounted discharger, so that when charged to a certain
point it discharges itself. It is connected with one coating of any jar whose charge is to
be measured, which jar is then charged by the other coating. As the jar under trial becomes
charged to a certain point the electrometer jar discharges itself, and the number of discharges
is the measure of the charge of the other jar. It is really a unit jar, q. v.

Fig. 156. THOMSON'S QUADRANT ELECTROMETER.

Fig. 157. HENLEY'S QUADRANT ELECTROSCOPE.

227  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electrometer, Quadrant. (a) Sir William Thomson's electrometer, a simple form of which is shown
in the cut, consists of four quadrants of metal placed horizontally; above these a broad flat
aluminum needle hangs by a very fine wire, acting as torsional suspension. The quadrants are
insulated from each other, but the opposite ones connect with each other by wires. The apparatus
is adjusted so that, when the quadrants are in an unexcited condition the needle is at rest
over one of the diametrical divisions between quadrants. The needle by its suspension wire
is in communication with the interior of a Leyden jar which is charged. The whole is covered
with a glass shade, and the air within is kept dry by a dish of concentrated sulphuric acid
so that the jar retains its charge for a long time and keeps the needle at approximately a
constant potential. If now two pairs of quadrants are excited with opposite electricities,
as when connected with the opposite poles of an insulated galvanic cell, the needle is repelled
by one pair and attracted by the other, and therefore rotates through an arc of greater or
less extent. A small concave mirror is attached above the needle and its image is reflected
on a graduated screen. This makes the smallest movement visible. Sometimes the quadrants are
double, forming almost a complete box, within which the needle moves.

(b) Henley's quadrant electrometer is for use on the prime conductor of an electric machine,
for roughly indicating the relative potential thereof. It consists of a wooden standard attached
perpendicularly to the conductor. Near one end is attached a semi-circular or quadrant arc
of a circle graduated into degrees or angular divisions. An index, consisting of a straw with
a pith-bell attached to its end hangs from the center of curvature of the arc. When the prime
conductor is charged the index moves up over the scale and its extent of motion indicates the
potential relatively.

When the "quadrant electrometer" is spoken of it may always be assumed that Sir William Thomson's
instrument is alluded to. Henley's instrument is properly termed a quadrant electroscope. (See
Electroscope.)

Electro-motive Force. The cause which produces currents of electricity. In general it can be
expressed in difference of potentials, although the term electro-motive force should be restricted
to potential difference causing a current. It is often a sustained charging of the generator
terminals whence the current is taken. Its dimensions are

(work done/the quantity of electricity involved),

or ( M * (L^2) /(T^2 ) ) / ((M^.5) * (L^.5)) = ( (M^.5) * (L^1.5) ) /(T^2)

The practical unit of electro-motive force is the volt, q. v. It is often expressed in abbreviated
form, as E. M. D. P., or simply as D. P., i. e., potential difference.

Electro-motive force and potential difference are in many cases virtually identical, and distinctions
drawn between them vary with different authors. If we consider a closed electric circuit carrying
a current, a definite electro-motive force determined by Ohm's law from the resistance and
current obtains in it. But if we attempt to define potential difference as proper to the circuit
we may quite fail. Potential difference in a circuit is the difference in potential between
defined points of such circuit. But no points in a closed circuit can be found which differ
in potential by an amount equal to the entire electro-motive force of the circuit. Potential
difference is properly the measure of electro-motive force expended on the portion of a circuit
between any given points. Electro-motive force of an entire circuit, as it is measured, as
it were, between two consecutive points but around the long portion of the circuit, is not
conceivable as merely potential difference. Taking the circle divided in to degrees as an analogy,
the electro-motive force of the entire circuit might be expressed as 360º, which are the degrees
intervening between two consecutive points, measured the long way around the circle. But the
potential difference between the same two points would be only 1º, for it would be measured
by the nearest path.

228   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-motive Force, Counter. A current going through a circuit often has not only true or
ohmic resistance to overcome, but meets an opposing E. M. F. This is termed counter-electro-motive
force. It is often treated in calculations as resistance, and is termed spurious resistance.
It may be a part of the impedance of a circuit.

In a primary battery hydrogen accumulating on the negative plate develops counter E. M. F.
In the voltaic arc the differential heating of the two carbons does the same. The storage battery
is changed by a current passing in the opposite direction to its own natural current; the polarity
of such a battery is counter E. M. F.

Electro-motive Force, Unit. It is that which must be maintained in a circuit of unit resistance
to maintain a current of unit quantity therein. It is that which must be maintained between
the ends of a conductor in order that unit current may do unit work in a second.

Electro-motive Intensity. The force acting upon a unit charge of electricity. The mean force
is equal to the difference of potential between two points within the field situated one centimeter
apart, such distance being measured along the lines of force. The term is due to J. Clerk Maxwell.

Electro-motive Series. Arrangement of the metals and carbon in series with the most electro-positive
at one end, and electronegative at the other end. The following are examples for different
exciting liquids:

Dilute Sulphuric   Dilute Hydrochloric   Caustic   Potassium Acid               Acid.     
Potash.   Sulphide.

Zinc               Zinc                  Zinc      Zinc Cadmium            Cadmium        
Tin       Copper Tin                Tin                   Cadmium   Cadmium Lead          
Lead                  Antimony  Tin Iron               Iron                  Lead      Silver
Nickel             Copper                Bismuth   Antimony Bismuth            Bismuth    
Iron      Lead Antimony           Nickel                Copper    Bismuth Copper          
Silver                Nickel    Nickel Silver             Antimony              Silver    Iron
Gold Platinum Carbon

In each series the upper metal is the positive, dissolved or attacked element.

229  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-motograph. An invention of Thomas A. Edison. A cylinder of chalk, moistened with solution
of caustic soda, is mounted so as to be rotated by a handle. A diaphragm has an arm connected
to its center. This arm is pressed against the surface of the cylinder by a spring. When the
cylinder is rotated, a constant tension is exerted on the diaphragm. If a current is passed
through the junction of arm and cylinder the electrolytic action alters the friction so as
to change the stress upon the diaphragm.

If the current producing this effect is of the type produced by the human voice through a microphone
the successive variations in strain upon the diaphragm will cause it to emit articulate sounds.
These are produced directly by the movement of the cylinder, the electrolytic action being
rather the regulating portion of the operation. Hence very loud sounds can be produced by it.
This has given it the name of the loud- speaking telephone.

The same principle may be applied in other ways. But the practical application of the motograph
is in the telephone described.

Fig. 158. ELECTRO-MOTOGRAPH TELEPHONE

Electro-motor. This term is sometimes applied to a current generator, such as a voltaic battery.

Electro-muscular Excitation. A term in medical electricity indicating the excitation of muscle
as the effect of electric currents of any kind.

Electro-negative. adj. Appertaining to negative electrification; thus of the elements oxygen
is the most electro-negative, because if separated by electrolytic action from any combination,
it will be charged with negative electricity.

230   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-optics. The branch of natural science treating of the relations between light and electricity.
Both are supposed to be phenomena of or due to the luminiferous ether. To it may be referred
the following:

(a) Electro-magnetic Stress and Magnetic Rotary Polarization;

(b) Dielectric Strain; all of which may be referred to in this book;

(c) Change in the resistance of a conductor by changes in light to which it is exposed (see
Selenium);

(d) The relation of the index of refraction of a dielectric to the dielectric constant (see
Electro-magnetic Theory of Light);

(e) The identity (approximate) of the velocity of light in centimeters and the relative values
of the electrostatic and electro-magnet units of intensity, the latter being 30,000,000,000
times greater than the former, while the velocity of light is 30,000,000,000 centimeters per
second.

Electrophoric Action. The action of an electrophorous; utilized in influence machines. (See
Electrophorous.)

Fig. 159. ELECTROPHOROUS.

Electrophorous. An apparatus for the production of electric charges of high potential by electrostatic
induction, q. v. It consists of a disc of insulating material B, such as resin or gutta percha,
which is held in a shallow metal-lined box or form. The disc may be half an inch thick and
a foot or more in diameter, or may be much smaller and thinner. A metal disc A, smaller in
diameter is provided with an insulating handle which may be of glass, or simply silk suspension
strings. To use it the disc B is excited by friction with a cat-skin or other suitable substance.
The metallic disc is then placed on the cake of resin exactly in its centre, so that the latter
disc or cake projects on all sides. Owing to roughness there is little real electric contact
between the metal and dielectric. On touching the metal disc a quantity of negative electricity
escapes to the earth. On raising it from the cake it comes off excited positively, and gives
a spark and is discharged. It can be replaced, touched, removed and another spark can be taken
from it, and so on as long as the cake stays charged.

The successive discharges represent electrical energy expended. This is derived from the muscular
energy expended by the operator in separating the two discs when oppositely excited. As generally
used it is therefore an apparatus for converting muscular or mechanical energy into electric
energy.

231   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electro-physiology. The science of the electric phenomena of the animal system. It may also
be extended to include plants. The great discovery of Galvani with the frog's body fell into
this branch of science. The electric fishes, gymnotus, etc., present intense phenomena in the same.

Electroplating. The deposition by electrolysis of a coating of metal upon a conducting surface.
The simplest system makes the object to be plated the negative electrode or plate in a galvanic
couple. Thus a spoon or other object may be connected by a wire to a plate of zinc. A porous
cup is placed inside a battery jar. The spoon is placed in the porous cup and the zinc outside
it. A solution of copper sulphate is placed in the porous cup, and water with a little sodium
or zinc sulphate dissolved in it, outside. A current starts through the couple, and copper
is deposited on the spoon.

A less primitive way is to use a separate battery as the source of current; to connect to the
positive plate by a wire the object to be plated, and a plate of copper, silver, nickel or
other metal to the other pole of the battery. On immersing both object and plate (anode) in
a bath of proper solution the object will become plated.

In general the anode is of the same material as the metal to be deposited, and dissolving keeps
up the strength of the bath. There are a great many points of technicality involved which cannot
be given here. The surface of the immersed object must be conductive. If not a fine wire network
stretched over it will gradually fill up in the bath and give a matrix. More generally the
surface is made conductive by being brushed over with plumbago. This may be followed by a dusting
of iron dust, followed by immersion in solution ot copper sulphate. This has the effect of
depositing metallic copper over the surface as a starter for the final coat.

Attention must be paid to the perfect cleanliness of the objects, to the condition of the bath,
purity of anodes and current density.

Voltaic batteries are largely used for the current as well as special low resistance dynamos.
Thermo-electric batteries are also used to some extent but not generally.

Electro-pneumatic Signals. Signals, such as railroad signals or semaphores, moved by compressed
air, which is controlled by valves operated by electricity. The House telegraph, which was
worked by air controlled by electricity, might come under this term, but it is always understood
as applied to railroad signals, or their equivalent.

232   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electropoion Fluid. An acid depolarizing solution for use in zinc-carbon couples, such as the
Grenet battery. The following are formulae for its preparation:

(a) Dissolve one pound of potassium bichromate in ten pounds of water, to which two and one-half
pounds of concentrated sulphuric acid have been gradually added. The better way is to use powdered
potassium bichromate, add it to the water first, and then gradually add the sulphuric acid
with constant stirring.

(b) To three pints of water add five fluid ounces of concentrated sulphuric acid; add six ounces
pulverized potassium bichromate.

(c) Mix one gallon concentrated sulphuric acid and three gallons of water. In a separate vessel
dissolve six pounds potassium bichromate in two gallons of boiling water. Mix the two.

The last is the best formula. Always use electropoion fluid cold. (See Trouvé's Solution--Poggendorff's
Solution--Kakogey's Solution-- Tissandrier's Solution--Chutaux's Solution.)

Electro-positive. adj. Appertaining to positive electrification; thus potassium is the most
electro-positive of the elements. (See Electro-negative.)

Electro-puncture. The introduction into the system of a platinum point or needle, insulated
with vulcanite, except near its point, and connected as the anode of a galvanic battery. The
kathode is a metal one, covered with a wet sponge and applied on the surface near the place
of puncture. It is used for treatment of aneurisms or diseased growths, and also for removal
of hair by electrolysis. (See Hair, Removal of by Electrolysis.)

Synonym--Galvano-puncture.

Electro-receptive. adj. A term applied to any device or apparatus designed to receive and absorb
electric energy. A motor is an example of an electro-receptive mechanism.

Electroscope. An apparatus for indicating the presence of an electric charge, and also for
determining the sign, or whether the charge is positive or negative. The simplest form consists
of a thread doubled at its centre and hung therefrom. On being charged, or on being connected
to a charged body the threads diverge. A pair of pith balls may be suspended in a similar way,
or a couple of strips of gold leaf within a flask (the gold leaf electroscope). To use an electroscope
to determine the sign of the charge it is first slightly charged. The body to be tested is
then applied to the point of suspension, or other charging point. If at once further repelled
the charge of the body is of the same sign as the slight charge first imparted to the electroscope
leaves; the leaves as they become more excited will at once diverge more. If of different sign
they will at first approach as their charge is neutralized and will afterwards diverge.

The gold-leaf electroscope is generally enclosed in a glass bell jar or flask. Sometimes a
pair of posts rise, one on each side, to supply points of induction from the earth to intensify
the action. (See Electrometer, Quadrant--Electroscope, Gold leaf, and others.)

233  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electroscope, Bennett's. A gold-leaf electroscope, the suspended leaves of which are contained
in a glass shade or vessel of dry air. On the inside of the glass shade are two strips of gold
leaf, which rise from the lower edge a short distance, being pasted to the glass, and connected
to the ground. These act by induction to increase the sensitiveness of the instruments.

Electroscope, Bohenberger's. A condensing electroscope (see Electroscope, Condensing) with
a single strip of gold leaf suspended within the glass bell. This is at an equal distance from
the opposite poles of two dry piles (see Zamboni's Dry Pile) standing on end, one on each side
of it. As soon as the leaf is excited it moves toward one and away from the other pile, and
the sign of its electrification is shown by the direction of its motion.

Electroscope, Condensing. A gold leaf electroscope, the glass bell of which is surmounted by
an electrophorous or static condenser, to the lower plate of which the leaves of gold are suspended
or connected.

In use the object to be tested is touched to the lower plate, and the upper plate at the same
time is touched by the finger. The plates are now separated. This reduces the capacity of the
lower plate greatly and its charge acquires sufficient potential to affect the leaves, although
the simple touching may not have affected them at all.

Electroscope, Gold Leaf. An electroscope consisting of two leaves of gold leaf hung in contact
with each other from the end of a conductor. When excited they diverge. The leaves are enclosed
in a glass vessel.

Fig. 160. GOLD LEAF ELECTROSCOPE.

234   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electroscope, Pith Ball. Two pith balls suspended at opposite ends of a silk thread doubled
in the middle. When charged with like electricity they repel each other. The extent of their
repulsion indicates the potential of their charge.

Electrostatic Attraction and Repulsion. The attraction and repulsion of electrostatically charged
bodies for each other, shown when charged with electricity. If charged with electricity of
the same sign they repel each other. If with opposite they attract each other. The classic
attraction and subsequent repulsion of bits of straw and chaff by the excited piece of amber
is a case of electrostatic attraction and repulsion. (See Electricity, Static--Electrostatics--Coulomb's
Laws of Electrostatic Attraction and Repulsion.)

Electrostatic Induction, Coefficient of. The coefficient expressing the ratio of the charge
or change of charge developed in one body to the potential of the inducing body.

Electrostatic Lines of Force. Lines of force assumed to exist in an electrostatic field of
force, and to constitute the same. In general they correspond in action and attributes with
elcctro-magnetic lines of force. They involve in almost all cases either a continuous circuit,
or a termination at both ends in oppositely charged surfaces.

Fig. 161. ELECTROSTATIC LINES OF FORCE BETWEEN NEAR SURFACES.

Fig. 162. ELECTROSTATIC LINKS OF FORCE BETWEEN DISTANT SURFACES.

235   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The cut, Fig. 161, shows the general course taken by lines of force between two excited surfaces
when near together. Here most of them are straight lines reaching straight across from surface
to surface, while a few of them arch across from near the edges, tending to spread. If the
bodies are drawn apart the spreading tendency increases and the condition of things shown in
the next cut, Fig. 162, obtains. There is an axial line whose prolongations may be supposed
to extend indefinitely, as occupying a position of unstable equilibrium. Here the existence
of a straight and unterminated line of force may be assumed.

A direction is predicated to lines of force corresponding with the direction of an electric
current. They are assumed to start from a positively charged and to go towards a negatively
charged surface. A positively charged body placed in an electrostatic field of force will be
repelled from the region of positive into or towards the region of negative potential following
the direction of the lines of force, not moving transversely to them, and having no transverse
component in its motion.

Electrostatics. The division of electric science treating of the phenomena of electric charge,
or of electricity in repose, as contrasted with electro-dynamics or electricity in motion or
in current form. Charges of like sign repel, and of unlike sign attract each other. The general
inductive action is explained by the use of the electrostatic field of force and electrostatic
lines of force, q. v. The force of attraction and repulsion of small bodies or virtual points,
which are near enough to each other, vary as the square of the distance nearly, and with the
product of the quantities of the charges of the two bodies.

Electrostatic Refraction. Dr. Kerr found that certain dielectrics exposed to electric strain
by being placed between two oppositely excited poles of a Holtz machine or other source of
very high tension possess double refracting powers, in other words can rotate a beam of polarized
light, or can develop two complimentary beams from common light. Bisulphide of carbon shows
the phenomenon well, acting as glass would if the glass were stretched in the direction of
the electrostatic lines of force. To try it with glass, holes are drilled in a plate and wires
from an influence machine are inserted therein. The discharge being maintained through the
glass it polarizes light.

Synonym--Kerr Effect.

Electrostatic Series. A table of substances arranged in the order in which they are electrostatically
charged by contact, generally by rubbing against each other. The following series is due to
Faraday. The first members become positively excited when rubbed with any of the following
members, and vice versa. The first elements correspond to the carbon plate in a galvanic battery,
the succeeding elements to the zinc plate.

Cat, and Bear-skin--Flannel--Ivory--Feathers--Rock Crystal--Flint Glass--Cotton--Linen--Canvas--White
Silk--the Hand--Wood--Shellac--the Metals (Iron-Copper-Brass-Tin-Silver-Platinum)--Sulphur.
There are some irregularities. A feather lightly drawn over canvas is negatively electrified;
if drawn through folds pressed against it it is positively excited. Many other exceptions exist,
so that the table is of little value.

236   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Electrostatic Stress. The stress produced upon a transparent medium in an electrostatic field
of force by which it acquires double refracting or polarizing properties as regards the action
of such medium upon light. (See Electrostatic Refraction.)

Electro-therapeutics or Therapy. The science treating of the effects of electricity upon the
animal system in the treatment and diagnosis of disease.

Electrotonus. An altered condition of functional activity occurring in a nerve subjected to
the passage of an electric current. If the activity is decreased, which occurs near the anode,
the state is one of anelectrotonus, if the activity is increased which occurs near the kathode
the condition is one of kathelectrotonus.

Electrotype. The reproduction of a form of type or of an engraving or of the like by electroplating,
for printing purposes. The form of type is pressed upon a surface of wax contained in a shallow
box. The wax is mixed with plumbago, and if necessary some more is dusted and brushed over
its surface and some iron dust is sprinkled over it also. A matrix or impression of the type
is thus obtained, on which copper is deposited by electroplating, q. v.

Element, Chemical. The original forms of matter that cannot be separated into constituents
by any known process. They are about seventy in number. Some of the rarer ones are being added
to or cancelled with the progress of chemical discovery. For their electric relations see Electro-chemical
Equivalents--Electro-chemical Series.

The elements in entering into combination satisfy chemical affinity and liberate energy, which
may take the form of electric energy as in the galvanic battery, or of heat energy, as in the
combustion of carbon or magnesium. Therefore an uncombined element is the seat of potential
energy. (See Energy, Potential.) In combining the elements always combine in definite proportions.
A series of numbers, one being proper to each element which denote the smallest common multipliers
of these proportions, are called equivalents. Taking the theory of valency into consideration
the product of the equivalents by the valencies gives the atomic weights.

237   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Element, Mathematical. A very small part of anything, corresponding in a general way to a differential,
as the element of a current.

Element of a Battery Cell. The plates in a galvanic couple are termed elements, as the carbon
and zinc plates in a Bunsen cell. The plate unattacked by the solution, as the carbon plate
in the above battery, is termed the negative plate or element; the one attacked, as the zinc
plate, is termed the positive plate or element.

Synonym--Voltaic Element.

Elements, Electrical Classification of. This may refer to Electro-chemical Series, Electrostatic
Series, or Thermo-electric Series, all of which may be referred to.

Element, Thermo-electric. One of the metals or other conductors making a thermo-electric couple,
the heating of whose junction produces electro-motive force and a current, if on closed circuit.
The elements of a couple are respectively positive and negative, and most conductors can be
arranged in a series according to their relative polarity. (See Thermo-electric Series.)

Elongation. The throw of the magnetic needle. (See Throw.)

Synonym--Throw.

Embosser, Telegraph. A telegraphic receiver giving raised characters on a piece of paper. It
generally refers to an apparatus of the old Morse receiver type, one using a dry point stylus,
which pressing the paper into a groove in the roller above the paper, gave raised characters
in dots and lines.

Fig. 163. MORSE RECEIVER.

238   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

E. M. D. P. Abbreviation for "electro-motive difference of potential" or for electro-motive
force producing a current as distinguished from mere inert potential difference.

E. M. F. Abbreviation for "electro-motive force."

Fig. 164. END-ON METHOD.

Endosmose, Electric. The inflowing current of electric osmose. (See Osmose, Electric.)

End Play. The power to move horizontally in its bearings sometimes given to armature shafts.
This secures a more even wearing of the commutator faces. End play is not permissible in disc
armatures, as the attraction of the field upon the face of the armature core would displace
it endwise. For such armatures thrust-bearings preventing end play have to be provided.

Energy. The capacity for doing work. It is measured by work units which involve the exercise
of force along a path of some length. A foot-pound, centimeter-gram, and centimeter-dyne are
units of energy and work.

The absolute unit of energy is the erg, a force of one dyne exercised over one centimeter of
space. (See Dyne.)

The dimensions of energy are
  force (M * L / T^2) * space (L) = M * (L^2 / T^2).
Energy may be chemical (atomic or molecular), mechanical,
electrical, thermal, physical, potential, kinetic, or actual, and other
divisions could be formulated.

239   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Energy, Atomic. The potential energy due to atomic relations set free by atomic change; a form
of chemical energy, because chemistry refers to molecular as well as to atomic changes. When
atomic energy loses the potential form it immediately manifests itself in some other form,
such as heat or electric energy. It may be considered as always being potential energy. (See
Energy, Chemical.)

Energy, Chemical. A form of potential energy (see Energy, Potential) possessed by elements
in virtue of their power of combining with liberation of energy, as in the combination of carbon
with oxygen in a furnace; or by compounds in virtue of their power of entering into other combinations
more satisfying to the affinities of their respective elements or to their own molecular affinity.
Thus in a galvanic couple water is decomposed with absorption of energy, but its oxygen combines
with zinc with evolution of greater amount of energy, so that in a voltaic couple the net result
is the setting free of chemical energy, which is at once converted into electrical energy in
current form, if the battery is on a closed circuit.

Energy, Conservation of. A doctrine accepted as true that the sum of energy in the universe
is fixed and invariable. This precludes the possibility of perpetual motion. Energy may be
unavailable to man, and in the universe the available energy is continually decreasing, but
the total energy is the same and never changes.

Energy, Degradation of. The reduction of energy to forms in which it cannot be utilized by
man. It involves the reduction of potential energy to kinetic energy, and the reduction of
kinetic energy of different degrees to energy of the same degree. Thus when the whole universe
shall have attained the same temperature its energy will have become degraded or non-available.
At present in the sun we have a source of kinetic energy of high degree, in coal a source of
potential energy. The burning of all the coal will be an example of the reduction of potential
to kinetic energy, and the cooling of the sun will illustrate the lowering in degree of kinetic
energy. (See Energy, Conservation of--Energy, Potential--Energy, Kinetic.)

Energy, Electric.
The capacity for doing work possessed by electricity
under proper conditions. Electric energy may be either kinetic or
potential. As ordinary mechanical energy is a product of force and
space, so electric energy is a product of potential difference and
quantity. Thus a given number of coulombs of electricity in falling a
given number of volts develop electric energy. The dimensions are found
therefore by multiplying electric current intensity quantity
  ((M^.5) * (L^.5)),
by electric potential
  ((M^.5)*(L^1.5) / (T^2)),
giving (M * (L^2)/(T^2)),
the dimensions of energy in general as it should be.

The absolute unit of electric energy in electro-magnetic measure is (1E-7) volt coulombs.

240   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The practical unit is the volt-coulomb. As the volt is equal to 1E8 absolute units of potential
and the coulomb to 0.1 absolute units of quantity, the volt-coulomb is equal to 1E7 absolute
units of energy.

The volt-coulomb is very seldom used, and the unit of Electric Activity or Power (see Power,
Electric), the volt-ampere, is universally used. This unit is sometimes called the Watt, q.
v., and it indicates the rate of expenditure or of production of electric energy.

The storing up in a static accumulator or condenser of a given charge of electricity, available
for use with a given change of potential represents potential electric energy.

The passing of a given quantity through a conductor with a given fall of potential represents
kinetic electric energy.

In a secondary battery there is no storage of energy, but the charging current simply accumulates
potential chemical energy in the battery, which chemical energy is converted into electric
energy in the discharge or delivery of the battery.

It is customary to discuss Ohm's law in this connection; it is properly treated under Electric
Power, to which the reader is referred. (See Power, Electric.)

Energy, Electric Transmission of. If an electric current passes through a conductor all its
energy is expended in the full circuit. Part of the circuit may be an electrical generator
that supplies energy as fast as expended. Part of the circuit may be a motor which absorbs
part of the energy, the rest being expended in forcing a current through the connecting wires
and through the generator. The electric energy in the generator and connecting wires is uselessly
expended by conversion into heat. That in the motor in great part is utilized by conversion
into mechanical energy which can do useful work. This represents the transmission of energy.
Every electric current system represents this operation, but the term is usually restricted
to the transmission of comparatively large quantities of energy.

A typical installation might be represented thus. At a waterfall a turbine water wheel is established
which drives a dynamo. From the dynamo wires are carried to a distant factory, where a motor
or several motors are established, which receive current from the dynamo and drive the machinery.
The same current, if there is enough energy, may be used for running lamps or electroplating.
As electric energy (see Energy, Electric,) is measured by the product of potential difference
by quantity, a very small wire will suffice for the transmission of a small current at a high
potential, giving a comparatively large quantity of energy. It is calculated that the energy
of Niagara Falls could be transmitted through a circuit of iron telegraph wire a distance of
over 1,000 miles, but a potential difference of 135,000,000 volts would be required, something
quite impossible to obtain or manage.

241  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Energy, Kinetic. Energy due to matter being actually in motion. It is sometimes called actual
energy. The energy varies directly with the mass and with the square of the velocity. It is
represented in formula by .5 *M * (v^2).

Synonyms--Actual Energy--Energy of Motion--Dynamic Energy.

Energy, Mechanical. The energy due to mechanical change or motion, virtually the same as molar
energy. (See Energy, Molar.)

Energy, Molar. The energy of masses of matter due to movements of or positions of matter in
masses; such as the kinetic energy of a pound or of a ton in motion, or the potential energy
of a pound at an elevation of one hundred feet.

Energy, Molecular. The potential energy due to the relations of molecules and set free by their
change in the way of combination. It is potential for the same reason that applies to atomic
and chemical energy, of which latter it is often a form, although it is often physical energy.
The potential energy stored up in vaporization is physical and molecular energy; the potential
energy stored up in uncombined potassium oxide and water, or calcium oxide (quicklime) and
water is molecular, and when either two substances are brought together kinetic, thermal or
heat energy is set free, as in slaking lime for mortar.

Energy of an Electrified Body. An electrified body implies the other two elements of a condenser.
It is the seat of energy set free when discharged. (See Dielectric, Energy of.) The two oppositely
charged bodies tend to approach. This tendency, together with the distances separating them,
represents a potential energy.

Energy of Stress. Potential energy due to stress, as the stretching of a spring. This is hardly
a form of potential energy. A stressed spring is merely in a position to do work at the expense
of its own thermal or kinetic energy because it is cooled in doing work. If it possessed true
potential energy of stress it would not be so cooled.

Energy of Position. Potential energy due to position, as the potential energy of a pound weight
raised ten feet (ten foot lbs.). (See Energy, Potential.)

Energy, Physical. The potential energy stored up in physical position or set free in physical
change. Thus a vapor or gas absorbs energy in its vaporization, which is potential energy,
and appears as heat energy when the vapor liquefies.

242   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Energy, Potential, or Static Energy. The capacity for doing work in a system due to advantage
of position or other cause, such as the stress of a spring. A pound weight supported ten feet
above a plane has ten foot lbs. of potential energy of position referred to that plane. A given
weight of an elementary substance represents potential chemical energy, which will be liberated
as actual energy in its combination with some other element for which it has an affinity. Thus
a ton of coal represents a quantity of potential chemical energy which appears in the kinetic
form of thermal energy when the coal is burning in a furnace. A charged Leyden jar represents
a source of potential electric energy, which becomes kinetic heat energy as the same is discharged.

Energy, Thermal. A form of kinetic molecular energy due to the molecular motion of bodies caused
by heat.

Entropy. Non-available energy. As energy may in some way or other be generally reduced to heat,
it will be found that the equalizing of temperature, actual and potential, in a system, while
it leaves the total energy unchanged, makes it all unavailable, because all work represents
a fall in degree of energy or a fall in temperature. But in a system such as described no such
fall could occur, therefore no work could be done. The universe is obviously tending in that
direction. On the earth the exhaustion of coal is in the direction of degradation of its high
potential energy, so that the entropy of the universe tends to zero. (See Energy, Degradation of.)

Entropy, Electric. Clerk Maxwell thought it possible to recognize in the Peltier effect, q.
v., a change in entropy, a gain or loss according to whether the thermo-electric junction was
heated or cooled. This is termed Electric Entropy. (See Energy, Degradation of.)

243  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 165. EPINUS' CONDENSER,

Epinus' Condenser. Two circular brass plates, A and B, are mounted on insulating supports,
and arranged to be moved towards or away from each other as desired. Between them is a plate
of glass, C, or other dielectric. Pith balls may be suspended back of each brass plate as shown.
The apparatus is charged by connecting one plate to an electric machine and the other to the
earth. The capacity of the plate connected to the machine is increased by bringing near to
it the grounded plate, by virtue of the principle of bound charges. This apparatus is used
to illustrate the principles of the electric condenser. It was invented after the Leyden jar
was invented.

Fig. 166. EPINUS' CONDENSER.

E. P. S. Initials of Electrical Power Storage; applied to a type of secondary battery made
by a company bearing that title.

Fig. 167. CAM EQUALIZER.

244   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Equalizer. In electro-magnetic mechanism an arrangement for converting the pull of the electro-magnet
varying in intensity greatly over its range of action, into a pull of sensibly equal strength
throughout. The use of a rocking lever acting as a cam, with leverage varying as the armature
approaches or recedes from the magnet core is one method of effecting the result. Such is shown
in the cut. E is an electro-magnet, with armature a. A and B are the equalizer cams. The pull
on the short end of the cam B is sensibly equal for its whole length.

Many other methods have been devised, involving different shapes of pole pieces, armatures
or mechanical devices other than the one just shown.

Equipotential. adj. Equal in potential; generally applied to surfaces. Thus every magnetic
field is assumed to be made up of lines of force and intersecting those lines, surfaces, plane,
or more or less curved in contour, can be determined, over all parts of each one of which the
magnetic intensity will be identical. Each surface is the locus of equal intensity. The same
type of surface can be constructed for any field of force, such as an electrostatic field,
and is termed an equipotential surface.

Equipotential Surface, Electrostatic. A surface in an electrostatic field of force, which is
the locus of all points of a given potential in such field; a surface cutting all the lines
of force at a point of identical potential. Lines of force are cut perpendicularly by an equipotential
surface, or are normal thereto.

Equipotential Surface, Magnetic and Electro-magnetic. A surface bearing the same relation to
a magnetic or electro-magnetic field of force that an electrostatic equipotential surface (see
Equipotential Surface, Electrostatic,) does to an electrostatic field of force.

Equivalent, Chemical. The quotient obtained by dividing the atomic weight of an element by
its valency.

Equivalents, Electro-chemical. The weight of any substance set free by one coulomb of electricity.
The following give some equivalents expressed in milligrams:

Hydrogen            .0105    Mercury (mercurous)   2.10 Gold                .6877    Iron (ferric)
.1964 Silver             1.134     Iron (ferrous)         .294 Copper (cupric)     .3307  
Nickel                 .3098 Mercury (mercuric) 1.05      Zinc                   .3413 Lead
1.0868    Chlorine               .3728 Oxygen              .89

245   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Equivalent, Electro-mechanical.
The work or energy equivalent to unit quantities of electric energy, q.
v.; or equivalent to a unit current in a conductor whose ends differ one
unit of potential. The unit of electric energy taken is the watt-second
or volt-coulomb. One volt-coulomb is equal to
  Ergs                  1E7   [10000000]
  Foot Pound           .737337
  Gram-degree C.       .24068
  Horse Power Second   .0013406
  Pound-degree F.      .000955
  One horse power is equal to 745.943 volt coulombs per second.

Equivalent, Electro-thermal.
The heat produced by a unit current passing through a conductor with
unit difference of potential at its ends; the heat equivalent of a
volt-coulomb or watt-second. It is equal to
  Gram-degree C.   .24068
  Pound-degree F.  .000955

Equivalent, Thermo-chemical. The calories evolved by the combination of one gram of any substance
with its equivalent of another substance being determined, the product obtained by multiplying
this number by the equivalent (atomic or molecular weight / valency) of the first element or
substance is the thermo-chemical equivalent. If expressed in kilogram calories, the product
of the thermo-chemical equivalent by 0.43 gives the voltage required to effect such decomposition.

The following are thermo-chemical equivalents of a few combinations:
  Water                34.5
  Zinc oxide           43.2
  Iron protoxide       34.5
  Iron Sesquioxide     31.9 X 3
  Copper oxide         19.2

Equivolt. "The mechanical energy of one volt electro-motive force exerted under unit conditions
through one equivalent of chemical action in grains." (J. T. Sprague.) This unit is not in
general use as the unit of electric energy, the volt-coulomb and (for rate of electric energy)
the volt-ampere being always used.

Erg. The absolute or fundamental C. G. S. unit of work or energy. The work done or energy expended
in moving a body through one centimeter against a resistance of one dyne.

Erg-ten. Ten millions of ergs, or ten meg-ergs.

Escape. A term applied to leakage of current.

Etching, Electric. A process of producing an etched plate. The plate is coated with wax, and
the design traced through as in common etching. It is then placed in a bath and is connected
to the positive terminal from a generator, whose negative is immersed in the same bath, so
that the metal is dissolved by electrolytic action. By attaching to the other terminal and
using a plating bath, a rough relief plate may be secured, by deposition in the lines of metal
by electroplating.

Synonym--Electric Engraving.

246   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Ether. The ether is a hypothetical thing that was invented to explain the phenomena of light.
Light is theoretically due to transverse vibrations of the ether. Since the days of Young the
conception of the ether has extended, and now light, "radiant heat," and electricity are all
treated as phenomena of the ether. Electrical attraction and repulsion are explained by considering
them due to local stresses in the ether; magnetic phenomena as due to local whirlpools therein.
The ether was originally called the luminiferous ether, but the adjective should now be dropped.
Its density is put at 936E-21 that of water, or equal to that of the atmosphere at 210 miles
above the earth's surface. Its rigidity is about 1E-9 that of steel (see Ten, Powers of); as
a whole it is comparable to an all-pervading jelly, with almost perfect elasticity. The most
complete vacuum is filled with ether.

All this is a hypothesis, for the ether has never been proved to exist. Whether gravitation
will ever be explained by It remains to be seen.

Eudiometer. A graduated glass tube for measuring the volumes of gases. In its simplest form
it is simply a cylindrical tube, with a scale etched or engraved upon it, closed at one end
and open at the other. The gas to be measured is collected in it over a liquid, generally water,
dilute sulphuric acid in the gas voltameter, or mercury. Many different shapes have been given
them by Hoffmann, Ure, Bunsen and others.

Evaporation, Electric. The superficial sublimation or evaporation of a substance under the
influence of negative electricity. It is one of the effects investigated by Crookes in his
experiments with high vacua. He found that when a metal, even so infusible as platinum, was
exposed to negative electrification in one of his high vacuum tubes, that it was volatilized
perceptibly. A cadmium electrode heated and electrified negatively was found to give a strong
coating of metal on the walls of the tube. Even in the open air the evaporation of water was
found to be accelerated by negative electrification.

Exchange, Telephone. The office to which telephone wires lead in a general telephone system.
In the office by a multiple switch board, or other means, the different telephones are interconnected
by the office attendants, so that any customers who desire it may be put into communication
with each other. The exchange is often termed the Central Office, although it may be only a
branch office.

Excitability, Faradic. The action produced in nerve or muscle of the animal system by an alternating
or intermitting high potential discharge from an induction coil.

247   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Excitability, Galvanic. The same as Faradic excitability, except that it refers to the effects
of the current from a galvanic battery.

Excitability of Animal System, Electric. The susceptibility of a nerve or muscle to electric
current shown by the effect produced by its application.

Exciter. A generator used for exciting the field magnet of a dynamo. In alternating current
dynamos, e. g., of the Westinghouse type, a special dynamo is used simply to excite the field
magnet. In central station distribution the same is often done for direct current dynamos.

Exosmose, Electric. The outflowing current of electric osmose. (See Osmose, Electric.)

Expansion, Coefficient of. The number expressing the proportional increase in size, either
length, area or volume, of a substance under the influence generally of heat. There are three
sets of coefficients, (1) of linear expansion, (2) of superficial expansion, (3) of cubic expansion
or expansion of volume. The first and third are the only ones much used. They vary for different
substances, and for the same substance at different temperatures. They are usually expressed
as decimals indicating the mixed number referred to the length or volume of the body at the
freezing point as unity.

Expansion, Electric. (a) The increase in volume of a condenser, when charged electrostatically.
A Leyden jar expands when charged, and contracts when discharged.

(b) The increase in length of a bar of iron when magnetized.

This is more properly called magnetic expansion or magnetic elongation.

Exploder. (a) A small magneto-generator for producing a current for heating the wire in an
electric fuse of the Abel type (see Fuse, Electric), and thereby determining an explosion.

(b) The term may also be applied to a small frictional or influence machine for producing a
spark for exploding a spark fuse.

Explorer. A coil, similar to a magnetizing coil (see Coil, Magnetizing), used for investigating
the electro-magnetic circuit and for similar purposes. If placed around an electro-magnet and
connected with a galvanometer, it will produce a deflection, owing to a momentary induced current,
upon any change in the magnet, such as removing or replacing the armature. It is useful in
determining the leakage of lines of force and for general investigations of that nature. It
is often called an exploring coil. Hughes' Induction Balance (see Induction Balance, Hughes')
is sometimes called a Magnetic Explorer. The exploring coil may be put in circuit with a galvanometer
for quantitative measurements or with a telephone for qualitative ones.

248   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Extension Bell Call. A system of relay connection, q. v., by which a bell is made to continue
ringing after the current has ceased coming over the main line. It is designed to prolong the
alarm given by a magneto call bell, q. v., which latter only rings as long as the magneto handle
is turned. A vibrating electric bell (see Bell, Electric,) is connected in circuit with a local
battery and a switch normally open, but so constructed as to close the circuit when a current
is passed and continue to do so indefinitely. The distant circuit is connected to this switch.
When the magneto is worked it acts upon the switch, closes the local battery circuit and leaves
it closed, while the bell goes on ringing until the battery is exhausted or the switch is opened
by hand.

Eye, Electro-magnetic. An apparatus used in exploring a field of electro-magnetic radiations.
It is a piece of copper wire 2 millimeters (.08 inch) in diameter, bent into an almost complete
circle 70 millimeters (.28 inch) in diameter, with terminals separated by an air gap. This
is moved about in the region under examination, and by the production of a spark indicates
the locality of the loops or venters in systems of stationary waves.

F. Abbreviation for Fahrenheit, as 10º F., meaning 10º Fahrenheit. (See Fahrenheit Scale.)

Fahrenheit Scale. A thermometer scale in use in the United States and England. On this scale
the temperature of melting ice is 32°; that of condensing steam is 212°; the degrees are all
of equal length. Its use is indicated by the letter F., as 180° F. To convert its readings
into centigrade, subtract 32 and multiply by 5/9. (b) To convert centigrade into F. multiply
by 9/5 and add 32. Thus 180° F. = ((180-32) * 5/9)° C. = 82.2° C. Again 180° C. = (180 * 9/5)
+ 32 = 324° F.

The additions and subtractions must be algebraic in all cases. Thus when the degrees are minus
or below zero the rules for conversion might be put thus: To convert degrees F. below zero
into centigrade to the number of degrees F. add 32, multiply by 5/9 and place a minus sign
(-) before it. (b) To convert degrees centigrade below zero into Fahrenheit, multiply the number
of degrees by 9/5, subtract from 32 if smaller; if greater than 32 subtract 32 therefrom, and
prefix a minus sign, thus: -10° C. = 32 - (10 * 9/5) = 14°. Again, -30°C. = (30 * 9/5) - 32
= 22 = -22° F.

249  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Farad. The practical unit of electric capacity; the capacity of a conductor which can retain
one coulomb of electricity at a potential of one volt.

The quantity of electricity charged upon a conducting surface raises its potential; therefore
a conductor of one farad capacity can hold two coulombs at two volts potential, and three coulombs
at three volts, and so on. The electric capacity of a conductor, therefore, is relative compared
to others as regards its charge, for the latter may be as great as compatible with absence
of sparking and disruptive discharge. In other words, a one farad or two farad conductor may
hold a great many coulombs. Charging a conductor with electricity is comparable to pumping
air into a receiver. Such a vessel may hold one cubic foot of air at atmospheric pressure and
two at two atmospheres, and yet be of one cubic foot capacity however much air is pumped into it.

The farad is equal to one fundamental electrostatic unit of capacity multiplied by 9E11 and
to one electro-magnetic unit multiplied by 1E-9.

The farad although one of the practical units is far too large, so the micro-farad is used
in its place. The capacity of a sphere the size of the earth is only .000636 of a farad.

Faraday, Effect. The effect of rotation of its plane produced upon a polarized beam of light
by passage through a magnetic field. (See Magnetic Rotary Polarization.)

Faraday's Cube. To determine the surface action of a charge, Faraday constructed a room, twelve
feet cube, insulated, and lined with tinfoil. This room he charged to a high potential, but
within it he could detect no excitement whatever. The reason was because the electricity induced
in the bodies within the room was exactly equal to the charge of the room-surface, and was
bound exactly by it. The room is termed Faraday's cube.

Faraday's Dark Space. A non-luminous space between the negative and positive glows, produced
in an incompletely exhausted tube through which a static discharge, as from an induction coil,
is produced. It is perceptible in a rarefaction of 6 millimeters (.24 inch) and upwards. If
the exhaustion is very high a dark space appears between the negative electrode and its discharge.
This is known as Crookes' dark space.

Faraday's Disc. A disc of any metal, mounted so as to be susceptible of rotation in a magnetic
field of force, with its axis parallel to the general direction of the lines of force. A spring
bears against its periphery and another spring against its axle. When rotated, if the springs
are connected by a conductor, a current is established through the circuit including the disc
and conductor. The radius of the disc between the spring contacts represents a conductor cutting
lines of force and generating a potential difference, producing a current. If a current is
sent through the motionless wheel from centre to periphery it rotates, illustrating the doctrine
of reversibility. As a motor it is called Barlow's or Sturgeon's Wheel. If the disc without
connections is rapidly rotated it produces Foucault currents, q. v., within its mass, which
resist its rotation and heat the disc.

250   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 168. "FARADAY'S NET."

Faraday's Net. An apparatus for showing that the electric charge resides on the surface. It
consists of a net, conical in shape and rather deep, to whose apex two threads, one on each
side, are attached. Its mouth is fastened to a vertical ring and the whole is mounted on an
insulating support.

It is pulled out to its full extent and is electrified. No charge can be detected inside it.
By pulling one of the threads it is turned with the other side out. Now all the charge is found
on the outside just as before, except that it is of course on the former inside surface of
the bag. The interior shows no charge.

Faraday's Transformer. The first transformer. It was made by Michael Faraday. It was a ring
of soft iron 7/8 inch thick, and 6 inches in external diameter. It was wound with bare wire,
calico being used to prevent contact of the wire with the ring and of the layers of wire with
each other, while twine was wound between the convolutions to prevent the wires from touching.
Seventy-two feet of copper wire, 1/20 inch diameter, were wound in three superimposed coils,
covering about one-half of the ring. On the other half sixty feet of copper wire were wound
in two superimposed coils. Faraday connected his coils in different ways and used a galvanometer
to measure the current produced by making and breaking one of the circuits used as a primary.

The coil is of historic interest.

Faraday's Voltameter. A voltameter, in which the coulombs of current are measured by the volume
of the gas evolved from acidulated water. (See Voltameter, Gas.)

Faradic. adj. Referring to induced currents, produced from induction coils. As Faraday was
the original investigator of the phenomena of electro-magnetic induction, the secondary or
induced electro-magnetic currents and their phenomena and apparatus are often qualified by
the adjective Faradic, especially in electro-therapeutics. A series of alternating electrostatic
discharges, as from an influence machine (Holtz), are sometimes called Franklinic currents.
They are virtually Faradic, except as regards their production.

251   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Faradic Brush. A brush for application of electricity to the person. It is connected as one
of the electrodes of an induction coil or magneto generator. For bristles wire of nickel plated
copper is generally employed.

Faradization. In medical electricity the analogue of galvanization; the effects due to secondary
or induced currents; galvanization referring to currents from a galvanic battery; also the
process of application of such currents.

Faults. Sources of loss of current or of increased resistance or other troubles in electric
circuits.

Feeder. A lead in an electric central station distribution system, which lead runs from the
station to some point in the district to supply current. It is not used for any side connections,
but runs direct to the point where current is required, thus "feeding" the district directly.
In the two wire system a feeder may be positive or negative; in the three wire system there
is also a neutral feeder. Often the term feeder includes the group of two or of three parallel
lines.

Feeder Equalizer. An adjustable resistance connected in circuit with a feeder at the central
station. The object of the feeder being to maintain a definite potential difference at its
termination, the resistance has to be varied according to the current it is called on to carry.

Feeder, Main or Standard. The main feeder of a district. The standard regulation of pressure
(potential difference between leads) in the district is often determined by the pressure at
the end of the feeder.

Feeder, Negative. The lead or wire in a set of feeders, which is connected to the negative
terminal of the generator.

Feeder, Neutral. In the three wire system the neutral wire in a set of feeders. It is often
made of less diameter than the positive and negative leads.

Feeder, Positive. The lead or wire in a set of feeders, which wire is connected to the positive
terminal of the generator.

Ferranti Effect. An effect as yet not definitely explained, observed in the mains of the Deptford,
Eng., alternating current plant. It is observed that the potential difference between the members
of a pair of mains rises or increases with the distance the place of trial is from the station.

252  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Ferro-magnetic. adj. Paramagnetic; possessing the magnetic polarity of iron.

Fibre and Spring Suspension. A suspension of the galvanometer needle used in marine galvanometers.
The needle is supported at its centre of gravity by a vertically stretched fibre attached at
both its ends, but with a spring intercalated between the needle and one section of the fibre.

Fibre Suspension. Suspension, as of a galvanometer needle, by a vertical or hanging fibre of
silk or cocoon fibre, or a quartz fibre. (See Quartz.)

This suspension, while the most delicate and reliable known, is very subject to disturbance
and exacts accurate levelling of the instrument.

Fibre suspension is always characterized by a restitutive force. Pivot suspension, q. v., on
the other hand, has no such force.

Field, Air. A field the lines of force of which pass through air; the position of a field comprised
within a volume of air.

Field, Alternating. Polarity or direction being attributed to lines of force, if such polarity
is rapidly reversed, an alternating field results. Such field may be of any kind, electro-magnetic
or electrostatic. In one instance the latter is of interest. It is supposed to be produced
by high frequency discharges of the secondary of an induction coil, existing in the vicinity
of the discharging terminals.

Field Density. Field density or density of field is expressed in lines of force per unit area
of cross-section perpendicular to the lines of force.

Field, Distortion of. The lines of force reaching from pole to pole of an excited field magnet
of a dynamo are normally symmetrical with respect to some axis and often with respect to several.
They go across from pole to pole, sometimes bent out of their course by the armature core,
but still symmetrical. The presence of a mass of iron in the space between the pole pieces
concentrates the lines of force, but does not destroy the symmetry of the field.

When the armature of the dynamo is rotated the field becomes distorted, and the lines of force
are bent out of their natural shape. The new directions of the lines of force are a resultant
of the lines of force of the armature proper and of the field magnet. For when the dynamo is
started the armature itself becomes a magnet, and plays its part in forming the field. Owing
to the lead of the brushes the polarity of the armature is not symmetrical with that of the
field magnets. Hence the compound field shows distortion. In the cut is shown diagrammatically
the distortion of field in a dynamo with a ring armature. The arrow denotes the direction of
rotation, and n n * * * and s s * * * indicate points of north and south polarity respectively.

253  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The distorted lines must be regarded as resultants of the two induced polarities of the armature,
one polarity due to the induction of the field, the other to the induction from its own windings.
The positions of the brushes have much to do with determining the amount and degree of distortion.
In the case of the ring armature it will be seen that some of the lines of force within the
armature persist in their polarity and direction, almost as induced by the armature windings
alone, and leak across without contributing their quota to the field. Two such lines are shown
in dotted lines.

In motors there is a similar but a reversed distortion.

Fig. 169. DISTORTION OF FIELD IN A RING ARMATURE OF AN ACTIVE DYNAMO.

Fig. 170. DISTORTION OF FIELD IN A RING ARMATURE OF AN ACTIVE MOTOR.

254   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Field, Drag of. When a conductor is moved through a field so that a current is generated in
it, the field due to that current blends with the other field and with its lines of force,
distorting the field, thereby producing a drag upon its own motion, because lines of force
always tend to straighten themselves, and the straightening would represent cessation of motion
in the conductor. This tendency to straightening therefore resists the motion of the conductor
and acts a drag upon it.

Field of Force. The space in the neighborhood of an attracting or repelling mass or system.
Of electric fields of force there are two kinds, the Electrostatic and the Magnetic Fields
of Force, both of which may be referred to. A field of force may be laid out as a collection
of elements termed Lines of Force, and this nomenclature is universally adopted in electricity.
The system of lines may be so constructed that (a) the work done in passing from one equipotential
surface to the next is always the same; or (b) the lines of force are so laid out and distributed
that at a place in which unit force is exercised there is a single line of force passing through
the corresponding equipotential surface in each unit of area of that surface. The latter is
the universal method in describing electric fields. It secures the following advantages:--First:
The potential at any point in the field of space surrounding the attracting or repelling mass
or masses is found by determining on which imaginary equipotential surface that point lies.
Second: If unit length of a line of force cross n equipotential surfaces, the mean force along
that line along the course of that part of it is equal to n units; for the difference of potential
of the two ends of that part of the line of force = n; it is also equal to F s (F = force),
because it represents numerically a certain amount of work; but s = I, whence n = F. Third:
The force at any part of the field corresponds to the extent to which the lines of force are
crowded together; and thence it may be determined by the number of lines of force which pass
through a unit of area of the corresponding equipotential surface, that area being so chosen
as to comprise the point in question. (Daniell.)

Field of Force, Electrostatic. The field established by the attracting, repelling and stressing
influence of an electrostatically charged body. It is often termed an Electrostatic Field.
(See Field of Force.)

255   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Field of Force of a Current. A current establishes a field of force around itself, whose lines
of force form circles with their centres on the axis of the current. The cut, Fig. 172, shows
the relation of lines of force to current.

Fig. 171. EXPERIMENT SHOWING LINES OF FORCE SURROUNDING AN ACTIVE CONDUCTOR.

Fig. 172. DIAGRAM OF FIELD OF FORCE SURROUNDING AN ACTIVE CONDUCTOR.

Fig. 173. LINK OF FORCE INDUCED BY A CURRENT SHOWING THE MAGNETIC WHIRLS.

The existence of the field is easily shown by passing a conductor vertically through a horizontal
card. On causing a current to go through the wire the field is formed, and iron filings dropped
upon the card, tend, when the latter is gently tapped, to take the form of circles. The experiment
gives a version of the well-known magnetic figures, q. v. See Fig. 171.

The cut shows by the arrows the relation of directions of current to the direction of the lines
of force, both being assumptions, and merely indicating certain fixed relations, corresponding
exactly to the relations expressed by the directions of electro-magnetic or magnetic lines of force

256   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Field, Pulsatory. A field produced by pulsatory currents. By induction such field can produce
an alternating current.

Field, Rotating. In a dynamo the field magnets are sometimes rotated instead of the armature,
the latter being stationary. In Mordey's alternator the armature, nearly cylindrical, surrounds
the field, and the latter rotates within it, the arrangement being nearly the exact reverse
of the ordinary one. This produces a rotating field.

Field, Rotatory. A magnetic field whose virtual poles keep rotating around its centre of figure.
If two alternating currents differing one quarter period in phase are carried around four magnetizing
coils placed and connected in sets of two on the same diameter and at right angles to each
other, the polarity of the system will be a resultant of the combination of their polarity,
and the resultant poles will travel round and round in a circle. In such a field, owing to
eddy currents, masses of metal, journaled like an armature, will rotate, with the speed of
rotation of the field.

Field, Stray. The portion of a field of force outside of the regular circuit; especially applied
to the magnetic field of force of dynamos expressing the portion which contributes nothing
to the current generation.

Synonym--Waste Field.

Field, Uniform. A field of force of uniform density. (See Field Density.)

Figure of Merit. In the case of a galvanometer, a coefficient expressing its delicacy. It is
the reciprocal of the current required to deflect the needle through one degree. By using the
reciprocal the smaller the current required the larger is the figure of merit. The same term
may be applied to other instruments.

It is often defined as the resistance of a circuit through which one Daniell's element will
produce a deflection of one degree on the scale of the instrument. The circuit includes a Daniell's
cell of resistance r, a rheostat R, galvanometer G and shunt S. Assume that with the shunt
in parallel a deflection of a divisions is obtained. The resistance of the shunted galvanometer
is (GS/G+S ; the multiplying power m of the shunt is S+G/S; the formula or figure of merit
is m d (r+R +G S/G+S).

The figure of merit is larger as the instrument is more sensitive. Synonym--Formula of Merit.

257  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Filament. A thin long piece of a solid substance. In general it is so thin as to act almost
like a thread, to be capable of standing considerable flexure. The distinction between filament
and rod has been of much importance in some patent cases concerning incandescent lamps. As
used by electricians the term generally applies to the carbon filament of incandescent lamps.
This as now made has not necessarily any fibres, but is entitled to the name of filament, partly
by convention, partly by its relative thinness and want of stiffness. (See Incandescent Lamps--Magnetic
Filament.)

Fire Alarm, Electric, Automatic. A system of telegraph circuits, at intervals supplied with
thermostats or other apparatus affected by a change of temperature, which on being heated closes
the circuit and causes a bell to ring. (See Thermostat.)

Fire Alarm Telegraph System. A system of telegraphic lines for communicating the approximate
location of a fire to a central station and thence to the separate fire-engine houses in a
city or district. It includes alarm boxes, distributed at frequent intervals, locked, with
the place where the key is kept designated, or in some systems left unlocked. On opening the
door of the box and pulling the handle or otherwise operating the alarm, a designated signal
is sent to the central station. From this it is telegraphed by apparatus worked by the central
station operator to the engine houses. The engines respond according to the discipline of the
service.

Fire Cleansing. Freeing the surface of an article to be plated from grease by heating.

Fire Extinguisher, Electric, Automatic. A modification of the electric fire alarm (see Fire
Alarm, Electric, Automatic), in which the thermostats completing the circuits turn on water
which, escaping through the building, is supposed to reach and extinguish a fire.

Flashing in a Dynamo or Magneto-electric Generator. Bad adjustment of the brushes at the commutator,
or other fault of construction causes the production of voltaic arcs at the commutator of a
generator, to which the term flashing is applied.

Flashing of Incandescent Lamp Carbons. A process of treatment for the filaments of incandescent
lamps. The chamber before sealing up is filled with a hydro-carbon vapor or gas, such as the
vapor of a very light naphtha (rhigolene). A current is then passed through the filament heating
it to redness. The more attenuated parts or those of highest resistance are heated the highest,
and decompose most rapidly the hydro-carbon vapor, graphitic carbon being deposited upon these
parts, while hydrogen is set free. This goes on until the filament is of uniform resistance
throughout. It gives also a way of making the resistance of the filament equal to any desired
number of ohms, provided it is originally of high enough resistance. The process increases
the conductivity of the filament.

After flashing the chambers are pumped out and sealed up.

258   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Flashing Over. A phenomenon observed in high potential dynamos. On a sudden alteration of the
resistance of the circuit a long blue spark will be drawn out around the surface of the commutator
from brush to brush. The spark is somewhat of the nature of an arc, and may seriously injure
commutators whose sections are only separated by mica, or other thin insulation. In the case
of commutators whose sections are separated by air spaces it is not so injurious.

Flats. In a commutator of a dynamo, the burning or wearing away of a commutator segment to
a lower level than the rest. Sometimes two adjacent bars will be thus affected, causing a flat
place on the commutator. It is not always easy to account for the formation of flats. They
may have their origin in periodic vibrations due to bad mounting, or to sparking at the particular
point.

Floor Push. A press or push button constructed to be set into the floor to be operated by pressing
with the foot. It is used to ring an alarm bell, sound a buzzer or for similar service.

Fluid, Depolarizing. A fluid used in voltaic batteries to dispose of the hydrogen, which goes
to the negative plate. This it does by oxidizing it. Chromic acid, nitric acid, and chloric
acids are among the constituents of liquid depolarizers. (See Electropoion Fluid.)

Fluid, Electric. The electric current and charge have sometimes been attributed to a fluid.
The theory, which never was much more than hypothetical, survives to some extent in the single
and double fluid theory. (See Single Fluid Theory-Double Fluid Theory.)

Fluorescence. The property of converting ether waves of one length, sometimes of invisible
length, into waves of another length (visible). AEsculin, quinine salts, uranium glass and
other substances exhibit this phenomenon. The phenomenon is utilized in the production of Geissler
tubes.

Flush Boxes. A heavy iron box covered with a heavy hand plate and laid flush (whence the name),
or even with the surface of a roadway. Into it conductors of an underground system lead, and
it is used to make connections therewith and for examining the leakage of the conductors and
for similar purposes. It is a "man-hole" (q. v.) in miniature.

Fluviograph. An electric registering tide gauge or water level gauge.

259  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fly or Flyer, Electric. A little wheel, ordinarily poised on a point, like a compass needle.
It carries several tangentially directed points, all pointing in the same sense. When connected
with a source of electricity of high potential it revolves by reaction. The tension of its
charge is highest at the points, the air there is highly electrified and repelled, the reaction
pushing the wheel around like a Barker's mill or Hero's steam engine. Sometimes the flyer is
mounted with its axis horizontal and across the rails on a railroad along which it travels.

Synonym--Reaction Wheel.

Foci Magnetic. The two points on the earth's surface where the magnetic intensity is greatest.
They nearly coincide in position with the magnetic poles.

Fog, Electric. Fogs occurring when the atmosphere is at unusually high potential and accompanied
by frequent change of such polarity.

Following Horns. In dynamo-electric machines the projecting ends of the pole pieces towards
which the outer uncovered perimeter of the armature turns in its regular operations. The leading
horns are those away from which the armature rotates. In considering rotation the exposed portion
of the superficies of the armature is considered. The definition would have to be reversed
if the part facing the pole pieces were considered.

Synonym--Trailing Horns.

Foot-candle. A unit of illuminating power; the light given by one standard candle at a distance
of one foot. The ordinary units of illuminating power are entirely relative; this is definite.
It is due to Carl Herring.

Foot-pound. A practical unit of work or energy. The quantity of work required to raise a pound
one foot, or one hundred pounds one-hundredth of a foot, and so on; or the potential energy
represented by a weight at an elevation under these conditions.

Foot-step. In a dynamo with armature at the lower end of its field magnets, the plate generally
of zinc, interposed between it and the iron base plate to prevent the leakage of lines of force
outside of the circuit. Any diamagnetic material which is mechanically suitable may be used.

Force. Force may be variously defined. (a) Any cause of change of the condition of matter with
respect to motion or rest.

