HARDY PERENNIALS

AND

Old-Fashioned Garden Flowers:

DESCRIBING

THE MOST DESIRABLE PLANTS FOR BORDERS, ROCKERIES, AND SHRUBBERIES,

INCLUDING

FOLIAGE AS WELL AS FLOWERING PLANTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY JOHN WOOD.

       *       *       *       *       *

ILLUSTRATED.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL, 170, STRAND, W. C.

1884.

LONDON: PRINTED BY A. BRADLEY, 170, STRAND, W. C.

PREFACE.

At the present time there is a growing desire to patronise perennial plants, more especially
the many and beautiful varieties known as "old-fashioned flowers." Not only do they deserve
to be cultivated on their individual merits, but for other very important reasons; they afford
great variety of form, foliage, and flower, and compared with annual and tender plants, they
are found to give much less trouble. If a right selection is made and properly planted, the
plants may be relied upon to appear with perennial vigour and produce flowers more or less
throughout the year. I would not say bouquets may be gathered in the depth of winter, but what
will be equally cheering may be had in blow, such as the Bluet, Violet, Primrose, Christmas
Rose, Crocus, Hepatica, Squills, Snowdrops, and other less known winter bloomers. It does not
seem to be generally understood that warm nooks and corners, under trees or walls, serve to
produce in winter flowers which usually appear in spring when otherwise placed.

There are many subjects which, from fine habit and foliage, even when flowerless, claim notice,
and they, too, are described.

Many gardens are very small, but these, if properly managed, have their advantages. The smaller
the garden the more choice should be the collection, and the more highly should it be cultivated.
I shall be glad if anything I say tends in this direction. From my notes of plants useful memoranda
may be made, with the object of adding a few of the freest bloomers in each month, thus avoiding
the error often committed of growing such subjects as mostly flower at one time, after which
the garden has a forlorn appearance. The plants should not be blamed for this; the selection
is at fault. No amount of time and care can make a garden what it should be if untidy and weedy
plants prevail. On the other hand, the most beautiful species, both as regards foliage and
flowers, can be just as easily cultivated.

The object of this small work is to furnish the names and descriptions of really useful and
reliable Hardy and Perennial Plants, suitable for all kinds of flower gardens, together with
definite cultural hints on each plant.

Perhaps flowers were never cultivated of more diversified kinds than at the present time; and
it is a legitimate and not uncommon question to ask, "What do you grow?" Not only have we now
the lovers of the distinct and showy, but numerous admirers of such species as need to be closely
examined, that their beautiful and interesting features may gladden and stir the mind. The
latter class of plants, without doubt, is capable of giving most pleasure; and to meet the
growing taste for these, books on flowers must necessarily treat upon the species or varieties
in a more detailed manner, in order to get at their peculiarities and requirements. The more
we learn about our flowers the more we enjoy them; to simply see bright colours and pretty
forms is far from all the pleasure we may reap in our gardens.

If I have not been able to give scientific information, possibly that of a practical kind may
be of some use, as for many years, and never more than now, I have enjoyed the cultivation
of flowers with my own hands. To be able to grow a plant well is of the highest importance,
and the first step towards a full enjoyment of it.

I have had more especially in view the wants of the less experienced Amateur; and as all descriptions
and modes of culture are given from specimens successfully grown in my own garden, I hope I
may have at least a claim to being practical.

I have largely to thank several correspondents of many years' standing for hints and information
incorporated in these pages.

                                                    J. WOOD.

  WOODVILLE, KIRKSTALL,

   November, 1883.

ERRATA.

For the placing of capital letters uniformly throughout this Volume to the specific names at
the cross-headings, and for the omission of many capitals in the body of the type, the printer
is alone responsible.

Numerous oversights fall to my lot, but in many of the descriptions other than strictly proper
botanical terms have been employed, where it seemed desirable to use more intelligible ones;
as, for instance, the flowers of the Composites have not always been termed "heads," perianths
have sometimes been called corollas, and their divisions at times petals, and so on; this is
hardly worthy of the times, perhaps, but it was thought that the terms would be more generally
understood.

  Page 7, line 8. For "lupin" read "Lupine."
  Page 39, line 31. For "calyx" read "involucre."
  Page 40, line 27. For "calyx" read "involucre."
  Page 46, line 1. For "corolla" read "perianth."
  Page 47, lines 3 and 6. For "corolla" read "perianth."
  Page 48, last line. For "lupin" read "Lupine."
  Page 60, line 16. For "pompon" read "pompone."
  Page 64, line 36. For "corolla" read "perianth."
  Page 102, line 27. For "Fritillaries" read "Fritillarias."
  Page 114, cross-heading. For "Ice-cold Gentian" read "Ice-cold
            Loving Gentian."
  Page 213. For "Tirolensis" read "Tyrolensis."
  Page 214, cross-heading. For "Cashmerianum" read "Cashmeriana."
  Page 215, cross-heading. For "Cashmerianum" read "Cashmeriana."
  Page 275, line 26. For "corolla" read "perianth."
  Page 284, line 25. For "calyx" read "involucre."
  Page 285, line 1. For "calyx" read "involucre."

                                                    JOHN WOOD.

  November 14th, 1883.

HARDY PERENNIALS

AND

OLD-FASHIONED GARDEN FLOWERS.

Acæna Novæ Zealandiæ.

Otherwise A. MICROPHYLLA; Nat. Ord. SANGUISORBEÆ, or ROSE FAMILY.

The plant, as may be seen by the illustration (Fig. 1), is small, and its flowers are microscopic,
hardly having the appearance of flowers, even when minutely examined, but when the bloom has
faded there is a rapid growth, the calyces forming a stout set of long spines; these, springing
from the globular head in considerable numbers, soon become pleasingly conspicuous, and this
is by far the more ornamental stage of the plant. It is hardy, evergreen, and creeping. It
seldom rises more than one or two inches from the ground, and only when it approaches a wall,
stones, or some such fixed body, does it show an inclination to climb; it is, therefore, a
capital rock plant. As implied by its specific name, it comes from New Zealand, and has not
long been acclimatised in this country.

The flowers are produced on fine wiry stems an inch or more long, being nearly erect; they
are arranged in round heads, at first about the size of a small pea; these, when bruised, have
an ammoniacal smell. Each minute flower has four green petals and brownish seed organs, which
cause the knob of flowers to have a rather grimy look, and a calyx which is very hard and stout,
having two scales and four sepals. These sepals are the parts which, after the seed organs
have performed their functions, become elongated and of a fine rosy-crimson colour; they form
stiff and rather stout spines, often ¾in. long; they bristle evenly from every part of the
little globe of seed vessels, and are very pretty. The spines are produced in great abundance,
and they may be cut freely; their effect is unique when used for table decoration, stuck in
tufts of dark green selaginella. On the plant they keep in good form for two months. The leaves
are 1in. to 2in. long, pinnate; the leaflets are of a dark bronzy colour on the upper side
and a pale green underneath, like maidenhair, which they also resemble in form, being nearly
round and toothed. They are in pairs, with a terminal odd one; they are largest at the extremity,
and gradually lessen to rudimentary leaflets; the foliage is but sparingly produced on the
creeping stems, which root as they creep on the surface.

The habit of the plant is compact and cushion-like, and the brilliant spiny balls are well
set off on the bed of fern-like but sombre foliage. During August it is one of the most effective
plants in the rock garden, where I find it to do well in either moist or dry situations; it
grows fast, and, being evergreen, it is one of the more useful creepers for all-the-year-round
effect; for covering dormant bulbs or bare places it is at once efficient and beautiful. It
requires light soil, and seems to enjoy grit; nowhere does it appear in better health or more
at home than when carpeting the walk or track of the rock garden.

It is self-propagating, but when it is desirable to move a tuft of it, it should be done during
the growing season, so that it may begin to root at once and get established, otherwise the
wind and frosts will displace it.

It blooms from June to September, more or less, but only the earliest flowers produce well-coloured
spines.

Achillea Ægyptica.

EGYPTIAN YARROW; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This is an evergreen (though herb-like) species. It has been grown for more than 200 years
in English gardens, and originally came, as its name implies, from Egypt. Notwithstanding the
much warmer climate of its native country, it proves to be one of the hardiest plants in our
gardens. I dare say many will think the Yarrows are not worthy of a place in the garden; but
it should not be forgotten that not only are fine and useful flowers included in this work,
but also the good "old-fashioned" kinds, and that a few such are to be found amongst the Yarrows
is without doubt. Could the reader see the collection now before me, cut with a good piece
of stem and some foliage, and pushed into a deep vase, he would not only own that they were
a pleasing contrast, but quaintly grand for indoor decoration.

A. Ægyptica not only produces a rich yellow flower, but the whole plant is ornamental, having
an abundance of finely-cut foliage, which, from a downy or nappy covering, has a pleasing grey
or silvery appearance. The flowers are produced on long stems nearly 2ft. high, furnished at
the nodes with clean grey tufts of smaller-sized leaves; near the top the stems are all but
naked, and are terminated by the flat heads or corymbs of closely-packed flowers. They are
individually small, but the corymbs will be from 2in. to 3in. across. Their form is that of
the common Yarrow, but the colour is a bright light yellow. The leaves are 6in. to 8in. long,
narrow and pinnate, the leaflets of irregular form, variously toothed and lobed; the whole
foliage is soft to the touch, from the nappy covering, as already mentioned. Its flowers, from
their extra fine colour, are very telling in a cut state. The plant is suitable for the borders,
more especially amongst other old kinds. Ordinary garden loam suits it, and its propagation
may be carried out at any time by root division.

Flowering period, June to September.

Achillea Filipendula.

Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This grows 4ft. high, and the foliage, though fern-like, has an untidy appearance, from the
irregular way in which it is disposed. It is herbaceous, and comes from the Caucasus. The flowers
are somewhat singular, arranged in corymbs of a multiplex character; they are very large, often
5in. across. The smaller corymbs are arched or convex, causing the cluster or compound corymb
to present an uneven surface; the small flowers are of rich old gold colour, and have the appearance
of knotted gold cord; they are very rigid, almost hard. The leaves are linear, pinnate, lobed
and serrated, hairy, rough, and numerously produced. From the untidy and tall habit of this
subject, it should be planted in the background; its flowers, however, will claim a prominent
position in a cut state; they are truly rich, the undulating corymbs have the appearance of
embossed gold plate, and their antique colour and form are compared to gold braid by a lady
who admires "old-fashioned" flowers. It will last for several weeks after being cut, and even
out of water for many days. A few heads placed in an old vase, without any other flowers, are
rich and characteristic, whilst on bronze figures and ewers in a dry state, and more especially
on ebony or other black decorations, it may be placed with a more than floral effect. In short,
rough as the plant is, it is worth growing for its quaint and rich flowers alone; it is seldom
met with. Soil and propagation, the same as for A. Ægyptica.

Flowering period, June to September.

Achillea Millefolium.

COMMON MILFOIL; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This is the well-known wild Yarrow; it is, however, the typical form of a fine variety, called
A. m. roseum, having very bright rose-coloured flowers, which in all other respects resembles
the wild form. Both as a border subject and for cutting purposes, I have found it useful; it
flowers for several months, but the individual blooms fade in four or six days; these should
be regularly removed. The freshly-opened corymbs are much admired. Soil and mode of propagation,
the same as for previous kinds.

Flowering period, June to November.

Achillea Ptarmica.

Syns. A. SYLVESTRIS and PTARMICA VULGARIS; Common Names, WILD YARROW, SNEEZEWORT, GOOSE-TONGUE,
and WILD PELLITORY; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

A very common British plant, or, I may say, weed, which can live in the most reeky towns, only
mentioned here to introduce A. P. fl.-pl., which is one of the most useful of border flowers.
I am bound to add, however, that only when in flower is it more presentable than the weedy
and typical form; but the grand masses of pure white bachelors'-button-like flowers, which
are produced for many weeks in succession, render this plant deserving of a place in every
garden. It is a very old flower in English gardens. Some 250 years ago Parkinson referred to
the double flowering kind, in his "Paradise of Pleasant Flowers," as a then common plant; and
I may as well produce Gerarde's description of the typical form, which answers, in all respects,
for the double one, with the exception of the flowers themselves: "The small Sneesewoort hath
many rounde and brittle braunches, beset with long and narrowe leaues, hackt about the edges
like a sawe; at the top of the stalkes do grow smal single flowers like the fielde Daisie.
The roote is tender and full of strings, creeping farre abroade in the earth, and in short
time occupieth very much grounde." The flowers of this plant are often, but wrongly, called
"bachelors' buttons," which they much resemble.

For cutting purposes, this plant is one of the most useful; not only are the blooms a good
white, but they have the quality of keeping clean, and are produced in greater numbers than
ever I saw them on the single form. Those requiring large quantities of white flowers could
not do better than give the plant a few square yards in some unfrequented part of the garden;
any kind of soil will suit it, but if enriched the bloom will be all the better for it. The
roots run freely just under the surface, so that a large stock may soon be had; yet, fine as
are its flowers, hardy and spreading as the plant proves, it is but seldom met with. Even in
small gardens this fine old flower should be allowed a little space. Transplant any time.

Flowering period, June to August.

Aconitum Autumnale.

AUTUMN MONK'S-HOOD; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

Hardy, perennial, and herbaceous. This is one of the finest subjects for autumn flowering.
The whole plant, which stands nearly 3ft. high, is stately and distinct (Fig. 2); the leaves
are dark green, large, deeply cut and veined, of good substance, and slightly drooping. The
flowers are a fine blue (a colour somewhat scarce in our gardens at that season), irregularly
arranged on very stout stems; in form they exactly resemble a monk's hood, and the manner in
which they are held from the stems further accords with that likeness. These rich flowers are
numerously produced; a three-year-old plant will have as many as six stout stems all well furnished,
rendering the specimen very conspicuous.

This is one form of the Monk's-hood long grown in English gardens, and is called "old-fashioned."
A. japonicum, according to some, is identical with it, but whether that is so or not, there
is but a slight difference, and both, of course, are good.

I find it likes a rich deep soil. It is propagated by division of the roots after the tops
have turned yellow in autumn or winter.

It flowers from August until cut down by frosts.

Allium Moly.

LARGE YELLOW GARLIC; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

A hardy bulbous perennial, of neat habit, with bright golden flowers, produced in large heads;
they endure a long time and are very effective; it is by far the best yellow species. Where
bold clumps of yellow are desirable, especially if somewhat in the background, there can be
few subjects more suitable for the purpose than this plant; both leaves and flowers, however,
have a disagreeable odour, if in the least bruised. It is a very old plant in English gardens,
and is a native of the South of Europe. Its chief merits are fine colour, large head, neat
habit, and easy culture. The flowers are 1in. across, borne in close heads, having stalks over
an inch long springing from stout scapes; the six long oval petals are of a shining yellow
colour; the seed organs also are all yellow and half the length of petals; the scape is about
a foot high, naked, round, and very stout; the leaves are nearly as broad as tulip leaves,
and otherwise much resemble them.

Flowering period, June to August.

Allium Neapolitanum.

NEAPOLITAN ALLIUM; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This has pure white flowers arranged in neat and effective umbels, and though not so useful
in colour as the flowers of A. Moly, they are much superior to those of many of the genus.

Flowering period, June to August.

Both of the above Alliums may be grown in any odd parts which need decorating with subjects
requiring little care; any kind of soil will do for them, but if planted too near the walks
the flowers are liable to be cut by persons who may not be aware of their evil odour. The bulbs
may be divided every three years with advantage, and may be usefully planted in lines in front
of shrubs, or mixed with other strong-growing flowers, such as alkanets, lupins, and foxgloves.

Alyssum Saxatile.

ROCK MADWORT, or GOLDEN TUFT; Nat. Ord. CRUCIFERÆ.

This pleasing and well-known hardy, evergreen, half-woody shrub is always a welcome flower.
From its quantity of bloom all its other parts are literally smothered (see Fig. 3). When passing
large pieces of it in full blow, its fragrant honey smell reminds one of summer clover fields.

Its golden yellow flowers are densely produced in panicles on procumbent stems, 12in. to 18in.
long. The little flowers, from distinct notches in the petals, have a different appearance
from many of the order Cruciferæ, as, unless they are well expanded, there seem to be eight
instead of four petals. The leaves are inversely ovate, lanceolate, villose, and slightly toothed.
A specimen will continue in good form during average weather for about three weeks. It is not
only seen to most advantage on rockwork, where its prostrate stems can fall over the stones,
but the dry situation is in accordance with its requirements; still, it is not at all particular,
but does well in any sunny situation, in any soil that is not over moist or ill drained. It
is easily and quickly propagated by cuttings in early summer.

Flowering period, April and May.

Anchusa Italica.

ITALIAN ALKANET; Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

A hardy herbaceous perennial of first-class merit for gardens where there is plenty of room;
amongst shrubs it will not only prove worthy of the situation, but, being a ceaseless bloomer,
its tall and leafy stems decked with brilliant flowers may always be relied upon for cutting
purposes; and let me add, as, perhaps, many have never tried this fine but common flower in
a large vase, the stems, if cut to the length of 18in., and loosely placed in an old-fashioned
vase, without any other flowers, are more than ornamental--they are fine.

Its main features are seen in its bold leafy stems, furnished with large, dark blue, forget-me-not-like
flowers, nearly all their length. The little white eyes of the blossoms are very telling (see
Fig. 4). The flowers are held well out from the large leaves of the main stem by smaller ones
(from 1in. to 8in. long), at the ends of which the buds and flowers are clustered, backed by
a pair of small leaflets, like wings. Just before the buds open they are of a bright rose colour,
and when the flowers fade the leafy calyx completely hides the withered parts, and other blooms
take their places between the wing-like pair of leaflets; so the succession of bloom is kept
up through the whole summer. The leaves of the root are very large when fully grown during
summer--over a foot long--those of the stems are much less; all are lance-shaped and pointed,
plain at the edges, very hairy, and of a dark green colour. The stems are numerous, upright,
and, as before hinted, branched; also, like the leaves, they are covered with stiff hairs,
a characteristic common to the order. Well-established plants will grow to the height of 3ft.
to 5ft.

Flowering period, May to September.

Anchusa Sempervirens.

Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

This is a British species, and, as its name denotes, is evergreen; not, let me add, as a tall
plant, for the stems wither or at least become very sere, only the large leaves of the root
remaining fresh; and though it has many points of difference from A. Italica, such as shorter
growth, darker flowers and foliage, and more oval leaves--these form the distinctions most
observable. By its evergreen quality it is easily identified in winter. There is also an important
difference from the axillary character of the flower stems. With these exceptions the description
of A. Italica will fairly hold good for this native species.

This Alkanet has various other names, as Borago sempervirens, Buglossum s., and with old writers
it, together with allied species, was much esteemed, not only for the flowers, but for its
reputed medicinal properties. To those who care to grow these good old plants I would say,
well enrich the soil; when so treated, the results are very different from those where the
plants have been put in hungry and otherwise neglected situations; this favourable condition
may be easily afforded, and will be more than repaid. Strong roots may be transplanted at any
time, and propagation is more quickly carried out by division of the woody roots, which should
be cut or split so that each piece has a share of bark and a crown. Just before new growth
has begun, as in January, is the best time for this operation, so that there is no chance of
rot from dormancy.

Flowering period, May to September.

Andromeda Tetragona.

Syn. CASSIOPE TETRAGONA; Nat. Ord. ERICACEÆ.

A dwarf hardy evergreen shrub, which comes to us from Lapland and North America; though a very
beautiful subject for either rockwork or border, it is rarely seen. It is not one of the easiest
plants to grow, which may, to some extent, account for its rarity. Still, when it can have
its requirements, it not only thrives well, but its handsome form and flowers repay any extra
trouble it may have given. In the culture of this, as of most plants of the order Ericaceæ,
there is decidedly a right way and a wrong one, and if the species now under consideration
has one or two special requirements it deserves them.

With me it never exceeds a height of 6in. or 7in., is much branched, and of a fine apple green
colour; the flowers are small but very beautiful, bell-shaped, pendent, and springing from
the leafy stems of the previous year's growth. The leaves are small as well as curious, both
in form and arrangement, completely hiding their stems; their roundish grain-shaped forms are
evenly arranged in four rows extending throughout the whole length of the branches (whence
the name tetragona), giving them a square appearance resembling an ear of wheat, but much less
stout (see Fig. 5); the little leaves, too, are frosted somewhat in the way of many of the
saxifrages. It is next to impossible to describe this pretty shrub; fortunately, the cut will
convey a proper idea at a glance. All who possess more select collections of hardy plants and
shrubs should not fail to include this; it is fit for any collection of fifty choice species.

I struggled long before finding out the right treatment, as presumably I now have, yet it is
very simple, in fact, only such as many other plants should have; but, unlike them, A. tetragona
will take no alternative; it must have partial shade, sandy peat or leaf soil, and be planted
in a moist or semi-bog situation. On the raised parts of rockwork it became burnt up; planted
in loam, though light, it was dormant as a stone; in pots, it withered at the tips; but, with
the above treatment, I have flowers and numerous branchlets. Many little schemes may be improvised
for the accommodation of this and similar subjects. Something of the bog character would appear
to be the difficulty here; a miniature one may be made in less than half an hour. Next the
walk dig a hole 18in. all ways, fill in with sandy peat, make it firm; so form the surface
of the walk that the water from it will eddy or turn in. In a week it will have settled; do
not fill it up, but leave it dished and put in the plant. Gentians, pyrolas, calthas, and even
the bog pimpernel I have long grown so.

A. tetragona can be propagated by division of the roots, but such division should not be attempted
with other than a perfectly healthy plant. It should be done in spring, just as it begins to
push, which may be readily seen by the bright green tips of the branchlets; and it is desirable,
when replanting, to put the parts a little deeper, so as to cover the dead but persistent leaves
about the bottoms of the stems which occur on the parts four or more years old. After a year,
when so planted, I have found good roots emitted from these parts, and, doubtless, such deeper
planting will, in some way, meet its requirements, as in this respect they are provided for
in its habitats by the annual and heavy fall of leaves from other trees which shade it.

Flowering period, April and May.

Anemone Alpina.

ALPINE WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

From Austria, the foliage closely resembling that of A. sulphurea, but the flowers are larger
and of various colours. It is said to be the parent of A. sulphurea.

It flowers in June. See A. sulphurea.

Anemone Apennina.

MOUNTAIN WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is one of the "old-fashioned" flowers of our gardens--in fact, a native species, having
a black tuberous root, which forms a distinct, though invisible characteristic of the species.
As the old names are somewhat descriptive, I give them--viz., Geranium-leaved Anemone, and
Stork's-bill Windflower.

The appearance of a bold piece of this plant when in flower is exceedingly cheerful; the soft-looking
feathery foliage forms a rich groundwork for the lavish number of flowers, which vary much
in colour, from sky-blue to nearly white, according to the number of days they may have been
in blow, blue being the opening colour. The flowers are produced singly on stems, 6in. high,
and ornamented with a whorl of finely-cut leaflets, stalked, lobed, and toothed; above this
whorl the ruddy flower stem is much more slender. During sunshine the flowers are 1½in. across
the tips of sepals, becoming reflexed. The foliage, as before hinted, is in the form of a whorl,
there being no root leaf, and the soft appearance of the whole plant is due to its downiness,
which extends to and includes the calyx. The lobes of the leaves are cupped, but the leaves
themselves reflex until their tips touch the ground, whence their distinct and pleasing form.

This plant is most at home in the half shade of trees, where its flowers retain their blue
colour longer. It should be grown in bold patches, and in free or sandy soil. The tubers may
be transplanted soon after the tops have died off in late summer.

Flowering period, April and May.

Anemone Blanda.

FAIR WINDFLOWER, or BLUE GRECIAN ANEMONE; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is a lovely winter flower, of great value in our gardens, from its showiness. It is a
recent introduction from the warmer climes of the South of Europe and Asia Minor; and though
it is not so vigorous under cultivation in our climate as most Windflowers, it proves perfectly
hardy. A little extra care should be taken in planting it as regards soil and position, in
order to grow it well. It belongs to that section of its numerous genus having an involucrum
of stalked leaflets.

The flowers are produced on stalks, 4in. to 6in. high; they are nearly 2in. across, of a fine
deep blue colour; the sepals are numerous and narrow, in the way of A. stellata, or star anemone.
The leaves are triternate, divisions deeply cut and acute; the leaves of the involucrum are
stalked, trifid, and deeply cut. The whole plant much resembles A. Apennina. Where it can be
established, it must prove one of the most useful flowers, and to possess such charming winter
blossom is worth much effort in affording it suitable conditions. The soil should be rich,
light, and well drained, as sandy loam, and if mixed with plenty of leaf soil all the better.
The position should be sheltered, otherwise this native of warm countries will have its early
leaves and flowers damaged by the wintry blast, and the evil does not stop there, for the check
at such a period interferes with the root development, and repetitions of such damage drive
the plants into a state of "dwindling," and I may add, this is the condition in which this
plant may frequently be seen. Many of the Anemones may be planted without much care, other
than that of giving them a little shade from sunshine. The present subject, however, being
so early, is not likely to obtain too much bright weather, but rather the reverse. If, then,
it is planted in warm quarters, it may be expected to yield its desirable flowers in average
quantity compared with other Windflowers, and in such proportion will its roots increase. The
latter may be divided (providing they are of good size and healthy) when the leaves have died off.

Flowering period, February and March.

Anemone Coronaria.

POPPY-LIKE WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

Hardy and tuberous. The illustration (Fig. 6) is of the double form, in which it may frequently
be seen; also in many colours, as blue, purple, white, scarlet, and striped; the same colours
may be found in the single and semi-double forms. There are many shades or half colours, which
are anything but pleasing, and where such have established themselves, either as seedlings
or otherwise, they should be weeded out, as there are numerous distinct hues, which may just
as easily be cultivated. The great variety in colour and form of this Anemone is perhaps its
most peculiar characteristic; for nearly 300 years it has had a place in English gardens, and
came originally from the Levant. Its habit is neat; seldom does it reach a foot in height,
the flowers being produced terminally; they are poppy-like, and 2in. to 3in. across, having
six sepals. The leaves are ternate, segments numerous; each leaf springs from the tuber, with
the exception of those of the involucre.

In planting this species, it should be kept in mind that it neither likes too much sunshine
nor a light soil; under such conditions it may exist, but it will not thrive and scarcely ever
flower. When the tuberous roots have become devoid of foliage they may be lifted, and if they
have grown to a size exceeding 3in. long and 1in. in diameter, they may be broken in halves
with advantage; the sooner they are put back into the ground the better; slight shade from
the mid-day sun and good loam will be found to suit them best. When the various colours are
kept separate, bold clumps of a score or so of each are very effective; mixed beds are gay,
almost gaudy; but the grouping plan is so much better, that, during the blooming period, it
is worth the trouble to mark the different colours, with a view to sorting them at the proper time.

The nutty roots are often eaten by earth vermin, especially wireworm. Whenever there is occasion
to lift the roots it is a good plan to dress them, by repeated dips in a mixture of clay and
soot, until they are well coated; they should be allowed to dry for a short time between each
dip; this will not only be found useful in keeping off wireworm and similar pests, but will
otherwise benefit the plants as a manure.

Flowering period, May and June.

Anemone Decapetala.

Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

New, from North America; has a deteriorated resemblance to A. alpina and A. sulphurea (which
see). The foliage is much less; the flower stems are numerous, close together, stout, and 9in.
to 12in. high; they are also branched, but not spreading. The flowers have seven to ten sepals,
are an inch across, and of a creamy white colour. The heads of seed are more interesting than
their flowers; they form cotton-like globes, 1½in. diameter, and endure in that state for a
fortnight. I was inclined to discard this species when I first saw its dumpy and badly-coloured
flowers, but the specimen was left in the ground, and time, which has allowed the plant to
become more naturally established, has also caused it to produce finer bloom, and it is now
a pleasing and distinct species of an interesting character.

The same treatment will answer for this species as for A. sulphurea. All the Anemones may be
propagated by seeds or division of the roots. The latter method should only be adopted in the
case of strong roots, and their division will be more safely effected in early spring, when
they can start into growth at once.

Flowering period, May to June.

Anemone Fulgens.

SHINING WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is a variety of A. hortensis or A. pavonina, all of which much resemble each other. This
very showy flower is much and deservedly admired. In sheltered quarters or during mild seasons
it will flower at Christmas and continue to bloom for several months. It will be seen by the
illustration (Fig. 7) to be a plant of neat habit, and for effect and usefulness it is one
of the very best flowers that can be introduced into the garden, especially the spring garden,
as there is scarcely another of its colour, and certainly not one so floriferous and durable.
Though it has been in English gardens over fifty years, it seems as if only recently its real
worth has been discovered. It is now fast becoming a universal favourite. The flowers are 2in.
across, and of a most brilliant scarlet colour, produced singly on tall naked stems, nearly
a foot high. They vary in number of sepals, some being semi-double. The foliage is bright and
compact, more freely produced than that of most Windflowers; it is also richly cut.

It may be grown in pots for conservatory or indoor decoration. It needs no forcing for such
purposes; a cold frame will prove sufficient to bring out the flowers in winter. Borders or
the moist parts of rockwork are suitable for it; but perhaps it is seen to greatest advantage
in irregular masses in the half shade of trees in front of a shrubbery, and, after all, it
is impossible to plant this flower wrong, as regards effect. To grow it well, however, it must
have a moist situation, and good loam to grow in. It is easily propagated by division of strong
healthy roots in autumn.

Flowering period, January to June, according to position and time of planting.

Anemone Japonica.

JAPAN WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This and its varieties are hardy perennials of the most reliable kinds; the typical form has
flowers of a clear rose colour. A. j. vitifolia has larger flowers of a fine bluish tint, and
seems to be the hybrid between the type and the most popular variety, viz., A. j. alba--Honorine
Jobert--(see Fig. 8). So much has this grown in favour that it has nearly monopolised the name
of the species, of which it is but a variety; hence the necessity of pointing out the distinctions.
Frequently the beautiful white kind is sought for by the typical name only, so that if a plant
were supplied accordingly there would be disappointment at seeing a somewhat coarse specimen,
with small rosy flowers, instead of a bold and beautiful plant with a base of large vine-shaped
foliage and strong stems, numerously furnished with large white flowers, quite 2in. across,
and centered by a dense arrangement of lemon-coloured stamens, somewhat like a large single
white rose. This more desirable white variety sometimes grows 3ft. high, and is eminently a
plant for the border in front of shrubs, though it is very effective in any position. I grow
it in the border, on rockwork, and in a half shady place, and it seems at home in all. It will
continue in bloom until stopped by frosts. The flowers are among the most useful in a cut state,
especially when mingled with the now fashionable and handsome leaves of heucheras and tiarellas;
they form a chaste embellishment for the table or fruit dishes.

The plant is sometimes much eaten by caterpillars; for this the remedy is soapy water syringed
on the under side of the leaves. Earwigs also attack the flowers; they should be trapped by
a similar plan to that usually adopted for dahlias.

To those wishing to grow this choice Anemone, let me say, begin with the young underground
runners; plant them in the autumn anywhere you like, but see that the soil is deep, and if
it is not rich, make it so with well-decayed leaves or manure, and you will have your reward.

Flowering period, August to November.

Anemone Nemorosa Flore-pleno.

DOUBLE WOOD ANEMONE, or WINDFLOWER; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is the double form of the common British species; in every part but the flower it resembles
the type. The flower, from being double, and perhaps from being grown in more exposed situations
than the common form in the shaded woods, is much more durable; an established clump has kept
in good form for three weeks.

