No doubt as in the case of men, so in the case of women, we must make allowance for race and
climate. A full and rotund development of physique is far rarer in northern than in southern
Europe. The English race is taller, less solidly built, slighter than the ancient Greek. Among
us hard tendons usually take the place of solid muscles. And the practise of athletic games
by women undoubtedly tends to make them in some respects conform more to the male type. In
moderation physical exercises may improve health and strength without tending to deprive the
vital organs of nourishment. But the overtrained woman is farther from the healthy life of
nature than the overtrained man. And whether the overexertion be of the body or of the intelligence,
it tends to destroy true womanliness.

It is a pity that some sculptor does not do for the ideal of womanhood what Dr. Tait McKenzie
has done for the ideal of athletic manhood. Of course the process would not be the same. No
one wants an ideal type of the female athlete, unless we wish to restore the race of Amazons,
but we do sorely need to have before our eyes types which embody the physical ideal of efficient
womanhood. At present while nude womanhood in art conforms in a great measure to the Greek
tradition, clothed womanhood follows the types of the street, modified by the baseless caprices
of fashion. The two stand in unreconciled contrast. The Greeks when painting women on a vase
often drew their figures in outline before they added clothes. But any one who tries to draw
the outline of the female figure beneath the clothes on a fashion-plate will stand aghast at
what he has produced.

Cicero repeats an instructive story in regard to the painter Zeuxis, who lived about 400 B.
C. He was commissioned to make for the people of Croton a painting of Helen of Troy. He first
inquired, what seems to have been a matter of common knowledge, who were the most beautifully
made young men in that city, which was noted for its athletes. He next asked that he should
be allowed to study the forms of the sisters of these men, judging that the sisters must partake
of the beauty of the brothers. Out of these he selected five girls for more continued study,
and by such aid produced his picture. We cannot suppose that he would be so clumsy as to select
at random beautiful details from each of the five; in that way he would produce only an eclectic
monstrosity. But, working in the presence of beautiful examples, his sense of beauty would
rise in tone to the highest of which he was capable.

In this story several points are noteworthy. It shows that the type of beauty in men was more
advanced and more generally recognized than the type of beauty in women. And it shows the Greek
artistic mind ever on the watch to catch some new note of beauty to add to the traditional
stock. Professor Brücke, in his excellent work on the beauties of the human form, observes
that in the ideal statues of Greece many features may be discovered which in the actual world
of men and women are very rare, but the charm of which can scarcely be disputed. There went
on from school to school, and from period to period, a sort of accumulation of beauty which
was ever increasing. Every beautiful model which was studied added something to what Brücke
calls the stock of beauty at the disposal of artists.

VI

The sixth lamp of Greek art is Patience in striving after perfection. In the finer work of
Greek sculptors one finds an utterly ungrudging expenditure of time and care which reminds
one of the working of Nature herself, Nature who is never in a hurry, who is never contented
with a hasty sketch, but works regardless of time. We are told of Protogenes that he spent
seven years on a single figure, and I think he would have spent seven more if he had thought
that he could thereby have improved his painting. Nothing strikes one more strongly in such
works as the charioteer of Delphi and the Hermes of Praxiteles than the pains taken with every
detail. It is by careful work, continued through successive generations, that sculpture attained
such mastery in the representation of the muscles of the body as we find in the Borghese fighting
figure of the Louvre, and such delicacy in the rendering of drapery as we find in the Victories
of the Balustrade at Athens, or the Victory of Samothrace.

But the delicacy and minuteness of Greek work is of course most obvious in the reliefs of coins
and in gems. The coins were not primarily meant to please the eye, but to circulate in the
fish-market; yet a multitude of the dies are so exquisitely finished that they lose little
when magnified to many diameters, and will bear the most critical examination. The intaglio
gems were meant for the sealing of documents, the seal taking the place of the modern signature;
but the figures upon seals are in their way as finished as great works of sculpture. Seals
even more usually than coins gain rather than lose if they are enlarged. Yet they were executed
without the help of magnifying glasses. Their subjects are taken from the widest field, the
figures of deities, tales from mythology, portraits, animal forms; like the coins they introduced
as an undercurrent to the prosaic life of every day an element of poetry and imagination.

VII

The seventh lamp, which goes as naturally with idealism as care and patience go with naturalism,
is joy, joie de vivre. Keats has expressed the Greek sense of art in an immortal line, 'A thing
of beauty is a joy for ever'. It was the overflowing gladness which lies at the root of creation
and evolution which took eternal form in the painting and sculpture of the Greeks and inspired
all their works. The same irrepressible joy which gives colour to the flowers, sweetness to
the fruit, song to the birds, and sexual desire to mankind reached here one of its most perfect
manifestations. The life of the Greeks was by no means one of unmixed happiness. Each city
was not unfrequently at war with its neighbours; and the penalty of complete defeat was sometimes
the razing of its walls, the slaughter of its men, and the enslavement of its women. Disease,
even plague, constantly ravaged the land; and the resources of modern surgery and modern anaesthetics
were not present to curb their ravages. The life of the majority in country huts, and still
more in the slums of the cities, most of all in the mines, was rougher and more sordid than
is the case in the modern world, in countries in their normal state. And the people had not
even that hope of a blessed hereafter which sustained the people of the Middle Ages. Yet under
all these clouds, their spirit was hopeful and aspiring. And their art reflects ever the brighter
side of things. Surely they were wise and right. We seek out works of art not to foster pessimism
but to inspire optimism, not to show us the world of nature on its repulsive side, but to reveal
to us how much underlying beauty is to be found in it. ''Tis life not death for which we pant,
More life and fuller that we want.'

At the same time, Greek art in some forms was extremely serious and keenly alive to the darker
side of existence. The Greeks invented tragedy, the poetical reflection of the severity of
fate. Would any modern audience be found, which would be prepared to sit for a whole summer
day listening eagerly to the grand expression by such poets as Aeschylus and Sophocles of the
power of Nemesis, the instability of all prosperity, the misfortunes which hunt those who have
the ill luck to displease the gods? Surely not. And not in Greek tragedy only, but in elegiac
poetry and in epigram, we find perfect reflections of our most gloomy moods. But for such expressions
of sorrow and despair the Greeks felt that sculpture, and even painting, were not suitable
vehicles. They belong to moods, and are not suitable for illustration in the market place and
the temple. The roads which led to Greek cities were frequently bordered with monumental tombs.
If in the reliefs and inscriptions of these tombs there had been any telling echo of the sorrow
and regret of bereaved survivors, every one would have entered the cities in a black mood.
As it is, as every one who has been in the museums of Athens knows, the sepulchral artists
carefully avoided anything which might harrow the feelings. They represented the dead at their
best, engaged in victorious warfare, or in athletic sports or in the happy family circle. A
gentle air of melancholy could not be avoided; but there was nothing to shock, nothing to oppress
the spirits. The deceased represented seemed still to share the occupations and pleasures of
the living, not to be shut off from the world of happiness.

Milton has expressed, in his magnificent prose, the profound joy of the world of the Renaissance
at the recovery of the Bible, and free liberty of reading it, after it had been shut away from
the laity by the organized Church. Equally intense, and more exuberant, was the delight of
scholars and artists, when the asceticism and pessimism of the Middle Ages, which had given
birth to such bodies as the Carmelite monks and the mendicant friars, gave way before the revival
of Greek literature and art. The world seemed suddenly to have renewed its youth. No doubt
the sudden expansion led to foul excesses; but it was yet a great landmark in human progress.

VIII

The eighth light of Greek art is Fellowship. Perhaps there is no quality in it which is more
instructive for our days than this. The extreme individualism which is the most remarkable
characteristic of modern times lays the utmost stress on the right or the duty of an artist
to express himself in his work, to work out his own vein of originality, to give to the world
a rendering of his own qualities and individuality. And no doubt no great artist can help doing
this in a measure. When he works he must be himself; he can only see the world through the
medium of his character and talents. And as every man is a microcosm, a reflection in miniature
of the great world of human beings, what is really good and original in an artist must appeal
to something in the human world; must have a meaning for people of a certain class or a certain
training, or a certain country. But whether an artist is the better for a conscious attempt
thus to externalize his personality; whether he is improved by being self-conscious and reflective
in his art is a different question.

Scarcely any feature of Greek art is more impressive to a student than its continuous and uninterrupted
course. When once it has started it does not turn back, but goes forward steadily, for a time
rising superior to difficulty after difficulty, attaining a higher and higher level, then in
the fifth century branching out in various directions into styles and groups, then going on
with great technical skill, but with a loss of inspiration. It is a course of evolution as
steady as that of any kind of plant or animal. This shows that it did not depend upon the rise
of successive men of talent or genius, each of whom was intent on expressing himself; but upon
the rise and influence of successive artistic schools, each of which did not merely follow
the personality of a founder or teacher, but stood for a phase in the development of the common
life of the Greek people. The schools were Ionian or Dorian, Attic or Argive, and harmonized
with the whole civilization of such fractions of the race. Ionian art went with the gay and
pleasure-loving ways of the Asiatic coast. Dorian art reflected the restraint, the balance,
the self-control of the people of Peloponnesus. Attic art not only conformed to the refined
taste of the people of Athens, but suited also the strong mental bias of the most intellectual
city which ever existed. Of course these schools did not flourish in complete isolation one
from the other; city influenced city and artist artist; but in a far less degree than would
be the case now. A school of sculpture was a species; and all the individuals of the species
were more like one another than they were like any of their contemporaries outside.

Thus when we examine any work of Greek sculpture, before the eclectic schools came into being,
we find it easy to determine its period, often within narrow limits, and we are usually able
to assign it with confidence to a particular school, imperfect as is our knowledge of the history
of Greek art. But we can scarcely ever say that it is the work of an individual artist, unless
it stands on a basis bearing the author's name, or unless ancient critics and historians have
left us detailed descriptions of a work which survives. I am speaking of Greek originals; the
copies of earlier works made by Greek artists of a late period for Roman galleries are often
so confused in style and so careless in execution that they serve only to mislead, even if
they have escaped the Italian restorer of recent date.

Great and connected series of statues and reliefs, such as constitute the sculptural adornment
of such temples as that of Zeus at Olympia or the Parthenon or the Mausoleum, are the joint
productions of a number of sculptors who worked together, no doubt under the general supervision
of some architect or chief mason, but probably under very little control. Such works combine
considerable variety in execution with a general similarity so great that a superficial observer
does not see their differences. Public opinion in London seems to hold that Pheidias made the
whole of the pediments and the frieze of the Parthenon; though in some cases contiguous figures
are so markedly various amid the general likeness as to prove separate hands. In the case of
the Erechtheum at Athens there is extant a long list of payments to a number of artists for
the several figures of the frieze. There was no general contractor, no artist who hired his
masons by the day, but every man who produced one of the figures in relief was paid for it
sixty drachmas, without regard to its difficulty or its simplicity.

It is comparatively easy to get a set of skilled stone-masons to carry out with exactness a
plan of which all the details are worked out for them, and which requires only faithful copying.
And it must have been easy for a set of Egyptian sculptors who made their figures according
to a rigid conventional pattern to produce a uniform result. But for a number of skilled workers
who were allowed great liberty in detail to produce an harmonious whole was infinitely harder.
And that the Greek masons regularly accomplished this result shows how strong upon them was
the influence of the school. Nor did they merely work from nature; but their production was
of an idealizing kind. It is clear that they must have had not merely similar tools and similar
mechanical processes, but the same purposes and ideals. They must have had what we should call
a collective personality. It is more than probable that among the workers on the Parthenon
were Alcamenes and Agoracritus, two sculptors who rose to great fame. It is certain that among
the workers on the Erechtheum was Praxias, a pupil of Calamis, and probably a relative of Praxiteles.
The distinction between artist and mason, so marked in our day, scarcely existed in Greece.
The mason who had talent became a noted sculptor; and the sculptor, instead of making a model
in wax or plaster, set to work, like Michelangelo, on the block of marble himself. Probably
sometimes, like Benvenuto Cellini, he cast his own bronze statues.

Generally in all great periods of art there is such fellowship. And in sculpture in particular
the design and the execution are so closely connected that it is an abuse to assign the two
functions to different men, and even to different classes of men. Greece was pre-eminently
the land of productive guilds, of families of artists, of groups of workers who were of one
heart and one spirit, and who therefore worked in one style. One of the closest parallels to
a Greek school of sculpture is to be found in the group of Pre-Raphaelite artists of the middle
of the last century, Morris, Burne-Jones, Rossetti, Millais, Collins, and their companions.
This group had a religious or ideal starting-point in the revived Anglo-Catholicism which arose
in Oxford at the time, and they had principles of art in common which they embodied in their
work. Their paintings, before they diverged one from another, form a distinct species, and
have an interest for the historian of civilization greater than that of any other English school.

IX

In order that we may estimate the influence of Greek art on the civilization of Europe, it
is necessary briefly to trace its reappearances through the ages. Its first conquest was Rome.
The victorious Roman Generals, Marcellus, Scipio, Flamininus, Mummius, and others, brought
to the imperial city, to adorn their triumphs, an immense quantity of Greek sculpture and paintings,
of which they robbed the great storehouses of works of art in the temples and stoae of Hellas,
Sicily, and Asia Minor. The earlier Emperors, especially Nero, followed their example, so that
in the time of Pliny the naturalist all the public places of Rome were crowded with sculptures
of bronze and marble and with the painted masterpieces of great artists. It became fashionable
for wealthy Romans, such as Hortensius and Cicero, to stock their country-houses with such
works. Even so, the demand was not satisfied; and Greek artists were imported into Rome, where
they set up great workshops, and poured out an incessant stream of fresh works of art. Of such
our modern museums are full. Generally speaking they are of little artistic merit, copies of
various degrees of excellence of the great works of earlier generations. For the Roman plutocrats
had little taste. Because certain figures or groups had a great reputation, and especially
because they had been purchased at a high price by Greek cities and kings, the Roman collector
liked to have copies of them in his villa; and the artists who produced these copies were mere
workers for hire, without originality and without aspirations. Sometimes when employed on such
works as the Arch of Titus, or the Column of Trajan, the novelty of the theme stimulated the
artist to attempt something of a more original kind. And occasionally the fire within took
course and produced a finer work than ordinary. Under the art-loving Emperor Hadrian there
was a sort of St. Martin's summer of sculpture; but its productions were smooth, elegant and
refined rather than original or interesting. The charm of art was not appreciated by the Roman
people; only the few who professed cultivation really cared whether a figure was good or bad,
and even the few were a little ashamed of their preferences.

