I would not give up, though I could scarcely see him for the blood that was running over my
eyes. Old Jim got so angry whenever Jenkins touched me, that he ran up behind and nipped his
calves, to make him turn on him.

Soon Jenkins came to a high wall, where he stopped, and with a hurried look behind, began to
climb over it. The wall was too high for me to jump. He was going to escape. What shall I do?
I barked as loudly as I could for some one to come, and then sprang up and held him by the
leg as he was getting over.

I had such a grip, that I went over the wall with him, and left Jim on the other side. Jenkins
fell on his face in the earth. Then he got up, and with a look of deadly hatred on his face,
pounced upon me. If help had not come, I think he would have dashed out my brains against the
wall, as he dashed out my poor little brothers' against the horse's stall. But just then there
was a running sound. Two men came down the street and sprang upon the wall, just where Jim
was leaping up and down and barking in distress.

I saw at once by their uniform and the clubs in their hands, that they were policemen. In one
short instant they had hold of Jenkins. He gave up then, but he stood snarling at me like an
ugly dog. "If it hadn't been for that cur, I'd never a been caught. Why," and he staggered
back and uttered a bad word, "it's me own dog."

"More shame to you," said one of the policemen, sternly; "what have you been up to at this
time of night, to have your own dog and a quiet minister's spaniel dog a chasing you through
the street?"

Jenkins began to swear and would not tell them anything. There was a house in the garden, and
just at this minute some one opened a window and called out: "Hallo, there, what are you doing?"

"We're catching a thief, sir," said one of the policemen, "leastwise I think that's what he's
been up to. Could you throw us down a bit of rope? We've no handcuffs here, and one of us has
to go to the lock-up and the other to Washington street, where there's a woman yelling blue
murder; and hurry up, please, sir."

The gentleman threw down a rope, and in two minutes Jenkins' wrists were tied together, and
he was walked through the gate, saying bad words as fast as he could to the policeman who was
leading him. "Good dogs," said the other policeman to Jim and me. Then he ran up the street
and we followed him.

As we hurried along Washington street, and came near our house, we saw lights gleaming through
the darkness, and heard people running to and fro. The nurse's shrieking had alarmed the neighborhood.
The Morris boys were all out in the street only half clad and shivering with cold, and the
Drurys' coachman, with no hat on, and his hair sticking up all over his head, was running about
with a lantern.

The neighbors' houses were all lighted up, and a good many people were hanging out of their
windows and opening their doors, and calling to each other to know what all this noise meant.

When the policeman appeared with Jim and me at his heels, quite a crowd gathered around him
to hear his part of the story. Jim and I dropped on the ground panting as hard as we could,
and with little streams of water running from our tongues. We were both pretty well used up.
Jim's back was bleeding in several places from the stones that Jenkins had thrown at him.,
and I was a mass of bruises.

Presently we were discovered, and then what a fuss was made over us. "Brave dogs! noble dogs!"
everybody said, and patted and praised us. We were very proud and happy, and stood up and wagged
our tails, at least Jim did, and I wagged what I could. Then they found what a state we were
in. Mrs. Morris cried, and catching me up in her arms, ran in the house with me, and Jack followed
with old Jim.

We all went into the parlor. There was a good fire there, and Miss Laura and Miss Bessie were
sitting over it. They sprang up when they saw us, and right there in the parlor washed our
wounds, and made us lie down by the fire.

"You saved our silver, brave Joe," said Miss Bessie; "just wait till my papa and mamma come
home, and see what they will say. Well, Jack, what is the latest?" as the Morris boys came
trooping into the room.

"The policeman has been questioning your nurse, and examining the dining-room, and has gone
down to the station to make his report, and do you know what he has found out?" said Jack,
excitedly.

"No what?" asked Miss Bessie.

"Why that villain was going to burn your house."

Miss Bessie gave a little shriek. "Why, what do you mean?"

"Well," said Jack, "they think by what they discovered, that he planned to pack his bag with
silver, and carry it off; but just before he did so he would pour oil around the room, and
set fire to it, so people would not find out that he had been robbing you."

"Why we might have all been burned to death," said Miss Bessie. "He couldn't burn the dining-room
without setting fire to the rest of the house.

"Certainly not," said Jack, "that shows what a villain he is."

"Do they know this for certain, Jack?" asked Miss Laura.

"Well, they suppose so; they found some bottles of oil along with the bag he had for the silver."

"How horrible! You darling old Joe, perhaps you saved our lives," and pretty Miss Bessie kissed
my ugly, swollen head. I could do nothing but lick her little hand, but always after that I
thought a great deal of her.

It is now some years since all this happened, and I might as well tell the end of it. The next
day the Drurys came home, and everything was found out about Jenkins. The night they left Fairport
he had been hanging about the station. He knew just who were left in the house, for he had
once supplied them with milk, and knew all about their family. He had no customers at this
time, for after Mr. Harry rescued me, and that piece came out in the paper about him, he found
that no one would take milk from him. His wife died, and some kind people put his children
in an asylum, and he was obliged to sell Toby and the cows. Instead of learning a lesson from
all this, and leading a better life, he kept sinking lower.

He was, therefore, ready for any kind of mischief that turned up, and when he saw the Drurys
going away in the train, he thought he would steal a bag of silver from their sideboard, then
set fire to the house, and run away and hide the silver. After a time he would take it to some
city and sell it.

He was made to confess all this. Then for his wickedness he was sent to prison for ten years,
and I hope he will get to be a better man there, and be one after he comes out.

I was sore and stiff for a long time, and one day Mrs. Drury came over to see me. She did not
love dogs as the Morrises did. She tried to, but she could not.

Dogs can see fun in things as well as people can, and I buried my muzzle in the hearth-rug,
so that she would not see how I was curling up my lip and smiling at her.

"You are a good dog," she said, slowly. "You are" then she stopped, and could not think of
anything else to say to me. I got up and stood in front of her, for a well-bred dog should
not lie down when a lady speaks to him. I wagged my body a little, and I would gladly have
said something to help her out of her difficulty, but I couldn't. If she had stroked me it
might have helped her; but she didn't want to touch me, and I knew she didn't want me to touch
her, so I just stood looking at her.

"Mrs. Morris," she said, turning from me with a puzzled face, "I don't like animals, and I
can't pretend to, for they always find me out; but can't you let that dog know that I shall
feel eternally grateful to him for saving not only our property for that is a trifle but my
darling daughter from fright and annoyance, and a possible injury or loss of life?"

"I think he understands," said Mrs. Morris. "He is a very wise dog." And smiling in great amusement,
she called me to her and put my paws on her lap. "Look at that lady, Joe. She is pleased with
you for driving Jenkins away from her house. You remember Jenkins?"

I barked angrily and limped to the window.

"How intelligent he is," said Mrs. Drury. "My husband has sent to New York for a watchdog,
and he says that from this on our house shall never be without one. Now I must go. Your dog
is happy, Mrs. Morris, and I can do nothing for him, except to say that I shall never forget
him, and I wish he would come over occasionally to see us. Perhaps when we get our dog he will.
I shall tell my cook whenever she sees him to give him something to eat. This is a souvenir
for Laura of that dreadful night. I feel under a deep obligation to you, so I am sure you will
allow her to accept it." Then she gave Mrs. Morris a little box and went away.

When Miss Laura came in, she opened the box, and found in it a handsome diamond ring. On the
inside of it was engraved: "Laura, in memory of December 20th, 18. From her grateful friend,
Bessie."

The diamond was worth hundreds of dollars, and Mrs. Morris told Miss Laura that she had rather
she would not wear it then, while she was a young girl. It was not suitable for her, and she
knew Mrs. Drury did not expect her to do so. She wished to give her a valuable present, and
this would always be worth a great deal of money.

CHAPTER XV OUR JOURNEY TO RIVERDALE

EVERY other summer, the Morris children were sent to some place in the country, so that they
could have a change of air, and see what country life was like. As there were so many of them
they usually went different ways.

The summer after I came to them, Jack and Carl went to an uncle in Vermont, Miss Laura went
to another in New Hampshire, and Ned and Willie went to visit a maiden aunt who lived in the
White Mountains.

Mr. and Mrs. Morris stayed at home. Fairport was a lovely place in summer, and many people
came there to visit.

The children took some of their pets with them, and the others they left at home for their
mother to take care of. She never allowed them to take a pet animal anywhere, unless she knew
it would be perfectly welcome. "Don't let your pets be a worry to other people," she often
said to them, "or they will dislike them and you too."

Miss Laura went away earlier than the others, for she had run down through the spring, and
was pale and thin. One day, early in June, we set out. I say "we," for after my adventure with
Jenkins, Miss Laura said that I should never be parted from her. If any one invited her to
come and see them and didn't want me, she would stay at home.

The whole family went to the station to see us off. They put a chain on my collar and took
me to the baggage office and got two tickets for me. One was tied to my collar and the other
Miss Laura put in her purse. Then I was put in a baggage car and chained in a corner. I heard
Mr. Morris say that as we were only going a short distance, it was not worth while to get an
express ticket for me.

There was a dreadful noise and bustle at the station. Whistles were blowing and people were
rushing up and down the platform. Some men were tumbling baggage so fast into the car where
I was, that I was afraid some of it would fall on me.

For a few minutes Miss Laura stood by the door and looked in, but soon the men had piled up
so many boxes and trunks that she could not see me. Then she went away. Mr. Morris asked one
of the men to see that I did not get hurt, and I heard some money rattle. Then he went away too.

It was the beginning of June and the weather had suddenly become very hot. We had a long, cold
spring, and not being used to the heat, it seemed very hard to bear.

Before the train started, the doors of the baggage car were closed, and it became quite dark
inside. The darkness, and the heat, and the close smell, and the noise, as we went rushing
along, made me feel sick and frightened.

I did not dare to lie down, but sat up trembling and wishing that we might soon come to Riverdale
Station. But we did not get there for some time, and I was to have a great fright.

I was thinking of all the stories that I knew of animals traveling. In February, the Drurys'
Newfoundland watch-dog, Pluto, had arrived from New York, and he told Jim and me that he had
a miserable journey.

A gentleman friend of Mr. Drury's had brought him from New York. He saw him chained up in his
car, and he went into his Pullman, first tipping the baggage-master handsomely to look after
him. Pluto said that the baggage-master had a very red nose, and he was always getting drinks
for himself when they stopped at a station, but he never once gave him a drink or anything
to eat, from the time they left New York till they got to Fairport. When the train stopped
there, and Pluto's chain was unfastened, he sprang out on the platform and nearly knocked Mr.
Drury down. He saw some snow that had sifted through the station roof and he was so thirsty
that he began to lick it up. When the snow was all gone, he jumped up and licked the frost
on the windows.

Mr. Drury's friend was so angry. He found the baggage-master, and said to him: "What did you
mean, by coming into my car every few hours, to tell me that the dog was fed, and watered,
and comfortable? I shall report you."

He went into the office at the station, and complained of the man, and was told that he was
a drinking man, and was going to be dismissed.

I was not afraid of suffering like Pluto, because it was only going to take us a few hours
to get to Riverdale. I found that we always went slowly before we came in to a station, and
one time when we began to slacken speed I thought that surely we must be at our journey's end.
However, it was not Riverdale. The car gave a kind of jump, then there was a crashing sound
ahead, and we stopped.

I heard men shouting and running up and down, and I wondered what had happened. It was all
dark and still in the car, and nobody came in, but the noise kept up outside, and I knew something
had gone wrong with the train. Perhaps Miss Laura had got hurt. Something must have happened
to her or she would come to me.

I barked and pulled at my chain till my neck was sore, but for a long, long time I was there
alone. The men running about outside must have heard me. If ever I hear a man in trouble and
crying for help I go to him and see what he wants.

After such a long time that it seemed to me it must be the middle of the night, the door at
the end of the car opened, and a man looked in "This is all through baggage for New York, miss,"
I heard him say; "they wouldn't put your dog in here."

"Yes, they did I am sure this is the car," I heard in the voice I knew so well, "and won't
you get him out, please? He must be terribly frightened."

The man stooped down and unfastened my chain, grumbling to himself because I had not been put
in another car. "Some folks tumble a dog round as if he was a chunk of coal," he said, patting
me kindly.

I was nearly wild with delight to get with Miss Laura again, but I had barked so much, and
pressed my neck so hard with my collar that my voice was all gone. I fawned on her, and wagged
myself about, and opened and shut my mouth, but no sound came out of it.

It made Miss Laura nervous. She tried to laugh and cry at the same time, and then bit her lip
hard, and said: "Oh, Joe, don't."

"He's lost his bark, hasn't he?" said the man, looking at me curiously.

"It is a wicked thing to confine an animal in a dark and closed car," said Miss Laura, trying
to see her way down the steps through her tears.

The man put out his hand and helped her. "He's not suffered much, miss," he said; "don't you
distress yourself. Now if you'd been a brakeman on a Chicago train, as I was a few years ago,
and seen the animals run in for the stock yards, you might talk about cruelty. Cars that ought
to hold a certain number of pigs, or sheep, or cattle, jammed full with twice as many, and
half of 'em thrown out choked and smothered to death. I've seen a man running up and down,
raging and swearing because the railway people hadn't let him get in to tend to his pigs on
the road."

Miss Laura turned and looked at the man with a very white face. "Is it like that now?" she asked.

"No, no," he said, hastily. "It's better now. They've got new regulations about taking care
of the stock; but mind you, miss, the cruelty to animals isn't all done on the railways. There's
a great lot of dumb creatures suffering all round everywhere, and if they could speak 'twould
be a hard showing for some other people besides the railway men."

He lifted his cap and hurried down the platform, and Miss Laura, her face very much troubled,
picked her way among the bits of coal and wood scattered about the platform, and went into
the waiting room of the little station.

She took me up to the filter and let some water run in her hand, and gave it to me to lap.
Then she sat down and I leaned my head against her knees, and she stroked my throat gently.

There were some people sitting about the room, and, from their talk, I found out what had taken
place. There had been a freight train on a side track at this station, waiting for us to get
by. The switchman had carelessly left the switch open after this train went by, and when we
came along afterward, our train, instead of running in by the platform, went crashing into
the freight train. If we had been going fast, great damage might have been done. As it was,
our engine was smashed so badly that it could not take us on; the passengers were frightened;
and we were having a tedious time waiting for another engine to come and take us to Riverdale.

After the accident, the trainmen were so busy that Miss Laura could get no one to release me.

While I sat by her, I noticed an old gentleman staring at us. He was such a queer-looking old
gentleman. He looked like a poodle. He had bright brown eyes, and a pointed face, and a shock
of white hair that he shook every few minutes. He sat with his hands clasped on the top of
his cane, and he scarcely took his eyes from Miss Laura's face. Suddenly he jumped up and came
and sat down beside her.

"An ugly dog, that," he said, pointing to me.

Most young ladies would have resented this, but Miss Laura only looked amused. "He seems beautiful
to me," she said, gently.

"H'm, because he's your dog," said the old man, darting a sharp look at me. "What's the matter
with him?"

"This is his first journey by rail, and he's a little frightened."

"No wonder. The Lord only knows the suffering of animals in transportation," said the old gentleman.
"My dear young lady, if you could see what I have seen, you'd never eat another bit of meat
all the days of your life."

Miss Laura wrinkled her forehead. "I know I have heard," she faltered. "It must be terrible."

"Terrible it's awful," said the gentleman. "Think of the cattle on the western plains. Choked
with thirst in summer, and starved and frozen in winter. Dehorned and goaded on to trains and
steamers. Tossed about and wounded and suffering on voyages. Many of them dying and being thrown
into the sea. Others landed sick and frightened. Some of them slaughtered on docks and wharves
to keep them from dropping dead in their tracks. What kind of food does their flesh make? It's
rank poison. Three of my family have died of cancer. I am a vegetarian."

The strange old gentleman darted from his seat, and began to pace up and down the room. I was
very glad he had gone, for Miss Laura hated to hear of cruelty of any kind, and her tears were
dropping thick and fast on my brown coat.

The gentleman had spoken very loudly, and every one in the room had listened to what he said.
Among them, was a very young man, with a cold, handsome face. He looked as if he was annoyed
that the older man should have made Miss Laura cry.

"Don't you think, sir," he said, as the old gentleman passed near him in walking up and down
the floor, "that there is a great deal of mock sentiment about this business of taking care
of the dumb creation? They were made for us. They've got to suffer and be killed to supply
our wants. The cattle and sheep, and other animals would over-run the earth, if we didn't kill
them."

"Granted," said the old man, stopping right in front of him. "Granted, young man, if you take
out that word suffer. The Lord made the sheep, and the cattle, and the pigs. They are his creatures
just as much as we are. We can kill them, but we've no right to make them suffer."

"But we can't help it, sir."

"Yes, we can, my young man. It's a possible thing to raise healthy stock, treat it kindly,
kill it mercifully, eat it decently. When men do that I, for one, will cease to be a vegetarian.
You're only a boy. You haven't traveled as I have. I've been from one end of this country to
the other. Up north, down south, and out west, I've seen sights that made me shudder, and I
tell you the Lord will punish this great American nation if it doesn't change its treatment
of the dumb animals committed to its care."

The young man looked thoughtful, and did not reply. A very sweet-faced old lady sitting near
him answered the old gentleman. I don't think I have ever seen such a fine-looking old lady
as she was. Her hair was snowy white, and her face was deeply wrinkled, yet she was tall and
stately, and her expression was as pleasing as my dear Miss Laura's.

"I do not think we are a wicked nation," she said, softly. "We are a younger nation than many
of the nations of the earth, and I think that many of our sins arise from ignorance and thoughtlessness."

"Yes, madame, yes, madame," said the fiery old gentleman, staring hard at her. "I agree with
you there."

She smiled very pleasantly at him and went on. "I, too, have been a traveler, and I have talked
to a great many wise and good people on the subject of the cruel treatment of animals, and
I find that many of them have never thought about it. They, themselves, never knowingly ill-treat
a dumb creature, and when they are told stories of inhuman conduct, they say in surprise, 'Why,
these things surely can't exist!' You see they have never been brought in contact with them.
As soon as they learn about them, they begin to agitate and say, 'We must have this thing stopped.
Where is the remedy?'"

"And what is it, what is it, madame, in your opinion?" said the old gentleman, pawing the floor
with impatience.

"Just the remedy that I would propose for the great evil of intemperance," said the old lady,
smiling at him. "Legislation and education. Legislation for the old and hardened, and education
for the young and tender. I would tell the schoolboys and schoolgirls that alcohol will destroy
the framework of their beautiful bodies, and that cruelty to any of God's living creatures
will blight and destroy their innocent young souls."

The young man spoke again. "Don't you think," he said, "that you temperance and humane people
lay too much stress upon the education of our youth in all lofty and noble sentiments? The
human heart will always be wicked. Your Bible tells you that, doesn't it? You can't educate
all the badness out of children."

"We don't expect to do that," said the old lady, turning her pleasant face toward him; "but
even if the human heart is desperately wicked, shouldn't that make us much more eager to try
to educate, to ennoble, and restrain? However, as far as my experience goes, and I have lived
in this wicked world for seventy-five years, I find that the human heart, though wicked and
cruel, as you say, has yet some soft and tender spots, and the impressions made upon it in
youth are never, never effaced. Do you not remember better than anything else, standing at
your mother's knee the pressure of her hand, her kiss on your forehead?"

By this time our engine had arrived. A whistle was blowing, and nearly every one was rushing
from the room, the impatient old gentleman among the first. Miss Laura was hurriedly trying
to do up her shawl strap, and I was standing by, wishing that I could help her. The old lady
and the young man were the only other people in the room, and we could not help hearing what
they said.

"Yes, I do," he said in a thick voice, and his face got very red. "She is dead now I have no
mother."

"Poor boy!" and the old lady laid her hand on his shoulder. They were standing up, and she
was taller than he was. "May God bless you. I know you have a kind heart. I have four stalwart
boys, and you remind me of the youngest. If you are ever in Washington come to see me." She
gave him some name, and he lifted his hat and looked as if he was astonished to find out who
she was. Then he, too, went away, and she turned to Miss Laura. "Shall I help you, my dear?"

"If you please," said my young mistress. "I can't fasten this strap."

In a few seconds the bundle was done up, and we were joyfully hastening to the train. It was
only a few miles to Riverdale, so the conductor let me stay in the car with Miss Laura. She
spread her coat out on the seat in front of her, and I sat on it and looked out of the car
window as we sped along through a lovely country, all green and fresh in the June sunlight.
How light and pleasant this car was so different from the baggage car. What frightens an animal
most of all things, is not to see where it is going, not to know what is going to happen to
it. I think that they are very like human beings in this respect.

The lady had taken a seat beside Miss Laura, and as we went along, she too looked out of the
window and said in a low voice:

     "What is so rare as a day in June,
     Then, if ever, come perfect days."

"That is very true," said Miss Laura; "how sad that the autumn must come, and the cold winter."

"No, my dear, not sad. It is but a preparation for another summer."

"Yes, I suppose it is," said Miss Laura. Then she continued a little shyly, as her companion
leaned over to stroke my cropped ears, "You seem very fond of animals."

"I am, my dear. I have four horses, two cows, a tame squirrel, three dogs, and a cat."

"You should be a happy woman," said Miss Laura, with a smile.

"I think I am. I must not forget my horned toad, Diego, that I got in California. I keep him
in the green-house, and he is very happy catching flies and holding his horny head to be scratched
whenever any one comes near."

"I don't see how any one can be unkind to animals," said Miss Laura, thoughtfully.

"Nor I, my dear child. It has always caused me intense pain to witness the torture of dumb
animals. Nearly seventy years ago, when I was a little girl walking the streets of Boston,
I would tremble and grow faint at the cruelty of drivers to over-loaded horses. I was timid
and did not dare speak to them. Very often, I ran home and flung myself in my mother's arms
with a burst of tears, and asked her if nothing could be done to help the poor animals. With
mistaken, motherly kindness, she tried to put the subject out of my thoughts. I was carefully
guarded from seeing or hearing of any instances of cruelty. But the animals went on suffering
just the same, and when I became a woman, I saw my cowardice. I agitated the matter among my
friends, and told them that our whole dumb creation was groaning together in pain, and would
continue to groan, unless merciful human beings were willing to help them. I was able to assist
in the formation of several societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals, and they have
done good service. Good service not only to the horses and cows, but to the nobler animal,
man. I believe that in saying to a cruel man, 'You shall not overwork, torture, mutilate, nor
kill your animal, or neglect to provide it with proper food and shelter,' we are making him
a little nearer the kingdom of heaven than he was before. For 'Whatsoever a man soweth, that
shall he also reap.' If he sows seeds of unkindness and cruelty to man and beast, no one knows
what the blackness of the harvest will be. His poor horse, quivering under a blow, is not the
worst sufferer. Oh, if people would only understand that their unkind deeds will recoil upon
their own heads with tenfold force but, my dear child, I am fancying that I am addressing a
drawing-room meeting and here we are at your station. Good-bye; keep your happy face and gentle
ways. I hope that we may meet again some day." She pressed Miss Laura's hand, gave me a farewell
pat, and the next minute we were outside on the platform, and she was smiling through the window
at us.

CHAPTER XVI DINGLEY FARM

"MY dear niece," and a stout, middle-aged woman, with a red, lively face, threw both her arms
around Miss Laura. "How glad I am to see you, and this is the dog. Good Joe, I have a bone
waiting for you. Here is Uncle John."

A tall, good-looking man stepped up and put out a big hand, in which my mistress' little fingers
were quite swallowed up. "I am glad to see you, Laura. Well, Joe, how d'ye do, old boy? I've
heard about you."

It made me feel very welcome to have them both notice me, and I was so glad to be out of the
train that I frisked for joy around their feet as we went to the wagon. It was a big double
one, with an awning over it to shelter it from the sun's rays, and the horses were drawn up
in the shade of a spreading tree. They were two powerful black horses, and as they had no blinders
on, they could see us coming. Their faces lighted up and they moved their ears and pawed the
ground, and whinnied when Mr. Wood went up to them. They tried to rub their heads against him,
and I saw plainly that they loved him. "Steady there, Cleve and Pacer," he said; "now back,
back up."

By this time, Mrs. Wood, Miss Laura and I were in the wagon. Then Mr. Wood jumped in, took
up the reins, and off we went. How the two black horses did spin along! I sat on the seat beside
Mr. Wood, and sniffed in the delicious air, and the lovely smell of flowers and grass. How
glad I was to be in the country! What long races I should have in the green fields. I wished
that I had another dog to run with me, and wondered very much whether Mr. Wood kept one. I
knew I should soon find out, for whenever Miss Laura went to a place she wanted to know what
animals there were about.

We drove a little more than a mile along a country road where there were scattered houses.
Miss Laura answered questions about her family, and asked questions about Mr. Harry, who was
away at college and hadn't got home. I don't think I have said before that Mr. Harry was Mrs.
Wood's son. She was a widow with one son when she married Mr. Wood, so that Mr. Harry, though
the Morrises called him cousin, was not really their cousin.

I was very glad to hear them say that he was soon coming home, for I had never forgotten that
but for him I should never have known Miss Laura and gotten into my pleasant home.

By-and-by, I heard Miss Laura say: "Uncle John, have you a dog?"

"Yes, Laura," he said; "I have one to-day, but I sha'n't have one to-morrow."

"Oh, uncle, what do you mean?" she asked.

"Well, Laura," he replied, "you know animals are pretty much like people. There are some good
ones and some bad ones. Now, this dog is a snarling, cross-grained, cantankerous beast, and
when I heard Joe was coming, I said: 'Now we'll have a good dog about the place, and here's
an end to the bad one.' So I tied Bruno up, and to-morrow I shall shoot him. Something's got
to be done, or he'll be biting some one."

"Uncle," said Miss Laura, "people don't always die when they are bitten by dogs, do they?"

"No, certainly not," replied Mr. Wood. "In my humble opinion there's a great lot of nonsense
talked about the poison of a dog's bite and people dying of hydrophobia. Ever since I was born
I've had dogs snap at me and stick their teeth in my flesh; and I've never had a symptom of
hydrophobia, and never intend to have. I believe half the people that are bitten by dogs frighten
themselves into thinking they are fatally poisoned. I was reading the other day about the policemen
in a big city in England that have to catch stray dogs, and dogs supposed to be mad, and all
kinds of dogs, and they get bitten over and over again, and never think anything about it.
But let a lady or a gentleman walking along the street have a dog bite them, and they worry
themselves till their blood is in a fever, and they have to hurry across to France to get Pasteur
to cure them. They imagine they've got hydrophobia, and they've got it because they imagine
it. I believe if I fixed my attention on that right thumb of mine, and thought I had a sore
there, and picked at it and worried it, in a short time a sore would come, and I'd be off to
the doctor to have it cured. At the same time dogs have no business to bite, and I don't recommend
any one to get bitten."

"But, uncle," said Miss Laura, "isn't there such a thing as hydrophobia?"

"Oh, yes; I dare say there is. I believe that a careful examination of the records of death
reported in Boston from hydrophobia for the space of thirty-two years, shows that two people
actually died from it. Dogs are like all other animals. They're liable to sickness, and they've
got to be watched. I think my horses would go mad if I starved them, or over-fed them, or over-worked
them, or let them stand in laziness, or kept them dirty, or didn't give them water enough.
They'd get some disease, anyway. If a person owns an animal, let him take care of it, and it's
all right. If it shows signs of sickness, shut it up and watch it. If the sickness is incurable,
kill it. Here's a sure way to prevent hydrophobia. Kill off all ownerless and vicious dogs.
If you can't do that, have plenty of water where they can get at it. A dog that has all the
water he wants, will never go mad. This dog of mine has not one single thing the matter with
him but pure ugliness. Yet, if I let him loose, and he ran through the village with his tongue
out, I'll warrant you there'd be a cry of 'mad dog!' However, I'm going to kill him. I've no
use for a bad dog. Have plenty of animals, I say, and treat them kindly, but if there's a vicious
one among them, put it out of the way, for it is a constant danger to man and beast. It's queer
how ugly some people are about their dogs. They'll keep them no matter how they worry other
people, and even when they're snatching the bread out of their neighbors' mouths. But I say
that is not the fault of the four-legged dog. A human dog is the worst of all. There's a band
of sheep-killing dogs here in Riverdale, that their owners can't, or won't, keep out of mischief.
Meek-looking fellows some of them are. The owners go to bed at night, and the dogs pretend
to go, too; but when the house is quiet and the family asleep, off goes Rover or Fido to worry
poor, defenseless creatures that can't defend themselves. Their taste for sheep's blood is
like the taste for liquor in men, and the dogs will travel as far to get their fun, as the
men will travel for theirs. They've got it in them, and you can't get it out."

"Mr. Windham cured his dog," said Mrs. Wood.

Mr. Wood burst into a hearty laugh. "So he did, so he did. I must tell Laura about that. Windham
is a neighbor of ours, and last summer I kept telling him that his collie was worrying my Shropshires.
He wouldn't believe me, but I knew I was right, and one night when Harry was home, he lay in
wait for the dog and lassoed him. I tied him up and sent for Windham. You should have seen
his face, and the dog's face. He said two words, 'You scoundrel!' and the dog cowered at his
feet as if he had been shot. He was a fine dog, but he'd got corrupted by evil companions.
Then Windham asked me where my sheep were. I told him in the pasture. He asked me if I still
had my old ram Bolton. I said yes, and then he wanted eight or ten feet of rope. I gave it
to him, and wondered what on earth he was going to do with it. He tied one end of it to the
dog's collar, and holding the other in his hand, set out for the pasture. He asked us to go
with him, and when he got there, he told Harry he'd like to see him catch Bolton. There wasn't
any need to catch him, he'd come to us like a dog. Harry whistled, and when Bolton came up,
Windham fastened the rope's end to his horns, and let him go. The ram was frightened and ran,
dragging the dog with him. We let them out of the pasture into an open field, and for a few
minutes there was such a racing and chasing over that field as I never saw before. Harry leaned
up against the bars and laughed till the tears rolled down his cheeks. Then Bolton got mad,
and began to make battle with the dog, pitching into him with his horns. We soon stopped that,
for the spirit had all gone out of Dash. Windham unfastened the rope, and told him to get home,
and if ever I saw a dog run, that one did. Mrs. Windham set great store by him, and her husband
didn't want to kill him. But he said Dash had got to give up his sheep-killing, if he wanted
to live. That cured him. He's never worried a sheep from that day to this, and if you offer
him a bit of sheep's wool now, he tucks his tail between his legs, and runs for home. Now,
I must stop my talk, for we're in sight of the farm. Yonder's our boundary line, and there's
the house. You'll see a difference in the trees since you were here before."

We had come to a turn in the road where the ground sloped gently upward. We turned in at the
gate, and drove between rows of trees up to a long, low; red house, with a veranda all round
it. There was a wide lawn in front, and away on our right were the farm buildings. They too,
were painted red, and there were some trees by them that Mr. Wood called his windbreak, because
they kept the snow from drifting in the winter time.

I thought it was a beautiful place. Miss Laura had been here before, but not for some years,
so she, too, was looking about quite eagerly.

"Welcome to Dingley Farm, Joe," said Mrs. Wood, with her jolly laugh, as she watched me jump
from the carriage seat to the ground. "Come in, and I'll introduce you to pussy."

"Aunt Hattie, why is the farm called Dingley Farm?" said Miss Laura, as we went into the house.
"It ought to be Wood Farm."

"Dingley is made out of 'dingle,' Laura. You know that pretty hollow back of the pasture? It
is what they call a 'dingle.' So this farm was called Dingle Farm till the people around about
got saying 'Dingley' instead. I suppose they found it easier. Why, here is Lolo coming to see Joe."

Walking along the wide hall that ran through the house was a large tortoise-shell cat. She
had a prettily marked face, and she was waving her large tail like a flag, and mewing kindly
to greet her mistress. But when she saw me what a face she made. She flew on the hall table,
and putting up her back till it almost lifted her feet from the ground, began to spit at me
and bristle with rage.

