Greece for our purposes means not a race, but a culture, a language and literature, and still
more an attitude towards life, which for us begins with Homer, and persists, with many changes
but no breaks, till the closing of the Athenian lecture-rooms by Justinian. The changes no
doubt were great, when politically Greece was living Greece no more, and when the bearers of
the tradition were no longer the lineal descendants of those who established it. But the tradition,
enshrined in literature, in monuments, and in social customs, survived. The civilization of
the Roman Empire was not Italian but Greek. After the sixth century, Hellenism--the language,
the literature, and the attitude towards life--was practically lost to the West for nearly
a thousand years. It was recovered at the Renaissance, and from that time to this has been
a potent element in western civilization. The Dark Ages, and the early Middle Ages, are the
period during which the West was cut off from Hellenism. Yet even then the severance was not
complete. For these were the ages of the Catholic theocracy; and if we had to choose one man
as the founder of Catholicism as a theocratic system, we should have to name neither Augustine
nor St. Paul, still less Jesus Christ, but Plato, who in the Laws sketches out with wonderful
prescience the conditions for such a polity, and the form which it would be compelled to take.
Even in speculative thought we know that Augustine owed much to the Platonists, the Schoolmen
to Aristotle, the mystics to the pupil of Proclus whom they called Dionysius. Only Greek science,
and the scientific spirit, were almost completely lost, and a beginning de novo had to be made
when the West shook off its fetters.

Hellenism then is not the mind of a particular ethnic type, nor of a particular period. It
was not destroyed, though it was emasculated, by the loss of political freedom; it was neither
killed nor died a natural death. Its philosophy was continuous from Thales to Proclus, and
again from Ficino and Pico to Lotze and Bradley, after a long sleep which was not death. Its
religion passes into Christian theology and cultus without any real break. The early Church
spoke in Greek and thought in Greek. In the days of Greek freedom to be a Greek had meant to
be a citizen of a Greek canton; after Alexander it meant to have Greek culture. None of the
great Stoics were natives of Greece proper; Zeno himself was a Semite. Of the later Greek writers,
Marcus Aurelius was a Romanized Spaniard, Plotinus possibly a Copt, Porphyry and Lucian Syrians,
Philo, St. Paul, and probably the Fourth Evangelist were Jews. These men all belong to the
history of Greek culture. And if these were Greeks how shall we deny the name to Raphael and
Michael Angelo, to Spenser and Sidney, to Keats and Shelley? When Blake wrote--

    The sun's light when he unfolds it,
    Depends on the organ that beholds it,

he was summing up, not only the philosophy of the Lake Poets but the fundamental dogma of the
maturest Greek thought. Would not Plato have rejoiced in Michael Angelo's confession of faith,
which Wordsworth has translated for us?

Has the highest aspect of Greek religion ever been better expressed than by Wordsworth himself,
to whom, as to Blake, it came by inspiration and not from books?

The spirit of man does not live only on tradition; it can draw direct from the fountain-head.
We are dealing with a permanent type of human culture, which is rightly named after the Greeks,
since it attained its chief glory in the literature and art of the Hellenic cities, but which
cannot be separated from western civilization as an alien importation. Without what we call
our debt to Greece we should have neither our religion nor our philosophy nor our science nor
our literature nor our education nor our politics. We should be mere barbarians. We need not
speculate how much we might ultimately have discovered for ourselves. Our civilization is a
tree which has its roots in Greece, or, to borrow a more appropriate metaphor from Clement
of Alexandria, it is a river which has received affluents from every side; but its head waters
are Greek. The continuity of Greek thought and practice in religion and religious philosophy
is especially important, and it is necessary to emphasize it because the accident of our educational
curriculum leaves in the minds of most students a broad chasm between the Stoics and the Christians,
ignores the later Greek philosophy of religion altogether, and traces Christian dogma back
to Palestine, with which it has very little connexion.

Our sense of continuity is dulled in another way. There is a tendency to isolate certain aspects
of Hellenic life and thought as characteristic, and to stamp others, which are equally found
among the ancient Greeks, as untypical and exceptional. In the sphere of religion, with which
we are concerned in this essay, we are bidden to regard Plato and Euripides as rebels against
the national tradition, and not as normal products of their age and country. I do not feel
at liberty to pick and choose in this fashion. A national character may be best exemplified
in its rebels, a religion in its heretics. If Nietzsche was right in calling Plato a Christian
before Christ, I do not therefore regard him as an unhellenic Greek. Rather, I trace back to
him, and so to Greece, the religion and the political philosophy of the Christian Church, and
the Christian type of mysticism. If Euripides anticipated to an extraordinary degree the devout
agnosticism, the vague pantheism, the humanitarian sentiment of the nineteenth (rather than
of the twentieth) century, I do not consider that he was a freak in fifth-century Athens, but
that Greece showed us the way even in paths where we have not been used to look to her for
guidance. I am equally reluctant to assume, without evidence, that the later Platonism, whether
we call it religion or philosophy, is unhellenic. It is quite unnecessary to look for Asiatic
influences in a school which clung close to the Attic tradition. It is more to the purpose
to show how a religious philosophy of mystical revelation and introspection grew naturally
out of the older nature-philosophies, just as in our own day metaphysics and science have both
been driven back upon the theory of knowledge and psychology. It should not be necessary to
remind Hellenists that 'Know thyself' passed for the supreme word of wisdom in the classical
period, or that Heracleitus revealed his method in the words 'I searched myself'.

We shall come presently to certain parts of our modern heritage which are not Greek either
by origin or by affinity. These will not be found in Euripides or Plato any more than in Herodotus
or Sophocles. But some developments of religion which our Hellenists particularly dislike,
and are therefore anxious to disclaim as alien to Greek thought and practice, such as asceticism,
sacramental magic, religious persecution, and timid reliance on authority, are maladies of
the Greek spirit, and came into the Church from Hellenistic and not from Jewish sources. It
was Cleanthes who wished to treat Aristarchus as the Church treated Galileo, for anticipating
Galileo's discovery. It was Plutarch, or rather his revered father, who said, 'You seem to
me to be handling a very great and dangerous subject, or rather to be raising questions which
ought not to be raised at all, when you question the opinion we hold about the gods, and ask
reasons and proofs for everything. The ancient and ancestral faith is enough; and if on one
point its fixed and traditional character be disturbed, it will be undermined and no one will
trust it'. It is true that Celsus accused the Christians of saying, 'Do not inquire; only believe.'
But this was not the attitude of Clement and Origen, still less of that most courageous pioneer
St. Paul; it was rather the attitude of the average devout pagan. At this time the defence
of popular superstition was no longer a matter of mere policy but of heartfelt need. Marcus
Aurelius was a great immolator of white cows. The Christians were disliked, not as superstitious,
but as impious. Alexander of Abunoteichos expelled 'Christians and Epicureans' by name from
his séances. Lucian is the Voltaire of a credulous age. As for sacerdotal magic, Ovid explicitly
ascribed the ex opere operato doctrine to the Greeks.

The Christian Church was the last great creative achievement of the classical culture. It is
neither Asiatic nor mediaeval in its essential character. It is not Asiatic; Christianity is
the least Oriental of all the great religions. The Semites either shook it off and reverted
to a Judaism purged of its Hellenic elements, or enrolled themselves with fervour under the
banner of Islam, which Westcott called 'a petrified Judaism'. Christian missions have had no
success in any Asiatic country. Nor is there anything specifically mediaeval about Catholicism.
It preserved the idea of Roman imperialism, after the secular empire of the West had disappeared,
and even kept the tradition of the secular empire alive. It modelled all its machinery on the
Roman Empire, and consecrated the Roman claim to universal dominion, with the Roman law of
maiestas against all who disputed its authority. Even its favourite penalty of the 'avenging
flames' is borrowed from the later Roman codes. It maintained the official language of antiquity,
and the imperial title of the autocrat who reigned on the Seven Hills. Nor were the early Christians
so anxious as is often supposed to disclaim this continuity. At first, it is true, their apologetic
was directed to proving their continuity with Judaism; but Judaism ceased to count for much
after the destruction of the Holy City in A. D. 70, and the second-century apologists appeal
for toleration on the ground that the best Greek philosophers taught very much the same as
what Christians believe. 'We teach the same as the Greeks', says Justin Martyr, 'though we
alone are hated for what we teach.' 'Some among us', says Tertullian, 'who are versed in ancient
literature, have written books to prove that we have embraced no tenets for which we have not
the support of common and public literature.' 'The teachings of Plato', says Justin again,
'are not alien to those of Christ; and the same is true of the Stoics.' 'Heracleitus and Socrates
lived in accordance with the divine Logos', and should be reckoned as Christians. Clement says
that Plato wrote 'by inspiration of God'. Augustine, much later, finds that 'only a few words
and phrases' need be changed to bring Platonism into complete accord with Christianity. The
ethics of contemporary paganism, as Harnack shows, with special reference to Porphyry, are
almost identical with those of the Christians of his day. They differ in many points from the
standards of 500 years earlier and from those of 1,500 years later, but the divergences are
neither racial nor credal. Catholic Christianity is historically continuous with the old civilization,
which indeed continued to live in this region after its other traditions and customs had been
shattered. There are few other examples in history of so great a difference between appearance
and reality. Outwardly, the continuity with Judaism seems to be unbroken, that with paganism
to be broken. In reality, the opposite is the fact.

This most important truth has been obscured from many causes. The gap in history made by our
educational tradition has been already mentioned. And our histories of the early Church are
too often warped by an unfortunate bias. Christianity has been judged at its best, paganism
at its worst. The rhetorical denunciations of writers like Seneca, Juvenal, and Tacitus are
taken at their face value, and few have remembered the convention which obliged a satirist
to be scathing, or the political prejudice of the Stoics against the monarchy, or the non-representative
character of fashionable life in the capital. The modern Church historian, as Mr. Benn says,
has gathered his experience in a college quadrangle or a cathedral close, and knows little
enough about his own country, next to nothing about what morality was in the Middle Ages, and
nothing at all about what it still is in many parts of Europe. In the most recent books, however,
there is a real desire to hold the scales fairly, and Christianity has nothing to fear from
an impartial judgement.

There is also an assumption, which we find even in such learned writers as Harnack and Hatch,
that the Hellenic element in Christianity is an accretion which transformed the new religion
from its original purity and half-paganized Europe again. They would like to prove that underneath
Catholicism was a primitive Protestantism, which owed nothing to Greece. The truth is that
the Church was half Greek from the first, though, as I shall say presently, the original Gospel
was not. St. Paul was a Jew of the Dispersion, not of Palestine, and the Christianity to which
he was converted was the Christianity of Stephen, not of James the Lord's brother. His later
epistles are steeped in the phraseology of the Greek mysteries. The Epistle to the Hebrews
and the Fourth Gospel are unintelligible without some knowledge of Philo, whose theology is
more Greek than Jewish. In the conflict about the nature of the future life, it was the Greek
eschatology which prevailed over the Jewish. Judaic Christianity was a local affair, and had
a very short life.

Further, too much is made of the conflict between the official cults of paganism and Christian
public worship. It is forgotten how completely, in Hellenistic times, religion and philosophy
were fused. Without under-estimating the simple piety which, especially in country districts,
still attached itself to the temples and their ritual, we may say confidently that the vital
religion of the empire was associated with the mystery-religions and with the discipline of
the 'philosophic life'. It is in this region that the continuity of Catholicism with Hellenism
is mainly to be found. The philosophers at this time were preachers, confessors, chaplains,
and missionaries. The clerical profession, in nearly all its activities, is directly descended
from the Hellenistic philosophers.

This claim of continuity may seem paradoxical when we remember the savage persecutions of the
Christians by the imperial government. Of these persecutions there were several causes. The
empire, like all empires of the same type, rested partly on religious support. Augustus encouraged
his court poets to advocate a revival of piety and sound morals. A government cannot inquire
into religious conviction, but it can enforce conformity and outward respect for the forms
of worship as 'by law established'. The Christians and Epicureans were held guilty of the same
political offence--'atheism'. The State had no quarrel with the mystery-religions, which were
a private matter, but open disrespect to the national deities was flat disloyalty. The pagans
could not understand why the Church would make no terms with the fusion of religions (θεοκρασια
{theokrasia}) which seemed to them the natural result of the fusion of nationalities. Apuleius
makes Isis say, when she reveals herself to Lucius, 'cuius numen unicum multiformi specie,
ritu vario, nomine multiiugo totus veneratur orbis'; and she then recounts her various names.
This more than tolerant hospitality of the spirit seemed to the mixed population of the empire
the logical recognition of the actual political situation, and those who deliberately stood
outside it were at least potentially enemies of society. This was the real quarrel between
the Church and the empire. It is the old State religion which Augustine attacks, ridiculing
the innumerable Roman godlings whose names he perhaps found in Varro. It is true that Plato,
Euripides, and Xenophanes had attacked the official mythology with hardly less asperity; but
they did not escape censure, and the Christian alienation from the Olympians was far more fundamental.

The pagan revival under the empire was rather like Neo-Catholicism in France. It was patriotic,
nationalistic, and conservative, rather than strictly religious. Celsus, in his lost book against
the Christians, seems to have appealed to their patriotism, urging them to support their country
and its government in dangerous times. As the Church grew in numbers and power, and the old
traditions crumbled away, largely from the fall in the birth-rate among the upper and middle
classes, the conservatives became more anxiously attached to their own culture, and saw in
Christianity a 'shapeless darkness' which threatened to extinguish 'all the beautiful things
in the world'. We can partly sympathize with this alarm, though not with the foolish policy
which it inspired. The early persecutions were like Russian 'pogroms', instigated or connived
at by the government as a safety valve for popular discontent. For at this time the common
people hated the Christians, and half believed the monstrous stories about them. The attacks
were not continuous, and were half-hearted, very unlike the systematic extermination of Jews
and Protestants in Spain. At Alexandria Hadrian found a money-loving population worshipping
Christ and Sarapis almost indifferently. A wrong impression is formed if we picture to ourselves
two sections of society engaged in constant war. The first real war was the last, under Diocletian;
it was to decide whether paganism or Christianity was to be the state religion. However, there
is no doubt that the persecutions helped to seal the fate of the old culture.

Harnack traces three stages in the Hellenization of Christianity. 'In the earliest Christian
writings, apart from Paul, Luke, and John', he cannot find any considerable traces of Greek
influence. 'The real influx of Greek thought and life' began about 130. The exception is so
important as to make this statement of little or no value. After 130, he says, 'the philosophy
of Greece went straight to the core of the new religion'. A century or so later, 'Greek mysteries
and Greek civilization in the whole range of its development exercise their influence on the
Church, but as yet not its mythology and polytheism; these were still to come'. 'Another century
had to elapse before Hellenism as a whole and in every phase of its development was established
in the Church.' The process which he describes began, in fact, as soon as Christian preachers
used the Greek language, and was never so complete as he says. The Logos-Christology, to which
he justly attributes the greatest importance, is already present in St. Paul's epistles; the
name only is wanting; and the sharp contradiction which he finds between the Christian idea
of a revelation made through a person at a certain date, and the Greek idea of an apprehension
of timeless and changeless truth, always open to individuals after the appropriate discipline,
was faced and in part overcome by the Greek Fathers. Harnack also regards Gnosticism as an
embodiment of the genuinely Greek view of revelation, forgetting that orthodox Platonism was
as hostile to Gnosticism as the Church itself. In rejecting Gnosticism, the Church in fact
decided for genuine Hellenism against a corrupted and barbarized development of it. On the
other hand, there is no period at which we can speak of a complete conquest of Christianity
by Greek ideas. There was a large part of the old tradition which perished with its defenders,
who, obeying the melancholy law which directs human survival, died out to make way for immigrants
and for the formerly submerged classes, the people with few wants, who were indifferent to
a culture which they had never been allowed to share.

One more cause of misunderstanding may be illustrated from the writings of Matthew Arnold.
He divides the human race into Hebraizers and Hellenizers, and classifies the modern English
and Americans as Hebraizers. The fundamental maxim of Hebrew ethics, according to him, is 'Walk
by the light you have'; of Greek ethics, 'Take heed that the light which is in thee is not
darkness'. The Hebraizer is conscientious but unenlightened; the Hellenizer is clear-headed
but unscrupulous. Professor Santayana has lately noted the same difference between the type
of character developed by the Latin nations and by the Anglo-Saxons. The Mediterranean civilization,
older and more sophisticated, is careful to get its values right; the northern man is bent
on doing something big, no matter what, and follows Clough's advice:

    Go! say not in thine heart, And what then, were it accomplished,
      Were the wild impulse allayed, what is the use and the good?

But Santayana does not make the mistake of regarding the Reformation as a return to Palestinian
Christianity. This was, indeed, the opinion of the Reformers themselves; but all religious
innovation seeks to base itself on some old tradition. Christianity at first sought for its
credentials in Judaism, though the Jews saw very quickly that it 'destroyed the Law'. The belief
of the Reformers was plausible; for they rejected just those parts of Catholicism which had
nothing to do with Palestine, but were taken over from the old Hellenic or Hellenistic culture.
But the residuum was less Jewish than Teutonic. On one side, indeed, the Reformation was a
return to Hellenism from Romanism. Early Christian philosophy was mainly Platonic; early Christian
ethics (as exemplified especially in writers like Ambrose) were mainly Stoical. There had been
a considerable fusion of Plato and the Stoa among the Neoplatonists, so that it was easy for
the two to flourish together. Augustine banished Stoical ethics from the Church, and they were
revived only at the Reformation. Calvinism is simply baptized Stoicism; it is logically pantheistic,
since it acknowledges only one effective will in the universe. The creed of nineteenth-century
science is very similar. Puritanism was not at all like Judaism, in spite of its fondness for
the Old Testament; it was very like Stoicism. The Reformation was a revolt against Latin theocracy
and the hereditary paganism of the Mediterranean peoples; it was not really a return to pre-Hellenic
Christianity. It sheltered the humanism of Erasmus and the late-flowering English Renaissance,
and Christian Platonism has nowhere had a more flourishing record than in Protestant Britain.

At the present time a more drastic revolt is in progress among the plebs urbana, which does
in truth threaten with destruction 'what we owe to Greece'. This of course opens an impassable
gulf between him and Greek religion, and a still wider gulf between him and Christianity. The
attempts which are occasionally made, especially in this country, to dress up the Labour movement
as a return to the Palestinian Gospel, are little short of grotesque. The contrast is well
summed up by Belfort Bax, in a passage quoted by Professor Gardner. 'According to Christianity,
regeneration must come from within. The ethics and religion of modern socialism on the contrary
look for regeneration from without, from material conditions and a higher social life.' Here
the gauntlet is thrown down to Christ and Plato alike.

Quite logically the new spirit is in revolt against what it calls intellectualism, which means
the application of the dry light of reason to the problems of human life. It wishes to substitute
for reason what some of its philosophers call instinct, but which should rather be called sentiment
and emotion. There is no reconciliation between this view of life and Hellenism. For science
is the eldest and dearest child of the Greek spirit. One of the great battles of the future
will be between science and its enemies. The misologists have numbers on their side; but 'Nature',
whom all the Greeks honoured and trusted, will be justified in her children.

The new spirit is especially bitter against the Stoical ethics, which as we have seen were
taken over, with the Platonic metaphysics, by Christianity. Stoicism teaches men to venerate
and obey natural law; to accept with proud equanimity the misfortunes of life; to be beneficent,
but to inhibit the emotion of pity; to be self-reliant and self-contained; to practise self-denial
for the sake of self-conquest; and to regard this life as a stern school of moral discipline.
All this is simply detestable to the new spirit, which is sentimental, undisciplined, and hedonistic.
It remembers the hardness of Puritanism, and has no admiration for its virtues.

It is often said that the modern man has entirely lost the Greek love of beauty. This is, I
think, untrue, and unjust to our present civilization, unlovely as it undoubtedly is in many
ways. It is curious that modern critics of the Greeks have not called attention to the aesthetic
obtuseness which showed itself in the defective reaction of the ancients against cruelty. It
was not that they excluded beautiful actions from the sphere of aesthetics; they never thought
of separating the beautiful from the good in this way. But they were not disgusted at the torture
of slaves, the exposure of new-born children, or the massacre of the population of a revolted
city. The same callousness appears in the Italian cities at the Renaissance; Ezzelino was a
contemporary of the great architects and painters. I cannot avoid the conclusion that it is
connected in some obscure way with the artistic creativeness of these two closely similar epochs.
The extreme sensibility to physical suffering which characterizes modern civilization arose
together with industrialism, and is most marked in the most highly industrialized countries.
It has synchronized with the complete eclipse of spontaneous and unconscious artistic production,
which we deplore in our time. Evelyn, in the seventeenth century, was still able to visit a
prison in Paris to gratify his curiosity by seeing a prisoner tortured, and though he did not
stay to the end of the exhibition he shows that his stomach was not easily turned. It is certain
that our repugnance to such sights is aesthetic rather than moral, and probable that it is
strongest in the lower social strata. Several years ago I went to the first night of a rather
foolish play about ancient Rome, in which an early Christian is brought in to be very mildly
tortured on the stage. At the first crack of the whip my neighbours sprang from their seats,
crying, 'Shame! Stop that!'; and the scene had to be removed in subsequent performances. The
operatives in a certain factory stopped the engines for an hour because they heard a cat mewing
among the machinery. Having with difficulty rescued the animal from being crushed they strangled
it. The explanation of this extreme susceptibleness must be left to psychologists; but I am
convinced that we have here a case of transferred aesthetic sensibility. We can walk unmoved
down the streets of Plaistow, but we cannot bear to see a horse beaten. The Athenians set up
no Albert Memorials, but they tortured slave-girls in their law-courts and sent their prisoners
to work in the horrible galleries of the Laureion silver-mines.

This emergence of a new spirit, which seems to be almost independent of all traditions, makes
it difficult to estimate our present indebtedness to Greece in matters of religion. It would
be difficult even if the industrial revolution had not taken place. The northern Europeans
have hardly yet attained to self-expression. Their religion is a mixture of Greek, Latin, and
Hebrew elements which refuse to be harmonized, and which in this country sometimes clash with
the ideal of a gentleman, that lay religion of the English-speaking peoples, which has no longer
any connexion with heraldry or property in land. The English gentleman is not a Greek any more
than he is a Jew. His code makes Odysseus an amusing rascal; Achilles a violent and sulky savage;
and Aristotle's μεγαλοψυχος {megalopsychos} (as has been said) is rather like a nobleman in
a novel by Disraeli, but not like any other sort of gentleman. The Englishman is by nature
religious; but Christianity in its developed form is a Mediterranean religion; in all external
features it might have been very different if it had been first planted north of the Alps.
There is, therefore, a chronic confusion in Protestantism which makes its conflicts with the
Latin Church like the battles of undisciplined barbarians against well-drilled troops.

Nevertheless, though it is so difficult to separate out the various threads which make up the
tangled skein of our modern religion, it may be worth while to make the attempt to distinguish,
first, those parts of current Christianity which are not Greek, in the wide sense which I have
chosen for the word, and then those which, in the same sense, are Greek by origin or affinity.

Among those elements which are not Greek, the first place must be given to the original Gospel,
of which I have said nothing yet. Our records of the Galilean ministry, contained in the three
synoptic Gospels, were not compiled till long after the events which they describe, and must
not be used uncritically. But in my opinion, at any rate, the substance of the teaching of
Christ comes out very clearly in these books. No Hellenic influence can be traced in it; there
is not even any sign of the Hellenized Judaism which for us is represented by his contemporary
Philo. But neither is it possible to call the Gospel Jewish, except with many qualifications.
Christ came before his countrymen as a prophet; he deliberately placed himself in the line
of the prophetic tradition. Like other prophets of his nation, he did not altogether eschew
the framework of apocalyptic which was at that time the natural mould for prophecy. But he
preached neither the popular nationalism, nor the popular ecclesiasticism, nor the popular
ethics. His countrymen rejected him as soon as they understood him. The Gospel was, as St.
Paul said, a new creation. It is most significant that it at once introduced a new ethical
terminology. The Greek words which we translate love (or charity), joy, peace, hope, humility,
are no part of the stock-in-trade of Greek moralists before Christ. Men do not coin new words
for old ideas. Taken as a whole the Gospel is profoundly original; and a Christian can find
strong evidence for his belief that in Christ a revelation was made to humanity at large, in
which the religion of the Spirit, in its purest and most universal form, was for the first
time presented to mankind. This revelation has to a considerable extent passed into the common
consciousness of the civilized world; but its implications in matters of conduct, individual,
social, and international, are still imperfectly understood and have never been acted upon,
except feebly and sporadically. It is a reproach to us that the teaching of Christ must be
regarded as only one of many elements which make up what we call Christianity. The Quakers,
as a body, seem to me to come nearest to what a genuinely Christian society would be.

Secondly, the Greeks escaped the evils of priestly government. The Oriental type of theocracy,
with which they were familiar in the Egypt of the Pharaohs, was alien to their civilization.
Their sacrifices were for the most part of the genial type, a communion-meal with the god.
But even in Greece we must remember the gloomy chthonian rites, and the degradations of Orphism
mentioned by Plato in the Republic. It was introduced by Constantine as part of the Orientalizing
of the empire begun by Diocletian. As Seeley says, 'Constantine purchased an indefeasible title
by a charter. He gave certain liberties and received in return passive obedience. He gained
a sanction for the Oriental theory of government; in return he accepted the law of the Church.
He became irresponsible to his subjects on condition of becoming responsible to Christ.'

The Greeks never had a book-religion, in the sense in which Judaism became, and Islam always
was, a book-religion. But they were in some danger of treating Homer and Hesiod as inspired
scriptures. To us it is plain that a long religious history lies behind Homer, and that the
treatment of the gods in Epic poetry proves that they had almost ceased to be the objects of
religious feeling. Some of them are even comic characters, like the devil in Scottish folklore.
To turn these poems into sacred literature was to court the ridicule of the Christians. But
Homer was never supposed to contain 'the faith once delivered to the saints'; no religion of
authority could be built upon him, and Greek speculation remained far more unfettered than
the thought of Christendom has been until our own day.

Those who have observed the actual state of Christianity in Mediterranean countries cannot
lay much stress on the difference between Christian monotheism and pagan polytheism. The early
Church fought against the tendency to interpose objects of worship between God and man; but
Mariolatry came in through a loophole, and the worship of the masses in Roman Catholic countries
is far more pagan than the service-books. In the imagination of many simple Catholics, Jesus,
Mary, and Joseph are the chief potentates in their Olympus.

The doctrine of the creation of the world in time, which was denied by most pagan thinkers
and affirmed by most Christian divines, belongs to philosophy rather than to religion. The
disbelief in the pre-existence of the soul, a doctrine which for Greek thought stands or falls
with the belief in survival after death, is more important, and may be partly attributable
to Jewish influence. But pre-existence does not seem to have been believed by the majority
of Greeks, and in fact almost disappears from Greek thought between Plato and the Neoplatonists.
It is possible that the Pythagorean and Platonic doctrine may still have a future.

There are some who will insist that these differences are insignificant by the side of the
fact that Christianity was the idealistic side of a revolt of the proletariat against the whole
social order of the time. This notion, which made Christ 'le bon sans-culotte', has again become
popular lately; some have even compared the early Christians with Bolsheviks. It is a fair
question to ask at what period this was even approximately true. Christ and his apostles belonged
to the prosperous peasantry of Galilee, a well-educated and comfortable middle class. The domestic
slaves of wealthy Romans, who embraced the new faith in large numbers, were legally defenceless,
but by no means miserable or degraded. After the second century the comparison of the Christians
to modern revolutionists becomes too absurd for discussion. There is a good deal of rhetorical
declamation about riches and poverty in the Christian Fathers; but unfortunately the Church
seems to have done very little to protest against the crying economic injustices of the fourth
and fifth centuries. From first to last there was nothing of the 'Spartacus' movement about
the Catholic Church. As soon as the persecutions ceased, the bishops took their place naturally
among the nobility.

When we turn to the obligations of modern religion to Greece, it is difficult to know where
to begin.

The conception of philosophy as an ars vivendi is characteristically Greek. Nothing can be
further from the truth than to call the Greeks 'intellectualists' in the disparaging sense
in which the word is now often used. The object of philosophy was to teach a man to live well,
and with that object to think rightly about God, the world, and himself. This close union between
metaphysics, morals, and religion has remained as a permanent possession of the modern world.
Every philosopher is now expected to show the bearing of his system on morality and religion,
and the criticism is often justified that however bold the speculations of the thinker, he
is careful, when he comes to conduct, to be conventional enough. The Hellenistic combination
of Platonic metaphysics with Stoic ethics is still the dominant type of Christian religious
philosophy. It is curious to observe how competing tendencies in these systems--the praise
of isolated detachment and of active social sympathy--have continued to struggle against each
other within the Christian Church.

The place of asceticism in religion is so important, and so much has been written rather unintelligently
about the contrast between Hellenism and Christianity in this matter, that I propose to deal
with it, briefly indeed, but with a little more detail than a strict attention to proportion
would justify. It has often been assumed that a nation of athletes, who made heroes of Heracles
and Theseus, Achilles and Hector, could have had nothing but contempt for the ascetic ideal.
But in truth asceticism has a continuous history within Hellenism. Even Homer knows of the
priests of chilly Dodona, the Selli, whose bare feet are unwashed, and who sleep on the ground.
This is probably not, as Wilamowitz-Moellendorff thinks, a description of savage life, but
of an ascetic school of prophets. For the fastdays which introduced the Thesmophoria were observed
by the Athenian matrons in the same way; they went unshod and sat on the bare earth; and we
may compare the Nudipedalia, ordered by the Romans in time of dearth and mentioned by Petronius
and Tertullian. Prophets and prophetesses fasted at Miletus, Colophon, and other places. National
fasts were ordered in times of calamity or danger, and Tarentum kept a yearly fast of thankfulness
for deliverance from a siege. The flagellation of boys at Sparta hardly comes into account,
being probably a substitute for human sacrifice; but the continuance of the cruel rite till
nearly the end of antiquity causes surprise. The worship of Dionysus Zagreus in Thrace was
accompanied by ascetic practices before Pythagoras. Vegetarianism, which has always played
an important part in the ascetic life, was obligatory on all Pythagoreans; but in this school
there was another motive besides the desire to mortify the flesh. Those who believe in the
transmigration of souls into the bodies of animals must regard flesh-eating as little better
than cannibalism. The Pythagorean and the Orphic rules of life were well known throughout antiquity,
and were probably obeyed by large numbers. The rule of continence was far less strict than
in the Catholic 'religious' life; but Empedocles, according to Hippolytus, advised abstinence
from marriage and procreation, and the tendency to regard celibacy as part of the 'philosophic
life' increased steadily. The Cynic Antisthenes is quoted by Clement of Alexandria as having
expressed a wish to 'shoot Aphrodite, who has ruined so many virtuous women'. But the asceticism
of the early Cynics and of some Stoics was based not on self-devotion and spirituality but
on the desire for independence, and often took repulsive forms. Of some among them it may be
said that they did not object to sensual pleasure, they only objected to having to pay for
it. Desire for self-sufficiency is always part of asceticism, but in the Christian saints it
has been a small part. The Greeks who practised it were from first to last too anxious to be
invulnerable; this was the main attraction of the philosophic life from the time of Antisthenes,
and it remained the main attraction to the end. But Cynicism and Stoicism (which tend to run
together) became gentler, more humane, and more spiritual under the Roman empire. Seneca, Epictetus,
and Marcus Aurelius often seem to be half Christian. Direct influence of Christian ethics at
this early period is perhaps unlikely; it is enough to suppose that the spirit of the age affected
in a similar way all creeds and denominations. Self-mortification tended to assume more and
more violent forms, till it culminated in the strange aberrations of Egyptian eremitism. It
is impossible to regard these as either Greek or Christian; they indicate a pathological state
of society, which can be partly but not entirely accounted for by the conditions of the time.
After a few centuries a far more wholesome type of monachism supplanted the hermits; the anchorites
of the Middle Ages retained the solitary life, but were very unlike the crazy savages of the
Thebaid. In modern times, those who have been most under the Greek spirit have generally lived
with austere simplicity, but without any of the violent self-discipline which is said to be
still practised by some devout Catholics. The assiduous practice of self-mastery and the most
sparing indulgence in the pleasures of sense are the 'philosophic life' which the Greek spirit
recommends as the highest. The best Greeks would blame the life of an English clergyman, professor,
or philosopher as too self-indulgent; we often forget how frugally and hardily the Greeks lived
at all times. But here we have to consider the differences of climate, and the apparent necessity
of a rather generous diet for the Nordic race.

The influence of the Greek mysteries upon Christianity is a keenly debated question, in which
passion and prejudice play too large a part. The information necessary for forming a judgement
has been much enlarged by recent discoveries in Egypt and elsewhere, and, as usually happens,
the importance of the new facts has been sometimes exaggerated. Protestant theology has on
the whole minimized the influence of the mysteries, and has post-dated it, from an unwillingness
to allow that there was already a strong Catholic element in the Christianity of the first
century. Orthodox Catholicism has ignored it from different but equally obvious motives. Modernist
Catholicism has in my opinion antedated the irruption of crude sacramentalism into the Church,
and has greatly overstated its importance in the religion of the first-century Christians.
This school practically denies anything more than a half-accidental continuity between the
preaching of the historical Christ, whom they strangely suppose to have been a mere apocalyptist,
one of the many Messiahs or Mahdis who arose at this period in Palestine, and the Catholic
Church, which according to them belonged to the same type of religion as the worship of Isis
and Mithra. Another bone of contention is the value of the mystery-religions of Greece. The
very able German scholars who have written on the subject, such as Reitzenstein and still more
Rohde, seem to me much too unsympathetic in their treatment of the mystery-cults. Lastly, some
competent critics have lately urged that this side of Christianity owed more to Judaism--Hellenized
Judaism, of course--than has been hitherto supposed.

Plato in the Phaedo says that 'those who established our mysteries declare that all who come
to Hades uninitiated will lie in the mud; while he who has been purified and initiated will
dwell with the gods'. For, as they say in the mysteries, 'Many are the thyrsus-bearers, but
few are the inspired'. This sacramentalism was not unchallenged, as we have already seen from
Plato himself. Diogenes is said to have asked whether the robber Pataecion was better off in
the other world than the hero Epaminondas, because the former had been initiated, and the latter
had not. But Orphism, though liable to degradation, purified and elevated the old Bacchic rites.
As Miss Harrison says, the Bacchanals hoped to attain unity with God by intoxication, the Orphics
by abstinence. The way to salvation was now through 'holiness' (ὁσιοτης {hosiotês}). To the
initiated the assurance was given, 'Happy and blessed one! Thou shalt be a god instead of a
mortal.' To be a god meant for a Greek simply to be immortal; the Orphic saint was delivered
from the painful cycle of recurring births and deaths. And Orphic purity was mainly, though
not entirely, the result of moral discipline. Cumont says that the mystery-cults brought with
them two new things--mysterious means of purification by which they proposed to cleanse away
the defilements of the soul, and the assurance that an immortality of bliss would be the reward
of piety. The truth, says Mr. H. A. Kennedy, was presented to them in the guise of divine revelations,
esoteric doctrines to be carefully concealed from the gaze of the profane, doctrines which
placed in their hands a powerful apparatus for gaining deliverance from the assaults of malicious
demonic influences, and above all for overcoming the relentless tyranny of fate. This demonology
was believed everywhere under the Roman empire, the period of which Mr. Kennedy is thinking
in this sentence, and it has unfortunately left more traces in St. Paul's epistles than we
like to allow. The formation of brotherhoods for mystic worship was also an important step
in the development of Greek religion. These brotherhoods were cosmopolitan, and seem to have
flourished especially at great seaports. They were thoroughly popular, drawing most of their
support from the lower classes, and within them national and social distinctions were ignored.
Their ultimate aim cannot be summed up better than in Mr. Kennedy's words--'to raise the soul
above the transiency of perishable matter through actual union with the Divine'. It has been
usual to distinguish between the dignified and officially recognized mysteries, like those
of Eleusis, and the independent voluntary associations, some of which became important. But
there was probably no essential difference between them. In neither case was there much definite
teaching; the aim, as Aristotle says, was to produce a certain emotional state (ου μαθειν τι
δειν αλλα παθειν {ou mathein ti dein alla pathein}). A passion-play was enacted amid the most
impressive surroundings, and we need not doubt that the moral effect was beneficial and sometimes
profound. When the Egyptian mysteries of Isis and Osiris were fused with the Hellenic, a type
of worship was evolved which was startlingly like Christianity. A famous Egyptian text contains
the promise: 'As truly as Osiris lives, shall he [the worshipper] live; as truly as Osiris
is not dead, shall he not die.' The thanksgiving to Isis at the end of the Metamorphoses of
Apuleius is very beautiful in itself, though it is an odd termination of a licentious novel.
The Hermetic literature also contains doctrine of a markedly Johannine type, as notably in
a prayer to Isis: 'Glorify me, as I have glorified the name of thy son Horus.' I agree with
those critics (Cumont, Zielinski, and others) who attach the 'higher' Hermetic teaching to
genuinely Hellenic sources. But it is not necessary to ascribe all the higher teaching to Greece
and the lower to Egypt.

Much of St. Paul's theology belongs to the same circle of ideas as these mysteries. Especially
important is the psychology which divides human nature into spirit, soul, and body, spirit
being the divine element into which those who are saved are transformed by the 'knowledge of
God'. This knowledge is a supernatural gift, which (in the Poimandres) confers 'deification'.
St. Paul usually prefers 'Pneuma' as the name of this highest part of human nature; in the
Hermetic literature it is not easy to distinguish between Pneuma and Nous, which holds exactly
the same place in Neoplatonism. The notion of salvation as consisting in the knowledge of God
is not infrequent in St. Paul; compare, for example, 1 Cor. xiii. 12 and a still more important
passage, Phil. ii. 8-10. This knowledge was partly communicated by visions and revelations,
to which St. Paul attributed some importance; but on the whole he is consistent in treating
knowledge as the crown and consummation of faith. The pneumatic transformation of the personality
is the centre of St. Paul's eschatology. 'Though our outward man perish, our inward man is
renewed day by day.' The 'spiritual body' is the vehicle of the transformed personality; for
'flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God'. The expression 'to be born again' is common
in the mystery literature.

It would be easy to find many other parallels in St. Paul's epistles, in the Johannine books
which are the best commentary upon them, and in the theology of the Greek Fathers, which prove
the close connexion of early Christianity with the mystery-religions of the empire. Twenty
years ago it might have been worth while to draw out these resemblances in greater detail,
even in so summary a survey as this. But at present the tendency is, if not to over-estimate
the debt of the Christian religion to Hellenistic thought and worship, at any rate to ignore
the great difference between the higher elements in the mystery-religions, which the new faith
could gladly and readily assimilate, and the lower type, the theosophy, magic, and theurgy,
which was not in the line of Hellenic development, and is not to be found in the New Testament.
Wendland, always a judicious critic, has said very truly that St. Paul stands to the mystery-religions
as Plato to Orphism; they are not the centre of his religious life, but they gave him effective
forms of expression for his religious experience. Or, as Weinel says, 'St. Paul's doctrine
of the Spirit and of Christ is not an imitation of mystery-doctrine, but inmost personal experience
metaphysically interpreted after the manner of his time.' Writers like Loisy, who say that
for St. Paul Jesus was 'a Saviour God, after the manner of Osiris, Attis, or Mithra', and who
proceed to draw out obvious parallels between the sufferings, death, and resurrection of these
mythological personages and the gospels of the Christian Church, surely forget that St. Paul
was a Jew, and that there are some transformations of which the religious mind is incapable.
He never speaks of Christ as a 'Saviour God'. Even more perverse are the arguments which are
used to prove that the centre of St. Paul's religion was a gross and materialistic sacramental
magic. The apostle, whose antipathy to ritual in every shape is stamped upon all his writings,
who thanks God that he baptized very few of the Corinthians, who declares that 'Christ sent
him not to baptize but to preach the Gospel', is accused of regarding baptism as 'an opus operatum
which secures a man's admission into the kingdom apart from the character of his future conduct'.
And yet in the Epistle to the Romans, as Weinel says, 'baptism only once enters his mind, and
the Lord's Supper not even once'. Baptism for him is no opus operatum, but a ceremony of social
significance, a symbol conditioning a deeper experience of divine grace, already embraced by
faith. These same critics proceed to illustrate St. Paul's doctrine of the Lord's Supper by
references to the religion of the Aztecs and other barbarians. But it is hardly worth while
to argue with those who suppose that a man with St. Paul's upbringing and culture could have
dallied with the notion of 'eating a god'. The 'table of the Lord' is the table at which the
Lord is the spiritual host, not the table on which his flesh is placed. Does any one suppose
that 'the table of demons' which is contrasted with the 'table of the Lord' is the table at
which demons are eaten? Demons had no bodies, as we learn from the ουκ ειμι δαιμονιον ασωματον
{ouk eimi daimonion asômaton} of a well-known passage in a New Testament manuscript.

Crude sacramentalism certainly came in later. Its parentage may be traced, if we will, to those
mystery-mongers whom Plato mentions with disapproval. If Hellenism is the name of a way of
thinking, this form of religion is not healthy Hellenism; that it was held by many Hellenes
cannot be denied.

The biblical doctrine of the Fall of Man, which the Hebrews would never have evolved for themselves,
remained an otiose dogma in Jewish religion. It was revivified in Christianity under Greek
influence. Man, as Empedocles and others had taught, was 'an exile and vagabond from God';
his body was his tomb; he is clothed in 'an alien garment of flesh'. He is in a fallen state
and needs redemption. Hellenism had become a religion of redemption; the empire was quite ready
to accept this part of Christian doctrine. The sin of Adam became the first scene in the great
drama of humanity, which led up to the Atonement. At the same time the whole process was never
mere history; its deepest meaning was enacted in the life-story of each individual. Greek thought
gave this turn to dogmas which for a Jew would have been a flat historical recital. In modern
times the earlier scenes in the story, at any rate, are looked upon as little more than the
dramatization of the normal experience of a human soul. But Greek thought, while it remained
true to type, never took sin so tragically as Christianity has done. The struggle against evil
has become sterner than it ever was for the Greeks. It must, however, be remembered that the
large majority of professing Christians do not trouble themselves much about their sins, and
that the best of the Greeks were thoroughly in earnest in seeking to amend their lives.

Redemption was brought to earth by a Redeemer who was both God and Man. This again was in accordance
with Greek ideas. The Mediator between God and Man must be fully divine, since an intermediate
Being would be in touch with neither side. The victory of Athanasius was in no sense a defeat
for Hellenism. The only difficulty for a Greek thinker was that an Incarnate God ought to be
impassible. This was a puzzle only for philosophers; popular religion saw no difficulty in
a Christus patiens. The doctrine of the Logos brought Christianity into direct affinity with
both Platonism and Stoicism, and the Second Person of the Trinity was invested with the same
attributes as the Nous of the Neoplatonists. But the attempts to equate the Trinity with the
three divine hypostases of Plotinus was no more successful than the later attempt of Hegel
to set the Trinity in the framework of his philosophy.

The subject of eschatology is so vast that it is hopeless to deal with it, even in the most
summary fashion, in one paragraph. It is usually said that the resurrection of the body is
a Jewish doctrine, the immortality of the soul a Greek doctrine. But the Jews were very slow
to bring the idea of a future life into their living faith; to this day it does not seem to
be of much importance in Judaism. Some form of Millenarianism--a reign of the saints on earth--would
seem to be the natural form for Jewish hopes to take. This belief, which was the earliest mould
into which the treasure of the new revelation was poured, has never quite disappeared from
the Church, and in times of excitement and upheaval it tends to reassert itself. The maturest
Greek philosophy regards eternity as the divine mode of existence, while mortals are born,
live, and die in time. Man is a microcosm, in touch with every rung of the ladder of existence;
and he is potentially a 'participator' in the divine mode of existence, which he can make his
own by living, so far as may be, in detachment from the vain shadows and perishable goods of
earth. That this conception of immortality has had a great influence upon Christian thought
and practice needs no demonstration. It is and always has been the religion of the mystic.
But the Orphic tradition, with its pictures of purgatory and of eternal bliss and torment,
has on the whole dominated the other two in popular Christian belief. It has been stripped
of its accessories--the belief in reincarnation and the transmigration of souls, doctrines
which maintain a somewhat uneasy existence within the scheme of the Neoplatonists. The picture
of future retribution is even more terrifying without them. Both the philosophical and the
popular beliefs about the other world are far more Greek than Jewish; but the attempt to hold
these very discrepant beliefs together has reduced Christian eschatology to extreme confusion,
and many Christians have given up the attempt to formulate any theories about what are called
the four last things. On such a mysterious subject, definiteness is neither to be expected
nor desired. The original Gospel does not encourage the natural curiosity of man to know his
future fate; and the three types of eschatology which we have described have all their value
as representing different aspects of religious faith and hope. The same apostle reminds us
that 'now we see through a mirror, in riddles, and know only in part'; the face to face vision,
and the knowledge which unites the knower and the known, may be ours when we have finished
our course. In these words, which recall Plato's famous myth of the Cave, St. Paul is fundamentally
at one with the Platonists; and it may well be that it is by this path that our contemporaries
may recover that belief in eternal life which is at present burning very dimly among us.

In conclusion, what has the religion of the Greeks to teach us that we are most in danger of
forgetting? In a word, it is the faith that Truth is our friend, and that the knowledge of
Truth is not beyond our reach. Faith in honest seeking (ζητησις {zêtêsis}) is at the heart
of the Greek view of life. 'Those who would rightly judge of truth', says Aristotle, 'must
be arbitrators, not litigants'. 'Happy is he who has learnt the value of research' (ἱστορια
{historia}), says Euripides in a fragment. Curiosity, as the Greeks knew and the Middle Ages
knew not, is a virtue, not a vice. Nature, for Plato, is God's vicegerent and revealer, the
Soul of the universe. Human nature is the same nature as the divine; no one has proclaimed
this more strongly. Nature is for us; chaos and 'necessity' are the enemy. The divorce between
religion and humanism began, it must be admitted, under Plato's successors, who unhappily were
indifferent to natural science, and did not even follow the best light that was to be had in
physical knowledge. In the Dark Ages, when the link with Greece was broken, the separation
became absolute. The luxuriant mythology of the early Greeks was not unscientific. In the absence
of knowledge gaps were filled up by the imagination, and the 'method of trial and error'. The
dramatic fancy which creates myths is the raw material of both poetry and science. Of course
religious myths may come to be a bar to progress in science; they do so when, in a rationalizing
age, the question comes to be one of fact or fiction. It is a mistake to suppose that the faith
of a 'post-rational' age, to use a phrase of Santayana, can be the same as that of an unscientific
age, even when it uses the same formulas. The Greek spirit itself is now calling us away from
some of the vestments of Greek tradition. The choice before us is between a 'post-rational'
traditionalism, fundamentally sceptical, pragmatistic, and intellectually dishonest, and a
trust in reason which rests really on faith in the divine Logos, the self-revealing soul of
the universe. It is the belief of the present writer that the unflinching eye and the open
mind will bring us again to the feet of Christ, to whom Greece, with her long tradition of
free and fearless inquiry, became a speedy and willing captive, bringing her manifold treasures
to Him, in the well-grounded confidence that He was not come to destroy but to fulfil.

W. R. INGE.

PHILOSOPHY

If we consider the philosophical tendencies of the day, we shall probably observe first of
all that the artificial wall of partition between philosophy and science--and especially mathematical
science--is beginning to wear very thin. On the other hand, we cannot fail to notice a reaction
against what is called intellectualism. This reaction takes many forms, the most characteristic
perhaps of which is a renewed interest in Mysticism. It leads also to a strong insistence on
the practical aspect of philosophic thought, and to a view of its bearing on what had been
regarded as primarily theoretical issues, which is known by the rather unfortunate name of
Pragmatism. Now it is just on these points that we have most to learn from the Greeks, and
Greek philosophy is therefore of special importance for us at the present time. At its best,
it was never divorced from science, while it found a way of reconciling itself both with the
interests of the practical life and with mysticism without in any way abating the claims of
the intellect. It is solely from these points of view that it is proposed to regard Greek philosophy
here. It would be futile to attempt a summary of the whole subject in the space available,
and such a summary would have no value. Many things will therefore be passed over in silence
which are important in themselves and would have to be fully treated in a complete account.
All that can be done now is to indicate the points at which Greek philosophy seems to touch
our actual problems. It will be seen that here, as elsewhere, 'all history is contemporary
history', and that the present can only be understood in the light of the past.

The word 'philosophy' is Greek and so is the thing it denotes. Unless we are to use the term
in so wide a sense as to empty it of all special meaning, there is no evidence that philosophy
has ever come into existence anywhere except under Greek influences. In particular, mystical
speculation based on religious experience is not itself philosophy, though it has often influenced
philosophy profoundly, and for this reason the pantheism of the Upanishads cannot be called
philosophical. It is true that there is an Indian philosophy, and indeed the Hindus are the
only ancient people besides the Greeks who ever had one, but Indian science was demonstrably
borrowed from Greece after the conquest of Alexander, and there is every reason to believe
that those Indian systems which can be regarded as genuinely philosophical are a good deal
more recent still. On the other hand, the earliest authenticated instance of a Greek thinker
coming under Indian influence is that of Pyrrho (326 B. C.), and what he brought back from
the East was rather the ideal of quietism than any definite philosophical doctrine. The barrier
of language was sufficient to prevent any intercourse on important subjects, for neither the
Greeks nor the Indians cared to learn any language but their own. Of course philosophy may
culminate in theology, and the best Greek philosophy certainly does so, but it begins with
science and not with religion.

By philosophy the Greeks meant a serious endeavour to understand the world and man, having
for its chief aim the discovery of the right way of life and the conversion of people to it.
It would not, however, be true to say that the word had always borne this special sense. At
any rate the corresponding verb (φιλοσοφειν {philosophein}) had at first a far wider range.
For instance, Herodotus (i. 30) makes Croesus say that Solon had travelled far and wide 'as
a philosopher' (φιλοσοφεων {philosopheôn}), and it is clear from the context that this refers
to that love of travel for the sake of the 'wonders' to be seen in strange lands which was
so characteristic of the Ionian Greeks in the fifth century B. C. That is made quite plain
by the phrase 'for the sake of sightseeing' (θεωριης ἑινεκεν {theôriês heineken}) with which
the word is coupled. Again, when Thucydides (ii. 40) makes Pericles say of his fellow citizens
'we follow philosophy without loss of manliness' (φιλοσοφουμεν ανευ μαλακιας {philosophoumen
aneu malakias}), it is certainly not of philosophy in the special sense he is thinking. He
is only contrasting the culture of Athens with the somewhat effeminate civilization of the
Ionians in Asia Minor. Even in the next century, Isocrates tried to revert to this wider sense
of the word, and he regularly uses it of the art of political journalism which he imparted
to his pupils.

Tradition ascribes the first use of the term 'philosophy' in the more restricted sense indicated
above to Pythagoras of Samos, an Ionian who founded a society for its cultivation in southern
Italy in the latter half of the sixth century B. C. It is notoriously difficult to make any
positive statements about Pythagoras, seeing that he wrote nothing; but it is safer on general
grounds to ascribe the leading ideas of the system to the master rather than to his followers.
Moreover, this particular tradition is confirmed by the fact, for which there is sufficient
evidence, that the name 'philosophers' originally designated the Pythagoreans in a special
way. For instance, we know that Zeno of Elea (c. 450 B. C.) wrote a book 'Against the Philosophers',
and in his mouth that can only mean 'Against the Pythagoreans'. Now the Pythagorean use of
the term depends on a certain way of regarding man, which there is good reason for ascribing
to Pythagoras himself. It has become more or less of a commonplace now, but we must try to
seize it in its original freshness if we wish to understand the associations the word 'philosophy'
came to have for the Greeks. To state it briefly, it is the view that man is something intermediate
between God and 'the other animals' (ταλλα ζωα {talla zôa}). As compared with God, he is 'mere
man', liable to error and death (both of which are spoken of as specially human, ανθρωπινα
{anthrôpina}); as compared with 'the other animals', he is kindly and capable of civilization.
The Latin word humanus took over this double meaning, which is somewhat arbitrarily marked
in English by the spellings human and humane. Now it is clear that, for a being subject to
error and death, wisdom (σοφια {sophia}) in the full sense is impossible; that is for God alone.
On the other hand, man cannot be content, like 'the other animals' to remain in ignorance.
If he cannot be wise, he can at least be 'a lover of wisdom', and it follows that his chief
end will be 'assimilation to God so far as possible' (ὁμοιωσις τω θεω κατα το δυνατον {homoiôsis
tô theô kata to dynaton}), as Plato put it in the Theaetetus. The mathematical studies of the
Pythagoreans soon brought them face to face with the idea of a constant approximation which
never reaches its goal. There is, then, sufficient ground for accepting the tradition which
makes Pythagoras the author of this special sense of the word 'philosophy' and for connecting
it with the division of living creatures into God, men and 'the other animals'. If the later
Pythagoreans went a step further and classified rational animals into gods, men and 'such as
Pythagoras', that was due to the enthusiasm of discipleship, and is really a further indication
of the genuinely Pythagorean character of this whole range of ideas. We may take it, then,
that the word 'philosophy' had acquired its special sense in southern Italy before the beginning
of the fifth century B. C.

It is even more certain that this sense was well known at Athens, at least in certain circles,
not long after the middle of the fifth century. To all appearance, this was the work of Socrates
(470-399 B.C.). Whatever view may be taken of the philosophy of Socrates or of its relation
to that expounded in Plato's earlier dialogues (a point which need not be discussed here),
it is at least not open to question that he was personally intimate with the leading Pythagoreans
who had taken refuge at Thebes and at Phlius in the Peloponnesus when their society came to
be regarded as a danger to the state at Croton and elsewhere in southern Italy. That happened
about the middle of the fifth century, and Socrates must have made the acquaintance of these
men not long after. At that time it would be quite natural for them to visit Athens; but, after
the beginning of the Peloponnesian War (431 B. C.), all intercourse with them must have ceased.
They were resident in enemy states, and Socrates was fighting for his country. With the exception
of the brief interval of the Peace of Nicias (421 B. C.), he can have seen nothing of them
for years. Nevertheless it is clear that they did not forget him; for we must accept Plato's
statement in the Phaedo that many of the most distinguished philosophers of the time came to
Athens to be with Socrates when he was put to death, and that those of them who could not come
were eager to hear a full account of what happened. It is highly significant that, even before
this, two young disciples of the Pythagorean Philolaus, Simmias and Cebes, had come from Thebes
and attached themselves to Socrates. For that we have the evidence of Xenophon as well as of
Plato, and Xenophon's statement is of real value here; for it was just during these few years
that he himself associated with Socrates, though he saw him for the last time a year or two
before his trial and death. Whatever other inferences may be drawn from these facts, they are
sufficient to prove that Socrates had become acquainted with some of the leading philosophers
of the Greek world before he was forty, and to make it highly probable that it was he who introduced
the word 'philosophy' in its Pythagorean sense to the Athenians.

So much for the word; we have next to ask how there came to be such a thing as philosophy at
all. It has been mentioned that Pythagoras was an Ionian, and we should naturally expect to
find that he brought at least the beginnings of what he called philosophy from eastern Hellas.
Now it has been pointed out that Greek philosophy was based on science, and science originated
at Miletus on the mainland of Asia Minor nearly opposite the island of Samos, which was the
original home of Pythagoras. The early Milesians were, in fact, men of science rather than
philosophers in the strict sense. The two things were not differentiated yet, however, and
the traditional account of the matter, according to which Greek philosophy begins with Thales
(c. 585 B. C.), is after all quite justified. The rudimentary mathematical science of which,
as explained elsewhere in this volume, he was the originator in fact led him and his successors
to ask certain questions about the ultimate nature of reality, and these questions were the
beginning of philosophy on its theoretical side. It is true that the Milesians were unable
to give any but the crudest answers to these questions, and very likely they did not realise
their full importance. These early inquirers only wanted to know what the world was made of
and how it worked, but the complete break with mythology and traditional views which they effected
cleared the way for everything that followed. It was no small thing that they were able to
discard the old doctrine of what were afterwards known as the 'elements'--Fire, Air, Earth,
and Water--and to regard all these as states of a single substance, which presented different
appearances according as it was more or less rarefied or condensed. Moreover, Anaximander at
least (c. 546 B. C.), the successor of Thales, shook himself free of the idea that the earth
required support of some kind to keep in its place. He held that it swung free in space and
that it remained where it was because there was no reason for it to fall in one direction rather
than another. In general these early cosmologists saw that weight was not an inherent quality
of bodies and that it could not be used to explain anything. On the contrary, weight was itself
the thing to be explained. Anaximander also noted the importance of rotary or vortex motion
in the cosmical scheme, and he inferred that there might be an indefinite number of rotating
systems in addition to that with which we are immediately acquainted. He also made some very
important observations of a biological character, and he announced that man must be descended
from an animal of a different species. The young of most animals, he said, can find their food
at once, while that of the human species requires a prolonged period of nursing. If, then,
man had been originally such as he is now, he could never have survived. All this, no doubt,
is rudimentary science rather than philosophy, but it was the beginning of philosophy in this
sense, that it completely transformed the traditional view of the world, and made the raising
of more ultimate problems inevitable.

This transformation was effected in complete independence of religion. What we may call secularism
was, in fact, characteristic of all eastern Ionian science to the end. We must not be misled
by the fact that Anaximander called his innumerable worlds 'gods' and that his successor Anaximenes
spoke of Air as a 'god'. These were never the gods of any city and were never worshipped by
any one, and they did not therefore answer at all to what the ordinary Greek meant by a god.
The use of the term by the Milesians means rather that the place once occupied by the gods
of religion was now being taken by the great fundamental phenomena of nature, and the later
Greeks were quite right, from their own point of view, in calling that atheism. Aristophanes
characterizes this way of speaking very accurately indeed in the Clouds when he makes Strepsiades
sum up the teaching he has received in the words 'Vortex has driven out Zeus and reigns in
his stead', and when he makes Socrates swear by 'Chaos, Respiration and Air'. So too the Milesians
spoke of the primary substance as 'ageless and deathless', which is a Homeric phrase used to
mark the difference between gods and men, but this only means that the emotion formerly attached
to the divine was now being transferred to the natural.

The Milesians, then, had formed the conception of an eternal matter out of which all things
are produced and into which all things return, and the conception of Matter belongs to philosophy
rather than to science. But besides this they had laid the foundations of geometry, and that
led in other hands to the formulation of the correlative conception of Limit or Form. It is
needless to enumerate here the Milesian and Pythagorean contributions to plane geometry; it
will be sufficient to remind the reader that they covered most of the ground of Euclid, Books
I, II, IV, and VI, and probably also of Book III. In addition, Pythagoras founded Arithmetic,
that is, the scientific theory of numbers (αριθμητικη {arithmêtikê}), as opposed to the practical
art of calculation (λογιστικη {logistikê}). We also know that he discovered the sphericity
of the earth, and the numerical ratios of the intervals between the concordant notes of the
octave. It is obvious that he was a scientific genius of the first order, and it is also clear
that his methods included those of observation and experiment. The discovery of the earth's
spherical shape was due to observation of eclipses, and that of the intervals of the octave
can only have been based on experiments with a stretched string, though the actual experiments
attributed by tradition to Pythagoras are absurd. It was no doubt this last discovery that
led him to formulate his doctrine in the striking saying 'Things are numbers', thus definitely
giving the priority to the element of form or limit instead of to the indeterminate matter
of his predecessors.

Pythagoras further differed from his predecessors in one respect which proved of vital moment.
So far was he from ignoring religion, that he founded a society in southern Italy which was
primarily a religious community. It is quite possible that he was influenced by the growth
of the Orphic societies which had begun to spread everywhere in the course of the sixth century,
but his religion differed from the Orphic in many ways. In particular, Apollo and not Dionysus
was the chief god of the Pythagoreans, and all our evidence points to the conclusion that Pythagoras
brought his religion, as he had brought his science, from eastern Hellas, though rather from
the islands of the Aegean than from mainland Ionia. He was much influenced, we can still see,
by certain traditions of the temple of Delos, which had become the religious centre of the
Ionic world. There had, of course, been plenty of religious speculation among the Greeks before
Pythagoras, and it was of a type not unlike that we find in India, though there are insuperable
difficulties in the way of assuming any Aegean influence on India or any Indian influence on
the Aegean at this date. It may be that the beginnings of such ideas go back to the time when
the Greeks and the Hindus were living together, though it is still more likely that both the
Greeks and the Indians were affected by a movement originating in the north, which brought
to both of them a new view of the soul. The Delian legend of the Hyperboreans may be thought
to point in this direction. However that may be, the main purpose of the religious observances
practised by the Orphics and Pythagoreans alike was to secure by means of 'purifications' (καθαρμοι
{katharmoi}) the ransom (λυσις {lysis}) of the soul, which was regarded as a fallen god, from
the punishment of imprisonment in successive bodies. There is no reason to suppose that Pythagoras
displayed any particular originality in this part of his teaching. It all depends on the doctrine
of transmigration or rebirth (παλιγγενεσια {palingenesia}), which is often incorrectly designated
by the late and inaccurate term 'metempsychosis'. There is no doubt that Pythagoras taught
this, and also the rule of abstinence from animal flesh which is its natural corollary, but
such ideas had been well known in many parts of Greece before his time. The real difficulty
is to see the connexion between all this and his scientific work. Here we are of course confined
to inferences from what we are told by later writers; but, if the doctrine which Plato makes
Socrates expound in the early part of the Phaedo is Pythagorean, as it is generally supposed
to be, we may say that what Pythagoras did was to teach that, while the ordinary methods of
purification were well enough in their way, the best and truest purification for the soul was
just scientific study. It is only in some such way as this that we can explain the religious
note which is characteristic of all the best Greek science. It involves the doctrine that the
Theoretic Life is the highest way of life for man, a belief still held by Plato and Aristotle,
and to which we shall have to return. We may note at once, however, that it is not an 'intellectualist'
ideal. There is no question of idle contemplation; it is a strenuous way of life, the aim of
which is the soul's salvation, and it gives rise to an eager desire to convert other men. Just
for that reason, the Pythagorean philosopher will take part in practical life when the opportunity
offers, and he will even rule the state if called upon to do so. The Pythagorean society was
a proselytizing body from the first, and it tried to bring in all it could reach, without distinction
of nationality, social position, or sex (for women played a great part in it from the first).
It was precisely its zeal for the reform of human life, and its attempt to set up a Rule of
the Saints in the cities of southern Italy that led to its unpopularity. If the Pythagoreans
had contented themselves with idle speculation, they would not have been massacred or forced
to take refuge in flight, a fate which overtook them before the middle of the fifth century.

It soon proved, however, that the Pythagorean doctrine in its entirety was too high a one for
its adherents, and a rift between Pythagorean religion and Pythagorean science was inevitable.
Those who were capable of appreciating the scientific side of the movement would tend more
and more to neglect the religious rule which it prescribed, and we find accordingly that before
the end of the fifth century the leading Pythagoreans, the men whose names we know, are first
of all men of science, and more and more inclined to drop what they doubtless regarded as the
superstitious side of the doctrine. In the end they were absorbed in the new philosophical
schools which arose at Athens. The mass of the faithful, on the other hand, took no interest
in arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy, and with them to follow Pythagoras meant to
go barefoot and to abstain from animal flesh and beans. These continued the tradition even
after scientific Pythagoreanism had become extinct as such, and they were a favourite subject
of ridicule with the comic poets of the fourth century B. C.

It is easy for us to see now that all this indicates a real weakness in Pythagoreanism. Science
and religion are not to be brought into union by a simple process of juxtaposition. We do not
know how far Pythagoras himself was conscious of the ambiguity of his position; it would not
be surprising if he came to feel it towards the end of his life, and we know for certain that
he lived long enough to witness the beginnings of the revolt against his society in Croton
and elsewhere. It is for this reason that he removed to Metapontum where he died, and where
Cicero was able to visit his tomb long afterwards. We shall see later what the weak point in
his system was, and we shall have to consider how the discord he had left unresolved was ultimately
overcome. For the present, it is more important to note that he was the real founder both of
science, and of philosophy as we understand them now. It is specially true of science that
it is the first steps which are the most difficult, and Pythagoras left a sufficient achievement
in mathematics behind him for others to elaborate. The Greeks took less than three centuries
to complete the edifice, and that was chiefly due to Pythagoras, who had laid the foundations
truly and well.

We have now seen how the two great conceptions of Matter and Form were reached; the next problem
Greek philosophy had to face was that of Motion. At first the fact of movement had simply been
taken for granted. The Ionian tendency was to see motion everywhere; it was rest that had to
be explained, or rather the appearance of it. However, when the new conception of an eternal
matter began to be taken seriously, difficulties made themselves felt at once. If reality was
regarded as continuous, it appeared that there was no room for anything else, not even for
empty space, which could only be identified with the unreal, and it was easy to show that the
unreal could not exist. But, if there is no empty space, it seems impossible that there should
be any motion, and the world of which we suppose ourselves to be aware must be an illusion.
Such, briefly stated, was the position taken up by another Ionian of southern Italy, Parmenides
of Elea (c. 475 B. C.), who had begun as a Pythagorean, but had been led to apply the rigorous
method of reasoning introduced into geometry with such success by the Pythagoreans to the old
question of the nature of the world which had occupied the Milesians. The remarkable thing
about the earliest geometers is, in fact, that they did not formulate the conception of Space,
which seems to us at the present day fundamental. They were able to avoid it because they possessed
the conception of Matter, and regarded Air as the normal state of the material substratum.
The confusion of air with empty space is, of course, a natural one, though it may be considered
surprising that it should not have been detected by the founders of geometrical science. Such
failures to draw all the consequences from a new discovery are common enough, however, in the
history of scientific thought.

Parmenides cleared up this ambiguity, not by affirming the existence of empty space, but by
denying the possibility of such a thing, even before it had been asserted by any one. He saw
that the Pythagoreans really implied it, though they were quite unconscious of the fact. He
is interesting to us as the first philosopher who thought of expounding his system in verse.
It was not a very happy thought, as the arguments in which he deals do not readily lend themselves
to this mode of expression, and we may be thankful that none of his successors except Empedocles
followed his example. It has the very great inconvenience of making it necessary to use different
words for the same thing to suit the exigencies of metre. And if there ever was an argument
that demanded precise statement, it was that of Parmenides. As it is, his poem has the faults
we should look for in a metrical version of Euclid. On the other hand, Parmenides is the first
philosopher of whom we have sufficient remains to enable us to follow a continuous argument;
for we have nothing of Pythagoras at all, and only detached fragments of the rest. We can see
that he was ready to follow the argument wherever it might lead. He took the conception of
matter which had been elaborated by his predecessors and he showed that, if it is to be taken
seriously, it must lead to the conclusion that reality is continuous, finite, and spherical,
with nothing outside it and no empty space within it. For such a reality motion is impossible,
and the world of the senses is therefore an illusion. Of course that was not a result in which
it was possible for men to acquiesce for long, and historically speaking, the Eleatic doctrine
must be regarded as a reductio ad absurdum of earlier speculation. There is no reason to believe,
however, that Parmenides himself meant it to be understood in this way. He believed firmly
that he had found the truth.

Several attempts were made to escape the conclusions of Parmenides, and they all start by abandoning
the assumption of the homogeneity and continuity of matter which had been implicit in the earlier
systems, though it was first brought to the light of day by Parmenides. Here again the influence
of contemporary science on philosophic thought is clearly marked. Empedocles of Agrigentum
(c. 460 B. C.), the only citizen of a Dorian state who finds a place in the early history of
science and philosophy, was the founder of the Sicilian school of medicine, and it was probably
his pre-occupation with that science that led him to revive the old doctrine of Fire, Air,
Earth, and Water, which the Milesians had cast aside, but which lent itself readily to the
physiological theories of the day. He did not use the word afterwards translated 'elements'
(στοιχεια {stoicheia}) for these. It means literally 'letters of the alphabet', and appears
to have been first employed in this connexion by the Pythagoreans at a later date, when they
found it necessary to take account of the new theory. Empedocles spoke of the 'four roots'
of things, and by this he meant to imply that these four forms of matter were equally original
and altogether disparate. That furnished at least a partial answer to the arguments of Parmenides,
which depended on the assumption that matter was homogeneous. He also found it necessary to
assume two sources of motion or forces, as we might call them, though Empedocles thought of
them as substances, one of which tended to separate the 'four roots' and the other to combine
them. These he called Love and Strife, and he supposed the life of the world to take the form
of alternate cycles, in which one or the other prevailed in turn. In all this he was plainly
influenced by his physiological studies. He thinks of the world as an animal organism subject
to what are now called anabolism and catabolism. The details of the theory make this quite
clear. A similar doctrine was taught by Anaxagoras (c. 460 B. C.), who came from Clazomenae
in Asia Minor to Athens after the Persian Wars, and was one of the teachers of Pericles. His
doctrine of 'seeds', in which the traditional 'opposites'--wet and dry, cold and hot--were
combined in different proportions, is rather more subtle than that of Empedocles, and it is
possible to see in it a curious anticipation of certain features in modern chemistry. Anaxagoras
too felt it necessary to assume a force or source of motion, but he thought that one would
suffice to account for the rotation (περιχωρησις {perichôrêsis}) to which he attributed the
formation of the world. He called that force Mind (νους {nous}), but his own description of
it shows that he regarded it as corporeal, though he thought it was something more tenuous
and unmixed than other bodies. There is little doubt that he selected the term in order to
mark the identity of the source of motion in the world with that in the animal organism. That
again is in accordance with the scientific interests of the time. In his astronomical theories,
however, Anaxagoras showed himself a true eastern Ionian, and lagged far behind the Pythagoreans.
For him, as for the Ionians of the Aegean down to and including Democritus, the earth was flat,
and the eddy or vortex which gave rise to the world was still rotation in a plane. A more satisfying
answer to Parmenides was the doctrine of Atomism, which frankly accepted the existence of space,
and asserted that it was just as real as body. The first hint of such a solution was given
by Melissus (c. 444 B. C.), who was a Samian but a member of the Eleatic school. He said, 'If
things are a many, then each of them must be such as I have shown the One to be.' That was
meant as a reductio ad absurdum; but, when Leucippus of Miletus (c. 440 B. C.), who had also
studied in the school of Elea, ventured to assert the existence of the Void, there was no longer
any reason for shirking the conclusion which Melissus had stated only to show its impossibility.
The atoms are, in fact, just the continuous indivisible One of Parmenides multiplied ad infinitum
in an infinite empty space. On that side at least, the theory of body was now complete, and
the question asked by Thales was answered, and it is of great interest to observe that this
was brought about by the renewal of intercourse between the Ionians of Italy and those of the
Aegean, a renewal which was made possible by the establishment of the Athenian Empire. Nothing
makes us feel the historical connexion more vividly than the re-emergence of the names of Miletus
and Samos after all these years. There were, however, certain more fundamental problems which
Atomism could not solve, and which were first attacked at Athens itself. So far, it will be
noted, Athens has played no part at all in our story, and in fact no more than two Athenians
ever became philosophers of the first rank. It is true that they were called Socrates and Plato,
so the exception is a considerable one. It was the foundation of the Athenian Empire that made
Athens the natural meeting-place of the most diverse philosophical and scientific views. It
was here that the east and west of Hellas came together, and that the two streams of tradition
became one, with the result that a new tradition was started which, though often interrupted
for a time, continues to the present day.

If we wish to understand the development of Greek philosophy, it is of the first importance
that we should realize the intellectual ferment which existed at Athens in the great days of
the Periclean age. It has been mentioned already that Anaxagoras of Clazomenae had settled
there, and it was not long before his example was followed by others. In particular, Zeno of
Elea (c. 450 B. C.), the favourite disciple of Parmenides, had a considerable following at
Athens. He made it his business to champion the doctrine of his master by showing that those
who refused to accept it were obliged to give their assent to views which were at least as
repugnant to common sense, and in this way he incidentally did much for mathematics and philosophy
by raising the difficulties of infinite divisibility and continuity in an acute form. All that
is something quite apart from the influence of the 'sophists' at a rather later date, though
they too came both from the east and from the west, and though they had been influenced by
the more strictly philosophical schools of these regions. It was into this Athens that Socrates
was born (470 B. C.) about ten years after the battle of Salamis, and he was naturally exposed
to all these conflicting influences, of which Plato has given us a vivid description in the
Phaedo, from his earliest youth. He cannot, in fact, be understood at all unless this historical
background is kept constantly in view. There can be no reasonable doubt that at a very early
age he attached himself to Archelaus, an Athenian who had succeeded Anaxagoras, when that philosopher
had to leave Athens for Lampsacus. Ion of Chios, a contemporary witness, said that Socrates
had visited Asia Minor with Archelaus, and that appears to refer to the siege of Samos, when
Socrates was under thirty. There is no reason whatever to doubt the statement, which Plato
makes more than once, that he had met Parmenides and Zeno at a still earlier date. At any rate,
the influence of Zeno on the dialectic of Socrates is unmistakable. We may also take it that
he was familiar with all sorts of Orphic and Pythagorean sectaries. Aeschines of Sphettos wrote
a dialogue entitled Telauges, in which he represented Socrates as rallying the extreme asceticism
of the strict followers of Pythagoras. So far, however, as we can form a picture of him for
ourselves, he was not the sort of man to become the disciple of any one. He was a genuine Athenian
in respect of what is called his 'irony', which implies a certain humorous reserve which kept
him from all extravagances, however interested he might be in the extravagances of others.
Nevertheless, while still quite a young man, he had somehow acquired a reputation for 'wisdom',
though he himself disclaimed anything of the sort. He had also, it appears, gathered round
him a circle of 'associates' (ἑταιροι {hetairoi}). The only direct evidence we have for these
early days is the Clouds of Aristophanes (423 B. C.), which is of course a comedy and must
not be taken too literally. On the other hand, a comic poet who knew his business (and surely
Aristophanes did) could hardly present a well-known man to the Athenian public in a manner
which had no relation to fact at all. It is fortunate that there is a passage in Xenophon's
Memorabilia (i. 6) which seems to supply us with the very background we need to make the Clouds
intelligible. It represents Socrates in an entirely different light from that in which he appears
in the rest of the work, and it can hardly be Xenophon's own invention. It seems to refer to
a time when Plato and Xenophon were babies, if not to a time before they were born, and it
is probable that it comes from some literary source which we can no longer trace. We are told,
then, that Antiphon the sophist was trying to detach his companions (συνουσιασται {synousiastai})
from Socrates, and a conversation followed in which he charged him with teaching his followers
to be miserable rather than happy, and added that he was right not to charge a fee for his
teaching, since in fact it was of no value. It will be seen that this implies a regular relation
between Socrates and his followers which was sufficiently well known to arouse professional
jealousy. Socrates does not attempt to deny the fact. He says that what he and his companions
do is to spend their time together in studying the wisdom of the men of old which they have
left behind them in books, and that, if they come upon anything which they think is good, they
extract it for their own use, and count it great gain if, in doing this, they become friends
to one another. It is obvious that this suggests something quite different from the current
view of Socrates as a talker at street corners, something much more like a regular school,
and that, so far as it goes, it explains the burlesque of Aristophanes.

The Socrates of whom we know most is, however, quite differently engaged. He has devoted his
life to a mission to his fellow men, and especially to his fellow citizens. If we may so far
trust Plato's Apology, the occasion of that was the answer received from the Delphic oracle
by Chaerephon, whom we know from Aristophanes as one of the leading disciples of Socrates in
the earlier part of his life. Chaerephon asked the god of Delphi whether there was any one
wiser than Socrates, and this of course implies that Socrates had a reputation for 'wisdom'
before his mission began. The oracle declared that there was no one wiser, and Plato makes
Socrates say in the Apology that this was the real beginning of that mission. He set out at
first to prove that the oracle was wrong, and for that purpose he tried to discover some one
wiser than himself, a search in which he was disappointed, since he could only find people
who thought they were wise, and no one who really was so. He therefore concluded that what
the oracle really meant was that Socrates was wiser than other people in one respect only.
Neither he nor any one else was really 'wise', but Socrates was wiser than the rest because
he knew he was not wise and they thought they were. It ought to be clear that this is mostly
'irony', and it is not to be supposed that Socrates attached undue importance to the oracle,
which he speaks of quite lightly, but he could hardly have told the story at all unless it
was generally known that his mission did in fact date roughly from that period of his life.
Historically it would probably be truer to say that the outbreak of the Peloponnesian War,
in which Socrates served with great distinction as a hoplite, marked the decisive turning-point.
It was in the camp at Potidaea that he once stood in a trance for twenty-four hours (431 B.
C.), and that seems to point to some great psychological change, which may very well have been
occasioned or accelerated by his experiences in the war. At any rate we now find him entirely
devoted to the conversion of his fellow citizens, and we must try to understand what the message
he had for them was.

In the Apology Socrates declares that his mission was divinely imposed upon him, so that he
dare not neglect it, even if it should lead to his death, as in fact it did. The tone here
is quite different from the half-humorous style in which he deals with the Delphic oracle,
and even the 'divine sign'. That only warned him not to do things, mostly quite trivial things,
which he was about to do, and never told him to do anything; this, on the contrary, was a positive
command, laid upon him by God, and there can be no doubt that Plato means us to understand
this to have been the innermost conviction of Socrates. It is hard to believe that Plato could
have misrepresented his master's attitude on such a point. He was present at the trial, and
the Apology must have been written not very long afterwards, when the memory of it was still
fresh in people's minds. Now Plato tells us quite clearly that what Socrates tried to get the
Athenians to understand was the duty of 'caring for their souls' (ψυχης επιμελειο {psychês
epimeleio}). That is confirmed from other sources, and indeed it is generally admitted. The
phrase has, however, become so familiar that it does not at once strike us as anything very
new or important. To an Athenian of the fifth century B. C., on the other hand, it must have
seemed very strange indeed. The word translated 'soul' (ψυχη {psychê}) occurs often enough,
no doubt, in the literature of the period, but it is never used of anything for which we could
be called upon to 'care' in the sense evidently intended by Socrates. Its normal use is to
denote the breath of life, the 'ghost' a man 'gives up' at the moment of death. It can therefore
be rendered by 'life' in all cases where there is a question of risking or losing life or of
clinging to it when we ought to be prepared to sacrifice it, but it is not used for the seat
of conscious life at all. It is sometimes employed to signify the seat of the dream-consciousness
or of what is now called the subconscious or subliminal self, but never of the ordinary waking
consciousness which is the seat of knowledge and ignorance, goodness and badness.[2] On the
other hand, that use of the word is quite common in the fourth century, and it may be inferred
that this change was due to Socrates. More than once Aristophanes ridicules him for holding
some strange view of the 'soul', and these jests were made at a time when Plato was only a
child. We cannot, of course, expect to get any very definite idea from them as to the real
teaching of Socrates on this subject, but it is not impossible to see what it was, if we take
into account the views of the soul which had been held by the philosophical schools of eastern
and western Ionia.

    [2] See my paper on 'The Socratic Doctrine of the Soul'.
    Proceedings of the British Academy, 1915-16, pp. 235 sqq.

The Ionians of Asia Minor had certainly identified the soul with that in us which is conscious,
and which is the seat of goodness and badness, wisdom and folly; but they did not regard it
as what we call the self or treat it as an individual. Anaximenes and his school held that
the soul was what they called Air, but that was just because they regarded Air as the primary
substance of which all things are made. The soul was something, in fact, that comes to us from
outside (θυραθεν {thyrathen}) by means of respiration. As Diogenes of Apollonia expresses it,
it is 'a small portion of the god', that is, of the primary substance, enclosed in a human
body for a time, and returning at death to the larger mass of the same substance outside. The
formula 'Earth to earth and air to air' was accepted as an adequate description of what takes
place at death. The western Ionians, and especially the Pythagoreans, held a very different
view. For them, the soul was something divine. It was, in fact, a fallen god, imprisoned in
the body as a punishment for antenatal sin, and it deserved our care in this sense, that it
was our chief business in life to purify it so as to secure its release from the necessity
of reincarnation in another body. But, during this present life, they held that this divine
element slumbers, except in prophetic dreams. As Pindar puts it, 'It sleeps when the limbs
are active.' Neither of these views was familiar to the ordinary Athenian, but Socrates of
course knew both well, and felt satisfied with neither. When he spoke of the soul he did not
mean any mysterious fallen god which was the temporary tenant of the body, but the conscious
self which it lies with us to try to make wise and good. On the other hand, his insistence
on our duty to 'care for' it is quite inconsistent with the view that it is merely something
extrinsic, as all the eastern Ionians down to Anaxagoras had taught. It is, on the contrary,
our very self, the thing in us which is of more importance to us than anything else whatever.
It was to this doctrine of the soul and our duty to it that Socrates felt he must convert mankind
and especially his fellow-citizens. It was a strange and novel doctrine then; and, if it has
become a commonplace since, that only shows that he was successful, if not in persuading his
fellowmen to act on this knowledge, at least in making them aware of it. It was in this way
that Socrates healed the rift between science and religion which had proved fatal to the Pythagorean
society, and it may be suggested that the significance of his teaching is not exhausted yet.
As has been indicated above it is to be found clearly stated in Plato's Apology of Socrates,
and it furnishes the only clue to a right understanding of the great series of Platonic dialogues
down to and including the Republic in which Socrates is represented as the chief speaker. Whether
Plato added much or little of his own to the doctrine of his master in these dialogues is an
interesting historical problem, but it need not concern the ordinary reader, at least in the
first instance. We know from the allusions of Aristophanes that Socrates himself taught a new
doctrine of the soul when Plato was a child, and no sympathetic reader can fail to see that
the passage of the Apology to which we have referred is intended to be a faithful account of
that doctrine. All the rest is simply its legitimate development, and it is not of very great
importance for us to determine whether that development is due to Socrates or to Plato. The
inspiration which has been derived from these writings by many generations will not be lessened
by any decision we may come to on this point, so long as we keep clearly in mind that the new
doctrine of soul is their principal theme, and that this must be understood in the light of
the doctrines which had prepared the way for it. What Socrates did was really this. He deepened
the meaning of the Eastern Ionian doctrine by informing it with some of the feeling and emotion
which had characterized the Pythagorean teaching on the subject, while on the other hand he
rationalized the Pythagorean theory by identifying the soul with our conscious personality.

Now if this is a correct account of what Socrates taught, he must be regarded as inaugurating
an entirely new period in the history of philosophy. That is implied in the common term 'Presocratics'
generally applied to his predecessors, though the ordinary textbooks are by no means clear
as to the grounds for assigning this pre-eminent position to Socrates. We can also see how
natural it was for him to lay such emphasis on the conversion of souls as he certainly did.
That purpose continued to dominate Greek philosophy to the very end. No doubt successive schools
varied in their conception of what conversion meant, but that is the link which binds them
all together. In fact, it gave rise to a new literary form, the 'hortatory discourse' (προτρεπτικος
λογος {protreptikos logos}), which was more and more cultivated as time went on, and was at
last taken over by the fathers of the Christian church along with much else of a more fundamental
character.

It has been noted already that Socrates had followers among all the leading philosophical schools
of the time, and the possibility is not to be excluded that we may still learn more of him
from the discovery of new sources. For the present, the recovery of some new and fairly extensive
fragments of the Alcibiades of Aeschines of Sphettos is the chief addition to our sources of
information. We know that Aeschines was a disciple of Socrates, and the tradition of antiquity
was that his dialogues gave the most faithful picture of the man as he really was. If so, that
was probably because Aeschines had no philosophy of his own. For us the chief importance of
the new fragments is that, if we read them along with those already known (and it is unfortunate
that the old and the new have not yet been printed together), they strongly confirm the impression
we get from Plato of the manner of Socrates and his method of argument, and that helps to reassure
us as to the essentially historical character of the Platonic Socrates. The fragments of Aeschines
also corroborate Plato by showing that the conversion of Alcibiades (whose life he had saved
when a young man) was one of the things that lay nearest his heart.

But the real successor of Socrates was, of course, Plato himself (427-347 B. C.). It is not
possible to give even an outline of Plato's philosophy here. Indeed the time has hardly come
for that yet, though much admirable work is now being done, especially by a French professor,
M. Robin, which promises more certain conclusions than have yet been possible. All that can
be attempted here is to indicate the attitude of Plato to some of the problems we have been
discussing. His very great contributions to the theory of knowledge will be passed over, as
they are beginning to be well understood, and the Theaetetus in particular, with its sequel
the Sophist, is more and more coming to occupy its rightful place as the best introduction
to philosophy in general. It is necessary, however, just to notice in passing a fundamental
question of method which the Platonic dialogues themselves suggest. It is this. While Socrates
is present in every one of them except the Laws, he takes practically no part in some of them,
and the dialogues in which this is the case are known on other grounds to belong to the later
years of Plato's life. There must be some reason for this, and it is obviously prudent to treat
these later dialogues in the first instance as our primary evidence for Plato's own views.
Indeed, it is only after his philosophy has been reconstructed from these sources and from
the sometimes obscure references to it in Aristotle, that it will be safe to attempt an answer
to the question of how much there may be in the dialogues of his early life which is properly
to be assigned to Plato himself rather than to Socrates. That is a historical question of great
interest; but, as has been said, the solution of it, if that should ever prove possible, would
not greatly affect the impression that Athenian philosophy leaves upon us as a whole.

Now, if we consider Plato's later, and presumably therefore most independent writings, we find,
just as we should expect from a disciple of Socrates, that the doctrine of soul holds the first
place, but that it has certain features of its own which there is no sufficient ground for
attributing to Socrates. We are too apt to think of Plato as mainly occupied with what is called
the 'theory of Ideas', a theory which is discussed once or twice in his earlier dialogues,
and which is there ascribed to Socrates, but which plays no part at all in his mature works.
There the chief place is undoubtedly taken by the doctrine of the soul, and we can see that
it is of the first importance for Plato. Soul is regarded as the source of all motion in the
world, because it is the only thing in the world that moves without being itself moved by anything
else. It is this and this alone that enables Plato to account for the existence of the world
and of mankind, and to avoid the theory of 'two worlds' into which, as he points out in the
Sophist, 'the friends of the Ideas', whoever they may have been, were only too apt to fall.
In Plato this view of the soul culminates in theology of a kind which he nowhere attributes
to Socrates. He represents him, indeed, as a man of a deeply religious nature, but we do not
gather that he had felt the need of a formal doctrine of God. Plato, on the other hand, has
left us the first systematic defence of Theism we know of, and it is based entirely on his
doctrine of soul as the self-moved mover. But the highest soul, or God, is not only the ultimate
source of motion, but also supremely good. Now, since there are many things in the world which
are not good, and since it would be blasphemy to attribute these to God, there must be other
souls in the world which are relatively at least independent. God is not, directly at least,
the cause of all things, but it is not easy to discover the relation in which these other souls
are thought of as standing to God. In the Timaeus, the matter is put in this way. The soul
of the world, and all other souls human and divine, are the work of the Creator, who is identified
with God, and they are not inherently indestructible, since anything that has been made can
be unmade. They are, however, practically indestructible, since God made all things because
He was good and wished them also to be as good as possible. His goodness, therefore, will not
suffer Him to destroy what He has once made. That of course is mythically expressed, and Plato
is not committed to it as a statement of his own belief, since it is only the account which
Timaeus puts into the mouth of the Creator. We can see, however, what was the problem with
which he was occupied, and it is not perhaps illegitimate to infer that he approached the question
which still baffles speculation from the point of view that God's omnipotence, as we should
call it, is limited by his goodness. This is a much more important limitation than that imposed
by the existence of matter, to which Timaeus also refers. In that, he is simply following the
tradition of the Pythagorean society to which he belonged, as is shown by his identification
of matter with space, or rather with 'room'. So far as can be seen at present, we are not entitled
to ascribe this view to Plato without more ado, but that is a point on which the last word
has not yet been said.

The description of the creation given by Timaeus is of course to be regarded as mythical in
its details, but it has features from which we may learn a good deal as to the direction taken
by Plato's thoughts about the world. In particular, while the important part played by geometry
is quite intelligible in the mouth of a Pythagorean, he makes use of certain theories which
we know to belong to the most recent mathematics of the day, in particular the complete doctrine
of the five regular solids, which was due to Theaetetus, who was one of the earliest members
of the Academy, and whom Plato represents as having made the acquaintance of Socrates just
before the master's death. Theaetetus died young, but we know enough of him to feel sure that
he was one of the few great original mathematicians who have appeared in history. In the Timaeus
the theory of the regular solids is used to get rid once more of the doctrine of four ultimate
'elements'. These, Timaeus says, are so far from being elements or letters of the alphabet,
that they are not even syllables. The way in which the so-called elements are built up out
of molecules corresponding in their configuration to the regular solids, and the explanations
of their transmutation into one another based on the geometrical construction of these figures,
is apt to strike the average reader as fantastic, but one of the most distinguished living
mathematicians and physicists has stated that he is struck most of all by their resemblance
to the scientific theories of the twentieth century. It will be well, therefore, to avoid hasty
judgements on this point. It is at any rate easy to understand how the study of mathematics
came to hold the preponderating place it did in the Platonic Academy.

In accordance with the plan of this paper, something must now be said of Plato's attitude to
the practical life, a point on which it is very easy to make mistakes. No one has insisted
more strongly than he has on the primacy of the Theoretic Life. The philosopher is the man
who is in love with the spectacle of all time and all existence and that is what delivers him
from petty ambitions and low desires. He has made the toilsome ascent out of the Cave in which
the mass of men dwell, and in which they only behold the shadows of reality. But, even in this
enthusiastic description of the philosophic life, an equal stress is laid on the duty of philosopher
to descend into the Cave in turn and to rescue as many of their former fellow-prisoners as
may be, even against their will, by turning them to the light and dragging them up into the
world of truth and reality. It is quite easy to understand, in view of this, that Plato devoted
some of the best years of his life to practical affairs and that he relinquished the studies
of the Academy for a time in order to direct the education of Dionysius II. The thing appeared
well worth doing; for Greek civilization in Sicily, and consequently, as we can now see, the
civilization of western Europe, was seriously threatened by the Carthaginians. They had been
held at bay by Dionysius I, but after his death everything depended on his successor. Now the
education of Dionysius II had been completely neglected, but he had good natural abilities,
and his uncle Dion, who was Plato's friend, was ready to answer for his good intentions. Plato
could not turn a deaf ear to such a call. Unfortunately Dionysius was vain and obstinate, and
he soon became impatient of the serious studies which Plato rightly regarded as necessary to
prepare him for his task. The result was a growing estrangement between Plato and his pupil,
which made it impossible to hope for a successful issue to the plans of Dion. It is unnecessary
to tell the whole story here, but it is right to say that there was nothing at all impracticable
in what Plato undertook, and that he was certainly justified in holding that the education
of Dionysius must be completed before it would be safe to entrust him with the championship
of the cause of Hellenism in the west.

His failure to make anything of Dionysius did not lead Plato to abandon his efforts to heal
the wounds of Hellenism. One of the studies most ardently pursued in the Academy was Jurisprudence,
of which he is the real founder. It was not uncommon for Greek states to apply to the Academy
for legislators to codify existing law or to frame a new code for colonies which had just been
founded. That is the real explanation of the remarkable work entitled the Laws, which must
have occupied Plato for many years, and which was probably begun while he was still directing
the studies of Dionysius. It appears to have been left unfinished; for, while some parts of
it are highly elaborated, there are others which make upon us the impression of being a first
draft. Even so, it is a great work if we regard it from the proper point of view. It is, in
the first place, a codification of Greek, and especially Athenian law, of course with those
reforms and improvements which suggest themselves when the subject is systematically treated,
and it formed the basis of Hellenistic, and through that of Roman law, to which the world owes
so much. There is no more useful corrective of the popular notion of Plato as an unpractical
visionary than the careful study of the dullest and most technical parts of the Laws in the
light of the Institutes.

No attempt has been made here to describe the system of Plato as a whole, and indeed the time
has not yet come when such an attempt can profitably be made. We have no direct knowledge of
his teaching in the Academy; for we only possess the works which he wrote with a wider public
in view. In the case of Aristotle (384-322 B. C.), a similar reservation must be made, though
for just the opposite reason. We have only fragments of his published works and what we possess
is mainly the groundwork of his lectures in the Lyceum. It will be seen that there is still
very much to be done here too. From the nature of the case, notes for lectures take a great
deal for granted that would be more fully explained when the lectures were delivered, and some
of the most important points are hardly developed at all. Nevertheless there are certain things
which come out clearly enough, and it so happens that they are points of great importance from
which we can learn something with regard to the philosophical problems of the present day.

In the first place, it is desirable to point out that Aristotle was not an Athenian, but an
Ionian from the northern Aegean, and that he was strongly influenced by eastern Ionian science,
especially by the system of Democritus (which Plato does not appear to have known) and by the
medical theories of the time. That is why he is so unsympathetic to the western schools of
philosophy, and especially to the Pythagoreans and the Eleatics. Empedocles alone, who was
a biologist like himself, and the founder of a medical school, finds favour in his eyes. He
is not, therefore, at home in mathematical matters and his system of Physics can only be regarded
as retrograde when we compare it with that of the Academy. He did indeed accept the doctrine
of the earth's sphericity, but with that exception his cosmological views must be called reactionary.
Where he is really great is in biology, a field of research which was not entirely neglected
by the Academy, but which had been treated as secondary in comparison with mathematics and
astronomy. The contrast between Plato and Aristotle in this respect seems to repeat on a higher
plane that between Pythagoras and Empedocles, and this suggests something like a law of philosophical
development which may perhaps throw light on the present situation. It seems as if this alternation
of the mathematical and the biological interest was fundamental in the development of scientific
thought and that the philosophy of different periods takes its colour from it. The philosophy
of the nineteenth century was dominated in the main by biological conceptions, while it seems
as if that of the twentieth was to be chiefly mathematical in its outlook on the world. We
must not, of course, make too much of such formulas, but it is instructive to study such alternations
in the philosophy of the Greeks, where everything is simpler and more easily apprehended.

On the other hand, Aristotle had been a member of the Academy for twenty years, and that could
not fail to leave its mark upon him. This no doubt explains the fact, which has often been
noted, that there are two opposite and inconsistent strains in all Aristotle's thinking. On
the one hand, he is determined to avoid everything 'transcendental', and his dislike of Pythagorean
and Platonist mathematics is mainly due to that. On the other hand, despite his captious and
sometimes unfair criticisms of Plato, he evidently admired him greatly and had been much influenced
by him. It may be suggested that the tone of his criticisms is partly due to his annoyance
at finding that he could not shake off his Platonism, do what he would. This is borne out by
the fact that, when he has come to the furthest point to which his own system will take him,
he is apt to take refuge in metaphors of a mythical or 'transcendental' character, for which
we are not prepared in any way and of which no explanation is vouchsafed us. That is particularly
the case when he is dealing with the soul and the first mover. On the whole his account of
the soul is simply a development of eastern Ionian theories, and we feel that we are far removed
indeed from the Platonist conception of the soul's priority to everything else. But, when he
has told us that the highest and most developed form of soul is Mind, we are suddenly surprised
by the statement that Mind in this sense is merely passive, while there is another form of
it which is separable from matter, and that alone is immortal and everlasting. This has given
rise to endless controversy which does not concern us here, but it seems best to interpret
it as an involuntary outburst of the Platonism Aristotle could not wholly renounce. Very similar
is the passage where he tries to explain how the first mover, though itself unmoved, communicates
motion to the world. 'It moves it like a thing beloved,' he tells us, and leaves us to make
what we can of that. And yet we cannot help feeling that, in passages like this, we come far
nearer to the beliefs Aristotle really cared about than we do anywhere else. At heart he is
a Platonist in spite of himself.

Aristotle's attitude to the practical life is also dependent on Plato's. In the Tenth Book
of the Ethics he puts the claims of the Contemplative Life even higher than Plato ever did,
so that the practical life appears to be only ancillary to it. He does not feel in the same
degree as Plato the call for the philosopher to descend once more into the Cave for the sake
of the prisoners there, and altogether he seems far more indifferent to the practical interests
of life. Nevertheless he followed Plato's lead in giving much of his time to the study of Politics
and that too with the distinctly practical aim of training legislators. He has often been criticized
for his failure to see that the days of the city-state were numbered, and for the way in which
he ignores the rise of an imperial monarchy in the person of his own pupil Alexander the Great.
That, however, is not quite fair. Aristotle had a healthy dislike of princes and courts, and
the city-state still appealed to him as the normal form of political organization. He could
not believe that it would ever be superseded, and he wished to contribute to its better administration.
He had, in fact, a much more conservative outlook than Plato, who was inclined to think with
Isocrates, that the revival of monarchy was the only thing that could preserve Hellenism as
things were then. We must remember that Aristotle was not himself a citizen of any free state,
and that he could hardly be expected to have the same political instincts as Plato, who belonged
by birth to the governing classes of Athens and had inherited the liberal traditions of the
Periclean Age. This comes out best of all perhaps, in the attitude of the two philosophers
to the question of slavery. In the Laws, which deals with existing conditions, Plato of course
recognizes the de facto existence of slavery, though he is very sensible of its dangers and
makes many legislative proposals with a view to their mitigation. In the Republic, on the other
hand, where there is no need to trouble about existing conditions, he makes Socrates picture
for us a community in which there are apparently no slaves at all. Aristotle is also anxious
to mitigate the worst abuses of slavery, but he justifies the institution as a permanent one
by the consideration that barbarians are 'slaves by nature' and that it is for their own interest
to be 'living tools'. This insistence upon the fundamental distinction between Greeks and barbarians
must have seemed an anachronism to many of Aristotle's contemporaries and it had been expressly
denounced by Plato as unscientific.

The immediate effect of Aristotle's rejection of Platonist mathematics was one he certainly
neither foresaw nor intended. It was to make a breach between philosophy and science. Mathematical
science, whether Aristotle realized it or not, was still in the vigour of its first youth,
and mathematicians were stirred by the achievements of the last generation to attempt the solution
of still higher problems. If the Lyceum turned away from them, they were quite prepared to
carry on the Academic tradition by themselves, and they succeeded for a time beyond all expectation.
The third century B. C. was, in fact, the Golden Age of Greek mathematics, and it has been
suggested that this was due to the emancipation of mathematics from philosophy. If that were
true, it would be very important for us to know it; but it can, I think, be shown that it is
not true. The great mathematicians of the third century were certainly carrying on the tradition
of their predecessors who had been philosophers as well as mathematicians, and it is not to
be wondered at that they were able to do so for a time. But the really striking fact is surely
that Greek mathematics became sterile in a comparatively short time, and that no further advance
was made till the days of Descartes and Leibniz, with whom philosophy and mathematics once
more went hand in hand.

Nor was the effect of this divorce on philosophy itself less disastrous. Theophrastus continued
Aristotle's work on Aristotle's lines, and founded the science of Botany as his predecessor
had founded that of Zoology, but the Peripatetic School practically died out with him and had
very little influence till the study of Aristotle was revived long afterwards by the Neoplatonists.

For the present, the divorce of science and philosophy was complete. The Stoics and the Epicureans
had both, indeed, a scientific system, but their philosophy was in no sense based upon it.
The attitude of Epicurus to science is particularly well marked. He took no interest in it
whatever as such, but he used it as an instrument to free men from the religious fear to which
he attributed human unhappiness. For that purpose, the science of the Academy, which had led
up to a theology, was obviously unsuitable, and, like a true eastern Ionian as he was, Epicurus
harked back to the atomic theory of Democritus, adding to it, however, certain things which
really made nonsense of it, such, for instance, as the theory of absolute weight and lightness,
which Aristotle had unfortunately taught. The Stoics too were corporealists, and found such
science as they required in the system of Heraclitus, though they also adopted for polemical
purposes much of Aristotle's Logic, taking pains, however, to alter his terminology. Both these
schools, in fact, while remaining faithful to the idea of philosophy as conversion, forgot
that it had always been based on science in its best days. It was this, no doubt, which chiefly
commended Stoicism and Epicureanism to the Romans, who were never really interested in science.
Both Stoicism and Epicureanism made a practical appeal, though of a different kind, and that
served to gain credit for them at Rome.

The Academy which Plato had founded still continued to exist, though it was diverted from its
original purpose not more than a generation after Plato's death. Mathematics, we have seen,
had made itself independent, and the most pressing necessity of the time was certainly the
criticism of the new dogmatism which the Stoics had introduced. That was really carrying on
one side of Platonism and not the least important. It is true indeed that the Academy appears
to us at this distance of time mainly as a school of scepticism, but we must remember that
its scepticism was directed entirely to the sensible world, as to which the attitude of Plato
himself was not fundamentally different. The real sceptics always refused to admit that the
Academics were sceptics in the proper sense of the word, and it is possible that the tradition
of Platonism proper was never wholly broken. At any rate, by the first century B. C., we begin
to notice that Stoicism tends to become more and more Platonic. The study of Plato's Timaeus
came into favour again, and the commentary which Posidonius (c. 100 B. C.) wrote upon it had
great influence on the development of philosophy down to the end of the Middle Ages. It is
this period of eclecticism which is reflected for us in the philosophical writings of Cicero.
It had great importance for the history of civilization, but it is far removed from the spirit
of genuine Greek philosophy. That was dead for the present, and it did not come to life again
till the third century of our era, when Platonism was revived at Rome by Plotinus.

It is only quite recently that historians of Greek philosophy have begun to do justice to 'Neoplatonism'.
That is partly due to the contemporary philosophical tendencies noted at the beginning of this
paper, and partly to historical investigations into the philosophy of the Middle Ages, which
is more and more seen to be dependent mainly on Neoplatonism down to and including the system
of St. Thomas Aquinas. It was in fact the most decisive fact in the history of Western European
civilization that Plotinus founded his school at Rome rather than at Athens or Alexandria;
for that is how Western Europe became the real heir to the philosophy of Greece. Every one
knows, of course, that Plotinus was a 'mystic', but the term is apt to suggest quite wrong
ideas about him. He is often spoken of still as a man who introduced oriental ideas into Greek
philosophy, and he is popularly supposed to have been an Egyptian. That is most improbable;
and, if it were true, it would only make it the more remarkable that, though he certainly studied
at Alexandria for eleven years, he never even mentions the religion of Isis, which was so fashionable
at Rome in his day, and which had fascinated so genuine a Greek as Plutarch some generations
before. There is no doubt that what Plotinus believed himself to be teaching was genuine Platonism,
and that he had prepared himself for the task by a careful study of Aristotle and even of Stoicism,
so far as that served his purpose. No doubt he was too great a man to make himself the mere
mouthpiece of another's thought; but, for all that, he was the legitimate successor of Plato,
and it may be added that M. Robin, who has taken upon himself the arduous task of extracting
Plato's real philosophy from the writings of Aristotle, has come to the conclusion that there
is a great deal more 'Neoplatonism' in Plato than is sometimes supposed.

Plotinus is a mystic, then, though not at all in the sense in which the term is often misused.
He sets before his disciples a 'way of life' which leads by stages to the highest life of all,
but that is just what Pythagoras and Plato had done, and it is only the continuation of a tradition
which goes back among the Greeks to the sixth century B. C., nearly a thousand years before
the time of Plotinus. His aim, like that of his predecessors, is the conversion of souls to
this way of life, and he differs from such thinkers as the Stoics and the Epicureans in holding
that the 'way of life' to which he calls them must be based once more on a systematic doctrine
of God, the World and Man. The result was that the divorce which had existed for centuries
between science and philosophy was once more annulled. We cannot say, indeed, that Plotinus
himself made any special study of Mathematics, but there is no doubt at all that his followers
did, and it is due to them, and especially to Proclus, that we know as much of Greek Mathematics
as we do. Proclus was indeed the systematizer of the doctrine of Plotinus, though he differs
from him on certain points, and his influence on later philosophy cannot be overestimated.
It can be distinctly traced even in Descartes, whom it reached through a number of channels,
the study of which has recently been undertaken by a French scholar, Professor Gilson, of the
University of Strasbourg. When his researches are complete, the continuity of Greek and modern
philosophy will be plainly seen, and the part played by Platonism in the making of the modern
European mind will be made manifest. We shall then understand better than ever why Greek philosophy
is a subject of perennial interest.

The history of Greek philosophy is, in fact, the history of our own spiritual past, and it
is impossible to understand the present without taking it into account. In particular, the
Platonist tradition underlies the whole of western civilization. It was at Rome, as has been
pointed out, that Plotinus taught, and it was in certain Latin translations of the writings
of his school that St. Augustine found the basis for a Christian philosophy he was seeking.
It was Augustine's great authority in the Latin Church that made Platonism its official philosophy
for centuries. It is a complete mistake to suppose that the thinking of the Middle Ages was
dominated by the authority of Aristotle. It was not till the thirteenth century that Aristotle
was known at all, and even then he was studied in the light of Platonism, just as he had been
by Plotinus and his followers. It was only at the very close of the Middle Ages that he acquired
the predominance which has made so strong an impression on the centuries that followed. It
was from the Platonist tradition, too, that the science of the earlier Middle Ages came. A
considerable portion of Plato's Timaeus had been translated into Latin in the fourth century
by Chalcidius with a very elaborate commentary based on ancient sources, while the Consolation
of Philosophy, written in prison by the Roman Platonist Boethius in A. D. 525, was easily the
most popular book of the Middle Ages. It was translated into English by Alfred the Great and
by Chaucer, and into many other European languages. It was on these foundations that the French
Platonism of the twelfth century, and especially that of the School of Chartres, was built
up, and the influence of that school in England was very great indeed. The names of Grosseteste
and Roger Bacon may just be mentioned in this connexion, and it would not be hard to show that
the special character of the contribution which English writers have been able to make to science
and philosophy is in large measure attributable to this influence.

But the interest of Greek philosophy is not only historical; it is full of instruction for
the future too. Since the time of Locke, philosophy has been apt to limit itself to discussions
about the nature of knowledge, and to leave questions about the nature of the world to specialists.
The history of Greek philosophy shows the danger of this unnatural division of the province
of thought, and the more we study it, the more we shall feel the need of a more comprehensive
view. The 'philosophy of things human', as the Greeks called it, is only one department among
others, and the theory of knowledge is only one department of that. If studied in isolation
from the whole, it must inevitably become one-sided. From Greek philosophy we can also learn
that it is fatal to divorce speculation from the service of mankind. The notion that philosophy
could be so isolated would have been wholly unintelligible to any of the great Greek thinkers,
and most of all perhaps to the Platonists who are often charged with this very heresy. Above
all, we can learn from Greek philosophy the paramount importance of what we call the personality
and they called the soul. It was just because the Greeks realized this that the genuinely Hellenic
idea of conversion played so great a part in their thinking and in their lives. That, above
all, is the lesson they have to teach, and that is why the writings of their great philosophers
have still the power to convert the souls of all that will receive their teaching with humility.

J. BURNET.

MATHEMATICS AND ASTRONOMY

It has been well said that, if we would study any subject properly, we must study it as something
that is alive and growing and consider it with reference to its growth in the past. As most
of the vital forces and movements in modern civilization had their origin in Greece, this means
that, to study them properly, we must get back to Greece. So it is with the literature of modern
countries, or their philosophy, or their art; we cannot study them with the determination to
get to the bottom and understand them without the way pointing eventually back to Greece.

When we think of the debt which mankind owes to the Greeks, we are apt to think too exclusively
of the masterpieces in literature and art which they have left us. But the Greek genius was
many-sided; the Greek, with his insatiable love of knowledge, his determination to see things
as they are and to see them whole, his burning desire to be able to give a rational explanation
of everything in heaven and earth, was just as irresistibly driven to natural science, mathematics,
and exact reasoning in general, or logic.

To quote from a brilliant review of a well-known work: 'To be a Greek was to seek to know,
to know the primordial substance of matter, to know the meaning of number, to know the world
as a rational whole. In no spirit of paradox one may say that Euclid is the most typical Greek:
he would know to the bottom, and know as a rational system, the laws of the measurement of
the earth. Plato, too, loved geometry and the wonders of numbers; he was essentially Greek
because he was essentially mathematical.... And if one thus finds the Greek genius in Euclid
and the Posterior Analytics, one will understand the motto written over the Academy, μηδεις
αγεωμετρητος εισιτω {mêdeis ageômetrêtos eisitô}. To know what the Greek genius meant you must
(if one may speak εν αινιγματι {en ainigmati}) begin with geometry.'

Mathematics, indeed, plays an important part in Greek philosophy: there are, for example, many
passages in Plato and Aristotle for the interpretation of which some knowledge of the technique
of Greek mathematics is the first essential. Hence it should be part of the equipment of every
classical student that he should have read substantial portions of the works of the Greek mathematicians
in the original, say, some of the early books of Euclid in full and the definitions (at least)
of the other books, as well as selections from other writers. Von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff has
included in his Griechisches Lesebuch extracts from Euclid, Archimedes and Heron of Alexandria;
and the example should be followed in this country.

Acquaintance with the original works of the Greek mathematicians is no less necessary for any
mathematician worthy of the name. Mathematics is a Greek science. So far as pure geometry is
concerned, the mathematician's technical equipment is almost wholly Greek. The Greeks laid
down the principles, fixed the terminology and invented the methods ab initio; moreover, they
did this with such certainty that in the centuries which have since elapsed there has been
no need to reconstruct, still less to reject as unsound, any essential part of their doctrine.

Consider first the terminology of mathematics. Almost all the standard terms are Greek or Latin
translations from the Greek, and, although the mathematician may be taught their meaning without
knowing Greek, he will certainly grasp their significance better if he knows them as they arise
and as part of the living language of the men who invented them. Take the word isosceles; a
schoolboy can be shown what an isosceles triangle is, but, if he knows nothing of the derivation,
he will wonder why such an apparently outlandish term should be necessary to express so simple
an idea. But if the mere appearance of the word shows him that it means a thing with equal
legs, being compounded of ισος {isos}, equal, and σκελος {skelos}, a leg, he will understand
its appropriateness and will have no difficulty in remembering it. Equilateral, on the other
hand, is borrowed from the Latin, but it is merely the Latin translation of the Greek ισοπλευρος
{isopleuros}, equal-sided. Parallelogram again can be explained to a Greekless person, but
it will be far better understood by one who sees in it the two words παραλληλος {parallêlos}
and γραμμη {grammê} and realizes that it is a short way of expressing that the figure in question
is contained by parallel lines; and we shall best understand the word parallel itself if we
see in it the statement of the fact that the two straight lines so described go alongside one
another, παρ' αλληλας {par' allêlas}, all the way. Similarly a mathematician should know that
a rhombus is so called from its resemblance to a form of spinning-top (ῥομβος {rhombos} from
ῥεμβω {rhembô}, to spin) and that, just as a parallelogram is a figure formed by two pairs
of parallel straight lines, so a parallelepiped is a solid figure bounded by three pairs of
parallel planes (παραλληλος {parallêlos}, parallel, and επιπεδος {epipedos}, plane); incidentally,
in the latter case, he will be saved from writing 'parallelopiped', a monstrosity which has
disfigured not a few textbooks of geometry. Another good example is the word hypotenuse; it
comes from the verb ὑποτεινειν {hypoteinein} (c. ὑπο {hypo} and acc. or simple acc.), to stretch
under, or, in its Latin form, to subtend, which term is used quite generally for 'to be opposite
to'; in our phraseology the word hypotenuse is restricted to that side of a right-angled triangle
which is opposite to the right angle, being short for the expression used in Eucl. i. 47, ἡ
την ορθην γωνιαν ὑποτεινουσα πλευρα {hê tên orthên gônian hypoteinousa pleura}, 'the side subtending
the right angle', which accounts for the feminine participial form ὑποτεινουσα {hypoteinousa},
hypotenuse. If mathematicians had had more Greek, perhaps the misspelt form 'hypothenuse' would
not have survived so long.

To take an example outside the Elements, how can a mathematician properly understand the term
latus rectum used in conic sections unless he has seen it in Apollonius as the erect side (ορθια
πλευρα {orthia pleura}) of a certain rectangle in the case of each of the three conics?[3]
The word ordinate can hardly convey anything to one who does not know that it is what Apollonius
describes as 'the straight line drawn down (from a point on the curve) in the prescribed or
ordained manner (τεταγμενως κατηγμενη {tetagmenôs katêgmenê})'. Asymptote again comes from
ασυμπτωτος {asymptôtos}, non-meeting, non-secant, and had with the Greeks a more general signification
as well as the narrower one which it has for us: it was sometimes used of parallel lines, which
also 'do not meet'.

    [3] In the case of the parabola, the base (as distinct from the
    'erect side') of the rectangle is what is called the abscissa (Gk.
    αποτεμνομενη {apotemnomenê}, 'cut off') of the ordinate, and the
    rectangle itself is equal to the square on the ordinate. In the case
    of the central conics, the base of the rectangle is 'the transverse
    side of the figure' or the transverse diameter (the diameter of
    reference), and the rectangle is equal to the square on the diameter
    conjugate to the diameter of reference.

Again, if we take up a textbook of geometry written in accordance with the most modern Education
Board circular or University syllabus, we shall find that the phraseology used (except where
made more colloquial and less scientific) is almost all pure Greek. The Greek tongue was extraordinarily
well adapted as a vehicle of scientific thought. One of the characteristics of Euclid's language
which his commentator Proclus is most fond of emphasizing is its marvellous exactness (ακριβεια
{akribeia}). The language of the Greek geometers is also wonderfully concise, notwithstanding
all appearances to the contrary. One of the complaints often made against Euclid is that he
is 'diffuse'. Yet (apart from abbreviations in writing) it will be found that the exposition
of corresponding matters in modern elementary textbooks generally takes up, not less, but more
space. And, to say nothing of the perfect finish of Archimedes's treatises, we shall find in
Heron, Ptolemy and Pappus veritable models of concise statement. The purely geometrical proof
by Heron of the formula for the area of a triangle, Δ{D}=√{s(s-a)(s-b)(s-c)}, and the geometrical
propositions in Book I of Ptolemy's Syntaxis (including 'Ptolemy's Theorem') are cases in point.

The principles of geometry and arithmetic (in the sense of the theory of numbers) are stated
in the preliminary matter of Books I and VII of Euclid. But Euclid was not their discoverer;
they were gradually evolved from the time of Pythagoras onwards. Aristotle is clear about the
nature of the principles and their classification. Every demonstrative science, he says, has
to do with three things, the subject-matter, the things proved, and the things from which the
proof starts (εξ ὡν {ex hôn}). It is not everything that can be proved, otherwise the chain
of proof would be endless; you must begin somewhere, and you must start with things admitted
but indemonstrable. These are, first, principles common to all sciences which are called axioms
or common opinions, as that 'of two contradictories one must be true', or 'if equals be subtracted
from equals, the remainders are equal'; secondly, principles peculiar to the subject-matter
of the particular science, say geometry. First among the latter principles are definitions;
there must be agreement as to what we mean by certain terms. But a definition asserts nothing
about the existence or non-existence of the thing defined. The existence of the various things
defined has to be proved except in the case of a few primary things in each science the existence
of which is indemonstrable and must be assumed among the first principles of the science; thus
in geometry we must assume the existence of points and lines, and in arithmetic of the unit.
Lastly, we must assume certain other things which are less obvious and cannot be proved but
yet have to be accepted; these are called postulates, because they make a demand on the faith
of the learner. Euclid's Postulates are of this kind, especially that known as the parallel-postulate.

The methods of solution of problems were no doubt first applied in particular cases and then
gradually systematized; the technical terms for them were probably invented later, after the
methods themselves had become established.

One method of solution was the reduction of one problem to another. This was called απαγωγη
{apagôgê}, a term which seems to occur first in Aristotle. But instances of such reduction
occurred long before. Hippocrates of Chios reduced the problem of duplicating the cube to that
of finding two mean proportionals in continued proportion between two straight lines, that
is, he showed that, if the latter problem could be solved, the former was thereby solved also;
and it is probable that there were still earlier cases in the Pythagorean geometry.

Next there is the method of mathematical analysis. This method is said to have been 'communicated'
or 'explained' by Plato to Leodamas of Thasos; but, like reduction (to which it is closely
akin), analysis in the mathematical sense must have been in use much earlier. Analysis and
its correlative synthesis are defined by Pappus: 'in analysis we assume that which is sought
as if it were already done, and we inquire what it is from which this results, and again what
is the antecedent cause of the latter, and so on, until by so retracing our steps we come upon
something already known or belonging to the class of principles. But in synthesis, reversing
the process, we take as already done that which was last arrived at in the analysis, and, by
arranging in their natural order as consequences what were before antecedents and successively
connecting them one with another, we arrive finally at the construction of that which was sought.'

The method of reductio ad absurdum is a variety of analysis. Starting from a hypothesis, namely
the contradictory of what we desire to prove, we use the same process of analysis, carrying
it back until we arrive at something admittedly false or absurd. Aristotle describes this method
in various ways as reductio ad absurdum, proof per impossibile, or proof leading to the impossible.
But here again, though the term was new, the method was not. The paradoxes of Zeno are classical
instances.

Lastly, the Greeks established the form of exposition which still governs geometrical work,
simply because it is dictated by strict logic. It is seen in Euclid's propositions, with their
separate formal divisions, to which specific names were afterwards assigned, (1) the enunciation
(προτασις {protasis}), (2) the setting-out (εκθεσις {ekthesis}), (3) the διορισμος {diorismos},
being a re-statement of what we are required to do or prove, not in general terms (as in the
enunciation), but with reference to the particular data contained in the setting-out, (4) the
construction (κατασκευη {kataskeuê}), (5) the proof (αποδειξις {apodeixis}), (6) the conclusion
(συμπερασμα {symperasma}). In the case of a problem it often happens that a solution is not
possible unless the particular data are such as to satisfy certain conditions; in this case
there is yet another constituent part in the proposition, namely the statement of the conditions
or limits of possibility, which was called by the same name διορισμος {diorismos}, definition
or delimitation, as that applied to the third constituent part of a theorem.

We have so far endeavoured to indicate generally the finality and the abiding value of the
work done by the creators of mathematical science. It remains to summarize, as briefly as possible,
the history of Greek mathematics according to periods and subjects.

The Greeks of course took what they could in the shape of elementary facts in geometry and
astronomy from the Egyptians and Babylonians. But some of the essential characteristics of
the Greek genius assert themselves even in their borrowings from these or other sources. Here,
as everywhere else, we see their directness and concentration; they always knew what they wanted,
and they had an unerring instinct for taking only what was worth having and rejecting the rest.
This is illustrated by the story of Pythagoras's travels. He consorted with priests and prophets
and was initiated into the religious rites practised in different places, not out of religious
enthusiasm 'as you might think' (says our informant), but in order that he might not overlook
any fragment of knowledge worth acquiring that might lie hidden in the mysteries of divine worship.

This story also illustrates an important advantage which the Greeks had over the Egyptians
and Babylonians. In those countries science, such as it was, was the monopoly of the priests;
and, where this is the case, the first steps in science are apt to prove the last also, because
the scientific results attained tend to become involved in religious prescriptions and routine
observances, and so to end in a collection of lifeless formulae. Fortunately for the Greeks,
they had no organized priesthood; untrammelled by prescription, traditional dogmas or superstition,
they could give their reasoning faculties free play. Thus they were able to create science
as a living thing susceptible of development without limit.

Greek geometry, as also Greek astronomy, begins with Thales (about 624-547 B. C.), who travelled
in Egypt and is said to have brought geometry from thence. Such geometry as there was in Egypt
arose out of practical needs. Revenue was raised by the taxation of landed property, and its
assessment depended on the accurate fixing of the boundaries of the various holdings. When
these were removed by the periodical flooding due to the rising of the Nile, it was necessary
to replace them, or to determine the taxable area independently of them, by an art of land-surveying.
We conclude from the Papyrus Rhind (say 1700 B. C.) and other documents that Egyptian geometry
consisted mainly of practical rules for measuring, with more or less accuracy, (1) such areas
as squares, triangles, trapezia, and circles, (2) the solid content of measures of corn, &c.,
of different shapes. The Egyptians also constructed pyramids of a certain slope by means of
arithmetical calculations based on a certain ratio, se-qeṭ, namely the ratio of half the side
of the base to the height, which is in fact equivalent to the co-tangent of the angle of slope.
The use of this ratio implies the notion of similarity of figures, especially triangles. The
Egyptians knew, too, that a triangle with its sides in the ratio of the numbers 3, 4, 5 is
right-angled, and used the fact as a means of drawing right angles. But there is no sign that
they knew the general property of a right-angled triangle (= Eucl. I. 47), of which this is
a particular case, or that they proved any general theorem in geometry.

No doubt Thales, when he was in Egypt, would see diagrams drawn to illustrate the rules for
the measurement of circles and other plane figures, and these diagrams would suggest to him
certain similarities and congruences which would set him thinking whether there were not some
elementary general principles underlying the construction and relations of different figures
and parts of figures. This would be in accord with the Greek instinct for generalization and
their wish to be able to account for everything on rational principles.

The following theorems are attributed to Thales: (1) that a circle is bisected by any diameter
(Eucl. I, Def. 17), (2) that the angles at the base of an isosceles triangle are equal (Eucl.
I. 5), (3) that, if two straight lines cut one another, the vertically opposite angles are
equal (Eucl. I. 15), (4) that, if two triangles have two angles and one side respectively equal,
the triangles are equal in all respects (Eucl. I. 26). He is said (5) to have been the first
to inscribe a right-angled triangle in a circle, which must mean that he was the first to discover
that the angle in a semicircle is a right angle (cf. Eucl. III. 31).

Elementary as these things are, they represent a new departure of a momentous kind, being the
first steps towards a theory of geometry. On this point we cannot do better than quote some
remarks from Kant's preface to the second edition of his Kritik der reinen Vernunft.

'Mathematics has, from the earliest times to which the history of human reason goes back, (that
is to say) with that wonderful people the Greeks, travelled the safe road of a science. But
it must not be supposed that it was as easy for mathematics as it was for logic, where reason
is concerned with itself alone, to find, or rather to build for itself, that royal road. I
believe on the contrary that with mathematics it remained for long a case of groping about--the
Egyptians in particular were still at that stage--and that this transformation must be ascribed
to a revolution brought about by the happy inspiration of one man in trying an experiment,
from which point onward the road that must be taken could no longer be missed, and the safe
way of a science was struck and traced out for all time and to distances illimitable.... A
light broke on the first man who demonstrated the property of the isosceles triangle (whether
his name was Thales or what you will)....'

Thales also solved two problems of a practical kind: (1) he showed how to measure the distance
of a ship at sea, and (2) he found the heights of pyramids by means of the shadows thrown on
the ground by the pyramid and by a stick of known length at the same moment; one account says
that he chose the time when the lengths of the stick and of its shadow were equal, but in either
case he argued by similarity of triangles.

In astronomy Thales predicted a solar eclipse which was probably that of the 28th May 585 B.
C. Now the Babylonians, as the result of observations continued through centuries, had discovered
the period of 223 lunations after which eclipses recur. It is most likely therefore that Thales
had heard of this period, and that his prediction was based upon it. He is further said to
have used the Little Bear for finding the pole, to have discovered the inequality of the four
astronomical seasons, and to have written works On the Equinox and On the Solstice.

After Thales come the Pythagoreans. Of the Pythagoreans Aristotle says that they applied themselves
to the study of mathematics and were the first to advance that science, going so far as to
find in the principles of mathematics the principles of all existing things. Of Pythagoras
himself we are told that he attached supreme importance to the study of arithmetic, advancing
it and taking it out of the region of practical utility, and again that he transformed the
study of geometry into a liberal education, examining the principles of the science from the
beginning.

The very word μαθηματα {mathêmata}, which originally meant 'subjects of instruction' generally,
is said to have been first appropriated to mathematics by the Pythagoreans.

In saying that arithmetic began with Pythagoras we have to distinguish between the uses of
that word then and now. Αριθμητικη {Arithmêtikê} with the Greeks was distinguished from λογιστικη
{logistikê}, the science of calculation. It is the latter word which would cover arithmetic
in our sense, or practical calculation; the term αριθμητικη {arithmêtikê} was restricted to
the science of numbers considered in themselves, or, as we should say, the Theory of Numbers.
Another way of putting the distinction was to say that αριθμητικη {arithmêtikê} dealt with
absolute numbers or numbers in the abstract, and λογιστικη {logistikê} with numbered things
or concrete numbers; thus λογιστικη {logistikê} included simple problems about numbers of apples,
bowls, or objects generally, such as are found in the Greek Anthology and sometimes involve
simple algebraical equations.

The Theory of Numbers then began with Pythagoras (about 572-497 B. C.). It included definitions
of the unit and of number, and the classification and definitions of the various classes of
numbers, odd, even, prime, composite, and sub-divisions of these such as odd-even, even-times-even,
&c. Again there were figured numbers, namely, triangular numbers, squares, oblong numbers,
polygonal numbers (pentagons, hexagons, &c.) corresponding respectively to plane figures, and
pyramidal numbers, cubes, parallelepipeds, &c., corresponding to solid figures in geometry.
The treatment was mostly geometrical, the numbers being represented by dots filling up geometrical
figures of the various kinds. The laws of formation of the various figured numbers were established.
In this investigation the gnomon played an important part. Originally meaning the upright needle
of a sun-dial, the term was next used for a figure like a carpenter's square, and then was
applied to a figure of that shape put round two sides of a square and making up a larger square.
The arithmetical application of the term was similar. If we represent a unit by one dot and
put round it three dots in such a way that the four form the corners of a square, three is
the first gnomon. Five dots put at equal distances round two sides of the square containing
four dots make up the next square (3²), and five is the second gnomon. Generally, if we have
n² dots so arranged as to fill up a square with n for its side, the gnomon to be put round
it to make up the next square, (n+1)², has 2n+1 dots. In the formation of squares, therefore,
the successive gnomons are the series of odd numbers following 1 (the first square), namely
3, 5, 7, ... In the formation of oblong numbers (numbers of the form n(n+1)), the first of
which is 1. 2, the successive gnomons are the terms after 2 in the series of even numbers 2,
4, 6.... Triangular numbers are formed by adding to 1 (the first triangle) the terms after
1 in the series of natural numbers 1, 2, 3 ...; these are therefore the gnomons (by analogy)
for triangles. The gnomons for pentagonal numbers are the terms after 1 in the arithmetical
progression 1, 4, 7, 10 ... (with 3, or 5-2, as the common difference) and so on; the common
difference of the successive gnomons for an a-gonal number is a-2.

From the series of gnomons for squares we easily deduce a formula for finding square numbers
which are the sum of two squares. For, the gnomon 2n+1 being the difference between the successive
squares n² and (n+1)², we have only to make 2n+1 a square. Suppose that 2n+1=m²; therefore
n=½(m²-1), and {½(m²-1)}²+m²={½(m²+1)}², where m is any odd number. This is the formula actually
attributed to Pythagoras.

Pythagoras is said to have discovered the theory of proportionals or proportion. This was a
numerical theory and therefore was applicable to commensurable magnitudes only; it was no doubt
somewhat on the lines of Euclid, Book VII. Connected with the theory of proportion was that
of means, and Pythagoras was acquainted with three of these, the arithmetic, geometric, and
sub-contrary (afterwards called harmonic). In particular Pythagoras is said to have introduced
from Babylon into Greece the 'most perfect' proportion, namely:

a:(a+b)/2=2ab/(a+b):b,

where the second and third terms are respectively the arithmetic and harmonic mean between
a and b. A particular case is 12:9=8:6.

This bears upon what was probably Pythagoras's greatest discovery, namely that the musical
intervals correspond to certain arithmetical ratios between lengths of string at the same tension,
the octave corresponding to the ratio 2:1, the fifth to 3:2 and the fourth to 4:3. These ratios
being the same as those of 12 to 6, 8, 9 respectively, we can understand how the third term,
8, in the above proportion came to be called the 'harmonic' mean between 12 and 6.

The Pythagorean arithmetic as a whole, with the developments made after the time of Pythagoras
himself, is mainly known to us through Nicomachus's Introductio arithmetica, Iamblichus's commentary
on the same, and Theon of Smyrna's work Expositio rerum mathematicarum ad legendum Platonem
utilium. The things in these books most deserving of notice are the following.

First, there is the description of a 'perfect' number (a number which is equal to the sum of
all its parts, i.e. all its integral divisors including 1 but excluding the number itself),
with a statement of the property that all such numbers end in 6 or 8. Four such numbers, namely
6, 28, 496, 8128, were known to Nicomachus. The law of formation for such numbers is first
found in Eucl. IX. 36 proving that, if the sum (S{n}) of n terms of the series 1, 2, 2², 2³
... is prime, then S{n}.2^{n-1} is a perfect number.

Secondly, Theon of Smyrna gives the law of formation of the series of 'side-' and 'diameter-'
numbers which satisfy the equations 2x²-y²=±1. The law depends on the proposition proved in
Eucl. II. 10 to the effect that (2x+y)²-2(x+y)²=2x²-y², whence it follows that, if x, y satisfy
either of the above equations, then 2x+y, x+y is a solution in higher numbers of the other
equation. The successive solutions give values for y/x, namely 1/1, 3/2, 7/5, 17/12, 41/29,
..., which are successive approximations to the value of √2 (the ratio of the diagonal of a
square to its side). The occasion for this method of approximation to √2 (which can be carried
as far as we please) was the discovery by the Pythagoreans of the incommensurable or irrational
in this particular case.

Thirdly, Iamblichus mentions a discovery by Thymaridas, a Pythagorean not later than Plato's
time, called the επανθημα {epanthêma} ('bloom') of Thymaridas, and amounting to the solution
of any number of simultaneous equations of the following form:

x+x₁+x₂+ ... +x{n-1} = s,
    x+x₁ = a₁,
    x+x₂ = a₂,
         ...
x+x{n-1} = a{n-1},

the solution being x=((a₁+a₂+ ... +a{n-1})-s)/(n-2).

The rule is stated in general terms, but the above representation of its effect shows that
it is a piece of pure algebra.

The Pythagorean contributions to geometry were even more remarkable. The most famous proposition
attributed to Pythagoras himself is of course the theorem of Eucl. But Proclus also attributes
to him, besides the theory of proportionals, the construction of the 'cosmic figures', the
five regular solids.

One of the said solids, the dodecahedron, has twelve regular pentagons for faces, and the construction
of a regular pentagon involves the cutting of a straight line 'in extreme and mean ratio' (Eucl.
II. 11 and VI. 30), which is a particular case of the method known as the application of areas.
This method was fully worked out by the Pythagoreans and proved one of the most powerful in
all Greek geometry. The most elementary case appears in Eucl. I. 44, 45, where it is shown
how to apply to a given straight line as base a parallelogram with one angle equal to a given
angle and equal in area to any given rectilineal figure; this construction is the geometrical
equivalent of arithmetical division. The general case is that in which the parallelogram, though
applied to the straight line, overlaps it or falls short of it in such a way that the part
of the parallelogram which extends beyond or falls short of the parallelogram of the same angle
and breadth on the given straight line itself (exactly) as base is similar to any given parallelogram
(Eucl. VI. 28, 29). This is the geometrical equivalent of the solution of the most general
form of quadratic equation ax±mx²=C, so far as it has real roots; the condition that the roots
may be real was also worked out (=Eucl. VI. 27). It is in the form of 'application of areas'
that Apollonius obtains the fundamental property of each of the conic sections, and, as we
shall see, it is from the terminology of application of areas that Apollonius took the three
names parabola, hyperbola, and ellipse which he was the first to give to the three curves.

Another problem solved by the Pythagoreans was that of drawing a rectilineal figure which shall
be equal in area to one given rectilineal figure and similar to another. Plutarch mentions
a doubt whether it was this problem or the theorem of Eucl. I. 47 on the strength of which
Pythagoras was said to have sacrificed an ox.

The main particular applications of the theorem of the square on the hypotenuse, e. g. those
in Euclid, Book II, were also Pythagorean; the construction of a square equal to a given rectangle
(Eucl. II. 14) is one of them, and corresponds to the solution of the pure quadratic equation
x²=ab.

The Pythagoreans knew the properties of parallels and proved the theorem that the sum of the
three angles of any triangle is equal to two right angles.

As we have seen, the Pythagorean theory of proportion, being numerical, was inadequate in that
it did not apply to incommensurable magnitudes; but, with this qualification, we may say that
the Pythagorean geometry covered the bulk of the subject-matter of Books I, II, IV and VI of
Euclid's Elements. The case is less clear with regard to Book III of the Elements; but, as
the main propositions of that Book were known to Hippocrates of Chios in the second half of
the fifth century B. C., we conclude that they, too, were part of the Pythagorean geometry.

Lastly, the Pythagoreans discovered the existence of the incommensurable or irrational in the
particular case of the diagonal of a square in relation to its side. Aristotle mentions an
ancient proof of the incommensurability of the diagonal with the side by a reductio ad absurdum
showing that, if the diagonal were commensurable with the side, it would follow that one and
the same number is both odd and even. This proof was doubtless Pythagorean.

A word should be added about the Pythagorean astronomy. Pythagoras was the first to hold that
the earth (and no doubt each of the other heavenly bodies also) is spherical in shape, and
he was aware that the sun, moon and planets have independent movements of their own in a sense
opposite to that of the daily rotation; but he seems to have kept the earth in the centre.
His successors in the school (one Hicetas of Syracuse and Philolaus are alternatively credited
with this innovation) actually abandoned the geocentric idea and made the earth, like the sun,
the moon, and the other planets, revolve in a circle round the 'central fire', in which resided
the governing principle ordering and directing the movement of the universe.

The geometry of which we have so far spoken belongs to the Elements. But, before the body of
the Elements was complete, the Greeks had advanced beyond the Elements. By the second half
of the fifth century B. C. they had investigated three famous problems in higher geometry,
(1) the squaring of the circle, (2) the trisection of any angle, (3) the duplication of the
cube. The great names belonging to this period are Hippias of Elis, Hippocrates of Chios, and
Democritus.

Hippias of Elis invented a certain curve described by combining two uniform movements (one
angular and the other rectilinear) taking the same time to complete. Hippias himself used his
curve for the trisection of any angle or the division of it in any ratio; but it was afterwards
employed by Dinostratus, a brother of Eudoxus's pupil Menaechmus, and by Nicomedes for squaring
the circle, whence it got the name τετραγωνιζουσα {tetragônizousa}, quadratrix.

Hippocrates of Chios is mentioned by Aristotle as an instance to prove that a man may be a
distinguished geometer and, at the same time, a fool in the ordinary affairs of life. He occupies
an important place both in elementary geometry and in relation to two of the higher problems
above mentioned. He was, so far as is known, the first compiler of a book of Elements; and
he was the first to prove the important theorem of Eucl. XII. 2 that circles are to one another
as the squares on their diameters, from which he further deduced that similar segments of circles
are to one another as the squares on their bases. These propositions were used by him in his
tract on the squaring of lunes, which was intended to lead up to the squaring of the circle.
The essential portions of the tract are preserved in a passage of Simplicius's commentary on
Aristotle's Physics, which contains substantial extracts from Eudemus's lost History of Geometry.
Hippocrates showed how to square three particular lunes of different kinds and then, lastly,
he squared the sum of a circle and a certain lune. Unfortunately the last-mentioned lune was
not one of those which can be squared, so that the attempt to square the circle in this way
failed after all.

Hippocrates also attacked the problem of doubling the cube. There are two versions of the origin
of this famous problem. According to one story an old tragic poet had represented Minos as
having been dissatisfied with the size of a cubical tomb erected for his son Glaucus and having
told the architect to make it double the size while retaining the cubical form. The other story
says that the Delians, suffering from a pestilence, consulted the oracle and were told to double
a certain altar as a means of staying the plague. Hippocrates did not indeed solve the problem
of duplication, but reduced it to another, namely that of finding two mean proportionals in
continued proportion between two given straight lines; and the problem was ever afterwards
attacked in this form. If x, y be the two required mean proportionals between two straight
lines a, b, then a:x=x:y=y:b, whence b/a=(x/a)³, and, as a particular case, if b=2a, x³=2a³,
so that, when x is found, the cube is doubled.

Democritus wrote a large number of mathematical treatises, the titles only of which are preserved.
We gather from one of these titles, 'On irrational lines and solids', that he wrote on irrationals.
Democritus realized as fully as Zeno, and expressed with no less piquancy, the difficulty connected
with the continuous and the infinitesimal. This appears from his dilemma about the circular
base of a cone and a parallel section; the section which he means is a section 'indefinitely
near' (as the phrase is) to the base, i. e. the very next section, as we might say (if there
were one). Is it, said Democritus, equal or not equal to the base? If it is equal, so will
the very next section to it be, and so on, so that the cone will really be, not a cone, but
a cylinder. If it is unequal to the base and in fact less, the surface of the cone will be
jagged, like steps, which is very absurd. We may be sure that Democritus's work on 'The contact
of a circle or a sphere' discussed a like difficulty.

Lastly, Archimedes tells us that Democritus was the first to state, though he could not give
a rigorous proof, that the volume of a cone or a pyramid is one-third of that of the cylinder
or prism respectively on the same base and having equal height, theorems first proved by Eudoxus.

We come now to the time of Plato, and here the great names are Archytas, Theodoras of Cyrene,
Theaetetus, and Eudoxus.

Archytas (about 430-360 B. C.) wrote on music and the numerical ratios corresponding to the
intervals of the tetrachord. He is said to have been the first to write a treatise on mechanics
based on mathematical principles; on the practical side he invented a mechanical dove which
would fly. In geometry he gave the first solution of the problem of the two mean proportionals,
using a wonderful construction in three dimensions which determined a certain point as the
intersection of three surfaces, (1) a certain cone, (2) a half-cylinder, (3) an anchor-ring
or tore with inner diameter nil.

Theodorus, Plato's teacher in mathematics, extended the theory of the irrational by proving
incommensurability in certain particular cases other than that of the diagonal of a square
in relation to its side, which was already known. He proved that the side of a square containing
3 square feet, or 5 square feet, or any non-square number of square feet up to 17 is incommensurable
with one foot, in other words that √3, √5 ... √17 are all incommensurable with 1. Theodorus's
proof was evidently not general; and it was reserved for Theaetetus to comprehend all these
irrationals in one definition, and to prove the property generally as it is proved in Eucl.
X. 9. Much of the content of the rest of Euclid's Book X (dealing with compound irrationals),
as also of Book XIII on the five regular solids, was due to Theaetetus, who is even said to
have discovered two of those solids (the octahedron and icosahedron).

Plato (427-347 B. C.) was probably not an original mathematician, but he 'caused mathematics
in general and geometry in particular to make a great advance by reason of his enthusiasm for
them'. He encouraged the members of his school to specialize in mathematics and astronomy;
e. g. we are told that in astronomy he set it as a problem to all earnest students to find
'what are the uniform and ordered movements by the assumption of which the apparent motions
of the planets may be accounted for'. In Plato's own writings are found certain definitions,
e. g. that of a straight line as 'that of which the middle covers the ends', and some interesting
mathematical illustrations, especially that in the second geometrical passage in the Meno (86E-87C).
To Plato himself are attributed (1) a formula (n²-1)²+(2n)²=(n²+1)² for finding two square
numbers the sum of which is a square number, (2) the invention of the method of analysis, which
he is said to have explained to Leodamas of Thasos (mathematical analysis was, however, certainly,
in practice, employed long before). The solution, attributed to Plato, of the problem of the
two mean proportionals by means of a frame resembling that which a shoemaker uses to measure
a foot, can hardly be his.

Eudoxus (408-355 B. C.), an original genius second to none (unless it be Archimedes) in the
history of our subject, made two discoveries of supreme importance for the further development
of Greek geometry.

(1) As we have seen, the discovery of the incommensurable rendered inadequate the Pythagorean
theory of proportion, which applied to commensurable magnitudes only. It would no doubt be
possible, in most cases, to replace proofs depending on proportions by others; but this involved
great inconvenience, and a slur was cast on geometry generally. The trouble was remedied once
for all by Eudoxus's discovery of the great theory of proportion, applicable to commensurable
and incommensurable magnitudes alike, which is expounded in Euclid's Book V. Well might Barrow
say of this theory that 'there is nothing in the whole body of the elements of a more subtile
invention, nothing more solidly established'. The keystone of the structure is the definition
of equal ratios (Eucl. V, Def. 5); and twenty-three centuries have not abated a jot from its
value, as is plain from the facts that Weierstrass repeats it word for word as his definition
of equal numbers, and it corresponds almost to the point of coincidence with the modern treatment
of irrationals due to Dedekind.

(2) Eudoxus discovered the method of exhaustion for measuring curvilinear areas and solids,
to which, with the extensions given to it by Archimedes, Greek geometry owes its greatest triumphs.
Antiphon the Sophist, in connexion with attempts to square the circle, had asserted that, if
we inscribe successive regular polygons in a circle, continually doubling the number of sides,
we shall sometime arrive at a polygon the sides of which will coincide with the circumference
of the circle. Warned by the unanswerable arguments of Zeno against infinitesimals, mathematicians
substituted for this the statement that, by continuing the construction, we can inscribe a
polygon approaching equality with the circle as nearly as we please. The method of exhaustion
used, for the purpose of proof by reductio ad absurdum, the lemma proved in Eucl. X. 1 (to
the effect that, if from any magnitude we subtract not less than half, and then from the remainder
not less than half, and so on continually, there will sometime be left a magnitude less than
any assigned magnitude of the same kind, however small): and this again depends on an assumption
which is practically contained in Eucl. V, Def. 4, but is generally known as the Axiom of Archimedes,
stating that, if we have two unequal magnitudes, their difference (however small) can, if continually
added to itself, be made to exceed any magnitude of the same kind (however great).

The method of exhaustion is seen in operation in Eucl. XII. 1-2, 3-7 Cor., 10, 16-18. Props.
3-7 Cor. and Prop. 10 prove that the volumes of a pyramid and a cone are one-third of the prism
and cylinder respectively on the same base and of equal height; and Archimedes expressly says
that these facts were first proved by Eudoxus.

In astronomy Eudoxus is famous for the beautiful theory of concentric spheres which he invented
to explain the apparent motions of the planets and, particularly, their apparent stationary
points and retrogradations. The theory applied also to the sun and moon, for each of which
Eudoxus employed three spheres. He represented the motion of each planet as produced by the
rotations of four spheres concentric with the earth, one within the other, and connected in
the following way. Each of the inner spheres revolves about a diameter the ends of which (poles)
are fixed on the next sphere enclosing it. The outermost sphere represents the daily rotation,
the second a motion along the zodiac circle; the poles of the third sphere are fixed on the
latter circle; the poles of the fourth sphere (carrying the planet fixed on its equator) are
so fixed on the third sphere, and the speeds and directions of rotation so arranged, that the
planet describes on the second sphere a curve called the hippopede (horse-fetter), or a figure
of eight, lying along and longitudinally bisected by the zodiac circle. The whole arrangement
is a marvel of geometrical ingenuity.

Heraclides of Pontus (about 388-315 B. C.), a pupil of Plato, made a great step forward in
astronomy by his declaration that the earth rotates on its own axis once in 24 hours, and by
his discovery that Mercury and Venus revolve about the sun like satellites.

Menaechmus, a pupil of Eudoxus, was the discoverer of the conic sections, two of which, the
parabola and the hyperbola, he used for solving the problem of the two mean proportionals.
If a:x=x:y=y:b, then x²=ay, y²=bx and xy=ab. These equations represent, in Cartesian co-ordinates,
and with rectangular axes, the conics by the intersection of which two and two Menaechmus solved
the problem; in the case of the rectangular hyperbola it was the asymptote-property which he used.

We pass to Euclid's times. A little older than Euclid, Autolycus of Pitane wrote two books,
On the Moving Sphere, a work on Sphaeric for use in astronomy, and On Risings and Settings.
The former work is the earliest Greek textbook which has reached us intact. It was before Euclid
when he wrote his Phaenomena, and there are many points of contact between the two books.

Euclid flourished about 300 B. C. or a little earlier. His great work, the Elements in thirteen
Books, is too well known to need description. No work presumably, except the Bible, has had
such a reign; and future generations will come back to it again and again as they tire of the
variegated substitutes for it and the confusion resulting from their bewildering multiplicity.
After what has been said above of the growth of the Elements, we can appreciate the remark
of Proclus about Euclid, 'who put together the Elements, collecting many of Eudoxus's theorems,
perfecting many of Theaetetus's and also bringing to irrefragable demonstration the things
which were only somewhat loosely proved by his predecessors'. Though a large portion of the
subject-matter had been investigated by those predecessors, everything goes to show that the
whole arrangement was Euclid's own; it is certain that he made great changes in the order of
propositions and in the proofs, and that his innovations began at the very beginning of Book I.

Euclid wrote other books on both elementary and higher geometry, and on the other mathematical
subjects known in his day. The elementary geometrical works include the Data and On Divisions
(of figures), the first of which survives in Greek and the second in Arabic only; also the
Pseudaria, now lost, which was a sort of guide to fallacies in geometrical reasoning. The treatises
on higher geometry are all lost; they include (1) the Conics in four Books, which covered almost
the same ground as the first three Books of Apollonius's Conics, although no doubt, for Euclid,
the conics were still, as with his predecessors, sections of a right-angled, an obtuse-angled,
and an acute-angled cone respectively made by a plane perpendiular to a generator in each case;
(2) the Porisms in three Books, the importance and difficulty of which can be inferred from
Pappus's account of it and the lemmas which he gives for use with it; (3) the Surface-Loci,
to which again Pappus furnishes lemmas; one of these implies that Euclid assumed as known the
focus-directrix property of the three conics, which is absent from Apollonius's Conics.

In applied mathematics Euclid wrote (1) the Phaenomena, a work on spherical astronomy in which
ὁ ὁριζων {ho horizôn} (without κυκλος {kyklos} or any qualifying words) appears for the first
time in the sense of horizon; (2) the Optics, a kind of elementary treatise on perspective:
these two treatises are extant in Greek; (3) a work on the Elements of Music. The Sectio Canonis,
which has come down under the name of Euclid, can, however, hardly be his in its present form.

In the period between Euclid and Archimedes comes Aristarchus of Samos (about 310-230 B. C.),
famous for having anticipated Copernicus. Accepting Heraclides's view that the earth rotates
about its own axis, Aristarchus went further and put forward the hypothesis that the sun itself
is at rest, and that the earth, as well as Mercury, Venus, and the other planets, revolve in
circles about the sun. We have this on the unquestionable authority of Archimedes, who was
only some twenty-five years later, and who must have seen the book containing the hypothesis
in question. We are told too that Cleanthes the Stoic thought that Aristarchus ought to be
indicted on the charge of impiety for setting the Hearth of the Universe in motion.

One work of Aristarchus, On the sizes and distances of the Sun and Moon, which is extant in
Greek, is highly interesting in itself, though it contains no word of the heliocentric hypothesis.
Thoroughly classical in form and style, it lays down certain hypotheses and then deduces therefrom,
by rigorous geometry, the sizes and distances of the sun and moon. If the hypotheses had been
exact, the results would have been correct too; but Aristarchus in fact assumed a certain angle
to be 87° which is really 89° 50', and the angle subtended at the centre of the earth by the
diameter of either the sun or the moon to be 2°, whereas we know from Archimedes that Aristarchus
himself discovered that the latter angle is only 1/2°. The effect of Aristarchus's geometry
is to find arithmetical limits to the values of what are really trigonometrical ratios of certain
small angles, namely

1/18 > sin 3° > 1/20, 1/45 > sin 1° > 1/60, 1 > cos 1° > 89/90.

The main results obtained are (1) that the diameter of the sun is between 18 and 20 times the
diameter of the moon, (2) that the diameter of the moon is between 2/45ths and 1/30th of the
distance of the centre of the moon from our eye, and (3) that the diameter of the sun is between
19/3rds and 43/6ths of the diameter of the earth. The book contains a good deal of arithmetical
calculation.

Archimedes was born about 287 B. C. and was killed at the sack of Syracuse by Marcellus's army
in 212 B. C. The stories about him are well known, how he said 'Give me a place to stand on,
and I will move the earth' (πα βω και κινω ταν γαν {pa bô kai kinô tan gan}); how, having thought
of the solution of the problem of the crown when in the bath, he ran home naked shouting ἑυρηκα,
ἑυρηκα {heurêka, heurêka}; and how, the capture of Syracuse having found him intent on a figure
drawn on the ground, he said to a Roman soldier who came up, 'Stand away, fellow, from my diagram.'
Of his work few people know more than that he invented a tubular screw which is still used
for pumping water, and that for a long time he foiled the attacks of the Romans on Syracuse
by the mechanical devices and engines which he used against them. But he thought meanly of
these things, and his real interest was in pure mathematical speculation; he caused to be engraved
on his tomb a representation of a cylinder circumscribing a sphere, with the ratio 3/2 which
the cylinder bears to the sphere: from which we infer that he regarded this as his greatest
discovery.

Archimedes's works are all original, and are perfect models of mathematical exposition; their
wide range will be seen from the list of those which survive: On the Sphere and Cylinder I,
II, Measurement of a Circle, On Conoids and Spheroids, On Spirals, On Plane Equilibriums I,
II, the Sandreckoner, Quadrature of the Parabola, On Floating Bodies I, II, and lastly the
Method (only discovered in 1906). The difficult Cattle-Problem is also attributed to him, and
a Liber Assumptorum which has reached us through the Arabic, but which cannot be his in its
present form, although some of the propositions in it (notably that about the 'Salinon', salt-cellar,
and others about circles inscribed in the αρβηλος {arbêlos}, shoemaker's knife) are quite likely
to be of Archimedean origin. Among lost works were the Catoptrica, On Sphere-making, and investigations
into polyhedra, including thirteen semi-regular solids, the discovery of which is attributed
by Pappus to Archimedes.

Speaking generally, the geometrical works are directed to the measurement of curvilinear areas
and volumes; and Archimedes employs a method which is a development of Eudoxus's method of
exhaustion. Eudoxus apparently approached the figure to be measured from below only, i. e.
by means of figures successively inscribed to it. Archimedes approaches it from both sides
by successively inscribing figures and circumscribing others also, thereby compressing them,
as it were, until they coincide as nearly as we please with the figure to be measured. In many
cases his procedure is, when the analytical equivalents are set down, seen to amount to real
integration; this is so with his investigation of the areas of a parabolic segment and a spiral,
the surface and volume of a sphere, and the volume of any segments of the conoids and spheroids.

The newly-discovered Method is especially interesting as showing how Archimedes originally
obtained his results; this was by a clever mechanical method of (theoretically) weighing infinitesimal
elements of the figure to be measured against elements of another figure the area or content
of which (as the case may be) is known; it amounts to an avoidance of integration. Archimedes,
however, would only admit that the mechanical method is useful for finding results; he did
not consider them proved until they were established geometrically.

In the Measurement of a Circle, after proving by exhaustion that the area of a circle is equal
to a right-angled triangle with the perpendicular sides equal respectively to the radius and
the circumference of the circle, Archimedes finds, by sheer calculation, upper and lower limits
to the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter (what we call π {p}). This he
does by inscribing and circumscribing regular polygons of 96 sides and calculating approximately
their respective perimeters. He begins by assuming as known certain approximate values for
√3, namely 1351/780 > √3 > 265/153, and his calculations involve approximating to the square
roots of several large numbers (up to seven digits). The text only gives the results, but it
is evident that the extraction of square roots presented no difficulty, notwithstanding the
comparative inconvenience of the alphabetic system of numerals. The result obtained is well
known, namely 3-1/7 > π {p} > 3-10/71.

The Plane Equilibriums is the first scientific treatise on the first principles of mechanics,
which are established by pure geometry. The most important result established in Book I is
the principle of the lever. This was known to Plato and Aristotle, but they had no real proof.
The Aristotelian Mechanics merely 'refers' the lever 'to the circle', asserting that the force
which acts at the greater distance from the fulcrum moves the system more easily because it
describes a greater circle. Archimedes also finds the centre of gravity of a parallelogram,
a triangle, a trapezium and finally (in Book II) of a parabolic segment and of a portion of
it cut off by a straight line parallel to the base.

The Sandreckoner is remarkable for the development in it of a system for expressing very large
numbers by orders and periods based on powers of myriad-myriads (10,000²). It also contains
the important reference to the heliocentric theory of the universe put forward by Aristarchus
of Samos in a book of 'hypotheses', as well as historical details of previous attempts to measure
the size of the earth and to give the sizes and distances of the sun and moon.

Lastly, Archimedes invented the whole science of hydrostatics. Beginning the treatise On Floating
Bodies with an assumption about uniform pressure in a fluid, he first proves that the surface
of a fluid at rest is a sphere with its centre at the centre of the earth. Other propositions
show that, if a solid floats in a fluid, the weight of the solid is equal to that of the fluid
displaced, and, if a solid heavier than a fluid is weighed in it, it will be lighter than its
true weight by the weight of the fluid displaced. Then, after a second assumption that bodies
which are forced upwards in a fluid are forced upwards along the perpendiculars to the surface
which pass through their centres of gravity, Archimedes deals with the position of rest and
stability of a segment of a sphere floating in a fluid with its base entirely above or entirely
below the surface. Book II is an extraordinary tour de force, investigating fully all the positions
of rest and stability of a right segment of a paraboloid floating in a fluid according (1)
to the relation between the axis of the solid and the parameter of the generating parabola,
and (2) to the specific gravity of the solid in relation to the fluid; the term 'specific gravity'
is not used, but the idea is fully expressed in other words.

Almost contemporary with Archimedes was Eratosthenes of Cyrene, to whom Archimedes dedicated
the Method; the preface to this work shows that Archimedes thought highly of his mathematical
ability. He was indeed recognized by his contemporaries as a man of great distinction in all
branches, though the names Beta and Pentathlos[4] applied to him indicate that he just fell
below the first rank in each subject. Ptolemy Euergetes appointed him to be tutor to his son
(Philopator), and he became librarian at Alexandria; he recognized his obligation to Ptolemy
by erecting a column with a graceful epigram. In this epigram he referred to the earlier solutions
of the problem of duplicating the cube or finding the two mean proportionals, and advocated
his own in preference, because it would give any number of means; on the column was fixed a
bronze representation of his appliance, a frame with right-angled triangles (or rectangles)
movable along two parallel grooves and over one another, together with a condensed proof. The
Platonicus of Eratosthenes evidently dealt with the fundamental notions of mathematics in connexion
with Plato's philosophy, and seems to have begun with the story of the origin of the duplication
problem.

    [4] This word primarily means an all-round athlete, a winner in all
    five of the sports constituting the πενταθλον {pentathlon}, namely
    jumping, discus-throwing, running, wrestling, and boxing (or
    javelin-throwing).

The most famous achievement of Eratosthenes was his measurement of the earth. Archimedes quotes
an earlier measurement which made the circumference of the earth 300,000 stades. Eratosthenes
improved upon this. He observed that at the summer solstice at Syene, at noon, the sun cast
no shadow, while at the same moment the upright gnomon at Alexandria cast a shadow corresponding
to an angle between the gnomon and the sun's rays of 1/50th of four right angles. The distance
between Syene and Alexandria being known to be 5,000 stades, this gave for the circumference
of the earth 250,000 stades, which Eratosthenes seems later, for some reason, to have changed
to 252,000 stades. On the most probable assumption as to the length of the stade used, the
252,000 stades give about 7,850 miles, only 50 miles less than the true polar diameter.

In the work On the Measurement of the Earth Eratosthenes is said to have discussed other astronomical
matters, the distance of the tropic and polar circles, the sizes and distances of the sun and
moon, total and partial eclipses, &c. Besides other works on astronomy and chronology, Eratosthenes
wrote a Geographica in three books, in which he first gave a history of geography up to date
and then passed on to mathematical geography, the spherical shape of the earth, &c., &c.

Apollonius of Perga was with justice called by his contemporaries the 'Great Geometer', on
the strength of his great treatise, the Conics. He is mentioned as a famous astronomer of the
reign of Ptolemy Euergetes (247-222 B. C.); and he dedicated the fourth and later Books of
the Conics to King Attalus I of Pergamum (241-197 B. C.).

The Conics, a colossal work, originally in eight Books, survives as to the first four Books
in Greek and as to three more in Arabic, the eighth being lost. From Apollonius's prefaces
we can judge of the relation of his work to Euclid's Conics, the content of which answered
to the first three Books of Apollonius. Although Euclid knew that an ellipse could be otherwise
produced, e. g. as an oblique section of a right cylinder, there is no doubt that he produced
all three conics from right cones like his predecessors. Apollonius, however, obtains them
in the most general way by cutting any oblique cone, and his original axes of reference, a
diameter and the tangent at its extremity, are in general oblique; the fundamental properties
are found with reference to these axes by 'application of areas', the three varieties of which,
application (παραβολη {parabolê}), application with an excess (ὑπερβολη {hyperbolê}) and application
with a deficiency (ελλειψις {elleipsis}), give the properties of the three curves respectively
and account for the names parabola, hyperbola, and ellipse, by which Apollonius called them
for the first time. The principal axes only appear, as a particular case, after it has been
shown that the curves have a like property when referred to any other diameter and the tangent
at its extremity, instead of those arising out of the original construction. The first four
Books constitute what Apollonius calls an elementary introduction; the remaining Books are
specialized investigations, the most important being Book V (on normals) and Book VII (mainly
on conjugate diameters). Normals are treated, not in connexion with tangents, but as minimum
or maximum straight lines drawn to the curves from different points or classes of points. Apollonius
discusses such questions as the number of normals that can be drawn from one point (according
to its position) and the construction of all such normals. Certain propositions of great difficulty
enable us to deduce quite easily the Cartesian equations to the evolutes of the three conics.

Several other works of Apollonius are described by Pappus as forming part of the 'Treasury
of Analysis'. All are lost except the Sectio Rationis in two Books, which survives in Arabic
and was published in a Latin translation by Halley in 1706. It deals with all possible cases
of the general problem 'given two straight lines either parallel or intersecting, and a fixed
point on each, to draw through any given point a straight line which shall cut off intercepts
from the two lines (measured from the fixed points) bearing a given ratio to one another'.
The lost treatise Sectio Spatii dealt similarly with the like problem in which the intercepts
cut off have to contain a given rectangle.

The other treatises included in Pappus's account are (1) On Determinate Section; (2) Contacts
or Tangencies, Book II of which is entirely devoted to the problem of drawing a circle to touch
three given circles (Apollonius's solution can, with the aid of Pappus's auxiliary propositions,
be satisfactorily restored); (3) Plane Loci, i. e. loci which are straight lines or circles;
(4) Νευσεις {Neuseis}, Inclinationes (the general problem called a νευσις {neusis} being to
insert between two lines, straight or curved, a straight line of given length verging to a
given point, i. e. so that, if produced, it passes through the point, Apollonius restricted
himself to cases which could be solved by 'plane' methods, i. e. by the straight line and circle
only).

Apollonius is also said to have written (5) a Comparison of the dodecahedron with the icosahedron
(inscribed in the same sphere), in which he proved that their surfaces are in the same ratio
as their volumes; (6) On the cochlias or cylindrical helix; (7) a 'General Treatise', which
apparently dealt with the fundamental assumptions, &c., of elementary geometry; (8) a work
on unordered irrationals, i. e. irrationals of more complicated form than those of Eucl. Book
X; (9) On the burning-mirror, dealing with spherical mirrors and probably with mirrors of parabolic
section also; (10) ωκυτοκιον {ôkytokion} ('quick delivery'). In the last-named work Apollonius
found an approximation to π {p} closer than that in Archimedes's Measurement of a Circle; and
possibly the book also contained Apollonius's exposition of his notation for large numbers
according to 'tetrads' (successive powers of the myriad).

In astronomy Apollonius is said to have made special researches regarding the moon, and to
have been called ε {e} (Epsilon) because the form of that letter is associated with the moon.
He was also a master of the theory of epicycles and eccentrics.

With Archimedes and Apollonius Greek geometry reached its culminating point; indeed, without
some more elastic notation and machinery such as algebra provides, geometry was practically
at the end of its resources. For some time, however, there were capable geometers who kept
up the tradition, filling in details, devising alternative solutions of problems, or discovering
new curves for use or investigation.

Nicomedes, probably intermediate in date between Eratosthenes and Apollonius, was the inventor
of the conchoid or cochloid, of which, according to Pappus, there were three varieties. Diocles
(about the end of the second century B. C.) is known as the discoverer of the cissoid which
was used for duplicating the cube. He also wrote a book περι πυρειων {peri pyreiôn}, On burning-mirrors,
which probably discussed, among other forms of mirror, surfaces of parabolic or elliptic section,
and used the focal properties of the two conics; it was in this work that Diocles gave an independent
and clever solution (by means of an ellipse and a rectangular hyperbola) of Archimedes's problem
of cutting a sphere into two segments in a given ratio. Dionysodorus gave a solution by means
of conics of the auxiliary cubic equation to which Archimedes reduced this problem; he also
found the solid content of a tore or anchor-ring.

Perseus is known as the discoverer and investigator of the spiric sections, i. e. certain sections
of the σπειρα {speira}, one variety of which is the tore. The spire is generated by the revolution
of a circle about a straight line in its plane, which straight line may either be external
to the circle (in which case the figure produced is the tore), or may cut or touch the circle.

Zenodorus was the author of a treatise on Isometric figures, the problem in which was to compare
the content of different figures, plane or solid, having equal contours or surfaces respectively.

Hypsicles (second half of second century B. C.) wrote what became known as 'Book XIV' of the
Elements containing supplementary propositions on the regular solids (partly drawn from Aristaeus
and Apollonius); he seems also to have written on polygonal numbers. A mediocre astronomical
work (Αναφορικος {Anaphorikos}) attributed to him is the first Greek book in which we find
the division of the zodiac circle into 360 parts or degrees.

Posidonius the Stoic (about 135-51 B. C.) wrote on geography and astronomy under the titles
On the Ocean and περι μετεωρων {peri meteôrôn}. He made a new but faulty calculation of the
circumference of the earth (240,000 stades). Per contra, in a separate tract on the size of
the sun (in refutation of the Epicurean view that it is as big as it looks), he made assumptions
(partly guesswork) which give for the diameter of the sun a figure of 3,000,000 stades (39-1/4
times the diameter of the earth), a result much nearer the truth than those obtained by Aristarchus,
Hipparchus, and Ptolemy. In elementary geometry Posidonius gave certain definitions (notably
of parallels, based on the idea of equidistance).

Geminus of Rhodes, a pupil of Posidonius, wrote (about 70 B. C.) an encyclopaedic work on the
classification and content of mathematics, including the history of each subject, from which
Proclus and others have preserved notable extracts. An-Nairīzī (an Arabian commentator on Euclid)
reproduces an attempt by one 'Aganis', who appears to be Geminus, to prove the parallel-postulate.

But from this time onwards the study of higher geometry (except sphaeric) seems to have languished,
until that admirable mathematician, Pappus, arose (towards the end of the third century A.
D.) to revive interest in the subject. From the way in which, in his great Collection, Pappus
thinks it necessary to describe in detail the contents of the classical works belonging to
the 'Treasury of Analysis' we gather that by his time many of them had been lost or forgotten,
and that he aimed at nothing less than re-establishing geometry at its former level. No one
could have been better qualified for the task. Presumably such interest as Pappus was able
to arouse soon flickered out; but his Collection remains, after the original works of the great
mathematicians, the most comprehensive and valuable of all our sources, being a handbook or
guide to Greek geometry and covering practically the whole field. Among the original things
in Pappus's Collection is an enunciation which amounts to an anticipation of what is known
as Guldin's Theorem.

It remains to speak of three subjects, trigonometry (represented by Hipparchus, Menelaus, and
Ptolemy), mensuration (in Heron of Alexandria), and algebra (Diophantus).

Although, in a sense, the beginnings of trigonometry go back to Archimedes (Measurement of
a Circle), Hipparchus was the first person who can be proved to have used trigonometry systematically.
Hipparchus, the greatest astronomer of antiquity, whose observations were made between 161
and 126 B. C., discovered the precession of the equinoxes, calculated the mean lunar month
at 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes, 2-1/2 seconds (which differs by less than a second from the
present accepted figure!), made more correct estimates of the sizes and distances of the sun
and moon, introduced great improvements in the instruments used for observations, and compiled
a catalogue of some 850 stars; he seems to have been the first to state the position of these
stars in terms of latitude and longitude (in relation to the ecliptic). He wrote a treatise
in twelve Books on Chords in a Circle, equivalent to a table of trigonometrical sines. For
calculating arcs in astronomy from other arcs given by means of tables he used propositions
in spherical trigonometry.

The Sphaerica of Theodosius of Bithynia (written, say, 20 B. C.) contains no trigonometry.
It is otherwise with the Sphaerica of Menelaus (fl. A. D. 100) extant in Arabic; Book I of
this work contains propositions about spherical triangles corresponding to the main propositions
of Euclid about plane triangles (e.g. congruence theorems and the proposition that in a spherical
triangle the three angles are together greater than two right angles), while Book III contains
genuine spherical trigonometry, consisting of 'Menelaus's Theorem' with reference to the sphere
and deductions therefrom.

Ptolemy's great work, the Syntaxis, written about A. D. 150 and originally called Μαθηματικη
συνταξις {Mathêmatikê syntaxis}, came to be known as Μεγαλη συνταξις {Megalê syntaxis}; the
Arabs made up from the superlative μεγιστος {megistos} the word al-Majisti which became Almagest.

Book I, containing the necessary preliminaries to the study of the Ptolemaic system, gives
a Table of Chords in a circle subtended by angles at the centre of ½° increasing by half-degrees
to 180°. The circle is divided into 360 μοιραι {moirai}, parts or degrees, and the diameter
into 120 parts (τμηματα {tmêmata}); the chords are given in terms of the latter with sexagesimal
fractions (e. g. the chord subtended by an angle of 120° is 103^{p} 53′ 23″). The Table of
Chords is equivalent to a table of the sines of the halves of the angles in the table, for,
if (crd. 2 α {a}) represents the chord subtended by an angle of 2 α {a} (crd. 2 α {a})/120
= sin α {a}. Ptolemy first gives the minimum number of geometrical propositions required for
the calculation of the chords. The first of these finds (crd. 36°) and (crd. 72°) from the
geometry of the inscribed pentagon and decagon; the second ('Ptolemy's Theorem' about a quadrilateral
in a circle) is equivalent to the formula for sin (θ-φ) {th-ph}, the third to that for sin
½ θ {th}. From (crd. 72°) and (crd. 60°) Ptolemy, by using these propositions successively,
deduces (crd. 1½°) and (crd. ¾°), from which he obtains (crd. 1°) by a clever interpolation.
To complete the table he only needs his fourth proposition, which is equivalent to the formula
for cos (θ+φ) {th+ph}.

Ptolemy wrote other minor astronomical works, most of which survive in Greek or Arabic, an
Optics in five Books (four Books almost complete were translated into Latin in the twelfth
century), and an attempted proof of the parallel-postulate which is reproduced by Proclus.

Heron of Alexandria (date uncertain; he may have lived as late as the third century A. D.)
was an almost encyclopaedic writer on mathematical and physical subjects. He aimed at practical
utility rather than theoretical completeness; hence, apart from the interesting collection
of Definitions which has come down under his name, and his commentary on Euclid which is represented
only by extracts in Proclus and an-Nairīzī, his geometry is mostly mensuration in the shape
of numerical examples worked out. As these could be indefinitely multiplied, there was a temptation
to add to them and to use Heron's name. However much of the separate works edited by Hultsch
(the Geometrica, Geodaesia, Stereometrica, Mensurae, Liber geëponicus) is genuine, we must
now regard as more authoritative the genuine Metrica discovered at Constantinople in 1896 and
edited by H. Schöne in 1903 (Teubner). Book I on the measurement of areas is specially interesting
for (1) its statement of the formula used by Heron for finding approximations to surds, (2)
the elegant geometrical proof of the formula for the area of a triangle Δ {D} = √{s (s-a) (s-b)
(s-c)}, a formula now known to be due to Archimedes, (3) an allusion to limits to the value
of π {p} found by Archimedes and more exact than the 3-1/7 and 3-10/71 obtained in the Measurement
of a Circle.

Book I of the Metrica calculates the areas of triangles, quadrilaterals, the regular polygons
up to the dodecagon (the areas even of the heptagon, enneagon, and hendecagon are approximately
evaluated), the circle and a segment of it, the ellipse, a parabolic segment, and the surfaces
of a cylinder, a right cone, a sphere and a segment thereof. Book II deals with the measurement
of solids, the cylinder, prisms, pyramids and cones and frusta thereof, the sphere and a segment
of it, the anchor-ring or tore, the five regular solids, and finally the two special solids
of Archimedes's Method; full use is made of all Archimedes's results. Book III is on the division
of figures. The plane portion is much on the lines of Euclid's Divisions (of figures). The
solids divided in given ratios are the sphere, the pyramid, the cone and a frustum thereof.
Incidentally Heron shows how he obtained an approximation to the cube root of a non-cube number
(100). Quadratic equations are solved by Heron by a regular rule not unlike our method, and
the Geometrica contains two interesting indeterminate problems.

Heron also wrote Pneumatica (where the reader will find such things as siphons, Heron's Fountain,
penny-in-the-slot machines, a fire-engine, a water-organ, and many arrangements employing the
force of steam), Automaton-making, Belopoeïca (on engines of war), Catoptrica, and Mechanics.
The Mechanics has been edited from the Arabic; it is (except for considerable fragments) lost
in Greek. It deals with the puzzle of 'Aristotle's Wheel', the parallelogram of velocities,
definitions of, and problems on, the centre of gravity, the distribution of weights between
several supports, the five mechanical powers, mechanics in daily life (queries and answers).
Pappus covers much the same ground in Book VIII of his Collection.

We come, lastly, to Algebra. Problems involving simple equations are found in the Papyrus Rhind,
in the Epanthema of Thymaridas already referred to, and in the arithmetical epigrams in the
Greek Anthology (Plato alludes to this class of problem in the Laws, 819 B, C); the Anthology
even includes two cases of indeterminate equations of the first degree. The Pythagoreans gave
general solutions in rational numbers of the equations x²+y²=z² and 2x²-y²=±1, which are indeterminate
equations of the second degree.

The first to make systematic use of symbols in algebraical work was Diophantus of Alexandria
(fl. about A. D. 250). He used (1) a sign for the unknown quantity, which he calls αριθμος
{arithmos}, and compendia for its powers up to the sixth; (2) a sign () with the effect of
our minus. The latter sign probably represents ΛΙ {LI}, an abbreviation for the root of the
word λειπειν {leipein} (to be wanting); the sign for αριθμος {arithmos} () is most likely an
abbreviation for the letters αρ {ar}; the compendia for the powers of the unknown are Δ^Υ {D^Y}
for δυναμις {dynamis}, the square, Κ^Υ {K^Y} for κυβος {kybos}, the cube, and so on. Diophantus
shows that he solved quadratic equations by rule, like Heron. His Arithmetica, of which six
books only (out of thirteen) survive, contains a certain number of problems leading to simple
equations, but is mostly devoted to indeterminate or semi-determinate analysis, mainly of the
second degree. The collection is extraordinarily varied, and the devices resorted to are highly
ingenious. The problems solved are such as the following (fractional as well as integral solutions
being admitted): 'Given a number, to find three others such that the sum of the three, or of
any pair of them, together with the given number is a square', 'To find four numbers such that
the square of the sum plus or minus any one of the numbers is a square', 'To find three numbers
such that the product of any two plus or minus the sum of the three is a square'. Diophantus
assumes as known certain theorems about numbers which are the sums of two and three squares
respectively, and other propositions in the Theory of Numbers. He also wrote a book On Polygonal
Numbers of which only a fragment survives.

With Pappus and Diophantus the list of original writers on mathematics comes to an end. After
them came the commentators whose names only can be mentioned here. Theon of Alexandria, the
editor of Euclid, lived towards the end of the fourth century A. D. To the fifth and sixth
centuries belong Proclus, Simplicius, and Eutocius, to whom we can never be grateful enough
for the precious fragments which they have preserved from works now lost, and particularly
the History of Geometry and the History of Astronomy by Aristotle's pupil Eudemus.

Such is the story of Greek mathematical science. If anything could enhance the marvel of it,
it would be the consideration of the shortness of the time (about 350 years) within which the
Greeks, starting from the very beginning, brought geometry to the point of performing operations
equivalent to the integral calculus and, in the realm of astronomy, actually anticipated Copernicus.

T. L. HEATH.

NATURAL SCIENCE

Aristotle

There is a little essay of Goethe's called, simply, Die Natur. It comes among those tracts
on Natural Science in which the poet and philosopher turned his restless mind to problems of
light and colour, of leaf and flower, of bony skull and kindred vertebra; and it sounds like
a prose-poem, a noble paean, eulogizing the love and glorifying the study of Nature. Some twenty-five
hundred years before, Anaximander had written a book with the same title, Concerning Nature,
περι φυσεως {peri physeôs}: but its subject was not the same. It was a variant of the old traditional
cosmogonies. It told of how in the beginning the earth was without form and void. It sought
to trace all things back to the Infinite, το απειρον {to apeiron}--to That which knows no bounds
of space or time but is before all worlds, and to whose bosom again all things, all worlds,
return. For Goethe Nature meant the beauty, the all but sensuous beauty of the world; for the
older philosopher it was the mystery of the Creative Spirit.

Than Nature, in Goethe's sense, no theme is more familiar to us, for whom many a poet tells
the story and many a lesser poet echoes the conceit; but if there be anywhere in Greek such
overt praise and worship of Nature's beauty, I cannot call it to mind. Yet in Latin the divini
gloria ruris is praised and Natura daedala rerum worshipped, as we are wont to praise and worship
them, for their own sweet sakes. It is one of the ways, one of the simpler ways, in which the
Roman world seems nearer to us than the Greek: and not only seems, but is so. For compared
with the great early civilizations, Rome is modern and of the West; while, draw her close as
we may to our hearts, Greece brings along with her a breath of the East and a whisper of remote
antiquity. A Tuscan gentleman of to-day, like a Roman gentleman of yesterday, is at heart a
husbandman, like Cato; he is ruris amator, like Horace; he gets him to his little farm or vineyard
(O rus, quando te aspiciam!), like Atticus or the younger Pliny. As Bacon praised his garden,
so does Pliny praise his farm, with its cornfields and meadowland, vineyard and woodland, orchard
and pasture, bee-hives and flowers. That God made the country and man made the town was (long
before Cowper) a saying of Varro's; but in Greek I can think of no such apophthegm.

As Schiller puts it, the Greeks looked on Nature with their minds more than with their hearts,
nor ever clung to her with outspoken admiration and affection. And Humboldt, asserting (as
I would do) that the portrayal of nature, for her own sake and in all her manifold diversity,
was foreign to the Greek idea, declares that the landscape is always the mere background of
their picture, while their foreground is filled with the affairs and actions and thoughts of
men. But all the while, as in some old Italian picture--of Domenichino or Albani or Leonardo
himself--the subordinated background is delicately traced and exquisitely beautiful; and sometimes
we come to value it in the end more than all the rest of the composition.

Deep down in the love of Nature, whether it be of the sensual or intellectual kind, and in
the art of observation which is its outcome and first expression, lie the roots of all our
Natural Science. All the world over these are the heritage of all men, though the inheritance
be richer or poorer here and there: they are shown forth in the lore and wisdom of hunter and
fisherman, of shepherd and husbandman, of artist and poet. The natural history of the ancients
is not enshrined in Aristotle and Pliny. It pervades the vast literature of classical antiquity.
For all we may say of the reticence with which, the Greeks proclaim it, it greets us nobly
in Homer, it sings to us in Anacreon, Sicilian shepherds tune their pipes to it in Theocritus:
and anon in Virgil we dream of it to the coo of doves and the sound of bees' industrious murmur.

Not only from such great names as these do we reach the letter and the spirit of ancient Natural
History. We must go a-wandering into the by-ways of literature. We must eke out the scientific
treatises of Aristotle and Pliny by help of the fragments which remain of the works of such
naturalists as Speusippus or Alexander the Myndian; add to the familiar stories of Herodotus
the Indian tales of Ctesias and Megasthenes; sit with Athenaeus and his friends at the supper
table, gleaning from cook and epicure, listening to the merry idle troop of convivial gentlemen
capping verses and spinning yarns; read Xenophon's treatise on Hunting, study the didactic
poems, the Cynegetica and Halieutica, of Oppian and of Ovid. And then again we may hark back
to the greater world of letters, wherein poet and scholar, from petty fabulist to the great
dramatists, from Homer's majesty to Lucian's wit, share in the love of Nature and enliven the
delicate background of their story with allusions to beast and bird.

Such allusions, refined at first by art and hallowed at last by familiar memory, lie treasured
in men's hearts and enshrine themselves in our noblest literature. Take, of a thousand crowding
instances, that great passage in the Iliad where the Greek host, disembarking on the plains
of the Scamander, is likened to a migrating flock of cranes or geese or long-necked swans,
as they fly proudly over the Asian meadows and alight screaming by Cayster's stream--and Virgil
echoes more than once the familiar lines. The crane was a well-known bird. Its lofty flight
brings it, again in Homer, to the very gates of heaven. Hesiod and Pindar speak of its far-off
cry, heard from above the clouds: and that it 'observed the time of its coming', 'intelligent
of seasons', was a proverb old in Hesiod's day--when the crane signalled the approach of winter,
and when it bade the husbandman make ready to plough. It follows the plough, in Theocritus,
as persistently as the wolf the kid and the peasant-lad his sweetheart. The discipline of the
migrating cranes, the serried wedge of their ranks in flight, the good order of the resting
flock, are often, and often fancifully, described. Aristotle records how they have an appointed
leader, who keeps watch by night and in flight keeps calling to the laggards; and all this
old story Euripides, the most naturalistic of the great tragedians, puts into verse:

    The ordered host of Libyan birds avoids
    The wintry storm, obedient to the call
    Of their old leader, piping to his flock.

But the natural history of the poets is a story without an end, and in our estimation, however
brief it be, of ancient knowledge, there are other matters to be considered, and other points
of view where we must take our stand.

When we consider the science of the Greeks, and come quickly to love it and slowly to see how
great it was, we likewise see that it was restricted as compared with our own, curiously partial
or particular in its limitations. The practical and 'useful' sciences of chemistry, mechanics,
and engineering, which in our modern world crowd the others to the wall, are absent altogether,
or so concealed that we forget and pass them by. Mathematics is enthroned high over all, as
it is meet she should be; and of uncontested right she occupies her throne century after century,
from Pythagoras to Proclus, from the scattered schools of early Hellenic civilization to the
rise and fall of the great Alexandrine University. Near beside her sits, from of old, the daughter-science
of Astronomy; and these twain were worshipped by the greatest scientific intellects of the
Greeks. But though we do not hear of them nor read of them, we must not suppose for a moment
that the practical or technical sciences were lacking in so rich and complex a civilization.
China, that most glorious of all living monuments of Antiquity, tells us nothing of her own
chemistry, but we know that it is there. Peep into a Chinese town, walk through its narrow
streets, thronged but quiet, wherein there is neither rumbling of coaches nor rattling of wheels,
and you shall see the nearest thing on earth to what we hear of Sybaris. To the production
of those glowing silks and delicate porcelains and fine metal-work has gone a vast store of
chemical knowledge, traditional and empirical. So was it, precisely, in ancient Greece; and
Plato knew that it was so--that the dyer, the perfumer, and the apothecary had subtle arts,
a subtle science of their own, a science not to be belittled nor despised. We may pass here
and there by diligent search from conjecture to assurance; analyse a pigment, an alloy or a
slag; discover from an older record than the Greeks', the chemical prescription wherewith an
Egyptian princess darkened her eyes, or study the pictured hearth, bellows, oven, crucibles
with which the followers of Tubal-Cain smelted their ore. Once in a way, but seldom, do we
meet with ancient chemistry even in Greek literature. There is a curious passage (its text
is faulty and the translation hard) in the story of the Argonauts, where Medea concocts a magic
brew. She put divers herbs in it, herbs yielding coloured juices such as safflower and alkanet,
and soapwort and fleawort to give consistency or 'body' to the lye; she put in alum and blue
vitriol (or sulphate of copper), and she put in blood. The magic brew was no more and no less
than a dye, a red or purple dye, and a prodigious deal of chemistry had gone to the making
of it. For the copper was there to produce a 'lake' or copper-salt of the vegetable alkaloids,
which copper-lakes are among the most brilliant and most permanent of colouring matters; the
alum was there as a 'mordant'; and even the blood was doubtless there incorporated for better
reasons than superstitious ones, in all probability for the purpose of clarifying (by means
of its coagulating albumen) the seething and turbid brew.

The 'Orphic' version of the story, in which this passage occurs, is probably an Alexandrine
compilation, and whether the ingredients of the brew had been part of the ancient legend or
were merely suggested to the poet by the knowledge of his own day we cannot tell; in either
case the prescription is old enough, and is at least pre-Byzantine by a few centuries. Such
as it is, it does not stand alone. Other fragments of ancient chemistry, more or less akin
to it, have been gathered together; in Galen's book on The making of Simples, in Pliny, in
Paulus Aegineta, and for that matter in certain Egyptian papyri (especially a certain very
famous one, still extant, of which Clement of Alexandria speaks as a secret or 'hermetic' book),
we can trace the broken and scattered stones of a great edifice of ancient chemistry.

Nevertheless, all this weight of chemical learning figures scantily in literature, and is conspicuously
absent from our conception of the natural genius of the Greeks. We have no reason to suppose
that ancient chemistry, or any part of it, was ever peculiarly Greek, or that this science
was the especial property of any nation whatsoever; moreover it was a trade, or a bundle of
trades, whose trade-secrets were too precious to be revealed, and so constituted not a science
but a mystery. So has it always been with chemistry, the most cosmopolitan of sciences, the
most secret of arts. Quietly and stealthily it crept through the world; the tinker brought
it with his solder and his flux; the African tribes who were the first workers in iron passed
it on to the great metallurgists who forged Damascan and Toledan steel.

This 'trade' of Chemistry was never a science for a Gentleman, as philosophy and mathematics
were; and Plato, greatest of philosophers, was one of the greatest of gentlemen. Long, long
afterwards, Oxford said the same thing to Robert Boyle--that Chemistry was no proper avocation
for a gentleman; but he thought otherwise, and the 'brother of the Earl of Cork' became the
Father of scientific Chemistry.

Now I take it that in regard to biology Aristotle did much the same thing as Boyle, breaking
through a similar tradition; and herein one of the greatest of his great services is to be
found. There was a wealth of natural history before his time; but it belonged to the farmer,
the huntsman, and the fisherman--with something over (doubtless) for the schoolboy, the idler,
and the poet. But Aristotle made it a science, and won a place for it in Philosophy. He did
for it just what Pythagoras had done (as Proclus tells us) for mathematics in an earlier age,
when he discerned the philosophy underlying the old empirical art of 'geometry', and made it
the basis of 'a liberal education'.[5]

    [5] επι δε τουτοις Πυθαγορας την περι αυτην φιλοσοφιαν εις σχημα
    παιδειας ελευθερου μετεστησεν. {epi de toutois Pythagoras tên peri
    autên philosophian eis schêma paideias eleutherou metestêsen.}
    Procli Comment. Euclidis lib. I, Prolegom. II (p. 65, ed.
    Friedlein).

The Mediterranean fisherman, like the Chinese fisherman or the Japanese, has still, and always
has had, a wide knowledge of all that pertains to and accompanies his craft. Our Scottish fishermen
have a limited vocabulary, which scarce extends beyond the names of the few common fishes with
which the market is supplied. But at Marseilles or Genoa or in the Levant they have names for
many hundreds of species, of fish and shell-fish and cuttle-fish and worms and corallines,
and all manner of swimming and creeping things; they know a vast deal about the habits of their
lives, far more, sometimes, than do we 'scientific men'; they are naturalists by tradition
and by trade. Neither, by the way, must we forget the ancient medical and anatomical learning
of the great Aesculapian guild, nor the still more recondite knowledge possessed by various
priesthoods (again like their brethren of to-day in China and Japan) of the several creatures,
sacred fish, pigeons, guinea-fowl, snakes, cuttlefish, and what not, which time out of mind
they had reared, tended, and venerated.

Of what new facts Aristotle actually discovered it is impossible to be sure. Could it ever
be proved that he discovered many, or could it even be shown that of his own hand he discovered
nothing at all, it would affect but little our estimate of his greatness and our admiration
of his learning. He was the first of Greek philosophers and gentlemen to see that all these
things were good to know and worthy to be told. This was his great discovery.

I have sought elsewhere to show that Aristotle spent two years, the happiest years perhaps
of all his life--a long honeymoon--by the sea-side in the island of Mytilene, after he had
married the little Princess, and before he began the hard work of his life: before he taught
Alexander in Macedon, and long before he spoke urbi et orbi in the Lyceum. Here it was that
he learned the great bulk of his natural history, in which, wide and general as it is, the
things of the sea have from first to last a notable predominance.

I have tried to illustrate elsewhere (as many another writer has done) something of the variety
and the depth of Aristotle's knowledge of animals--choosing an example here and there, but
only drawing a little water from an inexhaustible well.

A famous case is that of the 'molluscs', where either Aristotle's knowledge was exceptionally
minute, or where it has come down to us with unusual completeness.

These are the cuttle fish, which have now surrendered their Aristotelian name of 'molluscs'
to that greater group which is seen to include them, together with the shell-fish or 'ostracoderma'
of Aristotle. These cuttle-fishes are creatures that we seldom see, but in the Mediterranean
they are an article of food and many kinds are known to the fishermen. All or wellnigh all
of these many kinds were known to Aristotle. He described their form and their anatomy, their
habits, their development, all with such faithful accuracy that what we can add to-day seems
of secondary importance. He begins with a methodical description of the general form, tells
us of the body and fins, of the eight arms with their rows of suckers, of the abnormal position
of the head. He points out the two long arms of Sepia and of the calamaries, and their absence
in the octopus; and he tells us, what was only confirmed of late, that with these two long
arms the creature clings to the rock and sways about like a ship at anchor. He describes the
great eyes, the two big teeth forming the beak; and he dissects the whole structure of the
gut, with its long gullet, its round crop, its stomach and the little coiled coecal diverticulum:
dissecting not only one but several species, and noting differences that were not observed
again till Cuvier re-dissected them. He describes the funnel and its relation to the mantle-sac,
and the ink-bag, which he shows to be largest in Sepia of all others. And here, by the way,
he seems to make one of those apparent errors that, as it happens, turn out to be justified:
for he tells us that in Octopus, unlike the rest, the funnel is on the upper side; the fact
being that when the creature lies prone upon the ground, with all its arms outspread, the funnel-tube
(instead of being flattened out beneath the creature's prostrate body) is long enough to protrude
upwards between arms and head, and to appear on one side or other thereof, in a position apparently
the reverse of its natural one. He describes the character of the cuttle-bone in Sepia, and
of the horny pen which takes its place in the various calamaries, and notes the lack of any
similar structure in Octopus. He dissects in both sexes the reproductive organs, noting without
exception all their essential and complicated parts; and he had figured these in his lost volume
of anatomical diagrams. He describes the various kinds of eggs, and, with still more surprising
knowledge, shows us the little embryo cuttle-fish, with its great yolk-sac attached, in apparent
contrast to the chick's, to the little creature's developing head.

But there is one other remarkable feature that he knew ages before it was rediscovered, almost
in our own time. In certain male cuttle-fishes, in the breeding season, one of the arms develops
in a curious fashion into a long coiled whip-lash, and in the act of breeding may then be transferred
to the mantle-cavity of the female. Cuvier himself knew nothing of the nature or the function
of this separated arm, and indeed, if I am not mistaken, it was he who mistook it for a parasitic
worm. But Aristotle tells us of its use and its temporary development, and of its structure
in detail, and his description tallies closely with the accounts of the most recent writers.

A scarcely less minute account follows of the 'Malacostraca' or crustaceans, the lobsters and
the crabs, the shrimps and the prawns, and others of their kind, a chapter to which Cuvier
devoted a celebrated essay. There be many kinds of crabs--the common kind, the big 'granny'
crabs, the little horsemen-crabs, that scamper over the sand and which are for the most part
empty, that is to say, whose respiratory cavities are exceptionally large; and there are the
freshwater crabs. There are the little shrimps and the big hump-backed fellows, or prawns;
there are the 'crangons' or squillae; and the big lobsters and the crawfish or 'langoustes',
their spiny cousins. We read about their beady eyes, which turn every way; about their big
rough antennae and the smaller, smoother pair between; the great teeth, or mandibles; the carapace
with its projecting rostrum, the jointed abdomen with the tail-fins at the end, and the little
flaps below on which the female drops her spawn. In more or less detail these things are severally
described, and the many limbs severally enumerated, in one kind after another. The descriptions
of the lobster and the langouste are particularly minute, and the comparison or contrast between
the two is drawn with elaborate precision. In the former, besides other differences between
male and female, the female is said to have the 'first foot' (or leg) bifurcate, while in the
male it is undivided. It seems a trifling matter, but it is true; it is so small a point that
I searched long before at last I found mention made of it in a German monograph. The puzzling
thing is that it is (as we should say) the last and not the first leg which is so distinguished;
but after all, it is only a convention of our own to count the limbs from before backwards.
To inspect a lobster's limbs, we lay it on its back (as Aristotle did), and see the legs overlapping,
each hinder one above the one before; the hindmost is the first we see, and the one we must
first lift up to inspect the others.

Aristotle's account of fishes is a prodigious history of habits, food, migrations, modes of
capture, times and ways of spawning, and anatomical details; but it is not here that we can
elucidate or even illustrate this astonishing Ichthyology. It is not always easy to understand--but
the obstacle lies often, I take it, in our own ignorance. The identification of species is
not always plain, for here as elsewhere Aristotle did not reckon with a time or place where
the familiar words of Greek should be unknown or their homely significance forgotten. Among
the great host of fish-names there are several referring, somehow or other, to the Grey Mullet,
which puzzle both naturalist and lexicographer. A young officer told me the other day how he
had watched an Arab fisherman emptying out his creel of Grey Mullet on some Syrian beach, and
the Arab gave four if not five names to as many different kinds, betwixt which my friend could
see no difference whatsoever. Had my friend been an ichthyologist he would doubtless have noticed
that one had eyelids and the others none; that one had little brushes on its lips, another
a small but wide-open slit under the jaw, another a yellow spot on its gill-covers, and so
on. The Mullets are a difficult group, but Aristotle, like the Arab fisherman, evidently recognized
their fine distinctions and employed the appropriate names. Again, Aristotle speaks of a certain
nest-building fish, the 'phycis', and regarding this Cuvier fell into error (where once upon
a time I followed him). In Cuvier's time there was but one nest-building fish known such as
to suit, apparently, the passage, namely the little black goby; but after Cuvier's day the
nest-building habits of the 'wrasses' became known to naturalists, as they had doubtless been
known ages before to the fishermen--and to Aristotle.

Like almost every other little point on which we happen to touch, we might make this one the
starting-point (here comes in the delight and fascination of the interpreter's task!) for other
stories.

Speusippus, Plato's successor in the Academy, was both philosopher and naturalist, and we may
take it, if we please, that his leaning towards biology, and the biological trend which at
this time became more and more marked in Athenian philosophy, were not unconnected with the
great impulse which Aristotle had given. However this may be, Speusippus wrote a book περι
Ὁμοιων {peri Homoiôn} 'Concerning Resemblances'; and this, of which we only possess a few fragmentary
sentences, must have been a very curious and an interesting book. He mentions, among other
similar cases, that our little fish phycis has a close outward semblance to the sea-perch;
and this is enough to clinch the proof that Aristotle's nest-building fish was not a goby but
a wrasse. The whole purport of Speusippus's book seems to have been to discuss how, or why,
with all Nature's apparently infinite variety, certain animals have a singularly close resemblance
to certain others, though they be quite distinct in kind. It is a problem which perplexes us
still, when we are astonished and even deluded by the likeness between a wasp and a hover-fly,
a merlin and a cuckoo. In certain extreme cases we call it 'mimicry', and invoke hypotheses
to account for this 'mimetic' resemblance; and those of us who reject these hypotheses must
fain take refuge in others, as far-reaching in their way. This at least we know, that Speusippus
seized upon a real problem of biology, of lasting interest and even of fundamental importance.

To come back to Aristotle and his fishes, let us glance at one little point more. The reproduction
of the eel is an ancient puzzle, which has found its full solution only in our own day. While
the salmon, for instance, comes up the river to breed and goes down again to the sea, the eel
goes down to the ocean to spawn, and the old eels come back no more but perish in the great
waters. The eel's egg develops into a little flattened, transparent fish, altogether different
in outward appearance from an eel, which turns afterwards into a young eel or 'elver'; and
Professor Grassi, who had a big share in elucidating the whole matter, tells us the curious
fact that he found the Sicilian fishermen well acquainted with the little transparent larva
(the Leptocephalus of modern naturalists), that they knew well what it was, and that they had
a name for it--Casentula. Now Aristotle, in a passage which I think has been much misunderstood
(and which we must admit to be in part erroneous), tells us that the eel develops from what
he calls γης εντερα {gês entera}, a word which we translate, literally, the 'guts of the earth',
and which commentators interpret as 'earthworms'! But in Sicilian Doric, γης εντερα {gês entera}
would at once become γας εντερα {gas entera}; and between 'Gasentera' and the modern Sicilian
'Casentula' there is scarce a hairbreadth's difference. So we may be permitted to suppose that
here again Aristotle was singularly and accurately informed; and that he knew by sight and
name the little larva of the eel, whose discovery and identification is one of the modest triumphs
of recent investigation.

Aristotle's many pages on fishes are delightful reading. The anatomist may read of such recondite
matters as the placenta vitellina of the smooth dog-fish, whereby the viviparous embryo is
nourished within the womb, after a fashion analogous to that of mammalian embryology--a phenomenon
brought to light anew by Johannes Müller, and which excited him to enthusiastic admiration
of Aristotle's minute and faithful anatomy. Again we may read of the periodic migration of
the tunnies, of the great net or 'madrague' in which they are captured, and of the watchmen,
the θυννοσκοποι {thynnoskopoi}, the 'hooers' of our ancient Cornish fishery, who give warning
from tower or headland of the approaching shoal. The student may learn what manner of fish
it was (the great Eagle-ray) with whose barbed fin-spine--most primitive of spear-heads--Ulysses
was slain; and again, he may learn not a little about that ναρκη {narkê}, or torpedo, to which
Meno compared his master Socrates, in a somewhat ambiguous compliment.

In rambling fashion Aristotle has a deal to tell us about insects, and he has left us a sort
of treatise on the whole natural history of the bee. He knew the several inmates of the hive,
though like others of his day (save, perhaps, only Xenophon), and like Shakespeare too, he
took the queen-bee for a king. He describes the building of the comb, the laying of the eggs,
the provision of the larvae with food. He discusses the various qualities of honey and the
flowers from which these are drawn. He is learned in the diseases and the enemies of bees.
He tells us many curious things about the economy of the hive and the arts of the bee-keeper,
some of which things have a very modern and familiar look about them: for instance, the use
of a net or screen to keep out the drones, a net so nicely contrived that these sturdy fellows
are just kept out, while the leaner, slenderer workers are just let in. But it would be a long,
long story to tell of Aristotle's knowledge of the bee, and to compare it with what is, haply,
the still deeper skill and learning of that master of bee-craft, Virgil.

Then, having perfect freedom to go whithersoever we chose and to follow the bees across the
boundless fields of ancient literature, we might read of the wild bees and of their honey out
of a rock, and of the hive-bees too, in Homer; follow them to their first legendary home in
Crete, where the infant Jupiter was fed on honey--as a baby's lips are touched with it even
unto this day; trace their association with Proserpine and her mother, or their subtler connexion
with Ephesian Diana; find in the poets, from Hesiod to the later Anthology, a hundred sweet
references--to the bee-tree in the oak-wood, to the flowery hill Hymettus.

Go back to Aristotle, and we may listen to him again while he talks of many other kindred insects:
of the humble-bee and its kind, of the mason-bee with its hard round nest of clay, of the robber-bees,
and of the various wasps and hornets; or (still more curiously and unexpectedly) of the hunter-wasp
or 'ichneumon', and how it kills the spider, carries it home to its nest, and lays its eggs
in its poor body, that the little wasp-grubs may afterwards be fed. Or again of the great wasps
which he calls Anthrenae, and how they chase the big flies, and cut off their heads, and fly
away with the rest of the carcass--all agreeing to the very letter with what Henri Fabre tells
us of a certain large wasp of Southern Europe, and how it captures the big 'taons' or horse-flies:
'Pour donner le coup de grâce à leurs Taons mal sacrifiés, et se débattants encore entre les
pattes du ravisseur, j'ai vu des Bembex mâchonner la tête et le thorax des victimes.' Verily,
there is nothing new under the sun.

With the metamorphoses of various insects Aristotle was well acquainted. He knew how the house-fly
passes its early stages in a dung-hill, and how the grubs of the big horse-flies and Tabanids
live in decayed wood; how certain little flies or gnats are engendered (as he calls it) in
the slime of vinegar. He relates with great care and accuracy the life-history of the common
gnat, from its aquatic larva, the little red 'blood-worm' of our pools; he describes them wriggling
about like tiny bits of red weed, in the water of some half-empty well; and he explains, finally,
the change by which they become stiff and motionless and hard, until a husk breaks away and
the little gnat is seen sitting upon it; and by and by the sun's heat or a puff of wind starts
it off, and away it flies.

Some of these stories are indeed remarkable, for the events related are more or less hidden
and obscure; and so, with all this knowledge at hand, it is not a little strange that Aristotle
has very little indeed to tell us about the far more obvious phenomena of the life-history
of the butterfly, and of the several kinds of butterflies and moths. He does tell us briefly
that the butterfly comes from a caterpillar, which lives on cabbage-leaves and feeds voraciously,
then turns into a chrysalis and eats no more, nor has it a mouth to eat withal; it is hard
and, as it were, dead, but yet it moves and wriggles when you touch it, and after a while the
husk bursts and out comes the butterfly. The account is good enough, so far as it goes, but
nevertheless Aristotle shows no affection for the butterfly, does not linger and dally over
it, tells no stories about it. This is all of a piece with the rest of Greek literature, and
poetry in particular, where allusions to the butterfly are scanty and rare. I think the Greeks
found something ominous or uncanny, something not to be lightly spoken of, in that all but
disembodied spirit which we call a butterfly, and they called by the name of ψυχη {psychê},
the Soul. They had a curious name (νεκυδαλλος {nekydallos}) for the pupa. It sounds like a
'little corpse' (νεκυς {nekys}); and like a little corpse within its shroud or coffin the pupa
sleeps in its cocoon. A late poet describes the butterfly 'coming back from the grave to the
light of day'; and certain of the Fathers of the Church, St. Basil in particular, point the
moral accordingly, and draw a doubtless time-honoured allegory of the Resurrection and the
Life from the grub which is not dead but sleepeth, and the butterfly which (as it were) is
raised in glory.

Of one large moth, Aristotle gives us an account which has been a puzzle to many. This begins
as a great grub or caterpillar, with (as it were) horns; and, growing by easy stages, it spins
at length a cocoon. There is a class of women who unwind and reel off the cocoons, and afterwards
weave a fabric with the thread; and a certain woman of Cos is credited with the invention of
this fabric. This is, at first sight, a plain and straightforward description of the silkworm;
but we know that it was not till long afterwards, nearly a thousand years after, in Justinian's
reign, that the silkworm and the mulberry-tree which is its food were brought out of the East
into Byzantine Greece. We learn something of this Coan silkworm from Pliny, who tells us that
it lived on the ash and oak and cypress tree; and from Clement of Alexandria and other of the
Fathers we glean a little more--for instance, that the larva was covered with thick-set hairs,
and that the cocoon was of a loose material something like a spider's web. All this agrees
in every particular with a certain large moth (Lasiocampa otus), which spins a rough cocoon
not unlike that of our Emperor moth, and lives in south-eastern Europe, feeding on the cypress
and the oak. Many other silkworms besides the true or common one are still employed, worms
which yield the Tussore silks of India and other kindred silks in Japan; and so likewise was
this rough silky fabric spun and woven in Hellas, until in course of time it was surpassed
and superseded by the finer produce of the 'Seric worm', and the older industry died out and
was utterly forgotten.

Ere we leave the subject of insects let us linger a moment over one which the Greeks loved,
and loved most of all. When as schoolboys we first began to read our Thucydides, we met in
the very beginning with the story of how rich Athenians wore Golden Grasshoppers (as the schoolmaster
calls them) in their hair. These golden ornaments were, of course, no common grasshoppers,
but the little Cicadas, whose sharp chirrup seemed delightful music to the Greeks. It is unpleasant
to our ears, as Browning found it; but in a multitude of Greek poets, in Alcaeus and Anacreon
and all through the whole Anthology, we hear its praise. We have it, for instance, in the Birds:

    Though the hot sun be shining in the sky
    In the deep flowery meadow-grass I lie:
    To listen to the shrill melodious tune
    Of crickets, thrilled to ecstasy at noon.

Of this familiar and beloved insect Aristotle gives a copious account. He describes two separate
species, which we still recognize easily; a larger one and the better singer, the other smaller
and the first to come and last to go with the summer season. He recognized the curious vocal
organ, or vibratory drum, at the cicada's waist, and saw that some cicadas possessed it and
others not; and he knew, as the poets also knew, that it was the males who sang, while their
wives listened and were silent. He tells how the cicada is absent from treeless countries,
as, for instance, from Cyrene (and why, I wonder, does he go all the way to Cyrene for his
illustration?), neither is it heard in deep and sunless woods; but in the olive-groves you
hear it at its best, for an olive-grove is sparse and the sun comes through. Then he tells
us briefly, but with remarkable accuracy, the story of the creature's life: how the female,
with her long ovipositor, lays her eggs deep down in dead, hollow twigs, such as the canes
on which the vines are propped; how the brood, when they escape from the egg, burrow underground;
how later on they emerge, especially in rainy weather, when the rains have softened the soil;
how then the larva changes into another form, the so-called 'nymph'; and how at last, when
summer comes, the skin of the nymph breaks and the perfect insect issues forth, changes colour,
and begins to sing. In Aristophanes, in Theocritus, in Lucretius, Virgil, Martial, and in the
Anthology, we may gather up a host of poetical allusions to the natural history thus simply
epitomized.

The Book about Animals, the Historia Animalium as we say, from which I have quoted these few
examples of Aristotle's store of information, may be taken to represent the first necessary
stage of scientific inquiry. There is a kind of manual philosophy (as old Lord Monboddo called
it) which investigates facts which escape the vulgar, and may be called the anecdotes or secret
history of nature. In this fascinating pursuit Gilbert White excelled, and John Ray and many
another--the whole brotherhood of simple naturalists. But such accumulated knowledge of facts
is but the foundation of a philosophy; and 'nothing deserves the name of philosophy, except
what explains the causes and principles of things'. Aristotle would have done much had he merely
shown (as Gilbert White showed to the country gentlemen of his day) that the minute observation
of nature was something worth the scholar and the gentleman's while; but, far more than this,
he made a Science of natural knowledge, and set it once for all within the realm of Philosophy.
He set it side by side with the more ancient science of Astronomy, which for many hundred years
in Egypt and the East, and for some few centuries in Hellas, had occupied the mind of philosophers
and the attention of educated men. I have quoted before a great sentence in which he explains
his purpose, and makes excuse for his temerity. 'The glory, doubtless, of the heavenly bodies
fills us with more delight than the contemplation of these lowly things; for the sun and stars
are born not, neither do they decay, but are eternal and divine. But the heavens are high and
afar off, and of celestial things the knowledge that our senses give us is scanty and dim.
The living creatures, on the other hand, are at our door, and if we so desire it we may gain
ample and certain knowledge of each and all. We take pleasure in the beauty of a statue, shall
not then the living fill us with delight; and all the more if in the spirit of philosophy we
search for causes and recognize the evidences of design. Then will nature's purpose and her
deep-seated laws be everywhere revealed, all tending in her multitudinous work to one form
or another of the Beautiful.'

Aristotle's voluminous writings have come down to us through many grave vicissitudes. The greatest
of them all are happily intact, or very nearly so; but some are lost and others have suffered
disorder and corruption. The work known as the 'Parts of Animals' opens (as our text has it)
with a chapter which seems meant for a general exordium to the whole series of biological treatises;
and I know no chapter in all Aristotle's books which better shows (in plainer English or easier
Greek) the master-hand of the great Teacher and Philosopher. He begins by telling us (it has
ever since been a common saying) that every science, every branch of knowledge, admits of two
sorts of proficiency--that which may properly be termed scientific knowledge, and that which
is within the reach of ordinary educated men. He proceeds to discuss the 'method' of scientific
inquiry, whether we should begin with the specific and proceed to the general, or whether we
are to deal first with common or generical characters and thereafterward with special peculiarities.
Are we entitled to treat of animals, as is done in mathematical astronomy, by dealing first
with facts or phenomena and then proceeding to discover and relate their several causes? At
once this leads to a brief discussion (elaborated elsewhere) of the two great Causes, or aspects
of cause--the final cause and the 'moving' or efficient cause--the reason why or the purpose
for which, and the antecedent cause which, of necessity, brings a thing to be such as it is.
Here is one of the great crucial questions of philosophy, and Aristotle's leaning to the side
of the Final Cause has been a dominant influence upon the minds of men throughout the whole
history of learning. Empedocles had taken another view: he held that the rain comes when it
listeth, or 'of necessity'; that we have no right to suppose it comes to make the corn grow
in spring, any more than to spoil the autumn sheaves: that the teeth grow by the operation
of some natural (or physical) law, and that their apparent and undoubted fitness for cutting
and grinding is not purposeful but coincident; that the backbone is divided into vertebrae
because of the antecedent forces, or flexions, which act upon it in the womb. And Empedocles
proceeds to the great evolutionary deduction, the clear prevision of Darwin's philosophy, that
fit and unfit arise alike, but that what is fit to survive does survive and what is unfit perishes.

The story is far too long and the theme involved too grave and difficult for treatment here.
But I would venture to suggest that Aristotle inclined to slur over the physical and lean the
more to the final cause, for this simple reason (whatever other reasons there may be), that
he was a better biologist than a physicist: that he lacked somewhat the mathematical turn of
mind which was intrinsic to the older schools of philosophy. For better for worse the course
he took, the choice he made, was of incalculable import, and had power for centuries to guide
(dare we say, to bias) the teaching of the schools, the progress of learning, and the innermost
beliefs of men.

In this one short but pregnant chapter of Aristotle's there is far more than we can hope even
to epitomize. He has much to say in it of 'classification', an important matter indeed, and
he discusses it as a great logician should, in all its rigour. Many commentators have sought
for Aristotle's 'classification of animals'; for my part I have never found it, and, in our
sense of the word, I am certain it is not there. An unbending, unchanging classification of
animals would have been something foreign to all his logic; it is all very well, it becomes
practically necessary, when we have to arrange our animals on the shelves of a museum or in
the arid pages of a 'systematic' catalogue; and it takes a new complexion when, or if, we can
attain to a real or historical classification, following lines of actual descent and based
on proven facts of historical evolution. But Aristotle (as it seems to me) neither was bound
to a museum catalogue nor indulged in visions either of a complete scala naturae or of an hypothetical
phylogeny. He classified animals as he found them; and, as a logician, he had a dichotomy for
every difference which presented itself to his mind. At one time he divided animals into those
with blood and those without, at another into the air-breathers and the water-breathers; into
the wild and the tame, the social and the solitary, and so on in endless ways besides. At the
same time he had a quick eye for the great natural groups, such 'genera' (as he called them)
as Fish or Bird, Insect or Mollusc. So it comes to pass that, while he fashioned no hard and
fast scheme of classification, and would undoubtedly (I hold) have thought it vain to do so,
the threads of his several partial or temporary classifications come together after all, though
in a somewhat hazy pattern, yet in a very beautiful and coherent parti-coloured web. And though
his order is not always our order, yet a certain exquisite orderliness is of the very essence
of his thought and style. It is the characteristic which Molière hits upon in Les Femmes savantes,--'Je
m'attache pour l'ordre au péripatétisme'.

Before he finishes the great chapter of which we have begun to speak he indicates that there
are more ways than one of relating, or classifying, our facts; that, for instance, it may be
equally proper and necessary to deal now with the animals and their several parts or properties,
and at another time with the parts or properties as such, explaining and illustrating them
in turn by the several animals which display or possess them. The 'Parts of Animals' is, then,
a corollary, a necessary corollary, to the more anecdotal Historia Animalium. And yet again,
there is a third alternative--to discuss the great functions or actions or potentialities of
the organism, as it were first of all in the abstract, and then to correlate them with the
parts which in this or that creature are provided and are 'designed' to effect them. This involves
the conception and the writing of separate physiological treatises on such themes as Respiration,
Locomotion, on Sleeping and Waking, and lastly (and in some respects the most ambitious, most
erudite, and most astonishing of them all) the great account of the Generation of Animals.

So the whole range, we might say the whole conceivable range, of biological science is sketched
out, and the greater part of the great canvas is painted in. But to bring it into touch with
human life, and to make good its claim to the high places of philosophy, we must go yet farther
and study Life itself, and what men call the Soul. So grows the great conception. We begin
with trivial anecdote, with the things that fisherman, huntsman, peasant know; the sciences
of zoology, anatomy, physiology take shape before our very eyes; and by evening we sit humbly
at the feet of the great teacher of Life itself, the historian of the Soul. It is not for us
to attempt to show that even here the story does not end, but the highest chapters of philosophy
begin. Then, when we remember that this short narrative of ours is but the faintest adumbration
of one side only of the philosopher's many-sided task and enterprise, we begin to rise towards
a comprehension of Roger Bacon's saying, that 'although Aristotle did not arrive at the end
of knowledge, he set in order all parts of philosophy'. In the same spirit a modern critic
declares: 'Il n'a seulement défini et constitué chacune des parties de la science; il en a
de plus montré le lien et l'unité'.

Aristotle, like Shakespeare, is full of old saws, tags of wisdom, jewels five words long. Here
is such a one, good for teacher and pupil alike--Δει πιστευειν τον μανθανοντα {Dei pisteuein
ton manthanonta}. It tells us that the road to Learning lies through Faith; and it means that
to be a scholar one should have a heart as well as brains.

By reason partly of extraneous interpolation, but doubtless also through a lingering credulity
from which even philosophers are not immune, we find in Aristotle many a strange story. The
goats that breathe through their ears, the vulture impregnated by the wind, the eagle that
dies of hunger, the stag caught by music, the salamander which walks through fire, the unicorn,
the mantichore, are but a few of the 'Vulgar Errors' or 'Received Tenents' (as Sir Thomas Browne
has it) which are perpetuated, not originated, in the Historia Animalium. Some of them come,
through Persia, from the farther East: and others (we meet with them once more in Horapollo
the Egyptian priest) are but the exoteric or allegorical expression of the arcana of ancient
Egyptian religion.

So it comes to pass that for two thousand years and throughout all lands men have come to Aristotle,
and found in him information and instruction--that which they desired. Arab and Moor and Syrian
and Jew treasured his books while the western world sat in darkness; the great centuries of
Scholasticism hung upon his words; the oldest of our Universities, Bologna, Paris, Oxford,
were based upon his teaching, yea, all but established for his study. Where he has been, there,
seen or unseen, his influence remains; even the Moor and the Arab find in him, to this day,
a teacher after their own hearts: a teacher of eternal verities, telling of sleep and dreams,
of youth and age, of life and death, of generation and corruption, of growth and of decay:
a guide to the book of Nature, a revealer of the Spirit, a prophet of the works of God.

The purpose of these little essays, I have been told (though I had half forgotten it), is to
help though ever so little to defend and justify the study of the language and the vast literature
of Greece. It is a task for which I am unfitted and unprepared. When Oliver Goldsmith proposed
to teach Greek at Leyden, where he 'had been told it was a desideratum', the Principal of that
celebrated University met him (as we all know) with weighty objections. But I never heard that
any man, not Goldsmith himself, attempted to confute the argument. I agree for the most part
with the Principal, and can see clearly that all the Greek that Goldsmith knew, and all the
Greek in all the world, would have meant nothing and done nothing for him. But there is and
will be many another who finds in Greek wisdom and sweet Hellenic speech something which he
needs must have, and lacking which he would be poor indeed: something which is as a staff in
his hand, a light upon his path, a lantern to his feet.

Our very lives seem prolonged by the recollection of antiquity; for, as Cicero says, not to
know what has been transacted in former times is to continue always a child. I borrow the citation
from Dr. Johnson, who reminds us also of a saying of Aristotle himself, that as students we
ought first to examine and understand what has been written by the ancients, and then cast
our eyes round upon the world.

But now I, who have dared to draw my tiny draft from Aristotle's great well, seem after all
to be seeking an excuse, seeking it in example and precept. Precept, at least, I know to be
of no avail. My father spent all the many days of his life in the study of Greek; you might
suppose it was for Wisdom's sake,--but my father was a modest man. The fact is, he did it for
a simpler reason still, a very curious reason, to be whispered rather than told: he did it
for love.

Nigh forty years ago, I first stepped out on the east-windy streets of a certain lean and hungry
town (lean, I mean, as regards scholarship) where it was to be my lot to spend thereafter many
and many a year. And the very first thing I saw there was an inscription over a very humble
doorway, 'Hic mecum habitant Dante, Cervantes, Molière'. It was the home of a poor schoolmaster,
who as a teacher of languages eked out the scanty profits of his school. I was not a little
comforted by the announcement. So the poor scholar, looking on the ragged regiment of his few
books, is helped, consoled, exalted by the reflection: Hic mecum habitant ... Homerus, Plato,
Aristoteles. And were one in a moment of inadvertence to inquire of him why he occupied himself
with Greek, he might perchance stammer (like Dominie Sampson) an almost inarticulate reply;
but more probably he would be stricken speechless by the enormous outrage of the request, and
the reason of his devotion would be hidden from the questioner for ever.

D'ARCY WENTWORTH THOMPSON.

BIOLOGY

Before Aristotle

What is science? It is a question that cannot be answered easily, nor perhaps answered at all.
None of the definitions seem to cover the field exactly; they are either too wide or too narrow.
But we can see science in its growth and we can say that being a process it can exist only
as growth. Where does the science of biology begin? Again we cannot say, but we can watch its
evolution and its progress. Among the Greeks the accurate observation of living forms, which
is at least one of the essentials of biological science, goes back very far. The word Biology,
used in our sense, would, it is true, have been an impossibility among them, for bios refers
to the life of man and could not be applied, except in a strained or metaphorical sense, to
that of other living things.[6] But the ideas we associate with the word are clearly developed
in Greek philosophy and the foundations of biology are of great antiquity.

    [6] The word Biology was introduced by Gottfried Reinhold
    Treviranus (1776-1837) in his Biologie oder die Philosophie der
    lebenden Natur, 6 vols., Göttingen, 1802-22, and was adopted by
    J.-B. de Lamarck (1744-1829) in his Hydrogéologie, Paris, 1802. It
    is probable that the first English use of the word in its modern
    sense is by Sir William Lawrence (1783-1867) in his work On the
    Physiology, Zoology, and Natural History of Man, London, 1819;
    there are earlier English uses of the word, however, contrasted with
    biography.

The Greek people had many roots, racial, cultural, and spiritual, and from them all they inherited
various powers and qualities and derived various ideas and traditions. The most suggestive
source for our purpose is that of the Minoan race whom they dispossessed and whose lands they
occupied. That highly gifted people exhibited in all stages of its development a marvellous
power of graphically representing animal forms, of which the famous Cretan friezes, Vaphio
cups (Fig. 5), and Mycenean lions provide well-known examples. It is difficult not to believe
that the Minoan element, entering into the mosaic of peoples that we call the Greeks, was in
part at least responsible for the like graphic power developed in the Hellenic world, though
little contact has yet been demonstrated between Minoan and archaic Greek Art.

For the earliest biological achievements of Greek peoples we have to rely largely on information
gleaned from artistic remains. It is true that we have a few fragments of the works of both
Ionian and Italo-Sicilian philosophers, and in them we read of theoretical speculation as to
the nature of life and of the soul, and we can thus form some idea of the first attempts of
such workers as Alcmaeon of Croton (c. 500 B. C.) to lay bare the structure of animals by dissection.[7]
The pharmacopœia also of some of the earliest works of the Hippocratic collection betrays considerable
knowledge of both native and foreign plants.[8] Moreover, scattered through the pages of Herodotus
and other early writers is a good deal of casual information concerning animals and plants,
though such material is second-hand and gives us little information concerning the habit of
exact observation that is the necessary basis of science.

    [7] The remains of Alcmaeon are given in H. Diel's Die Fragmente
    der Vorsokratiker, Berlin, 1903, p. 103. Alcmaeon is considered in
    the companion chapter on Greek Medicine.

    [8] Especially the περι γυναικειης φυσιος {peri gynaikeiês physios},
    On the nature of woman, and the περι γυναικειων {peri gynaikeiôn},
    On the diseases of women.

Something more is, however, revealed by early Greek Art. We are in possession of a series of
vases of the seventh and sixth centuries before the Christian era showing a closeness of observation
of animal forms that tells of a people awake to the study of nature. We have thus portrayed
for us a number of animals--plants seldom or never appear--and among the best rendered are
wild creatures: we see antelopes quietly feeding or startled at a sound, birds flying or picking
worms from the ground, fallow deer forcing their way through thickets, browsing peacefully,
or galloping away, boars facing the hounds and dogs chasing hares, wild cattle forming their
defensive circle, hawks seizing their prey. Many of these exhibit minutely accurate observation.
The very direction of the hairs on the animals' coats has sometimes been closely studied, and
often the muscles are well rendered. In some cases even the dentition has been found accurately
portrayed, as in a sixth-century representation on an Ionian vase of a lioness--an animal then
very rare on the Eastern Mediterranean littoral, but still known in Babylonia, Syria, and Asia
Minor. The details of the work show that the artist must have examined the animal in captivity
(Figs. 1 and 2).

Animal paintings of this order are found scattered over the Greek world with special centres
or schools in such places as Cyprus, Boeotia, or Chalcis. The very name for a painter in Greek,
zoographos, recalls the attention paid to living forms. By the fifth century, in painting them
as in other departments of Art, the supremacy of Attica had asserted itself, and there are
many beautiful Attic vase-paintings of animals to place by the side of the magnificent horses'
heads of the Parthenon (Fig. 6). In Attica, too, was early developed a characteristic and closely
accurate type of representation of marine forms, and this attained a wider vogue in Southern
Italy in the fourth century. From the latter period a number of dishes and vases have come
down to us bearing a large variety of fish forms, portrayed with an exactness that is interesting
in view of the attention to marine creatures in the surviving literature of Aristotelian origin
(Fig. 3).

These artistic products are more than a mere reflex of the daily life of the people. The habits
and positions of animals are observed by the hunter, as are the forms and colours of fish by
the fisherman; but the methods of huntsman and fisher do not account for the accurate portrayal
of a lion's dentition, the correct numbering of a fish's scales or the close study of the lie
of the feathers on the head, and the pads on the feet, of a bird of prey (Fig. 4). With observations
such as these we are in the presence of something worthy of the name Biology. Though but little
literature on that topic earlier than the writings of Aristotle has come down to us, yet both
the character of his writings and such paintings and pictures as these, suggest the existence
of a strong interest and a wide literature, biological in the modern sense, antecedent to the
fourth century.

Greek science, however, exhibits throughout its history a peculiar characteristic differentiating
it from the modern scientific standpoint. Most of the work of the Greek scientist was done
in relation to man. Nature interested him mainly in relation to himself. The Greek scientific
and philosophic world was an anthropocentric world, and this comes out in the overwhelming
mass of medical as distinct from biological writings that have come down to us. Such, too,
is the sentiment expressed by the poets in their descriptions of the animal creation:

    Many wonders there be, but naught more wondrous than man:

       *       *       *       *       *

    The light-witted birds of the air, the beasts of the weald and the wood
    He traps with his woven snare, and the brood of the briny flood.
    Master of cunning he: the savage bull, and the hart
    Who roams the mountain free, are tamed by his infinite art.
    And the shaggy rough-maned steed is broken to bear the bit.

    Sophocles, Antigone, verses 342 ff.

    (Translation of F. Storr.)

It is thus not surprising that our first systematic treatment of animals is in a practical
medical work, the περι διαιτης {peri diaitês}, On diet, of the Hippocratic Collection. This
very peculiar treatise dates from the later part of the fifth century. It is strongly under
the influence of Heracleitus (c. 540-475) and contains many points of view which reappear in
later philosophy. All animals, according to it, are formed of fire and water, nothing is born
and nothing dies, but there is a perpetual and eternal revolution of things, so that change
itself is the only reality. Man's nature is but a parallel to that of the universal nature,
and the arts of man are but an imitation or reflex of the natural arts or, again, of the bodily
functions. The soul, a mixture of water and fire, consumes itself in infancy and old age, and
increases during adult life. Here, too, we meet with that singular doctrine, not without bearing
on the course of later biological thought, that in the foetus all parts are formed simultaneously.
On the proportion of fire and water in the body all depends, sex, temper, temperament, intellect.
Such speculative ideas separate this book from the sober method of the more typical Hippocratic
medical works with which indeed it has little in common.

After having discussed these theoretical matters the work turns to its own practical concerns,
and in the course of setting out the natures of foods gives in effect a rough classification
of animals. These are set forth in groups, and from among the larger groups only the reptiles
and insects are missing. The list has been described, perhaps hardly with justification, as
the Coan classificatory system. We have here, indeed, no system in the sense in which that
word is now applied to the animal kingdom, but we have yet some sort of definite arrangement
of animals according to their supposed natures. The passage opens with mammals, which are divided
into domesticated and wild, the latter being mentioned in order according to size, next follow
the land-birds, then the water-fowl, and then the fishes. These fish are divided into (1) the
haunters of the shore, (2) the free-swimming forms, (3) the cartilaginous fishes or Selachii,
which are not so named but are placed together, (4) the mud-loving forms, and (5) the fresh-water
fish. Finally come invertebrates arranged in some sort of order according to their structure.
The characteristic feature of the 'classification' is the separation of the fish from the remaining
vertebrates and of the invertebrates from both. Of the fifty animals named no less than twenty
are fish, about a fifth of the number studied by Aristotle, but we must remember that here
only edible species are mentioned. The existence of the work shows at least that in the fifth
century there was already a close and accurate study of animal forms, a study that may justly
be called scientific. The predominance of fish and their classification in greater detail than
the other groups is not an unexpected feature. The Mediterranean is especially rich in these
forms, the Greeks were a maritime people, and Greek literature is full of imagery drawn from
the fisher's craft. From Minoan to Byzantine times the variety, beauty, and colour of fish
made a deep impression on Greek minds as reflected in their art.

Much more important, however, for subsequent biological development than such observations
on the nature and habits of animals, is the service that the Hippocratic physicians rendered
to Anatomy and to Physiology, departments in which the structure of man and of the domesticated
animals stands apart from that of the rest of the animal kingdom. It is with the nature and
constitution of man that most of the surviving early biological writings are concerned, and
in these departments are unmistakable tendencies towards systematic arrangement of the material.
Thus we have division and description of the body in sevens from the periphery to the centre
and from the vertex to the sole of the foot,[9] or a division into four regions or zones.[10]
The teaching concerning the four elements and four humours too became of great importance and
some of it was later adopted by Aristotle. We also meet numerous mechanical explanations of
bodily structures, comparisons between anatomical conditions encountered in related animals,
experiments on living creatures,[11] systematic incubation of hen's eggs for the study of their
development, parallels drawn between the development of plants and of human and animal embryos,
theories of generation, among which is that which was afterwards called 'pangenesis'--discussion
of the survival of the stronger over the weaker--almost our survival of the fittest--and a
theory of inheritance of acquired characters.[12] All these things show not only extensive
knowledge but also an attempt to apply such knowledge to human needs. When we consider how
even in later centuries biology was linked with medicine, and how powerful and fundamental
was the influence of the Hippocratic writings, not only on their immediate successors in antiquity,
but also on the Middle Ages and right into the nineteenth century, we shall recognize the significance
of these developments.

    [9] περι ἑβδομαδων {peri hebdomadôn}. The Greek text is lost. We
    have, however, an early and barbarous Latin translation, and there
    has recently been printed an Arabic commentary. G. Bergstrasser,
    Pseudogaleni in Hippocratis de septimanis commentarium ab Hunnino
    Q. F. arabice versum, Leipzig, 1914.

    [10] περι νουσων δ {peri nousôn d}.

    [11] περι καρδιης {peri kardiês}.

    [12] Especially in the περι γονης {peri gonês}.

Such was the character of biological thought within the fifth century, and a generation inspired
by this movement produced some noteworthy works in the period which immediately followed. In
the treatise περι τροφης {peri trophês}, On nourishment, which may perhaps be dated about 400
B. C., we learn of the pulse for the first time in Greek medical literature, and read of a
physiological system which lasted until the time of Harvey, with the arteries arising from
the heart and the veins from the liver. Of about the same date is a work περι καρδιης {peri
kardiês}, On the heart, which describes the ventricles as well as the great vessels and their
valves, and compares the heart of animals with that of man.

A little later, perhaps 390 B. C., is the treatise περι σαρκων {peri sarkôn}, On muscles, which
contains much more than its title suggests. It has the old system of sevens and, inspired perhaps
by the philosophy of Heracleitus (c. 540-475), describes the heart as sending air, fire, and
movement to the different parts of the body through the vessels which are themselves constantly
in movement. The infant in its mother's womb is believed to draw in air and fire through its
mouth and to eat in utero. The action of the air on the blood is compared to its action on
fire. In contrast to some of the other Hippocratic treatises the central nervous system is
in the background; much attention, however, is given to the special senses. The brain resounds
during audition. The olfactory nerves are hollow, lead to the brain, and, convey volatile substances
to it which cause it to secrete mucus. The eyes also have been examined, and their coats and
humours roughly described; an allusion, the first in literature, is perhaps made to the crystalline
lens, and the eyes of animals are compared with those of man. There is evidence not only of
dissection but of experiment, and in efforts to compare the resistance of various tissues to
such processes as boiling, we may see the small beginning of chemical physiology.

An abler work than any of these, but exhibiting less power of observation is a treatise, περι
γονης {peri gonês}, On generation, that may perhaps be dated about 380 B. C.[13] It exhibits
a writer of much philosophic power, very anxious for physiological explanations, but hampered
by ignorance of physics. He has, in fact, the weaknesses and in a minor degree the strength
of his successor Aristotle, of whose great work on generation he gives us a fore-taste. He
sets forth in considerable detail a doctrine of pangenesis, not wholly unlike that of Darwin.
In order to explain the phenomena of inheritance he supposes that vessels reach the seed, carrying
with them samples from all parts of the body. He believes that channels pass from all the organs
to the brain and then to the spinal marrow (or to the marrow direct), thence to the kidneys
and on to the genital organs; he believes, too, that he knows the actual location of one such
channel, for he observes, wrongly, that incision behind the ears, by interrupting the passage,
leads to impotence. As an outcome of this theory he is prepared to accept inheritance of acquired
characters. The embryo develops and breathes by material transmitted from the mother through
the umbilical cord. We encounter here also a very detailed description of a specimen of exfoliated
membrana mucosa uteri which our author mistakes for an embryo, but his remarks at least exhibit
the most eager curiosity.[14]

    [13] The three works περι γονης {peri gonês}, περι φυσιος παιδιου
    {peri physios paidiou}, περι νουσων δ {peri nousôn d}, On
    generation, on the nature of the embryo, on diseases, book IV,
    form really one treatise on generation.

    [14] περι φυσιος παιδιου {peri physios paidiou}, On the nature of
    the embryo, § 13. The same experience is described in the περι
    σαρκων {peri sarkôn}, On the muscles.

The author of this work on generation is thus a 'biologist' in the modern sense, and among
the passages exhibiting him in this light is his comparison of the human embryo with the chick.
'The embryo is in a membrane in the centre of which is the navel through which it draws and
gives its breath, and the membranes arise from the umbilical cord.... The structure of the
child you will find from first to last as I have already described.... If you wish, try this
experiment: take twenty or more eggs and let them be incubated by two or more hens. Then each
day from the second to that of hatching remove an egg, break it, and examine it. You will find
exactly as I say, for the nature of the bird can be likened to that of man.

The same interest that he exhibits for the development of man and animals he shows also for plants.

     'A seed laid in the ground fills itself with the juices there
     contained, for the soil contains in itself juices of every nature
     for the nourishment of plants. Thus filled with juice the seed is
     distended and swells, and thereby the power (= faculty ἡ δυναμις
     {hê dynamis}) diffused in the seed is compressed by pneuma and
     juice, and bursting the seed becomes the first leaves. But a time
     comes when these leaves can no longer get nourished from the juices
     in the seed. Then the seed and the leaves erupt below, for urged by
     the leaves the seed sends down that part of its power which is yet
     concentrated within it and so the roots are produced as an
     extension of the leaves. When at last the plant is well rooted
     below and is drawing its nutriment from the earth, then the whole
     grain disappears, being absorbed, save for the husk, which is the
     most solid part; and even that, decomposing in the earth,
     ultimately becomes invisible. In time some of the leaves put forth
     branches. The plant being thus produced by humidity from the seed
     is still soft and moist. Growing actively both above and below, it
     cannot as yet bear fruit, for it has not the quality of force and
     reserve (δυναμις ισχυρη και πιαρα {dynamis ischyrê kai piara}) from
     which a seed can be precipitated. But when, with time, the plant
     becomes firmer and better rooted, it develops veins as passages
     both upwards and downwards, and it draws from the soil not only
     water but more abundantly also substances that are denser and
     fatter. Warmed, too, by the sun, these act as a ferment to the
     extremities and give rise to fruit after its kind.

Nor does our author hesitate to draw an analogy between the plant and the mammalian embryo.
'In the same way the infant lives within its mother's womb and in a state corresponding to
the health of the mother ... and you will find a complete similitude between the products of
the soil and the products of the womb.'

The early Greek literature is so scantily provided with illustrations drawn from botanical
study, that it is worth considering the remarkable comparison of generation of plants from
cuttings and from seeds in the same work.

     'As regards plants generated from cuttings ... that part of a
     branch where it was cut from a tree is placed in the earth and
     there rootlets are sent out. This is how it happens: The part of
     the plant within the soil draws up juices, swells, and develops a
     pneuma (πνευμα ισχει {pneuma ischei}), but not so the part without.
     The pneuma and the juice concentrate the power of the plant below
     so that it becomes denser. Then the lower end erupts and gives
     forth tender roots. Then the plant, taking from below, draws juices
     from the roots and transmits them to the part above the soil which
     thus also swells and develops pneuma; thus the power from being
     diffused in the plant becomes concentrated and budding, gives forth
     leaves.... Cuttings, then, differ from seeds. With a seed the
     leaves are borne first, then the roots are sent down; with a
     cutting the roots form first and then the leaves.'[17]

    [17] Ibid. § 23.

But with these works of the early part of the fourth century the first stage of Greek biology
reaches its finest development. Later Hippocratic treatises which deal with physiological topics
are on a lower plane, and we must seek some external cause for the failure. Nor have we far
to seek. This period saw the rise of a movement that had the most profound influence on every
department of thought. We see the advent into the Greek world of a great intellectual movement
as a result of which the department of philosophy that dealt with nature receded before Ethics.
Of that intellectual revolution--perhaps the greatest the world has seen--Athens was the site
and Socrates (470-399) the protagonist. With the movement itself and its characteristic fruit
we are not concerned. But the great successor and pupil of its founder gives us in the Timaeus
a picture of the depth to which natural science can be degraded in the effort to give a specific
teleological meaning to all parts of the visible Universe. The book and the picture which it
draws, dark and repulsive to the mind trained in modern scientific method, enthralled the imagination
of a large part of mankind for wellnigh two thousand years. Organic nature appears in this
work of Plato (427-347) as the degeneration of man whom the Creator has made most perfect.
The school that held this view ultimately decayed as a result of its failure to advance positive
knowledge. As the centuries went by its views became further and further divorced from phenomena,
and the bizarre developments of later Neoplatonism stand to this day as a warning against any
system which shall neglect the investigation of nature. But in its decay Platonism dragged
science down and destroyed by neglect nearly all earlier biological material. Mathematics,
not being a phenomenal study, suited better the Neoplatonic mood and continued to advance,
carrying astronomy with it for a while--astronomy that affected the life of man and that soon
became the handmaid of astrology; medicine, too, that determined the conditions of man's life
was also cherished, though often mistakenly, but pure science was doomed.

But though the ethical view of nature overwhelmed science in the end, the advent of the mighty
figure of Aristotle (384-322) stayed the tide for a time. Yet the writer on Greek Biology remains
at a disadvantage in contrast with the Historian of Greek Mathematics, of Greek Astronomy,
or of Greek Medicine, in the scantiness of the materials for presenting an account of the development
of his studies before Aristotle. The huge form of that magnificent naturalist completely overshadows
Greek as it does much of later Biology.

CHARLES SINGER.

After Aristotle

All Aristotle's surviving biological works refer primarily to the animal creation. His work
on plants is lost or rather has survived as the merest corrupted fragment. We are fortunate,
however, in the possession of a couple of complete works by his pupil and successor Theophrastus
(372-287), which may not only be taken to represent the Aristotelian attitude towards the plant
world, but also give us an inkling of the general state of biological science in the generation
which succeeded the master.

These treatises of Theophrastus are in many respects the most complete and orderly of all ancient
biological works that have reached our time. They give an idea of the kind of interest that
the working scientist of that day could develop when inspired rather by the genius of a great
teacher than by the power of his own thoughts. Theophrastus is a pedestrian where Aristotle
is a creature of wings, he is in a relation to the master of the same order that the morphologists
of the second half of the nineteenth century were to Darwin. For a couple of generations after
the appearance of the Origin of Species in 1859 the industry and ability of naturalists all
over the world were occupied in working out in detail the structure and mode of life of living
things on the basis of the Evolutionary philosophy. Nearly all the work on morphology and much
of that on physiology since his time might be treated as a commentary on the works of Darwin.
These volumes of Theophrastus give the same impression. They represent the remains--alas, almost
the only biological remains--of a school working under the impulse of a great idea and spurred
by the memory of a great teacher. As such they afford a parallel to much scientific work of
our own day, produced by men without genius save that provided by a vision and a hope and an
ideal. Of such men it is impossible to write as of Aristotle. Their lives are summed up by
their actual achievement, and since Theophrastus is an orderly writer whose works have descended
to us in good state, he is a very suitable instance of the actual standard of achievement of
ancient biology. 'Without vision the people perish' and the very breath of life of science
is drawn, and can only be drawn, from that very small band of prophets who from time to time,
during the ages, have provided the great generalizations and the great ideals. In this light
let us examine the work of Theophrastus.

In the absence of any adequate system of classification, almost all botany until the seventeenth
century consisted mainly of descriptions of species. To describe accurately a leaf or a root
in the language in ordinary use would often take pages. Modern botanists have invented an elaborate
terminology which, however hideous to eye and ear, has the crowning merit of helping to abbreviate
scientific literature. Botanical writers previous to the seventeenth century were substantially
without this special mode of expression. It is partly to this lack that we owe the persistent
attempts throughout the centuries to represent plants pictorially in herbals, manuscript and
printed, and thus the possibility of an adequate history of plant illustration.

Theophrastus seems to have felt acutely the need of botanical terms, and there are cases in
which he seeks to give a special technical meaning to words in more or less current use. Among
such words are carpos = fruit, pericarpion = seed vessel = pericarp, and metra, the word used
by him for the central core of any stem whether formed of wood, pith, or other substance. It
is from the usage of Theophrastus that the exact definition of fruit and pericarp has come
down to us.[18] We may easily discern also the purpose for which he introduces into botany
the term metra, a word meaning primarily the womb, and the vacancy in the Greek language which
it was made to fill. 'Metra,' he says, 'is that which is in the middle of the wood, being third
in order from the bark and [thus] like to the marrow in bones. Some call it the heart (καρδιαν
{kardian}), others the inside (εντεριωνην {enteriônên}), yet others call only the innermost
part of the metra itself the heart, while others again call this marrow.'[19] He is thus inventing
a word to cover all the different kinds of core and importing it from another study. This is
the method of modern scientific nomenclature which hardly existed for botanists even as late
as the sixteenth century of our era. The real foundations of our modern nomenclature were laid
in the later sixteenth and in the seventeenth century by Cesalpino and Joachim Jung.

    [18] It is possible that Theophrastus derived the word pericarp from
    Aristotle. Cp. De anima, ii. 1, 412 b 2. In the passage το φυλλον
    περικαρπιου σκεπασμα, το δε περικαρπιον καρπου {to phyllon
    perikarpiou skepasma, to de perikarpion karpou}, in the De anima
    the word does not, however, seem to have the full technical force
    that Theophrastus gives to it.

    [19] Historia plantarum, i. 2, vi.

Theophrastus understood the value of developmental study, a conception derived from his master.
'A plant', he says, 'has power of germination in all its parts, for it has life in them all,
wherefore we should regard them not for what they are but for what they are becoming.'[20]
The various modes of plant reproduction are correctly distinguished in a way that passes beyond
the only surviving earlier treatise that deals in detail with the subject, the Hippocratic
work On generation. 'The manner of generation of trees and plants are these: spontaneous, from
a seed, from a root, from a piece torn off, from a branch or twig, from the trunk itself, or
from pieces of the wood cut up small.'[21] The marvel of germination must have awakened admiration
from a very early date. We have already seen it occupying a more ancient author, and it had
also been one of the chief preoccupations of Aristotle. It is thus not remarkable that the
process should impress Theophrastus, who has left on record his views on the formation of the
plant from the seed.

    [20] Ibid. i. 1, iv.

    [21] Historia plantarum, ii. 1, i.

     'Some germinate, root and leaves, from the same point, some
     separately from either end of the seed. Thus wheat, barley, spelt,
     and all such cereals [germinate] from either end, corresponding to
     the position [of the seed] in the ear, the root from the stout
     lower part, the shoot from the upper; but the two, root and stem,
     form a single continuous whole. The bean and other leguminous
     plants are not so, but in them root and stem are from the same
     point, namely, their place of attachment to the pod, where, it is
     plain, they have their origin. In some cases there is a process, as
     in beans, chick peas, and especially lupines, from which the root
     grows downward, the leaf and stem upward.... In certain trees the
     bud first germinates within the seed, and, as it increases in size,
     the seeds split--all such seeds are, as it were, in two halves;
     again, all those of leguminous plants have plainly two lobes and
     are double--and then the root is immediately thrust out. But in
     cereals, the seeds being in one piece, this does not happen, but
     the root grows a little before [the shoot].

     'Barley and wheat come up monophyllous, but peas, beans, and chick
     peas polyphyllous. All leguminous plants have a single woody root,
     from which grow slender side roots ... but wheat, barley, and the
     other cereals have numerous slender roots by which they are matted
     together.... There is a contrast between these two kinds; the
     leguminous plants have a single root and have many side-growths
     above from the [single] stem ... while the cereals have many roots
     and send up many shoots, but these have no side-shoots.'[22]

    [22] Historia plantarum, viii. 1, i.

There can be no doubt that here is a piece of minute observation on the behaviour of germinating
seeds. The distinction between dicotyledons and monocotyledons is accurately set forth, though
the stress is laid not so much on the cotyledonous character of the seed as on the relation
of root and shoot. In the dicotyledons root and shoot are represented as springing from the
same point, and in monocotyledons from opposite poles in the seed.

No further effective work was done on the germinating seed until the invention of the microscope,
and the appearance of the work of Highmore (1613-85),[23] and the much more searching investigations
of Malpighi (1628-94)[24] and Grew (1641-1712)[25] after the middle of the seventeenth century.
The observations of Theophrastus are, however, so accurate, so lucid, and so complete that
they might well be used as legends for the plates of these writers two thousand years after him.

    [23] Nathaniel Highmore, A History of Generation, London, 1651.

    [24] Marcello Malpighi, Anatome plantarum, London, 1675.

    [25] Nehemiah Grew, Anatomy of Vegetables begun, London, 1672.

Much has been written as to the knowledge of the sex of plants among the ancients. It may be
stated that of the sexual elements of the flower no ancient writer had any clear idea. Nevertheless,
sex is often attributed to plants, and the simile of the Loves of Plants enters into works
of the poets. Plants are frequently described as male and female in ancient biological writings
also, and Pliny goes so far as to say that some students considered that all herbs and trees
were sexual.[26] Yet when such passages can be tested it will be found that these so-called
males and females are usually different species. In a few cases a sterile variety is described
as the male and a fertile as the female. In a small residuum of cases diœcious plants or flowers
are regarded as male and female, but with no real comprehension of the sexual nature of the
flowers. There remain the palms, in which the knowledge of plant sex had advanced a trifle
farther. 'With dates', says Theophrastus, 'the males should be brought to the females; for
the males make the fruit persist and ripen, and this some call by analogy to use the wild fig
(ολυνθαζειν {olynthazein}).[27] The process is thus: when the male is in the flower they at
once cut off the spathe with the flower and shake the bloom, with its flower and dust, over
the fruit of the female, and, if it is thus treated, it retains the fruit and does not shed
it.'[28] The fertilizing character of the spathe of the male date palm was familiar in Babylon
from a very early date. It is recorded by Herodotus[29] and is represented by a frequent symbol
on the Assyrian monuments.

    [26] Pliny, Naturalis historia, xiii. 4.

    [27] The curious word ολυνθαζειν {olynthazein}, here translated to
    use the wild fig, is from ολυνθος {olynthos}, a kind of wild fig
    which seldom ripens. The special meaning here given to the word is
    explained in another work of Theophrastus, De causis plantarum,
    ii. 9, xv. After describing caprification in figs, he says το δε επι
    των φοινικων συμβαινον ου ταυτον μεν, εχει δε τινα ὁμοιοτητα τουτω
    δι' ὁ καλουσιν ολυνθαζειν αυτους {to de epi tôn phoinikôn symbainon
    ou tauton men, echei de tina homoiotêta toutô di' ho kalousin
    olynthazein autous} 'The same thing is not done with dates, but
    something analogous to it, whence this is called ολυνθαζειν'
    {olynthazein'}.

    [28] Historia plantarum, ii. 8, iv.

    [29] Herodotus i. 193.

The comparison of the fertilization of the date palm to the use of the wild fig refers to the
practice of Caprification. Theophrastus tells us that there are certain trees, the fig among
them, which are apt to shed their fruit prematurely. To remedy this 'the device adopted is
caprification. Gall insects come out of the wild figs which are hanging there, eat the tops
of the cultivated figs, and so make them swell'.[30] These gall-insects 'are engendered from
the seeds'.[31] Theophrastus distinguished between the process as applied to the fig and the
date, observing that 'in both [fig and date] the male aids the female--for they call the fruit-bearing
[palm] female--but whilst in the one there is a union of the two sexes, in the other things
are different'.[32]

    [30] Historia plantarum, ii. 8, i.

    [31] Ibid. ii. 8, ii.

    [32] Historia plantarum, ii. 8, iv.

Theophrastus was not very successful in distinguishing the nature of the primary elements of
plants, though he was able to separate root, stem, leaf, stipule, and flower on morphological
as well as to a limited extent on physiological grounds. For the root he adopts the familiar
definition, the only one possible before the rise of chemistry, that it 'is that by which the
plant draws up nourishment',[33] a description that applies to the account given by the pre-Aristotelian
author of the work περι γονης {peri gonês}, On generation. But Theophrastus shows by many examples
that he is capable of following out morphological homologies. Thus he knows that the ivy regularly
puts forth roots from the shoots between the leaves, by means of which it gets hold of trees
and walls,[34] that the mistletoe will not sprout except on the bark of living trees into which
it strikes its roots, and that the very peculiar formation of the mangrove tree is to be explained
by the fact that 'this plant sends out roots from the shoots till it has hold on the ground
and roots again: and so there comes to be a continuous circle of roots round the tree, not
connected with the main stem, but at a distance from it'.[35] He does not succeed, however,
in distinguishing the real nature of such structures as bulbs, rhizomes, and tubers, but regards
them all as roots. Nor is he more successful in his discussion of the nature of stems. As to
leaves, he is more definite and satisfactory, though wholly in the dark as to their function;
he is quite clear that the pinnate leaf of the rowan tree, for instance, is a leaf and not
a branch.

    [33] Ibid. i. 1, ix.

    [34] Ibid. iii. 18, x.

    [35] De causis plantarum, ii. 23.

Notwithstanding his lack of insight as to the nature of sex in flowers, he attains to an approximately
correct idea of the relation of flower and fruit. Some plants, he says, 'have [the flower]
around the fruit itself as vine and olive; [the flowers] of the latter, when they drop, look
as though they had a hole through them, and this is taken for a sign that it has blossomed
well; for if [the flower] is burnt up or sodden, the fruit falls with it, and so it does not
become pierced. Most flowers have the fruit case in the middle, or it may be the flower is
on the top of the pericarp as in pomegranate, apple, pear, plum, and myrtle ... for these have
their seeds below the flower.... In some cases again the flower is on top of the seeds themselves
as in ... all thistle-like plants'.[36] Thus Theophrastus has succeeded in distinguishing between
the hypogynous, perigynous, and epigynous types of flower, and has almost come to regard its
relation to the fruit as the essential floral element.

    [36] Historia plantarum, i. 13, iii.

Theophrastus has a perfectly clear idea of plant distribution as dependent on soil and climate,
and at times seems to be on the point of passing from a statement of climatic distribution
into one of real geographical regions. The general question of plant distribution long remained
at, if it did not recede from, the position where he left it. The usefulness of the manuscript
and early printed herbals in the West was for centuries marred by the retention of plant descriptions
prepared for the Greek East and Latin South, and these works were saved from complete ineffectiveness
only by an occasional appeal to nature.

With the death of Theophrastus about 287 B. C. pure biological science substantially disappears
from the Greek world, and we get the same type of deterioration that is later encountered in
other scientific departments. Science ceases to have the motive of the desire to know, and
becomes an applied study, subservient to the practical arts. It is an attitude from which in
the end applied science itself must suffer also. Yet the centuries that follow were not without
biological writers of very great ability. In the medical school of Alexandria anatomy and physiology
became placed on a firm basis from about 300 B. C., but always in the position subordinate
to medicine that they have since occupied. Two great names of that school, Herophilus and Erasistratus,
we must consider elsewhere.[37] Their works have disappeared and we have the merest fragments
of them. In the last pre-Christian and the first two post-Christian centuries, however, there
were several writers, portions of whose works have survived and are of great biological importance.
Among them we include Crateuas, a botanical writer and illustrator, who greatly developed,
if he did not actually introduce, the method of representing plants systematically by illustration
rather than by description. This method, important still, was even more important when there
was no proper system of botanical nomenclature. Crateuas by his paintings of plants, copies
of which have not improbably descended to our time, began a tradition which, fixed about the
fifth century, remained almost rigid until the re-discovery of nature in the sixteenth. He
was physician to Mithridates VI Eupator (120-63 B. C.), but his work was well known and appreciated
at Rome, which became the place of resort for Greek talent.[38]

    [37] See the companion chapter on Greek Medicine.

    [38] The surviving fragments of the works of Crateuas have recently
    been printed by M. Wellmann as an appendix to the text of
    Dioscorides, De materia medica, 3 vols., Berlin, 1906-17, iii. pp.
    144-6. The source and fate of his plant drawings are discussed in
    the same author's Krateuas, Berlin, 1897.

Celsus, who flourished about 20 B. C., wrote an excellent work on medicine, but gives all too
little glimpse of anatomy and physiology. Rufus of Ephesus, however, in the next century practised
dissection of apes and other animals. He described the decussation of the optic nerves and
the capsule of the crystalline lens, and gave the first clear description that has survived
of the structure of the eye. He regarded the nerves as originating from the brain, and distinguished
between nerves of motion and of sensation. He described the oviduct of the sheep and rightly
held that life was possible without the spleen.

The second Christian century brings us two writers who, while scientifically inconsiderable,
acted as the main carriers of such tradition of Greek biology as reached the Middle Ages, Pliny
and Dioscorides. Pliny (A. D. 23-79), though a Latin, owes almost everything of value in his
encyclopaedia to Greek writings. In his Natural History we have a collection of current views
on the nature, origin, and uses of plants and animals such as we might expect from an intelligent,
industrious, and honest member of the landed class who was devoid of critical or special scientific
skill. Scientifically the work is contemptible, but it demands mention in any study of the
legacy of Greece, since it was, for centuries, a main conduit of the ancient teaching and observations
on natural history. Read throughout the ages, alike in the darkest as in the more enlightened
periods, copied and recopied, translated, commented on, extracted and abridged, a large part
of Pliny's work has gradually passed into folk-keeping, so that through its agency the gipsy
fortune-teller of to-day is still reciting garbled versions of the formulae of Aristotle and
Hippocrates of two and a half millennia ago.

The fate of Dioscorides (flourished A. D. 60) has been not dissimilar. His work On Materia
Medica consists of a series of short accounts of plants, arranged almost without reference
to the nature of the plants themselves, but quite invaluable for its terse and striking descriptions
which often include habits and habitats. Its history has shown it to be one of the most influential
botanical treatises ever penned. It provided most of the little botanical knowledge that reached
the Middle Ages. It furnished the chief stimulus to botanical research at the time of the Renaissance.
It has decided the general form of every modern pharmacopœia. It has practically determined
modern plant nomenclature both popular and scientific.

Translated into nearly every language from Anglo-Saxon and Bohemian to Arabic and Hebrew, appearing
both abstracted and in full in innumerable beautifully illuminated manuscripts, some of which
are still among the fairest treasures of the great national libraries, Dioscorides, the drug-monger,
appealed to scholasticized minds for centuries. The frequency with which fragments of him are
encountered in papyri shows how popular his work was in Egypt in the third and fourth centuries.
One of the earliest datable Greek codices in existence is a glorious volume of Dioscorides
written in capitals,[39] thought worthy to form a wedding gift for a lady who was the daughter
of one Roman emperor and the betrothed of a second.[40] The illustrations of this fifth-century
manuscript are a very valuable monument for the history of art and the chief adornment of what
was once the Royal Library at Vienna[41] (figs. 9-10). Illustrated Latin translations of Dioscorides
were in use in the time of Cassiodorus (490-585). A work based on it, similarly illustrated,
but bearing the name of Apuleius, is among the most frequent of mediaeval botanical documents
and the earliest surviving specimen is contemporary with Cassiodorus himself.[42] After the
revival of learning Dioscorides continued to attract an immense amount of philological and
botanical ability, and scores of editions of his works, many of them nobly illustrated, poured
out of the presses of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.

    [39] The manuscript in question is Med. Graec. 1 at what was the
    Royal Library at Vienna. It is known as the Constantinopolitanus.
    After the war it was taken to St. Mark's at Venice, but either has
    been or is about to be restored to Vienna. A facsimile of this grand
    manuscript was published by Sijthoff, Leyden, 1906.

    [40] The lady in question was Juliana Anicia, daughter of Anicius
    Olybrius, Emperor of the West in 472, and his wife Placidia,
    daughter of Valentinian III. Juliana was betrothed in 479 by the
    Eastern Emperor Zeno to Theodoric the Ostrogoth, but was married,
    probably in 487 when the manuscript was presented to her, to
    Areobindus, a high military officer under the Byzantine Emperor
    Anastasius.

    [41] The importance of this manuscript as well as the position of
    Dioscorides as medical botanist is discussed by Charles Singer in an
    article 'Greek Biology and the Rise of Modern Biology', Studies in
    the History and Method of Science, vol. ii, Oxford, 1921.

    [42] This manuscript is at the University Library at Leyden, where
    it is numbered Voss Q 9.

But the greatest biologist of the late Greek period, and indeed one of the greatest biologists
of all time, was Claudius Galen of Pergamon (A. D. 131-201). Galen devoted himself to medicine
from an early age, and in his twenty-first year we hear of him studying anatomy at Smyrna under
Pelops. With the object of extending his knowledge of drugs he early made long journeys to
Asia Minor. Later he proceeded to Alexandria, where he improved his anatomical equipment, and
here, he tells us, he examined a human skeleton. It is indeed probable that his direct practical
acquaintance with human anatomy was limited to the skeleton and that dissection of the human
body was no longer carried on at Alexandria in his time. Thus his physiology and anatomy had
to be derived mainly from animal sources. He is the most voluminous of all ancient scientific
writers and one of the most voluminous writers of antiquity in any department. We are not here
concerned with the medical material which mainly fills these huge volumes, but only with the
physiological views which not only prevailed in medicine until Harvey and after, but also governed
for fifteen hundred years alike the scientific and the popular ideas on the nature and workings
of the animal body, and have for centuries been embedded in our speech. A knowledge of these
physiological views of Galen is necessary for any understanding of the history of biology and
illuminates many literary allusions of the Middle Ages and Renaissance.

Between the foundation of the Alexandrian school and the time of Galen, medicine was divided
among a great number of sects. Galen was an eclectic and took portions of his teaching from
many of these schools, but he was also a naturalist of great ability and industry, and knew
well the value of the experimental way. Yet he was a somewhat windy philosopher and, priding
himself on his philosophic powers, did not hesitate to draw conclusions from evidence which
was by no means always adequate. The physiological system that he thus succeeded in building
up we may now briefly consider (fig. 11).

The basic principle of life, in the Galenic physiology, is a spirit, anima or pneuma, drawn
from the general world-soul in the act of respiration. It enters the body through the rough
artery (τραχεια αρτηρια {tracheia artêria}, arteria aspera of mediaeval notation), the organ
known to our nomenclature as the trachea. From this trachea the pneuma passes to the lung and
then, through the vein-like artery (αρτηρια φλεβωδης {artêria phlebôdês}, arteria venalis of
mediaeval writers, the pulmonary vein of our nomenclature), to the left ventricle. Here it
will be best to leave it for a moment and trace the vascular system along a different route.

Ingested food, passing down the alimentary tract, was absorbed as chyle from the intestine,
collected by the portal vessel, and conveyed by it to the liver. That organ, the site of the
innate heat in Galen's view, had the power of elaborating the chyle into venous blood and of
imbuing it with a spirit or pneuma which is innate in all living substance, so long as it remains
alive, the natural spirits (πνευμα φυσικον {pneuma physikon}, spiritus naturalis of the mediaevals).
Charged with this, and also with the nutritive material derived from the food, the venous blood
is distributed by the liver through the veins which arise from it in the same way as the arteries
from the heart. These veins carry nourishment and natural spirits to all parts of the body.
Iecur fons venarum, the liver as the source of the veins, remained through the centuries the
watchword of the Galenic physiology. The blood was held to ebb and flow continuously in the
veins during life.

Now from the liver arose one great vessel, the hepatic vein, from division of which the others
were held to come off as branches. Of these branches, one, our common vena cava, entered the
right side of the heart. For the blood that it conveyed to the heart there were two fates possible.
The greater part remained awhile in the ventricle, parting with its impurities and vapours,
exhalations of the organs, which were carried off by the artery-like vein (φλεπς αρτηριωδης
{phleps artêriôdês}, the mediaeval vena arterialis, our pulmonary artery) to the lung and then
exhaled to the outer air. These impurities and vapours gave its poisonous and suffocating character
to the breath. Having parted thus with its impurities, the venous blood ebbed back again from
the right ventricle into the venous system. But for a small fraction of the venous blood that
entered the right ventricle another fate was reserved. This small fraction of venous blood,
charged still with the natural spirits derived from the liver, passed through minute channels
in the septum between the ventricles and entered the left chamber. Arrived there, it encountered
the external pneuma and became thereby elaborated into a higher form of spirit, the vital spirits
(πνευμα ζωτικον {pneuma zôtikon}, spiritus vitalis), which is distributed together with blood
by the arterial system to various parts of the body. In the arterial system it also ebbed and
flowed, and might be seen and felt to pulsate there.

But among the great arterial vessels that sent forth arterial blood thus charged with vital
spirits were certain vessels which ascended to the brain. Before reaching that organ they divided
up into minute channels, the rete mirabile (πλεγμα μεγιστον θαυμα {plegma megiston thauma}),
and passing into the brain became converted by the action of that organ into a yet higher type
of spirits, the animal spirits (πνευμα ψυχικον {pneuma psychikon}, spiritus animalis), an ethereal
substance distributed to the various parts of the body by the structures known to-day as nerves,
but believed then to be hollow channels. The three fundamental faculties (δυναμεις {dynameis}),
the natural, the vital, and the animal, which brought into action the corresponding functions
of the body, thus originated as an expression of the primal force or pneuma.

This physiology, we may emphasize, is not derived from an investigation of human anatomy. In
the human brain there is no rete mirabile, though such an organ is found in the calf. In the
human liver there is no hepatic vein, though such an organ is found in the dog. Dogs, calves,
pigs, bears, and, above all, Barbary apes were freely dissected by Galen and were the creatures
from which he derived his physiological ideas. Many of Galen's anatomical and physiological
errors are due to his attributing to one creature the structures found in another, a fact that
only very gradually dawned on the Renaissance anatomists.

The whole knowledge possessed by the world in the department of physiology from the third to
the seventeenth century, nearly all the biological conceptions till the thirteenth, and most
of the anatomy and much of the botany until the sixteenth century, all the ideas of the physical
structure of living things throughout the Middle Ages, were contained in a small number of
these works of Galen. The biological works of Aristotle and Theophrastus lingered precariously
in a few rare manuscripts in the monasteries of the East; the total output of hundreds of years
of Alexandrian and Pergamenian activities was utterly destroyed; the Ionian biological works,
of which a sample has by a miracle survived, were forgotten; but these vast, windy, ill-arranged
treatises of Galen lingered on. Translated into Latin, Syriac, Arabic, and Hebrew, they saturated
the intellectual world of the Middle Ages. Commented on by later Greek writers, who were themselves
in turn translated into the same list of languages, they were yet again served up under the
names of such Greek writers as Oribasius, Paul of Aegina, or Alexander of Tralles.

What is the secret of the vitality of these Galenic biological conceptions? The answer can
be given in four words. Galen is a teleologist; and a teleologist of a kind whose views happened
to fit in with the prevailing theological attitude of the Middle Ages, whether Christian, Moslem,
or Jewish. According to him everything which exists and displays activity in the human body
originates in and is formed by an intelligent being and on an intelligent plan, so that the
organ in structure and function is the result of that plan. 'It was the Creator's infinite
wisdom which selected the best means to attain his beneficent ends, and it is a proof of His
omnipotence that he created every good thing according to His design, and thereby fulfilled
His will.'[43]

    [43] A good instance of Galen's teleological point of view is
    afforded by his classical description of the hand in the περι
    χρειας των εν ανθρωπου σωματι μοριων {peri chreias tôn en anthrôpou
    sômati moriôn}, On the uses of the parts of the body of man, i. 1.
    This passage is available in English in a tract by Thomas Bellott,
    London, 1840.

After Galen there is a thousand years of darkness, and biology ceases to have a history. The
mind of the Dark Ages turned towards theology, and such remains of Neoplatonic philosophy as
were absorbed into the religious system were little likely to be of aid to the scientific attitude.
One department of positive knowledge must of course persist. Men still suffered from the infirmities
of the flesh and still sought relief from them. But the books from which that advice was sought
had nothing to do with general principles nor with knowledge as such. They were the most wretched
of the treatises that still masqueraded under the names of Hippocrates and Galen, mostly mere
formularies, antidotaries, or perhaps at best symptom lists. And, when the depression of the
western intellect had passed its worst, there was still no biological material on which it
could be nourished.

The prevailing interest of the barbarian world, at last beginning to settle into its heritage
of antiquity, was with Logic. Of Aristotle there survived in Latin dress only the Categories
and the De interpretatione, the merciful legacy of Boethius, the last of the philosophers.
Had a translation of Aristotle's Historia animalium or De generatione animalium survived, had
a Latin version of the Hippocratic work On generation or of the treatises of Theophrastus On
plants reached the earlier Middle Ages, the whole mental history of Europe might have been
different and the rediscovery of nature might have been antedated by centuries. But this was
a change of heart for which the world had long to wait; something much less was the earliest
biological gift of Greece. The gift, when it came, came in two forms, one of which has not
been adequately recognized, but both are equally her legacy. These two forms are, firstly,
the well-known work of the early translators and, secondly, the tardily recognized work of
certain schools of minor art.

The earliest biological treatises to become accessible in the west were rendered not from Greek
but from Arabic.[44] The first of them was perhaps the treatise περι μυων κινησεως {peri myôn
kinêseôs}, On movement of muscles of Galen, a work which contains more than its title suggests
and indeed sets forth much of the Galenic physiological system. It was rendered into Latin
from the Arabic of Joannitius (Hunain ibn Ishaq, 809-73), probably about the year 1200, by
one Mark of Toledo. It attracted little attention, but very soon after biological works of
Aristotle began to become accessible. The first was probably the fragment On plants. The Greek
original of this is lost, and besides the Latin, only an Arabic version of a former Arabic
translation of a Syriac rendering of a Greek commentary is now known! Such a work appeared
from the hand of a translator known as Alfred the Englishman about 1220 or a little later.
Neither it nor another work from the same translator, On the motion of the heart, which sought
to establish the primacy of that organ on Aristotelian grounds, can be said to contain any
of the spirit of the master.[45]

    [44] The early European translations from the Arabic are tabulated
    with unparalleled learning by M. Steinschneider, 'Die Europäischen
    Uebersetzungen aus dem Arabischen bis Mitte des 17. Jahrhunderts',
    in the Sitzungsberichte der kais. Akad. der Wissenschaften in
    Wien, cxlix and cli, Vienna, 1904 and 1905.

    [45] C. H. Haskins, 'The reception of Arabic science in England,'
    English Historical Review, London, 1915, p. 56.

A little better than these is the work of the wizard Michael the Scot (1175?-1234?). Roger
Bacon tells us that Michael in 1230 'appeared [at Oxford], bringing with him the works of Aristotle
in natural history and mathematics, with wise expositors, so that the philosophy of Aristotle
was magnified among the Latins'.[46] Scott produced his work De animalibus about this date
and he included in it the three great biological works of Aristotle, all rendered from an inferior
Arabic version.[47] Albertus Magnus (1206-80) had not as yet a translation direct from the
Greek to go upon for his great commentary on the History of animals, but he depended on Scott.
The biological works of Aristotle were rendered into Latin direct from the Greek in the year
1260 probably by William of Moerbeke.[48] Such translations, appearing in the full scholastic
age when everything was against direct observation, cannot be said to have fallen on a fertile
ground. They presented an ordered account of nature and a good method of investigation, but
those were gifts to a society that knew little of their real value.[49]

    [46] Roger Bacon, Opus majus, edited by J. H. Bridges, 3 vols.,
    London, 1897-1900. Vol. iii, p. 66.

    [47] On the Aristotelian translations of Scott see A. H. Querfeld,
    Michael Scottus und seine Schrift, De secretis naturae, Leipzig,
    1919; and C. H. Haskins, 'Michael Scot and Frederick II' in Isis,
    ii. 250, Brussels, 1922.

    [48] J. G. Schneider, Aristotelis de animalibus historiae,
    Leipzig, 1811, p. cxxvi. L. Dittmeyer, Guilelmi Moerbekensis
    translatio commentationis Aristotelicae de generatione animalium,
    Dillingen, 1915. L. Dittmeyer, De animalibus historia, Leipzig,
    1907. Jahrhunderts, Münster i/W., 1916; and F. Wüstenfeld, Die
    Ubersetzungen arabischer Werke in das Lateinische seit dem XI.
    Jahrhundert, Göttingen, 1877.

Yet the advent of these texts was coincident with a returning desire to observe nature. Albert,
with all his scholasticism, was no contemptible naturalist. He may be said to have begun first-hand
plant study in modern times so far as literary records are concerned. His book De vegetabilibus
contains excellent observations, and he is worthy of inclusion among the fathers of botany.
In his vast treatise De animalibus, hampered as he is by his learning and verbosity, he shows
himself a true observer and one who has absorbed something of the spirit of the great naturalist
to whose works he had devoted a lifetime of study and on which he professes to be commenting.
We see clearly the leaven of the Aristotelian spirit working, though Albert is still a schoolman.
We may select for quotation a passage on the generation of fish, a subject on which some of
Aristotle's most remarkable descriptions remained unconfirmed till modern times. These descriptions
impressed Albert in the same way as they do the modern naturalist. To those who know nothing
of the stimulating power of the Aristotelian biological works, Albert's description of the
embryos of fish and his accurate distinction of their mode of development from that of birds,
by the absence of an allantoic membrane in the one and its presence in the other, must surely
be startling. Albert depends on Aristotle--a third-hand version of Aristotle--but does not
slavishly follow him.

'Between the mode of development (anathomiam generationis) of birds' and fishes' eggs there
is this difference: during the development of the fish the second of the two veins which extend
from the heart [as described by Aristotle in birds] does not exist. For we do not find the
vein which extends to the outer covering in the eggs of birds which some wrongly call the navel
because it carries the blood to the exterior parts; but we do find the vein that corresponds
to the yolk vein of birds, for this vein imbibes the nourishment by which the limbs increase....
In fishes as in birds, channels extend from the heart first to the head and the eyes, and first
in them appear the great upper parts. As the growth of the young fish increases the albumen
decreases, being incorporated into the members of the young fish, and it disappears entirely
when development and formation are complete. The beating of the heart ... is conveyed to the
lower part of the belly, carrying pulse and life to the inferior members.

'While the young [fish] are small and not yet fully developed they have veins of great length
which take the place of the navel-string, but as they grow and develop, these shorten and contract
into the body towards the heart, as we have said about birds. The young fish and the eggs are
enclosed and in a covering, as are the eggs and young of birds. This covering resembles the
dura mater [of the brain], and beneath it is another [corresponding therefore to the pia mater
of the brain] which contains the young animal and nothing else.'[50]

    [50] The enormous De Animalibus of Albert of Cologne is now
    available in an edition by H. Stadler, Albertus Magnus De
    Animalibus Libri XXVI nach der cölner Urschrift, 2 vols., Münster
    i/W., 1916-21. The quotation is translated from vol. i, pp. 465-6.

In the next century Conrad von Megenberg (1309-98) produced his Book of Nature, a complete
work on natural history, the first of the kind in the vernacular, founded on Latin versions,
now rendered direct from the Greek, of the Aristotelian and Galenic biological works. It is
well ordered and opens with a systematic account of the structure and physiology of man as
a type of the animal creation, which is then systematically described and followed by an account
of plants. Conrad, though guided by Aristotle, uses his own eyes and ears, and with him and
Albert the era of direct observation has begun.[51]

    [51] Conrad's work is conveniently edited by H. Schultz, Das Buch
    der Natur von Conrad von Megenberg, die erste Naturgeschichte in
    deutscher Sprache, in Neu-Hochdeutsche Sprache bearbeitet,
    Greifswald, 1897. Conrad's work is based on that of Thomas of
    Cantimpré (1201-70).

But there was another department in which the legacy of Greece found an even earlier appreciation.
For centuries the illustrations to herbals and bestiaries had been copied from hand to hand,
continuing a tradition that had its rise with Greek artists of the first century B. C. But
their work, copied at each stage without reference to the object, moved constantly farther
from resemblance to the original. At last the illustrations became little but formal patterns,
a state in which they remained in some late copies prepared as recently as the sixteenth century.
But at a certain period a change set in, and the artist, no longer content to rely on tradition,
appeals at last to nature. This new stirring in art corresponds with the new stirring in letters,
the Arabian revival--itself a legacy of Greece, though sadly deteriorated in transit--that
gave rise to scholasticism. In much of the beautiful carved and sculptured work of the French
cathedrals the new movement appears in the earlier part of the thirteenth century. At such
a place as Chartres we see the attempt to render plants and animals faithfully in stone as
early as 1240 or before. In the easier medium of parchment the same tendency appears even earlier.
When once it begins the process progresses slowly until the great recovery of the Greek texts
in the fifteenth century, when it is again accelerated.

During the sixteenth century the energy of botanists and zoologists was largely absorbed in
producing most carefully annotated and illustrated editions of Dioscorides and Theophrastus
and accounts of animals, habits, and structure that were intended to illustrate the writings
of Aristotle, while the anatomists explored the bodies of man and beast to confirm or refute
Galen. The great monographs on birds, fishes, and plants of this period, ostensibly little
but commentaries on Pliny, Aristotle, and Dioscorides, represent really the first important
efforts of modern times at a natural history. They pass naturally into the encyclopaedias of
the later sixteenth century, and these into the physiological works of the seventeenth. Aristotle
was never a dead hand in Biology as he was in Physics, and this for the reason that he was
a great biologist but was not a great physicist.

With the advance of the sixteenth century the works of Aristotle, and to a less extent those
of Dioscorides and Galen, became the great stimulus to the foundation of a new biological science.
Matthioli (1520-77), in his commentary on Dioscorides (first edition 1544), which was one of
the first works of its type to appear in the vernacular, made a number of first-hand observations
on the habits and structure of plants that is startling even to a modern botanist. About the
same time Galenic physiology, expressed also in numerous works in the vulgar tongue and rousing
the curiosity of the physicians, became the clear parent of modern physiology and comparative
anatomy. But, above all, the Aristotelian biological works were fertilizers of the mind. It
is very interesting to watch a fine observer such as Fabricius ab Acquapendente (1537-1619)
laying the foundations of modern embryology in a splendid series of first-hand observations,
treating his own great researches almost as a commentary on Aristotle. What an impressive contrast
to the arid physics of the time based also on Aristotle! 'My purpose', says Fabricius, 'is
to treat of the formation of the foetus in every animal, setting out from that which proceeds
from the egg: for this ought to take precedence of all other discussion of the subject, both
because it is not difficult to make out Aristotle's view of the matter, and because his treatise
on the Formation of the Foetus from the egg is by far the fullest, and the subject is by much
the most extensive and difficult.'[52]

    [52] Hieronimo Fabrizio of Acquapendente, De formato foetu, Padua,
    1604.

The industrious and careful Fabricius, with a wonderful talent for observation lit not by his
own lamp but by that of Aristotle, bears a relation to the master much like that held by Aristotle's
pupil in the flesh, Theophrastus. The works of the two men, Fabricius and Theophrastus, bear
indeed a resemblance to each other. Both rely on the same group of general ideas, both progress
in much the same ordered calm from observation to observation, both have an inspiration which
is efficient and stimulating but below the greatest, both are enthusiastic and effective as
investigators of fact, but timid and ineffective in drawing conclusions.

But Fabricius was more happy in his pupils than Theophrastus, for we may watch the same Aristotelian
ideas fermenting in the mind of Fabricius's successor, the greatest biologist since Aristotle
himself, William Harvey (1578-1657).[53] This writer's work On generation is a careful commentary
on Aristotle's work on the same topic, but it is a commentary not in the old sense but in the
spirit of Aristotle himself. Each statement is weighed and tested in the light of experience,
and the younger naturalist, with all his reverence for Aristotle, does not hesitate to criticize
his conclusions. He exhibits an independence of thought, an ingenuity in experiment, and a
power of deduction that places his treatise as the middle term of the three great works on
embryology of which the other members are those of Aristotle and Karl Ernst von Baer (1796-1876).[54]

    [53] William Harvey, Exercitationes de generatione animalium,
    London, 1651.

    [54] Karl Ernst von Baer, Ueber die Entwickelungsgeschichte der
    Thiere, Königsberg, 1828-37.

With the second half of the seventeenth century and during a large part of the eighteenth the
biological works of Aristotle attracted less attention. The battle against the Aristotelian
physics had been fought and won, but with them the biological works of Aristotle unjustly passed
into the shadow that overhung all the idols of the Middle Ages.

The rediscovery of the Aristotelian biology is a modern thing. The collection of the vast wealth
of living forms absorbed the energies of the generations of naturalists from Ray (1627-1705)
and Willoughby (1635-72) to Réaumur (1683-1757) and Linnaeus (1707-1778) and beyond to the
nineteenth century. The magnitude and fascination of the work seems almost to have excluded
general ideas. With the end of this period and the advent of a more philosophical type of naturalist,
such as Cuvier (1769-1832) and members of the Saint-Hilaire family, Aristotle came again to
his own. Since the dawn of the nineteenth century, and since naturalists have been in a position
to verify the work of Aristotle, his reputation as a naturalist has continuously risen. Johannes
Müller (1801-58), Richard Owen (1804-92), George Henry Lewes (1817-78), William Ogle (1827-1912)
are a few of the long line of those who have derived direct inspiration from his biological
work. With improved modern methods of investigation the problems of generation have absorbed
a large amount of biological attention, and interest has become specially concentrated on Aristotle's
work on that topic which is perhaps, at the moment, more widely read than any biological treatise,
ancient or modern, except the works of Darwin.

MEDICINE

     Ἡροφιλος δε εν τω Διαιτητικω και σοφιαν φησιν ανεπιδεικτον και
     τεχνην αδηλον και ισχυν αναγωνιστον και πλουτον αχρειον και λογον
     αδυνατον, ὑγιειας απουσης.

    {Hêrophilos de en tô Diaitêtikô kai sophian phêsin anepideikton kai
    technên adêlon kai ischyn anagôniston kai plouton achreion kai logon
    adynaton, hygieias apousês.}

Herophilos, a Greek philosopher and physician (c. 300 B. C.), has truly written 'that Science
and Art have equally nothing to show, that Strength is incapable of effort, Wealth useless,
and Eloquence powerless if Health be wanting'.[55] All peoples therefore have had their methods
of treating those departures from health that we call disease, and among peoples of higher
culture such methods have been reduced in most cases to something resembling a system. In antiquity,
as now, a variety of such systems were in vogue, and those nations who practised the art of
writing from an early date have left considerable records of their medical methods and doctrines.
We may thus form a fairly good idea of the medical principles of the Mesopotamian, the Egyptian,
the Iranian, the Indian, and the Chinese civilizations. Much in these systems, as in the medical
procedure of more primitive tribes, was based upon some theory of disease which fitted in with
a larger theory of the nature of evil. Of these theories the commonest was and is the demonic,
the view that regards deviation from the normal state of health as due either to the attacks
of supernatural beings or to their actual entry into the body of the sufferer. A medical system
based on such a view is susceptible of great elaboration in a higher civilization, but not
being founded on observation is hardly capable of indefinite development, for a point must
ultimately be reached at which the mind recoils from complex conclusions far remote from observed
phenomena. The medicine of the ancient and settled civilization of such a people as the Assyro-Babylonians,
for instance, of which substantial traces have been recovered, is hardly, if at all, more effective,
though far more systematized, than that of many a wild and unlettered tribe that may be observed
to-day. Of such medicine as this we may give an account, but we can hardly write a history.
We cannot establish those elements of continuity and of development from which alone history
can be constructed.

    [55] The works of Herophilus are lost. This fine passage has been
    preserved for us by Sextus Empiricus, a third-century physician, in
    his προς τοις μαθηματικους αιτιρρητικοι {pros tois mathêmatikous
    aitirrêtikoi}, which is in essence an attack on all positive
    philosophy. It is an entertaining fact that we should have to go to
    such a work for remains of the greatest anatomist of antiquity. The
    passage is in the section directed against ethical writers, xi. 50.

It is the distinction of the Greeks alone among the nations of antiquity that they practised
a system of medicine based not on theory but on observation accumulated systematically as time
went on. The claim can be made for the Greeks that some at least among them were deflected
by no theory, were deceived by no theurgy, were hampered by no tradition in their search for
the facts of disease and in their attempts at interpreting its phenomena. Only the Greeks among
the ancients could look on their healers as physicians (= naturalists, φυσις {physis} = nature),
and that word itself stands as a lasting reminder of their achievement.[56]

    [56] The word φυσικος {physikos}, though it passed over into Latin
    (Cicero) with the meaning naturalist, acquired the connotation of
    sorcerer among the later Greek writers. Perhaps the word
    physicianus was introduced to make a distinction from the
    charm-mongering physicus. In later Latin physicus and medicus
    are almost always interchangeable.

At a certain stage in the history of the Western world--the exact point in time may be disputed
but the event is admitted by all--men turned to explore the treasures of the ancient wisdom
and the whole mass of Greek medical learning was gradually laid before the student. That mass
contained much dross, material that survived from early as from late Greek times which was
hardly, if at all, superior to the debased compositions that circulated in the name of medicine
in the middle centuries. But the recovered Greek medical writings also contained some material
of the purest and most scientific type, and that material and the spirit in which it was written,
form the debt of modern medicine to antiquity.

It is a debt the value of which cannot be exaggerated. The physicians of the revival of learning,
and for long after, doubtless pinned their faith too much to the written word of their Greek
forbears and sought to imprison the free spirit of Hippocrates and Galen in the rigid wall
of their own rediscovered texts. The great medical pioneers of a somewhat later age, enraged
by this attempt, the real nature of which was largely hidden from them, not infrequently revolted
and rightly revolted against the bondage to the Greeks in which they had been brought up. Yet
it is sure that these modern discoverers were the true inheritors of the Greeks. Without Herophilus
we should have had no Harvey and the rise of physiology might have been delayed for centuries;
had Galen's works not survived, Vesalius would never have reconstructed Anatomy, and Surgery
too might have stayed behind with her laggard sister, Medicine; the Hippocratic collection
was the necessary and acknowledged basis for the work of the greatest of modern clinical observers,
Thomas Sydenham, and the teaching of Hippocrates and of his school is the substantial basis
of instruction in the wards of a modern hospital. In the pages which follow we propose therefore
to review the general character of medical knowledge in the best Greek period and to consider
briefly how much of that great heritage remained accessible to the earlier modern physicians.
The reader will thus be able to form some estimate of the degree to which the legacy has been
passed on to our own times.

It is evident that among such a group of peoples as the Greeks, varying in state of civilization,
in mental power, in geographical and economic position and in general outlook, the practice
of medicine can have been by no means uniform. Without any method of centralizing medical education
and standardizing teaching there was a great variety of doctrines and of practice in vogue
among them, and much of this was on a low level of folk custom. Such lower grade material of
Greek origin has come down to us in abundance, though much of it, curiously enough, from a
later time. But the overwhelming mass of earlier Greek medical literature sets forth for us
a pure scientific effort to observe and to classify disease, to make generalizations from carefully
collected data, to explain the origin of disease on rational grounds, and to apply remedies,
when possible, on a reasoned basis. We may thus rest fairly well assured that, despite serious
and irreparable losses, we are still in possession of some of the very finest products of the
Greek medical intellect.

There is ample evidence that the Greeks inherited, in common with many other peoples of Mediterranean
and Asiatic origin, a whole system of magical or at least non-rational pharmacy and medicine
from a remoter ancestry. Striking parallels can be drawn between these folk elements among
the Greeks and the medical systems of the early Romans, as well as with the medicine of the
Indian Vedas, of the ancient Egyptians, and of the earliest European barbarian writings. It
is thus reasonable to suppose that these elements, when they appear in later Greek writings,
represent more primitive folk elements working up, under the influence of social disintegration
and consequent mental deterioration, through the upper strata of the literate Greek world.
But with these elements, intensely interesting to the anthropologist, the psychologist, the
ethnologist, and to the historian of religion, we are not here greatly concerned. Important
as they are, they constitute no part of the special claim of the Greek people to distinction,
but rather aid us in uniting the Greek mentality with that of other kindred peoples. Here we
shall rather discuss the course of Greek scientific medicine proper, the type of medical doctrine
and practice, capable of development in the proper sense of the word, that forms the basis
of our modern system. We are concerned, in fact, with the earliest evolutionary medicine.

We need hardly discuss the first origins of Greek Medicine. The material is scanty and the
conclusions somewhat doubtful and perhaps premature, for the discovery of a considerable fragment
of the historical work of Menon, a pupil of Aristotle, containing a description of the views
of some of the precursors of the Hippocratic school, renews a hope that more extended investigation
may yield further information as to the sources and nature of the earliest Greek medical writings.[57]
The study of Mesopotamian star-lore has linked it up with early Greek astronomical science.
The efforts of cuneiform scholars have not, however, been equally successful for medicine,
and on the whole the general tendency of modern research is to give less weight to Mesopotamian
and more to Egyptian sources than had previously been admitted; thus very recently an Egyptian
medical papyrus of about 1700 B. C. has been described which bears a distinct resemblance to
some of the Hippocratic treatises.[58] A number of drugs, too, habitually used by the Greeks,
such as Andropogon, Cardamoms, and Sesame orientalis, are of Indian origin. There are also
the Minoan cultures to be considered, and though our knowledge is not yet sufficient to speak
of the heritage that Greek medicine may or may not have derived from that source, it seems
not improbable that Greek hygiene may here owe a debt.[59] Omitting, therefore, this early
epoch, we pass direct to the later period, between the sixth and fourth centuries, from which
documents have actually come down to us.

    [57] This fragment has been published in vol. iii, part 1, of the
    Supplementum Aristotelicum by H. Diels as Anonymi Londinensis ex
    Aristotelis Iatricis Menonis et Aliis Medicis Eclogae, Berlin,
    1893. See also H. Bekh and F. Spät, Anonymus Londinensis, Auszuge
    eines Unbekannten aus Aristoteles-Menons Handbuch der Medizin,
    Berlin, 1896.

    [58] As we go to press there appears a preliminary account of the
    very remarkable Edwin Smith papyrus, see J. H. Breasted in Recueil
    d'études egyptologiques dédiées à la mémoire de Champollion, Paris
    1922, and New York Historical Society Bulletin, 1922.

    [59] It is tempting, also, to connect the Asclepian snake cult with
    the prominence of the serpent in Minoan religion.

The earliest medical school of which we have definite information is that of Cnidus, a Lacedaemonian
colony in Asiatic Doris. Its origin may perhaps reach back to the seventh century B. C. We
have actual records that the teachers of Cnidus were accustomed to collect systematically the
phenomena of disease, of which they had produced a very complex classification, and we probably
possess also several of their actual works. The physicians of Cos, their only contemporary
critics whose writings have survived, considered that the Cnidian physicians paid too much
attention to the actual sensations of the patient and to the physical signs of the disease.
The most important of the Cnidian doctrines were drawn up in a series of Sentences or Aphorisms,
and these, it appears, inculcated a treatment along Egyptian lines of the symptom or at most
the disease, rather than the patient, a statement borne out by the contents of the gynaecological
works of probable Cnidian origin included in the so-called 'Hippocratic Collection'. A few
names of Cnidian physicians have, moreover, come down to us with titles of their works, and
a later statement that they practised anatomy. There can be little doubt too that the Cnidian
school drew also on Persian and Indian Medicine.

The origin of the school of the neighbouring island of Cos was a little later than that of
Cnidus and probably dates from the sixth century B. C. Of the Coan school, or at least of the
general tendencies that it represented, we have a magnificent and copious literary monument
in the Corpus Hippocraticum, a collection which was probably put together in the early part
of the third century B. C. by a commission of Alexandrian scholars at the order of the book-loving
Ptolemy Soter (reigned 323-285 B. C.). The elements of which this collection is composed are
of varying dates from the sixth to the fourth century B. C., and of varying value and origin,
but they mainly represent the point of view of physicians of the eastern part of the Greek
world in the fifth and fourth centuries.

The most obvious feature, the outstanding element that at once strikes the modern observer
in these 'Coan' writings, is the enormous emphasis laid on the actual course of disease. 'It
appears to me a most excellent thing', so opens one of the greatest of the Hippocratic works,
'for a physician to cultivate pronoia.[60] Foreknowing and foretelling in the presence of the
sick the past, present, and future (of their symptoms) and explaining all that the patients
are neglecting, he would be believed to understand their condition, so that men would have
confidence to entrust themselves to his care.... Thus he would win just respect and be a good
physician. By an earlier forecast in each case he would be more able to tend those aright who
have a chance of surviving, and by foreseeing and stating who will die, and who will survive,
he will escape blame....'[61]

    [60] This word pronoia, as Galen explains (εις το Ἱπποκρατους
    προγνωστικον {eis to Hippokratous prognôstikon}, K. xviii, B. p.
    10), is not used in the philosophic sense, as when we ask whether
    the universe was made by chance or by pronoia, nor is it used
    quite in the modern sense of prognosis, though it includes that
    too. Pronoia in Hippocrates means knowing things about a patient
    before you are told them. See E. T. Withington, 'Some Greek medical
    terms with reference to Luke and Liddell and Scott,' Proceedings of
    the Royal Society of Medicine (Section of the History of
    Medicine), xiii, p. 124, London, 1920.

    [61] Prognostics 1.

Just as the Cnidians by dividing up diseases according to symptoms over-emphasized diagnosis
and over-elaborated treatment, so the Coans laid very great force on prognosis and adopted
therefore a largely expectant attitude towards diseases. Both Cnidian and Coan physicians were
held together by a common bond which was, historically if not actually, related to temple worship.
Physicians leagued together in the name of a god, as were the Asclepiadae, might escape, and
did escape, the baser theurgic elements of temple medicine. Of these they were as devoid as
a modern Catholic physician might be expected to be free from the absurdities of Lourdes. But
the extreme cult of prognosis among the Coans may not improbably be traced back to the medical
lore of the temple soothsayers whose divine omens were replaced by indications of a physical
nature in the patient himself.[62] We are tempted too to link it with that process of astronomical
and astrological prognosis practised in the Mesopotamian civilizations from which Ionia imitated
and derived so much. Religion had thus the same relation to medicine that it would have with
a modern 'religious' medical man as suggesting the motive and determining the general direction
of his practice though without influence on the details and method.

    [62] There is a discussion of the relation of the Asclepiadae to
    temple practice in an article by E. T. Withington, 'The Asclepiadae
    and the Priest of Asclepius,' in Studies in the History and Method
    of Science, edited by Charles Singer, vol. ii, Oxford, 1921.

During the development of the Coan medical school along these lines in the sixth and fifth
centuries, there was going on a most remarkable movement at the very other extreme of the Greek
world. Into the course and general importance of Sicilian philosophy it is not our place to
enter, but that extraordinary movement was not without its repercussion on medical theory and
practice. Very important in this direction was Empedocles of Agrigentum (c. 500-c. 430 B. C.).
His view that the blood is the seat of the 'innate heat', εμφυτον θερμον {emphyton thermon},
he took from folk belief--'the blood is the life'--and this innate heat he closely identified
with soul. More profitable was his doctrine that breathing takes place not only through what
are now known as the respiratory passages but also through the pores of the skin. His teaching
led to a belief in the heart as the centre of the vascular system and the chief organ of the
'pneuma' which was distributed by the blood vessels. This pneuma was equivalent to both soul
and life, but it was something more. It was identified with air and breath, and the pneuma
could be seen to rise as shimmering steam from the shed blood of the sacrificial victim--for
was not the blood its natural home? There was a pneuma, too, that interpenetrated the universe
around us and gave it those qualities of life that it was felt to possess. Anaximenes (c. 610-c.
545 B. C.), an Ionian predecessor of Empedocles, may be said to have defined for us these functions
of the pneuma; ὁιον ἡ ψυχη ἡ ἡμετερα αηρ ουσα συγκρατει ἡμας, ὁλον τον κοσμον πνευμα και αηρ
περιεχει {hoion hê psychê hê hêmetera aêr ousa synkratei hêmas, holon ton kosmon pneuma kai
aêr periechei}, 'As our soul, being air, sustains us, so pneuma and air pervade the whole universe';[63]
but it is the speculation of Empedocles himself that came to be regarded as the basis of the
Pneumatic School in Medicine which had later very important developments.

    [63] The works of Anaximenes are lost. This phrase of his, however,
    is preserved by the later writer Aetios.

Another early member of the Western school who made important contributions to medical doctrine--in
which relation alone we need consider him--was Pythagoras of Samos (c. 580-c.490 B. C.). For
him number, as the purest conception, formed the basis of philosophy. Unity was the symbol
of perfection and corresponded to God Himself. The material universe was represented by 2,
and was divided by the number 12, whence we have 3 worlds and 4 spheres. These in turn, according
at least to the later Pythagoreans, give rise to the four elements, earth, air, fire, and water--a
primary doctrine of medicine and of science derived perhaps from ancient Egypt and surviving
for more than two millennia. The Pythagoreans taught, too, of the existence of an animal soul,
an emanation of the soul of the universe. In all this we may distinguish the germ of that doctrine
of the relation of man and universe, microcosm and macrocosm, which, suppressed as irrelevant
in the Hippocratic works, reappears in the Platonic and especially in the Neoplatonic writings,
and forms a very important dogma in later medicine.

A pupil of Pythagoras and an older contemporary of Empedocles was Alcmaeon of Croton (c. 500
B. C.), who began to construct a positive basis for medical science by the practice of dissection
of animals, and discovered the optic nerves and the Eustachian tubes. He even extended his
researches to Embryology, describing the head of the foetus as the first part to be developed--a
justifiable deduction from appearances. Alcmaeon introduced also the doctrine that health depends
on harmony, disease on discord of the elements within the body. Curiosity as to the distribution
of the vessels was excited by Empedocles and Alcmaeon and led to further dissection, and Alcmaeon's
pupils Acron (c. 480 B. C.) and Pausanias (c. 480 B. C.), and the later Philistion of Lokri,[64]
the contemporary of Plato, all made anatomical investigations.

    [64] For the work of these physicians see especially M. Wellmann,
    Fragmentsammlung der griechischen Aerzte, Bd. I, Berlin, 1901.

The views of Empedocles, and especially his doctrine that regarded the heart as the main site
of the pneuma, though rejected by the Coan school as a whole, were not without influence on
Ionia. Diogenes of Apollonia, the philosopher of pneumatism, a late fifth-century writer who
must have been contemporary with Hippocrates the Great, himself made an investigation of the
blood vessels; and the influence of the same school may be traced in a little work περι καρδιης
{peri kardiês}, On the heart, which is the best anatomical treatise of the Hippocratic Collection.
This work describes the aorta and the pulmonary artery as well as the three valves at the root
of each of the great vessels, and it speaks of experiments to test their validity. It treats
of the pericardium and of the pericardial fluid and perhaps of the musculi papillares, and
contrasts the thickness of the walls of right and left ventricles. The author considers that
the left ventricle is empty of blood--as indeed it is after death--and is the source of the
innate heat and of the absolute intelligence. These views fit in with the doctrines of Empedocles,
so that we may perhaps even venture to regard this work as a surviving document of the Sicilian
school. It is interesting to observe that we have here the first hint of human dissection,
for the author tells us that the hearts of animals may be compared to that of man. The distinction
of having been the first to write on human anatomy, as such, belongs however, probably to a
later writer, Diocles, son of Archidamus of Carystus, who lived in the fourth century B. C.[65]

    [65] Galen, περι ανατομικων εγχειρησεων {peri anatomikôn
    encheirêseôn}, On anatomical preparations, § 1, K. II, p. 282.

We may now turn to the Hippocratic Corpus as a whole. This collection consists of about 60
or 70 separate works, written at various periods and in various states of preservation. At
best only a very small proportion of them can be attributed to Hippocrates, but the discussion
of the general question of the 'genuineness' of the works is now admitted to be futile, for
it is certain that we have no criteria whatever to determine whether or no a particular work
be from the pen of the Father of Medicine, and the most we can ever say of such a treatise
is that it appears to be of his school and in his spirit. Yet among the great gifts of this
collection to our time and to all time are two which stand out above all others, the picture
of a man, and the picture of a method.

The man is Hippocrates himself. Of the actual details of his life we know next to nothing.
His period of greatest activity falls about 400 B. C. He seems to have led a wandering life.
Born of a long line of physicians in the island of Cos, he exerted his activities in Thrace,
Abdera, Delos, the Propontis (Cyzicus), Thasos, Thessaly (notably at Larissa and Meliboea),
Athens, and elsewhere, dying at Larissa in extreme old age about the year 377 B. C. He had
many pupils, among whom were his two sons Thessalus and Dracon, who also undertook journeys,
his son-in-law Polybus, of whose works a fragment has been preserved for us by Aristotle,[66]
together with three other Coans bearing the names Apollonius, Dexippus, and Praxagoras. This
is practically all we know of him with certainty. But though this glimpse is very dim and distant,
yet we cannot exaggerate the influence on the course of medicine and the value for physicians
of all time of the traditional picture that was early formed of him and that may indeed well
be drawn again from the works bearing his name. In beauty and dignity that figure is beyond
praise. Perhaps gaining in stateliness what he loses in clearness, Hippocrates will ever remain
the type of the perfect physician. Learned, observant, humane, with a profound reverence for
the claims of his patients, but an overmastering desire that his experience shall benefit others,
orderly and calm, disturbed only by anxiety to record his knowledge for the use of his brother
physicians and for the relief of suffering, grave, thoughtful and reticent, pure of mind and
master of his passions, this is no overdrawn picture of the Father of Medicine as he appeared
to his contemporaries and successors. It is a figure of character and virtue which has had
an ethical value to medical men of all ages comparable only to the influence exerted on their
followers by the founders of the great religions. If one needed a maxim to place upon the statue
of Hippocrates, none could be found better than that from the book Παραγγελιαι {Parangeliai},
Precepts:

  ην γαρ παρη φιλανθρωπιη παρεστι και φιλοτεχνιη

  {ên gar parê philanthrôpiê paresti kai philotechniê}

  'Where the love of man is, there also is love of the Art.'[67]

    [66] Historia animalium, iii. 3, where it is ascribed to Polybus.
    The same passage is, however, repeated twice in the Hippocratic
    writings, viz. in the περι φυσιος ανθρωπου {peri physios anthrôpou},
    On the nature of man, Littré, vi. 58, and in the περι οστεων
    φυσιος {peri osteôn physios}, On the nature of bones, Littré, ix.
    174.

    [67] Παραγγελιαι {Parangeliai}, § 6.

The numerous busts of him which have reached our time are no portraits. But the best of them
are something much better and more helpful to us than any portrait. They are idealized representations
of the kind of man a physician should be and was in the eyes of the best and wisest of the
Greeks.[68]

    [68] See Fig. 1.

The method of the Hippocratic writers is that known to-day as the 'inductive'. Without the
vast scientific heritage that is in our own hands, with only a comparatively small number of
observations drawn from the Coan and neighbouring schools, surrounded by all manner of bizarre
oriental religions in which no adequate relation of cause and effect was recognized, and above
all constantly urged by the exuberant genius for speculation of that Greek people in the midst
of whom they lived and whose intellectual temptations they shared, they remain nevertheless,
for the most part, patient observers of fact, sceptical of the marvellous and the unverifiable,
hesitating to theorize beyond the data, yet eager always to generalize from actual experience;
calm, faithful, effective servants of the sick. There is almost no type of mental activity
known to us that was not exhibited by the Greeks and cannot be paralleled from their writings;
but careful and constant return to verification from experience, expressed in a record of actual
observations--the habitual method adopted in modern scientific departments--is rare among them
except in these early medical authors.

The spirit of their practice cannot be better illustrated than by the words of the so-called
'Hippocratic oath'. That document, though of late date in its present form, throws a flood
of light on the ethics of Greek medicine.

     'I swear by Apollo the physician and Asclepius and Hygieia and
     Panacea, invoking all the gods and goddesses to be my witnesses,
     that I will fulfil this Oath and this written covenant to the best
     of my power and of my judgment.

     'I will look upon him who shall have taught me this art even as on
     mine own parents; I will share with him my substance, and supply
     his necessities if he be in need; I will regard his offspring even
     as my own brethren, and will teach them this art, if they desire to
     learn it, without fee or covenant. I will impart it by precept, by
     lecture and by all other manner of teaching, not only to my own
     sons but also to the sons of him who has taught me, and to
     disciples bound by covenant and oath according to the law of the
     physicians, but to none other.

     'The regimen I adopt shall be for the benefit of the patients to
     the best of my power and judgment, not for their injury or for any
     wrongful purpose. I will not give a deadly drug to any one, though
     it be asked of me, nor will I lead the way in such counsel; and
     likewise I will not give a woman a pessary to procure abortion. But
     I will keep my life and my art in purity and holiness. Whatsoever
     house I enter, I will enter for the benefit of the sick, refraining
     from all voluntary wrongdoing and corruption, especially seduction
     of male or female, bond or free. Whatsoever things I see or hear
     concerning the life of men, in my attendance on the sick or even
     apart from my attendance, which ought not to be blabbed abroad, I
     will keep silence on them, counting such things to be as religious
     secrets.

     'If I fulfil this oath and confound it not, be it mine to enjoy
     life and art alike, with good repute among all men for all time to
     come; but may the contrary befall me if I transgress and violate my
     oath.'[69]

    [69] Translation by Professor Arthur Platt.

Respected equally throughout the ages by Arab, Jew, and Christian, the oath remains the watchword
of the profession of medicine.[70] The ethical value of such a declaration could not escape
the attention even of a Byzantine formalist, and it is interesting to observe that in our oldest
Greek manuscript of the Hippocratic text, dating from the tenth century, this magnificent passage
is headed by the words 'from the oath of Hippocrates according as it may be sworn by a Christian.'[71]

    [70] It must, however, be admitted that in the Hippocratic
    collection are breaches of the oath, e. g. in the induction of
    abortion related in περι φυσιος παιδιου {peri physios paidiou}.
    There is evidence, however, that the author of this work was not a
    medical practitioner.

    [71] Rome Urbinas 64, fo. 116.

When we examine the Hippocratic corpus more closely, we discern that not only are the treatises
by many hands, but there is not even a uniform opinion and doctrine running through them. This
is well brought out by some of the more famous of the phrases of this remarkable collection.
Thus a well-known passage from the Airs, Waters, and Places tells us that the Scythians attribute
a certain physical disability to a god, 'but it appears to me', says the author, 'that these
affections are just as much divine as are all others and that no disease is either more divine
or more human than another, but that all are equally divine, for each of them has its own nature,
and none of them arise without a natural cause.' But, on the other hand, the author of the
great work on Prognostics advises us that when the physician is called in he must seek to ascertain
the nature of the affections that he is treating, and especially 'if there be anything divine
in the disease, and to learn a foreknowledge of this also.'[72] We may note too that this sentence
almost immediately precedes what is perhaps the most famous of all the Hippocratic sentences,
the description of what has since been termed the Hippocratic facies. This wonderful description
of the signs of death may be given as an illustration of the habitual attitude of the Hippocratic
school towards prognosis and of the very careful way in which they noted details:

     'He [the physician] should observe thus in acute diseases: first,
     the countenance of the patient, if it be like to those who are in
     health, and especially if it be like itself, for this would be the
     best; but the more unlike to this, the worse it is; such would be
     these: sharp nose, hollow eyes, collapsed temples; ears cold,
     contracted, and their lobes turned out; skin about the forehead
     rough, distended, and parched; the colour of the whole face
     greenish or dusky. If the countenance be so at the beginning of
     the disease, and if this cannot be accounted for from the other
     symptoms, inquiry must be made whether he has passed a sleepless
     night; whether his bowels have been very loose; or whether he is
     suffering from hunger; and if any of these be admitted the danger
     may be reckoned as less; and it may be judged in the course of a
     day and night if the appearance of the countenance proceed from
     these. But if none of these be said to exist, and the symptoms do
     not subside in that time, be it known for certain that death is at
     hand.'[73]

    [72] Kühlewein, i. 79, regards this as an interpolated passage.

    [73] Littré, ii. 112; Kühlewein, i. 79. The texts vary: Kühlewein is
    followed except in the last sentence.

Again, in the work On the Art [of Medicine] we read: 'I hold it to be physicianly to abstain
from treating those who are overwhelmed by disease',[74] a prudent if inhumane procedure among
a people who might regard the doctor's powers as partaking of the nature of magic, and perhaps
a wise course to follow at this day in some places not very far from Cos. Yet in the book On
Diseases we are advised even in the presence of an incurable disease 'to give relief with such
treatment as is possible'.[75]

    [74] Περι τεχνης {Peri technês}, § 3.

    [75] Περι νουσων α' {Peri nousôn a'}, § 6.

Furthermore, works by authors of the Hippocratic school stand sometimes in a position of direct
controversy with each other. Thus in the treatise On the Heart an experiment is set forth which
is held to prove that a part at least of imbibed fluid passes into the cavity of the lung and
thence to the parts of the body, a popular error in antiquity which recurs in Plato's Timaeus.
This view, however, is specifically held to be fallacious by the author of the work On Diseases,
who is supported by a polemical section in the surviving Menon fragment.

Passages like these have convinced all students that we have to deal in this collection with
a variety of works written at different dates by different authors and under different conditions,
a state that may be well understood when we reflect that among the Greeks medicine was a progressive
study for a far longer period of time than has yet been the case in the Western world. An account
of such a collection can therefore only be given in the most general fashion. The system or
systems of medicine that we shall thus attempt to describe was in vogue up to the Alexandrian
period, that is, to the beginning of the third century B. C.

Anatomy and physiology, the basis of our modern system, was still a very weak point in the
knowledge of the pre-Alexandrians. The surface form of the body was intimately studied in connexion
especially with fractures, but there is no evidence in the literature of the period of any
closer acquaintance with human anatomical structure.[76] The same fact is well borne out by
Greek Art, for in its noblest period the artist betrays no evidence of assistance derived from
anatomization. Such evidence is not found until we come to sculpture of Alexandrian date, when
the somewhat strained attitudes and exaggerated musculature of certain works of the school
of Pergamon suggest that the artist derived hints, if not direct information, from anatomists
who, we know, were active at that time. It is not improbable, however, that separate bones,
if not complete skeletons, were commonly studied earlier, for the surgical works of the Hippocratic
collection, and especially those on fractures and dislocations, give evidence of a knowledge
of the relations of bones to each other and of their natural position in the body which could
not be obtained, or only obtained with greatest difficulty, without this aid.

    [76] A reference to dissection in the περι αρθρων {peri arthrôn},
    On the joints, § 1, appears to the present writer to be of
    Alexandrian date.

There are in the Hippocratic works a certain number of comparisons between human and animal
structures that would have been made possible by surgical operations and occasional accidents.
The view has been put forward that some anatomical knowledge was derived through the practice
of augury from the entrails of sacrificial animals. It appears, however, improbable that a
system so scientific and so little related to temple practice would have had much to learn
from these sources, and, moreover, since we know that animals were actually dissected as early
as the time of Alcmaeon it would be unnecessary to invoke the aid of the priests. The unknown
author of the περι τοπων των κατα ανθρωπον {peri topôn tôn kata anthrôpon}, On the sites of
[diseases] in man, a work written about 400 B. C., declares indeed that 'physical structure
is the basis of medicine', but the formal treatises on anatomy that we possess from Hippocratic
times give the general anatomical standard of the corpus, and it is a very disappointing one.
The tract On Anatomy, though probably of much later date (perhaps c. 330 B. C.), is inferior
even to the treatise On the Heart (perhaps of about 400 B. C.).

