THE CORRESPONDENCE OF THOMAS CARLYLE AND RALPH WALDO EMERSON

1834-1872

VOLUME I.

"To my friend I write a letter, and from him I receive a letter. It is a spiritual gift, worthy
of him to give, and of me to receive."--Emerson

"What the writer did actually mean, the thing he then thought of, the thing he then was."--Carlyle

EDITORIAL NOTE

The  trust of editing the following Correspondence, committed to me several years since by
the writers, has been of easy fulfilment.  The whole Correspondence, so far as it is known
to exist, is here printed, with the exception of a few notes of introduction, and one or two
essentially duplicate letters.  I cannot but hope that some of the letters now missing may
hereafter come to light.

In printing, a dash has been substituted here and there for a proper name, and some passages,
mostly relating to details of business transactions, have been omitted.  These omissions are
distinctly designated.  The punctuation and orthography of the original letters have been in
the main exactly followed.  I have thought best to print much concerning dealings with publishers,
as illustrative of the material conditions of literature during the middle of the century,
as well as of the relations of the two friends.  The notes in the two volumes are mine.

My best thanks and those of the readers of this Correspondence
are due to Mr. Moncure D. Conway, for his energetic and
successful effort to recover some of Emerson's early letters
which had fallen into strange hands.
                       --Charles Eliot Norton

Cambridge, Massachusetts January 29, 1883

---------

NOTE TO REVISED EDITION

The hope that some of the letters missing from it when this correspondence was first published
might come to light, has been fulfilled by the recovery of thirteen letters of Carlyle, and
of four of Emerson.  Besides these, the rough drafts of one or two of Emerson's letters, of
which the copies sent have gone astray, have been found.  Comparatively few gaps in the Correspondence
remain to be filled.

The letters and drafts of letters now first printed are those numbered as follows:--

Vol. I.
   XXXVI.  Carlyle
   XLI.    Emerson
   XLII.   Carlyle
   XLVI.    "
   XLVII.   "
   LXVIII.  "

Vol. II.
   C.     Emerson
   CIV.   Carlyle
   CV.       "
   CVI.      "
   CVII.     "
   CVIII.    "
   CIX.      "
   CXII.     "
   CXVI.     "
   CXLIX.  Emerson
   CLII.     "
   CLXV.     "
   CLXXXVI.  "

Emerson's letter of 1 May, 1859 (CLXIV.), of which only fragments were printed in the former
edition, is now printed complete, and the extract from his Diary accompanying it appears in
the form in which it seems to have been sent to Carlyle.

                                      --C.E.N.

December 31, 1884

-----------

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

Introduction.  Emerson's early recognition of Carlyle's genius. --His visit at Craigenputtock,
in 1833.--Extracts concerning it from letter of Carlyle, from letter of Emerson, and from English
Traits.

I. Emerson.  Boston, 14 May, 1834.  First acquaintance with Carlyle's writings.--Visit to Craigenputtock.--Sartor
Resartus, its contents, its diction.--Gift of Webster's Speeches and Sampson Reed's Growth
of the Mind.

II. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 12 August, 1834.  Significance of Emerson's gift and visit.--Sampson
Reed.--Webster.-- Teufelsdrockh, its sorry reception.--Removal to London.--Article on the Diamond
Necklace.--Preparation for book on the French Revolution.--Death of Coleridge.

III. Emerson.  Concord, 20 November, 1834.  Death of his brother Edward.--Consolation in Carlyle's
friendship.--Pleasure in receiving stitched copy of Teufelsdrockh.--Goethe.-- Swedenborgianism.--Of
himself.--Hope of Carlyle's coming to America.--Gift of various publications.

IV. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 3 February, 1835.  Acknowledgments and inquiries.--Sympathy for death
of Edward Emerson.--Unitarianism. --Emerson's position and pursuits.--Goethe.-Volume of French
Revolution finished.--Condition of literature.--Lecturing in America.--Mrs. Austin.

V. Emerson.  Concord, 12 March, 1835.  Appreciation of Sartor. --Dr. Channing.--Prospect of
Carlyle's visit to America.--His own approaching marriage.--Plan of a journal of Philosophy
in Boston.--Encouragement of Carlyle.

VI. Emerson.  Concord, 30 April, 1835.  Apathy of English public toward Carlyle.--Hope of his
visit to America.--Lectures and lecturers in Boston.--Estimate of receipts and expenses.--Esteem
of Carlyle in America.

VII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 13 May, 1835.  Emerson's marriage. --Astonishing reception of Teufelsdrockh
in New England. --Boston Transcendentalism.--Destruction of manuscript of first volume of French
Revolution.--Result of a year's life in London.--Wordsworth.--Southey.

VIII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 27 June, 1835.  Visit to America questionable.--John Carlyle.--Tired
out with rewriting French Revolution.--A London rout.--O'Connell.--Longfellow.--Emerson and
Unitarianism.

IX. Emerson.  Concord, 7 October, 1835.  Mrs. Child.--Public addresses.--Marriage.--Destruction
of manuscript of French Revolution.--Notice of Sartor in North American Review. --Politics.--Charles
Emerson.

X. Emerson.  Concord, 8 April, 1836.  Concern at Carlyle's silence.--American reprint of Sartor.--Carlyle's
projected visit.--Lecturing in New England.

XI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 29 April, 1836.  Weariness over French Revolution.--Visit to Scotland.--Charm
of London.--Letter from James Freeman Clarke.--Article on Sartor in North American Review.--Quatrain
from Voss.

XII. Emerson.  Concord, 17 September,1836.  Death of Charles Emerson.--Solicitude concerning
Carlyle.--Urgency to him to come to Concord.--Sends Nature to him.--Reflections.

XIII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 5 November, 1836.  Charles Emerson's death.--Concord.--His own condition.--French
Revolution almost ended.--Character of the book.--Weariness.--London and its people.--Plans
for rest.--John Sterling.--Articles on Mirabeau and the Diamond Necklace.--Mill's London Review.--Thanks
for American Teufelsdrockh.--Mrs. Carlyle.--Might and Right, Canst and Shalt.--Books about Goethe.

XIV. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 13 February, 1837.  Teufelsdrockh in America and England.--Nature.--Miss
Martineau on Emerson. --Mammon.--Completion of French Revolution.--Scheme of Lecturing in London.--America
fading into the background.

XV. Emerson.  Concord, 31 March, 1837.  Receipt of the Mirabeau and Diamond Necklace.--Their
substance and style.--Proof-sheet of French Revolution.--Society in America.--Renewed invitation.
--Mrs. Carlyle.--His son Waldo.--Bronson Alcott.--Second edition of Sartor.

XVI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 1 June, 1837.  Lectures on German Literature.--Copy of French Revolution
sent.--Review of himself in Christian Examiner.--George Ripley.--Miss Martineau and her book
on America.--Plans.

XVII. Emerson.  Concord, 13 September, 1837.  The French Revolution.--Sale of Carlyle's books.--Lectures.

XVIII. Emerson.  Concord, 2 November, 1837.  Introduction given to Charles Sumner.--Reprint
of French Revolution.--Lectures.

XIX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 8 December, 1837.  Visit to Scotland. --Mrs. Carlyle's ill-health.--His
own need of rest.--John Sterling; his regard for Emerson.--Emerson's Oration on the American
Scholar.--Proposed collection of his own Miscellanies.

XX. Emerson.  Concord, 9 February, 1838.  Lectures on Human Culture.--Carlyle's praise of his
Oration.--John Sterling. --Reprint of French Revolution.--Profits from it.--American selection
and edition of Carlyle's Miscellanies.

XXI. Emerson.  Boston, 12 March, 1838.  Sale of French Revolution.--Arrangements concerning
American edition of Miscellanies.

XXII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 16 March, 1838.  Prospect of cash from Yankee-land.--Poverty.--American
and English reprints of Miscellanies.--Sterling's Crystals from a Cavern.--Miss Martineau on
Emerson.--Lectures.--Plans.

XXIII. Emerson.  Concord, 10 May, 1838.  American edition of Miscellanies.--Invitation to Concord.--His
means and mode of life.--Sterling.--Miss Martineau.--Carlyle's poverty.

XXIV. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 15 June, 1838.  American French Revolution.--London edition of Teufelsdrockh.--Miscellanies.
--Lectures, their money result.--Plans.--Emerson's Oration. --Mrs. Child's Philothea.

XXV. Emerson.  Boston, 30 July, 1838.  Encloses bill for L50. --Miscellanies published.

XXVI. Emerson.  Concord, 6 August, 1838.  Publication of Miscellanies.--Two more volumes proposed.--Orations
at Theological School, Cambridge, and at Dartmouth College.--Carlyle desired in America.

XXVII. Carlyle.  Scotsbrig, Ecclefechan, 25 September, 1838. Visit to his Mother.--Remittance
from Emerson of L50.-- Miscellanies again.--Another Course of Lectures.--Sterling.-- Miss Martineau.

XXVIII. Emerson.  Concord, 17 October, 1838.  Business.--Outcry against address to Divinity
College.--Injury to Carlyle's repute in America from association with him.--Article in Quarterly
on German Religious Writers.--Sterling.

XXIX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 7 November, 1838.  Emerson's letters.-- Dyspepsia.--Use of money from
America.--Arrangements concerning publication of Miscellanies.--Emerson's Orations.--Tempest
in a washbowl concerning Divinity School Address.--John Carlyle-- Postscript by Mrs. Carlyle.

XXX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 15 November, 1838.  Arrangements concerning Miscellanies.--Employments,
outlooks.--Concord not forgotten, but Emerson to come first to England.--John Carlyle. --Miss
Martineau and her books.

XXXI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 2 December, 1838.  Arrival of American reprint of Miscellanies.--English
and American bookselling.-- Proposed second edition of French Revolution.--Reading Horace Walpole.--Sumner.--Dartmouth
Oration.--Sterling.--Dwight's German Translations.

XXXII. Emerson.  Concord, 13 January, 1839.  Business.-- Remittance of L100.--Lectures on Human
Life.--Dr. Carlyle.

XXXIII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 8 February, 1839.  Acknowledgment of remittance.--Arrangements for
new edition of French Revolution.--London.--Wish for quiet.--Ill-health.--Suggestion of writing
on Cromwell.--Mr. Joseph Coolidge.--Divinity School Address.--Mrs. Carlyle.--Gladstone cites
from Emerson in his Church and State.

XXXIV. Emerson.  Concord, 15 March, 1839.  Account of sales.-- Second series of Miscellanies.--Ill
wind raised by Address blown over.--Lectures.--Birth of daughter.--The Onyx Ring. --Alcott.

XXXV. Emerson.  Concord, 19 March, 1839.  Need of copy to fill out second series of Miscellanies.--John
S. Dwight.

XXXVI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 13 April, 1839.  Solicitude on account of Emerson's silence.--Gift
to Mrs. Emerson.--Book business. --New edition of French Revolution.--New lectures.--Better
circumstances, better health.--Arthur Buller urges a visit to America.--Milnes.--Emerson's
growing popularity.

XXXVII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 17 April, 1839.  Nothing in manuscript fit for Miscellanies.--Essay
on Varnhagen.--Translation of Goethe's Mahrchen.--Cruthers and Jonson.--Dwight's book. --Lectures.--Discontent
among working people.

XXXVIII. Emerson.  Boston, 20 April, 1839.  Proposals of publishers concerning French Revolution.--Introduction
of Miss Sedgwick.

XXXIX. Emerson.  Concord, 25 April, 1839.  Account.--Sales of books.

XL. Emerson.  Concord, 28 April, 1839.  Proposals of publishers and accounts.

XLI. Emerson.  Concord, 15 May, 1839.  Arrangements with publishers.--Matter for completion
of fourth volume of Miscellanies.--Stearns Wheelers faithful labor.--Arthur Buller's good witnessing.--Plans
for Carlyle's visit to America. --Milnes.--Copy of Nature for him.

XLII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 29 May, 1839.  Lectures happily over.-- Sansculottism.--Horse must
be had.--Extempore speaking an art.-- Must lecture in America or write a book.--Wordsworth.--Sterling.
--Messages.

XLIII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 24 June, 1839.  Delay in arrival of Miscellanies.--Custom-house rapacities.--Accounts..--No
longer poor.--Emerson's work.--Miss Sedgwick.--Daniel Webster.--Proposed visit to Scotland.--Sinking
of the Vengeur.

XLIV. Emerson.  Concord, 4 July, 1839.  Proof-sheet of new edition of French Revolution received.--Gift
to Mrs. Emerson of engraving of Guido's Aurora.--Publishers' accounts.--Sterling.-- Occupations.--Margaret
Fuller.

XLV. Emerson.  Concord, 8 August, 1839.  Miscellanies sent. --Daniel Webster.--Alcott.--Thoreau.

XLVI. Carlyle.  Scotsbrig, Ecclefechan, 4 September, 1839. Rusticating.--Arrival of Miscellanies.--Errata.--Reprint
of Wilhelm Meister.--Estimate of the book.--Copies of French Revolution sent.--Eager expectation
of Emerson's book.-- Sterling.--Plans.

XLVII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 8 December, 1839.  Long silence.--Stay in Scotland.--Chartism.--Reprint
of Miscellanies.--Stearns Wheeler.--Wilhelm Meister.--Boston steamers.--Speculations about
Hegira into New England.--Visitor from America who had never seen Emerson.--Miss Martineau.--Silence
and speech.-- Sterling.--Southey.--No longer desperately poor.

XLVIII. Emerson.  Concord, 12 December, 1839.  Copies of French Revolution arrived.--Lectures
on the Present Age.--Letter from Sterling, his paper on Carlyle.--Friends.

XLIX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 6 January, 1840.  Chartism.-- Sterling.--Monckton Milnes, paper by
him on Emerson.

L. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 17 January, 1840.  Export and import of books.--New editions.--Books
sent to Emerson.--Cromwell as a subject for writing.--No appetite for lecturing.--Madame Necker
on Emerson.

LI. Emerson.  New York, 18 March, 1840.  New York.--Loss of faith on entering cities.--Margaret
Fuller to edit a journal.--Lectures on the Present Age.--His children.--Renewed invitation.

LII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 1 April, 1840.  Count D'Orsay, his portrait of Carlyle.--Wages for
books, due to Emerson.--Milnes's review.--Heraud.--Landor.--Lectures in prospect on Heroes
and Hero-worship.

LIII. Emerson.  Concord, 21 April, 1840.  Introduction of Mr. Grinnell.--Chartism.--Reprint
of it.--At work on a book.-- Booksellers' accounts.--The Dial.--Alcott.

LIV. Emerson.  Concord, 30 June, 1840.  Wilhelm Meister received.--Landor.--Letter to Milnes.--Lithograph
of Concord. --The Dial, No. 1.

LV. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 2 July, 1840.  Bibliopoliana.--Lectures about Great Men.--Lecturing
in America.--Milnes and his Poems. --Controversial volume from Ripley.

LVI. Emerson.  Concord, 30 August, 1840.  Booksellers' accounts. --Faith cold concerning Carlyle's
coming to America.-- Transcendentalism and The Dial.--Social problems.--Character of his writing.--Charles
Sumner.

LVII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 26 September, 1840.  Not to go to America for the present.--Heroes
and Hero-Worship.--Journey on horseback.--Reading on Cromwell.--Dial No. 1.--Puseyism.--Dr.
Sewell on Carlyle.--Landor.--Sterling.

LVIII. Emerson.  Concord, 30 October, 1840.  Booksellers' accounts.--Projects of social reform.--Studies
unproductive. --Hopes to print a book of essays.

LIX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 9 December, 1840.  Booksellers' carelessness and accounts.--Puseyism.--Dial
No. 2.--Goethe. --Miss Martineau's Hour and Man.--Working in Cromwellism.

LX. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 21 February, 1841.  To Mrs. Emerson.-- London transmuted by her alchemy.--Hope
of seeing Concord. --Miss Martineau.--Toussaint l'Ouverture.--Sheets of Heroes and Hero-worship
sent to Emerson.

LXI. Emerson.  Concord, 28 February, 1841.  Accounts.--Essays soon to appear.--Lecture on Reform.

LXII. Emerson.  Boston, 30 April, 1841.  Remittance of L100.-- Accounts.--Piratical reprint
of Heroes and Hero-worship.-- Dial No. 4.

LXIII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 8 May, 1841.  Visit to Milnes.--To his Mother.--Emerson's Essays.--His
own condition.

LXIV. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 21 May, 1841.  Acknowledgment of remittance of L100.--Unauthorized
American reprint of Heroes and Hero-worship.--Improvement in circumstances.--Desire for solitude.--Article
on Emerson in Fraser's Magazine.

LXV. Emerson.  Concord, 30 May, 1841.  Accounts.--Book by Jones Very.--Heroes and Hero-worship.--Thoreau.

LXVI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 25 June, 1841.  Proposed stay at Annan. --Motives for it.--London
reprint of Emerson's Essays.--Rio.

LXVII. Emerson.  Concord, 31 July, 1841.  London reprint of Essays.--Carlyle in his own land.--Writing
an oration.

LXVIII. Carlyle.  Newby, Annan, Scotland, 18 August, 1841. Speedy receipt of letter.--Stay
in Scotland.--Seclusion and sadness.--Reprint of Emerson's Essays.--Shipwreck.

LXIX. Emerson.  Concord, 30 October, 1841.  Pleasure in English reprint of Essays.--Lectures
on the Times.--Opportunities of the Lecture-room.--Accounts.

LXX. Emerson.  Concord, 14 November, 1841.  Remittance of L40.-- His banker.--Gambardella.--Preparation
for lectures on the Times.

LXXI. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 19 November, 1841.  Gambardella.-- Lawrence's portrait.--Emerson's
Essays in England.--Address at Waterville College.--The Dial.--Emerson's criticism on Landor.

LXXII. Carlyle.  Chelsea, 6 December, 1841.  Acknowledgment of remittance of L40.--American
funds.--Landor.--Emerson's Lectures.

LXXIII. Emerson.  New York, 28 February, 1842.  Remittance of L48.--American investments.--Death
of his son.--Alcott going to England.

LXXIV. Carlyle.  Templand, 28 March, 1842.  Sympathy, with Emerson.--Death of Mrs. Carlyle's
mother.--At Templand to settle affairs.--Life there.--A book on Cromwell begun.

LXXV. Emerson.  Concord, 31 March, 1842.  Bereavement.--Alcott going to England.--Editorship
of Dial.--Mr. Henry Lee.-- Lectures in New York.

---------------------

CORRESPONDENCE OF CARLYLE AND EMERSON

At the beginning of his "English Traits," Mr. Emerson, writing of his visit to England in 1833,
when he was thirty years old, says that it was mainly the attraction of three or four writers,
of whom Carlyle was one, that had led him to Europe.  Carlyle's name was not then generally
known, and it illustrates Emerson's mental attitude that he should have thus early recognized
his genius, and felt sympathy with it.

The decade from 1820 to 1830 was a period of unusual dulness in English thought and imagination.
All the great literary reputations belonged to the beginning of the century, Byron, Scott,
Wordsworth, Coleridge, Shelley, Keats, had said their say. The intellectual life of the new
generation had not yet found expression.  But toward the end of this time a series of articles,
mostly on German literature, appearing in the Edinburgh and in the Foreign Quarterly Review,
an essay on Burns, another on Voltaire, still more a paper entitled "Characteristics," displayed
the hand of a master, and a spirit in full sympathy with the hitherto unexpressed tendencies
and aspirations of its time, and capable of giving them expression.  Here was a writer whose
convictions were based upon principles, and whose words stood for realities.  His power was
slowly acknowledged.  As yet Carlyle had received hardly a token of recognition from his contemporaries.

He was living solitary, poor, independent, in "desperate hope," at Craigenputtock.  On August
24,1833, he makes entry in his Journal as follows:  "I am left here the solitariest, stranded,
most helpless creature that I have been for many years..... Nobody asks me to work at articles.
The thing I want to write is quite other than an article... In all times there is a word which
spoken to men;  to the actual generation of men, would thrill their inmost soul.  But the way
to find that word?  The way to speak it when found?"  The next entry in his Journal shows that
Carlyle had found the word.  It is the name "Ralph Waldo Emerson," the record of Emerson's
unexpected visit.  "I shall never forget the visitor," wrote Mrs. Carlyle, long afterwards,
"who years ago, in the Desert, descended on us, out of the clouds as it were, and made one
day there look like enchantment for us, and left me weeping that it was only one day."

At the time of this memorable visit Emerson was morally not less solitary than Carlyle;  he
was still less known;  his name had been unheard by his host in the desert.  But his voice
was soon to become also the voice of a leader.  With temperaments sharply contrasted, with
traditions, inheritances, and circumstances radically different, with views of life and of
the universe widely at variance, the souls of these two young men were yet in sympathy, for
their characters were based upon the same foundation of principle.  In their independence and
their sincerity they were alike;  they were united in their faith in spiritual truth, and their
reverence for it.  Their modes of thought of expression were not merely dissimilar, but divergent,
and yet, though parted by an ever widening cleft of difference, they knew, as Carlyle said,
that beneath it "the rock-strata, miles deep, united again, and their two souls were at one"

Two days after Emerson's visit Carlyle wrote to his mother:--

"Three little happinesses have befallen us:  first, a piano-tuner, procured for five shillings
and sixpence, has been here, entirely reforming the piano, so that I can hear a little music
now, which does me no little good.  Secondly, Major Irving, of Gribton, who used at this season
of the year to live and shoot at Craigenvey, came in one day to us, and after some clatter
offered us a rent of five pounds for the right to shoot here, and even tabled the cash that
moment, and would not pocket it again.  Jane says it is the first journey since Noah's Deluge
undertaken to Craigenputtock for such a purpose.  In any case, we had a cheerful day from it,
and ought to be thankful."

On the next Sunday, a week after his visit, Emerson wrote the following account of it to his
friend, Mr. Alexander Ireland.

"I found him one of the most simple and frank of men, and became acquainted with him at once.
We walked over several miles of hills, and talked upon all the great questions that interest
us most.  The comfort of meeting a man is that he speaks sincerely; that he feels himself to
be so rich, that he is above the meanness of pretending to knowledge which he has not, and
Carlyle does not pretend to have solved the great problems, but rather to be an observer of
their solution as it goes forward in the world. I asked him at what religious development the
concluding passage in his piece in the Edinburgh Review upon German literature (say five years
ago), and some passages in the piece called 'Characteristics,' pointed.  He replied that he
was not competent to state even to himself,--he waited rather to see.  My own feeling was that
I had met with men of far less power who had got greater insight into religious truth.  He
is, as you might guess from his papers, the most catholic of philosophers;  he forgives and
loves everybody, and wishes each to struggle on in his own place and arrive at his own ends.
But his respect for eminent men, or rather his scale of eminence, is about the reverse of the
popular scale.  Scott, Mackintosh, Jeffrey, Gibbon,--even Bacon, --are no heroes of his;  stranger
yet, he hardly admires Socrates, the glory of the Greek world;  but Burns, and Samuel Johnson,
and Mirabeau, he said interested him, and I suppose whoever else has given himself with all
his heart to a leading instinct, and has not calculated too much.  But I cannot think of sketching
even his opinions, or repeating his conversations here.  I will cheerfully do it when you visit
me here in America.  He talks finely, seems to love the broad Scotch, and I loved him very
much at once.  I am afraid he finds his entire solitude tedious, but I could not help congratulating
him upon his treasure in his wife, and I hope he will not leave the moors;  't is so much better
for a man of letters to nurse himself in seclusion than to be filed down to the common level
by the compliances and imitations of city society." *

------------- * Ralph Waldo Emerson. Recollections of his Visits to England By Alexander Ireland.
London, 1882, p. 58. ------------

Twenty-three years later, in his "English Traits," Emerson once more describes his visit, and
tells of his impressions of Carlyle.

"From Edinburgh I went to the Highlands.

Such is the record of the beginnings of the friendship between Carlyle and Emerson.  What place
this friendship held in the lives of both, the following Correspondence shows.

---------

I.  Emerson to Carlyle

Boston, Massachusetts, 14 May, 1884

My Dear Sir,--There are some purposes we delay long to execute simply because we have them
more at heart than others, and such an one has been for many weeks, I may say months, my design
of writing you an epistle.

Some chance wind of Fame blew your name to me, perhaps two years ago, as the author of papers
which I had already distinguished (as indeed it was very easy to do) from the mass of English
periodical criticism as by far the most original and profound essays of the day,--the works
of a man of Faith as well as Intellect, sportive as well as learned, and who, belonging to
the despairing and deriding class of philosophers, was not ashamed to hope and to speak sincerely.
Like somebody in Wilhelm Meister, I said:  This person has come under obligations to me and
to all whom he has enlightened.  He knows not how deeply I should grieve at his fall, if, in
that exposed England where genius always hears the Devil's whisper, "All these kingdoms will
I give thee," his virtue also should be an initial growth put off with age. When therefore
I found myself in Europe, I went to your house only to say, "Faint not,--the word you utter
is heard, though in the ends of the earth and by humblest men;  it works, prevails." Drawn
by strong regard to one of my teachers I went to see his person, and as he might say his environment
at Craigenputtock. Yet it was to fulfil my duty, finish my mission, not with much hope of gratifying
him,--in the spirit of "If I love you, what is that to you?"  Well, it happened to me that
I was delighted with my visit, justified to myself in my respect, and many a time upon the
sea in my homeward voyage I remembered with joy the favored condition of my lonely philosopher,
his happiest wedlock, his fortunate temper, his steadfast simplicity, his all means of happiness;--not
that I had the remotest hope that he should so far depart from his theories as to expect happiness.
On my arrival at home I rehearsed to several attentive ears what I had seen and heard, and
they with joy received it.

In Liverpool I wrote to Mr. Fraser to send me Magazine, and I have now received four numbers
of the Sartor Resartus, for whose light thanks evermore.  I am glad that one living scholar
is self-centred, and will be true to himself though none ever were before;  who, as Montaigne
says, "puts his ear close by himself, and holds his breath and listens."  And none can be offended
with the self-subsistency of one so catholic and jocund. And 't is good to have a new eye inspect
our mouldy social forms, our politics, and schools, and religion.  I say our, for it cannot
have escaped you that a lecture upon these topics written for England may be read to America.
Evermore thanks for the brave stand you have made for Spiritualism in these writings. But has
literature any parallel to the oddity of the vehicle chosen to convey this treasure?  I delight
in the contents;  the form, which my defective apprehension for a joke makes me not appreciate,
I leave to your merry discretion.  And yet did ever wise and philanthropic author use so defying
a diction?  As if society were not sufficiently shy of truth without providing it beforehand
with an objection to the form.  Can it be that this humor proceeds from a despair of finding
a contemporary audience, and so the Prophet feels at liberty to utter his message in droll
sounds.  Did you not tell me, Mr. Thomas Carlyle, sitting upon one of your broad hills, that
it was Jesus Christ built Dunscore Kirk yonder?  If you love such sequences, then admit, as
you will, that no poet is sent into the world before his time;  that all the departed thinkers
and actors have paved your way;  that (at least when you surrender yourself) nations and ages
do guide your pen, yes, and common goose-quills as well as your diamond graver.  Believe then
that harp and ear are formed by one revolution of the wheel;  that men are waiting to hear
your epical song;  and so be pleased to skip those excursive involved glees, and give us the
simple air, without the volley of variations.  At least in some of your prefaces you should
give us the theory of your rhetoric.  I comprehend not why you should lavish in that spendthrift
style of yours celestial truths. Bacon and Plato have something too solid to say than that
they can afford to be humorists.  You are dispensing that which is rarest, namely, the simplest
truths,--truths which lie next to consciousness, and which only the Platos and Goethes perceive.
I look for the hour with impatience when the vehicle will be worthy of the spirit,--when the
word will be as simple, and so as resistless, as the thought,--and, in short, when your words
will be one with things.  I have no hope that you will find suddenly a large audience.  Says
not the sarcasm, "Truth hath the plague in his house"?  Yet all men are potentially (as Mr.
Coleridge would say) your audience, and if you will not in very Mephistophelism repel and defy
them, shall be actually;* and whatever the great or the small may say about the charm of diabolism,
a true and majestic genius can afford to despise it.

------------ * This year, 1882, seventy thousand copies of a sixpenny edition of Sartor Resartus
have been sold. -------------

I venture to amuse you with this homiletic criticism because it is the sense of uncritical
truth seekers, to whom you are no more than Hecuba, whose instincts assure them that there
is Wisdom in this grotesque Teutonic apocalyptic strain of yours, but that 't is hence hindered
in its effect.  And though with all my heart I would stand well with my Poet, yet if I offend
I shall quietly retreat into my Universal relations, wherefrom I affectionately espy you as
a man, myself as another.

And yet before I come to the end of my letter I may repent of my temerity and unsay my charge.
For are not all our circlets of will as so many little eddies rounded in by the great Circle
of Necessity, and could the Truth-speaker, perhaps now the best Thinker of the Saxon race,
have written otherwise?  And must not we say that Drunkenness is a virtue rather than that
Cato has erred?

I wish I could gratify you with any pleasing news of the regeneration, education, prospects,
of man in this continent. But your philanthropy is so patient, so far-sighted, that present
evils give you less solicitude.  In the last six years government in the United States has
been fast becoming a job, like great charities.  A most unfit person in the Presidency has
been doing the worst things;  and the worse he grew, the more popular.  Now things seem to
mend.  Webster, a good man and as strong as if he were a sinner, begins to find himself the
centre of a great and enlarging party and his eloquence incarnated and enacted by them; yet
men dare not hope that the majority shall be suddenly unseated.  I send herewith a volume of
Webster's that you may see his speech on Foot's Resolutions, a speech which the Americans have
never done   praising.  I have great doubts whether the book reaches you, as I know not my
agents.  I shall put with it the little book of my Swedenborgian druggist,* of whom I told
you. And if, which is hardly to be hoped, any good book should be thrown out of our vortex
of trade and politics, I shall not fail to give it the same direction.

-------------- * Observations on the Growth of the Mind, by Sampson Reed, first published in
1825.  A fifth edition of this thoughtful little treatise was published in 1865.  Mr. Reed
was a graduate of Harvard College in 1818;  he died in 1880, at the age of eighty. ---------------

I need not tell you, my dear sir, what pleasure a letter from you would give me when you have
a few moments to spare to so remote a friend.  If any word in my letter should provoke you
to a reply, I shall rejoice in my sauciness.  I am spending the summer in the country, but
my address is Boston, care of Barnard, Adams, & Co. Care of O. Rich, London.  Please do make
my affectionate respects to Mrs. Carlyle, whose kindness I shall always gratefully remember.
I depend upon her intercession to insure your writing to me.  May God grant you both his best
blessing.

Your friend,
        R. Waldo Emerson

II.  Carlyle to Emerson

5 Great Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London 12 August, 1834

My Dear Sir,--Some two weeks ago I received your kind gift from Fraser.  To say that it was
welcome would be saying little:  is it not as a voice of affectionate remembrance, coming from
beyond the Ocean waters, first decisively announcing for me that a whole New Continent exists,--that
I too have part and lot there! "Not till we can think that here and there one is thinking of
us, one is loving us, does this waste Earth become a peopled Garden."  Never has your Address
in my Notebook met my eye but with a friendly influence.  Judge if I am glad to know that there,
in Infinite Space, you still hold by me.

I have read in both your books at leisure times, and now nearly finished the smaller one. 
He is a faithful thinker, that Swedenborgian Druggist of yours, with really deep ideas, who
makes me too pause and think, were it only to consider what manner of man he must be, and what
manner of thing, after all, Swedenborgianism must be.  "Through the smallest window look well,
and you can look out into the Infinite."  Webster also I can recognize a sufficient, effectual
man, whom one must wish well to, and prophesy well of.  The sound of him is nowise poetic-rhythmic;
it is clear, one-toned, you might say metallic, yet distinct, significant, not without melody.
In his face, above all, I discern that "indignation" which, if it do not make "verses," makes
useful way in the world.  The higher such a man rises, the better pleased I shall be.  And
so here, looking over the water, let me repeat once more what I believe is already dimly the
sentiment of all Englishmen, Cisoceanic and Transoceanic, that we and you are not two countries,
and cannot for the life of us be;  but only two parishes of one country, with such wholesome
parish hospitalities, and dirty temporary parish feuds, as we see;  both of which brave parishes
Vivant! vivant!  And among the glories of both be Yankee-doodle-doo, and the Felling of the
Western Forest, proudly remembered;  and for the rest, by way of parish constable, let each
cheerfully take such George Washington or George Guelph as it can get, and bless Heaven!  I
am weary of hearing it said, "We love the Americans,"  "We wish well," &c., &c.  What in God's
name should we do else?

You thank me for Teufelsdrockh;  how much more ought I to thank you for your hearty, genuine,
though extravagant acknowledgment of it!  Blessed is the voice that amid dispiritment, stupidity,
and contradiction proclaims to us, Euge!  Nothing ever was more ungenial than the soil this
poor Teufelsdrockhish seed-corn has been thrown on here;  none cries, Good speed to it;  the
sorriest nettle or hemlock seed, one would think, had been more welcome. For indeed our British
periodical critics, and especially the public of Fraser's Magazine (which I believe I have
now done with), exceed all speech;  require not even contempt, only oblivion.  Poor Teufelsdrockh!--Creature
of mischance, miscalculation, and thousand-fold obstruction!  Here nevertheless he is, as you
see;  has struggled across the Stygian marshes, and now, as a stitched pamphlet "for Friends,"
cannot be burnt or lost before his time.  I send you one copy for your own behoof; three others
you yourself can perhaps find fit readers for:  as you spoke in the plural number, I thought
there might be three; more would rather surprise me.  From the British side of the water I
have met simply one intelligent response,--clear, true, though almost enthusiastic as your
own.  My British Friend too is utterly a stranger, whose very name I know not, who did not
print, but only write, and to an unknown third party.*  Shall I say then, "In the mouth of
two witnesses"?  In any case, God be thanked, I am done with it;  can wash my hands of it,
and send it forth;  sure that the Devil will get his full share of it, and not a whit more,
clutch as he may.  But as for you, my Transoceanic brothers, read this earnestly, for it was
earnestly meant and written, and contains no voluntary falsehood of mine.  For the rest, if
you dislike it, say that I wrote it four years ago, and could not now so write it, and on the
whole (as Fritz the Only said) "will do better another time." With regard to style and so forth,
what you call your "saucy" objections are not only most intelligible to me, but welcome and
instructive.  You say well that I take up that attitude because I have no known public, am
alone under the heavens, speaking into friendly or unfriendly space;  add only, that I will
not defend such attitude, that I call it questionable, tentative, and only the best that I,
in these mad times, could conveniently hit upon. For you are to know, my view is that now at
last we have lived to see all manner of Poetics and Rhetorics and Sermonics, and one may say
generally all manner of Pulpits for addressing mankind from, as good as broken and abolished:
alas, yes! if you have any earnest meaning which demands to be not only listened to, but believed
and done, you cannot (at least I cannot) utter it there, but the sound sticks in my throat,
as when a solemnity were felt to have become a mummery;  and so one leaves the pasteboard coulisses,
and three unities, and Blair's Lectures, quite behind;  and feels only that there is nothing
sacred, then, but the Speech of Man to believing Men!  This, come what will, was, is, and forever
must be sacred;  and will one day, doubtless, anew environ itself with fit modes;  with solemnities
that are not mummeries.  Meanwhile, however, is it not pitiable?  For though Teufelsdrockh
exclaims, "Pulpit! canst thou not make a pulpit by simply inverting the nearest tub?" yet,
alas! he does not sufficiently reflect that it is still only a tub, that the most inspired
utterance will come from it, inconceivable, misconceivable, to the million;  questionable (not
of ascertained significance) even to the few.  Pity us therefore;  and with your just shake
of the head join a sympathetic, even a hopeful smile.  Since I saw you I have been trying,
am still trying, other methods, and shall surely get nearer the truth, as I honestly strive
for it.  Meanwhile, I know no method of much consequence, except that of believing, of being
sincere:  from Homer and the Bible down to the poorest Burns's Song, I find no other Art that
promises to be perennial.

--------- * In his Diary, July 26, 1834, Carlyle writes--"In the midst of innumerable discouragements,
all men indifferent or finding fault, let me mention two small circumstances that are comfortable.
The first is a letter from some nameless Irishman in Cork to another here, (Fraser read it
to me without names,) actually containing a true and one of the friendliest possible recognitions
of me.  One mortal, then, says I am not utterly wrong. Blessings on him for it!  The second
is a letter I got today from Emerson, of Boston in America;  sincere, not baseless, of most
exaggerated estimation.  Precious is man to man." Fifteen years later, in his Reminiscences
of My Irish Journey, he enters, under date of July 16, 1849:  "Near eleven o'clock [at night]
announces himself 'Father O'Shea'! (who I thought had been dead);  to my astonishment enter
a little gray-haired, intelligent-and-bred-looking man, with much gesticulation, boundless
loyal welcome, red with dinner and some wine, engages that we are to meet tomorrow,--and again
with explosions of welcomes goes his way.  This Father O'Shea, some fifteen years ago, had
been, with Emerson of America, one of the two sons of Adam who encouraged poor bookseller Fraser,
and didn't discourage him, to go on with Teufelsdrockh.  I had often remembered him since;
had not long before re-inquired his name, but understood somehow that he was dead--and now."
---------------

But now quitting theoretics, let me explain what you long to know, how it is that I date from
London.  Yes, my friend, it is even so:  Craigenputtock now stands solitary in the wilderness,
with none but an old woman and foolish grouse-destroyers in it; and we for the last ten weeks,
after a fierce universal disruption, are here with our household gods.  Censure not;  I came
to London for the best of all reasons,--to seek bread and work.  So it literally stands;  and
so do I literally stand with the hugest, gloomiest Future before me, which in all sane moments
I good-humoredly defy.  A strange element this, and I as good as an Alien in it.  I care not
for Radicalism, for Toryism, for Church, Tithes, or the "Confusion" of useful Knowledge.  Much
as I can speak and hear, I am alone, alone.  My brave Father, now victorious from his toil,
was wont to pray in evening worship:  "Might we say, We are not alone, for God is with us!"
Amen! Amen!

I brought a manuscript with me of another curious sort, entitled The Diamond Necklace.  Perhaps
it will be printed soon as an Article, or even as a separate Booklet,--a queer production,
which you shall see.  Finally, I am busy, constantly studying with my whole might for a Book
on the French Revolution.  It is part of my creed that the Only Poetry is History, could we
tell it right.  This truth (if it prove one) I have not yet got to the limitations of;  and
shall in no way except by trying it in practice.  The story of the Necklace was the first attempt
at an experiment.

My sheet is nearly done;  and I have still to complain of you for telling me nothing of yourself
except that you are in the country.  Believe that I want to know much and all.  My wife too
remembers you with unmixed friendliness;  bids me send you her kindest wishes.  Understand
too that your old bed stands in a new room here, and the old welcome at the door.  Surely we
shall see you in London one day.  Or who knows but Mahomet may go to the mountain?  It occasionally
rises like a mad prophetic dream in me, that I might end in the Western Woods!

From Germany I get letters, messages, and even visits;  but now no tidings, no influences,
of moment.  Goethe's Posthumous Works are all published;  and Radicalism (poor hungry, yet
inevitable Radicalism!) is the order of the day.  The like, and even more, from France.  Gustave
d'Eichthal (did you hear?) has gone over to Greece, and become some kind of Manager under King
Otho.*

----------- * Gustave d'Eichthal, whose acquaintance Emerson had made at Rome, and who had
given him an introduction to Carlyle, was one of a family of rich Jewish bankers at Paris.
He was an ardent follower of Saint-Simon, and an associate of Enfantin.  After the dispersion
of the Saint-Simonians in 1832, he traveled much, and continued to devote himself to the improvement
of society. ----------

Continue to love me, you and my other friends;  and as packets sail so swiftly, let me know
it frequently.  All good be with you!

Most faithfully,
             T. Carlyle

Coleridge, as you doubtless hear, is gone.  How great a Possibility, how small a realized Result!
They are delivering Orations about him, and emitting other kinds of froth, ut mos est.  What
hurt can it do?

III. As he passes out of sight, come to me visible as well as spiritual tokens of a fraternal
friendliness which, by its own law, transcends the tedious barriers of custom and nation; 
and opens its way to the heart.  This is a true consolation, and I thanked my jealous [Greek]
for the godsend so significantly timed.  It, for the moment, realizes the hope to which I have
clung with both hands, through each disappointment, that I might converse with a man whose
ear of faith was not stopped, and whose argument I could not predict.  May I use the word,
"I thank my God whenever I call you to remembrance."

---------- * This letter was printed in the Athenaeum, London, June 24, 1882.  It, as well
as three others which appeared in the same journal, is now reprinted, through the courtesy
of its editor, from the original. ----------

I receive with great pleasure the wonderful Professor now that first the decent limbs of Osiris
are collected.*  We greet him well to Cape Cod and Boston Bay.  The rigid laws of matter prohibit
that the soul imprisoned within the strait edges of these types should add one syllable thereto,
or we had adjured the Sage by every name of veneration to take possession by so much as a Salve!
of his Western World, but he remained inexorable for any new communications.

------------- * The four copies of Sartor which Carlyle had sent were a "stitched pamphlet,"
with a title-page bearing the words: "Sartor Resartus: in Three Books.  Reprinted for Friends,
from Fraser's Magazine. London, 1834." -------------

I feel like congratulating you upon the cold welcome which you say Teufelsdrockh* has met.
As it is not earthly happy, it is marked of a high sacred sort.  I like it a great deal better
than ever, and before it was all published I had eaten nearly all my words of objection.  But
do not think it shall lack a present popularity.  That it should not be known seems possible,
for if a memoir of Laplace had been thrown into that muck-heap of Fraser's Magazine, who would
be the wiser?  But this has too much wit and imagination not to strike a class who would not
care for it as a faithful mirror of this very Hour.  But you know the proverb, "To be fortunate,
be not too wise."  The great men of the day are on a plane so low as to be thoroughly intelligible
to the vulgar. Nevertheless, as God maketh the world forevermore, whatever the devils may seem
to do, so the thoughts of the best minds always become the last opinion of Society.  Truth
is ever born in a manger, but is compensated by living till it has all souls for its kingdom.
Far, far better seems to me the unpopularity of this Philosophical Poem (shall I call it?)
than the adulation that followed your eminent friend Goethe.  With him I am becoming better
acquainted, but mine must be a qualified admiration.  It is a singular piece of good-nature
in you to apotheosize him.  I cannot but regard it as his misfortune, with conspicuous bad
influence on his genius, that velvet life he led.  What incongruity for genius, whose fit ornaments
and reliefs are poverty and hatred, to repose fifty years on chairs of state and what pity
that his Duke did not cut off his head to save him from the mean end (forgive) of retiring
from the municipal incense "to arrange tastefully his gifts and medals"!  Then the Puritan
in me accepts no apology for bad morals in such as he.  We can tolerate vice in a splendid
nature whilst that nature is battling with the brute majority in defence of some human principle.
The sympathy his manhood and his misfortunes call out adopts even his faults; but genius pampered,
acknowledged, crowned, can only retain our sympathy by turning the same force once expended
against outward enemies now against inward, and carrying forward and planting the standard
of Oromasdes so many leagues farther on into the envious Dark.  Failing this, it loses its
nature and becomes talent, according to the definition,--mere skill in attaining vulgar ends.
A certain wonderful friend of mine said that "a false priest is the falsest of false things."
But what makes the priest?  A cassock?  O Diogenes!  Or the power (and thence the call) to
teach man's duties as they flow from the Superhuman?  Is not he who perceives and proclaims
the Superhumanities, he who has once intelligently pronounced the words "Self-Renouncement,"
"Invisible Leader," "Heavenly Powers of Sorrow," and so on, forever the liege of the same?

------------ * Emerson uniformly spells this name "Teufelsdroch." ------------

Then to write luxuriously is not the same thing as to live so, but a new and worse offence.
It implies an intellectual defect also, the not perceiving that the present corrupt condition
of human nature (which condition this harlot muse helps to perpetuate) is a temporary or superficial
state.  The good word lasts forever:  the impure word can only buoy itself in the gross gas
that now envelops us, and will sink altogether to ground as that works itself clear in the
everlasting effort of God.

May I not call it temporary? for when I ascend into the pure region of truth (or under my undermost
garment, as Epictetus and Teufelsdrockh would say), I see that to abide inviolate, although
all men fall away from it;  yea, though the whole generation of Adam should be healed as a
sore off the face of the creation. So, my friend, live Socrates and Milton, those starch Puritans,
for evermore!  Strange is it to me that you should not sympathize (yet so you said) with Socrates,
so ironical, so true, and who "tramped in the mire with wooden shoes whenever they would force
him into the clouds."  I seem to see him offering the hand to you across the ages which some
time you will grasp.

I am glad you like Sampson Reed, and that he has inspired some curiosity respecting his Church.
Swedenborgianism, if you should be fortunate in your first meetings, has many points of attraction
for you:  for instance, this article, "The poetry of the Old Church is the reality of the New,"
which is to be literally understood, for they esteem, in common with all the Trismegisti, the
Natural World as strictly the symbol or exponent of the Spiritual, and part for part;  the
animals to be the incarnations of certain affections;  and scarce a popular expression esteemed
figurative, but they affirm to be the simplest statement of fact.  Then is their whole theory
of social relations--both in and out of the body--most philosophical, and, though at variance
with the popular theology, self-evident.  It is only when they come to their descriptive theism,
if I may say so, and then to their drollest heaven, and to some autocratic not moral decrees
of God, that the mythus loses me.  In general, too, they receive the fable instead of the moral
of their Aesop.  They are to me, however, deeply interesting, as a sect which I think must
contribute more than all other sects to the new faith which must arise out of all.

You express a desire to know something of myself.  Account me "a drop in the ocean seeking
another drop," or God-ward, striving to keep so true a sphericity as to receive the due ray
from every point of the concave heaven.  Since my return home, I have been left very much at
leisure.  It were long to tell all my speculations on my profession and my doings thereon;
but, possessing my liberty, I am determined to keep it, at the risk of uselessness (which risk
God can very well abide), until such duties offer themselves as I can with integrity discharge.
One thing I believe,--that Utterance is place enough:  and should I attain through any inward
revelation to a more clear perception of my assigned task, I shall embrace it with joy and
praise.  I shall not esteem it a low place, for instance, if I could strengthen your hands
by true expressions of the hope and pleasure which your writings communicate to me and to some
of my countrymen.  Yet the best poem of the Poet is his own mind, and more even than in any
of the works I rejoice in the promise of the workman.  Now I am only reading and musing, and
when I have any news to tell of myself, you shall hear them.

Now as to the welcome hint that you might come to America, it shall be to me a joyful hope.
Come and found a new Academy that shall be church and school and Parnassus, as a true Poet's
house should be.  I dare not say that wit has better chance here than in England of winning
world-wages, but it can always live, and it can scarce find competition.  Indeed, indeed, you
shall have the continent to yourself were it only as Crusoe was king.  If you cared to read
literary lectures, our people have vast curiosity, and the apparatus is very easy to set agoing.
Such 'pulpit' as you pleased to erect would at least find no hindrance in the building.  A
friend of mine and of yours remarked, when I expressed the wish that you would come here, "that
people were not here, as in England, sacramented to organized schools of opinion, but were
a far more convertible audience."  If at all you can think of coming here, I would send you
any and all particulars of information with cheerfulest speed.

I have written a very long letter, yet have said nothing of much that I would say upon chapters
of the Sartor.  I must keep that, and the thoughts I had upon 'poetry in history',' for another
letter, or (might it be!) for a dialogue face to face.

Let me not fail of The Diamond Necklace.  I found three greedy receivers of Teufelsdrockh,
who also radiate its light.  For the sake of your knowing what manner of men you move, I send
you two pieces writ by one of them, Frederic Henry Hedge, the article on Swedenborg and that
on Phrenology.  And as you like Sampson Reed, here are one or two more of his papers.  Do read
them.  And since you study French history do not fail to look at our Yankee portrait of Lafayette.
Present my best remembrances to Mrs. Carlyle, whom that stern and blessed solitude has armed
and sublimed out of all reach of the littleness and unreason of London.  If I thought we could
win her to the American shore, I would send her the story of those godly women, the contemporaries
of John Knox's daughter, who came out hither to enjoy the worship of God amidst wild men and
wild beasts.

Your friend and servant,
                    R. Waldo Emerson

IV. Carlyle to Emerson

5 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London 3 February, 1835

My Dear Sir,--I owe you a speedy answer as well as a grateful one;  for, in spite of the swift
ships of the Americans, our communings pass too slowly.  Your letter, written in November,
did not reach me till a few days ago;  your Books or Papers have not yet come,--though the
ever-punctual Rich, I can hope, will now soon get them for me.  He showed me his way-bill or
invoice, and the consignment of these friendly effects "to another gentleman," and undertook
with an air of great fidelity to bring all to a right bearing.  On the whole, as the Atlantic
is so broad and deep, ought we not rather to esteem it a beneficent miracle that messages can
arrive at all;  that a little slip of paper will skim over all these weltering floods, and
other inextricable confusions, and come at last, in the hand of the Twopenny Postman, safe
to your lurking-place, like green leaf in the bill of Noah's Dove?  Let us be grateful for
mercies; let us use them while they are granted us.  Time was when "they that feared the Lord
spake often one to another."  A friendly thought is the purest gift that man can afford to
man.  "Speech" also, they say, "is cheerfuler than light itself."

The date of your letter gives me unhappily no idea but that of Space and Time.  As you know
my whereabout, will you throw a little light on your own?  I can imagine Boston, and have often
seen the musket volleys on Bunker Hill;  but in this new spot there is nothing for me save
sky and earth, the chance of retirement, peace, and winter seclusion.  Alas!  I can too well
fancy one other thing:  the bereavement you allude to, the sorrow that will so long be painful
before it can become merely sad and sacred.  Brothers, especially in these days, are much to
us:  had one no brother, one could hardly understand what it was to have a Friend;  they are
the Friends whom Nature chose for us;  Society and Fortune, as things now go, are scarcely
compatible with Friendship, and contrive to get along, miserably enough, without it.  Yet sorrow
not above measure for him that is gone.  He is, in very deed and truth, with God,--where you
and I both are. What a thin film it is that divides the Living from the Dead!  In still nights,
as Jean Paul says, "the limbs of my Buried Ones touched cold on my soul, and drove away its
blots, as dead hands heal eruptions of the skin."  Let us turn back into Life.

That you sit there bethinking yourself, and have yet taken no course of activity, and can without
inward or outward hurt so sit, is on the whole rather pleasing news to me.  It is a great truth
which you say, that Providence can well afford to have one sit:  another great truth which
you feel without saying it is that a course wherein clear faith cannot go with you may be worse
than none;  if clear faith go never so slightly against it, then it is certainly worse than
none.  To speak with perhaps ill-bred candor, I like as well to fancy you not preaching to
Unitarians a Gospel after their heart.  I will say farther, that you are the only man I ever
met with of that persuasion whom I could unobstructedly like.  For the rest, that you have
liberty to choose by your own will merely, is a great blessing:  too rare for those that could
use it so well;  nay, often it is difficult to use.  But till ill health of body or of mind
warns you that the moving, not the sitting, position is essential, sit still, contented in
conscience;  understanding well that no man, that God only knows what we are working, and will
show it one day;  that such and such a one, who filled the whole Earth with his hammering and
troweling, and would not let men pass for his rubbish, turns out to have built of mere coagulated
froth, and vanishes with his edifice, traceless, silently, or amid hootings illimitable; while
again that other still man, by the word of his mouth, by the very look of his face, was scattering
influences, as seeds are scattered, "to be found flourishing as a banyan grove after a thousand
years."  I beg your pardon for all this preaching, if it be superfluous impute it to no miserable
motive.

Your objections to Goethe are very natural, and even bring you nearer me:  nevertheless, I
am by no means sure that it were not your wisdom, at this moment, to set about learning the
German Language, with a view towards studying him mainly!  I do not assert this;  but the truth
of it would not surprise me.  For which last Evangel, the confirmation and rehabilitation of
all other Evangels whatsoever, how can I be too grateful?  On the whole, I suspect you yet
know only Goethe the Heathen (Ethnic); but you will know Goethe the Christian by and by, and
like that one far better.  And so I appeal to Philip sober;--and indeed have hardly said as
much about Goethe since I saw you, for nothing reigns here but twilight delusion (falser for
the time than midnight darkness) on that subject, and I feel that the most suffer nothing thereby,
having properly nothing or little to do with such a matter but with you, who are not "seeking
recipes for happiness," but something far higher, it is not so, and therefore I have spoken
and appealed;  and hope the new curiosity, if I have awakened any, will do you no mischief.

------------ * Obviously Carlyle's Specimens of German Romance, of which the fourth volume
was devoted to Goethe. ------------

But now as to myself;  for you will grumble at a sheet of speculation sent so far:  I am here
still, as Rob Roy was on Glasgow Bridge, biding tryste;  busy extremely, with work that will
not profit me at all in some senses;  suffering rather in health and nerves;  and still with
nothing like dawn on any quarter of my horizon.  The Diamond Necklace has not been printed,
but will be, were this French Revolution out;  which latter, however, drags itself along in
a way that would fill your benevolent heart with pity.  I am for three small volumes now, and
have one done.  It is the dreadfulest labor (with these nerves, this liver) I ever undertook;
all is so inaccurate, superficial, vague, in the numberless books I consult;  and without accuracy
at least, what other good is possible?  Add to this that I have no hope about the thing, except
only that I shall be done with it:  I can reasonably expect nothing from any considerable class
here, but at best to be scolded and reproached;  perhaps to be left standing "on my own basis,"
without note or comment of any kind, save from the Bookseller, who will lose his printing.
The hope I have however is sure:  if life is lent me, I shall be done with the business;  I
will write this "History of Sansculottism," the notablest phenomenon I meet with since the
time of the Crusades or earlier;  after which my part is played.  As for the future, I heed
it little when so busy;  but it often seems to me as if one thing were becoming indisputable:
that I must seek another craft than literature for these years that may remain to me. Surely,
I often say, if ever man had a finger-of-Providence shown him, thou hast it;  literature will
neither yield thee bread, nor a stomach to digest bread with: quit it in God's name, shouldst
thou take spade and mattock instead. The truth is, I believe literature to be as good as dead
and gone in all parts of Europe at this moment, and nothing but hungry Revolt and Radicalism
appointed us for perhaps three generations; I do not see how a man can honestly live by writing
in another dialect than that, in England at least;  so that if you determine on not living
dishonestly, it will behove you to look several things full in the face, and ascertain what
is what with some distinctness.  I look around accordingly on a most wonderful vortex of things;
and pray to God only, that as my day, is so my strength may be. What will come out of it is
wholly uncertain:  for I have possibilities too;  the possibilities of London are far from
exhausted yet:  I have a brave brother, who invites me to come and be quiet with him in Rome;
a brave friend (known to you) who opens the door of a new Western world,--and so we will stand
considering and consulting, at least till the Book be over. Are all these things interesting
to you?  I know they are.

As for America and Lecturing, it is a thing I do sometimes turn over, but never yet with any
seriousness.  What your friend says of the people being more persuadable, so far, as having
no Tithe-controversy, &c., &c. will go, I can most readily understand it.  But apart from that,
I should rather fancy America mainly a new Commercial England, with a fuller pantry,--little
more or little less.  The same unquenchable, almost frightfully unresting spirit of endeavor,
directed (woe is me!) to the making of money, or money's worth;  namely, food finer and finer,
and gigmanic renown higher and higher:  nay, must not your gigmanity be a purse-gigmanity,
some half-shade worse than a purse-and-pedigree one?  Or perhaps it is not a whit worse;  only
rougher, more substantial;  on the whole better?  At all events ours is fast becoming identical
with it;  for the pedigree ingredient is as near as may be gone:  Gagnez de l'argent, et ne
vous faites pas pendre, this is very nearly the whole Law, first Table and second.  So that
you see, when I set foot on American land, it will be on no Utopia;  but on a conditional piece
of ground where some things are to be expected and other things not.  I may say, on the other
hand, that Lecturing (or I would rather it were speaking) is a thing I have always had some
hankering after: it seems to me I could really swim in that element, were I once thrown into
it;  that in fact it would develop several things in me which struggle violently for development.
The great want I have towards such an enterprise is one you may guess at:  want of a rubric,
of a title to name my speech by.  Could any one but appoint me Lecturing Professor of Teufelsdrockh's
science,-- "Things in general"!  To discourse of Poets and Poetry in the Hazlitt style, or
talk stuff about the Spirit of the Age, were most unedifying:  one knows not what to call himself.
However, there is no doubt that were the child born it might be christened;  wherefore I will
really request you to take the business into your consideration, and give me in the most rigorous
sober manner you can some scheme of it.  How many Discourses;  what Towns;  the probable Expenses,
the probable net Income, the Time, &c., &c.:  all that you can suppose a man wholly ignorant
might want to know about it.  America I should like well enough to visit, much as I should
another part of my native country:  it is, as you see, distinctly possible that such a thing
might be;  we will keep it hanging, to solace ourselves with it, till the time decide.

Have I involved you in double postage by this loquacity? or What is your American rule?  I
did not intend it when I began;  but today my confusion of head is very great and words must
be multiplied with only a given quantity of meaning.

My wife, who is just gone out to spend the day with a certain "celebrated Mrs. Austin," (called
also the "celebrated Translatress of Puckler-Muskau,") charged me very specially to send you
her love, her good wishes and thanks:  I assure you there is no hypocrisy in that.  She votes
often for taking the Transatlantic scheme into contemplation;  declares farther that my Book
and Books must and will indisputably prosper (at some future era), and takes the world beside
me--as a good wife and daughter of John Knox should.  Speaking of "celebrated" persons here,
let me mention that I have learned by stern experience, as children do with fire, to keep in
general quite out of the way of celebrated persons, more especially celebrated women.  This
Mrs. Austin, who is half ruined by celebrity (of a kind), is the only woman I have seen not
wholly ruined by it.  Men, strong men, I have seen die of it, or go mad by it.  Good fortune
is far worse than bad!

Will you write with all despatch, my dear sir;  fancy me a fellow-wayfarer, who cordially bids
you God-speed, and would fain keep in sight of you, within sound of you.

Yours with great sincerity,
                     T. Carlyle

V.  Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 12 March, 1838

My Dear Sir,--I am glad of the opportunity of Mr. Barnard's* visit to say health and peace
be with you.  I esteem it the best sign that has shone in my little section of space for many
days, that some thirty or more intelligent persons understand and highly appreciate the Sartor.
Dr. Channing sent to me for it the other day, and I have since heard that he had read it with
great interest.  As soon as I go into town I shall see him and measure his love.  I know his
genius does not and cannot engage your attention much.  He possesses the mysterious endowment
of natural eloquence, whose effect, however intense, is limited, of course, to personal communication.
I can see myself that his writings, without his voice, may be meagre and feeble.  But please
love his catholicism, that at his age can relish the Sartor, born and inveterated as he is
in old books.  So much for our gossip of today.

--------- * Mr. Henry Barnard, of Hartford, Connecticut, to whom Emerson had given a note of
introduction to Carlyle. ---------

But my errand is yet to tell.  Some friends here are very desirous that Mr. Fraser should send
out to a bookseller here fifty or a hundred copies of the Sartor.  So many we want very much;
they would be sold at once.  If we knew that two or three hundred would be taken up, we should
reprint it now.  But we think it better to satisfy the known inquirers for the book first,
and when they have extended the demand for it, then to reproduce it, a naturalized Yankee.
The lovers of Teufelsdrockh here are sufficiently enthusiastic.  I am an icicle to them. They
think England must be blind and deaf if the Professor makes no more impression there than yet
appears.  I, with the most affectionate wishes for Thomas Carlyle's fame, am mainly bent on
securing the medicinal virtues of his book for my young neighbors.  The good people think he
overpraises Goethe.  There I give him up to their wrath.  But I bid them mark his unsleeping
moral sentiment;  that every other moralist occasionally nods, becomes complaisant and traditional;
but this man is without interval on the side of equity and humanity!  I am grieved for you,
O wise friend, that you cannot put in your own contemptuous disclaimer of such puritanical
pleas as are set up for you;  but each creature and Levite must do after his kind.

Yet do not imagine that I will hurt you in this unseen domain of yours by any Boswellism. 
Every suffrage you get here is fairly your own.  Nobody is coaxed to admire you, and you have
won friends whom I should be proud to show you, and honorable women not a few.  And cannot
you renew and confirm your suggestion touching your appearance in this continent?  Ah, if I
could give your intimation the binding force of an oracular word!--in a few months, please
God, at most, I shall have wife, house, and home wherewith and wherein to return your former
hospitality.  And if I could draw my prophet and his prophetess to brighten and immortalize
my lodge, and make it the window through which for a summer you should look out on a field
which Columbus and Berkeley and Lafayette did not scorn to sow, my sun should shine clearer
and life would promise something better than peace.  There is a part of ethics, or in Schleiermacher's
distribution it might be physics, which possesses all attraction for me;  to wit, the compensations
of the Universe, the equality and the coexistence of action and reaction, that all prayers
are granted, that every debt is paid.  And the skill with which the great All maketh clean
work as it goes along, leaves no rag, consumes its smoke,-- will I hope make a chapter in your
thesis.

I intimated above that we aspire to have a work on the First Philosophy in Boston.  I hope,
or wish rather.  Those that are forward in it debate upon the name.  I doubt not in the least
its reception if the material that should fill it existed.  Through the thickest understanding
will the reason throw itself instantly into relation with the truth that is its object, whenever
that appears.  But how seldom is the pure loadstone produced!  Faith and love are apt to be
spasmodic in the best minds:  Men live on the brink of mysteries and harmonies into which yet
they never enter, and with their hand on the door-latch they die outside. Always excepting
my wonderful Professor, who among the living has thrown any memorable truths into circulation?
So live and rejoice and work, my friend, and God you aid, for the profit of many more than
your mortal eyes shall see.  Especially seek with recruited and never-tired vision to bring
back yet higher and truer report from your Mount of Communion of the Spirit that dwells there
and creates all.  Have you received a letter from me with a pamphlet sent in December?  Fail
not, I beg of you, to remember me to Mrs. Carlyle.

Can you not have some Sartors sent?  Hilliard, Gray, & Co. are the best publishers in Boston.
Or Mr. Rich has connections with Burdett in Boston.

Yours with respect and affection,
                              R. Waldo Emerson

VI.   Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 30 April, 1835

My Dear Sir,--I received your letter of the 3d of February on the 20th instant, and am sorry
that hitherto we have not been able to command a more mercantile promptitude in the transmission
of these light sheets.  If desire of a letter before it arrived, or gladness when it came,
could speed its journey, I should have it the day it was written.  But, being come, it makes
me sad and glad by turns.  I admire at the alleged state of your English reading public without
comprehending it, and with a hoping scepticism touching the facts.  I hear my Prophet deplore,
as his predecessors did, the deaf ear and the gross heart of his people, and threaten to shut
his lips;  but, happily, this he cannot do, any more than could they.  The word of the Lord
will be spoken. But I shall not much grieve that the English people and you are not of the
same mind if that apathy or antipathy can by any means be the occasion of your visiting America.
The hope of this is so pleasant to me, that I have thought of little else for the week past,
and having conferred with some friends on the matter, I shall try, in obedience to your request,
to give you a statement of our capabilities, without indulging my penchant for the favorable
side.  Your picture of America is faithful enough:  yet Boston contains some genuine taste
for literature, and a good deal of traditional reverence for it.  For a few years past, we
have had, every winter, several courses of lectures, scientific, political, miscellaneous,
and even some purely literary, which were well attended.  Some lectures on Shakespeare were
crowded; and even I found much indulgence in reading, last winter, some Biographical Lectures,
which were meant for theories or portraits of Luther, Michelangelo, Milton, George Fox, Burke.
These courses are really given under the auspices of Societies, as "Natural History Society,"
"Mechanics' Institutes," "Diffusion of Useful Knowledge," &c., &c., and the fee to the lecturer
is inconsiderable, usually $20 for each lecture.  But in a few instances individuals have undertaken
courses of lectures, and have been well paid.  Dr. Spurzheim* received probably $3,000 in the
few months that he lived here.  Mr. Silliman, a Professor of Yale College, has lately received
something more than that for a course of fifteen or sixteen lectures on Geology.  Private projects
of this sort are, however, always attended with a degree of uncertainty.  The favor of my townsmen
is often sudden and spasmodic, and Mr. Silliman, who has had more success than ever any before
him, might not find a handful of hearers another winter.  But it is the opinion of many friends
whose judgment I value, that a person of so many claims upon the ear and imagination of our
fashionable populace as the "author of the Life of Schiller," "the reviewer of Burns's Life,"
the live "contributor to the Edinburgh and Foreign Reviews," nay, the "worshipful Teufelsdrockh,"
the "personal friend of Goethe," would, for at least one season, batter down opposition, and
command all ears on whatever topic pleased him, and that, quite independently of the merit
of his lectures, merely for so many names' sake.

----------- * The memory of Dr. Spurzheim has faded, but his name is still known to men of
science on both sides of the Atlantic as that of the most ardent and accomplished advocate
of the doctrine of Phrenology. He came to the United States in 1832 to advance the cause he
had at heart, but he had been only a short time in the country when he died at Boston of a
fever. -------------

But the subject, you say, does not yet define itself.  Whilst it is "gathering to a god," we
who wait will only say, that we know enough here of Goethe and Schiller to have some interest
in German literature.  A respectable German here, Dr. Follen, has given lectures to a good
class upon Schiller.  I am quite sure that Goethe's name would now stimulate the curiosity
of scores of persons.  On English literature, a much larger class would have some preparedness.
But whatever topics you might choose, I need not say you must leave under them scope for your
narrative and pictorial powers;  yes, and space to let out all the length of all the reins
of your eloquence of moral sentiment.  What "Lay Sermons" might you not preach! or methinks
"Lectures on Europe" were a sea big enough for you to swim in.  The only condition our adolescent
ear insists upon is, that the English as it is spoken by the unlearned shall be the bridge
between our teacher and our tympanum.

Income and Expenses.--All our lectures are usually delivered in the same hall, built for the
purpose.  It will hold 1,200 persons;  900 are thought a large assembly.  The expenses of rent,
lights, doorkeeper, &c. for this hall, would be $12 each lecture.  The price of $3 is the least
that might be demanded for a single ticket of admission to the course,--perhaps $4;  $5 for
a ticket admitting a gentleman and lady.  So let us suppose we have 900 persons paying $3 each,
or $2,700.  If it should happen, as did in Prof. Silliman's case, that many more than 900 tickets
were sold, it would be easy to give the course in the day and in the evening, an expedient
sometimes practised to divide an audience, and because it is a great convenience to many to
choose their time.  If the lectures succeed in Boston, their success is insured at Salem, a
town thirteen miles off, with a population of 15,000.  They might, perhaps, be repeated at
Cambridge, three miles from Boston, and probably at Philadelphia, thirty-six hours distant.

At New York anything literary has hitherto had no favor.  The lectures might be fifteen or
sixteen in number, of about an hour each.  They might be delivered, one or two in each week.
And if they met with sudden success, it would be easy to carry on the course simultaneously
at Salem, and Cambridge, and in the city. They must be delivered in the winter.

Another plan suggested in addition to this.  A gentleman here is giving a course of lectures
on English literature to a private class of ladies, at $10 to each subscriber.  There is no
doubt, were you so disposed, you might turn to account any writings in the bottom of your portfolio,
by reading lectures to such a class, or, still better, by speaking.

Expense of Living.--You may travel in this country for $4 to $4.50 a day.  You may board in
Boston in a "gigmanic" style for $8 per week, including all domestic expenses.  Eight dollars
per week is the board paid by the permanent residents at the Tremont House,--probably the best
hotel in North America.  There, and at the best hotels in New York, the lodger for a few days
pays at the rate of $1.50 per day.  Twice eight dollars would provide a gentleman and lady
with board, chamber, and private parlor, at a fashionable boardinghouse.  In the country, of
course, the expenses are two thirds less.  These are rates of expense where economy is not
studied.  I think the Liverpool and New York packets demand $150 of the passenger, and their
accommodations are perfect.  (N.B.--I set down all sums in dollars.  You may commonly reckon
a pound sterling worth $4.80.)  "The man is certain of success," say those I talk with, "for
one winter, but not afterwards."  That supposes no extraordinary merit in the lectures, and
only regards you in your leonine aspect.  Those who are most interested in it designed to make
gratuitous contributions to its pages, until its success could be assured. Hedge is just leaving
our neighborhood to be settled as a minister two hundred and fifty miles off, in Maine, and
entreats that you will edit the journal.  He will write, and I please myself with thinking
I shall be able to write under such auspices.  Then you might (though I know not the laws respecting
literary property) collect some of your own writings and reprint them here.  I think the Sartor
would now be sure of a sale. Your Life of Schiller, and Wilhelm Meister, have been long reprinted
here.  At worst, if you wholly disliked us, and preferred Old England to New, you can judge
of the suggestion of a knowing man, that you might see Niagara, get a new stock of health,
and pay all your expenses by printing in England a book of travels in America.

---------- *Now the Rev. Dr. Hedge, late Professor of German and of Ecclesiastical History
in Harvard College. ------------

I wish you to know that we do not depend for your eclat on your being already known to rich
men here.  You are not.  Nothing has ever been published here designating you by name.  But
Dr. Channing reads and respects you.  That is a fact of importance to our project.  Several
clergymen, Messrs. Frothingham, Ripley, Francis, all of them scholars and Spiritualists, (some
of them, unluckily, called Unitarian,) love you dearly, and will work heartily in your behalf.
Mr. Frothing ham, a worthy and accomplished man, more like Erasmus than Luther, said to me
on parting, the other day, "You cannot express in terms too extravagant my desire that he should
come."  George Ripley, having heard, through your letter to me, that nobody in England had
responded to the Sartor, had secretly written you a most reverential letter, which, by dint
of coaxing, be read to me, though he said there was but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous.
I prayed him, though I thought the letter did him no justice, save to his heart, to send you
it or another;  and he says he will.  He is a very able young man, even if his letter should
not show it.*  He said he could, and would, bring many persons to hear you, and you should
be sure of his utmost aid. Dr. Bradford, a medical man, is of good courage. Mr. Loring,** a
lawyer, said,"--Invite Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle to spend a couple of months at my house," (I assured
him I was too selfish for that,) "and if our people," he said, "cannot find out his worth,
I will subscribe, with, others, to make him whole of any expense he shall incur in coming."
Hedge promised more than he ought. There are several persons beside, known to me, who feel
a warm interest in this thing.  Mr. Furness, a popular and excellent minister in Philadelphia,
at whose house Harriet Martineau was spending a few days, I learned the other day "was feeding
Miss Martineau with the Sartor."  And here some of the best women I know are warm friends of
yours, and are much of Mrs. Carlyle's opinion when she says, Your books shall prosper.

----------- * Emerson's estimate of Mr. Ripley was justified as the years went on.  His Life,
by Mr. Octavius Frothingham,--like his father, "a worthy and accomplished, man," but more like
Luther than Erasmus,--forms one of the most attractive volumes of the series of Lives of American
Men of Letters.

** The late Ellis Gray Loring, a man of high character, well esteemed in his profession, and
widely respected. ----------

On the other hand, I make no doubt you shall be sure of some opposition.  Andrews Norton, one
of our best heads, once a theological professor, and a destroying critic, lives upon a rich
estate at Cambridge, and frigidly excludes the Diderot paper from a Select Journal edited by
him, with the remark, "Another paper of the Teufelsdrockh School."  The University perhaps,
and much that is conservative in literature and religion, I apprehend, will give you its cordial
opposition, and what eccentricity can be collected from the Obituary Notice on Goethe, or from
the Sartor, shall be mustered to demolish you.  Nor yet do I feel quite certain of this.  If
we get a good tide with us, we shall sweep away the whole inertia, which is the whole force
of these gentlemen, except Norton.  That you do not like the Unitarians will never hurt you
at all, if possibly you do like the Calvinists.  If you have any friendly relations to your
native Church, fail not to bring a letter from a Scottish Calvinist to a Calvinist here, and
your fortune is made.  But that were too good to happen.

Since things are so, can you not, my dear sir, finish your new work and cross the great water
in September or October, and try the experiment of a winter in America?  I cannot but think
that if we do not make out a case strong enough to make you build your house, at least you
should pitch your tent among us.  The country is, as you say, worth visiting, and to give much
pleasure to a few persons will be some inducement to you.  I am afraid to press this matter.
To me, as you can divine, it would be an unspeakable comfort;  and the more, that I hope before
that time so far to settle my own affairs as to have a wife and a house to receive you.  Tell
Mrs. Carlyle, with my affectionate regards, that some friends whom she does not yet know do
hope with me to have her company for the next winter at our house, and shall not cease to hope
it until you come.

I have many things to say upon the topics of your letter, but my letter is already so immeasurably
long, it must stop.  Long as it is, I regret I have not more facts.  Dr. Channing is in New
York, or I think, despite your negligence of him, I should have visited him on account of his
interest in you.  Could you see him you would like him.  I shall write you immediately on learning
anything new bearing on this business.  I intended to have despatched this letter a day or
two sooner, that it might go by the packet of the 1st of May from New York.  Now it will go
by that of the 8th, and ought to reach you in thirty days.  Send me your thoughts upon it as
soon as you can.  I jalouse of that new book.  I fear its success may mar my project.

Yours affectionately,
               R. Waldo Emerson

VII. Carlyle to Emerson

5 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London 13 May, 1835

Thanks, my kind friend, for the news you again send me.  Good news, good new friends;  nothing
that is not good comes to me across these waters.  As if the "Golden West" seen by Poets were
no longer a mere optical phenomenon, but growing a reality, and coining itself into solid blessings!
To me it seems very strange;  as indeed generally this whole Existence here below more and
more does.

We have seen your Barnard:  a most modest, intelligent, compact, hopeful-looking man, who will
not revisit you without conquests from his expedition hither.  We expect to see much more of
him;  to instruct him, to learn of him:  especially about that real-imaginary locality of "Concord,"
where a kindly-speaking voice lives incarnated, there is much to learn.

That you will take to yourself a wife is the cheerfulest tidings you could send us.  It is
in no wise meet for man to be alone; and indeed the beneficent Heavens, in creating Eve, did
mercifully guard against that.  May it prove blessed, this new arrangement!  I delight to prophesy
for you peaceful days in it; peaceful, not idle;  filled rather with that best activity which
is the stillest.  To the future, or perhaps at this hour actual Mrs. Emerson, will you offer
true wishes from two British Friends;  who have not seen her with their eyes, but whose thoughts
need not be strangers to the Home she will make for you. Nay, you add the most chivalrous summons:
which who knows but one day we may actually stir ourselves to obey!  It may hover for the present
among the gentlest of our day-dreams;  mild-lustrous; an impossible possibility.  May all go
well with you, my worthy Countryman, Kinsman, and brother Man!

This so astonishing reception of Teufelsdrockh in your New England circle seems to me not only
astonishing, but questionable;  not, however, to be quarreled with.  I may say: If the New.
England cup is dangerously sweet, there are here in Old England whole antiseptic floods of
good hop-decoction; therein let it mingle;  work wholesomely towards what clear benefit it
can.  Your young ones too, as all exaggeration is transient, and exaggerated love almost itself
a blessing, will get through it without damage.  He shrieks at the idea. Accordingly I realized
these four copies from [him,] all he will surrender;  and can do no more.  Take them with my
blessing.  I beg you will present one to the honorablest of those "honorable women";  say to
her that her (unknown) image as she reads shall be to me a bright faultless vision, textured
out of mere sunbeams;  to be loved and worshiped;  the best of all Transatlantic women!  Do
at any rate, in a more business like style, offer my respectful regards to Dr. Channing, whom
certainly I could not count on for a reader, or other than a grieved condemnatory one;  for
I reckoned tolerance had its limits.  His own faithful, long-continued striving towards what
is Best, I knew and honored;  that he will let me go my own way thitherward, with a God-speed
from him, is surely a new honor to us both.

Finally, on behalf of the British world (which is not all contained in Fraser's shop) I should
tell you that various persons, some of them in a dialect not to be doubted of, have privately
expressed their recognition of this poor Rhapsody, the best the poor Clothes-Professor could
produce in the circumstances;  nay, I have Scottish Presbyterian Elders who read, and thank.
So true is what you say about the aptitude of all natural hearts for receiving what is from
the heart spoken to them.  As face answereth to face!  Brother, if thou wish me to believe,
do thou thyself believe first:  this is as true as that of the flere and dolendum;  perhaps
truer.  Wherefore, putting all things together, cannot I feel that I have washed my hands of
this business in a quite tolerable manner?  Let a man be thankful;  and on the whole go along,
while he has strength left to go.  I shall cordially wish well to this thing;  and hail it
as the sure forerunner of things better.  The Visible becomes the Bestial when it rests not
on the Invisible.  Innumerable tumults of Metaphysic must be struggled through (whole generations
perishing by the way), and at last Transcendentalism evolve itself (if I construe aright),
as the Euthanasia of Metaphysic altogether. May it be sure, may it be speedy!  Thou shalt open
thy eyes, O Son of Adam;  thou shalt look, and not forever jargon about laws of Optics and
the making of spectacles!  For myself, I rejoice very much that I seem to be flinging aside
innumerable sets of spectacles (could I but lay them aside,--with gentleness!) and hope one
day actually to see a thing or two. Man lives by Belief (as it was well written of old);  by
logic he can only at best long to live.  Oh, I am dreadfully, afflicted with Logic here, and
wish often (in my haste) that I had the besom of destruction to lay to it for a little!

"Why? and WHEREFORE?  God wot, simply THEREFORE!  Ask not WHY; 't is SITH thou hast to care for."

Since I wrote last to you, (which seems some three months ago,) there has a great mischance
befallen me:  the saddest, I think, of the kind called Accidents I ever had to front.  By dint
of continual endeavor for many weary weeks, I had got the first volume of that miserable French
Revolution rather handsomely finished:  from amid infinite contradictions I felt as if my head
were fairly above water, and I could go on writing my poor Book, defying the Devil and the
World, with a certain degree of assurance, and even of joy.  A Friend borrowed this volume
of Manuscript,--a kind Friend but a careless one,--to write notes on it, which he was well
qualified to do.  One evening about two months ago he came in on us, "distraction (literally)
in his aspect";  the Manuscript, left carelessly out, had been torn up as waste paper, and
all but three or four tatters was clean gone!  And so it lies, under lock and key.  I have
digested the whole misery;  I say, if thou canst never write this thing, why then never do
write it: God's Universe will go along better--without it.  Bodily exhaustion (and "Diana in
the shape of bile")* I will at least try to exclude from the controversy.  By God's blessing,
perhaps the Book shall yet be written;  but I find it will not do, by sheer direct force; 
only by gentler side-methods.  I have much else to write too:  I feel often as if with one
year of health and peace I could write something considerable;--the image of which sails dim
and great through my head.  Which year of health and peace, God, if He see meet, will give
me yet;  or withhold from me, as shall be for the best.

--------- * This allusion to Diana as an obstruction was a favorite one with Carlyle. "Sir
Hudibras, according to Butler, was about to do a dreadful homicide,--an all-important catastrophe,--and
had drawn his pistol with that full intent, and would decidedly have done it, had not, says
Butler, 'Diana in the shape of rust' imperatively intervened.  A miracle she has occasionally
wrought upon me in other shapes."  So wrote Carlyle in a letter in 1874. ---------

I have dwelt and swum now for about a year in this World-Maelstrom of London;  with much pain,
which however has given me many thoughts, more than a counterbalance for that.  Hitherto there
is no outlook, but confusion, darkness, innumerable things against which a man must "set his
face like a flint."  Madness rules the world, as it has generally done:  one cannot, unhappily,
without loss, say to it, Rule then;  and yet must say it.--However, in two months more I expect
my good Brother from Italy (a brave fellow, who is a great comfort to me);  we are then for
Scotland to gather a little health, to consider ourselves a little.  I must have this Book
done before anything else will prosper with me.

Your American Pamphlets got to hand only a few days ago;  worthy old Rich had them not originally;
seemed since to have been oblivious, out of Town, perhaps unwell.  I called one day, and unearthed
them.  Those papers you marked I have read.  Genuine endeavor;  which may the Heavens forward!--In
this poor Country all is swallowed up in the barren Chaos of Politics:  Ministries tumbled
out, Ministries tumbled in;  all things (a fearful substratum of "Ignorance and Hunger" weltering
and heaving under them) apparently in rapid progress towards--the melting-pot. There will be
news from England by and by:  many things have reached their term;  Destiny "with lame foot"
has overtaken them, and there will be a reckoning.  O blessed are you where, what jargoning
soever there be at Washington, the poor man (ungoverned can govern himself) shoulders his age,
and walks into the Western Woods, sure of a nourishing Earth and an overarching Sky!  It is
verily the Door of Hope to distracted Europe;  which otherwise I should see crumbling down
into blackness of darkness.--That too shall be for good.

I wish I had anything to send you besides these four poor Pamphlets;  but I fear there is nothing
going.  Our Ex-Chancellor has been promulgating triticalities (significant as novelties, when
he with his wig and lordhood utters them) against the Aristocracy;  whereat the upper circles
are terribly scandalized. In Literature, except a promised or obtained (but to me still unknown)
volume of Wordsworth, nothing nameworthy doing.--Did I tell you that I saw Wordsworth this
winter?  Twice, at considerable length;  with almost no disappointment.  He is a natural man
(which means whole immensities here and now); flows like a natural well yielding mere wholesomeness,--though,
as it would not but seem to me, in small quantity, and astonishingly diluted.  Franker utterance
of mere garrulities and even platitudes I never heard from any man;  at least never, whom I
could honor for uttering them.  I am thankful for Wordsworth;  as in great darkness and perpetual
sky-rockets and coruscations, one were for the smallest clear-burning farthing candle.  Southey
also I saw;  a far cleverer man in speech, yet a considerably smaller man.  Shovel-hatted;
the shovel-hat is grown to him:  one must take him as he is.

The second leaf is done;  I must not venture on another.  God bless you, my worthy Friend;
you and her who is to be yours!  My Wife bids me send heartiest wishes and regards from her
too across the Sea.  Perhaps we shall all meet one another some day, --if not Here, then Yonder!

Faithfully always,
                 T. Carlyle

VIII.  Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 27 June, 1835

My Dear Friend,--Your very kind Letter has been in my hand these four weeks,--the subject of
much meditation, which has not yet cleared itself into anything like a definite practical issue.
Indeed, the conditions of the case are still not wholly before me:  for if the American side
of it, thanks to your perspicuous minuteness, is now tolerably plain, the European side continues
dubious, too dim for a decision.  So much in my own position here is vague, not to be measured;
then there is a Brother, coming home to me from Italy, almost daily expected now;  whose ulterior
resolutions cannot but be influential on mine;  for we are Brothers in the old good sense,
and have one heart and one interest and object, and even one purse;  and Jack is a good man,
for whom I daily thank Heaven, as for one of its principal mercies.  He is Traveling Physician
to the Countess of Clare, well entreated by her and hers;  but, I think, weary of that inane
element of "the English Abroad," and as good as determined to have done with it;  to seek work
(he sees not well how), if possible, with wages;  but even almost without, or with the lowest
endurable, if need be.  Work and wages:  the two prime necessities of man!  It is pity they
should ever be disjoined; yet of the two, if one must, in this mad Earth, be dispensed with,
it is really wise to say at all hazards, Be it the wages then.  This Brother (if the Heavens
have been kind to me) must be in Paris one of these days;  then here speedily;  and "the House
must resolve itself into a Committee"--of ways and means.  Add to all this, that I myself have
been and am one of the stupidest of living men;  in one of my vacant, interlunar conditions,
unfit for deciding on anything:  were I to give you my actual view of this case, it were a
view such as Satan had from the pavilion of the Anarch old.  Alas! it is all too like Chaos:
confusion of dense and rare:  I also know what it is to drop plumb, fluttering my pennons vain,--for
a series of weeks.

One point only is clear:  that you, my Friend, are very friendly to me;  that New England is
as much my country and home as Old England.  Very singular and very pleasant it is to me to
feel as if I had a house of my own in that far country:  so many leagues and geographical degrees
of wild-weltering "unfruitful brine";  and then the hospitable hearth and the smiles of brethren
awaiting one there!  What with railways, steamships, printing presses, it has surely become
a most monstrous "tissue," this life of ours;  if evil and confusion in the one Hemisphere,
then good and order in the other, a man knows not how:  and so it rustles forth, immeasurable,
from "that roaring Loom of Time,"--miraculous ever as of old!  To Ralph Waldo Emerson, however,
and those that love me as he, be thanks always, and a sure place in the sanctuary of the mind.
Long shall we remember that Autumn Sunday that landed him (out of Infinite Space) on the Craigenputtock
wilderness, not to leave us as he found us.  My Wife says, whatever I decide on, I cannot thank
you too heartily;--which really is very sound doctrine.  I write to tell you so much;  and
that you shall hear from me again when there is more to tell.

It does seem next to certain to me that I could preach a very considerable quantity of things
from that Boston Pulpit, such as it is,--were I once fairly started.  If so, what an unspeakable
relief were it too!  Of the whole mountain of miseries one grumbles at in this life, the central
and parent one, as I often say, is that you cannot utter yourself.  The poor soul sits struggling,
impatient, longing vehemently out towards all corners of the Universe, and cannot get its hest
delivered, not even so far as the voice might do it.  Imprisoned, enchanted, like the Arabian
Prince with half his body marble:  it is really bad work. Then comes bodily sickness;  to act
and react, and double the imbroglio.  Till at last, I suppose, one does rise, like Eliphaz
the Temanite;  states that his inner man is bursting (as if filled with carbonic acid and new
wine), that by the favor of Heaven he will speak a word or two.  Would it were come so far,--
if it be ever to come!

On the whole I think the odds are that I shall some time or other get over to you;  but that
for this winter I ought not to go.  My London expedition is not decided hitherto;  I have begun
various relations and arrangements, which it were questionable to cut short so soon.  That
beggarly Book, were there nothing else, hampers me every way.  To fling it once for all into
the fire were perhaps the best;  yet I grudge to do that.  To finish it, on the other hand,
is denied me for the present, or even so much as to work at it.  What am I to do?  When my
Brother arrives, we go all back to Scotland for some weeks:  there, in seclusion, with such
calmness as I can find or create, the plan for the winter must be settled.  You shall hear
from me then;  let us hope something more reasonable than I can write at present.  For about
a month I have gone to and fro utterly idle:  understand that, and I need explain no more.
The wearied machine refused to be urged any farther;  after long spasmodic struggling comes
collapse.  The burning of that wretched Manuscript has really been a sore business for me.
Nevertheless that too shall clear itself, and prove a favor of the Upper Powers:  tomorrow
to fresh fields and pastures new!  This monstrous London has taught me several things during
the past year;  for if its Wisdom be of the most uninstructive ever heard of by that name of
wisdom, its Folly abounds with lessons,--which one ought to learn.  I feel (with my burnt manuscript)
as if defeated in this campaign; defeated, yet not altogether disgraced.  As the great Fritz
said, when the battle had gone against him, "Another time we will do better."

As to Literature, Politics, and the whole multiplex aspect of existence here, expect me not
to say one word.  We are a singular people, in a singular condition.  Not many nights ago,
in one of those phenomenal assemblages named routs, whither we had gone to see the countenance
of O'Connell and Company (the Tail was a Peacock's tail, with blonde muslin women and heroic
Parliamentary men), one of the company, a "distinguished female" (as we call them), informed
my Wife "O'Connell was the master-spirit of this age."  If so, then for what we have received
let us be thankful, --and enjoy it without criticism.--It often painfully seems to me as if
much were coming fast to a crisis here;  as if the crown-wheel had given way, and the whole
horologe were rushing rapidly down, down, to its end!  Wreckage is swift;  rebuilding is slow
and distant.  Happily another than we has charge of it.

My new American Friends have come and gone.  Barnard went off northward some fortnight ago,
furnished with such guidance and furtherance as I could give him.  Professor Longfellow went
about the same time;  to Sweden, then to Berlin and Germany:  we saw him twice or thrice, and
his ladies, with great pleasure;  as one sees worthy souls from a far country, who cannot abide
with you, who throw you a kind greeting as they pass.  I inquired considerably about Concord,
and a certain man there;  one of the fair pilgrims told me several comfortable things.  By
the bye, how very good you are, in regard to this of Unitarianism!  I declare, I am ashamed
of my intolerance:--and yet you have ceased to be a Teacher of theirs, have you not?  I mean
to address you this time by the secular title of Esquire;  as if I liked you better so.  But
truly, in black clothes or in white, by this style or by that, the man himself can never be
other than welcome to me.  You will further allow me to fancy that you are now wedded;  and
offer our united congratulations and kindest good wishes to that new fair Friend of ours, whom
one day we shall surely know more of,--if the Fates smile.

My sheet is ending, and I must not burden you with double postage for such stuff as this. 
By dint of some inquiry I have learnt the law of the American Letter-carrying;  and I now mention
it for our mutual benefit.  There are from New York to London three packets monthly (on the
1st, on the 10th, on the 20th);  the masters of these carry Letters gratis for all men;  and
put the same into the Post-Office;  there are some pence charged on the score of "Ship-letter"
there, and after that, the regular postage of the country, if the Letter has to go farther.
I put this, for example, into a place called North and South American Coffee-house in the City
here, and pay twopence for it, and it flies.  Doubtless there is some similar receiving-house
with its "leather bag" somewhere in New York, and fixed days (probably the same as our days)
for emptying, or rather for tying and despatching, said leather bag:  if you deal with the
London Packets (so long as I am here) in preference to the Liverpool ones, it will all be well.
As for the next Letter, (if you write as I hope you may before hearing from me again,) pray
direct it, "Care of John Mill, Esq., India House, London";  and he will forward it directly,
should I even be still absent in the North.--Now will you write? and pray write something about
yourself.  We both love you here, and send you all good prayers.  Vale faveque!

Yours ever,
       T. Carlyle

IX.  Emerson to Carlyle*

Concord, 7 October, 1835

My Dear Friend,--Please God I will never again sit six weeks of this short human life over
a letter of yours without answering it.

----------- * The original of this letter is missing;  what is printed here is from the rough
draft. -----------

I received in August your letter of June, and just then hearing that a lady, a little lady
with a mighty heart, Mrs. Child,* whom I scarcely know but do much respect, was about to visit
England (invited thither for work's sake by the African or Abolition Society) and that she
begged an introduction to you, I used the occasion to say the godsend was come, and that I
would acknowledge it as soon as three then impending tasks were ended. I have now learned that
Mrs. Child was detained for weeks in New York and did not sail. Only last night I received
your letter written in May, with the four copies of the Sartor, which by a strange oversight
have been lying weeks, probably months, in the Custom-House.  On such provocation I can sit
still no longer.

------------ * The excellent Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, whose romance of Philothea was published
in this year, 1835. -----------

The three tasks were, a literary address;  a historical discourse on the two-hundredth anniversary
of our little town of Concord* (my first adventure in print, which I shall send you);  the
third, my marriage, now happily consummated.  All three, from the least to the greatest, trod
so fast upon each other's heel as to leave me, who am a slow and awkward workman, no interstice
big enough for a letter that should hope to convey any information. Again I waited that the
Discourse might go in his new jacket to show how busy I had been, but the creeping country
press has not dressed it yet.  Now congratulate me, my friend, as indeed you have already done,
that I live with my wife in my own house, waiting on the good future.  The house is not large,
but convenient and very elastic.  The more hearts (specially great hearts) it holds, the better
it looks and feels.  I have not had so much leisure yet but that the fact of having ample space
to spread my books and blotted paper is still gratifying.  So know now that your rooms in America
wait for you, and that my wife is making ready a closet for Mrs. Carlyle.

---------- * "A Historical Discourse, delivered before the Citizens of Concord, 12th September,
1835, on the Second Centennial Anniversary of the Incorporation of the Town.  By Ralph Waldo
Emerson.  Published by Request.  Concord:  G.F. Bemis, Printer. 1835."  8vo, pp. 52.--A discourse
worthy of the author and of the town.  It is reprinted in the eleventh volume of Emerson's
Works, Boston, 1883. -----------

I could cry at the disaster that has befallen you in the loss of the book.  My brother Charles
says the only thing the friend could do on such an occasion was to shoot himself, and wishes
to know if he have done so.  Such mischance might well quicken one's curiosity to know what
Oversight there is of us, and I greet you well upon your faith and the resolution issuing out
of it.  You have certainly found a right manly consolation, and can afford to faint and rest
a month or two on the laurels of such endeavor.  I trust ere this you have re-collected the
entire creation out of the secret cells where, under the smiles of every Muse, it first took
life.  Believe, when you are weary, that you who stimulate and rejoice virtuous young men do
not write a line in vain.  And whatever betide us in the inexorable future, what is better
than to have awaked in many men the sweet sense of beauty, and to double the courage of virtue.
So do not, as you will not, let the imps from all the fens of weariness and apathy have a minute
too much.  To die of feeding the fires of others were sweet, since it were not death but multiplication.
And yet I hold to a more orthodox immortality too.

This morning in happiest time I have a letter from George Ripley, who tells me you have written
him, and that you say pretty confidently you will come next summer.  Io paean!  He tells me
also that Alexander Everett (brother of Edward) has sent you the friendly notice that has just
appeared in the North American Review, with a letter.*  All which I hope you have received.
I am delighted, for this man represents a clique to which I am a stranger, and which I supposed
might not love you.  It must be you shall succeed when Saul prophesies.  Indeed, I have heard
that you may hear the Sartor preached from some of our best pulpits and lecture-rooms.  Don't
think I speak of myself, for I cherish carefully a salutary horror at the German style, and
hold off my admiration as long as ever I can.  But all my importance is quite at an end.  For
now that Doctors of Divinity and the solemn Review itself have broke silence to praise you,
I have quite lost my plume as your harbinger.

----------- * Mr. A.H. Everett's paper on Sartor Resartus was published in the North American
Review for October, 1835. -----------

I read with interest what you say of the political omens in England.  I could wish our country
a better comprehension of its felicity.  But government has come to be a trade, and is managed
solely on commercial principles.  A man plunges into politics to make his fortune, and only
cares that the world should last his day.  We have had in different parts of the country mobs
and moblike legislation, and even moblike judicature, which have betrayed an almost godless
state of society;  so that I begin to think even here it behoves every man to quit his dependency
on society as much as he can, as he would learn to go without crutches that will be soon plucked
away from him, and settle with himself the principles he can stand upon, happen what may. 
There is reading, and public lecturing too, in this country, that I could recommend as medicine
to any gentleman who finds the love of life too strong in him.

If virtue and friendship have not yet become fables, do believe we keep your face for the living
type.

X.  Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, Mass., 8 April, 1856

My Dear Friend,--I am concerned at not hearing from you.  I have written you two letters, one
in October, one in November, I believe, since I had any tidings of you.*  Your last letter
is dated 27 June, 1835.  I have counted all the chances of delay and miscarriage, and still
am anxious lest you are ill, or have forgotten us.  I have looked at the advertising sheet
of the booksellers, but it promised nothing of the History.  I thought I had made the happiest
truce with sorrow in having the promise of your coming,--I was to take possession of a new
kingdom of virtue and friendship.  Let not the new wine mourn.  Speak to me out of the wide
silence.  Many friends inquire of me concerning you, and you must write some word immediately
on receipt of this sheet.

------------ * One in August by Mrs. Child, apparently not delivered, and one, the preceding,
in October. -----------

With it goes an American reprint of the Sartor.  Five hundred copies only make the edition,
at one dollar a copy.  About one hundred and fifty copies are subscribed for.  How it will
be received I know not.  I am not very sanguine, for I often hear and read somewhat concerning
its repulsive style.  Certainly, I tell them, it is very odd.  Yet I read a chapter lately
with great pleasure.  I send you also, with Dr. Channing's regards and good wishes, a copy
of his little work, lately published, on our great local question of Slavery.

You must have written me since July.  I have reckoned upon your projected visit the ensuing
summer or autumn, and have conjectured the starlike influences of a new spiritual element.
Especially Lectures.  My own experiments for one or two winters, and the readiness with which
you embrace the work, have led me to think much and to expect much from this mode of addressing
men. In New England the Lyceum, as we call it, is already a great institution.  Beside the
more elaborate courses of lectures in the cities, every country town has its weekly evening
meeting, called a Lyceum, and every professional man in the place is called upon, in the course
of the winter, to entertain his fellow-citizens with a discourse on whatever topic.  The topics
are miscellaneous as heart can wish.  But in Boston, Lowell, Salem, courses are given by individuals.
I see not why this is not the most flexible of all organs of opinion, from its popularity and
from its newness permitting you to say what you think, without any shackles of prescription.
In the Lyceum nothing is presupposed.  The orator is only responsible for what his lips articulate.
Then what scope it allows!  You may handle every member and relation of humanity.  What could
Homer, Socrates, or St. Paul say that cannot be said here?  The audience is of all classes,
and its character will be determined always by the name of the lecturer. Why may you not give
the reins to your wit, your pathos, your philosophy, and become that good despot which the
virtuous orator is?

Another thing.  I am persuaded that, if a man speak well, he shall find this a well-rewarded
work in New England.  I have written this year ten lectures;  I had written as many last year.
And for reading both these and those at places whither I was invited, I have received this
last winter about three hundred and fifty dollars.  Had I, in lieu of receiving a lecturer's
fee, myself advertised that I would deliver these in certain places, these receipts would have
been greatly increased.  I insert all this because my prayers for you in this country are quite
of a commercial spirit.  If you lose no dollar by us, I shall joyfully trust your genius and
virtue for your satisfaction on all other points.

I cannot remember that there are any other mouthpieces that are specially vital at this time
except Criticism and Parliamentary Debate.  I think this of ours would possess in the hands
of a great genius great advantages over both.  But what avail any commendations of the form,
until I know that the man is alive and well?  If you love them that love you, write me straightway
of your welfare.  My wife desires to add to mine her friendliest greetings to Mrs. Carlyle
and to yourself.

Yours affectionately,
                 R. Waldo Emerson

I ought to say that Le-Baron Russell, a worthy young man who studies Engineering, did cause
the republication of Teufelsdrockh.*  I trust you shall yet see a better American review of
it than the North American.

------------ * This first edition of Sartor as an independent volume was published by James
Munroe and Company, Boston.  Emerson, at Mr. (now Dr.) Russell's request, wrote a Preface for
the book.  He told Dr. Russell that his brother Charles was not pleased with the Preface, thinking
it "too commonplace, too much like all prefaces." -----------

XI. Carlyle to Emerson

5 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London 29 April, 1836

My Dear Emerson,--Barnard is returning across the water, and must not go back without a flying
salutation for you.  These many weeks I have had your letter by me;  these many weeks I have
felt always that it deserved and demanded a grateful answer;  and, alas! also that I could
give it none.  It is impossible for you to figure what mood I am in.  One sole thought, That
Book! that weary Book! occupies me continually:  wreck and confusion of all kinds go tumbling
and falling around me, within me;  but to wreck and growth, to confusion and order, to the
world at large, I turn a deaf ear;  and have life only for this one thing,--which also in general
I feel to be one of the pitifulest that ever man went about possessed with.  Have compassion
for me!  It is really very miserable:  but it will end.  Some months more, and it is ended;
and I am done with French Revolution, and with Revolution and Revolt in general;  and look
once more with free eyes over this Earth, where are other things than mean internecine work
of that kind:  things fitter for me, under the bright Sun, on this green Mother's-bosom (though
the Devil does dwell in it)!  For the present, really, it is like a Nessus' shirt, burning
you into madness, this wretched Enterprise;  nay, it is also like a kind of Panoply, rendering
you invulnerable, insensible, to all other mischiefs.

I got the fatal First Volume finished (in the miserablest way, after great efforts) in October
last;  my head was all in a whirl;  I fled to Scotland and my Mother for a month of rest. Rest
is nowhere for the Son of Adam:  all looked so "spectral" to me in my old-familiar Birthland;
Hades itself could not have seemed stranger;  Annandale also was part of the kingdom of TIME.
Since November I have worked again as I could;  a second volume got wrapped up and sealed out
of my sight within the last three days.  There is but a Third now:  one pull more, and then!
It seems to me, I will fly into some obscurest cranny of the world, and lie silent there for
a twelvemonth.  The mind is weary, the body is very sick;  a little black speck dances to and
fro in the left eye (part of the retina protesting against the liver, and striking work): 
I cannot help it;  it must flutter and dance there, like a signal of distress, unanswered till
I be done.  My familiar friends tell me farther that the Book is all wrong, style cramp, &c.,
&c.:  my friends, I answer, you are very right; but this also, Heaven be my witness, I cannot
help.--In such sort do I live here;  all this I had to write you, if I wrote at all.

For the rest I cannot say that this huge blind monster of a City is without some sort of charm
for me.  It leaves one alone, to go his own road unmolested.  Deep in your soul you take up
your protest against it, defy it, and even despise it;  but need not divide yourself from it
for that.  Worthy individuals are glad to hear your thought, if it have any sincerity;  they
do not exasperate themselves or you about it;  they have not even time for such a thing.  Nay,
in stupidity itself on a scale of this magnitude, there is an impressiveness, almost a sublimity;
one thinks how, in the words of Schiller, "the very Gods fight against it in vain";  how it
lies on its unfathomable foundations there, inert yet peptic;  nay, eupeptic;  and is a Fact
in the world, let theory object as it will.  Brown-stout, in quantities that would float a
seventy-four, goes down the throats of men; and the roaring flood of life pours on;--over which
Philosophy and Theory are but a poor shriek of remonstrance, which oftenest were wiser, perhaps,
to hold its peace.  I grow daily to honor Facts more and more, and Theory less and less.  A
Fact, it seems to me, is a great thing:  a Sentence printed if not by God, then at least by
the Devil;--neither Jeremy Bentham nor Lytton Bulwer had a hand in that.

There are two or three of the best souls here I have known for long:  I feel less alone with
them;  and yet one is alone,--a stranger and a pilgrim.  These friends expect mainly that the
Church of England is not dead but asleep;  that the leather coaches, with their gilt panels,
can be peopled again with a living Aristocracy, instead of the simulacra of such.  I must altogether
hold my peace to this, as I do to much.  Coleridge is the Father of all these.  Ay de mi!

But to look across the "divine salt-sea."  A letter reached me, some two months ago, from Mobile,
Alabama;  the writer, a kind friend of mine, signs himself James Freeman Clarke.*  I have mislaid,
not lost his Letter;  and do not at present know his permanent address (for he seemed to be
only on a visit at Mobile);  but you, doubtless, do know it.  Will you therefore take or even
find an opportunity to tell this good Friend that it is not the wreckage of the Liverpool ship
he wrote by, nor insensibility on my part, that prevents his hearing direct from me;  that
I see him, and love him in this Letter;  and hope we shall meet one day under the Sun, shall
live under it, at any rate, with many a kind thought towards one another.

---------- * Now the Rev. Dr. Clarke, of Boston. ----------

The North American Review you spoke of never came (I mean that copy of it with the Note in
it);  but another copy became rather public here, to the amusement of some.  I read the article
myself:  surely this Reviewer, who does not want in [sense]* otherwise, is an original:  either
a thrice-plied quiz (Sartor's  "Editor" a twice-plied one);  or else opening on you a grandeur
of still Dulness, rarely to be met with on earth.

------------- * The words supplied here were lost under the seal of the letter. -------------

My friend!  I must end here.  Forgive me till I get done with this Book.  Can you have the
generosity to write, without an answer?  Well, if you cannot, I will answer.  Do not forget
me. My love and my Wife's to your good Lady, to your Brother, and all friends.  Tell me what
you do;  what your world does.  As for my world, take this (which I rendered from the German
Voss, a tough old-Teutonic fellow) for the best I can say of it:--

     "As journeys this Earth, her eye on a Sun, through the
heavenly spaces,
     And, radiant in azure, or Sunless, swallowed in tempests,
     Falters not, alters not;  journeying equal, sunlit or
stormgirt
     So thou, Son of Earth, who hast Force,
     Goal, and Time, go still onwards."

Adieu, my dear friend!  Believe me ever Yours,
                                     Thomas Carlyle

XII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, Massachusetts, 17 September, 1836

My Dear Friend,--I hope you do not measure my love by the tardiness of my messages.  I have
few pleasures like that of receiving your kind and eloquent letters.  I should be most impatient
of the long interval between one and another, but that they savor always of Eternity, and promise
me a friendship and friendly inspiration not reckoned or ended by days or years.

--------- * Charles Chauncy Emerson,--died May 9, 1836,--whose memory still survives fresh
and beautiful in the hearts of the few who remain who knew him in life.  A few papers of his
published in the Dial show to others what he was and what he might have become. -----------

We want but two or three friends, but these we cannot do without, and they serve us in every
thought we think.  I find now I must hold faster the remaining jewels of my social belt.  And
of you I think much and anxiously since Mrs. Channing, amidst her delight at what she calls
the happiest hour of her absence, in her acquaintance with you and your family, expresses much
uneasiness respecting your untempered devotion to study.  I am the more disturbed by her fears,
because your letters avow a self-devotion to your work, and I know there is no gentle dulness
in your temperament to counteract the mischief.  I fear Nature has not inlaid fat earth enough
into your texture to keep the ethereal blade from whetting it through.  I write to implore
you to be careful of your health.  You are the property of all whom you rejoice in art and
soul, and you must not deal with your body as your own.  O my friend, if you would come here
and let me nurse you and pasture you in my nook of this long continent, I will thank God and
you therefor morning and evening, and doubt not to give you, in a quarter of a year, sound
eyes, round cheeks, and joyful spirits.  My wife has been lately an invalid, but she loves
you thoroughly, and hardly stores a barrel of flour or lays her new carpet without some hopeful
reference to Mrs. Carlyle. And in good earnest, why cannot you come here forthwith, and deliver
in lectures to the solid men of Boston the History of the French Revolution before it is published,--or
at least whilst it is publishing in England, and before it is published here.  There is no
doubt of the perfect success of such a course now that the five hundred copies of the Sartor
are all sold, and read with great delight by many persons.

This I suggest if you too must feel the vulgar necessity of doing;  but if you will be governed
by your friend, you shall come into the meadows, and rest and talk with your friend in my country
pasture.  If you will come here like a noble brother, you shall have your solid day undisturbed,
except at the hours of eating and walking;  and as I will abstain from you myself, so I will
defend you from others.  I entreat Mrs. Carlyle, with my affectionate remembrances, to second
me in this proposition, and not suffer the wayward man to think that in these space-destroying
days a prayer from Boston, Massachusetts, is any less worthy of serious and prompt granting
than one from Edinburgh or Oxford.

I send you a little book I have just now published, as an entering wedge, I hope, for something
more worthy and significant.*  This is only a naming of topics on which I would gladly speak
and gladlier hear.  I am mortified to learn the ill fate of my former packet containing the
Sartor and Dr. Channing's work.  My mercantile friend is vexed, for he says accurate orders
were given to send it as a packet, not as a letter.  I shall endeavor before despatching this
sheet to obtain another copy of our American edition.

----------- * This was Nature, the first clear manifesto of Emerson's genius. -----------

I wish I could come to you instead of sending this sheet of paper.  I think I should persuade
you to get into a ship this Autumn, quit all study for a time, and follow the setting sun.
I have many, many things to learn of you.  How melancholy to think how much we need confession!...*
Yet the great truths are always at hand, and all the tragedy of individual life is separated
how thinly from that universal nature which obliterates all ranks, all evils, all individualities.
How little of you is in your will!  Above your will how intimately are you related to all of
us!  In God we meet.  Therein we are, thence we descend upon Time and these infinitesimal facts
of Christendom, and Trade, and England Old and New.  Wake the soul now drunk with a sleep,
and we overleap at a bound the obstructions, the griefs, the mistakes, of years, and the air
we breathe is so vital that the Past serves to contribute nothing to the result.

----------- ** Some words appear to be lost here. -----------

I read Goethe, and now lately the posthumous volumes, with a great interest.  A friend of mine
who studies his life with care would gladly know what records there are of his first ten years
after his settlement at Weimar, and what Books there are in Germany about him beside what Mrs.
Austin has collected and Heine.  Can you tell me?

Write me of your health, or else come.

Yours ever,
      R.W. Emerson.

P.S.--I learn that an acquaintance is going to England, so send the packet by him.

XIII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 5 November, 1836

My Dear Friend,--You are very good to write to me in my silence, in the mood you must be in.
My silence you may well judge is not forgetfulness;  it is a forced silence;  which this kind
Letter enforces into words.  I write the day after your letter comes, lest the morrow bring
forth something new to hinder me.

What a bereavement, my Friend, is this that has overtaken you! Such a Brother, with such a
Life opening around him, like a blooming garden where he was to labor and gather, all vanished
suddenly like frostwork, and hidden from your eye!  It is a loss, a sore loss;  which God had
appointed you.  I do not tell you not to mourn:  I mourn with you, and could wish all mourners
the spirit you have in this sorrow.  Oh, I know it well!  Often enough in this noisy Inanity
of a vision where we still linger, I say to myself, Perhaps thy Buried Ones are not far from
thee, are with thee;  they are in Eternity, which is a Now and HERE! And yet Nature will have
her right;  Memory would feel desecrated if she could forget.  Many times in the crowded din
of the Living, some sight, some feature of a face, will recall to you the Loved Face;  and
in these turmoiling streets you see the little silent Churchyard, the green grave that lies
there so silent, inexpressibly wae.  If it be not His will,--then is it not better so? Silence,--since
in these days we have no speech!  Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, in any day.

You inquire so earnestly about my welfare;  hold open still the hospitable door for me.

As for my health, be under no apprehension.  I am always sick;  I am sicker and worse in body
and mind, a little, for the present; but it has no deep significance:  it is weariness merely;
and now, by the bounty of Heaven, I am as it were within sight of land.  In two months more,
this unblessed Book will be finished;  at Newyearday we begin printing:  before the end of
March, the thing is out;  and I am a free man!  Few happinesses I have ever known will equal
that, as it seems to me.  And yet I ought not to call the poor Book unblessed:  no, it has
girdled me round like a panoply these two years;  kept me invulnerable, indifferent, to innumerable
things.  The poorest man in London has perhaps been one of the freest:  the roaring press of
gigs and gigmen, with their gold blazonry and fierce gig-wheels, have little incommoded him;
they going their way, he going his.--As for the results of the Book, I can rationally promise
myself, on the economical, pecuniary, or otherwise worldly side, simply zero.  It is a Book
contradicting all rules of Formalism, that have not a Reality within them, which so few have;--testifying,
the more quietly the worse, internecine war with Quacks high and low.  My good Brother, who
was with me out of Italy in summer, declared himself shocked, and almost terror-struck:  "Jack,"
I answered, "innumerable men give their lives cheerfully to defend Falsehoods and Half-Falsehoods;
why should not one writer give his life cheerfully to say, in plain Scotch-English, in the
hearing of God and man, To me they seem false and half-false?  At all events, thou seest, I
cannot help it.  It is the nature of the beast."  So that, on the whole, I suppose there is
no more unpromotable, unappointable man now living in England than I. Literature also, the
miscellaneous place of refuge, seems done here, unless you will take the Devil's wages for
it;  which one does not incline to do.  A disjectum membrum;  cut off from relations with men?
Verily so;  and now forty years of age;  and extremely dyspeptical:  a hopeless-looking man.
Yet full of what I call desperate-hope!  One does verily stand on the Earth, a Star-dome encompassing
one;  seemingly accoutred and enlisted and sent to battle, with rations good, indifferent,
or bad,--what can one do but in the name of Odin, Tuisco, Hertha, Horsa, and all Saxon and
Hebrew Gods, fight it out?--This surely is very idle talk.

As to the Book, I do say seriously that it is a wild, savage, ruleless, very bad Book;  which
even you will not be able to like;  much less any other man.  Yet it contains strange things;
sincerities drawn out of the heart of a man very strangely situated;  reverent of nothing but
what is reverable in all ages and places:  so we will print it, and be done with it;--and try
a new turn next time.  What I am to do, were the thing done, you see therefore, is most uncertain.
How gladly would I run to Concord!  And if I were there, be sure the do-nothing arrangement
is the only conceivable one for me.  That my sick existence subside again, this is the first
condition; that quiet vision be restored me.  It is frightful what an impatience I have got
for many kinds of fellow-creatures.  Their jargon really hurts me like the shrieking of inarticulate
creatures that ought to articulate.  There is no resource but to say:  Brother, thou surely
art not hateful;  thou art lovable, at lowest pitiable;-- alas! in my case, thou art dreadfully
wearisome, unedifying:  go thy ways, with my blessing.  There are hardly three people among
these two millions, whom I care much to exchange words with, in the humor I have.  Nevertheless,
at bottom, it is not my purpose to quit London finally till I have as it were seen it out.
In the very hugeness of the monstrous City, contradiction cancelling contradiction, one finds
a sort of composure for one's self that is not to be met with elsewhere perhaps in the world:
people tolerate you, were it only that they have not time to trouble themselves with you. 
Some individuals even love me here;  there are one or two whom I have even learned to love,--though,
for the present, cross circumstances have snatched them out of my orbit again mostly.  Wherefore,
if you ask me, What I am to do?--the answer is clear so far, "Rest myself awhile";  and all
farther is as dark as Chaos.  Now for resting, taking that by itself, my Brother, who has gone
back to Rome with some thoughts of settling as a Physician there, presses me to come thither,
and rest in Rome.  On the other hand, a certain John Sterling (the best man I have found in
these regions) has been driven to Bordeaux lately for his health;  he will have it that I must
come to him, and walk through the South of France to Dauphine, Avignon, and over the Alps next
spring!*  Thirdly, my Mother will have me return to Annandale, and lie quiet in her little
habitation;--which I incline to think were the wisest course of all.  And lastly from over
the Atlantic comes my good Emerson's voice.  We will settle nothing, except that all shall
remain unsettled.  Die Zukunft decket Schmerzen and Glucke.

------------ * In his Life of Sterling, Carlyle prints a letter from Sterling to himself, dated
Bordeaux, October 26, 1836, in which Sterling urges him to come "in the first fine days of
spring." It must have reached him a few days before he wrote this letter to Emerson. ---------

I ought to say, however, that about New-year's-day I will send you an Article on Mirabeau,
which they have printed here (for a thing called the London Review), and some kind of Note
to escort it.  I think Pamphlets travel as Letters in New England, provided you leave the ends
of them open:  if I be mistaken, pray instruct Messrs. Barnard to refuse the thing, for it
has small value.  The Diamond Necklace is to be printed also, in Fraser;  inconceivable hawking
that poor Paper has had;  till now Fraser takes it--for L50:  not being able to get it for
nothing.  The Mirabeau was written at the passionate request of John Mill;  and likewise for
needful lucre.  I think it is the first shilling of money I have earned by my craft these four
years:  where the money I have lived on has come from while I sat here scribbling gratis, amazes
me to think;  yet surely it has come (for I am still here), and Heaven only to thank for it,
which is a great fact.  As for Mill's London Review (for he is quasi-editor), I do not recommend
it to you.  Hide-bound Radicalism;  a to me well-nigh insupportable thing!  Open it not: a
breath as of Sahara and the Infinite Sterile comes from every page of it.  A young Radical
Baronet* has laid out L3,000 on getting the world instructed in that manner:  it is very curious
to see.--Alas! the bottom of the sheet!  Take my hurried but kindest thanks for the prospect
of your second Teufelsdrockh: the first too is now in my possession;  Brother John went to
the Post-Office, and worked it out for a ten shillings.  It is a beautiful little Book;  and
a Preface to it such as no kindest friend could have improved.  Thank my kind Editor** very
heartily from me.

--------- * Sir William Molesworth.  In his Autobiography Mill gives an interesting account
of the founding of this Review, and his quasi-editorial relations to it.  "In the beginning,"
he says, "it did not, as a whole, by any means represent my opinion."

** Dr. Le-Baron Russell ---------

My wife was in Scotland in summer, driven thither by ill health; she is stronger since her
return, though not yet strong;  she sends over to Concord her kindest wishes.  If I fly to
the Alps or the Ocean, her Mother and she must keep one another company, we think, till there
be better news of me.  You are to thank Dr. Channing also for his valued gift.  I read the
Discourse, and other friends of his read it, with great estimation;  but the end of that black
question lies beyond my ken.  I suppose, as usual, Might and Right will have to make themselves
synonymous in some way.  CANST and SHALT, if they are very well understood, mean the same thing
under this Sun of ours.  Adieu, my dear Emerson.  Gehab' Dich wohl!  Many affectionate regards
to the Lady Wife:  it is far within the verge of Probabilities that I shall see her face, and
eat of her bread, one day.  But she must not get sick!  It is a dreadful thing, sickness; 
really a thing which I begin frequently to think criminal--at least in myself. Nay, in myself
it really is criminal;  wherefore I determine to be well one day.

Good be with you and Yours.
                      T. Carlyle

As to Goethe and your Friend:  I know not anything out of Goethe's own works (which have many
notices in them) that treats specially of those ten years.  Doubtless your Friend knows Jordens's
Lexicon (which dates all the writings, for one thing), the Conversations-Lexicon Supplement,
and such like. There is an essay by one Schubarth which has reputation;  but it is critical
and ethical mainly.  The Letters to Zelter, and the Letters to Schiller, will do nothing for
those years, but are essential to see.  Perhaps in some late number of the Zeitgenossen there
may be something?  Blackguard Heine is worth very little;  Mentzel is duller, decenter, not
much wiser.  A very curious Book is Eckermann's Conversations with Goethe, just published.
No room more!*

----------- * Concerning this letter Emerson wrote in his Diary:  "January 7, 1837.  Received
day before yesterday a letter from Thomas Carlyle, dated 5 November;--as ever, a cordial influence.
Strong he is, upright, noble, and sweet, and makes good how much of our human nature. -------------

XIV.  Six weeks have not yet entirely brought up these laggard animals:  however, I will delay
no longer for them.  Nay, it seems the Articles, were they never so ready, cannot go with the
Letter;  but must fare round by Liverpool or Portsmouth, in a separate conveyance.  We will
leave them to the bounty of Time.

Your little Book and the Copy of Teufelsdrockh came safely; soon after I had written.  The
Teufelsdrockh I instantaneously despatched to Hamburg, to a Scottish merchant there, to whom
there is an allusion in the Book;  who used to be my Speditor (one of the politest extant though
totally a stranger) in my missions and packages to and from Weimar.*  The other, former Copy,
more specially yours, had already been, as I think I told you, delivered out of durance;  and
got itself placed in the bookshelf, as the Teufelsdrockh.  George Ripley tells me you are printing
another edition;  much good may it do you!  There is now also a kind of whisper and whimper
rising here about printing one.  I said to myself once, when Bookseller Fraser shrieked so
loud at a certain message you sent him:  "Perhaps after all they will print this poor rag of
a thing into a Book, after I am dead it may be,--if so seem good to them.  Either way!"  As
it is, we leave the poor orphan to its destiny, all the more cheerfully.  Ripley says farther
he has sent me a critique of it by a better hand than the North American:  I expect it, but
have not got it Yet.**  The North American seems to say that he too sent me one.  It never
came to hand, nor any hint of it,--except I think once before through you.  It was not at all
an unfriendly review;  but had an opacity, of matter-of-fact in it that filled one with amazement.
Since the Irish Bishop who said there were some things in Gulliver on which he for one would
keep his belief suspended, nothing equal to it, on that side, has come athwart me.  However,
he has made out that Teufelsdrockh is, in all human probability, a fictitious character;  which
is always something, for an Inquirer into Truth.--Will you, finally, thank Friend Ripley in
my name, till I have time to write to him and thank him.

** An article by the Rev. N.L. Frothingham in the Christian Examiner. You will see what the
years will bring you.  It is not one of your smallest qualities in my mind, that you can wait
so quietly and let the years do their best.  He that cannot keep himself quiet is of a morbid
nature;  and the thing he yields us will be like him in that, whatever else it be.

Miss Martineau (for I have seen her since I wrote) tells me you "are the only man in America"
who has quietly set himself down on a competency to follow his own path, and do the work his
own will prescribes for him.  Pity that you were the only one!  But be one, nevertheless; 
be the first, and there will come a second and a third.  It is a poor country where all men
are sold to Mammon, and can make nothing but Railways and Bursts of Parliamentary Eloquence!
And yet your New England here too has the upper hand of our Old England, of our Old Europe:
we too are sold to Mammon, soul, body, and spirit;  but (mark that, I pray you, with double
pity) Mammon will not pay us,--we, are "Two Million three hundred thousand in Ireland that
have not potatoes enough"!  I declare, in History I find nothing more tragical.  I find also
that it will alter;  that for me as one it has altered. Me Mammon will pay or not as he finds
convenient;  buy me he will not.--In fine, I say, sit still at Concord, with such spirit as
you are of;  under the blessed skyey influences, with an open sense, with the great Book of
Existence open round you:  we shall see whether you too get not something blessed to read us
from it.

The Paper is declining fast, and all is yet speculation.  Along with these two "Articles" (to
be sent by Liverpool;  there are two of them, Diamond Necklace and Mirabeau), you will very
probably get some stray Proofsheet--of the unutterable French Revolution!  It is actually at
Press;  two Printers working at separate Volumes of it,--though still too slow.  In not many
weeks, my hands will be washed of it!  You, I hope, can have little conception of the feeling
with which I wrote the last word of it, one night in early January, when the clock was striking
ten, and our frugal Scotch supper coming in!  I did not cry;  nor I did not pray but could
have done both.  No such spell shall get itself fixed on me for some while to come!  A beggarly
Distortion;  that will please no mortal, not even myself;  of which I know not whether the
fire were not after all the due place!  And yet I ought not to say so:  there is a great blessing
in a man's doing what he utterly can, in the case he is in. Perhaps great quantities of dross
are burnt out of me by this calcination I have had;  perhaps I shall be far quieter and healthier
of mind and body than I have ever been since boyhood. The world, though no man had ever less
empire in it, seems to me a thing lying under my feet;  a mean imbroglio, which I never more
shall fear, or court, or disturb myself with:  welcome and welcome to go wholly its own way;
I wholly clear for going mine.  Through the summer months I am, somewhere or other, to rest
myself, in the deepest possible sleep.  The residue is vague as the wind,--unheeded as the
wind.  Some way it will turn out that a poor, well-meaning Son of Adam has bread growing for
him too, better or worse:  any way,--or even no way, if that be it,--I shall be content.  There
is a scheme here among Friends for my Lecturing in a thing they call Royal Institution;  but
it will not do there, I think.  The instant two or three are gathered together under any terms,
who want to learn something I can teach them,--then we will, most readily, as Burns says, "loose
our tinkler jaw";  but not I think till then;  were the Institution even Imperial.

America has faded considerably into the background of late: indeed, to say truth, whenever
I think of myself in America, it is as in the Backwoods, with a rifle in my hand, God's sky
over my head, and this accursed Lazar-house of quacks and blockheads, 'and sin and misery (now
near a head) lying all behind me forevermore.  A thing, you see, which is and can be at bottom
but a daydream!  To rest through the summer:  that is my only fixed wisdom;  a resolution taken;
only the place where uncertain.-- What a pity this poor sheet is done!  I had innumerable things
to tell you about people whom I have seen, about books,--Miss Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Butler,
Southey, Influenza, Parliament, Literature and the Life of Man,--the whole of which must lie
over till next time.  Write to me;  do not forget me.  My Wife, who is sitting by me, in very
poor health (this long while), sends "kindest remembrances," "compliments" she expressly does
not send.  Good be with you always, my dear Friend!

                            --T. Carlyle

We send our felicitation to the Mother and little Boy;  which latter you had better tell us
the name of.

XV. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, Mass., 31 March, 1837

My Dear Friend,--Last night, I said I would write to you forthwith.  This morning I received
your letter of February 13th, and with it the Diamond Necklace, the Mirabeau, and the olive
leaf of a proof-sheet.  I write out the sum of my debt as the best acknowledgment I can make.
I had already received, about New-Year's-Day, the preceding letter.  It came in the midst of
my washbowl-storm of a course of Lectures on the Philosophy of History.  For all these gifts
and pledges,--thanks.  Over the finished History, joy and evergreen laurels.  I embrace you
with all my heart.  I solace myself with the noble nature God has given you, and in you to
me, and to all.  I had read the Diamond Necklace three weeks ago at the Boston Athenaeum, and
the Mirabeau I had just read when my copy came.  But the proof-sheet was virgin gold.  The
Mirabeau I forebode is to establish your kingdom in England.  That is genuine thunder, which
nobody that wears ears can affect to mistake for the rumbling of cart-wheels. I please myself
with thinking that my Angelo has blocked a Colossus which may stand in the public square to
defy all competitors.  To be sure, that is its least merit,--that nobody can do the like,--yet
is it a gag to Cerberus.  Its better merit is that it inspires self-trust, by teaching the
immense resources that are in human nature;  so I sent it to be read by a brave man who is
poor and decried.  The doctrine is indeed true and grand which you preach as by cannonade,
that God made a man, and it were as well to stand by and see what is in him, and, if he act
ever from his impulses, believe that he has his own checks, and, however extravagant, will
keep his orbit, and return from far;  a faith that draws confirmation from the sempiternal
ignorance and stationariness of society, and the sempiternal growth of all the individuals.

The Diamond Necklace I read with joy, whilst I read with my own eyes.  When I read with English
or New-English eyes, my joy is marred by the roaring of the opposition.  I doubt not the exact
story is there told as it fell out, and told for the first time; but the eye of your readers,
as you will easily guess, will be bewildered by the multitude of brilliant-colored hieroglyphics
whereby the meaning is conveyed.  And for the Gig,--the Gig,--it is fairly worn out, and such
a cloud-compeller must mock that particular symbol no more.

I thought as I read this piece that your strange genius was the instant fruit of your London.
It is the aroma of Babylon.  Such as the great metropolis, such is this style:  so vast, enormous,
related to all the world, and so endless in details.  Hence your encyclopediacal allusion to
all knowables, and the virtues and vices of your panoramic pages.  Well, it is your own;  and
it is English;  and every word stands for somewhat; and it cheers and fortifies me.  And what
more can a man ask of his writing fellow-man?  Why, all things;  inasmuch as a good mind creates
wants at every stroke.

The proof-sheet rhymes well with Mirabeau, and has abated my fears from your own and your brother's
account of the new book. I greet it well.  Auspicious Babe, be born!  The first good of the
book is that it makes you free, and as I anxiously hope makes your body sound.  A possible
good is that it will cause me to see your face.  But I seemed to read in Mirabeau what you
intimate in your letter, that you will not come westward.  Old England is to find you out,
and then the New will have no charm.  For me it will be the worst;  for you, not.  A man, a
few men, cannot be to you (with your ministering eyes) that which you should travel far to
find.  Moreover, I observe that America looks, to those who come hither, as unromantic and
unexciting as the Dutch canals.  I see plainly that our Society, for the most part, is as bigoted
to the respectabilities of religion and education as yours;  that there is no more appetite
for a revelation here than elsewhere; and the educated class are, of course, less fair-minded
than others.  Yet, in the moments when my eyes are open, I see that here are rich materials
for the philosopher and poet, and, what is more to your purpose as an artist, that we have
had in these parts no one philosopher or poet to put a sickle to the prairie wheat.  I have
really never believed that you would do us that crowning grace of coming hither, yet if God
should be kinder to us than our belief, I meant and mean to hold you fast in my little meadows
on the Musketaquid (now Concord) River, and show you (as in this country we can anywhere) an
America in miniature in the April or November town meeting.  Therein should you conveniently
study and master the whole of our hemispherical politics reduced to a nutshell, and have a
new version of Oxenstiern's little wit;  and yet be consoled by seeing that here the farmers
patient as their bulls of head-boards--provided for them in relation to distant national objects,
by kind editors of newspapers--do yet their will, and a good will, in their own parish.  If
a wise man would pass by New York, and be content to sit still in this village a few months,
he should get a thorough native knowledge which no foreigner has yet acquired.  So I leave
you with God, and if any oracle in the great Delphos should say "Go," why fly to us instantly.
Come and spend a year with me, and see if I cannot respect your retirements.

I must love you for your interest in me and my way of life, and the more that we only look
for good-nature in the creative class. They pay the tag of grandeur, and, attracted irresistibly
to make, their living is usually weak and hapless.  But you are so companionable--God has made
you Man as well as Poet--that I lament the three thousand miles of mountainous water.  Burns
might have added a better verse to his poem, importing that one might write Iliads or Hamlets,
and yet come short of Truth by infinity, as every written word must;  but "the man's the gowd
for a' that."  And I heartily thank the Lady for her good-will. Please God she may be already
well.  We all grieve to know of her ill health.  People who have seen her never stop with Mr.
Carlyle, but count him thrice blest in her.  My wife believes in nothing for her but the American
voyage.  I shall never cease to expect you both until you come.

My boy is five months old, he is called Waldo,--a lovely wonder that made the Universe look
friendlier to me.

My Wife, one of your best lovers, sends her affectionate regards to Mrs. Carlyle, and says
that she takes exception in your letters only to that sentence that she would go to Scotland
if you came here.  My Wife beseeches her to come and possess her new-dressed chamber.  Do not
cease to write whenever you can spare me an hour.  A man named Bronson Alcott is great, and
one of the jewels we have to show you.  Good bye.

                           --R.W. Emerson

The second edition of Sartor is out and sells well.  I learned the other day that twenty-five
copies of it were ordered for England.  It was very amiable of you, that word about it in Mirabeau.*

---------- * This refers to Carlyle's introducing, in his paper on Mirabeau, a citation from
Sartor, with the words, "We quote from a New England Book." ----------

XVI. Carlyle to Emerson

5 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London, 1 June, 1857

My Dear Friend,--A word must go to Concord in answer to your last kind word.  It reached me,
that word of yours, on the morning of a most unspeakable day;  the day when I, half dead with
fret, agitation, and exasperation, was to address extempore an audience of London quality people
on the subject of German Literature! The heart's wish of me was that I might be left in deepest
oblivion, wrapped in blankets and silence, not speaking, not spoken to, for a twelvemonth to
come.  My Printers had only let me go, out of their Treadmill, the day before.  However, all
that is over now;  and I am still here alive to write to you, and hope for better days.

Almost a month ago there went a copy of a Book called French Revolution, with your address
on it, over to Red-Lion Square, and thence, as old Rich declared, himself now emeritus, back
to one Kennet (I think) near Covent Garden;  who professes to correspond with Hilliard and
Company, Boston, and undertook the service.  The Book is not gone yet, I understand;  but Kennet
engages that it shall leave Liverpool infallibly on the 5th of June.  I wish you a happy reading
of it, therefore:  it is the only copy of my sending that has crossed the water.  Ill printed
(there are many errors, one or two gross ones), ill written, ill thought!  But in fine it is
off my hands:  that is a fact worth all others.  As to its reception here or elsewhere, I anticipate
nothing or little.  Gabble, gabble, the astonishment of the dull public brain is likely to
be considerable, and its ejaculations unedifying.  We will let it go its way.  Beat this thing,
I say always, under thy dull hoofs, O dull Public! trample it and tumble it into all sinks
and kennels;  if thou canst kill it, kill it in God's name:  if thou canst not kill it, why
then thou wilt not.

