They usually begin by sending the culprit to the priests, and the latter, to their shame be
it said, always exhort him to obedience. But since the exhortation in Christ's name to forswear
Christ is for the most part unsuccessful, after he has received the admonitions of the spiritual
authorities, they send him to the gendarmes, and the latter, finding, as a rule, no political
cause for offense in him, dispatch him back again, and then he is sent to the learned men,
to the doctors, and to the madhouse.  During all these vicissitudes he is deprived of liberty
and has to endure every kind of humiliation and suffering as a convicted criminal. (All this
has been repeated in four cases.)  The doctors let him out of the madhouse, and then every
kind of secret shift is employed to prevent him from going free--whereby others would be encouraged
to refuse to serve as he has done--and at the same time to avoid leaving him among the soldiers,
for fear they too should learn from him that military service is not at all their duty by the
law of God, as they are assured, but quite contrary to it.

The most convenient thing for the government would be to kill the non-resistant by flogging
him to death or some other means, as was done in former days.  But to put a man openly to death
because he believes in the creed we all confess is impossible.  To let a man alone who has
refused obedience is also impossible.  And so the government tries either to compel the man
by ill-treatment to renounce Christ, or in some way or other to get rid of him unobserved,
without openly putting him to death, and to hide somehow both the action and the man himself
from other people. And so all kinds of shifts and wiles and cruelties are set on foot against
him.  They either send him to the frontier or provoke him to insubordination, and then try
him for breach of discipline and shut him up in the prison of the disciplinary battalion, where
they can ill treat him freely unseen by anyone, or they declare him mad, and lock him up in
a lunatic asylum.  They sent one man in this way to Tashkend--that is, they pretended to transfer
to the Tashkend army; another to Omsk; a third him they convicted of insubordination and shut
up in prison; a fourth they sent to a lunatic asylum.

Everywhere the same story is repeated.  Not only the government, but the great majority of
liberal, advanced people, as they are called, studiously turn away from everything that has
been said, written, or done, or is being done by men to prove the incompatibility of force
in its most awful, gross, and glaring form--in the form, that is, of an army of soldiers prepared
to murder anyone, whoever it may be--with the teachings of Christianity, or even of the humanity
which society professes as its creed.

So that the information I have gained of the attitude of the higher ruling classes, not only
in Russia but in Europe and America, toward the elucidation of this question has convinced
me that there exists in these ruling classes a consciously hostile attitude to true Christianity,
which is shown pre-eminently in their reticence in regard to all manifestations of it.

Fate of the Book "What I Believe"--Evasive Character of Religious Criticisms of Principles
of my Book--1st Reply: Use of Force not Opposed to Christianity--2d Reply: Use of Force Necessary
to Restrain Evil Doers--3d Reply: Duty of Using Force in Defense of One's Neighbor--4th Reply:
The Breach of the Command of Nonresistance to be Regarded Simply as a Weakness--5th Reply:
Reply Evaded by Making Believe that the Question has long been Decided--To Devise such Subterfuges
and to take Refuge Behind the Authority of the Church, of Antiquity, and of Religion is all
that Ecclesiastical Critics can do to get out of the Contradiction between Use of Force and
Christianity in Theory and in Practice--General Attitude of the Ecclesiastical World and of
the Authorities to Profession of True Christianity--General Character of Russian Freethinking
Critics--Foreign Freethinking Critics--Mistaken Arguments of these Critics the Result of Misunderstanding
the True Meaning of Christ's Teaching.

The impression I gained of a desire to conceal, to hush up, what I had tried to express in
my book, led me to judge the book itself afresh.

On its appearance it had, as I had anticipated, been forbidden, and ought therefore by law
to have been burnt.  But, at the same time, it was discussed among officials, and circulated
in a great number of manuscript and lithograph copies, and in translations printed abroad.

And very quickly after the book, criticisms, both religious and secular in character, made
their appearance, and these the government tolerated, and even encouraged.  So that the refutation
of a book which no one was supposed to know anything about was even chosen as the subject for
theological dissertations in the academies.

The criticisms of my book, Russian and foreign alike, fall under two general divisions--the
religious criticisms of men who regard themselves as believers, and secular criticisms, that
is, those of freethinkers.

I will begin with the first class.  In my book I made it an accusation against the teachers
of the Church that their teaching is opposed to Christ's commands clearly and definitely expressed
in the Sermon on the Mount, and opposed in especial to his command in regard to resistance
to evil, and that in this way they deprive Christ's teaching of all value.  The Church authorities
accept the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount on non-resistance to evil by force as divine
revelation; and therefore one would have thought that if they felt called upon to write about
my book at all, they would have found it inevitable before everything else to reply to the
principal point of my charge against them, and to say plainly, do they or do they not admit
the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount and the commandment of non-resistance to evil as binding
on a Christian.  And they were bound to answer this question, not after the usual fashion (i.
e., "that although on the one side one cannot absolutely deny, yet on the other side one cannot
main fully assent, all the more seeing that," etc., etc.).  No; they should have answered the
question as plainly as it was put in my book--Did Christ really demand from his disciples that
they should carry out what he taught them in the Sermon on the Mount?  And can a Christian,
then, or can he not, always remaining a Christian, go to law or make any use of the law, or
seek his own protection in the law?  And can the Christian, or can he not, remaining a Christian,
take part in the administration of government, using compulsion against his neighbors?  And--the
most important question hanging over the heads of all of us in these days of universal military
service--can the Christian, or can he not, remaining a Christian, against Christ's direct prohibition,
promise obedience in future actions directly opposed to his teaching?  And can he, by taking
his share of service in the army, prepare himself to murder men, and even actually murder them?

These questions were put plainly and directly, and seemed to require a plain and direct answer;
but in all the criticisms of my book there was no such plain and direct answer.  No; my book
received precisely the same treatment as all the attacks upon the teachers of the Church for
their defection from the Law of Christ of which history from the days of Constantine is full.

A very great deal was said in connection with my book of my having incorrectly interpreted
this and other passages of the Gospel, of my being in error in not recognizing the Trinity,
the redemption, and the immortality of the soul.  A very great deal was said, but not a word
about the one thing which for every Christian is the most essential question in life--how to
reconcile the duty of forgiveness, meekness, patience, and love for all, neighbors and enemies
alike, which is so clearly expressed in the words of our teacher, and in the heart of each
of us--how to reconcile this duty with the obligation of using force in war upon men of our
own or a foreign people.

All that are worth calling answers to this question can be brought under the following five
heads.  I have tried to bring together in this connection all I could, not only from the criticisms
on my book, but from what has been written in past times on this theme.

The first and crudest form of reply consists in the bold assertion that the use of force is
not opposed by the teaching of Christ; that it is permitted, and even enjoined, on the Christian
by the Old and New Testaments.

Assertions of this kind proceed, for the most part, from men who have attained the highest
ranks in the governing or ecclesiastical hierarchy, and who are consequently perfectly assured
that no one will dare to contradict their assertion, and that if anyone does contradict it
they will hear nothing of the contradiction.  These men have, for the most part, through the
intoxication of power, so lost the right idea of what that Christianity is in the name of which
they hold their position that what is Christian in Christianity presents itself to them as
heresy, while everything in the Old and New Testaments which can be distorted into an antichristian
and heathen meaning they regard as the foundation of Christianity.  In support of their assertion
that Christianity is not opposed to the use of force, these men usually, with the greatest
audacity, bring together all the most obscure passages from the Old and New Testaments, interpreting
them in the most unchristian way--the punishment of Ananias and Sapphira, of Simon the Sorcerer,
etc.  They quote all those sayings of Christ's which can possibly be interpreted as justification
of cruelty: the expulsion from the Temple; "It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom
than for this city," etc., etc.  According to these people's notions, a Christian government
is not in the least bound to be guided by the spirit of peace, forgiveness of injuries, and
love for enemies.

To refute such an assertion is useless, because the very people who make this assertion refute
themselves, or, rather, renounce Christ, inventing a Christianity and a Christ of their own
in the place of him in whose name the Church itself exists, as well as their office in it.
If all men were to learn that the Church professes to believe in a Christ of punishment and
warfare, not of forgiveness, no one would believe in the Church and it could not prove to anyone
what it is trying to prove.

The second, somewhat less gross, form of argument consists in declaring that, though Christ
did indeed preach that we should turn the left cheek, and give the cloak also, and this is
the highest moral duty, yet that there are wicked men in the world, and if these wicked men
mere not restrained by force, the whole world and all good men would come to ruin through them.
This argument I found for the first time in John Chrysostom, and I slow how he is mistaken
in my book "What I believe."

This argument is ill grounded, because if we allow ourselves to regard any men as intrinsically
wicked men, then in the first place we annul, by so doing, the whole idea of the Christian
teaching, according to which we are all equals and brothers, as sons of one father in heaven.
Secondly, it is ill founded, because even if to use force against wicked men had been permitted
by God, since it is impossible to find a perfect and unfailing distinction by which one could
positively know the wicked from the good, so it would come to all individual men and societies
of men mutually regarding each other as wicked men, as is the case now. Thirdly, even if it
were possible to distinguish the wicked from the good unfailingly, even then it would be impossible
to kill or injure or shut up in prison these wicked men, because there would be no one in a
Christian society to carry out such punishment, since every Christian, as a Christian, has
been commanded to use no force against the wicked.

The third kind of answer, still more subtle than the preceding, consists in asserting that
though the command of non-resistance to evil by force is binding on the Christian when the
evil is directed against himself personally, it ceases to be binding when the evil is directed
against his neighbors, and that then the Christian is not only not bound to fulfill the commandment,
but is even bound to act in opposition to it in defense of his neighbors, and to use force
against transgressors by force.  This assertion is an absolute assumption, and one cannot find
in all Christ's teaching any confirmation of such an argument.  Such an argument is not only
a limitation, but a direct contradiction and negation of the commandment.  If every man has
the right to have recourse to force in face of a danger threatening an other, the question
of the use of force is reduced to a question of the definition of danger for another.  If my
private judgment is to decide the question of what is danger for another, there is no occasion
for the use of force which could not be justified on the ground of danger threatening some
other man.  They killed and burnt witches, they killed aristocrats and girondists, they killed
their enemies because those who were in authority regarded them as dangerous for the people.

If this important limitation, which fundamentally undermines the whole value of the commandment,
had entered into Christ's meaning, there must have been mention of it somewhere.  This restriction
is made nowhere in our Saviour's life or preaching.  On the contrary, warning is given precisely
against this treacherous and scandalous restriction which nullifies the commandment.  The error
and impossibility of such a limitation is shown in the Gospel with special clearness in the
account of the judgment of Caiaphas, who makes precisely this distinction.  He acknowledged
that it was wrong to punish the innocent Jesus, but he saw in him a source of danger not for
himself, but for the whole people, and therefore he said: It is better for one man to die,
that the whole people perish not.  And the erroneousness of such a limitation is still more
clearly expressed in the words spoken to Peter when he tried to resist by force evil directed
against Jesus (Matt. xxvi. 52). Peter was not defending himself, but his beloved and heavenly
Master.  And Christ at once reproved him for this, saying, that he who takes up the sword shall
perish by the sword.

Besides, apologies for violence used against one's neighbor in defense of another neighbor
from greater violence are always untrustworthy, because when force is used against one who
has not yet carried out his evil intent, I can never know which would be greater--the evil
of my act of violence or of the act I want to prevent.  We kill the criminal that society may
be rid of him, and we never know whether the criminal of to-day would not have been a changed
man tomorrow, and whether our punishment of him is not useless cruelty.  We shut up the dangerous--as
we think--member of society, but the next day this man might cease to be dangerous and his
imprisonment might be for nothing.  I see that a man I know to be a ruffian is pursuing a young
girl.  I have a gun in my hand--I kill the ruffian and save the girl.  But the death or the
wounding of the ruffian has positively taken place, while what would have happened if this
had not been I cannot know.  And what an immense mass of evil must result, and indeed does
result, from allowing men to assume the right of anticipating what may happen.  Ninety- nine
per cent of the evil of the world is founded on this reasoning--from the Inquisition to dynamite
bombs, and the executions or punishments of tens of thousands of political criminals.

A fourth, still more refined, reply to the question, What ought to be the Christian's attitude
to Christ's command of non-resistance to evil by force? consists in declaring that they do
not deny the command of non-resisting evil, but recognize it; but they only do not ascribe
to this command the special exclusive value attached to it by sectarians.  To regard this command
as the indispensable condition of Christian life, as Garrison, Ballou, Dymond, the Quakers,
the Mennonites and the Shakers do now, and as the Moravian brothers, the Waldenses, the Albigenses,
the Bogomilites, and the Paulicians did in the past, is a one-sided heresy.  This command has
neither more nor less value than all the other commands, and the man who through weakness transgresses
any command whatever, the command of non-resistance included, does not cease to be a Christian
if he hold the true faith.  This is a very skillful device, and many people who wish to be
deceived are easily deceived by it.  The device consists in reducing a direct conscious denial
of a command to a casual breach of it.  But one need only compare the attitude of the teachers
of the Church to this and to other commands which they really do recognize, to be convinced
that their attitude to this is completely different from their attitude to other duties.

The command against fornication they do really recognize, and consequently they do not admit
that in any case fornication can cease to be wrong.  The Church preachers never point out cases
in which the command against fornication can be broken, and always teach that we must avoid
seductions which lead to temptation to fornication.  But not so with the command of non-resistance.
All church preachers recognize cases in which that command can be broken, and teach the people
accordingly.  And they not only do not teach teat we should avoid temptations to break it,
chief of which is the military oath, but they themselves administer it. The preachers of the
Church never in any other case advocate the breaking of any other commandment.  But in connection
with the commandment of non-resistance they openly teach that we must not understand it too
literally, but that there are conditions and circumstances in which we must do the direct opposite,
that is, go to law, fight, punish.  So that occasions for fulfilling the commandment of nonresistance
to evil by force are taught for the most part as occasions for not fulfilling it.  The fulfillment
of this command, they say, is very difficult and pertains only to perfection.  And how can
it not be difficult, when the breach of it is not only not forbidden, but law courts, prisons,
cannons, guns, armies, and wars are under the immediate sanction of the Church?  It cannot
be true, then, that this command is recognized by the preachers of the Church as on a level
with other commands.

The preachers of the Church clearly, do not recognize it; only not daring to acknowledge this,
they try to conceal their not recognizing it.

So much for the fourth reply.

