Monday, August 18.--The chapel is beside the amphitheatre. In the hospital God and the dead
body are neighbors. At the mass said for the poor woman beside her coffin, two or three others
were placed near by to reap the benefit of the service. There was an unpleasant promiscuousness
of salvation in that performance: it resembled the common grave in the prayer. Behind me, in
the chapel, Rose's niece was weeping--the little girl she had at our house for a short time,
who is now a young woman of nineteen, a pupil at the convent of the Sisters of Saint-Laurent:
a poor, weazened, pale, stunted creature, rickety from starvation, with a head too heavy for
her body, back bent double, and the air of a Mayeux--the last sad remnant of that consumption-ridden
family, awaited by Death and with his hand even now heavy upon her,--in her soft eyes there
is already a gleam of the life beyond.

Then from the chapel to the extreme end of the Montmartre cemetery,--vast as a necropolis and
occupying a whole quarter of the city,--walking at slow steps through mud that never ends.
Lastly the intoning of the priests, and the coffin laboriously lowered by the gravediggers'
arms to the ends of the ropes, as a cask of wine is lowered into a cellar.

Wednesday, August 20.--Once more I must return to the hospital. For since the visit I paid
Rose on Thursday and her sudden death the next day, there has existed for me a mystery which
I force from my thoughts, but which constantly returns; the mystery of that agony of which
I know nothing, of that sudden end. I long to know and I dread to learn. It does not seem to
me as if she were dead; I think of her simply as of a person who has disappeared. My imagination
returns to her last hours, gropes for them in the darkness and reconstructs them, and they
torture me with their veiled horrors! I need to have my doubts resolved. At last, this morning,
I took my courage in both hands. Again I see the hospital, again I see the red-faced, obese
concierge, reeking with life as one reeks with wine, and the corridors where the morning light
falls upon the pale faces of smiling convalescents.

In a distant corner, I rang at a door with little white curtains. It was opened and I found
myself in a parlor where a Virgin stood upon a sort of altar between two windows. On the northern
wall of the room, the cold, bare room, there are--why, I cannot explain--two framed views of
Vesuvius, wretched water-colors which seem to shiver and to be entirely expatriated there.
Through an open door behind me, from a small room in which the sun shines brightly, I hear
the chattering of sisters and children, childish joys, pretty little bursts of laughter, all
sorts of fresh, clear vocal notes: a sound as from a dovecote bathed in the sun. Sisters in
white with black caps pass and repass; one stops in front of my chair. She is short, badly
developed, with an ugly, sweet face, a poor face by the grace of God. She is the mother of
the Salle Saint-Joseph. She tells me how Rose died, in hardly any pain, feeling that she was
improving, almost well, overflowing with encouragement and hope. In the morning, after her
bed was made, without any suspicion that death was near, suddenly she was taken with a hemorrhage,
which lasted some few seconds. I came away, much comforted, delivered from the thought that
she had had the anticipatory taste of death, the horror of its approach.

Thursday, October 21.

                *       *       *       *       *

In the midst of our dinner, which was rendered melancholy enough by the constant hovering of
the conversation around the subject of death, Maria, who came to dinner to-night, cried out,
after two or three nervous blows with her fingers upon her fluffy blonde locks:--"My friends,
while the poor girl was alive, I kept the professional secret of my trade. But, now that she
is under ground, you must know the truth."

And thereupon we learned things concerning the unhappy creature that took away our appetites,
leaving in our mouths the bitter taste of fruit cut with a steel knife. And a whole strange,
hateful, repugnant, deplorable existence was revealed to us. The notes she signed, the debts
she has left behind her at all the dealers, have the most unforeseen, the most amazing, the
most incredible basis. She kept men: the milkwoman's son, for whom she furnished a chamber;
another to whom she carried our wine, chickens, food of all sorts. A secret life of nocturnal
orgies, of nights passed abroad, of fierce nymphomania, that made her lovers say: "Either she
or I will stay on the field!" A passion, passions with her whole head and heart and all her
senses at once, and complicated by all the wretched creatures' diseases, consumption which
adds frenzy to pleasure, hysteria, the beginning of insanity. She had two children by the milkwoman's
son, one of whom lived six months. Some years ago, when she told us that she was going on a
visit to her province, it was to lie in. And, with regard to these men, her passion was so
extravagant, so unhealthy, so insane, that she, who was formerly honesty personified, actually
stole from us, took twenty franc pieces out of rolls of a hundred francs, so that the lovers
she paid might not leave her. Now, after these involuntarily dishonest acts, these petty crimes
extorted from her upright nature, she plunged into such depths of self-reproach, remorse, melancholy,
such black despair, that in that hell in which she rolled on from sin to sin, desperate and
unsatisfied, she had taken to drinking to escape herself, to save herself from the present,
to drown herself and founder for a few moments in the heavy slumber, the lethargic torpor in
which she would lie wallowing across her bed for a whole day, just as she fell when she tried
to make it. The miserable creature! how great an incentive, how many motives and reasons she
found for devouring her suffering, and bleeding internally: in the first place the rejection
at intervals of religious ideas by the terrors of a hell of fire and brimstone; then jealousy,
that characteristic jealousy of everything and everybody that poisoned her life; then, then--then
the disgust which these men, after a time, brutally expressed for her ugliness, and which drove
her deeper and deeper into sottishness,--caused her one day to have a miscarriage, and she
fell half dead on the floor. Such a frightful tearing away of the veil we have worn over our
eyes is like the examination of a pocketful of horrible things in a dead body suddenly opened.
From what we have heard I suddenly seem to realize what she must have suffered for ten years
past: the dread of an anonymous letter to us or of a denunciation from some dealer; and the
constant trepidation on the subject of the money that was demanded of her, and that she could
not pay; and the shame felt by that proud creature, perverted by the vile Quartier Saint-Georges,
because of her intimacy with low wretches whom she despised; and the lamentable consciousness
of the premature senility caused by drunkenness; and the inhuman exactions and brutality of
the Alphonses of the gutter; and the temptations to suicide which caused me to pull her away
from a window one day, when I found her leaning far out--and lastly all the tears that we believed
to be without cause--all these things mingled with a very deep and heartfelt affection for
us, and with a vehement, feverish devotion when either of us was ill. And this woman possessed
an energetic character, a force of will, a skill in mystification, to which nothing can be
compared. Yes, yes, all those frightful secrets kept under lock and key, hidden, buried deep
in her own heart, so that neither our eyes, nor our ears, nor our powers of observation ever
detected aught amiss, even in her hysterical attacks, when nothing escaped her but groans:
a mystery preserved until her death, and which she must have believed would be buried with
her. And of what did she die? She died, because, all through one rainy winter's night, eight
months ago, at Montmartre, she spied upon the milkwoman's son, who had turned her away, in
order to find out with what woman he had filled her place; a whole night leaning against a
ground-floor window, as a result of which she was drenched to the bones with deadly pleurisy!

Poor creature, we forgive her; indeed, a vast compassion for her fills our hearts, as we reflect
upon all that she has suffered. But we have become suspicious, for our lives, of the whole
female sex, and of women above us as well as of women below us in station. We are terror-stricken
at the double lining of their hearts, at the marvelous faculty, the science, the consummate
genius of falsehood with which their whole being is instinct.

               *       *       *       *       *

The above extracts are from our journal: JOURNAL DES GONCOURTS--Mémoires de la Vie Littéraire;
they are the documentary foundation upon which, two years later, my brother and I composed
GERMINIE LACERTEUX, whom we made a study of and taught when she was in the service of our venerable
cousin, Mademoiselle de C----t, of whom we were writing a veracious biography, after the style
of a biography of modern history.

                                                   EDMOND DE GONCOURT.

Auteuil, April, 1886.

I

"Saved! so you are really out of danger, mademoiselle!" exclaimed the maid with a cry of joy,
as she closed the door upon the doctor, and, rushing to the bed on which her mistress lay,
she began, in a frenzy of happiness and with a shower of kisses to embrace, together with the
bed covers, the old woman's poor, emaciated body, which seemed, in the huge bed, as small as
a child's.

The old woman took her head, silently, in both hands, pressed it against her heart, heaved
a sigh, and muttered: "Ah, well! so I must live on!"

This took place in a small room, through the window of which could be seen a small patch of
sky cut by three black iron pipes, various neighboring roofs, and in the distance, between
two houses that almost touched, the leafless branch of a tree, whose trunk was invisible.

On the mantelpiece, in a mahogany box, was a square clock with a large dial, huge figures and
bulky hands. Beside it, under glass covers, were two candlesticks formed by three silver swans
twisting their necks around a golden quiver. Near the fireplace an easy chair à la Voltaire,
covered with one of the pieces of tapestry of checker-board pattern, which little girls and
old women make, extended its empty arms. Two little Italian landscapes, a flower piece in water-colors
after Bertin, with a date in red ink at the bottom, and a few miniatures hung on the walls.

Upon the mahogany commode of an Empire pattern, a statue of Time in black bronze, running with
his scythe in rest, served as a watch stand for a small watch with a monogram in diamonds upon
blue enamel, surrounded with pearls. The floor was covered with a bright carpet with black
and green stripes. The curtains at the bed and the window were of old-fashioned chintz with
red figures upon a chocolate ground.

