 I was playing in
York, so on Sunday I went to the Minster as usual; on the following day, a man I knew came
up to me and said, quite in good faith, 'Why, I saw you in church yesterday, and you were behaving
quite quietly!' Just as though he had expected me to go in costume, and behave as though I
were on the stage. But that is one of the ridiculous ideas that people get into their heads
about actors. Still, I think, all that kind of thing is dying down now-a-days."

NOVEL NOTES.

BY JEROME K. JEROME. ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. GÜLICH. Evidently an unremunerative night. Its houses
were built of gold, and its streets were paved with silver. Its palaces were so beautiful that
no language could describe them, but to merely look at them satisfied all yearnings. And all
the men who dwelt in this city were great and good; and the women fairer than the women of
a boy's dream. And the name of the city was "The city of things men meant to do."

THE STORY OF AN HOUR.

BY HILDA NEWMAN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY V. W. NEWMAN.

          -----

And this is the end of it all!

The sharp queries and sullen answers, the sobs, tears, and bickerings are over, and in their
stead reigns the cold silence of resolution.

How did it all begin? Neither could tell. Yet the torture of an unworthy suspicion, and a pride
that scorns to answer the doubts of an exacting love, have apparently sufficed to obliterate
the memory of the happiness of three unclouded years of kindness and love.

They are going to separate. There is nothing else to do, She says, and He tacitly agrees, for
he knows it is impossible to go on living in this atmosphere of discontent. And they calmly
arrange their affairs, as though it were merely a question of a few weeks' absence, instead
of the breaking up of their home. He will travel, and She will stay on at their house a little
longer, till her mother goes abroad, when she will join her, dismissing all the servants, excepting
the old nurse who looks after their child. Ah! it is the thought of their child that makes
the separation so hard, and He feels that the last link between them is broken, when he yields
that little life into the hands of the wife who does not trust him, thinking bitterly in his
heart that he may be taught to hate him.

She sits in the drawing-room, idly looking out of the window, surprised at the dead calm that
seems to have come over the house. An organ is playing in the street, and the notes jar on
her strained nerves till she could scream; but she sits still with her hands in her lap, trying
to believe that she is utterly indifferent to present, past, or future, yet unconsciously listening
to the hurried, heavy footsteps overhead, where her husband is packing his portmanteau. She
is quite anxious for a moment as she remembers she has put away his fur-lined coat that might
be useful if he goes travelling in chilly regions, but she recollects herself with a start,
and does not stir from her seat. She lets the bitter thoughts come uppermost in her heart now,
for she is convinced, of course, that this parting is the best thing that could take place.
Upstairs, He, quite helpless as to the locality of many necessaries that have hitherto been
prepared for him by thoughtful hands, and not feeling able to confront his servant's inquiring
eyes, is savagely thrusting linen into an unwilling receptacle, whence ties and collars stick
out provokingly at odd corners, and trying to subdue a queer feeling that oppresses him when
he thinks of her stony indifference.

So the packing goes on, and the organ grinds merrily, and is inwardly but emphatically cursed
by at least two ungrateful people.

At last He is ready, and comes slowly down the stairs, giving some very audible and offhand
orders in the hall respecting his particular belongings. A close observer might notice that
he speaks and laughs a little too readily. The little, pale woman, sitting motionless in the
room, hears him, and in her heart of hearts hears what he strives to hide.

After all, it is a great wrench for a man to leave his--well, then, whose fault is it? And
the old arguments and suspicions rise again in her mind and deaden all other feelings.

He comes into the drawing-room, hat in hand, very firm and very calm. She does not move.

"Good-bye," he says, holding out his hand.

"Good-bye," she answers, taking it mechanically.

He pauses at the door, and their eyes meet. "It is much better so," she says, faintly. And
he is gone.

Then there is a rushing and singing in her ears. The notes of the organ rise louder and louder,
till they swell into a rich anthem--the garish daylight changes to the dim light of a church--she
walks up the aisle in a glistening white dress, on which pearldrops shake and tremble. She
hears a dim murmur of voices and rustling of garments, and the scent of white flowers is heavy
in the air. There rises a clear voice, whose fervour moves her inmost heart, exhorting her
to love, honour and obey--and out of the fulness of her soul she promises. Oh! God, oh! God,
she meant to keep that promise.

Then comes a confused din of voices and rolling of carriages, but she is only conscious of
the strong arm to which she clings, and the clear face that bends so tenderly over hers.

With a little sobbing gasp she opens her eyes. Has she been asleep? No, but the organ has stopped
and is rumbling down the street, followed by a crowd of small boys and girls, whose ears are
not sensitive to the quality of music.

She rises. Her knees are shaking as she drags herself painfully across the room, catching a
glimpse of a white, wild-looking face in the tall pier-glass as she clutches the handle of
the door, and then the sight of the empty hat-rack in the hall, the absence of coat and stick,
or fragrant whiff of cigar, bring the irrevocableness of the parting home to her more vividly
than anything--more than the few words of farewell, the cold handshake, and the slam of the
hall door half-an-hour ago. "Was it only half-an-hour?" she murmurs, staring stupidly at the
clock; "it seems an eternity! And now he is going farther and farther from me, never to return--never
to tease, and praise and love me, for (she sobs) he did love me once, in spite of everything--never
to laugh at me and call me 'little woman'--never to hold my hand or ask my help again! He is
thinking of his wasted life and love; yes, he will believe he has wasted it on me. He is thinking
of our little child--he did not bid him good-bye--how could he bear to?" Ah! there is still
something left for her to love; but what is left for him? And with bitter tears she remembers
how quietly he gave the child up to her, and how she accepted the sacrifice as a matter of
course, though she knew what it cost him.

With beating heart she goes upstairs. The cosy, pretty nursery is empty. The nurse has taken
the child to Kensington Gardens as usual. She passes on into their bedroom. It is still in
disorder, and she has not the heart to put it straight, though she feels that a little occupation
would do her good. The sun shines warmly into the room, but she shivers.

There is nothing but loneliness in the house, and that she cannot bear, for it brings thoughts,
and she dares not think.

Hardly knowing what she does, she finds and puts on her hat and gloves, and turns to go, but,
at the very threshold, she stumbles over something--why, it is the little silver match-box
he always uses--and loses. She must take it to him--then she remembers, and, oh! strange woman,
covers it with tears and kisses. She hurries down the stairs, and out of the house, and a long
way down the street before she knows that she is hurrying, because she cannot bear to be alone.
An awful feeling of restlessness, of reproach, will not let her be still, and yet she was so
calm a little while ago.

On--on--regardless of curious looks, for her cheeks are tear-stained, and now and then there
is a little catch in her breath, that she cannot repress.

On--past the quaint old red brick palace, whose history they read together, past the pond with
its toy navy and anxious captains, past nursemaids, children, and mooning philosophers she
hurries, feverishly longing to reach the chosen nook where a joyous welcome awaits her.

Now she is near--but the seat is empty, and the nurse is gossiping in the distance. She runs
on angrily--and stops! For, under a sheltering tree, He stands bidding their little child good-bye.
She can hear his gentle words, and the soft, cooing answers, and she dumbly stretches out her
arms, as a great wave of love surges in her heart and drowns the bitter thoughts for ever.
In a little while he will go, and then this tide of love and repentance will have come too late.

She calls him faintly--and he turns. Her hat is awry, her hair coming down, and she has torn
her pretty dress on some projecting branch, yet He thinks she never looked more beautiful,
as he answers the mute appeal of those tearful eyes, and takes her in his arms. Deep silence
reigns. Then, from the depths of a penitent heart, she sobs out loving, passionate words: "Forgive
me--my husband!"

RUM PUNCH AT PODBURY'S.

BY EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY RONALD GRAY.

Some West Indian insects have an almost human strength of purpose. For three consecutive nights
I suffered from a sort of vampire cockroach, who crept under my pyjamas whilst I slept, and
nibbled my chest. When I awoke, I could feel him hurrying off by way of my arm or leg. The
moment worn-out nature reasserted itself in me, and I dozed again, that ghoul of a cockroach
came back and proceeded with its fell banquet. At length, weakened no doubt by loss of blood
and frantic with the thought that a mere piece of determined vermin should thus habitually
sup off me, I rose in the dead of a moonless night, turned on the electric light, selected
a handy shoe, and then started to have it out, once for all, with that man-eating cockroach.
He broke cover from under some curiosities, and went away at a killing pace. But I had stopped
his "earths" all round the cabin, and after a ten minutes' burst in the open, he settled down,
evidently feeling that I meant business. Though not his equal in pace, I hoped to find myself
a better stayer. He caught my eye once, when he was jumping over my sponge with a view to getting
into some very difficult country under my bunk. The expression in it evidently alarmed him,
and he redoubled his efforts. Twice I had made play with the shoe. Once I nearly landed him
upon the side of his head; the other time I broke a rather valuable curiosity. Finally, the
cockroach began to fly; then, for a while, he had matters his own way. I struck out to the
right and left with a view to winging him, but he certainly showed great ability in the air,
and dodged under the shoe and over it, and then hit me in the face, and was out again before
I could get a blow back. Now, from being a sort of fox-hunt, the affair had degenerated into
a prize-fight; and it seemed utterly impossible to say who would win. On the one side were
ranged weight and science and a shoe; on the other, wings and astounding agility and utter
unscrupulosity. After the first round, I heard people in adjacent cabins waking up and murmuring
unkind things--not about the cockroach, but concerning me. Then I called "Time," and walked
out to the centre of the room. The cockroach did not come. I looked round and saw him sitting
in my open port, twirling his moustache and gazing out upon the sea. I said "Time" again, but
he paid no attention; so I stole upon him, with the stealth of a wild Indian, and smote him
behind. This action was unsportsmanlike, but conclusive. He shot out into the ocean, where
probably some not over-particular tropic fish attempted to digest him and failed.

As the "Rhine" approached Dominica, the Fourth Officer, according to his pleasant custom, approached
me, armed with facts. On this occasion, however, I had taken measures to be before him. I had
read up the island rather carefully, and, knowing that Columbus was always a safe card, had
acquired some information on the subject of that great navigator also. So I waited with quiet
confidence for the Fourth Officer to start. He said:

"Here we are at Dominica--an interesting and beautiful spot."

"True," I replied, "Christopher Columbus discovered the place in 1493."

The Fourth Officer looked startled and uneasy, but I pushed on:

"The French and hurricanes between them have done much to wreck this island's chances. Matters,
however, are more hopeful now. Dominica abounds in sulphur springs, and vast sulphurous accumulations
occur inland. Even the bed of the River Roseau is not free from these volcanic outbursts. Formerly
the place produced very famous and high-class coffee, but this cultivation was ruined by an
insect pest. Now, you shall find that sugar-cane, cocoa, and limejuice are the principal products.
The manioc root, of which cassava bread is made, also grows abundantly here, and basket work
is rather an important industry too. In the year 1881, there were still a hundred and seventy-three
pure aboriginal Caribs left in Dominica, but they have not been counted lately. I don't fancy
they like it. The port of the isle is Roseau, named after the river. We shall presently anchor
off this town. I don't know that there is anything more to say."

Then I looked at the Fourth Officer inquiringly. He was evidently hurt. He said:

"No, I don't fancy that there is anything more to say." Then he shook his head rather reproachfully,
and walked off to the other end of the ship. In fact, he went as far away from me as he possibly
could without getting into the sea. I felt sorry, and followed him, and begged him to tell
me about his younger days, when he was an apprentice, and first sailed the ocean. This cheered
him up, and he recounted a mad freak off Cape Horn by night. It happened that another sailing
ship was following his vessel, so he and a friend began hanging out signal lamps to her, and
waving green and blue and yellow and crimson lights over the stern of their ship. The approaching
barque stood this display for some time, and then, probably under the impression she was running
into a chemist's shop, grew frightened, and changed her course, and was no more seen. Our Fourth
Officer, I should think rightly, regards this as one of his happiest efforts.

The Doctor has already arranged a programme for Roseau. One Podbury dwells there, and this
Podbury brews the best rum punch in the West Indies. The Doctor knows and esteems him. My brother
is also familiar with the Bishop of Dominica, and says that he is a genial, lovable Irishman
of admirable parts, and the best company in the world. It is agreed, therefore, that we first
call upon the Bishop, then see the town, and finally cheer our exhausted systems with Podbury's
rum punch. Neither the Bishop nor Podbury has invited us, or knows we are here at all; but
that is a sort of detail which counts for nothing in foreign parts.

Dominica is very beautiful, with the same beauty as many other islands already mentioned. Great
wooded hills rise, peak upon peak, to the clouds, and between them lie deep gorges and fertile
ravines. The margins of the sea are fringed with palms; Roseau itself lies glimmering upon
the shore, with white walls and red and grey roofs. Inland, winding out under low cliffs behind
the town, flows forth the river over a rocky bed to the sea. This stream produces some very
noble scenery towards the interior, and is rather a large volume of water for such a small
island. As a result Dominica is extremely damp at seasons of much rain, and grows, among other
things, frogs of majestic size.

By kind permission of the Captain, I was allowed to avail myself of the mail-boat at all ports;
and now, tumbling into this vessel, the Doctor and I soon reached dry land.

"Let us bolt straight off to the Cathedral," he said; "ten to one the Bishop's there; if not,
we can go on to his house."

Roseau appeared to be rather a languishing little town. The stony streets were all overgrown
with grass; the place generally lacked any air of enterprise; the negro children, who swarmed
everywhere, were more than usually destitute of attire.

Upon reaching the Bishop's place of business, we found to our dismay that a funeral was going
on. The Cathedral doors were wide open, a crowd was gathered within, and over a flower-laden
bier stood the Bishop, singing away, and as fully occupied as a man could be.

I noticed that the Doctor was fussing about, trying to catch his friend's eye. I therefore said:

"Don't; it isn't decent. You can't expect even a bishop to be genial and effusive at a time
like this. Consider the survivors."

"He sees me!" whispered my brother.

"Sees you; yes, not being blind he couldn't help it. Everybody in the Cathedral sees you; and
they very naturally resent the sight. Come away; you're making the Bishop nervous."

It really was most annoying. There he stood, so close that we could almost touch him, and yet
separated from us by a gulf only to be bridged by the end of his burial service.

The Doctor became illogical and childish about it. When I had dragged him away from these last
sad rites, he gave it as his opinion that any other bishop would have stopped, just for a moment
at least, and been friendly and enthusiastic, if only in an undertone.

"He may get thousands of opportunities to bury people, but he will never have a chance of seeing
you again," said my brother. Then he added, as an afterthought, "And very probably you will
never get another opportunity of talking to an Irish bishop."

After that he sneered at the local medical practitioner, and said that likely enough the deceased
would not have died at all in proper hands.

Then a thought struck me, the horror of which reduced my brother to absolute despair. I said:

"Perhaps the Bishop is interring Podbury. In that case everybody you know on this island will
be busy, and we shan't get any hospitality, or punch, or anything."

"Just my luck if he is," answered the Doctor gloomily. He then kept absolute silence for half-an-hour,
during which time we walked to the Roseau River and beheld many black laundresses out in mid-stream
washing clothes. Turning from this spectacle, he spoke again and said:

"Our present state of suspense is destroying me. I've a terrible presentiment that they were
burying Podbury. If so, we're done all round. I'm going right away to Podbury's now. I shall
see in a moment by the blinds if the worst has happened."

We sought out Podbury's desolate home, and the Doctor asked bitterly why Providence should
have snatched away one whose skill in the matter of rum punch was a household word. I said:

"Try and feel hopeful. We cannot yet be absolutely certain that he has gone."

And then we met Podbury in the Market Place. He was thoroughly alive, and apparently in good
health.

"Ah, Doctor!" he exclaimed, "back again. Glad to see you. How are the boys on the 'Rhine?'
Who's your friend?"

I was made known to Podbury, and explained how the sight of him had turned our mourning into
joy, and how I had come out from England as much to taste his celebrated rum punch as anything
else. He appeared gratified at this, and led the way to his house.

We asked him who the Bishop was burying, and he did not even know. He said:

"A nigger, for certain. Can't be anybody of much account or I should have heard tell of it."

Then we reached his home, and while he brewed cold punch, we talked to his wife and daughters
and some aunts that he had, on his father's side.

The Treasure dropped in too. He knew Podbury well, and Podbury regarded him as an authority
on punch. The liquid was presently placed before us. Podbury showed pleasure when I said what
I thought about it; but he did not feel quite contented until he had expert's opinion.

"Magnificent!" the Treasure presently declared; "why it's equal to the 1890 brew--you remember."

Podbury's eye brightened at this allusion to one of his greatest past triumphs. He tasted the
punch himself, and admitted that it certainly seemed "about right."

With a desire to be entertaining, I volunteered a fact or two concerning punch generally. I said:

"Our word 'punch,' as you are doubtless aware, is derived from the Hindustani 'panch' or Sanskrit
'panchan'; which mean simply 'five.' Punch is a mixture of five ingredients, hence the name."

Everybody was rather impressed with this apposite remark, excepting Podbury. He answered:

"Yes, that's so. I've known it years and years. You bet what I don't know about punch isn't
worth knowing."

This I took to be sheer conceit on the part of Podbury. His successes with punch were making
the man egotistical. I did not believe that he had heard of these interesting points before,
whatever he said to the contrary. At any rate, they were quite new to his wife and daughters
and aunts. So I turned my attention to them, and told them several other things worth knowing.
They doubtless retailed my information to Podbury after we had departed. Still the punch was
good and cooling, and, with a heart that rises above trifles, I here deliberately bless the
man who brewed it. To be thus publicly blessed in print ought to content even Podbury.

When we returned to the "Rhine" night had shaken out her starry skirts, and land and sea were
very dark. But great electric eyes glared down from either side of the ship, facilitating the
business of loading, and shining upon a struggling crowd of lighters, and a yelling, swearing
assembly of negroes. Steam cranes groaned and shrieked and rattled; new passengers were coming
aboard, driven to madness with luggage; and sundry Dominica tradesmen bustled about, selling
curiosities. These people vended stuffed frogs, the skins of humming-birds, Brazilian beetles,
and gigantic Rhinoceros beetles also.

Five or six of them hemmed in the Doctor immediately he arrived, but, finding that he had already
laid in frogs and beetles, they turned upon me with grim determination to do business, or perish
in the attempt. My knowledge of the "Rhine" enabled me to escape from all save one, but he
was as familiar with our vessel as I, and finally, penning me in a corner, he produced a frog
as big as a lap-dog, and declared that it was his almost suicidal intention to practically
give me the thing for half-a-dollar. I said:

"No, John. I am perhaps as good a judge of a bull-frog as anybody living, and I tell you without
hesitation that your frog is worth ten shillings. Don't dream of parting from it for less."

He grinned, and asked:

"Massa gib me ten shillin' for him?"

"Again, no, John. I do not need this Goliath of a frog. I am merely valuing the reptile for
your future guidance. Let me see those beetles."

He showed me a weird creature, which looked as if nature had begun an insect and then changed
her mind and finished it off like a crab. This thing, with the ferocious claw-like nose and
chin, was a female Rhinoceros beetle, so the owner explained. The male beetle appeared to be
a harmless, mild concern of much smaller size, and with no warlike appendages whatever. I never
saw any insect of the sterner sex labour under such crushing disadvantages. Personally, did
I belong to this order of coleoptera, I should sing extremely small, and remain a bachelor,
and creep or fly about quietly after dark, and not affect ladies' society much. Probably, most
gentlemen Rhinoceros beetles do so. It must always be Leap Year with these concerns. If the
males had to propose, the race would long since have become extinct.

I bought a beetle or two, and then my merchant, with strange pertinacity, returned to the bull-frog.
Not far distant stood our Model Man, working for his life. So I said:

"You see that gentleman there--the one ordering everybody about and making so much noise? Take
your frog to him, tell him it is a ten-shilling frog, and he will probably buy it on the spot."

But this frog vendor knew the Model Man from experience. He evidently had no inclination to
attempt any business with him.

"Dat gem'man no buy nuffing, sar. He berry sharp wid me 'fore to-day."

Indeed, the near presence of the Model Man discouraged my friend to such an extent that he
presently withdrew. I told his enemy afterwards, and the Model Man said:

"Offer his beastly frogs to ME! If he had dared to, I should have pitched him into the sea,
stock and all. I did once, when he began bothering people to buy things they had no wish for."

"Ah," I said, "doubtless he alluded to that circumstance when he told me you had been sharp
with him before to-day."

Among the passengers who joined us at Dominica was an old friend, an ample, full-bodied, admirable
gentleman who travelled from England with us, and found the ocean extremely monotonous and
trying upon the voyage out. The same trouble still dogged his footsteps. He came aboard quite
wild and haggard, and declared the universal and appalling lack of variety was telling upon
his health.

"Just think of it," he said, "wherever you turn, nothing but negroes and cocoanut palms, cocoanut
palms and negroes. Every place is exactly like the last; every palm tree exactly like every
other; every negro identical with the rest. I never saw such a monotonous set of islands in
my life."

"Look at their beauty," I said.

"I have, until I'm out of all heart with it," he replied. "A pinnacle or two, with clouds round
the top; a field of sugar-cane; hundreds of palms, hundreds of blacks; mean houses and a paltry
pier--that's a West Indian island. I liked the first; I tolerated the second; I even bore with
the third; but the fourth wearied me; the fifth harrowed me; the sixth sickened me; the seventh--that
is this one--has absolutely maddened me; and the eighth or ninth will probably kill me."

I said:

"You ought not to have come here. Why did you?"

"I took advice," he answered drearily. "So-called friends assured me that what I wanted was
constant change of scene, with variety and novelty. They asserted that these things were to
be found in the West Indies, and I believed them. Look at the climate, too; even that never
changes. Look at the sky; English people cannot stand this eternal surface of dead blue. They
are not accustomed to it, and it frets their optic nerves. In fact, the whole scheme of things
here sets the nervous system on edge from morning till night. There is a cannon somewhere in
this steamer, and it will fire in a moment; for no reason, that I can see, except a nautical
love of unnecessary noise. These ships cannot come to a place or depart again without firing
off their wretched brass guns."

He went moaning away to his cabin, saying that he never knew one room from another on board
ship: they were all so exactly alike; and I proceeded to scan further fresh arrivals.

One party consisted of a man and his wife. They had recently been turned out of Venezuela,
upon political grounds, and were now going up to St. Thomas, to meet some friends there and
arrange a Revolution. A very pretty little French girl and her mother were also among the passengers.
The Treasure knew them well, and, when he heard they were coming, grew excited, and hurried
away to shave and change his clothes.

The Treasure's Enchantress was certainly very beautiful, with a slight, trim figure, great
wealth of raven hair and flashing eyes. Moreover, she appeared to like him, and told me that
he always gave her mother the best cabin in the ship.

There was a scene that night, after we started, between the Treasure and my brother. It happened
thus:

The Enchantress proved to be but an indifferent sailor, and sent for the Doctor. He was just
starting to comfort her when the Treasure arrived.

"Ill?" he asked. "Ah, I knew she would be, poor girl; she always is. Tell her to drink a pint
of salt water. It's the only thing. If that fails, tell her to drink another."

The Doctor immediately showed anger. He said:

"Thanks very much. It saves a medical man such a deal of bother when he has got a chap like
you always handy to do the prescriptions. Should you think two pints of salt water would be
enough? Hadn't we better say a bucket of it?"

"You may be nasty, but it's none the less true that salt water is right," answered our Treasure.
"Just because the thing is a simple, natural remedy, you doctors turn up your noses at it.
I know this case better than you do. The girl has often sailed with us. Sea-water is what she
wants to steady her. I told her so before dinner."

The Doctor departed, and when he had gone, I asked the Treasure all about his Enchantress. I said:

"Of course it's no business of mine, but I'm very interested in your welfare, and might be
useful. Where does she live?"

He answered:

"She has two addresses: one in Martinique and one in Paris. I know them both; but I hardly
think I should be justified in divulging them."

"Certainly you would not," I said. "I should be the very last to suggest it."

"It is a little romance in a small way--I mean her life and her mother's. The father was a
French Count, and died in a duel. That shows some French duels are properly carried out. She
is awfully rich, and not engaged. At least, she doesn't wear a ring. She likes tall men. Of
course that's nothing, but I happen to be fond of small women."

"Merely a coincidence," I said, and he looked rather disappointed.

"We think curiously alike in a good many directions," he continued. "I taught her to play deck
quoits, and shot a few things for her with my gun. And she gave me a photograph recently."

"Of herself?" I asked. "Well, no," he admitted, "not exactly that. She takes pictures sometimes
in a little pocket camera. She did one of an old negro woman--ugly as sin; but it was not so
much the subject as the thought of giving it to me. It argued a friendly feeling--at any rate,
a kindly feeling. Don't it strike you so?"

"Undoubtedly it did. You're a lucky man. How far is she going with us?"

"To St. Thomas. She has a temporary address there, by-the-bye. I know that too."

"Go in and win at St. Thomas. I believe it is a certainty for you; I do, indeed."

The Treasure absolutely blushed. He was a very big man indeed, and produced the largest extent
of blush I ever saw.

Then my brother came back, looking extremely grave.

"How is she?" we asked simultaneously.

"Very ill," he answered shortly. "She was all right when we started, and never better in her
life; but, after dinner, she drank half a wineglass of salt water, and the natural result has
been disaster. I understand some fool urged her to try this as a preventive of mal-de-mer.
Her mother thinks it must have been a coarse practical joke, and is going to speak to the Captain
about it. I wouldn't be the man who prescribed that insane dose for a thousand pounds."

Then an expression of abject dismay stole over the Treasure's face as, despite his great size,
he appeared to shrivel and curl up into nothing.

[Sidenote: The Rev. Dr. Parker pays a visit.]

My "predicament" was first "awkward," then "foolish." "It was all along of" a woman. I may
even say a "woman in white." "I was a pale young curate" then, but of a dissenting type. Twenty-two
years of age. Very white in the face. Dark brown hair, enough to fill a mattress. Very high
collars, compared with which Mr. Gladstone's are mere suggestions. Huge white neckerchief.
Black cloth from top to toe. I was sent to visit an invalid lady somewhere in City Road. A
total stranger. Place: A shop. Room: At the tip-top of the house. The last part of the staircase
was exceedingly narrow and steep, the stairs themselves little broader than a ladder. Tableau:
A lady in bed, the only occupant of the room; a young minister, nearly all head and shirt collar,
the rest of him a mere detail; the minister very shy and, as it were, "struck all of a heap"
by the novelty of his position. The young minister, nervously shy, sat down, and the woman
in white breathed a deep sigh. If my mother could have spoken to me then, it would have been
such a comfort. I felt as if up in the clouds and the ladder had been stolen. There was not
enough of me to break into perspiration, or I should have broken. I know I should. On this
point I will brook no contradiction. There I sat. There were but two of us, and oh! I felt
so very high up, and so very far from the police. Even the street noises seemed to be in another
world, and that world next but one to this. The silence was painful. At length the young mother,
not so very, very young, perhaps, turned her large brown eyes upon me in a fixed and devouring
way, and I can tell you what she said. Shall I? Can you bear it? I could not. She said, with
malignant slowness, "I feel such a strong desire to kill somebody." I was the only "body" in
the room. How that young man got out of the chamber I could never tell. He never revisited
it. He was in the City Road as if by magic. Did he pray with the woman? Not a word. Or she
might have preyed upon him.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Burgin recalls an incident.]

