The Queen then made the acquaintance of one of the cradles of her race, driving out to the
country palace of Herrenhausen, which had been the home of the Electress Sophia, and where
George I. was residing when he was summoned to be king of England. At five o'clock, in the
heat and the dust, her Majesty resumed her journey, "with a racking headache." At Magdeburg
Prince Frederick William appeared, "radiant," with the welcome intelligence that his Princess
was at the Wildpark station. "There on the platform stood our darling child, with a nosegay
in her hand." The Queen described the scene. "She stepped in, and long and warm was the embrace,
as she clasped me in her arms; so much to say, and to tell, and to ask, yet so unaltered; looking
well, quite the old Vicky still! It was a happy moment, for which I thank God!" It was eleven
o'clock at night before the party reached Babelsberg--a pleasant German country house, with
which her Majesty was much pleased. It became her headquarters for the fortnight during which
her visit lasted. In addition to enjoying the society of her daughter, the Queen became familiar
with the Princess's surroundings. Daily excursions were made to a succession of palaces connected
with the past and present Prussian royal family. In this manner her Majesty learnt to know
the King's palace in Berlin, while the poor King, a wreck in health, was absent; Frederick
the Great's Schloss at Potsdam; his whimsical Sans Souci with its orange-trees, the New Palais,
and Charlottenburg with its mausoleum. The Queen also attended two great reviews, gave a day
to the Berlin Museum, and met old Humboldt more than once. Among the other guests at Babelsberg
were the Duke of Saxe- Coburg and Baron Stockmar. The Prince Consort's thirty-ninth birthday
was celebrated in his daughter's house. At last with struggling tears and a bravely said "Auf
baldiges wiedersehn" (to a speedy meeting again), the strongly attached family party separated.
The peculiar pang of separation to the Queen, she expressed in words which every mother will
understand. "All would be comparatively easy were it not for the one thought, that I cannot
be with her (the Princess Royal), at that very critical moment when every other mother goes
to her child."

The royal travellers stayed over the Sunday at Deutz, and again saw Cologne illuminated, the
cathedral like "a mass of glowing red fire." On reaching Osborne on the 31st of August, the
Queen and the Prince were met by Prince Alfred--who had just passed his examination and been
appointed to a ship--"in his middy's jacket, cap, and dirk."

On their way to Scotland the Queen and the Prince Consort, accompanied by the Princesses Alice
and Helena, visited Leeds, for the purpose of opening the Leeds Town Hall. The party stayed
at Woodley House, the residence of the mayor, who is described in her Majesty's journal as
a "perfect picture of a fine old man." In his crimson velvet robes and chain of office he looked
"the personification of a Venetian doge." The Queen as usual made "the tour of the town amidst
a great concourse of spectators." She remarked on the occasion, "Nowhere have I seen the children's
names so often inscribed. On one large arch were even 'Beatrice and Leopold,' which gave me
much pleasure...." a result which, had they known it, would have highly gratified the loyal
clothworkers. After receiving the usual addresses, the Queen knighted the mayor, and by her
command Lord Derby declared the hall open.

While her Majesty was at Balmoral, the marriages of a niece and nephew of hers took place in
Germany--Princess Feodore, the youngest daughter of the Princess of Hehenlohe, married the
Duke of Saxe-Meiningen; and Ernest, Prince of Leiningen, the eldest son of the late Prince
of Leiningen, who was in the English navy, married Princess Marie Amelie of Baden.

More of the English royal children were taking flight from the parent nest. Mr. Bruce, Lord
Elgin's brother, was appointed Governor to the Prince of Wales, and was about to set out with
him on a tour in Italy. Prince Alfred was with his ship at Malta.

CHAPTER XXXII.

BIRTH OF PRINCE WILLIAM OF PRUSSIA--DEATH OF PRINCE HOHENLOHE-- VOLUNTEER REVIEWS--SECOND VISIT
TO COBURG--BETROTHAL OF PRINCESS ALICE.

One of the beauties of the Queen's early Court, Lady Clementina Villiers, daughter of the Earl
of Jersey, died unmarried at her father's seat of Middleton Park in 1858. She was as good and
clever as she was beautiful. Like her lovely sister, Princess Nicholas Esterhazy, Lady Clementina
died in the prime of life, being only thirty-four years of age.

On the 27th of January, 1859, the Queen and the Prince received the good news of the birth
of their first grandchild, a fine boy, after great suffering on the part of the young mother.
He had forty-two godfathers and godmothers.

In April Princess Alice was confirmed. Her Majesty's estimate of her daughter's character was
amply borne out in the years to come. "She is very good, gentle, sensible, and amiable, and
a real comfort to me." Without her sister, the Princess Royal's, remarkable intellectual power,
Princess Alice had fine intelligence. She was also fair to see in her royal maidenhood. The
two elder sons were away. The Prince of Wales was in Italy, Prince Alfred with his ship in
the Levant. At home the volunteer movement, which has since acquired such large proportions,
was being actively inaugurated. The war between Austria and France, and a dissolution of Parliament,
made this spring a busy and an anxious time. The first happy visit from the Princess Royal,
who came to join in celebrating her Majesty's birthday at Osborne, would have made the season
altogether joyous, had it not been for a sudden and dangerous attack of erysipelas from which
the Duchess of Kent suffered. The alarm was brief, but it was sharp while it lasted.

In June her Majesty opened the new Parliament, an event which was followed in a fortnight by
the resignation of Lord Derby's Ministry, and Lord Palmerston became Prime Minister with a
strong Cabinet.

At the close of the season the sad news arrived of the sudden death from diphtheria of the
year-old wife, the young Queen of Portugal.

In August the Queen and the Prince made one of their yachting excursions to the Channel Islands.
The Duchess of Kent's seventy-third birthday was kept at Osborne. During the autumn stay of
the Court at Balmoral, the Prince presided over the British Association for the Promotion of
Science, which met that year at Aberdeen. He afterwards entertained two hundred members of
the association, filling four omnibuses, in addition to carriages, at a Highland gathering
at Balmoral. The day was cold and showery, but with gleams of sunshine. It is unnecessary to
say that the attendance was large, and the games and dancing were conducted with much spirit.
In honour of the country, the Prince and his sons appeared in kilts, the Queen and the Princesses
in royal Stewart tartan skirts and shawls over black velvet bodices.

In 1859 the Queen made no less than three successful ascents of Highland mountains, Morvem,
Lochnagar, and at last Ben Macdhui, the highest mountain in Scotland, upwards of four thousand
feet. On the return of the royal party they went from Edinburgh to Loch Katrine, in order to
open the Glasgow Waterworks, the conclusion of a great undertaking which was marred not inappropriately
by a very wet day. The Queen and the Prince made a detour on their homeward route, as they
had occasionally done before, visiting Wales and Lord Penryn at Penryn Castle.

This year saw the publication of a memorable book, "Adam Bede," for which even its precursor,
"Scenes from Clerical Life," had not prepared the world of letters. The novel was much admired
in the royal circle. In one of the rooms at Osborne, as a pendant to a picture from the "Faery
Queen," there hangs a representation from a very different masterpiece in English literature,
of the young Squire watching Hetty in the dairy.

In the beginning of winter the Prince suffered from an unusually severe fit of illness. In
November the Princess Royal again visited England, accompanied by her husband.

There were cheery winter doings at Osborne, when the great household, like one large family,
rejoiced in the seasonable snow, in a slide "used by young and old," and in a "splendid snow
man." The new year was joyously danced in, though the children who were wont to assemble at
the Queen's dressing-room door to call in chorus "Prosit Neu Jahr," were beginning to be scattered
far and wide.

In January, 1860, the Queen opened Parliament in person, when for the first time the Princesses
Alice and Helena were present.

On the twentieth anniversary of the Queen's wedding-day she wrote to Baron Stockmar, "I wish
I could think I had made one as happy as he has made me."

In April the Prince of Hohenlohe-Langenberg, the Queen's brother-in- law, who was now an old
man, died at Baden, after a long illness. He had been an upright, unlucky German prince, trusted
by his contemporaries, a good husband and father--whose loss was severely felt by the widowed
Princess. Her sorrow was reflected in the Queen's sympathy for her sister.

This year's Academy Exhibition contained Millais's "Black Brunswicker," Landseer's "Flood in
the Highlands," and Phillips's "Marriage of the Princess Royal," now in the great corridor
at Windsor Castle. "The Idyls of the King," much admired by the Prince, were the poems of the year.

Among the guests at Windsor Castle for Ascot week, in addition to King Leopold, who came to
look once more on the old scene, were Prince Louis of Hesse and his younger brother. In a letter
of the Prince Consort's, written soon afterwards, he alludes to an apparent "liking" between
Prince Louis and Princess Alice.

Sir Arthur Helps, whose subsequent literary relations with the Queen were so friendly, was
sworn in Clerk of the Council on the 23rd of June.

The first great volunteer review took place in Hyde Park this summer. The Queen was present,
driving with Princess Alice, Prince Arthur, and King Leopold, while the Prince Consort rode.
The display of the twenty thousand citizen soldiers, at that time reckoned a large volunteer
force, was in every respect satisfactory. As a sequel her Majesty was also present during fine
weather, in an exceptionally wet summer, at the first meeting of the National Rifle Association
at Wimbledon, when the first shot was fired by the Queen, the rifle being so arranged that
a touch to the trigger caused the bullseye to be hit, when the shooter scored three points.

At the close of the season the Prince of Wales sailed for Canada, after he had accepted the
President of the United States' invitation to visit him at Washington. At the same time another
distant colony was to be graced by the presence of royalty; it was settled that Prince Alfred
was to land at the Cape of Good Hope. The Queen's sons were to serve her by representing her
race and rule in her far distant dominions.

In July the Princess Royal became the medium, in a letter home, of the overtures of the Hesse
family for a marriage between Prince Louis and Princess Alice--overtures favourably received
by the Queen and the Prince, who were much attracted by the young suitor. Immediately afterwards
came the intelligence of the birth of the Princess Royal's second child--a daughter.

The eyes of all Europe began to be directed to Garibaldi as the champion of freedom in Naples
and Sicily.

In August the Court went North, staying longer than usual in Edinburgh for the purpose of holding
a volunteer review in the Queen's Park, which was even a greater success than that in Hyde
Park. The summer day was cloudless; the broken nature of the ground heightened the picturesqueness
of the spectacle. There was much greater variety in the dress and accoutrements of the Highland
and Lowland regiments, numbering rather more than their English neighbours. The martial bearing
of many of the men was remarkable, and the spectators crowding Arthur's Seat from the base
to the summit were enthusiastic in their loyalty. The Queen rejoiced to have the Duchess of
Kent by her side in the open carriage. The old Duchess had not appeared at any public sight
for years, and her presence on this occasion recalled former days. She was not venturing so
far as Abergeldie, but was staying at Cramond House, near Edinburgh. Soon after the Queen and
the Prince's arrival at Balmoral the news reached them of the death of their aunt, the Duchess
of Kent's only surviving sister, the widow of the Grand- Duke Constantine of Russia.

This year the Queen and the Prince, with the Princesses Alice and Helena, made, in fine weather,
a second ascent of Ben Macdhui.

The success of such an excursion led to a longer expedition, which meant a night spent on the
way at what was little better than a village inn. Such a step was only possible when entire
secrecy, and even a certain amount of disguise, were maintained. Indeed, the little innocent
mystery, with all the amusement it brought, was part of the pleasure. The company consisted
of the Queen and the Prince, Lady Churchill and General Grey, with two keepers for attendants.
Their destination, reached by driving, riding, and walking through the shiel of the Geldie,
Glen Geldie, Glen Fishie, &c, was Grantown, where the party spent the night, and were waited
on, in all unconsciousness, by a woman in ringlets in the evening and in curl-papers in the
morning. But before Grantown was left, when the truth was known, the same benighted chambermaid
was seen waving a flag from the window of the dining and drawing-room in one, which had been
lately so honoured, while the landlady on the threshold made a vigorous use of her pocket-
handkerchief, to the edification and delight of an excited crowd in the street.

The Court returned to Osborne, and on the 22nd of September the Queen, the Prince, and Princess
Alice, with the suite, sailed from Gravesend for Antwerp en route for Coburg, where the Princess
Royal was to meet them with her husband and the child-prince, whom his grandparents had not
yet seen.

The King of the Belgians, his sons and daughter-in-law met the travellers with the melancholy
intelligence that the Prince's stepmother, the Duchess-Dowager of Coburg, who had been ill
for some time, but was looking forward to this visit, lay in extremity. At Verviers a telegram
announced that she had died at five o'clock that morning--a great shock to those who were hastening
to see her and receive her welcome once more. Royal kindred met and greeted the party at each
halting-place, as by Aix-la-Chapelle, Frankfort, where they slept, the valley of the Maine
and the Thuringen railway, the travellers approached Coburg. Naturally the Queen grew agitated
at the thought of the arrival, so different from what she had expected and experienced on her
last visit, fifteen years before. At the station were the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Prince Frederick
William of Prussia, in deep mourning. Everything was quiet and private. At the door of the
palace, in painful contrast to the gala faces and dresses of her earlier reception, stood the
Grand Duchess and the Princess Royal in the deepest German mourning, with long black veils,
the point hanging over the forehead. Around were the ladies and gentlemen of the suites. "A
tender embrace, and then we walked up the staircase," wrote the Queen; "I could hardly speak,
I felt so moved, and quite trembled." Her room was that which had formerly belonged to the
Duchess of Kent when she was a young Coburg princess. One of its windows looked up a picturesque
narrow street with red roofs and high gables, leading to the market-place. His English nurse
led in the Queen's first grandchild, aged two years, "in a little white dress with black bows."
He was charming to his royal grandmother. She particularised his youthful attractions--"A beautiful
white soft skin, very fine shoulders and limbs, and a very dear face, ... very fair curly hair."
The funeral of the Dowager-Duchess took place at seven o'clock on the morning of the 27th September,
at Gotha, and was attended by the gentlemen of the party, while the ladies in deep mourning,
wearing the pointed veils, were present at a commemorative service in the Schloss Kirche at Coburg.

Then followed a quiet happy time, among the pleasures of which were the daily visits from the
little grandchild, the renewal of intercourse with Baron Stockmar, whom Germans called the
familiar spirit of the house of Coburg; the acquaintance of the great novelist, Auerbach; a
visit to Florrschutz, the Prince's old tutor, in the pretty house which his two pupils had
built for him.

The holiday was alarmingly interrupted by what might have been a grave accident to the Prince
Consort. He was driving alone in an open carriage with four horses, which took fright and dashed
along at full gallop in the direction of the railway line, where a waggon stood in front of
a bar, put up to guard a level crossing. Seeing that a crash was inevitable, the Prince leapt
out, escaping with several bruises and cuts, while the driver, who had remained with the carriage,
was thrown out when it came in contact with the railway-bar, and seriously hurt. One of the
horses was killed, the others rushed along the road to Coburg. They were met by the Prince's
equerry, Colonel Ponsonby, who in great anxiety procured a carriage and drove with two doctors
to the spot, where he found the Prince lending aid to the injured man. Colonel Ponsonby was
sent to intercept the Queen as she was walking and sketching with her daughter and sister-in-law,
to tell her of the accident and of the Prince's escape, before she could hear a garbled version
of the affair from other quarters.

In deep gratitude for the Prince's preservation, her Majesty afterwards set aside the sum deemed
necessary--rather more than a thousand pounds--to found a charity called the "Victoria Stift,"
which helps a certain number of young men and women of good character in their apprenticeship,
in setting them up in trade, and marriage.

The royal party returned at the end of a fortnight by Frankfort and Mayence. At Coblentz, where
they spent the night, her Majesty was attacked by cold and sore throat, though she walked and
drove out next day, inspecting every object she was asked to see in suffering and discomfort.
It was her last day with the Princess Royal and "the darling little boy," whom his grandmother
was so pleased to have with her, running about and playing in her room. The following day was
cold and wet, and the Queen felt still worse, continuing her journey so worn out and unwell
that she could only rouse herself before reaching Brussels, where King Leopold was at the station
awaiting her. By the order of her doctor, who found her labouring under a feverish cold with
severe sore throat, she was confined to her room, where she had to lie down and keep quiet.
Never in the whole course of her Majesty's healthful life, save in one girlish illness at Ramsgate,
of which the world knew nothing, had she felt so ailing. Happily a night's rest restored her
to a great extent; but while a State dinner which had been invited in her honour was going
on, she had still to stay in her room, with Lady Churchill reading to her "The Mill on the
Floss," and the door open that the Queen might hear the band of the Guides.

On the 17th of October the travellers left Brussels, and on the 17th arrived at Windsor, where
they were met by the younger members of the family.

On the 30th of October the great sea captain, Lord Dundonald, closed his chequered life in
his eighty-fifth year.

In December two gallant wooers were at the English Court, as a few years before King Pedro,
the Arch-Duke Maximilian, and Prince Frederick William were all young bridegrooms in company.
On this occasion Prince Louis of Hesse-Darmstadt came to win Princess Alice, and the hereditary
Prince of Hohenzollern Seigmaringen was on his way to ask the hand of Donna Antoine, sister
of King Pedro. Lord Campbell paid a visit to Windsor at this time, and made his comment on
the royal lovers. "My stay at Windsor was rather dull, but was a little enhanced by the loves
of Prince Louis of Hesse and the Princess Alice. He had arrived the night before, almost a
stranger to her" (a mistake), "but as her suitor. At first they were very shy, but they soon
reminded me of Ferdinand and Miranda in the Tempest, and I looked on like old Prospero."

The betrothal of Princess Alice occurred within the week. Her Majesty has given an account
in the pages of her journal, transferred to the "Life of the Prince Consort," how simply and
naturally it happened. Alice came to our room ... agitated but quiet.... Albert sent for Louis
to his room, went first to him, and then called Alice and me in...." The bride was only seventeen,
the bridegroom twenty-three years of age--but nearly two years were to elapse, with, alas!
sad changes in their course, before the marriage thus happily settled was celebrated.

This winter her Majesty's old servant and friend, Lord Aberdeen, died.

In December the Empress of the French, who had recently lost her sister, the Duchess of Alba,
in order to recover health and cheerfulness, paid a flying visit in private to England and
Scotland. From Claridge's Hotel she went for a day to Windsor to see the Queen and the Prince.
Towards the close of the year the Prince had a brief but painful attack of one of the gastric
affections becoming so common with him.

In January, 1861, the Queen received the news of the death of the invalid King of Prussia at
Sans Souci. His brother, the Crown Prince, who had been regent for years, succeeded to the
throne, of which the husband of the Princess Royal was now the next heir.

In the beginning of the year the Prince of Wales matriculated at Cambridge.

In February the Queen opened Parliament. The twenty-first anniversary of the royal wedding-day
falling on a Sunday, it was celebrated quietly but with much happiness.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

DEATH OF THE DUCHESS OF KENT.

The Duchess of Kent was now seventy-five years of age. For the last few years she had been
in failing health, tenderly cared for by her children. When she had been last in town she had
not gone to her own house, Clarence House, but had stayed with her daughter in the cheerful
family circle at Buckingham Palace.

A loss in her household fell heavily on the aged Duchess. Sir George Cooper, her secretary,
to whose services she had been used for many years, a man three years her junior, died in February,
1860.

In March the Duchess underwent a surgical operation for a complaint affecting her right arm
and rendering it useless, so that the habits of many years had to be laid aside, and she could
no longer without difficulty work, or write, or play on the piano, of which her musical talent
and taste had made her particularly fond. The Queen and the Prince visited the Duchess at Frogmore
on the 12th of March, and found her in a suffering but apparently not a dangerous condition.

On the 15th good news, including the medical men's report and a letter from Lady Augusta Bruce,
the Duchess of Kent's attached lady-in- waiting, came from Frogmore to Buckingham Palace, and
the Queen and the Prince went without any apprehension on a visit to the gardens of the Horticultural
Society at Kensington. Her Majesty returned alone, leaving the Prince to transact some business.
She was "resting quite happily" in her arm-chair, when the Prince arrived with a message from
Sir James Clark that the Duchess had been seized with a shivering fit-- a bad symptom, from
which serious consequences were apprehended.

In two hours the Queen, the Prince, and Princess Alice were at Frogmore. "Just the same," was
the sorrowful answer given by the ladies and gentlemen awaiting them.

The Prince Consort went up to the Duchess's room and came back with tears in his eyes; then
the Queen knew what to expect. With a trembling heart she followed her husband and entered
the bedroom. There "on a sofa, supported by cushions, the room much darkened," sat the Duchess,
"leaning back, breathing heavily in her silk dressing- gown, with her cap on, looking quite
herself"

For a second the sight of the dear familiar figure, so little changed, must have afforded a
brief reprieve, and lent a sense of almost glad incredulity to the distress which had gone
before. But the well-meant whisper of one of the attendants of "Ein sanftes ende" destroyed
the passing illusion. I went out to sob.... I asked the doctors if there was no hope; they
said they feared none whatever, for consciousness had left her.... It was suffusion of water
on the chest which had come on."

The long night passed in sad watching by the unconscious sufferer, and in vain attempts at
rest in preparation for the greater sorrow that was in store.

A few months earlier, on the death of the King of Prussia, the Prince Consort had written to
his daughter that her experience exceeded his, for he had never seen any person die. The Queen
had been equally unacquainted with the mournful knowledge which comes to most even before they
have attained mature manhood and womanhood. Now the loving daughter knelt or stood by the mother
who was leaving her without a sign, or lay painfully listening to the homely trivial sounds
which broke the stillness of the night--the crowing of a cock, the dogs barking in the distance;
the striking of the old repeater which had belonged to the Queen's father, that she had heard
every night in her childhood, but to which she had not listened for twenty-three years-- the
whole of her full happy married life. She wondered with the vague piteous wonder--natural in
such a case--what her mother, would have thought of her passing a night under her roof again,
and she not to know it?

In the March morning the Prince took the Queen from the room in which she could not rest, yet
from which she could not remain absent. When she returned windows and doors were thrown open.
The Queen sat down on a footstool and held the Duchess's hand, while the paleness of death
stole over the face, and the features grew longer and sharper. "I fell on my knees," her Majesty
wrote afterwards, "holding the beloved hand which was still warm and soft, though heavier,
in both of mine. I felt the end was fast approaching, as Clark went out to call Albert and
Alice, I only left gazing on that beloved face, and feeling as if my heart would break....
It was a solemn, sacred, never-to-be-forgotten scene. Fainter and fainter grew the breathing;
at last it ceased, but there was no change of countenance, nothing; the eyes closed as they
had been for the last half-hour.... The clock struck half-past nine at the very moment. Convulsed
with sobs I fell on the hand and covered it with kisses. Albert lifted me up and took me into
the next room, himself entirely melted into tears, which is unusual for him, deep as his feelings
are, and clasped me in his arms. I asked if all was over; he said, "Yes." I went into the room
again after a few minutes and gave one look. My darling mother was sitting as she had done
before, but was already white. Oh, God! how awful, how mysterious! But what a blessed end.
Her gentle spirit at rest, her sufferings over."

By the Prince's advice the Queen went at once to the late Duchess's sitting-room, where it
was hard to bear the unchanged look of everything, "Chairs, cushions ... all on the tables,
her very work- basket with her work; the little canary bird which she was so fond of, singing!"

In one of the recently published letters of Princess Alice to the Queen, the former recalled
after an interval of eight years the words which her father had spoken to her on the death
of her grandmother, when he brought the daughter to the mother and said, "Comfort mamma," a
simple injunction which sounded like a solemn charge in the sad months to come.

The melancholy tidings of the loss were conveyed by the Queen's hand to the Duchess's elder
daughter, the Princess of Hohenlohe; to the Duchess's brother, the King of the Belgians--the
last survivor of his family--and to her eldest grand-daughter, the Crown Princess of Prussia.

The moment the Princess Royal heard of the death she started for England, and arrived there
two days afterwards.

The unaffected tribute of respect paid by the whole country, led by the Houses of Parliament,
to the virtues of the late Duchess, was very welcome to the mourners. The Duchess of Kent by
her will bequeathed her property to the Queen, and appointed the Prince Consort her sole executor.
"He was so tender and kind," wrote the Queen, "so pained to have to ask me distressing questions,
but spared me so much. Everything done so quickly and feelingly."

The funeral took place on the 25th of March, in the vault beneath St. George's Chapel, Windsor.
The Prince Consort acted as chief mourner, and was supported by two of the grandchildren of
the late Duchess, the Prince of Wales and the Prince of Leiningen. The pallbearers were six
ladies; among whom was Lady Augusta Bruce. Neither the Queen nor her daughters were present.
They remained, in the Queen's words, "to pray at home together, and to dwell on the happiness
and peace of her who was gone." On the evening of the funeral the Queen and the Prince dined
alone; afterwards he read aloud to her letters written by her mother to a German friend, giving
an account of the illness and death of the Duke of Kent more than forty years before. The Queen
continued the allowances which the Duchess of Kent had made to her elder daughter, the Princess
Hohenlohe, and to two of the duchess's grandsons, Prince Victor Hohenlohe and Prince Edward
Leiningen. Her Majesty pensioned the Duchess's servants, and appointed Lady Augusta Bruce,
who had been like a daughter to the dead Princess, resident bedchamber woman to the Queen.

Frogmore had been much frequented by Queen Charlotte and her daughters, and was the place where
they held many of their family festivals. It had been the country house of Princess Augusta
for more than twenty years. On her death it was given to the Duchess of Kent. It is an unpretending
white country house, spacious enough, and with all the taste of the day when it was built expended
on the grounds, which does not prevent them from lying very low, with the inevitable sheet
of water almost beneath the windows. Yet it is a lovely, bowery, dwelling when spring buds
are bursting and the birds are filling the air with music; such a sheltered, peaceful, home-like
house as an ageing woman well might crave. On it still lingers, in spite of a period when it
passed into younger hands, the stamp of the old Duchess, with her simple state, her unaffected
dignity, her affectionate interest in her numerous kindred. The place is but a bowshot from
the old grey castle of Windsor. It was a chosen resort of the royal children, to whom the noble,
kind, grandame was all that gracious age can be. Here the Queen brought the most distinguished
of her guests to present them to her mother, who had known so many of the great men of her
time. Here the royal daughter herself came often, leaving behind her the toils of government
and the ceremonies of rank, where she could always be at ease, was always more than welcome.
Here she comes still, after twenty years, to view old scenes--the chair by which she sat when
the Duchess of Kent occupied it, the piano she knew so well, the familiar portraits, the old-fashioned
furniture, suiting the house admirably, the drooping trees on the lawn, under which the Queen
would breakfast in fine weather, according to an old Kensington --an old German--custom.

The long verandah was wont to contain vases of flowers and statues of the Duchess's grandchildren,
and formed a pleasant promenade for an old lady. Within the smaller, cosier rooms, with the
softly tinted pink walls covered with portraits, was led the daily life which as it advanced
in infirmity necessarily narrowed in compass, while the State rooms remained for family and
Court gatherings. The last use made of the great drawing-room by its venerable mistress was
after her death, when she lay in state there.

Half-length portraits of the Duke and Duchess of Kent are in the place usually occupied by
the likenesses of the master and mistress of the house. Among the other pictures are full-length
portraits of the Queen and Prince Albert in their youth, taken soon after their marriage--
like the natural good end to the various pictures of her Majesty in her fair English childhood
and maidenhood, with the blonde hair clustering about the open innocent forehead, the fearless
blue eyes, the frank mouth. The child, long a widow in her turn, a mother, grandmother, great-grandmother,
must look with strange mingled feelings on these shadows of her early, unconscious self.

There are innumerable likenesses of the Queen's children such as a loving grandmother would
delight to accumulate, from the baby Princess Royal with the good dog Eos curled round by her
side, the child's tiny foot on the hound's nose, to the same Princess a blooming girl-bride
by the side of her bridegroom, Prince Frederick William of Prussia.

The Duchess's other children and grandchildren are here on canvas, with many portraits of her
brothers and sisters and their children. A full-length likeness of the former owner of Frogmore,
Princess Augusta, Fanny Burney's beloved princess, hangs above a chimneypiece; while on the
walls of another room quaintly painted floral festoons, the joint work of the painter, Mary
Moser, and the artistic Princess Elizabeth, are still preserved.

Frogmore was for some years the residence of Princess Christian of Schleswig-Holstein. When
she removed to Cumberland House, the furniture which had belonged to the Duchess of Kent was
brought back, and the place restored as much as possible to the condition in which she had
left it, which implies the presence of many cherished relics-- such as the timepiece which
was the last gift of the Queen and the Prince, and a picture said to have been painted by both
representing Italian peasants praying beside a roadside calvary. There are numerous tokens
of womanly tastes in the gay, bright fashion of the Duchess's time, among them a gorgeously
tinted inlaid table from the first Exhibition, and elaborate specimens of Berlin woolwork,
offerings from friends of the mistress of the house and from the ladies of her suite. In one
of the simply furnished bedrooms of quiet little Frogmore, as it chanced, the heir of the Prince
of Wales first saw the light. For here was born unexpectedly, making a great stir in the little
household, Prince Victor Albert of Wales.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

LAST VISIT TO IRELAND--HIGHLAND EXCURSIONS--MEETING OF THE PRINCE OF WALES AND THE PRINCESS
ALEXANDRA OF DENMARK--DEATH OF THE KINO OF PORTUGAL AND HIS BROTHERS

In the retirement of Osborne the Queen mourned her mother with the tender fidelity which her
people have learnt to know and reverence.

In April the Court returned to Buckingham Palace, when the Queen announced the marriage of
the Princess Alice to the Privy Council It was communicated to Parliament, and was very favourably
received. The Princess had a dowry of thirty thousand, and an annuity of six thousand pounds
from the country.

The Queen's birthday was celebrated at Osborne without the usual festivities. During the Whitsun
holidays Prince Louis, who was with the family, had the misfortune to be attacked by measles,
which he communicated to Prince Leopold. The little boy had the disease severely, and it left
bad results.

In June King Leopold and one of his sons paid the Queen a lengthened visit of five weeks. The
Princess Royal, with her husband and children, arrived afterwards, and there was a happy family
meeting, tinged with sorrow.

In July the most exalted Order of the Star of India was instituted, and conferred first on
the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh, Lord Clyde, Sir John Lawrence, &c., &c. That summer saw the death
of two statesmen who had been men of mark in the Crimean war--Count Cavour, the Sardinian Prime
Minister, and Lord Herbert of Lea. The royal visitors in London and at Osborne included the
Archduke Maximilian and his young wife, and the King of Sweden and his son.

Towards the close of August the Queen went to Frogmore with the Prince and Princess Alice,
in order to keep the birthday of the late Duchess of Kent, whose remains had been already removed
from St. George's chapel to the mausoleum prepared for them in the grounds of her former home.
The Queen wrote of the first evening at Frogmore as "terribly trying;" but it comforted her
in the beautiful morning to visit the grand simple mausoleum, and to help to place on the granite
sarcophagus the wreaths which had been brought for the purpose.

The day after the return of Prince Alfred from the West Indies, the Queen and the Prince, their
second son and the Princesses Alice and Helena, sailed from Holyhead in the Victoria and Albert
for Kingstown. This visit to Ireland meant also the royal presence on a field-day in the Curragh
camp, where the Prince of Wales was serving, and a run down to Killarney in very hot weather.
At the lakes the Queen was the guest of Lord Castleross and Mr. Herbert. The wild luxuriant
scenery, the size and beauty of the arbutus-trees, and the enthusiastic shriek of the blue-cloaked
women, made their due impression. In a row on one of the lakes her Majesty christened a point.
The Prince's birthday came round during the stay in Ireland, and was marked by the usual loving
tokens, though the Queen noted sadly the difference between this and other anniversaries: the
lack of festivities, the absence from home, the separation from the younger children, and the
missing the old invariable gift from the Duchess of Kent.

Balmoral was reached in the beginning of September. Prince Louis came speedily, and another
welcome guest, Princess Hohenlohe, who travelled north with Lady Augusta Bruce. Dr. Norman
Macleod gives a glimpse of the circumstances and the circle. He preached to the Queen, and
she thanked him for the comfort he gave her. Lady Augusta Bruce talked to him of "that noble,
loving woman, the Duchess of Kent, and of the Queen's grief." He found the Queen's half-sister
"an admirable woman" and Prince Alfred "a fine gentlemanly sailor."

