"I'm sure I am all right," answered Linda. "I have falling down mountains reduced to an exact
science. I'll bet you couldn't slide that far and bring down Coty without a scratch."

"Well, which is the more precious," said the young man. "Yourself or the specimen?"

"Why, the specimen!" answered Linda in impatience. "California is full of girls; but this is
the finest Cotyledon of this family I have ever seen. Don't mistake this for any common stonecrop.
It looks to me like an Echeveria. I know what I mean to do with the picture I have made of
her, and I know exactly where she is going to grow from this day on."

"Is there any way we can help you?" inquired the elder of the two men.

For the first time Linda glanced at him, and her impression was that he was decidedly attractive.

"No, thank you!" she answered briskly. "I am going to climb back up to the boulder and collect
the belongings I spilled on the way down. Then I am going to carry Coty to the car line in
a kind of triumphal march, because she is the rarest find that I have ever made. I hope you
have no dark designs on Coty, because this is 'what the owner had to do to redeem her.'"

Linda indicated her trail down the canyon side, brushed soil and twigs from her trousers, turned
her straight young back, carefully set down her specimen, and by the aid of her recovered stick
began expertly making her way up the canyon side. "Here, let me do that," offered the younger
man. "You rest until I collect your belongings." Linda glanced back over her shoulder. "Thanks,"
she said. "I have a mental inventory of all the pencils and knives and trowels I must find.
You might overlook the most important part of my paraphernalia; and really I am not damaged.
I'm merely hurt. Good-bye!"

Linda started back up the side of the canyon, leaving the young men to enter their car and
drive away. For a minute both of them stood watching her.

"What will girls be wearing and doing next?" asked the elder of the two as he started his car.

"What would you have a girl wear when she is occupied with coasting down canyons?" said his
friend. "And as for what she is doing, it's probable that every high-school girl in Los Angeles
has a botanical collection to make before she graduates."

"I see!" said the man driving. "She is only a high-school kid, but did you notice that she
is going to make an extremely attractive young woman?"

"Yes, I noticed just that; I noticed it very particularly," answered the younger man. "And
I noticed also that she either doesn't know it, or doesn't give a flip."

  Linda collected her belongings, straightened her hair and
clothing, and, with her knapsack in place, and leaning rather on heavily
on her walking stick, made her way down the road to the abutment of a
small rustic bridge where she stopped to rest. The stream at her feet
was noisy and icy cold. It rushed through narrow defiles in the rock,
beat itself to foam against the faces a of the big stones, fell over
jutting cliffs, spread in whispering pools, wound back and forth
across the road at its will, singing every foot of its downward way
and watering beds of crisp, cool miners' lettuce, great ferns, and
heliotrope, climbing clematis, soil and blue-eyed grass. All along
its length grew willows, and in a few places white-bodied sycamores.
Everywhere over the walls red above it that vegetation could find a
footing grew mosses, vines, flowers, and shrubs. On the shadiest side
homed most of the ferns and the Cotyledon. In the sun, larkspur, lupin,
and monkey flower; everywhere wild rose, holly, mahogany, gooseberry,
and bayoneted yucca all intermingling in a curtain of variegated greens,
brocaded with flower arabesques of vivid red, white, yellow, and blue.
Canyon wrens and vireos sang as they nested. The air was clear, cool,
and salty from the near-by sea. Myriad leaf shadows danced on the black
roadbed, level as a barn floor, and across it trailed the wavering
image of hawk and vulture, gull and white sea swallow. Linda studied the
canyon with intent eyes, but bruised flesh pleaded, so reluctantly she
arose, shouldered her belongings, and slowly followed the road out to
the car line that passed through Lilac Valley, still carefully bearing
in triumph the precious Cotyledon. An hour later she entered the
driveway of her home. She stopped to set her plant carefully in the wild
garden she and her father had worked all her life at collecting, then
followed the back porch and kitchen route.

"Whatever have ye been doing to yourself, honey?" cried Katy.

"I came a cropper down Multiflores Canyon where it is so steep that it leans the other way.
I pretty well pulverized myself for a pulverulent, Katy, which is a poor joke."

"Now ain't that just my luck!" wailed Katy, snatching a cake cutter and beginning hurriedly
to stamp out little cakes from the dough before her.

"Well, I don't understand in exactly what way," said Linda, absently rubbing her elbows and
her knees. "Seems to me it's my promontories that have been knocked off, not yours, Katy."

"Yes, and ain't it just like ye," said Katy, "to be coming in late, and all banged up when
Miss Eileen has got sudden notice that there is going to be company again and I have an especial
dinner to serve, and never in the world can I manage if ye don't help me!"

"Why, who is coming now?" asked Linda, seating herself on the nearest chair and beginning to
unfasten her boots slowly.

"Well, first of all, there is Mr. Gilman, of course."

"'Of course,'" conceded Linda. "If he tried to get past our house, Eileen is perfectly capable
of setting it on fire to stop him. She's got him 'vamped' properly."

"Oh I don't know that ye should say just that," said Katy "Eileen is a mighty pretty girl,
and she is SOME manager."

"You can stake your hilarious life she is," said Linda, viciously kicking a boot to the center
of the kitchen. "She can manage to go downtown for lunch and be invited out to dinner thirteen
times a week, and leave us at home to eat bread and milk, bread heavily stressed. She can manage
to get every cent of the income from the property in her fingers, and a great big girl like
me has to go to high school looking so tacky that even the boys are beginning to comment on
it. Manage, I'll say she can manage, not to mention managing to snake John Gilman right out
of Marian's fingers. I doubt if Marian fully realizes yet that she's lost her man; and I happen
to know that she just plain loved John!"

The second boot landed beside the first, then Linda picked them both up and started toward
the back hall.

"Honey, are ye too bad hurt to help me any?" asked Katy, as she passed her.

"Of course not," said Linda. "Give me a few minutes to take a bath and step into my clothes
and then I'll be on the job."

With a black scowl on her face, Linda climbed the dingy back stairway in her stocking-feet.
At the head of the stairs she paused one minute, glanced at the gloom of her end of the house,
then she turned and walked to the front of the hall where there were potted ferns, dainty white
curtains, and bright rugs. The door of the guest room stood open and she could see that it
was filled with fresh flowers and ready for occupancy. The door of her sister's room was slightly
ajar and she pushed it open and stood looking inside. In her state of disarray she made a shocking
contrast to the flowerlike figure busy before a dressing table. Linda was dark, narrow, rawboned,
overgrown in height, and forthright of disposition. Eileen was a tiny woman, delicately moulded,
exquisitely colored, and one of the most perfectly successful tendrils from the original clinging
vine in her intercourse with men, and with such women as would tolerate the clinging-vine idea
in the present forthright days. With a strand of softly curled hair in one hand and a fancy
pin in the other, Eileen turned a disapproving look upon her sister.

"What's the great idea?" demanded Linda shortly.

"Oh, it's perfectly splendid," answered Eileen. "John Gilman's best friend is motoring around
here looking for a location to build a home. He is an author and young and good looking and
not married, and he thinks he would like to settle somewhere near Los Angeles. Of course John
would love to have him in Lilac Valley because he hopes to build a home here some day for himself.
His name is Peter Morrison and John says that his articles and stories have horse sense, logic,
and humor, and he is making a lot of money."

"Then God help John Gilman, if he thinks now that he is in love with you," said Linda dryly.

Eileen arched her eyebrows, thinned to a hair line, and her lips drew together in disapproval.

"What I can't understand," she said, "is how you can be so unspeakably vulgar, Linda."

Linda laughed sharply.

"And this Peter Morrison and John are our guests for dinner?"

"Yes," said Eileen. "I am going to show them this valley inside and out. I'm so glad it's spring.
We're at our very best. It would be perfectly wonderful to have an author for a neighbor, and
he must be going to build a real house, because he has his architect with him; and John says
that while he is young, he has done several awfully good houses. He has seen a couple of them
in in San Francisco."

Linda shrugged her shoulders.

"Up the flue goes Marian's chance of drawing the plans for John Gilman's house," she said.
"I have heard him say a dozen times he would not build a house unless Marian made the plans."

Eileen deftly placed the strand of hair and set the jewelled pin with precision.

"Just possibly things have changed slightly," she suggested.

"Yes," said Linda, "I observe that they have. Marian has sold the home she adored. She is leaving
friends she loved and trusted, and who were particularly bound to her by a common grief without
realizing exactly how it is happening. She certainly must know that you have taken her lover,
and I have not a doubt but that is the reason she has discovered she can no longer work at
home, that she must sell her property and spend the money cooped up in a city, to study her
profession further."

"Linda," said Eileen, her face pale with anger, "you are positively insufferable. Will you
leave my room and close the door after you?"

"Well, Katy has just informed me," said Linda, "that this dinner party doesn't come off without
my valued assistance, and before I agree to assist, I'll know ONE thing. Are you proposing
to entertain these three men yourself, or have you asked Marian?"

Eileen indicated an open note lying on her dressing table.

"I did not know they were coming until an hour ago," she said. "I barely had time to fill the
vases and dust, and then I ran up to dress so that there would be someone presentable when
they arrive."

"All right then, we'll agree that this is a surprise party, but if John Gilman has told you
so much about them, you must have been expecting them, and in a measure prepared for them at
any time. Haven't you talked it over with Marian, and told her that you would want her when
they came?"

Eileen was extremely busy with another wave of hair. She turned her back and her voice was
not quite steady as she answered. "Ever since Marian got this 'going to the city to study'
idea in her head I have scarcely seen her. She had an awful job to empty the house, and pack
such things as she wants to keep, and she is working overtime on a very special plan that she
thinks maybe she'll submit in a prize competition offered by a big firm of San Francisco architects,
so I have scarcely seen her for six weeks."

"And you never once went over to help her with her work, or to encourage her or to comfort
her? You can't think Marian can leave this valley and not be almost heartbroken," said Linda.
"You just make me almost wonder at you. When you think of the kind of friends that Marian Thorne's
father and mother, and our father and mother were, and how we children were reared together,
and the good times we have had in these two houses--and then the awful day when the car went
over the cliff, and how Marian clung to us and tried to comfort us, when her own health was
broken--and Marian's the same Marian she has always been, only nicer every day--how you can
sit there and say you have scarcely seen her in six of the hardest weeks of her life, certainly
surprises me. I'll tell you this: I told Katy I would help her, but I won't do it if you don't
go over and make Marian come tonight."

Eileen turned to her sister and looked at her keenly. Linda's brow was sullen, and her jaw set.

"A bed would look mighty good to me and I will go and get into mine this minute if you don't
say you will go and ask her, in such a way that she comes," she threatened.

Eileen hesitated a second and then said: "All right, since you make such a point of it I will
ask her."

"Very well," said Linda. "Then I'll help Katy the very best I can."

CHAPTER III. The House of Dreams

In less than an hour, Linda was in the kitchen, dressed in an old green skirt and an orange
blouse. Katy pinned one of her aprons on the girl and told her that her first job was to set
the table.

"And Miss Eileen has given most particular orders that I use the very best of everything. Lay
the table for four, and you are to be extremely careful in serving not to spill the soup."

Linda stood very quietly for a second, her heavy black brows drawn together in deep thought.

"When did Eileen issue these instructions?" she inquired.

"Not five minutes ago," said Katy. "She just left me kitchen and I'll say I never saw her lookin'
such a perfect picture. That new dress of hers is the most becoming one she has ever had."

Almost unconsciously, Linda's hand reached to the front of her well-worn blouse, and she glanced
downward at her skirt and shoes.

"Um-hm," she said meditatively, "another new dress for Eileen, which means that I will get
nothing until next month's allowance comes in, if I do then. The table set for four, which,
interpreted, signifies that she has asked Marian in such a way that Marian won't come. And
the caution as to care with the soup means that I am to serve my father's table like a paid
waitress. Katy, I have run for over three years on Eileen's schedule, but this past year I
am beginning to use my brains and I am reaching the place of self-assertion. That programme
won't do, Katy. It's got to be completely revised. You just watch me and see how I follow those
instructions."

Then Linda marched out of the kitchen door and started across the lawn in the direction of
a big brown house dimly outlined through widely spreading branches of ancient live oaks, palm,
and bamboo thickets. She entered the house without knocking and in the hall uttered a low penetrating
whistle. It was instantly answered from upstairs. Linda began climbing, and met Marian at the top.

"Why, Marian," she cried, "I had no idea you were so far along. The house is actually empty."

"Practically everything went yesterday," answered Marian. "Those things of Father's and Mother's
and my own that I wish to keep I have put in storage, and the remainder went to James's Auction
Rooms. The house is sold, and I am leaving in the morning."

"Then that explains," questioned Linda, "why you refused Eileen's invitation to dinner tonight?"

"On the contrary," answered Marian, "an invitation to dinner tonight would be particularly
and peculiarly acceptable to me, since the kitchen is barren as the remainder of the house,
and I was intending to slip over when your room was lighted to ask if I might spend the night
with you."

Linda suddenly gathered her friend in her arms and held her tight.

"Well, thank heaven that you felt sufficiently sure of me to come to me when you needed me.
Of course you shall spend the night with me; and I must have been mistaken in thinking Eileen
had been here. She probably will come any minute. There are guests for the night. John is bringing
that writer friend of his. Of course you know about him. It's Peter Morrison."

Marian nodded her head. "Of course! John has always talked of him. He had some extremely clever
articles in The Post lately."

"Well, he is one," said Linda, "and an architect who is touring with him is two; they are looking
for a location to build a house for the writer. You can see that it would be a particularly
attractive feather in our cap if he would endorse our valley sufficiently to home in it. So
Eileen has invited them to sample our brand of entertainment, and in the morning no doubt she
will be delighted to accompany them and show them all the beautiful spots not yet preempted."

"Oh, heavens," cried Marian, "I'm glad I never showed her my spot!"

"Well, if you are particular about wanting a certain place I sincerely hope you did not," said
Linda.

"I am sure I never did," answered Marian. "I so love one spot that I have been most secretive
about it. I am certain I never went further than to say there was a place on which I would
love to build for myself the house of my dreams. I have just about finished getting that home
on paper, and I truly have high hopes that I may stand at least a fair chance of winning with
it the prize Nicholson and Snow are offering. That is one of the reasons why I am hurrying
on my way to San Francisco much sooner than I had expected to go. I haven't a suitable dinner
dress because my trunks have gone, but among such old friends it won't matter. I have one fussy
blouse in my bag, and I'll be over as soon as I can see to closing up the house and dressing."

Linda hurried home, and going to the dining room, she laid the table for six in a deft and
artistic manner. She filled a basket with beautiful flowers of her own growing for a centerpiece,
and carefully followed Eileen's instruction to use the best of everything. When she had finished
she went to the kitchen.

"Katy," she said, "take a look at my handiwork."

"It's just lovely," said Katy heartily.

"I quite agree with you," answered Linda, "and now in pursuance of a recently arrived at decision,
I have resigned, vamoosed, quit, dead stopped being waitress for Eileen. I was seventeen my
last birthday. Hereafter when there are guests I sit at my father's table, and you will have
to do the best you can with serving, Katy."

"And it's just exactly right ye are," said Katy. "I'll do my best, and if that's not good enough,
Miss Eileen knows what she can do."

"Now listen to you," laughed Linda. "Katy, you couldn't be driven to leave me, by anything
on this earth that Eileen could do; you know you couldn't."

Katy chuckled quietly. "Sure, I wouldn't be leaving ye, lambie," she said. "We'll get everything
ready, and I can serve I six as nicely as anyone. But you're not forgetting that Miss Eileen
said most explicit to lay the table for FOUR?'

"I am not forgetting," said Linda. "For Eileen's sake I am I sorry to say that her ship is
on the shoals. She is not going to have clear sailing with little sister Linda any longer.
This is the year of woman's rights, you know, Katy, and I am beginning to realize that my rights
have been badly infringed upon for lo these many years. If Eileen chooses to make a scene before
guests, that is strictly up to Eileen. Now what is it you want me to do?"

Katy directed and Linda worked swiftly. Soon they heard a motor stop, and laughing voices told
them that the guests had arrived.

"Now I wonder," said Linda, "whether Marian is here yet."

At that minute Marian appeared at the kitchen door.

"Linda," she said breathlessly, "I am feeling queer about this. Eileen hasn't been over."

"Oh, that's all right," said Linda casually. "The folks have come, and she was only waiting
to make them a bit at home before she ran after you."

Marian hesitated.

"She was not allowing me much time to dress."

"That's 'cause she knew you did not need it," retorted Linda. "The more you fuss up, the less
handsome you are, and you never owned anything in your life so becoming as that old red blouse.
So farewell, Katy, we're due to burst into high society tonight. We're going to help Eileen
vamp a lawyer, and an author, and an architect, one apiece. Which do you prefer, Marian?"

"I'll take the architect," said Marian. "We should have something in common since I am going
to be a great architect myself one of these days."

"Why, that is too bad," said Linda. "I'll have to rearrange the table if you insist, because
I took him, and left you the author, and it was for love of you I did it. I truly wanted him
myself, all the time."

They stopped in the dining room and Marian praised Linda's work in laying the table; and then,
together they entered the living room.

At the moment of their entrance, Eileen was talking animatedly about the beauties of the valley
as a location for a happy home. When she saw the two girls she paused, the color swiftly faded
from her face, and Linda, who was watching to see what would happen, noticed the effort she
made at self-control, but she was very sure that their guests did not.

It never occurred to Linda that anyone would consider good looks in connection with her overgrown,
rawboned frame and lean face, but she was accustomed to seeing people admire Marian, for Marian
was a perfectly modeled woman with peach bloom cheeks, deep, dark eyes, her face framed in
a waving mass of hair whose whiteness dated from the day that the brakes of her car failed
and she plunged down the mountain with her father beside her, and her mother and Doctor and
Mrs. Strong in the back seat. Ten days afterward Marian's head of beautiful dark hair was muslin
white. Now it framed a face of youth and beauty with peculiar pathos. "Striking" was perhaps
the one adjective which would best describe her.

John Gilman came hastily to greet them. Linda, after a swift glance at Eileen, turned astonished
eyes on their guests. For one second she looked at the elder of them, then at the younger.
There was no recognition in her eyes, and there was a decided negative in a swift movement
of her head. Both men understood that she did not wish them to mention that they ever had seen
her previously. For an instant there was a strained situation. Eileen was white with anger.
John Gilman was looking straight at Marian, and in his soul he must have wondered if he had
been wise in neglecting her for Eileen. Peter Morrison and his architect, Henry Anderson, had
two things to think about. One was the stunning beauty of Marian Thorne as she paused in the
doorway, the light misting her white hair and deepening the tints of her red waist The other
was why the young girl facing them had forbidden them to reveal that two hours before they
had seen her in the canyon. Katy, the efficient life-saver of the Strong family, announced
dinner, and Linda drew back the curtains and led the way to the dining room, saying when they
had arrived: "I didn't have time in my hour's notice to make elaborate place cards as I should
have liked to do, so these little pen sketches will have to serve."

To cover his embarrassment and to satisfy his legal mind, John Gilman turned to Linda, asking:
"Why 'an hour'? I told Eileen a week ago I was expecting the boys today."

