CHAFF-CUTTER.--To make Dodo's eggs, take a solution of ext. turp. rutifolia, and boil for two
hours. Then simmer on a slow fire, add two pinches of salt, and the hard part of a bullock's
hide. Pass through a common sieve, and hatch out under a tame Pterodactyl.

GARDEN.--VENDITUS ITERUM.--The bark of the dog-rose is naturally worse than the Bight of Benin.
The one you sent us had no dew-claws. Quite right; it has had its day. So has Martin.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ECCLESIASTICAL INTELLIGENCE."

Under this heading the Times, some days ago, informed us that a certain set of Oxford Dons
had met together in order to make arrangements for the establishment in the University of a
couple of first-class Evangelical Clergymen, possessing "special gifts," to whom such Undergraduates
as might be piously inclined could go for instruction and good counsel. It was stated, in their
sketch of a prospectus of this scheme, that these two grave and reverend Gentlemen are to be
"accessible at all times." This is excellent. Also, "they will be given to hospitality," which
is still more excellent, and let us hope that, in return, hospitality will be given to them.
But it is difficult to combine "accessibility at all times" with perpetual festivities. For
how would it suit either of these well-intentioned Clergymen, after the hospitalities of an
ordinary day, commencing with University Breakfast, going on to University Lunch, thence to
University Tea, then dinner, wine, and, finally, supper, to be accessible to anyone who chose
to ring them up during the small hours to ask for "counsel and advice so judicious and so sound"?
Very "special" indeed would have to be the "gifts" of the two always-hospitable and ever-accessible
Clergymen, who would undertake the mission; and, among their most essential special qualifications,
would have to be, first, the capacity for taking any amount of everything without being in
the least the worse for it, and, secondly, the capacity of perpetual wakefulness and clear-headedness,
without the extraneous and artificial application of wet towels round the head. Men with such
special gifts are, indeed, rare; nay, they are demi-gods. But, if such men are to be found,
no matter at what cost, we sincerely wish they (the originators of this scheme) may get them.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIXED NOTIONS.

No. IX.--PARISH COUNCILS.

(Scene and Persons as usual.)

Inquirer (to himself, as he reads his paper). Well, I'm dashed! What the blue blazes does all
this stuff mean?

First Well-informed Man (to Second W. I. M., in a tone of pitying good-humour, mixed with conscious
superiority). He's got started on his usual morning puzzle.

Inquirer (with asperity). Oh, it's all very well for you two chaps to sneer. You're both older
than I am, and, as you've been about more, you ought to know more. Anyhow, I like to find out
about things, and, when I don't know, I ask those who do.

First W. I. M. (not unkindly). Well, well, never mind all that. You know I don't mind telling
you anything. I really didn't mean to sneer. What's your difficulty?

Inquirer. It's all about this Parish Councils Bill.

First W. I. M. What about it?

Inquirer (hopelessly). What does it mean? What is a Parish Councils Bill?

First W. I. M. Oh, well, you know, a Parish Councils Bill is----well, it's a Bill for giving
Parish Councils.

Inquirer. Yes--but whom are they going to give them to?

First W. I. M. Why, to the Parishes, of course.

Inquirer. Ah! (Continues reading. A puzzled frown settles on his face.) But why can't the Parishes
make their own Councils, without all this fuss in Parliament? Couldn't every Parish simply
say, "I'm going to have a Council," and just start it straight away?

First W. I. M. My dear fellow, you know nothing can be done without an Act of Parliament.

Inquirer. But they call this a Bill, not an Act.

First W. I. M. It's only another way of saying the same thing. A Bill or an Act--it's all one.

Second W. I. M. No, it isn't.

First W. I. M. I'll lay you a couter it is.

Second W. I. M. Done!

First W. I. M. Well, what do you (withering emphasis) say is the difference?

Second W. I. M. When the House of Commons brings anything in, it's a Bill, and when the House
of Lords does it, it's an Act. Pay up!

First W. I. M. Not I. That's precisely what I meant, only you wouldn't give me time to say
it. Why, that's the A B C of politics.

Second W. I. M. Seems to take a lot of learning, anyway.

[A pause.

Inquirer (returning to his point). But look here. What have they brought the Parish Councils
Bill in for? I thought we'd all got County Councils all over the place.

First W. I. M. (slapping him warmly on the back). My dear chap, you've just hit the nail plumb
on the right head. That's what I've said all along. The whole country's being simply ruined
with all these blessed Councils. Every man will have to be his own Council before long, if
they go on making Councils at this rate.

Second W. I. M. Well, anyhow, your beautiful Conservative Government, that you were so dashed
proud of, started the business.

First W. I. M. (indignantly). I deny it.

Second W. I. M. Deny away. Perhaps you'll tell me that Lord BEACONSFIELD didn't set the County
Councils going?

First W. I. M. Ah, but those were quite different County Councils. Why, they weren't even called
Councils; they were called Boards.

Second W. I. M. They may have been called Boards, but they're called Councils now, and that's
enough for me. Anyhow, don't you see (furtively consults newspaper and quotes) that "Parish
Councils are the logical and necessary development of the scheme of County Government left
imperfect by the Conservatives"?

First W. I. M. No. I don't see it at all.

Second W. I. M. Well, then, how do you propose to root the agricultural population in the soil?
You must admit----

First W. I. M. I don't admit anything--at least, I won't until you tell me how a Parish Council
is going to root anybody, let alone an agricultural labourer, in anything. There's too much
mollycoddling of these agricultural labourers, that's what I say.

Second W. I. M. (doggedly). You're always talking about agricultural depression and hard times
for those that live on the land, and you won't lift a finger to help them when you get the
chance. If we give these chaps Parish Councils, they can all get allotments, and then of course
(quotes again) "we shall multiply the productive power of the land tenfold."

First W. I. M. What have allotments got to do with Parish Councils?

Second W. I. M. Everything.

First W. I. M. (triumphant). Then how do you account for my Uncle's coachman having an allotment
at this very moment? He's had it for years, long before anybody even heard of Parish Councils.

Second W. I. M. That exactly proves my point. It's just because he isn't an agricultural labourer
that he's been able to get it. What we want to do is to level up.

Inquirer. But there aren't any agricultural labourers in my parish; at least, I never heard
of any. How are they going to manage about that?

Second W. I. M. They'll send you some from somewhere else. That's what they call migration.

Inquirer. I thought birds did that.

[Terminus.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEFORE THE PRIVATE VIEW.

(A Modern Dialogue.)

SCENE--Lady HAY'S Boudoir. Lady HAY and Miss BEE discovered sipping five o'clock tea.

Miss Bee (sympathetically). I am so sorry, dearest, that you have sprained your ankle. And
is it quite out of the question to come on Friday to Burlington House?

Lady Hay. Quite, dearest. Dr. KEELEY DODGE says I shall be laid up the whole Season if I move
a step before Monday. So you will tell me all about the Royal Academy Private View, now won't you?

Miss Bee. Of course I will do my best; but you know my forte is not description. What do you
want to know?

Lady Hay. Why, of course, who were there, and what they said, and (most important of all) what
they wore. I hope, dear, you will notice if they are wearing any of the new-fashioned bonnets,
and if hats are going out.

Miss Bee. You may rely upon me, darling.

Lady Hay. And mind you get at the last bit of scandal. There ought to be plenty about, now
that people have come back from the Riviera. But, my dear, you know exactly what I should like,
so it is useless to prompt you. I leave everything to your discretion.

Miss Bee. Quite so, darling. (After a pause.) I thought I had forgotten something--how about
the paintings?

Lady Hay. Oh, never mind them! They will keep until another occasion!      [And as they will,
Scene closes in on the Pictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBERTY LOQUITUR.

    ["I am persuaded that the true interests of the entire
    working-classes of this country are bound up with respect for
    individual freedom, and that to overlook it, or to bring
    the smallest interference in restriction of it, unless under
    absolute necessity, would be a sad mistake upon the part of
    the working-classes."--Mr. Gladstone to the Deputation of
    Miners from Durham and Northumberland.]

  I stand between you--Capital and Labour,--
    And each of you invokes my "sacred name."
  Sacred! Were love of freedom and one's neighbour
    Coöperant, claim would not conflict with claim.
  But heed my words, outspoken yet meant kindly;
  I suffer whilst ye stone each other blindly.

  Solicitous--in speech--of my intactness,
    Ye damage and deface me in your strife.
  Your aims, expressed with full and fair exactness.
    Mean fratricidal strife, war to the knife.
  Encounter hot, and fierce retaliation
  Must vainly prate about conciliation.

  Union is strength; but banded for oppression
    Toilers are tyrants, and employers--knaves.
  Plain speech! Monopolist wealth in high possession
    Treated its scattered thralls as serfs and slaves.
  And now the lesson of the scourge and fetter
  Emancipated toil would learn--and better.

  Divide and govern! That, beneath all glosing
    About Free Labour, is Wealth's motto still;
  Ingenious fudge on shallow wits imposing,
    On banded Labour to impose its will,
  Capital needs (and lauds) Labour unbanded.
  The Many-headed dreads the Many-handed!

  But set one half his hands against the other,
    And e'en Briareus may be safely tackled.
  Whilst "Unionist" is foiled by "Blackleg" brother,
    Labour fights Capital with limbs half shackled.
  Hence Federations chant, in sweet communion,
  Hymns to the blessed Liberty of non-Union!

  And Labour, which loves Liberty--of striking,
    Hates "Blackleg" freedom with a furious hate.
  "Make all men do according to my liking!"
    Seems now the cry all round us in the State.
  Monopolist, Miner, Temperance fanatic,
  All crave compulsion with a force emphatic.

  But Legal Eight Hours Day, or Local Veto,
    "Blackleg" suppression, Anti-Union law,
  Mean "make the others to myself say ditto!"
    "Restriction" is the newest ass's-jaw
  For slaying all our foes, from Wealth to Drink,
  Hailed with applause, save by the few who think.

  If from proved ill to legal prohibition
    Were step as plain and proper as some deem,
  To diagnose (and cure) the State's condition
    Were easy as some Socialistic dream.
  But Looking Backward--or e'en forward--'s found
  Poor substitute for wisdom's look all round.

