By July, growth on some species had slowed to a crawl and they looked a little gnarly. Wondering
if a hidden cause of what appeared to be moisture stress might actually be nutrient deficiencies,
I tried spraying liquid fertilizer directly on these gnarly leaves, a practice called foliar
feeding. It helped greatly because, I reasoned, most fertility is located in the topsoil, and
when it gets dry the plants draw on subsoil moisture, so surface nutrients, though still present
in the dry soil, become unobtainable. That being so, I reasoned that some of these species
might do even better if they had just a little fertilized water. So I improvised a simple drip
system and metered out 4 or 5 gallons of liquid fertilizer to some of the plants in late July
and four gallons more in August. To some species, extra fertilized water (what I call "fertigation")
hardly made any difference at all. But unirrigated winter squash vines, which were small and
scraggly and yielded about 15 pounds of food, grew more lushly when given a few 5-gallon, fertilizer-fortified
assists and yielded 50 pounds. Thirty-five pounds of squash for 25 extra gallons of water and
a bit of extra nutrition is a pretty good exchange in my book.

The next year I integrated all this new information into just one garden. Water-loving species
like lettuce and celery were grown through the summer on a large, thoroughly irrigated raised
bed. The rest of the garden was given no irrigation at all or minimally metered-out fertigations.
Some unirrigated crops were foliar fed weekly.

Everything worked in 1991! And I found still other species that I could grow surprisingly well
on surprisingly small amounts of water[--]or none at all. So, the next year, 1992, I set up
a sprinkler system to water the intensive raised bed and used the overspray to support species
that grew better with some moisture supplementation; I continued using my improvised drip system
to help still others, while keeping a large section of the garden entirely unwatered. And at
the end of that summer I wrote this book.

What follows is not mere theory, not something I read about or saw others do. These techniques
are tested and workable. The next-to-last chapter of this book contains a complete plan of
my 1992 garden with explanations and discussion of the reasoning behind it.

In Water-Wise Vegetables I assume that my readers already are growing food (probably on raised
beds), already know how to adjust their gardening to this region's climate, and know how to
garden with irrigation. If you don't have this background I suggest you read my other garden
book, Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades, (Sasquatch Books, 1989).

Steve Solomon

Chapter 1

Predictably Rainless Summers

In the eastern United States, summertime rainfall can support gardens without irrigation but
is just irregular enough to be worrisome. West of the Cascades we go into the summer growing
season certain we must water regularly.

My own many-times-revised book Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades correctly emphasized
that moisture-stressed vegetables suffer greatly. Because I had not yet noticed how plant spacing
affects soil moisture loss, in that book I stated a half-truth as law: Soil moisture loss averages
1-1/2 inches per week during summer.

This figure is generally true for raised-bed gardens west of the Cascades, so I recommended
adding 1 1/2 inches of water each week and even more during really hot weather.

  Summertime Rainfall West of the Cascades (in inches)*

  Location         April    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.

  Eureka, CA        3.0     2.1     0.7     0.1     0.3     0.7     3.2
  Medford, OR       1.0     1.4     0.98    0.3     0.3     0.6     2.1
  Eugene, OR        2.3     2.1     1.3     0.3     0.6     1.3     4.0
  Portland, OR      2.2     2.1     1.6     0.5     0.8     1.6     3.6
  Astoria, OR       4.6     2.7     2.5     1.0     1.5     2.8     6.8
  Olympia, WA       3.1     1.9     1.6     0.7     1.2     2.1     5.3
  Seattle, WA       2.4     1.7     1.6     0.8     1.0     2.1     4.0
  Bellingham, WA    2.3     1.8     1.9     1.0     1.1     2.0     3.7
  Vancouver, BC     3.3     2.8     2.5     1.2     1.7     3.6     5.8
  Victoria, BC      1.2     1.0     0.9     0.4     0.6     1.5     2.8

  *Source: Van der Leeden et al., The Water Encyclopedia, 2nd ed.,
  (Chelsea, Mich.: Lewis Publishers, 1990).

Defined scientifically, drought is not lack of rain. It is a dry soil condition in which plant
growth slows or stops and plant survival may be threatened. The earth loses water when wind
blows, when sun shines, when air temperature is high, and when humidity is low. Of all these
factors, air temperature most affects soil moisture loss.

  Daily Maximum Temperature (F)*

  July/August     Average

  Eureka, CA        61
  Medford, OR       89
  Eugene, OR        82
  Astoria, OR       68
  Olympia, WA       78
  Seattle, WA       75
  Bellingham, WA    74
  Vancouver, BC     73
  Victoria, BC      68

  *Source: The Water Encyclopedia.

The kind of vegetation growing on a particular plot and its density have even more to do with
soil moisture loss than temperature or humidity or wind speed. And, surprising as it might
seem, bare soil may not lose much moisture at all. I now know it is next to impossible to anticipate
moisture loss from soil without first specifying the vegetation there. Evaporation from a large
body of water, however, is mainly determined by weather, so reservoir evaporation measurements
serve as a rough gauge of anticipated soil moisture loss.

  Evaporation from Reservoirs (inches per month)*

  Location        April    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.

  Seattle, WA      2.1     2.7     3.4     3.9     3.4     2.6     1.6
  Baker, OR        2.5     3.4     4.4     6.9     7.3     4.9     2.9
  Sacramento, CA   3.6     5.0     7.1     8.9     8.6     7.1     4.8

  *Source: The Water Encyclopedia

From May through September during a normal year, a reservoir near Seattle loses about 16 inches
of water by evaporation. The next chart shows how much water farmers expect to use to support
conventional agriculture in various parts of the West. Comparing this data for Seattle with
the estimates based on reservoir evaporation shows pretty good agreement. I include data for
Umatilla and Yakima to show that much larger quantities of irrigation water are needed in really
hot, arid places like Baker or Sacramento.

  Estimated Irrigation Requirements:
  During Entire Growing Season (in inches)*

  Location                            Duration         Amount

  Umatilla/Yakama Valley              April-October      30
  Willamette Valley                   May-September      16
  Puget Sound                         May-September      14
  Upper Rogue/Upper Umpqua Valley     March-September    18
  Lower Rogue/Lower Coquille Valley   May-September      11
  NW California                       April-October      17

  *Source: The Water Encyclopedia

In our region, gardens lose far more water than they get from rainfall during the summer growing
season. At first glance, it seems impossible to garden without irrigation west of the Cascades.
But there is water already present in the soil when the gardening season begins. By creatively
using and conserving this moisture, some maritime Northwest gardeners can go through an entire
summer without irrigating very much, and with some crops, irrigating not at all.

Chapter 2

Water-Wise Gardening Science

Plants Are Water

Like all other carbon-based life forms on earth, plants conduct their chemical processes in
a water solution. Every substance that plants transport is dissolved in water. When insoluble
starches and oils are required for plant energy, enzymes change them back into water-soluble
sugars for movement to other locations. Even cellulose and lignin, insoluble structural materials
that plants cannot convert back into soluble materials, are made from molecules that once were
in solution.

Water is so essential that when a plant can no longer absorb as much water as it is losing,
it wilts in self-defense. The drooping leaves transpire (evaporate) less moisture because the
sun glances off them. Some weeds can wilt temporarily and resume vigorous growth as soon as
their water balance is restored. But most vegetable species aren't as tough-moisture stressed
vegetables may survive, but once stressed, the quality of their yield usually drops markedly.

Yet in deep, open soil west of the Cascades, most vegetable species may be grown quite successfully
with very little or no supplementary irrigation and without mulching, because they're capable
of being supplied entirely by water already stored in the soil.

Soil's Water-Holding Capacity

Soil is capable of holding on to quite a bit of water, mostly by
adhesion. For example, I'm sure that at one time or another you have
picked up a wet stone from a river or by the sea. A thin film of
water clings to its surface. This is adhesion. The more surface area
there is, the greater the amount of moisture that can be held by
adhesion. If we crushed that stone into dust, we would greatly
increase the amount of water that could adhere to the original
material. Clay particles, it should be noted, are so small that
clay's ability to hold water is not as great as its mathematically
computed surface area would indicate.
          (New York: John Wylie & Sons, 1990).

This direct relationship between particle size, surface area, and water-holding capacity is
so essential to understanding plant growth that the surface areas presented by various sizes
of soil particles have been calculated. Soils are not composed of a single size of particle.
If the mix is primarily sand, we call it a sandy soil. If the mix is primarily clay, we call
it a clay soil. If the soil is a relatively equal mix of all three, containing no more than
35 percent clay, we call it a loam.

  Available Moisture (inches of water per foot of soil)

  Soil Texture     Average Amount

  Very coarse sand      0.5
  Coarse sand           0.7
  Sandy                 1.0
  Sandy loam            1.4
  Loam                  2.0
  Clay loam             2.3
  Silty clay            2.5
  Clay                  2.7

  Source: Fundamentals of Soil Science.

Adhering water films can vary greatly in thickness. But if the water molecules adhering to
a soil particle become too thick, the force of adhesion becomes too weak to resist the force
of gravity, and some water flows deeper into the soil. When water films are relatively thick
the soil feels wet and plant roots can easily absorb moisture. "Field capacity" is the term
describing soil particles holding all the water they can against the force of gravity.

At the other extreme, the thinner the water films become, the more tightly they adhere and
the drier the earth feels. At some degree of desiccation, roots are no longer forceful enough
to draw on soil moisture as fast as the plants are transpiring. This condition is called the
"wilting point." The term "available moisture" refers to the difference between field capacity
and the amount of moisture left after the plants have died.

Clayey soil can provide plants with three times as much available water as sand, six times
as much as a very coarse sandy soil. It might seem logical to conclude that a clayey garden
would be the most drought resistant. But there's more to it. For some crops, deep sandy loams
can provide just about as much usable moisture as clays. Sandy soils usually allow more extensive
root development, so a plant with a naturally aggressive and deep root system may be able to
occupy a much larger volume of sandy loam, ultimately coming up with more moisture than it
could obtain from a heavy, airless clay. And sandy loams often have a clayey, moisture-rich
subsoil.

Because of this interplay of factors, how much available water your own unique garden soil
is actually capable of providing and how much you will have to supplement it with irrigation
can only be discovered by trial.

How Soil Loses Water

Suppose we tilled a plot about April 1 and then measured soil moisture loss until October.
Because plants growing around the edge might extend roots into our test plot and extract moisture,
we'll make our tilled area 50 feet by 50 feet and make all our measurements in the center.
And let's locate this imaginary plot in full sun on flat, uniform soil. And let's plant absolutely
nothing in this bare earth. And all season let's rigorously hoe out every weed while it is
still very tiny.

Let's also suppose it's been a typical maritime Northwest rainy winter, so on April 1 the soil
is at field capacity, holding all the moisture it can. From early April until well into September
the hot sun will beat down on this bare plot. Our summer rains generally come in insignificant
installments and do not penetrate deeply; all of the rain quickly evaporates from the surface
few inches without recharging deeper layers. Most readers would reason that a soil moisture
measurement taken 6 inches down on September 1, should show very little water left. One foot
down seems like it should be just as dry, and in fact, most gardeners would expect that there
would be very little water found in the soil until we got down quite a few feet if there were
several feet of soil.

But that is not what happens! The hot sun does dry out the surface inches, but if we dig down
6 inches or so there will be almost as much water present in September as there was in April.
Bare earth does not lose much water at all. Once a thin surface layer is completely desiccated,
be it loose or compacted, virtually no further loss of moisture can occur.

The only soils that continue to dry out when bare are certain kinds of very heavy clays that
form deep cracks. These ever-deepening openings allow atmospheric air to freely evaporate additional
moisture. But if the cracks are filled with dust by surface cultivation, even this soil type
ceases to lose water.

Soil functions as our bank account, holding available water in storage. In our climate soil
is inevitably charged to capacity by winter rains, and then all summer growing plants make
heavy withdrawals. But hot sun and wind working directly on soil don't remove much water; that
is caused by hot sun and wind working on plant leaves, making them transpire moisture drawn
from the earth through their root systems. Plants desiccate soil to the ultimate depth and
lateral extent of their rooting ability, and then some. The size of vegetable root systems
is greater than most gardeners would think. The amount of moisture potentially available to
sustain vegetable growth is also greater than most gardeners think.

Rain and irrigation are not the only ways to replace soil moisture. If the soil body is deep,
water will gradually come up from below the root zone by capillarity. Capillarity works by
the very same force of adhesion that makes moisture stick to a soil particle. A column of water
in a vertical tube (like a thin straw) adheres to the tube's inner surfaces. This adhesion
tends to lift the edges of the column of water. As the tube's diameter becomes smaller the
amount of lift becomes greater. Soil particles form interconnected pores that allow an inefficient
capillary flow, recharging dry soil above. However, the drier soil becomes, the less effective
capillary flow becomes. That is why a thoroughly desiccated surface layer only a few inches
thick acts as a powerful mulch.

Industrial farming and modern gardening tend to discount the replacement of surface moisture
by capillarity, considering this flow an insignificant factor compared with the moisture needs
of crops. But conventional agriculture focuses on maximized yields through high plant densities.
Capillarity is too slow to support dense crop stands where numerous root systems are competing,
but when a single plant can, without any competition, occupy a large enough area, moisture
replacement by capillarity becomes significant.

How Plants Obtain Water

Most gardeners know that plants acquire water and minerals through their root systems, and
leave it at that. But the process is not quite that simple. The actively growing, tender root
tips and almost microscopic root hairs close to the tip absorb most of the plant's moisture
as they occupy new territory. As the root continues to extend, parts behind the tip cease to
be effective because, as soil particles in direct contact with these tips and hairs dry out,
the older roots thicken and develop a bark, while most of the absorbent hairs slough off. This
rotation from being actively foraging tissue to becoming more passive conductive and supportive
tissue is probably a survival adaptation, because the slow capillary movement of soil moisture
fails to replace what the plant used as fast as the plant might like. The plant is far better
off to aggressively seek new water in unoccupied soil than to wait for the soil its roots already
occupy to be recharged.

A simple bit of old research magnificently illustrated the significance of this. A scientist
named Dittmer observed in 1937 that a single potted ryegrass plant allocated only 1 cubic foot
of soil to grow in made about 3 miles of new roots and root hairs every day. (Ryegrasses are
known to make more roots than most plants.) I calculate that a cubic foot of silty soil offers
about 30,000 square feet of surface area to plant roots. If 3 miles of microscopic root tips
and hairs (roughly 16,000 lineal feet) draws water only from a few millimeters of surrounding
soil, then that single rye plant should be able to continue ramifying into a cubic foot of
silty soil and find enough water for quite a few days before wilting. These arithmetical estimates
agree with my observations in the garden, and with my experiences raising transplants in pots.

Lowered Plant Density: The Key to Water-Wise Gardening

I always think my latest try at writing a near-perfect garden book is quite a bit better than
the last. Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades, recommended somewhat wider spacings on raised
beds than I did in 1980 because I'd repeatedly noticed that once a leaf canopy forms, plant
growth slows markedly. Adding a little more fertilizer helps after plants "bump," but still
the rate of growth never equals that of younger plants. For years I assumed crowded plants
stopped producing as much because competition developed for light. But now I see that unseen
competition for root room also slows them down. Even if moisture is regularly recharged by
irrigation, and although nutrients are replaced, once a bit of earth has been occupied by the
roots of one plant it is not so readily available to the roots of another. So allocating more
elbow room allows vegetables to get larger and yield longer and allows the gardener to reduce
the frequency of irrigations.

Though hot, baking sun and wind can desiccate the few inches of surface soil, withdrawals of
moisture from greater depths are made by growing plants transpiring moisture through their
leaf surfaces. The amount of water a growing crop will transpire is determined first by the
nature of the species itself, then by the amount of leaf exposed to sun, air temperature, humidity,
and wind. In these respects, the crop is like an automobile radiator. With cars, the more metal
surfaces, the colder the ambient air, and the higher the wind speed, the better the radiator
can cool; in the garden, the more leaf surfaces, the faster, warmer, and drier the wind, and
the brighter the sunlight, the more water is lost through transpiration.

Dealing with a Surprise Water Shortage

Suppose you are growing a conventional, irrigated garden and something unanticipated interrupts
your ability to water. Perhaps you are homesteading and your well begins to dry up. Perhaps
you're a backyard gardener and the municipality temporarily restricts usage. What to do?

First, if at all possible before the restrictions take effect, water very heavily and long
to ensure there is maximum subsoil moisture. Then eliminate all newly started interplantings
and ruthlessly hoe out at least 75 percent of the remaining immature plants and about half
of those about two weeks away from harvest.

For example, suppose you've got a a 4-foot-wide intensive bed holding seven rows of broccoli
on 12 inch centers, or about 21 plants. Remove at least every other row and every other plant
in the three or four remaining rows. Try to bring plant density down to those described in
Chapter 5, "How to Grow It: A-Z"

Then shallowly hoe the soil every day or two to encourage the surface inches to dry out and
form a dust mulch. You water-wise person--you're already dry gardening--now start fertigating.

How long available soil water will sustain a crop is determined by how many plants are drawing
on the reserve, how extensively their root systems develop, and how many leaves are transpiring
the moisture. If there are no plants, most of the water will stay unused in the barren soil
through the entire growing season. If a crop canopy is established midway through the growing
season, the rate of water loss will approximate that listed in the table in Chapter 1 "Estimated
Irrigation Requirement." If by very close planting the crop canopy is established as early
as possible and maintained by successive interplantings, as is recommended by most advocates
of raised-bed gardening, water losses will greatly exceed this rate.

Many vegetable species become mildly stressed when soil moisture has dropped about half the
way from capacity to the wilting point. On very closely planted beds a crop can get in serious
trouble without irrigation in a matter of days. But if that same crop were planted less densely,
it might grow a few weeks without irrigation. And if that crop were planted even farther apart
so that no crop canopy ever developed and a considerable amount of bare, dry earth were showing,
this apparent waste of growing space would result in an even slower rate of soil moisture depletion.
On deep, open soil the crop might yield a respectable amount without needing any irrigation at all.

West of the Cascades we expect a rainless summer; the surprise comes that rare rainy year when
the soil stays moist and we gather bucketfuls of chanterelle mushrooms in early October. Though
the majority of maritime Northwest gardeners do not enjoy deep, open, moisture-retentive soils,
all except those with the shallowest soil can increase their use of the free moisture nature
provides and lengthen the time between irrigations. The next chapter discusses making the most
of whatever soil depth you have. Most of our region's gardens can yield abundantly without
any rain at all if only we reduce competition for available soil moisture, judiciously fertigate
some vegetable species, and practice a few other water-wise tricks.

Would lowering plant density as much as this book suggests equally lower the yield of the plot?
Surprisingly, the amount harvested does not drop proportionately. In most cases having a plant
density one-eighth of that recommended by intensive gardening advocates will result in a yield
about half as great as on closely planted raised beds.

Internet Readers: In the print copy of this book are color pictures of my own "irrigationless"
garden. Looking at them about here in the book would add reality to these ideas.

Chapter 3

Helping Plants to Need Less Irrigation

Dry though the maritime Northwest summer is, we enter the growing season with our full depth
of soil at field capacity. Except on clayey soils in extraordinarily frosty, high-elevation
locations, we usually can till and plant before the soil has had a chance to lose much moisture.

There are a number of things we can do to make soil moisture more available to our summer vegetables.
The most obvious step is thorough weeding. Next, we can keep the surface fluffed up with a
rotary tiller or hoe during April and May, to break its capillary connection with deeper soil
and accelerate the formation of a dry dust mulch. Usually, weeding forces us to do this anyway.
Also, if it should rain during summer, we can hoe or rotary till a day or two later and again
help a new dust mulch to develop.

Building Bigger Root Systems

Without irrigation, most of the plant's water supply is obtained by expansion into new earth
that hasn't been desiccated by other competing roots. Eliminating any obstacles to rapid growth
of root systems is the key to success. So, keep in mind a few facts about how roots grow and
prosper.

The air supply in soil limits or allows root growth. Unlike the leaves, roots do not perform
photosynthesis, breaking down carbon dioxide gas into atmospheric oxygen and carbon. Yet root
cells must breathe oxygen. This is obtained from the air held in spaces between soil particles.
Many other soil-dwelling life forms from bacteria to moles compete for this same oxygen. Consequently,
soil oxygen levels are lower than in the atmosphere. A slow exchange of gases does occur between
soil air and free atmosphere, but deeper in the soil there will inevitably be less oxygen.
Different plant species have varying degrees of root tolerance for lack of oxygen, but they
all stop growing at some depth. Moisture reserves below the roots' maximum depth become relatively
inaccessible.

Soil compaction reduces the overall supply and exchange of soil air. Compacted soil also acts
as a mechanical barrier to root system expansion. When gardening with unlimited irrigation
or where rain falls frequently, it is quite possible to have satisfactory growth when only
the surface 6 or 7 inches of soil facilitates root development. When gardening with limited
water, China's the limit, because if soil conditions permit, many vegetable species are capable
of reaching 4, 5, and 8 eight feet down to find moisture and nutrition.

Evaluating Potential Rooting Ability

One of the most instructive things a water-wise gardener can do is to rent or borrow a hand-operated
fence post auger and bore a 3-foot-deep hole. It can be even more educational to buy a short
section of ordinary water pipe to extend the auger's reach another 2 or 3 feet down. In soil
free of stones, using an auger is more instructive than using a conventional posthole digger
or shoveling out a small pit, because where soil is loose, the hole deepens rapidly. Where
any layer is even slightly compacted, one turns and turns the bit without much effect. Augers
also lift the materials more or less as they are stratified. If your soil is somewhat stony
(like much upland soil north of Centralia left by the Vashon Glacier), the more usual fence-post
digger or common shovel works better.

If you find more than 4 feet of soil, the site holds a dry-gardening potential that increases
with the additional depth. Some soils along the floodplains of rivers or in broad valleys like
the Willamette or Skagit can be over 20 feet deep, and hold far more water than the deepest
roots could draw or capillary flow could raise during an entire growing season. Gently sloping
land can often carry 5 to 7 feet of open, usable soil. However, soils on steep hillsides become
increasingly thin and fragile with increasing slope.

Whether an urban, suburban, or rural gardener, you should make no assumptions about the depth
and openness of the soil at your disposal. Dig a test hole. If you find less than 2 unfortunate
feet of open earth before hitting an impermeable obstacle such as rock or gravel, not much
water storage can occur and the only use this book will hold for you is to guide your move
to a more likely gardening location or encourage the house hunter to seek further. Of course,
you can still garden quite successfully on thin soil in the conventional, irrigated manner.
Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades will be an excellent guide for this type of situation.

Eliminating Plowpan

Deep though the soil may be, any restriction of root expansion greatly limits the ability of
plants to aggressively find water. A compacted subsoil or even a thin compressed layer such
as plowpan may function as such a barrier. Though moisture will still rise slowly by capillarity
and recharge soil above plowpan, plants obtain much more water by rooting into unoccupied,
damp soil. Soils close to rivers or on floodplains may appear loose and infinitely deep but
may hide subsoil streaks of droughty gravel that effectively stops root growth. Some of these
conditions are correctable and some are not.

Plowpan is very commonly encountered by homesteaders on farm soils and may be found in suburbia
too, but fortunately it is the easiest obstacle to remedy. Traditionally, American croplands
have been tilled with the moldboard plow. As this implement first cuts and then flips a 6-or
7-inch-deep slice of soil over, the sole--the part supporting the plow's weight--presses heavily
on the earth about 7 inches below the surface. With each subsequent plowing the plow sole rides
at the same 7-inch depth and an even more compacted layer develops. Once formed plowpan prevents
the crop from rooting into the subsoil. Since winter rains leach nutrients from the topsoil
and deposit them in the subsoil, plowpan prevents access to these nutrients and effectively
impoverishes the field. So wise farmers periodically use a subsoil plow to fracture the pan.

Plowpan can seem as firm as a rammed-earth house; once established, it can last a long, long
time. My own garden land is part of what was once an old wheat farm, one of the first homesteads
of the Oregon Territory. From about 1860 through the 1930s, the field produced small grains.
After wheat became unprofitable, probably because of changing market conditions and soil exhaustion,
the field became an unplowed pasture. Then in the 1970s it grew daffodil bulbs, occasioning
more plowing. All through the '80s my soil again rested under grass. In 1987, when I began
using the land, there was still a 2-inch-thick, very hard layer starting about 7 inches down.
Below 9 inches the open earth is soft as butter as far as I've ever dug.

On a garden-sized plot, plowpan or compacted subsoil is easily opened with a spading fork or
a very sharp common shovel. After normal rotary tilling, either tool can fairly easily be wiggled
12 inches into the earth and small bites of plowpan loosened. Once this laborious chore is
accomplished the first time, deep tillage will be far easier. In fact, it becomes so easy that
I've been looking for a custom-made fork with longer tines.

Curing Clayey Soils

