An Outline of Occult Science

                                    By

                          Rudolf Steiner, Ph.D.

              Authorized Translation from the Fourth Edition

                             (Newly Revised)

                           AnthropoSophic Press

                                 New York

                                   1922

CONTENTS

Preface to the Fourth Edition. Author’s Remarks To First Edition Chapter I. The Character of
Occult Science Chapter II. The Nature of Man Chapter III. Sleep and Death Chapter IV. The Evolution
of the World and Man Chapter V. Knowledge of the Higher Worlds Chapter VI. The Present and
Future Evolution of the World and of Humanity Chapter VII. Details from the Domain of Occult
Science Man’s Etheric Body Footnotes

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION.

One who undertakes to represent certain results of scientific spiritual research of the kind
recorded in this book, must above all things be prepared to find that this kind of investigation
is at the present time almost universally regarded as impossible. For things are related in
the following pages about which those who are today esteemed exact thinkers, assert that they
will probably remain altogether indeterminable by human intelligence. One who knows and can
respect the reasons which prompt many a serious person to assert this impossibility, would
fain make the attempt again and again to show what misunderstandings are really at the bottom
of the belief that it is not given to human knowledge to penetrate into the superphysical worlds.

For two things present themselves for consideration. First, no human being will, on deeper
reflection, be able in the long run to shut his eyes to the fact that his most important questions
as to the meaning and significance of life must remain unanswered, if there be no access to
higher worlds. Theoretically we may delude ourselves concerning this fact and so get away from
it; the depths of our soul-life, however, will not tolerate such self-delusion. The person
who will not listen to what comes from these depths of the soul will naturally reject any account
of supersensible worlds. There are however people—and their number is not small—who find it
impossible to remain deaf to the demands coming from the depths of the soul. They must always
be knocking at the gates which, in the opinion of others, bar the way to what is “incomprehensible.”

Secondly, the statements of “exact thinkers” are on no account to be despised. Where they have
to be taken seriously, one who occupies himself with them will thoroughly feel and appreciate
this seriousness. The writer of this book would not like to be taken for one who lightly disregards
the enormous thought-labour which has been expended in determining the limits of the human
intellect. This thought-labour cannot be put aside with a few phrases about “academic wisdom”
and the like. In many cases it has its source in true striving after knowledge and in genuine
discernment. Indeed, even more than this must be admitted; reasons have been brought forward
to show that that knowledge which is to-day regarded as scientific cannot penetrate into supersensible
worlds, and these reasons are in a certain sense irrefutable.

Now it may appear strange to many people that the writer of this book admits this freely, and
yet undertakes to make statements about supersensible worlds. It seems indeed almost impossible
that a person should admit in a certain sense the reasons why knowledge of superphysical worlds
is unattainable, and should yet speak about those worlds.

Yet it is possible to take this attitude, and at the same time to understand that it impresses
others as being inconsistent. It is not given to every one to enter into the experiences we
pass through when we approach supersensible realms with the human intellect. Then it turns
out that intellectual proofs may certainly be irrefutable, and that notwithstanding this, they
need not be decisive with regard to reality. Instead of all sorts of theoretical explanations,
let us now try to make this comprehensible by a comparison. That comparisons are not in themselves
proofs is readily admitted, but this does not prevent their often making intelligible what
has to be expressed.

Human understanding, as it works in everyday life and in ordinary science, is actually so constituted
that it cannot penetrate into superphysical worlds. This may be proven beyond the possibility
of denial. But this proof can have no more value for a certain kind of soul-life than the proof
one would use in showing that man’s natural eye cannot, with its visual faculty, penetrate
to the smallest cells of a living being, or to the constitution of far-off celestial bodies.

Just as the assertion is true and demonstrable that the ordinary power of seeing does not penetrate
as far as the cells, so also is the other assertion which maintains that ordinary knowledge
cannot penetrate into supersensible worlds. And yet the proof that the ordinary power of vision
has to stop short of the cells in no way excludes the investigation of cells. Why should the
proof that the ordinary power of cognition has to stop short of supersensible worlds, decide
anything against the possibility of investigating those worlds?

One can well sense the feeling which this comparison may evoke in many people. One can even
understand that he who doubts and holds the above comparison against this labor of thought,
does not even faintly sense the whole seriousness of that mental effort. And yet the present
writer is not only fully convinced of that seriousness, but is of opinion that that work of
thought may be numbered among the noblest achievements of humanity. To show that the human
power of vision cannot perceive the cellular structure without the help of instruments, would
surely be a useless undertaking; but in exact thinking, to become conscious of the nature of
that thought is a necessary work of the mind. It is only natural that one who devotes himself
to such work, should not notice that reality may refute him. The preface to this book can be
no place for entering into many “refutations” of former editions, put forth by those who are
entirely devoid of appreciation of that for which it strives, or who direct their unfounded
attacks against the personality of the author; but it must, none the less, be emphasized that
belittling of serious scientific thought in this book can only be imputed to the author by
one who wishes to shut himself off from the spirit of what is expressed in it.

Man’s power of cognition may be augmented and made more powerful, just as the eye’s power of
vision may be augmented. Only the means for strengthening the capacity of cognition are entirely
of a spiritual nature; they are inner processes, belonging purely to the soul. They consist
of what is described in this book as meditation and concentration (contemplation). Ordinary
soul-life is bound up with the bodily instrument; the strengthened soul-life liberates itself
from it. There are schools of thought at the present time to which this assertion must appear
quite senseless, to which it must seem based only upon self-delusion. Those who think in this
way will find it easy, from their point of view, to prove that “all soul-life” is bound up
with the nervous system. One who holds the standpoint from which this book has been written,
can thoroughly understand such proofs. He understands people who say that only superficiality
can assert that there may be some kind of soul-life independent of the body, and who are quite
convinced that in such experiences of the soul there exists a connection with the life of the
nervous system, which the “dilettantism of occult science” merely fails to detect.

Here certain quite comprehensible habits of thought are in such sharp contradiction to what
has been described in this book, that there is as yet no prospect of coming to an understanding
with many people. It is here that we come to the point where the desire must arise that it
should no longer be a characteristic of our present day culture to at once decry as fanciful
or visionary a method of research which differs from its own. But on the other hand it is also
a fact at the present time that a number of people can appreciate the supersensible method
of research, as it is presented in this book, people who understand that the meaning of life
is not revealed in general phrases about the soul, self, and so on, but can only result from
really entering into the facts of superphysical research.

Not from lack of modesty, but with a sense of joyful satisfaction, does the author of this
book feel profoundly the necessity for this fourth edition after a comparatively short time.
The author is not prompted to this statement by lack of modesty, for he is entirely too conscious
of how little even this new edition approaches that “outline of a supersensuous world concept”
which it is meant to be. The whole book has once more been revised for the new edition, much
supplementary matter has been inserted at important points, and elucidations have been attempted.
But in numerous passages the author has realized how poor the means of presentation accessible
to him prove to be in comparison with what superphysical research discovers. Thus it was scarcely
possible to do more than point out the way in which to reach conceptions of the events described
in this book as the Saturn, Sun, and Moon evolutions. An important aspect of this subject has
been briefly remodelled in this edition. But experiences in relation to such things diverge
so widely from all experiences in the realm of the senses, that their presentation necessitates
a continual striving after expressions which may be, at least in some measure, adequate. One
who is willing to enter into the attempted presentation which has here been made, will perhaps
notice that in the case of many things which cannot possibly be expressed by mere words, the
endeavour has been made to convey them by the manner of the description. This manner is, for
instance, different in the account of the Saturn evolution from that used for the Sun evolution,
and so on.

Much complementary and additional matter has been inserted in this edition in the part dealing
with “Perception of the Higher Worlds.” The endeavour has been made to represent in a graphic
way the kind of inner soul-processes by which the power of cognition liberates itself from
the limits which confine it in the world of sense and thereby becomes qualified for experiencing
the supersensible world. The attempt has been made to show that these experiences, even though
gained by entirely inner ways and methods, still do not have a merely subjective significance
for the particular individual who gains them. The description attempts to show that within
the soul stripped of its individuality and personal peculiarities, an experience takes place
which every human being may have in the same way, if he will only work at his development from
out his subjective experiences. It is only when “knowledge of supersensible worlds” is thought
of as bearing this character that it may be differentiated from old experiences of merely subjective
mysticism. Of this mysticism it may be said that it is after all more or less a subjective
concern of the mystic. The scientific spiritual training of the soul, however, as it is described
here, strives for objective experiences, the truth of which, although recognized in an entirely
inner way, may yet, for that very reason, be found to be universally valid. This again is a
point on which it is very difficult to come to an understanding concerning many of the habits
of thought of our time.

In conclusion, the author would like to observe that it would be well if even the sympathetic
reader of the book would take its statements exactly as they stand. At the present time there
is a very prevalent tendency to give this or that spiritual movement an historical name, and
to many it is only such a name that seems to make it valuable. But, it may be asked, what would
the statements in this book gain by being designated “Rosicrucian,” or anything else of the
kind? What is of importance is that in this book a glimpse into supersensible worlds is attempted
with the means which in our present period of evolution are possible and suitable for the human
soul; and that from this point of view the problems of human destiny and human existence are
considered beyond the limits of birth and death. It is not a question of an endeavor which
shall bear this or that old name, but of a striving after truth.

On the other hand, expressions have also been used, with hostile intention, for the conception
of the universe presented in this book. Leaving out of account that those which were intended
to strike and discredit the author most heavily are absurd and objectively untrue, these expressions
are stamped as unworthy by the fact that they disparage a fully independent search for truth;
because the aggressors do not judge it on its own merits, but try to impose on others, as a
judgment of these investigations, erroneous ideas about their dependence upon this or that
tradition,—ideas which they have invented, or adopted from others without reason. However necessary
these words are in face of the many attacks on the author, it is yet repugnant to him in this
place to enter further into the matter.

RUDOLF STEINER June, 1913.

AUTHOR’S REMARKS TO FIRST EDITION

In placing a book such as this in the hands of the public, the writer must calmly anticipate
every kind of criticism regarding his work which is likely to arise in the present day. A reader,
for instance, whose opinions are based upon the results of scientific research, after noting
certain statements made here touching these things, may pronounce the following judgment: “It
is astounding that such statements should be possible in our time. The most elementary conceptions
of natural science are distorted in such a manner as to denote positively inconceivable ignorance
of even the rudiments of science. The author uses such terms, for instance, as ‘heat’ in a
way that would lead one to infer that he had let the entire wave of modern thought on the subject
of physics sweep past him unperceived. Any one familiar with the mere elements of this science
would show him that not even the merest dilettante could have made these statements, and they
can only be dismissed as the outcome of rank ignorance.”

This and many a similar verdict might be pronounced, and we can picture our reader, after the
perusal of a page or two, laying the book aside,—smiling or indignant, according to his temperament,—and
reflecting on the singular growths which a perverse tendency of thought may put forth in our
time. So thinking, he will lay this volume aside, with his collection of similar freaks of
the brain. What, however, would the author say should such opinions come to his knowledge?
Would he not, from his point of view, also set the critic down as incapable of judgment or,
at least, as one who has not chosen to bring his good will to bear in forming an intelligent
opinion? To this the answer is most emphatically—No! In no sense whatever does the author feel
this, for he can easily conceive of his critic as being not only a highly intelligent man,
but also a trained scientist, and one whose opinions are the result of conscientious thought.
The author of this book is able to enter into the feelings of such a person and to understand
the reasons which have led him to form these conclusions.

Now, in order to comprehend what the author really means, it is necessary to do here what generally
seems to him to be out of place, but for which there is urgent cause in the case of this book,
namely, to introduce certain personal data. Of course, nothing will be said in this connection
but what bears upon the author’s decision to write this book. What is said in it could not
be justified if it bore merely a personal character. A book of this kind is bound to proffer
views to which any person may attain, and these views must be presented in such a way as to
suggest no shade of the personal element, that is, as far as such a thing is possible.

It is therefore not in this sense that the personal note is sounded. It is only intended to
explain how it was possible for the author to understand the above characterized opinions concerning
his presentations, and yet was able to write this book.

It is true there is one method which would have made the introduction of the personal element
unnecessary—this would have been to specify in detail all those particulars which would show
that the statements here made are in agreement with the progress of modern science. This course
would, however, have necessitated the writing of many volumes, and as such a task is at present
out of the question, the writer feels it necessary to state the personal reasons which he believes
justify him in thinking such an agreement thoroughly possible and satisfactory. Were he not
in a position to make the following explanations, he would most certainly never have gone so
far as to publish such statements as those referring to heat processes.

Some thirty years ago the author had the opportunity of studying physics in its various branches.
At that time the central point of interest in the sphere of heat phenomena was the promulgation
of the so-called “Mechanical Theory of Heat,” and it happened that this theory so particularly
engrossed his attention that the historical development of the various interpretations associated
with the names of Julius Robert Mayer, Helmholtz, Joule, Clausius, and others, formed the subject
of his continuous study. During that period of concentrated work he laid those foundations
which have enabled him to follow all the actual advances since made with regard to the theory
of physical heat, without experiencing any difficulty in penetrating into what science is achieving
in this department. Had he been obliged to confess himself unable to do this, the writer would
have had good reason for leaving unsaid and unwritten much that has been brought forward in
this book.

He has made it a matter of conscience, when writing or speaking on occult science, to deal
only with matters on which he could also report, in what seemed an adequate manner, the views
held by modern science. With this, however, he does not wish in the least to give the impression
that this is always a necessary prerequisite. Any one may feel a call to communicate or to
publish whatever his judgment, his sense of truth, and his feelings may prompt him to, even
if he is ignorant of the attitude taken by contemporary science in the matter. The writer wishes
to indicate merely that he holds to the pronouncements he has made. For instance, he would
never have written those few sentences on the human glandular system, nor those regarding man’s
nervous system, contained in this volume, were he not in a position to discuss both subjects
in the terms used by the modern scientist, when speaking of the glandular and nervous systems
from the standpoint of science.

In spite of the fact that it may be said that he who speaks concerning “heat,” as is done here,
knows nothing of the elements of modern physics, yet the author feels himself quite justified,
because he believes that he knows present day research along those lines, and because if it
were unknown to him, he would have left the subject alone. He knows that such utterances may
be ascribed to lack of modesty, but it is necessary to declare his true motives, lest they
should be confounded with others of a very different nature, a result infinitely worse than
a verdict of mere vanity.

He who reads this book as a philosopher, may well ask himself, “Has this author been asleep
to present day research in the field of the theory of cognition? Had he never heard of the
existence of a man called Kant?” this philosopher might ask, “and did he not know that according
to this man it was simply inadmissible, from a philosophic point of view, to put forward such
statements?” and so on, while in conclusion he might remark that stuff of so uncritical, childish,
and unprofessional a nature should not be tolerated among philosophers, and that any further
investigation would be waste of time. However, here again, for reasons already advanced and
at the risk of being again misinterpreted, the writer would fain introduce certain personal
experiences.

His studies of Kant date from his sixteenth year, and he really believes he is now capable
of criticizing quite objectively, from the Kantian point of view, everything that has been
put forward in this book. On this account, too, he might have left this book unwritten were
he not fully aware of what moves a philosopher to pass the verdict of “childishness” whenever
the critical standard of the day is applied. Yet one may actually know that in the Kantian
sense the limits of possible knowledge are here exceeded: one may know in what way Herbart
(who never arrived at an “arrangement of ideas”) would discover his “naive realism.” One may
even know the degree to which the modern pragmatism of James and Schiller and others would
find the bounds of “true presentments” transgressed—those presentments which we are able to
make our own, to vindicate, enforce, and to verify.

We may know all these things and yet, for this very reason, feel justified in holding the views
here presented. The writer has dealt with the tendencies of philosophic thought in his works:
“The Theory of Cognition of Goethe’s World-Concept”; “Truth and Science”; “Philosophy of Freedom”;
“Goethe’s World Concept” and “Views of the World and Life in the Nineteenth Century.”

Many other criticisms might be suggested. Any one who had read some of the writer’s earlier
works: “Views of the World and Life in the Nineteenth Century,” for instance, or a smaller
work on Haeckel and his Opponents, might think it incredible that one and the same man could
have written those books as well as the present work and also his already published “Theosophy.”
“How,” he might ask, “can a man throw himself into the breach for Haeckel, and then, turn around
and discredit every sound theory concerning monism that is the outcome of Haeckel’s researches?”
He might understand the author of this book attacking Haeckel “with fire and sword”; but it
passes the limits of comprehension that, besides defending him, he should actually have dedicated
“Views of the World and Life in the Nineteenth Century” to him. Haeckel, it might be thought,
would have emphatically declined the dedication had he known that the author was shortly to
produce such stuff as An Outline of Occult Science, with all its unwieldy dualism.

The writer of this book is of the opinion that one may very well understand Haeckel without
being bound to consider everything else as nonsense which does not flow directly from Haeckel’s
own presentments and premises. The author is further of the opinion that Haeckel cannot be
understood by attacking him with “fire and sword,” but by trying to grasp what he has done
for science. Least of all does he hold those opponents of Haeckel to be in the right, against
whom he has in his book, Haeckel and his Opponents, sought to defend the great naturalist;
for surely, the fact of his having gone beyond Haeckel’s premises by placing the spiritual
conception of the world side by side with the merely natural one conceived by Haeckel, need
be no reason for assuming that he was of one mind with the latter’s opponents. Any one taking
the trouble to look at the matter in the right light must see that the writer’s recent books
are in perfect accord with those of an earlier date.

But the author can also conceive of a critic who in general and offhand looks upon the presentations
of this book as the out-pourings of a fantasy run wild or as dreamy thought-pictures. Yet all
that can be said in this respect is contained in the book itself, and it is explicitly shown
that sane and earnest thought not only can but must be the touch-stone of all the facts presented.
Only one who submits what is here advanced to logical and adequate examination, such as is
applied to the facts of natural science, will be in a position to decide for himself how much
reason has to say in the matter.

After saying this much about those who may at first be inclined to take exception to this work,
we may perhaps be permitted to address a few words to those on whose sympathetic attention
we can rely. These will find all broad essentials contained in the first chapter, “Concerning
the Nature of Occult Science.” A word, however, must here be added. Although this book deals
with investigations carried beyond the confines of intellect limited to the world of the senses,
yet nothing has been asserted except what can be grasped by any person possessed of unprejudiced
reasoning powers backed by a healthy sense of truth, and who is at the same time willing to
turn these gifts to the best account; and the writer emphatically wishes it to be understood
that he hopes to appeal to readers who will not be content with merely accepting on “blind
faith” the matters presented, but who will take the trouble to test them by the light of their
own understanding and by the experiences of their own lives. Above all, he desires cautious
readers, who will allow themselves to be convinced only by what can be logically justified.
The writer is well aware that his work would be worth nothing were its value to rest on blind
belief; it is valuable only in the degree to which it can be justified by unbiased reason.
It is an easy thing for “blind faith” to confound folly and superstition with truth, and doubtless
many, who have been content to accept the supersensible on mere faith, will be inclined to
think that this book makes too great demands upon their powers of thought. It is not a question
of merely making certain communications, but rather of presenting them in a manner consistent
with a conscientious view of the corresponding plane of life; for this is the plane upon which
the loftiest matters are often handled with unscrupulous charlatanism, and where knowledge
and superstition come into such close contact as to be liable to be confused one with the other.

Any one acquainted with supersensual research will, on reading this book, be able to see that
the author has sought to define the boundary line sharply between what can be communicated
now from the sphere of supersensible cognition, and that which will be given out, at a later
time, or at least, in a different form.

RUDOLF STEINER December, 1909.

CHAPTER I. THE CHARACTER OF OCCULT SCIENCE

At the present time the words “occult science” are apt to arouse the most varied feelings.
Upon some people they work like a magic charm, like the announcement of something to which
they feel attracted by the innermost powers of their soul; to others there is in the words
something repellent, calling forth contempt, derision, or a compassionate smile. By many, occult
science is looked upon as a lofty goal of human effort, the crown of all other knowledge and
cognition; others, who are devoting themselves with the greatest earnestness and noble love
of truth to that which appears to them true science, deem occult science mere idle dreaming
and fantasy, in the same category with what is called superstition. To some, occult science
is like a light without which life would be valueless; to others, it represents a spiritual
danger, calculated to lead astray immature minds and weak souls, while between these two extremes
is to be found every possible intermediate shade of opinion.

Strange feelings are awakened in one who has attained a certain impartiality of judgment in
regard to occult science, its adherents and its opponents, when one sees how people, undoubtedly
possessed of a genuine feeling for freedom in many matters, become intolerant when they meet
with this particular line of thought. And an unprejudiced observer will scarcely fail in this
case to admit that what attracts many adherents of occult science—or occultism—is nothing but
the fatal craving for what is unknown and mysterious, or even vague. And he will also be ready
to own that there is much cogency in the reasons put forward against what is fantastic and
visionary by serious opponents of the cause in question. In fact, one who studies occult science
will do well not to lose sight of the fact that the impulse toward the mysterious leads many
people on a vain chase after worthless and dangerous will-o’-the-wisps.

Even though the occult scientist keeps a watchful eye on all errors and vagaries on the part
of adherents of his views, and on all justifiable antagonism, yet there are reasons which hold
him back from the immediate defence of his own efforts and aspirations. These reasons will
become apparent to any one entering more deeply into occult science. It would therefore be
superfluous to discuss them here. If they were cited before the threshold of this science had
been crossed, they would not suffice to convince one who, held back by irresistible repugnance,
refuses to cross that threshold. But to one who effects an entry, the reasons will soon manifest
themselves, with unmistakable clearness from within.

This much, however, implies that the reasons in question point to a certain attitude as the
only right one for an occult scientist. He avoids, as much as he possibly can, any kind of
outer defence or conflict, and lets the cause speak for itself. He simply puts forward occult
science; and in what it has to say about various matters, he shows how his knowledge is related
to other departments of life and science, what antagonism it may encounter, and in what way
reality stands witness to the truth of his cognitions. He knows that an attempted vindication
would,—not merely on account of current defective thinking but by virtue of a certain inner
necessity,—lead into the domain of artful persuasion; and he desires nothing else than to let
occult science work its own way quite independently.

The first point in occult science is by no means the advancing of assertions or opinions which
are to be proven, but the communication, in a purely narrative form, of experiences which are
to be met with in a world other than the one that is to be seen with physical eyes and touched
with physical hands. And further, it is an important point that through this science the methods
are described by which man may verify for himself the truth of such communications. For one
who makes a serious study of genuine occult science will soon find that thereby much becomes
changed in the conceptions and ideas which are formed—and rightly formed—in other spheres of
life. A wholly new conception necessarily arises also about what has hitherto been called a
“proof.” We come to see that in certain domains such a word loses its usual meaning, and that
there are other grounds for insight and understanding than “proofs” of this kind.

All occult science is born from two thoughts, which may take root in any human being. To the
occult scientist these thoughts express facts which may be experienced if the right methods
for the purpose are used. But to many people these same thoughts represent highly disputable
assertions, which may arouse fierce contention, even if they are not regarded as something
which may be “proven” impossible.

These two thoughts are, first, that behind the visible world there is another, the world invisible,
which is hidden from the senses and also from thought that is fettered by these senses; and
secondly, that it is possible for man to penetrate into that unseen world by developing certain
faculties dormant within him.

Some will say that there is no such hidden world. The world perceived by man through his senses
is the only one. Its enigmas can be solved out of itself. Even if man is still very far from
being able to answer all the questions of existence, the time will certainly come when sense-experience
and the science based upon it will be able to give the answers to all such questions.

Others say that it cannot be asserted that there is no unseen world behind the visible one,
but that human powers of perception are not able to penetrate into that world. Those powers
have bounds which they cannot pass. Faith, with its urgent cravings, may take refuge in such
a world; but true science, based on ascertained facts, can have nothing to do with it.

A third class looks upon it as a kind of presumption for man to attempt to penetrate, by his
own efforts of cognition, into a domain with regard to which he should give up all claim to
knowledge and be content with faith. The adherents of this view feel it to be wrong for weak
human beings to wish to force their way into a world which should belong to religious life.

It is also alleged that a common knowledge of the facts of the sense-world is possible for
mankind, but that in regard to supersensible things it can be merely a question of the individual’s
personal opinion, and that in these matters there can be no possibility of a certainty universally
recognized. And many other assertions are made on the subject.

The occult scientist has convinced himself that a consideration of the visible world propounds
enigmas to man which can never be solved out of the facts of that world itself. Their solution
in this way will never be possible, however far advanced a knowledge of those facts may be.
For visible facts plainly point, through their own inner nature, to the existence of a hidden
world. One who does not see this closes his eyes to the problems which obviously spring up
everywhere out of the facts of the sense-world. He refuses to recognize certain questions and
problems, and therefore thinks that all questions can be answered through facts within reach
of sense perception. The questions which he is willing to ask are all capable of being answered
by the facts which he is convinced will be discovered in the course of time. Every genuine
occultist admits this. But why should one, when he asks no questions, expect answers on certain
subjects? The occult scientist says that to him such questioning is natural, and must be regarded
as a wholly justifiable expression of the human soul. Science is surely not to be confined
within limits which prohibit impartial inquiry.

The opinion that there are bounds to human knowledge which it is impossible to pass, compelling
man to stop short of the invisible world, is thus met by the occult scientist: he says that
there can exist no doubt concerning the impossibility of penetrating into the unseen world
by means of the kind of cognition here meant. One who considers it the only kind can come to
no other opinion than that man is not permitted to penetrate into a possibly existing higher
world. But the occult scientist goes on to say that it is possible to develop a different sort
of cognition, and that this leads into the unseen world. If this kind of cognition is held
to be impossible, we arrive at a point of view from which any mention of an invisible world
appears as sheer nonsense. But to an unbiased judgment there can be no basis for such an opinion
as this, except that its adherent is a stranger to that other kind of cognition. But how can
a person form an opinion about a subject of which he declares himself ignorant? Occult science
must in this case maintain the principle that people should speak only of what they know, and
should not make assertions about anything of which they are ignorant. It can only recognize
every man’s right to communicate his own experiences, not every man’s right to declare the
impossibility of what he does not, or will not, know. The occult scientist disputes no one’s
right to ignore the invisible world; but there can be no real reason why a person should declare
himself an authority, not only on what he may know, but also on things considered unknowable.

To those who say that it is presumption to penetrate into unseen regions, the occult scientist
would merely point out that this can be done, and that it is sinning against the faculties
with which man has been endowed if he allows them to waste instead of developing and using them.

But he who thinks that views about the unseen world are necessarily wholly dependent on personal
opinion and feeling is denying the common essence of all human beings. Even though it is true
that every one must find light on these things within himself, it is also a fact that all those,
who go far enough, arrive at the same, not at different conclusions regarding them. Differences
exist only as long as people will not approach the highest truths by the well-tested path of
occult science, but attempt ways of their own choosing. Genuine occult science will certainly
fully admit that only one who has followed, or at any rate has begun to follow the path of
occult science, is in a position to recognize it as the right one. But all those who follow
that path will recognize its genuineness, and have always done so.

