In the white alkaline road lay one lone, pyramidal rock. It was about the size of one's two
fists and all its edges and corners were sharp. Probably twenty miles of clear space lay on
either flank of that rock. Nevertheless, our right front wheel hit it square in the middle.
The car leaped straight up, the rock popped sidewise, and the tire went off with a mighty bang.
Bill put on the brakes, deliberately uncoiled himself, and descended.

"Seems like tires don't last no time at all in this country," he remarked, sadly. He walked
around the car and began to examine the four wrecks he carried as spares. After some inspection
of their respective merits, he selected one. "I just somehow kain't git over the notion she
ought to sidestep them little rocks and holes of her own accord," he exclaimed. "A hoss is
a plumb, narrow-minded critter, but he knows enough for that."

While he changed the tire--which incidentally involved patching one of half a dozen over-worn
tubes--I looked her over more in detail. The customary frame, strut rods, and torsion rods
had been supplemented by the most extraordinary criss-cross of angle-iron braces it has ever
been my fortune to behold. They ran from anywhere to everywhere beneath that car. I began to
comprehend her cohesiveness.

"Jim Coles, blacksmith at the O T, puts them braces in all our cars," explained Bill. "He's
got her down to a system."

The repair finished and the radiator refilled we resumed the journey. It was now just eleven
o'clock. The odometer reading was 29,276. The temperature was well up toward 100 degrees. But
beneath the disreputable top, and while in motion, the heat was not noticeable. Nevertheless,
the brief stop had brought back poignantly certain old days--choking dust, thirst, the heat
of a heavy sun, the long day that led one nowhere----

The noon mirages were taking shape, throwing stately and slow their vast illusions across the
horizon. Lakes glimmered; distant ranges took on the forms of phantasm, rising higher, flattening,
reaching across space the arches of their spans, rendering unreal a world of beauty and dread.
That in the old days was the deliberate fashion the desert had of searing men's souls with
her majesty. Slowly, slowly, the changes melted one into the other; massively, deliberately
the face of the world was altered; so that at last the poor plodding human being, hot, dry,
blinded, thirsty, felt himself a nothing in the presence of eternities. Well I knew that old
spell of the desert. But now! Honestly, after a few minutes I began to feel sorry for the poor
old desert! Its spells didn't work for the simple reason that we didn't give it time! We charged
down on its phantom lakes and disproved them and forgot them. We broke right in on the dignified
and deliberate scene shifting of mountains and mesas, showed them up for the brittle, dry hills
they were, and left them behind. It was pitiful! It was as though a revered tragedian should
overnight find that his vogue had departed; that he was no longer getting over; that an irreverent
upstart, breaking in on his most sonorous periods, was getting laughs with slang. We had lots
of water; the dust we left behind; it wasn't even hot in the wind of our going!

In the shallow crease of hills a shimmer of white soon changed to evident houses. We drew into
a straggling desert town.

It was typical--thirty miles from the railroad, a distributing point for the cattle country.
Four broad buildings with peeled, sunburned faces, a wooden house or so, and a dozen flat-roofed
adobe huts hung pleasingly with long strips of red peppers. Of course one of the wooden buildings
was labelled General Store; and another, smaller, contained a barber shop and postoffice combined.
The third was barred and unoccupied. The fourth had been a livery stable but was now a garage.
Six saddle horses and six Fords stood outside the General Store, which was a fair division.

Bill slowed down.

"Have a drink," I observed, hospitably.

"Arizona's a dry state," Bill reminded me; but nevertheless stopped and uncoiled. That unbelievable
phenomenon had escaped my memory. In the old days I used to shut my eyes and project my soul
into what I imagined was the future. I saw Arizona, embottled, dying in the last-wet ditch,
while all the rest of the world, even including Milwaukee, bore down on her carrying the banners
of Prohibition. So much for prophecy. I voiced a thought.

"There must be an awful lot of old timers died this spring. You can't cut them off short and
hope to save them."

Bill grunted.

We entered the store. It smelled good, as such stores always do--soap, leather, ground coffee,
bacon, cheese--all sorts of things. On the right ran a counter and shelves of dry goods and
clothing; on the left groceries, cigars, and provisions generally. Down the middle saddles,
ropes, spurs, pack outfits, harness, hardware. In the rear a glass cubby-hole with a desk inside.
All that was customary, right and proper. But I noticed also a glass case with spark plugs
and accessories; a rack full of tires; and a barrel of lubricating oil. I did not notice any
body polish. By the front door stood a paper-basket whose purport I understood not at all.

Bill led me at once past two or three lounging cow persons to the cubbyhole, where arose a
typical old timer.

"Mr. White, meet Mr. Billings," he said.

The old timer grasped me firmly by the right hand and held tight while he demanded, as usual,
"What name?" We informed him together. He allowed he was pleased. I allowed the same.

"I want to buy a yard of calico," said Bill.

The old timer reached beneath the counter and produced a strip of cloth. It was already cut,
and looked to be about a yard long. Also it showed the marks of loving but brutal and soiled hands.

"Wrap it up?" inquired Mr. Billings.

"Nope," said Bill, and handed out three silver dollars. Evidently calico was high in these
parts. We turned away.

"By the way, Bill," Mr. Billings called after us, "I got a little present here for you. Some
friends sent her in to me the other day. Let me know what you think of it."

We turned. Mr. Billings held in his hand a sealed quart bottle with a familiar and famous label.

"Why, that's kind of you," said Bill, gravely. He took the proffered bottle, turned it upside
down, glanced at the bottom, and handed it back. "But I don't believe I'd wish for none of
that particular breed. It never did agree with my stummick."

Without a flicker of the eye the storekeeper produced a second sealed bottle, identical in
appearance and label with the first.

"Try it," he urged. "Here's one from a different case. Some of these yere vintages is better
than others."

"So I've noticed," replied Bill, dryly. He glanced at the bottom and slipped it into his pocket.

We went out. As we passed the door Bill, unobserved, dropped into the heretofore unexplained
waste-basket the yard of calico he had just purchased.

"Don't believe I like the pattern for my boudoir," he told me, gravely.

We clambered aboard and shot our derisive exhaust at the diminishing town.

"Thought Arizona was a dry state," I suggested.

"She is. You cain't sell a drop. But you can keep stuff for personal use. There ain't nothing
more personal than givin' it away to your friends."

"The price of calico is high down here."

"And goin' up," agreed Bill, gloomily. He drove ten miles in silence while I, knowing my type,
waited.

"That old Billings ought to be drug out and buried," he remarked at last. "We rode together
on the Chiracahua range. He ought to know better than to try to put it onto me."

"???" said I.

"You saw that first bottle? Just plain forty-rod dog poison--and me payin' three good round
dollars!"

"For calico," I reminded.

"Shore. That's why he done it. He had me--if I hadn't called him."

"But that first bottle was identically the same as the one you have in your pocket," I stated.

"Shore?"

"Why, yes--at least--that is, the bottle and label were the same, and I particularly noticed
the cork seal looked intact."

"It was," agreed Bill. "That cap hasn't never been disturbed. You're right."

"Then what objection----"

"It's one of them wonders of modern science that spoils the simple life next to Nature's heart,"
said Bill, unexpectedly. "You hitch a big hollow needle onto an electric light current. When
she gets hot enough you punch a hole with her in the bottom of the bottle. Then you throw the
switch and let the needle cool off. When she's cool you pour out the real thing for your own
use--mebbe. Then you stick in your forty-cent-a-gallon squirrel poison. Heat up your needle
again. Draw her out very slow so the glass will close up behind her. Simple, neat, effective,
honest enough for down here. Cork still there, seal still there, label still there. Bottle
still there, except for a little bit of a wart-lookin' bubble in the bottom."

It was now in the noon hour. Knowing cowboys of old I expected no lunch. We racketed along,
and our dust tried to catch us, and sleepy, accustomed jack rabbits made two perfunctory hops
as we turned on them the battery of our exhaust.

We dipped down into a carved bottomland, several miles wide, filled with minarets, peaks, vermilion
towers, and strange striped labyrinths of many colours above which the sky showed an unbelievable
blue. The trunks of colossal trees lay about in numbers. Apparently they had all been cross-cut
in sections like those sawed for shake bolts, for each was many times clearly divided. The
sections, however, lay all in place; so the trunks of the trees were as they had fallen. About
the ground were scattered fragments of rock of all sizes, like lava, but of all the colours
of the giddiest parrots. The tiniest piece had at least all the tints of the spectrum; and
the biggest seemed to go the littlest several better. They looked to me like beautiful jewels.
Bill cast at them a contemptuous glance.

"Every towerist I take in yere makes me stop while he sags down the car with this junk," he
said. Whenever I say "Bill said" or "I said," I imply that we shrieked, for always through
that great, still country we hustled enveloped in a profanity of explosions, creaks, rattles,
and hums. Just now though, on a level, we travelled at a low gear. "Petrified wood," Bill added.

I swallowed guiltily the request I was about to proffer.

The malpais defined itself. We came to a wide, dry wash filled with white sand. Bill brought
the little car to a stop.

Well I know that sort of sand! You plunge rashly into it on low gear; you buzz bravely for
possibly fifty feet; you slow down, slow down; your driving wheels begin to spin--that finishes
you. Every revolution digs a deeper hole. It is useless to apply power. If you are wise you
throw out your clutch the instant she stalls, and thus save digging yourself in unnecessarily.
But if you are really wise you don't get in that fix at all. The next stage is that wherein
you thrust beneath the hind wheels certain expedients such as robes, coats, and so forth. The
wheels, when set in motion, hurl these trivialities yards to the rear. The car then settles
down with a shrug. About the time the axle is actually resting on the sand you proceed to serious
digging, cutting brush, and laying causeways. Some sand you can get out of by these methods,
but not dry, stream-bed sand in the Southwest. Finally you reach; the state of true wisdom.
Either you sit peacefully in the tonneau and smoke until someone comes along; or, if you are
doubtful of that miracle, you walk to the nearest team and rope. And never, never, never are
you caught again! A détour of fifty miles is nothing after that!

While Bill manipulated the makings, I examined the prospects. This was that kind of a wash;
no doubt of it!

"How far is the nearest crossing?" I asked, returning.

"About eight feet," said he.

My mind, panic-stricken, flew to several things--that bottle (I regret that I failed to record
that by test its contents had proved genuine), the cornered rock we had so blithely charged,
other evidences of Bill's casual nature. My heart sank.

"You ain't going to tackle that wash!" I cried.

"I shore am," said Bill.

I examined Bill. He meant it.

"How far to the nearest ranch?"

"'Bout ten mile."

I went and sat on a rock. It was one of those rainbow remnants of a bygone past; but my interest
in curios had waned.

Bill dove into the grimy mysteries of under the back seat and produced two blocks of wood six
or eight inches square and two strong straps with buckles. He inserted a block between the
frame of the car and the rear axle; then he ran a strap around the rear spring and cinched
on it until the car body, the block, and the axle made one solid mass. In other words, the
spring action was entirely eliminated. He did the same thing on the other side.

"Climb in," said he.

We went into low and slid down the steep clay bank into the waiting sand. To me it was like
a plunge into ice water. Bill stepped on her. We ploughed out into trouble. The steering wheel
bucked and jerked vainly against Bill's huge hands; we swayed like a moving-picture comic;
but we forged steadily ahead. Not once did we falter. Our wheels gripped continuously. When
we pulled out on the other bank I exhaled as though I, too, had lost my muffler. I believe
I had held my breath the whole way across. Bill removed the blocks and gave her more water.
Still in low we climbed out of the malpais.

It was now after two o'clock. We registered 29,328. I was getting humble minded. Six o'clock
looked good enough to me now.

One thing was greatly encouraging. As we rose again to the main level of the country I recognized
over the horizon a certain humped mountain. Often in the "good old days" I had approached this
mountain from the south. Beneath its flanks lay my friend's ranch, our destination. Five hours
earlier in my experience its distance would have appalled me; but my standards had changed.
Nevertheless, it seemed far enough away. I was getting physically tired. There is a heap of
exercise in many occupations, such as digging sewers and chopping wood and shopping with a
woman; but driving in small Arizona motor cars need give none of these occupations any odds.
And of late years I have been accustoming myself to three meals a day.

For this reason there seems no excuse for detailing the next three hours. From three o'clock
until sunset the mirages slowly fade away into the many-tinted veils of evening. I know that
because I've seen it; but never would I know it whilst an inmate of a gasoline madhouse. We
carried our own egg-shaped aura constantly with us, on the invisible walls of which the subtle
and austere influences of the desert beat in vain. That aura was composed of speed, bumps,
dust, profane noise, and an extreme and exotic busyness. It might be that in a docile, tame,
expensive automobile, garnished with a sane and biddable driver, one might see the desert as
it is. I don't know whether such a combination exists. But me--I couldn't get into the Officers'
Training Camp because of my advanced years: I may be an old fogy, but I cherish a sneaking
idea that perhaps you have to buy some of these things at the cost of the aforementioned thirst,
heat, weariness, and the slow passing of long days. Still, an Assyrian brick in the British
Museum is inscribed by a father to his son away at school with a lament over the passing of
the "good old days!"

At any rate, we drew into Spring Creek at five o'clock, shooting at every jump. My friend's
ranch was only six miles farther. This was home for Bill, and we were soon surrounded by many
acquaintances. He had letters and packages for many of them; and detailed many items of local
news. To us shortly came a cowboy who had evidently bought all the calico he could carry. This
person was also long and lean and brown; hard bitten; bedecked with worn brown leather chaps,
and wearing a gun. The latter he unbuckled and cast from him with great scorn.

"And I don't need no gun to do it, neither!" he stated, as though concluding a long conversation.

"Shore not, Slim," agreed one of the group, promptly annexing the artillery. "What is it?"

"Kill that ---- ---- ---- Beck," said Slim, owlishly. "I can do it; and I can do it with my
bare hands, b' God!"

He walked sturdily enough in the direction of the General Store across the dusty square. No
one paid any further attention to his movements. The man who had picked up the gun belt buckled
it around his own waist. Bill refilled the ever-thirsty radiator, peered at his gasoline gauge,
leisurely turned down a few grease cups. Ten minutes passed. We were about ready to start.

Back across the square drifted a strange figure. With difficulty we recognized it as the erstwhile
Slim. He had no hat. His hair stuck out in all directions. One eye was puffing shut, blood
oozed from a cut in his forehead and dripped from his damaged nose. One shirt sleeve had been
half torn from its parent at the shoulder. But, most curious of all, Slim's face was evenly
marked by a perpendicular series of long, red scratches as though he had been dragged from
stem to stern along a particularly abrasive gravel walk. Slim seemed quite calm.

His approach was made in a somewhat strained silence. At length there spoke a dry, sardonic voice.

"Well," said it, "did you kill Beck?"

"Naw!" replied Slim's remains disgustedly, "the son of a gun wouldn't fight!"

We reached my friend's ranch just about dusk. He met me at the yard gate.

"Well!" he said, heartily. "I'm glad you're here! Not much like the old days, is it?"

I agreed with him.

"Journey out is dull and uninteresting now. But compared to the way we used to do it, it is
a cinch. Just sit still and roll along."

I disagreed with him--mentally.

"The old order has changed," said he.

"Yes," I agreed, "now it's one yard of calico."

THE RANCH

CHAPTER I

THE NEW AND THE OLD

The old ranching days of California are to all intents and purposes past and gone. To be sure
there remain many large tracts supporting a single group of ranch buildings, and over which
the cattle wander "on a thousand hills." There are even a few, a very few--like the ranch of
which I am going to write--that are still undivided, still game haunted, still hospitable,
still delightful. But in spite of these apparent exceptions, my first statement must stand.
About the large tracts swarm real estate men, eager for the chance to subdivide into small
farms--and the small farmers pour in from the East at the rate of a thousand a month. No matter
how sternly the old land-lords set their faces against the new order of things, the new order
of things will prevail; for sooner or late old land-lords must die, and the heirs have not
in them the spirit of the ancient tradition. This is, of course, best for the country and for
progress; but something passes, and is no more. So the Chino ranch and more recently Lucky
Baldwin's broad acres have yielded.

And even in the case of those that still remain intact, whose wide hills and plains graze thousands
of head of cattle; whose pastures breed their own cowhorses; whose cowmen, wearing still with
a twist of pride the all-but-vanished regalia of their all-but-vanished calling, refuse to
drop back to the humdrum status of "farm hands on a cow ranch"; even here has entered a single
element powerful enough to change the old to something new. The new may be better--it is certainly
more convenient--and perhaps when all is said and done we would not want to go back to the
old. But the old is gone. One single modern institution has been sufficient to render it completely
of the past. That institution is the automobile.

In the old days--and they are but yesterdays, after all--the ranch was perforce an isolated
community. The journey to town was not to be lightly undertaken; indeed, as far as might be,
it was obviated altogether. Blacksmithing, carpentry, shoe cobbling, repairing, barbering,
and even mild doctoring were all to be done on the premises. Nearly every item of food was
raised at home, including vegetables, fruit, meat, eggs, fowl, butter, and honey. Above all,
the inhabitants of that ranch settled down comfortably into the realization that their only
available community was that immediately about them; and so they both made and were influenced
by the individual atmosphere of the place.

In the latter years they have all purchased touring cars, and now they run to town casually,
on almost any excuse. They make shopping lists as does the city dweller; they go back for things
forgotten; and they return to the ranch as one returns to his home on the side streets of a
great city. In place of the old wonderful and impressive expeditions to visit in state the
nearest neighbour (twelve miles distant), they drop over of an afternoon for a ten-minutes'
chat. The ranch is no longer an environment in which one finds the whole activity of his existence,
but a dwelling place from which one goes forth.

I will admit that this is probably a distinct gain; but the fact is indubitable that, even
in these cases where the ranch life has not been materially changed otherwise, the automobile
has brought about a condition entirely new. And as the automobile has fortunately come to stay,
the old will never return. It is of the old, and its charm and leisure, that I wish to write.

CHAPTER II

THE OLD WEST

I went to the ranch many years ago, stepping from the train somewhere near midnight into a
cold, crisp air full of stars. My knowledge of California was at that time confined to several
seasons spent on the coast, where the straw hat retires only in deference to a tradition which
none of the flowers seem bound to respect. As my dress accorded with this experience, I was
very glad to be conducted across the street to a little hotel. My guide was an elderly, very
brown man, with a white moustache, and the bearing of an army regular. This latter surmise
later proved correct. Manning was one of the numerous old soldiers who had fought through the
General's Apache campaigns, and who now in his age had drifted back to be near his old commander.
He left me, after many solicitations as to my comfort, and a promise to be back with the team
at seven o'clock sharp.

Promptly at that hour he drew up by the curb. My kit bag was piled aboard, and I clambered
in beside the driver. Manning touched his team. We were off.

The rig was of the sort usual to the better California ranches of the day, and so, perhaps,
worth description. It might best be defined as a rather wide, stiff buckboard set on springs,
and supported by stout running gear. The single seat was set well forward, while the body of
the rig extended back to receive the light freight an errand to town was sure to accumulate.
An ample hood top of gray canvas could be raised for protection against either sun, wind, or
rain. Most powerful brakes could be manipulated by a thrust of the driver's foot. You may be
sure they were outside brakes. Inside brakes were then considered the weak expedients of a
tourist driving mercenary. Generally the tongue and moving gear were painted cream; and the
body of the vehicle dark green.

