Transcriber's note:

      Passages in italics are enclosed between underscores
      (italics). However, it
     was Alexander Graham Bell, long a Smithsonian Regent and friend of
     its third Secretary S. P. Langley, who, with his Volta Laboratory
     associates made practical the phonograph, which has been called
     Edison's most original invention.

     THE AUTHOR: Leslie J. Newville wrote this paper while he was
     attached to the office of the curator of Science and Technology in
     the Smithsonian Institution's United States National Museum.

The story of Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone has been told and retold. How
he became involved in the difficult task of making practical phonograph records, and succeeded
(in association with Charles Sumner Tainter and Chichester Bell), is not so well known.

But material collected through the years by the U. S. National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution
now makes clear how Bell and two associates took Edison's tinfoil machine and made it reproduce
sound from wax instead of tinfoil. They began their work in Washington, D. C., in 1879, and
continued until granted basic patents in 1886 for recording in wax.

Preserved at the Smithsonian are some 20 pieces of experimental apparatus, including a number
of complete machines. Their first experimental machine was sealed in a box and deposited in
the Smithsonian archives in 1881. The others were delivered by Alexander Graham Bell to the
National Museum in two lots in 1915 and 1922. Bell was an old man by this time, busy with his
aeronautical experiments in Nova Scotia.

It was not until 1947, however, that the Museum received the key to the experimental "Graphophones,"
as they were called to differentiate them from the Edison machine. In that year Mrs. Laura
F. Tainter donated to the Museum 10 bound notebooks, along with Tainter's unpublished autobiography.[1]
This material describes in detail the strange machines and even stranger experiments which
led in 1886 to a greatly improved phonograph.

Thomas A. Edison had invented the phonograph in 1877. But the fame bestowed on Edison for this
startling invention (sometimes called his most original) was not due to its efficiency. Recording
with the tinfoil phonograph is too difficult to be practical. The tinfoil tears easily, and
even when the stylus is properly adjusted, the reproduction is distorted and squeaky, and good
for only a few playbacks. Nevertheless young Edison, the "wizard" as he was called, had hit
upon a secret of which men had dreamed for centuries.[2] Immediately after this discovery,
however, he did not improve it, allegedly because of an agreement to spend the next five years
developing the New York City electric light and power system.

Meanwhile Bell, always a scientist and experimenter at heart, after his invention of the telephone
in 1876 was looking for new worlds to conquer. If we accept Tainter's version of the story,
it was through Gardiner Green Hubbard that Bell took up the phonograph challenge. Bell had
married Hubbard's daughter Mabel in 1879. Hubbard was then president of the Edison Speaking
Phonograph Co., and his organization, which had purchased the Edison patent, was having trouble
with its finances because people did not like to buy a machine which seldom worked well and
proved difficult for an unskilled person to operate.

In 1879 Hubbard got Bell interested in improving the machine, and it was agreed that a laboratory
should be set up in Washington. Experiments were also to be conducted on the transmission of
sound by light, and this resulted in the selenium-cell Photophone, patented in 1881. Both the
Hubbards and the Bells decided to move to the Capital. While Bell took his bride to Europe
for an extended honeymoon, his associate Charles Sumner Tainter, a young instrument maker,
was sent on to Washington from Cambridge, Massachusetts, to start the laboratory.[3] Bell's
cousin, Chichester Bell, who had been teaching college chemistry in London, agreed to come
as the third associate. During his stay in Europe Bell received the 50,000-franc ($10,000)
Volta prize, and it was with this money that the Washington project, the Volta Laboratory Association,[4]
was financed.

Tainter's story, in his autobiography, of the establishment of the laboratory, shows its comparative
simplicity:

I therefore wound up my business affairs in Cambridge, packed up all of my tools and machines,
and ... went to Washington, and after much search, rented a vacant house on L Street, between
13th and 14th Streets, and fitted it up for our purpose.[5]... The Smithsonian Institution
sent us over a mail sack of scientific books from the library of the Institution, to consult,
and primed with all we could learn ... we went to work.[6]... We were like the explorers in
an entirely unknown land, where one has to select the path that seems to be most likely to
get you to your destination, with no knowledge of what is ahead.

In conducting our work we had first to design an experimental apparatus, then hunt about, often
in Philadelphia and New York, for the materials with which to construct it, which were usually
hard to find, and finally build the models we needed, ourselves.[7]

The experimental machines built at the Volta Laboratory include both disc and cylinder types,
and an interesting "tape" recorder. The records used with the machines and now in the collections
of the U. S. National Museum, are believed to be the oldest reproducible records preserved
anywhere in the world. While some are scratched and cracked, others are still in good condition.

By 1881 the Volta associates had succeeded in improving an Edison tinfoil machine to some extent.
Wax was put in the grooves of the heavy iron cylinder, and no tinfoil was used. Rather than
apply for a patent at that time, however, they deposited the machine in a sealed box at the
Smithsonian, and specified that it was not to be opened without the consent of two of the three
men. In 1937 Tainter (fig. 1) was the only one still living, so the box was opened with his
permission.

For the occasion, the heirs of Alexander Graham Bell gathered in Washington, but Tainter was
too old and too ill to come from San Diego.

The sound vibrations had been indented in the wax which had been applied to the Edison phonograph.
The following is the text of the recording: "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
than are dreamed of in your philosophy. I am a graphophone and my mother was a phonograph."
Remarked Mrs. Gilbert Grosvenor,[8] Bell's daughter, when the box was opened in 1937, "That
is just the sort of thing father would have said. He was always quoting from the classics."

[Figure 4.--PATENT DRAWINGS from U. S. patent 341214, granted May 4, 1886, to Chichester Bell
and C. S. Tainter.]

The method of reproduction used on the machine, however, is even more interesting than the
quotation. Rather than a stylus and diaphragm, a jet of air under high pressure was used.

"This evening about 7 P. M.," Tainter noted on July 7, 1881, "The apparatus being ready the
valve upon the top of the air cylinder was opened slightly until a pressure of about 100 lbs.
was indicated by the gage. The phonograph cylinder was then rotated, and the sounds produced
by the escaping air could be heard, and the words understood a distance of at least 8 feet
from the phonograph." The point of the jet is glass, and could be directed at a single groove.

The other experimental Graphophones indicate an amazing range of experimentation. While the
method of cutting a record on wax was the one later exploited commercially, everything else
seems to have been tried at least once.

The following was noted on Wednesday, March 20, 1881: "A fountain pen is attached to a diaphragm
so as to be vibrated in a plane parallel to the axis of a cylinder--The ink used in this pen
to contain iron in a finely divided state, and the pen caused to trace a spiral line around
the cylinder as it turned. The cylinder to be covered with a sheet of paper upon which the
record is made.... This ink ... can be rendered magnetic by means of a permanent magnet. The
sounds were to be reproduced by simply substituting a magnet for the fountain pen...."

The result of these ideas for magnetic reproduction resulted in patent 341287, granted on May
4, 1886; it deals solely with "the reproduction, through the action of magnetism, of sounds
by means of records in solid substances."

The air jet used in reproducing has already been described. Other jets, of molten metal, wax,
and water, were also tried. On Saturday, May 19, 1883, Tainter wrote (see fig. 3):

     Made the following experiment today:

     The cylinder of the Edison phonograph was covered with the coating
     of paraffine-wax and then turned off true and smooth.

     A cutting style A., secured to the end of a lever B was then
     adjusted over the cylinder, as shown. Lever B was pivoted at the
     points C-D, and the only pressure exerted to force the style into
     the wax was due to the weight of the parts.

     Upon the top of A was fixed a small brass disk, and immediately
     over it a sensitive water jet adjusted, so that the stream of water
     at its sensitive part fell upon the center of the brass disk.

     The Phonograph cylinder E, was rotated while words and sounds were
     shouted to the support to which the water jet was attached, and a
     record that was quite visible to the unaided eye was the result.

The tape recorder, an unusual instrument which recorded mechanically on a 3/16-inch strip of
wax-covered paper, is one of the machines described and illustrated in U. S. patent 341214,
dated May 4, 1886 (see fig. 4). The strip was coated by dipping it in a solution of beeswax
and paraffine (one part white beeswax, two parts paraffine, by weight), then scraping one side
clean and allowing the other side to harden.

The machine of sturdy wood and metal construction, is hand powered by means of a knob fastened
to the fly wheel. From the fly-wheel shaft power is transferred by a small friction wheel to
a vertical shaft. At the bottom of this shaft a V-pulley transfers motion by belts to corresponding
V-pulleys beneath the horizontal reels.

The wax strip passes from one 8-inch reel around the periphery of a pulley (with guide flanges)
mounted above the V-pulleys on the main vertical shaft, where it comes in contact with the
recording or reproducing stylus. It is then taken up on the other reel.

The sharp recording stylus, actuated by a vibrating mica diaphragm, cuts the wax from the strip.
In reproducing, a dull, loosely mounted stylus, attached to a rubber diaphragm, carried sounds
through an ear tube to the listener.

Both recording and reproducing heads, mounted alternately on the same two posts, could be adjusted
vertically so that several records could be cut on the same 3/16-inch strip.

While this machine was never developed commercially, it is an interesting ancestor of the modern
tape recorder, which it resembles somewhat in design. How practical it was or just why it was
built we do not know. The tape is now brittle, the heavy paper reels warped, and the reproducing
head missing. Otherwise, with some reconditioning, it could be put into working condition.

Most of the disc machines designed by the Volta associates had the disc mounted vertically
(see figs. 5 and 6). The explanation is that in the early experiments, the turntable, with
disc, was mounted on the shop lathe, along with the recording and reproducing heads. Later,
when the complete models were built, most of them featured vertical turntables.

An interesting exception has a horizontal 7-inch turntable (see figs. 7 and 8). This machine,
although made in 1886, is a duplicate of one made earlier but taken to Europe by Chichester
Bell. Tainter was granted U. S. patent 385886 for it on July 10, 1888.

The playing arm is rigid, except for a pivoted vertical motion of 90 degrees to allow removal
of the record or a return to starting position. While recording or playing, the record not
only rotated, but moved laterally under the stylus, which thus described a spiral, recording
150 grooves to the inch.

The Bell and Tainter records, preserved at the Smithsonian, are both of the lateral cut and
"hill-and-dale" types. Edison for many years used the "hill-and-dale" method with both cylinder
and disc records, and Emile Berliner is credited with the invention of the lateral cut Gramophone
record in 1887. The Volta associates, however, had been experimenting with both types, as early
as 1881, as is shown by the following quotation from Tainter:[9]

     The record on the electro-type in the Smithsonian package is of the
     other form, where the vibrations are impressed parallel to the
     surface of the recording material, as was done in the old Scott
     Phonautograph of 1857, thus forming a groove of uniform depth, but
     of wavy character, in which the sides of the groove act upon the
     tracing point instead of the bottom, as is the case in the vertical
     type. This form we named the zig-zag form, and referred to it in
     that way in our notes. Its important advantage in guiding the
     reproducing needle I first called attention to in the note on p.
     9-Vol 1-Home Notes on March 29-1881, and endeavored to use it in my
     early work, but encountered so much difficulty in getting a form of
     reproducer that would work with the soft wax records without
     tearing the groove, we used the hill and valley type of record more
     often than the other.

In 1885, when the Volta associates were sure that they had a number of practical inventions,
they filed applications for patents. They also began to look around for investors. After giving
several demonstrations in Washington, they gained the necessary support, and the American Graphophone
Co. was organized to manufacture and sell the machines. The Volta Graphophone Co. was formed
to control the patents.

The Howe sewing machine factory at Bridgeport, Connecticut, became the American Graphophone
plant; Tainter went there to supervise the manufacturing, and continued his inventive work
for many years. This Bridgeport plant is still in use today by a successor firm, the Dictaphone
Corporation.

The work of the Volta associates laid the foundation for the successful use of the dictating
machine in business, for their wax recording process was practical and their machines sturdy.
But it was to take several more years and the renewed work of Edison and further developments
by Berliner and many others, before the talking machine industry really got under way and became
a major factor in home entertainment.[10]

PATENTS WHICH RESULTED FROM THE VOLTA LABORATORY ASSOCIATION

  Patent
  Number   Year        Patent                 Inventors
  229495     1880    Telephone call register      C. S. Tainter
  235496     1880    Photophone transmitter       A. G. Bell,
                                                    C. S. Tainter
  235497     1880    Selenium cells               A. G. Bell,
                                                    C. S. Tainter
  235590     1800    Selenium cells               C. S. Tainter
  241909     1881    Photophonic receiver         A. G. Bell,
                                                    C. S. Tainter
  243657     1881    Telephone transmitter        C. S. Tainter
  289725     1883    Electric conductor           C. S. Tainter
  336081     1886    Transmitter for electric     C. A. Bell
                       telephone lines
  336082     1886    Jet microphone for           C. A. Bell
                       transmitting sounds
                       by means of jets
  336083     1886    Telephone transmitter        C. A. Bell
  336173     1886    Telephone transmitter        C. S. Tainter
  341212     1886    Reproducing sounds           A. G. Bell,
                       from phonograph              C. A. Bell,
                       records                      C. S. Tainter
  341213     1886    Reproducing and              A. G. Bell,
                       recording sounds by          C. A. Bell,
                       radiant energy               C. S. Tainter
  341214     1886    Recording and reproducing    C. A. Bell,
                       speech and other sounds     C. S. Tainter
  341287     1886    Recording and reproducing    C. S. Tainter
                       sounds
  341288     1886    Apparatus for recording      C. S. Tainter
                       and reproducing sounds
  374133     1887    Paper cylinder for           C. S. Tainter
                      graphophonic records
  375579     1887    Apparatus for recording      C. S. Tainter
                      and reproducing speech
                      and other sounds
  380535     1888    Graphophone                  C. S. Tainter
  385886     1888    Graphophone                  C. S. Tainter
  385887     1888    Graphophonic tablet          C. S. Tainter
  388462     1888    Machine for making           C. S. Tainter
                       paper tubes
  392763     1888    Mounting for diaphragms      C. S. Tainter
                       for acoustical
                       instruments
  393190     1888    Tablet for use in            C. S. Tainter
                       graphophones
  393191     1888    Support for graphophonic     C. S. Tainter
                       tablets
  416969     1889    Speed regulator              C. S. Tainter
  421450     1890    Graphophone tablet           C. S. Tainter
  428646     1890    Machine for the manufacture  C. S. Tainter
                       of wax coated tablets for
                       graphophones
  506348    1893    Coin controlled graphophone   C. S. Tainter
  510656    1893    Reproducer for graphophones   C. S. Tainter
  670442    1901    Graphophone record            C. S. Tainter
                       duplicating machine
  730986    1903    Graphophone                   C. S. Tainter

CONTENTS OF SMALL CHEST RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM MRS. LAURA F. TAINTER, 1947

Books (10) containing the home notes, volumes 1 to 8 and 11 and 12,
    inclusive, March 1881-November 1883. (Vols, 9, 10, and 13 were burned
    in a laboratory fire, September 1897.)

Binder containing drawings and notes for multiple record duplicator,
    October 8, 1897-1908, and miscellaneous inquiries, log, telegraph
    recorder, diet, home plans.

Binder containing printed specifications of patents, S. Tainter, A. G.
    Bell, and C. A. Bell, June 29, 1880 to June 16, 1903.

Medal, Exposition Internationale d'Electricite, Paris, 1881, marked
    "Tainter."

Medal, Panama-Pacific Exposition, San Francisco, 1915, Medal of Award.

Seven purple lapel rosettes (?), one with ribbon and palms, in boxes
    marked "1890." Notes in newspaper clipping.

Records of testimony of C. S. Tainter in various suits involving the
    phonograph: Volta Graphophone Co. vs. Columbia Phonograph Co.,
    no. 14533, Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, dated January 13,
    1894; American Graphophone Co. vs. U. S. Phonograph Co., U. S.
    Circuit Court, New Jersey, dated May 14, 1895; American Graphophone Co.
    vs. Edw. H. Amet, U. S. Circuit Court, Northern District, Illinois,
    in equity, dated February 14, 1896; American Graphophone Co. vs.
    U. S. Phonograph Co., et al., U. S. Circuit Court, New Jersey, in
    equity, no date; American Graphophone Co. vs. Leeds et al., U. S.
    Circuit Court, Two District, New York, N. Y., no date; testimony marked
    "Questions asked in Edison Co. suits" (duplicate copies) no date, no
    citation. (plus many
    photostats of notes and articles) 4-1/2 inches thick, pp. 1-71 to
    about 1878, pp. 1 to 104 to factory at Bridgeport, some pages missing.

Box--containing handwritten notes for "memoirs" includes copies of text
    of above (less photostats); copies of short biography; agreement
    creating American Graphophone Co.; letter of election to life
    membership in the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Binder--exhibits of Tainter drawings in American Graphophone Co. vs.
    Edison Phonograph Works., vol. 1, U. S. Circuit Court, New Jersey.

Folder--clippings and photostats relating to the machines deposited in
    Smithsonian.

Certificate of appointment "Officer de l'Instruction publique," France,
    October 31, 1889, for exhibition of Graphophone, Exposition
    Universelle, 1889.

Framed photo of Berliner & Tainter, 1919.

Photo of Tainter, 1919.

Separate package containing gold medal, certificate, Panama-Pacific
    Exposition, San Francisco, 1915; gold medal, certificate, Exposition
    Internationale Electricite, Paris, 1881.

Footnotes:

[1] Charles Sumner Tainter (1854-1940), "The talking machine and some little known facts in
connection with its early development," unpublished manuscript in the collections of the U.
S. National Museum.

[2] One of the most interesting prophecies was written in 1656 by Cyrano de Bergerac, in his
Comic history of the states and empires of the Moon:

"'I began to study closely my books and their covers which impressed me for their richness.
One was decorated with a single diamond, more brilliant by far than ours. The second seemed
but a single pearl cleft in twain.

"'When I opened the covers, I found inside something made of metal, not unlike our clocks,
full of mysterious little springs and almost invisible mechanisms. 'Tis a book, 'tis true,
but a miraculous book, which has no pages or letters. Indeed, 'tis a book which to enjoy the
eyes are useless; only ears suffice. When a man desires to read, then, he surrounds this contrivance
with many small tendons of every kind, then he places the needle on the chapter to be heard
and, at the same time, there come, as from the mouth of a man or from an instrument of music,
all those clear and separate sounds which make up the Lunarians' tongue.'" (See A. Coeuroy
and G. Clarence, Le phonographe, Paris, 1929, p. 9, 10.)

[3] Tainter retained a lifelong admiration for Alexander Graham Bell. This is Tainter's description
of their first meeting in Cambridge: "... one day I received a visit from a very distinguished
looking gentleman with jet black hair and beard, who announced himself as Mr. A. Graham Bell.
His charm of manner and conversation attracted me greatly...." Tainter, op. cit. (footnote
1), p. 2.

[4] A. G. Bell apparently spent little time in the Volta Laboratory. The Dr. Bell referred
to in Tainter's notebooks is Chichester A. Bell. The basic graphophone patent (U. S. patent
341214) was issued to C. A. Bell and Tainter. The Tainter material reveals A. G. Bell as the
man who suggested the basic lines of research (and furnished the money), and then allowed his
associates to get the credit for many of the inventions that resulted.

[5] Tainter, op. cit. (footnote 1), p. 3.

[6] Ibid., p. 5.

[7] Ibid., p. 30.

[8] As quoted by The Washington Herald, October 28, 1937.

[9] Tainter, op. cit. (footnote 1), pp. 28, 29.

[10] The basic distinction between the first Edison patent, and the Bell and Tainter patent
of 1886 was the method of recording. Edison's method was to indent the sound waves on a piece
of tin-foil (wax was included as a recording material in his English patent); the Bell and
Tainter improvement called for cutting or "engraving" the sound waves into a wax record, with
a sharp recording stylus.

The strength of Bell and Tainter patent is indicated by the following excerpt from a letter
written by a Washington patent attorney, S. T. Cameron, who was a member of the law firm which
carried on litigation for the American Graphophone Co. The letter is dated December 8, 1914,
and is addressed to George C. Maynard, Curator of Mechanical Technology, U. S. National Museum:
"Subsequent to the issuance of the Bell and Tainter patent No. 341214, Edison announced that
he would shortly produce his 'new phonograph' which, when it appeared, was in fact nothing
but the Bell and Tainter record set forth in their patent 341214, being a record cut or engraved
in wax or wax-like material, although Edison always insisted on calling this record an 'indented'
record, doubtless because his original tin-foil record was an 'indented' record. Edison was
compelled to acknowledge that his 'new phonograph' was an infringement of the Bell and Tainter
patent 341214, and took out a license under the Bell and Tainter patent and made his records
under that patent as the result of that license."

