The Patriarch looked once at the speaker; then, delivering the chalice, signed the servers
to follow him; next instant, he stood in the open gateway, and with raised hands, cried out:

"Holy things to the holy!"

Repeating the ancient formula, he stepped aside to allow the cup-bearers to pass into the nave;
but they stood still, for there came a skurry of sound not possible of location, so did it
at the same moment seem to be from the dome descending and from the floor going up to the dome.
It was the multitude rising from their knees.

Now the Patriarch, though feeble in body, was stout of soul and ready-witted, as they usually
are whose lives pass in combat and fierce debate. Regarding the risen audience calmly, he betook
himself to his chair, and spoke to his assistants, who brought a plain chasuble, and put it
on him, covering the golden stole completely. When he again appeared in the spaceway of the
open gate, as he presently did, every cleric and every layman in the church to whom he was
visible understood he took the interruption as a sacrilege from which he sought by the change
of attire to save himself.

"Whoso disturbs the Sacrament in celebration has need of cause for that he does; for great
is his offence whatever the cause."

The Patriarch's look and manner were void of provocation, except as one, himself rudely disposed,
might discover it in the humility somewhat too studied.

"I heard my Brother--it would be an untruth to say I did not--and to go acquit of deceit, I
will answer him, God helping me. Let me say first, while we have some differences in our faith,
there are many things about which we are agreed, the things in agreement outnumbering those
in difference; and of them not the least is the Real Presence once the Sacraments are consecrated.
Take heed, O Brethren! Do any of you deny the Real Presence in the bread and wine of communion?"

No man made answer.

"It is as I said--not one. Look you, then, if I or you--if any of us be tempted to anger or
passionate speech, and this house, long dedicated to the worship of God, and its traditions
of holiness too numerous for memory, and therefore of record only in the Books of Heaven, fail
the restraints due them, lo, Christ is here--Christ in Real Presence--Christ our Lord in Body
and Blood!"

The old man stood aside, pointing to the vessel under the baldacchino, and there were sighs
and sobs. Some shouted: "Blessed be the Son of God!"

The sensation over, the Patriarch continued:

"O my Brother, take thou answer now. The bread is leavened. Is it therefore less grace-giving?"

"No, no!" But the response was drowned by an affirmative yell so strong there could be no doubt
of the majority. The minority, however, was obstinate, and ere long the groups disrupted, and
it seemed every man became a disputant. Now nothing serves anger like vain striving to be heard.
The Patriarch in deep concern stood in the gateway, exclaiming: "Have a care, O Brethren, have
a care! For now is Christ here!" And as the babble kept increasing, the Emperor came to him.

"They are like to carry it to blows, O Serenity."

"Fear not, my son, God is here, and He is separating the wheat from the chaff."

"But the blood shed will be on my conscience, and the Panagia"--

The aged Prelate was inflexible. "Nay, nay, not yet! They are Greeks. Let them have it out.
The day is young; and how often is shame the miraculous parent of repentance."

Constantine returned to his throne, and remained there standing.

Meantime the tumult went on until, with shouting and gesticulating, and running about, it seemed
the assemblage was getting mad with drink. Whether the contention was of one or many things,
who may say? Well as could be ascertained, one party, taking cue from the Patriarch, denounced
the interruption of the most sacred rite; the other anathematized the attempt to impose leavened
bread upon orthodox communicants as a scheme of the devil and his arch-legate, the Bishop of
Rome. Men of the same opinions argued blindly with each other; while genuine opposition was
conducted with glaring eyes, swollen veins, clinched hands, and voices high up in the leger
lines of hate and defiance. The timorous and disinclined were caught and held forcibly. In
a word, the scene was purely Byzantine, incredible of any other people.

The excitement afterwhile extended to the galleries, where, but that the women were almost
universally of the Greek faction, the same passion would have prevailed; as it was, the gentle
creatures screamed azymite, azymite in amazing disregard of the proprieties. The Princess Irene,
at first pained and mortified, kept her seat until appearances became threatening; then she
scanned the vast pit long and anxiously; finally her wandering eyes fell upon the tall figure
of Sergius drawn out of the mass, but facing it from a position near the gate of the brazen
railing. Immediately she settled back in her chair.

To justify the emotion now possessing her, the reader must return to the day the monk first
presented himself at her palace near Therapia. He must read again the confession, extorted
from her by the second perusal of Father Hilarion's letter, and be reminded of her education
in the venerated Father's religious ideas, by which her whole soul was adherent to his conceptions
of the Primitive Church of the Apostles. Nor less must the reader suffer himself to be reminded
of the consequences to her--of the judgment of heresy upon her by both Latins and Greeks--of
her disposition to protest against the very madness now enacting before her--of her longing,
Oh, that I were a man!--of the fantasy that Heaven had sent Sergius to her with the voice,
learning, zeal, courage, and passion of truth to enable her to challenge a hearing anywhere-of
the persistence with which she had since cared for and defended him, and watched him in his
studies, and shared them with him. Nor must the later incident, the giving him a copy of the
creed she had formulated--the Creed of Nine Words--be omitted in the consideration.

Now indeed the reader can comprehend the Princess, and the emotions with which she beheld the
scene at her feet. The Patriarch's dramatic warning of the Real Presence found in her a ready
second; for keeping strictly to Father Hilarion's distinction between a right Creed and a form
or ceremony for pious observance, the former essential to salvation, the latter merely helpful
to continence in the Creed, it was with her as if Christ in glorified person stood there under
the baldacchino. What wonder if, from indignation at the madness of the assembly, the insensate
howling, the blasphemous rage, she passed to exaltation of spirit, and fancied the time good
for a reproclamation of the Primitive Church?

Suddenly a sharper, fiercer explosion of rage arose from the floor, and a rush ensued--the
factions had come to blows!

Then the Patriarch yielded, and at a sign from the Emperor the choir sang the Sanctus anew.
High and long sustained, the sublime anthem rolled above the battle and its brutalism. The
thousands heard it, and halting, faced toward the apse, wondering what could be coming. It
even reached into the vortex of combat, and turned all the unengaged there into peacemakers.

Another surprise still more effective succeeded. Boys with lighted candles, followed by bearers
of smoking censers, bareheaded and in white, marched slowly from behind the altar toward the
open gate, outside which they parted right and left, and stopped fronting the multitude. A
broad banner hung to a cross-stick of gold, heavy with fringing of gold, the top of the staff
overhung with fresh flowers in wreaths and garlands, the lower corners stayed by many streaming
white ribbons in the hands of as many holy men in white woollen chasubles extending to the
bare feet, appeared from the same retreat, carried by two brethren known to every one as janitors
of the sacred chapel on the hill-front of Blacherne.

The Emperor, the Patriarch, the servers of the chalices, the whole body of assistants inside
the railing, fell upon their knees while the banner was borne through the gate, and planted
on the floor there. Its face was frayed and dim with age, yet the figure of the woman upon
it was plain to sight, except as the faint gray smoke from the censers veiled it in a vanishing
cloud.

Then there was an outburst of many voices:

"The Panagia! The Panagia!"

The feeling this time was reactionary.

"O Blessed Madonna!--Guardian of Constantinople!--Mother of God!--Christ is here!--Hosannas
to the Son and to the Immaculate Mother!" With these, and other like exclamations, the mass
precipitated itself forward, and, crowding near the historic symbol, flung themselves on the
floor before it, grovelling and contrite, if not conquered.

The movement of the candle and censer bearers outside the gate forced Sergius nearer it; so
when the Panagia was brought to a rest, he, being much taller than its guardians, became an
object of general observation, and wishing to escape it if possible, he took off his high hat;
whereupon his hair, parted in the middle, dropped down his neck and back fair and shining in
the down-beating light.

This drew attention the more. Did any of the prostrate raise their eyes to the Madonna on the
banner, they must needs turn to him next; and presently the superstitious souls, in the mood
for miracles, began whispering to each other:

"See--it is the Son--it is the Lord himself!"

And of a truth the likeness was startling; although in saying this, the reader must remember
the difference heretofore remarked between the Greek and Latin ideals.

About that time Sergius looked up to the Princess, whose face shone out of the shadows of the
gallery with a positive radiance, and he was electrified seeing her rise from her chair, and
wave a hand to him.

He understood her. The hour long talked of, long prepared for, was at last come--the hour of
speech. The blood surged to his heart, leaving him pallid as a dead man. He stooped lower,
covered his eyes with his hands, and prayed the wordless prayer of one who hastily commits
himself to God; and in the darkness behind his hands there was an illumination, and in the
midst of it a sentence in letters each a lambent flame--the Creed of Father Hilarion and the
Princess Irene--our Lord's Creed:

"I BELIEVE IN GOD, AND JESUS CHRIST, HIS SON."

This was his theme!

With no thought of self, no consciousness but of duty to be done, trusting in God, he stood
up, pushed gently through the kneeling boys and guardians of the Panagia, and took position
where all eyes could look at the Blessed Mother slightly above him, and then to himself, in
such seeming the very Son. It might have been awe, it might have been astonishment, it might
have been presentiment; at all events, the moaning, sobbing, praying, tossing of arms, beating
of breasts, with the other outward signs of remorse, grief and contrition grotesque and pitiful
alike subsided, and the Church, apse, nave and gallery, grew silent--as if a wave had rushed
in, and washed the life out of it.

"Men and brethren," he began, "I know not whence this courage to do comes, unless it be from
Heaven, nor at whose word I speak, if not that Jesus of Nazareth, worker of miracles which
God did by him anciently, yet now here in Real Presence of Body and Blood, hearing what we
say, seeing what we do."

"Art thou not He?" asked a hermit, half risen in front of him, his wrap of undressed goatskin
fallen away from his naked shoulders.

"No; his servant only am I, even as thou art--his servant who would not have forsaken him at
Gethsemane, who would have given him drink on the Cross, who would have watched at the door
of his tomb until laid to sleep by the Delivering Angel--his servant not afraid of Death, which,
being also his servant, will not pass me by for the work I now do, if the work be not by his word."

The voice in this delivery was tremulous, and the manner so humble as to take from the answer
every trace of boastfulness. His face, when he raised it, and looked out over the audience,
was beautiful. The spectacle offered him in return was thousands of people on their knees,
gazing at him undetermined whether to resent an intrusion or welcome a messenger with glad tidings.

"Men and brethren," he continued, more firmly, casting the old Scriptural address to the farthest
auditor, "now are you in the anguish of remorse; but who told you that you had offended to
such a degree? See you not the Spirit, sometimes called the Comforter, in you? Be at ease,
for unto us are repentance and pardon. There were who beat our dear Lord, and spit upon him,
and tore his beard; who laid him on a cross, and nailed him to it with nails in his hands and
feet; one wounded him in the side with a spear; yet what did he, the Holy One and the Just?
Oh! if he forgave them glorying in their offences, will he be less merciful to us repentant?"

Raising his head a little higher, the preacher proceeded, with increased assurance:

"Let me speak freely unto you; for how can a man repent wholly, if the cause of his sin be
not laid bare that he may see and hate it?

"Now before our dear Lord departed out of the world, he left sayings, simple even to children,
instructing such as would be saved unto everlasting life what they must do to be saved. Again:
'Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life.' Behold the
Second Article--belief in Christ.

"Now, for that the Son, and he who sent him, are at least in purpose one, belief in either
of them is declared sufficient; nevertheless it may be simpler, if not safer, for us to cast
the Two Articles together in a single phrase; we have then a Creed which we may affirm was
made and left behind him by our Lord himself:

I BELIEVE IN GOD, AND JESUS CHRIST, HIS SON.

And when we sound it, lo! two conditions in all; and he who embraces them, more is not required
of him; he is already passed from death unto life--everlasting life.

"This, brethren, is the citadel of our Christian faith; wherefore, to strengthen it. What was
the mission of Jesus Christ our Lord to the world? Hear every one! What was the mission of
our Lord Jesus Christ? Why was he sent of God, and born into the world? Hearing the question,
take heed of the answer: He was sent of God for the salvation of men. You have ears, hear;
minds, think; nor shall one of you, the richest in understanding of the Scriptures, in walk
nearest the Sinless Example, ever find another mission for him which is not an arraignment
of the love of his Father.

"Then, if it be true, as we all say, not one denying it, that our Lord brought to his mission
the perfected wisdom of his Father, how could he have departed from the world leaving the way
of salvation unmarked and unlighted? Or, sent expressly to show us the way, himself the appointed
guide, what welcome can we suppose he would have had from his Father in Heaven, if he had given
the duty over to the angels? Or, knowing the deceitfulness of the human heart, and its weakness
and liability to temptation, whence the necessity for his coming to us, what if he had given
the duty over to men, so much lower than the angels, and then gone away? Rather than such a
thought of him, let us believe, if the way had been along the land, he would have planted it
with inscribed hills; if over the seas, he would have sown the seas with pillars of direction
above the waves; if through the air, he would have made it a path effulgent with suns numerous
as the stars. 'I am the Way,' he said--meaning the way lies through me; and you may come to
me in the place I go to prepare for you, if only you believe in God and me. Men and brethren,
our Lord was true to his mission, and wise in the wisdom of his Father."

At this the hermit in front of the preacher, uttering a shill cry, spread his arms abroad,
and quivered from head to foot. Many of those near sprang forward to catch him.

"No, leave him alone," cried Sergius, "leave him alone. The cross he took was heavy of itself;
but upon the cross you heaped conditions without sanction, making a burden of which he was
like to die. At last he sees how easy it is to go to his Master; that he has only to believe
in God and the Master. Leave him with the truth; it was sent to save, not to kill."

The excitement over, Sergius resumed:

"I come now, brethren, to the cause of your affliction. I will show it to you; that is to say,
I will show you why you are divided amongst yourselves, and resort to cruelty one unto another;
as if murder would help either side of the quarrel. I will show your disputes do not come from
anything said or done by our Lord, whose almost last prayer was that all who believed in him
might be made perfect in one.

"It is well known to you that our Lord did not found a Church during his life on earth, but
gave authority for it to his Apostles. 32, 34, 35.] But in time this community became known
as the Church; and there was nothing of it except our Lord's Creed, in definition of the Faith,
and two ordinances for the Church--Baptism for the remission of sins, that the baptized might
receive the Comforter, and the Sacraments, that believers, often as they partook of the Body
and Blood of Christ, might be reminded of him.

"Lo, now! In the space of three generations this Church, based upon this simple Creed, became
a power from Alexandria to Lodinum; and though kings banded to tread it out; though day and
night the smell of the blood of the righteous spilt by them was an offence to God; though there
was no ingenuity more amongst men except to devise methods for the torture of the steadfast--still
the Church grew; and if you dig deep enough for the reasons of its triumphant resistance, these
are they: there was Divine Life in the Creed, and the Community was perfect in one; insomuch
that the brethren quarrelled not among themselves; neither was there jealousy, envy or rivalry
among them; neither did they dispute about immaterial things, such as which was the right mode
of baptism, or whether the bread should be leavened or unleavened, or whence the Holy Ghost
proceeded, whether from the Father or from the Father and Son together; neither did the elders
preach for a price, nor forsake a poor flock for a rich one that their salaries might be increased,
nor engage in building costly tabernacles for the sweets of vanity in tall spires; neither
did any study the Scriptures seeking a text, or a form, or an observance, on which to go out
and draw from the life of the old Community that they might set up a new one; and in their
houses of God there were never places for the men and yet other separate places for the women
of the congregation; neither did a supplicant for the mercy of God look first at the garments
of the neighbor next him lest the mercy might lose a virtue because of a patch or a tatter.
The Creed was too plain for quibble or dispute; and there was no ambition in the Church except
who should best glorify Christ by living most obedient to his commands. Thence came the perfection
of unity in faith and works; and all went well with the Primitive Church of the Apostles; and
the Creed was like unto the white horse seen by the seer of the final visions, and the Church
was like him who sat upon the horse, with a bow in his hand, unto whom a crown was given; and
he went forth conquering and to conquer."

Here the audience was stirred uncontrollably; many fell forward upon their faces; others wept,
and the nave resounded with rejoicing. In one quarter alone there was a hasty drawing together
of men with frowning brows, and that was where the gonfalon of the Brotherhood of the St. James'
was planted. The Hegumen, in the midst of the group, talked excitedly, though in a low tone.

"I will not ask, brethren," Sergius said, in continuance, "if this account of the Primitive
Church be true; you all do know it true; yet I will ask if one of you holds that the offending
of which you would repent--the anger, and bitter words, and the blows--was moved by anything
in our Lord's Creed, let him arise, before the Presence is withdrawn, and say that he thinks.
These, lending their ears, will hear him, and so will God. What, will not one arise?

"It is not necessary that I remind you to what your silence commits you. Rather suffer me to
ask next, which of you will arise and declare, our Lord his witness, that the Church of his
present adherence is the same Church the Apostles founded? You have minds, think; tongues, speak."

There was not so much as a rustle on the floor.

"It was well, brethren, that you kept silence; for, if one had said his Church was the same
Church the Apostles founded, how could he have absolved himself of the fact that there are
nowhere two parties each claiming to be of the only true Church? Or did he assert both claimants
to be of the same Church, and it the only true one, then why the refusal to partake of the
Sacraments? Why a division amongst them at all? Have you not heard the aforetime saying, 'Every
kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation'?

"Men and brethren, let no man go hence thinking his Church, whichever it be, is the Church
of the Apostles. If he look for the community which was the law of the old brotherhood, his
search will be vain. If he look for the unity, offspring of our Lord's last prayer, lo! jealousies,
hates, revilements, blows instead. No, your Creed is of men, not Christ, and the semblance
of Christ in it is a delusion and a snare." At this the gonfalon of the St. James' was suddenly
lifted up, and borne forward to within a few feet of the gate, and the Hegumen, standing in
front of it, cried out:

"Serenity, the preacher is a heretic! I denounce"--

He could get no further; the multitude sprang to foot howling. The Princess Irene, and the
women in the galleries, also arose, she pale and trembling. Peril to Sergius had not occurred
to her when she gave him the signal to speak. The calmness and resignation with which he looked
at his accuser reminded her of his Master before Pilate, and taking seat again, she prayed
for him, and the cause he was pleading.

At length, the Patriarch, waving his hand, said:

"Brethren, it may be Sergius, to whom we have been listening, has his impulse of speech from
the Spirit, even as he has declared. Let us be patient and hear him."

Turning to Sergius, he bade him proceed.

"The three hundred Bishops and Presbyters from whom you have your Creeds, [Footnote: Encyclopedia
Brit., VI. 560.] O men and brethren"--so the preacher continued--"took the Two Articles from
our Lord's Creed, and then they added others. Thus, which of you can find a text of our Lord
treating of his procession from the substance of God? Again, in what passage has our Lord required
belief in the personage of the Holy Ghost as an article of faith essential to salvation? [Footnote:
Four Creeds are at present used in the Roman Catholic Church; viz., the Apostles' Creed, the
Nicene, the Athanasian, that of Pius IV--ADD. and AR., Catholic Dictionary, 232.] 'I am the
Way,' said our Lord. 'No,' say the three hundred, 'we are the way; and would you be saved,
you must believe in us not less than in God and his Son.'"

The auditors a moment before so fierce, even the Hegumen, gazed at the preacher in a kind of
awe; and there was no lessening of effect when his manner underwent a change, his head slightly
drooping and his voice plaintive.

"The Spirit by whose support and urgency I have dared address you, brethren, admonishes me
that my task is nearly finished."

He took hold of the corner of the Panagia; so all in view were more than ever impressed with
his likeness to their ideal of the Blessed Master.

"The urgency seemed to me on account of your offence to the Real Presence so graciously in
our midst; for truly when we are in the depths of penitence it is our nature to listen more
kindly to what is imparted for our good; wherefore, as you have minds, I beg you to think.
If our Lord did indeed leave a Creed containing the all in all for our salvation, what meant
he if not that it should stand in saving purity until he came again in the glory of his going?
And if he so intended, and yet uninspired men have added other Articles to the simple faith
he asked of us, making it so much the harder for us to go to him in the place he has prepared
for us, are they not usurpers? And are not the Articles which they have imposed to be passed
by us as stratagems dangerous to our souls?

"Again. The excellence of our Lord's Creed by which it may be always known when in question,
its wisdom superior to the devices of men, is that it permits us to differ about matters outside
of the faith without weakening our relations to the Blessed Master or imperilling our lot in
his promises. Such matters, for example, as works, which are but evidences of faith and forms
of worship, and the administration of the two ordinances of the Church, and God and his origin,
and whether Heaven be here or there, or like unto this or that. For truly our Lord knew us,
and that it was our nature to deal in subtleties and speculate of things not intended we should
know during this life; the thought of our minds being restless and always running, like the
waters of a river on their way to the sea.

"Again, brethren. If the Church of the Apostles brought peace to its members, so that they
dwelt together, no one of them lacking or in need, do not your experiences of to-day teach
you wherein your Churches, being those built upon the Creed of the three hundred Bishops, are
unlike it? Moreover, see you not if now you have several Churches, some amongst you, the carping
and ambitious, will go out and in turn set up new Confessions of Faith, and at length so fill
the earth with rival Churches that religion will become a burden to the poor and a byword with
fools who delight in saying there is no God? In a village, how much better one House of God,
with one elder for its service, and always open, than five or ten, each with a preacher for
a price, and closed from Sabbath to Sabbath? For that there must be discipline to keep the
faithful together, and to carry on the holy war against sin and its strongholds and captains,
how much better one Church in the strength of unity than a hundred diversely named and divided
against themselves?

"The Revelator, even that John who while in the Spirit was bidden. Forasmuch as I also know
what penitential life is, and how your minds engage themselves in the solitude of your cells,
I give you whereof to think. Men and brethren, peace unto you all!"

The hermit knelt to the preacher, and kissed his hand, sobbing the while; the auditors stared
at each other doubtfully; but the Hegumen's time was come. Advancing to the gate, he said:

"This man, O Serenity, is ours by right of fraternity. In thy hearing he hath defamed the Creed
which is the rock the Fathers chose for the foundation of our most holy Church. He hath even
essayed to make a Creed of his own, and present it for our acceptance--thy acceptance, O Serenity,
and that of His Majesty, the only Christian Emperor, as well as ours. And for those things,
and because never before in the history of our ancient and most notable Brotherhood hath there
been an instance of heresy so much as in thought, we demand the custody of this apostate for
trial and judgment. Give him to us to do with."

The Patriarch clasped his hands, and, shaking like a man struck with palsy, turned his eyes
upward as if asking counsel of Heaven. His doubt and hesitation were obvious; and neighbor
heard his neighbor's heart beat; so did silence once more possess itself of the great auditorium.
The Princess Irene arose white with fear, and strove to catch the Emperor's attention; but
he, too, was in the bonds waiting on the Patriarch.

Then from his place behind the Hegumen, Sergius spoke:

"Let not your heart be troubled, O Serenity. Give me to my Brotherhood. If I am wrong, I deserve
to die; but if I have spoken as the Spirit directed me, God is powerful to save. I am not afraid
of the trial."

The Patriarch gazed at him, his withered cheeks glistening with tears; still he hesitated.

"Suffer me, O Serenity!"--thus Sergius again--"I would that thy conscience may never be disquieted
on my account; and now I ask not that thou give me to my Brotherhood--I will go with them freely
and of my own accord." Speaking then to the Hegumen, he said: "No more, I pray. See, I am ready
to be taken as thou wilt."

The Hegumen gave him in charge of the brethren; and at his signal, the gonfalon was raised
and carried through the concourse, and out of one of the doors, followed closely by the Brotherhood.

At the moment of starting, Sergius lifted his hands, and shouted so as to be heard above the
confusion: "Bear witness, O Serenity--and thou, O Emperor! That no man may judge me an apostate,
hear my confession: I believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son."

Many of those present remained and partook of the Sacraments; far the greater number hurried
away, and it was not long until the house was vacated.

CHAPTER IX

COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED

Extract:

"God is God, and Mahomet is his Prophet! May they keep my Lord in health, and help him to all
his heart's desires! ... It is now three days since my eyes were gladdened by the presence
of the Princess Irene; yet I have been duteously regular in my calls at her house. To my inquiries,
her domestic has returned the same answer: 'The Princess is in her chapel praying. She is sadly
disturbed in mind, and excuses herself to every one.' Knowing this information will excite
my Lord's apprehension, I beg him to accept the explanation of her ailments which I think most
probable.... My Lord will gratify me by graciously referring to the account of the special
meeting in Sancta Sophia which I had the honor to forward the evening of the day of its occurrence.
The conjecture there advanced that the celebration of the Sacrament in highest form was a stratagem
of the Patriarch's looking to a reconciliation of the factions, has been confirmed; and more--it
has proved a failure. Its effect has inflamed the fanaticism of the Greek party as never before.
Notaras, moved doubtless by Gennadius, induced them to suspect His Majesty and the Patriarch
of conniving at the wonderful sermon of the monk Sergius; and, as the best rebuke in their
power, the Brotherhood of the St. James' erected a Tribunal of Judgment in their monastery
last night, and placed the preacher on trial. He defended himself, and drove them to admit
his points; that their Church is not the Primitive Church of the Apostles, and that their Creed
is an unwarranted enlargement of the two Articles of Faith left by Jesus Christ for the salvation
of the world. Yet they pronounced him an apostate and a heretic of incendiary purpose, and
condemned him to the old lion in the Cynegion, Tamerlane, famous these many years as a man-eater....
My Lord should also know of the rumor in the city which attributes the Creed of Nine Words--'I
believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son'--to the Princess Irene; and her action would seem
to justify the story. Directly the meeting in Sancta Sophia was over, she hastened to the Palace,
and entreated His Majesty to save the monk from his brethren. My Lord may well think the Emperor
disposed to grant her prayer; his feeling for her is warmer than friendship. The gossips say
he at one time proposed marriage to her. At all events, being a tender-hearted man--too tender
indeed for his high position--it is easy imagining how such unparalleled beauty in tearful
distress must have moved him. Unhappily the political situation holds him as in a vice. The
Church is almost solidly against him; while of the Brotherhoods this one of the St. James'
has been his only stanch adherent. What shall the poor man do? If he saves the preacher, he
is himself lost. It appears now she has been brought to understand he cannot interfere. Thrown
thus upon the mercy of Heaven, she has buried herself in her oratory. Oh, the full Moon of
full Moons! And alas! that she should ever be overcast by a cloud, though it be not heavier
than the just-risen morning mist. My Lord--or Allah must come quickly!

       *       *       *       *       *

"O my Lord! In duty again and always!... Ali did not come yesterday. I suppose the high winds
were too unfriendly. So the despatch of that date remained on my hands; and I now open it,
and include a supplement.... This morning as usual I rode to the Princess' door. The servant
gave me the same report--his mistress was not receiving. It befalls therefore that my Lord
must take refuge in his work or in dreams of her--and may I lay a suggestion at his feet, I
advise the latter, for truly, if the world is a garden, she is its Queen of Roses.... For the
sake of the love my Lord bears the Princess, and the love I bear my Lord, I did not sleep last
night, being haunted with thinking how I could be of service to her. What is the use of strength
and skill in arms if I cannot turn them to account in her behalf as my Lord would have me?...
On my way to the Princess', I was told that the monk, who is the occasion of her sorrow, his
sentence being on her conscience, is to be turned in with the lion to-morrow. As I rode away
from her house in desperate strait, not having it in power to tell my Lord anything of her,
it occurred to me to go see the Cynegion, where the judgment is to be publicly executed. What
if the Most Merciful should offer me an opportunity to do the unhappy Princess something helpful?
If I shrank from the lion, when killing it would save her a grief, my Lord would never forgive
me ... . Here is a description of the Cynegion: The northwest wall of the city drops from the
height of Blacherne into a valley next the harbor or Golden Horn, near which it meets the wall
coming from the east. Right in the angle formed by the intersection of the walls there is a
gate, low, very strong, and always closely guarded. Passing the gate, I found myself in an
enclosed field, the city wall on the east, wooded hills south, and the harbor north. How far
the enclosure extends up the shore of the harbor, I cannot say exactly--possibly a half or
three quarters of a mile. The surface is level and grassy. Roads wind in and out of clumps
of selected shrubbery, with here and there an oak tree. Kiosk-looking houses, generally red
painted, are frequent, some with roofs, some without. Upon examination I discovered the houses
were for the keeping of animals and birds. In one there was an exhibition of fish and reptiles.
But much the largest structure, called the Gallery, is situated nearly in the centre of the
enclosure; and it astonished me with an interior in general arrangement like a Greek theatre,
except it is entirely circular and without a stage division. There is an arena, like a sanded
floor, apparently fifty paces in diameter, bounded by a brick wall eighteen or twenty feet
in height, and from the top of the wall seats rise one above another for the accommodation
of common people; while for the Emperor I noticed a covered stand over on the eastern side.
The wall of the arena is broken at regular intervals by doors heavily barred, leading into
chambers anciently dens for ferocious animals, but at present prisons for criminals of desperate
character. There are also a number of gates, one under the grand stand, the others forming
northern, southern and eastern entrances. From this, I am sure my Lord can, if he cares to,
draught the Cynegion, literally the Menagerie, comprehending the whole enclosure, and the arena
in the middle of it, where the monk will to-morrow expiate his heresy. Formerly combats in
the nature of wagers of battle were appointed for the place, and beasts were pitted against
each other; but now the only bloody amusement permitted in it is when a criminal or an offender
against God is given to the lion. On such occasions, they tell me, the open seats and grand
stands are crowded to their utmost capacities.... If the description is tedious, I hope my
Lord's pardon, for besides wishing to give him an idea of the scene of the execution to-morrow,
I thought to serve him in the day he is looking forward to with so much interest, when the
locality will have to be considered with a view to military approach. In furtherance of the
latter object, I beg to put my Lord in possession of the accompanying diagram of the Cynegion,
observing particularly its relation to the city; by attaching it to the drawings heretofore
sent him, he will be enabled to make a complete map of the country adjacent to the landward
wall.... Ali has just come in. As I supposed, he was detained by the high winds. His mullets
are perfection. With them he brings a young sword-fish yet alive. I look at the mess, and grieve
that I cannot send a portion to my Lord for his breakfast. However, a few days now, and he
will come to his own; the sea with its fish, and the land and all that belongs to it. The child
of destiny can afford to wait."

CHAPTER X

SERGIUS TO THE LION

About ten o'clock the day after the date of Count Corti's last despatch--ten of the morning--a
woman appeared on the landing in front of Port St. Peter, and applied to a boatman for passage
to the Cynegion.

She was thickly veiled, and wore an every-day overcloak of brown stuff closely buttoned from
her throat down. Her hands were gloved, and her feet coarsely shod. In a word, her appearance
was that of a female of the middle class, poor but respectable.

The landing was thronged at the time. It seemed everybody wanted to get to the menagerie at
once. Boatmen were not lacking. Their craft, of all known models, lay in solid block yards
out, waiting turns to get in; and while they waited, the lusty, half-naked fellows flirted
their oars, quarrelled with each other in good nature, Greek-like, and yelled volleys at the
slow bargain makers whose turns had arrived.

Twice the woman asked if she could have a seat.

"How many of you are there?" she was asked in reply.

"I am alone."

"You want the boat alone?"

"Yes."

"Well, that can't be. I have seats for several--and wife and four babies at home told me to
make the most I could out of them. It has been some time since one has tried to look old Tamerlane
in the eye, thinking to scare him out of his dinner. The game used to be common; it's not so now."

"But I will pay you for all the seats."

"Full five?"

"Yes."

"In advance?"

"Yes."

"Jump in, then--and get out your money--fifty-five noumias--while I push through these howling
water-dogs."

By the time the boat was clear of the pack, truly enough the passenger was with the fare in hand.

"Look," she said, "here is a bezant."

At sight of the gold piece, the man's countenance darkened, and he stopped rowing.

"I can't change that. You might as well have no money at all."

"Friend," she returned, "row me swiftly to the first gate of the Cynegion, and the piece is yours."

"By my blessed patron! I'll make you think you are on a bird, and that these oars are wings.
Sit in the middle--that will do. Now!"

The fellow was stout, skilful, and in earnest. In a trice he was under headway, going at racing
speed. The boats in the harbor were moving in two currents, one up, the other down; and it
was noticeable those in the first were laden with passengers, those of the latter empty. Evidently
the interest was at the further end of the line, and the day a holiday to the two cities, Byzantium
and Galata. Yet of the attractions on the water and the shores, the woman took no heed; she
said never a word after the start; but sat with head bowed, and her face buried in her hands.
Occasionally, if the boatman had not been so intent on earning the gold piece, he might have
heard her sob. For some reason, the day was not a holiday to her.

"We are nearly there," he at length said.

Without lifting the veil, she glanced at a low wall on the left-hand shore, then at a landing,
shaky from age and neglect, in front of a gate in the wall; and seeing it densely blockaded,
she spoke:

"Please put me ashore here. I have no time to lose."

The bank was soft and steep.

"You cannot make it."

"I can if you will give me your oar for a step."

"I will."

In a few minutes she was on land. Pausing then to toss the gold piece to the boatman, she heard
his thanks, and started hastily for the gate. Within the Cynegion, she fell in with some persons
walking rapidly, and talking of the coming event as if it were a comedy.

"He is a Russian, you say?"

"Yes, and what is strange, he is the very man who got the Prince of India's negro"--

"The giant?"

"Yes--who got him to drown that fine young fellow Demedes."

"Where is the negro now?"

"In a cell here."

"Why didn't they give him to the lion?"

"Oh, he had a friend--the Princess Irene."

"What is to be done with him?"

"Afterwhile, when the affair of the cistern is forgotten, he will be given a purse, and set free."

"Pity! For what sport to have seen him in front of the old Tartar!"

"Yes, he's a fighter." In the midst of this conversation, the party came in sight of the central
building, externally a series of arches supporting a deep cornice handsomely balustraded, and
called the Gallery.

"Here we are!--But see the people on the top! I was afraid we would be too late. Let us hurry."

"Which gate?"

"The western--it's the nearest."

"Can't we get in under the grand stand?"

"No, it's guarded."

These loquacious persons turned off to make the western gate; but the woman in brown kept on,
and ere long was brought to the grand stand on the north. An arched tunnel, amply wide, ran
under it, with a gate at the further end admitting directly to the arena. A soldier of the
foreign legion held the mouth of the tunnel.

"Good friend," she began, in a low, beseeching tone, "is the heretic who is to suffer here yet?"

"He was brought out last night."

"Poor man! I am a friend of his"--her voice trembled--"may I see him?"

"My orders are to admit no one--and I do not know which cell he is in."

The supplicant, sobbing and wringing her hands, stood awhile silent. Then a roar, very deep
and hoarse, apparently from the arena, startled her and she trembled.

"Tamerlane!" said the soldier.

"O God!" she exclaimed. "Is the lion turned in already?"

"Not yet. He is in his den. They have not fed him for three days."

She stayed her agitation, and asked: "What are your orders?"

"Not to admit any one."

"To the cells?"

"The cells, and the arena also."

"Oh, I see! You can let me stand at the gate yonder?"

"Well--yes. But if you are the monk's friend, why do you want to see him die?"

She made no reply, but took from a pocket a bezant, and contrived to throw its yellow gleam
in the sentinel's eyes.

"Is the gate locked?"

"No, it is barred on this side."

"Does it open into the arena?"

"Yes."

"I do not ask you to violate your orders," she continued, calmly; "only let me go to the gate,
and see the man when he is brought out."

She offered him the money, and he took it, saying: "Very well. I can see no harm in that. Go."

The gate in question was open barred, and permitted a view of nearly the whole circular interior.
The spectacle presented was so startling she caught one of the bars for support. Throwing back
the veil, she looked, breathing sighs which were almost gasps. The arena was clear, and thickly
strewn with wet sand. There were the walls shutting it in, like a pit, and on top of them,
on the ascending seats back to the last one--was it a cloud she beheld? A second glance, and
she recognized the body of spectators, men, women and children, compacted against the sky.
How many of them there were! Thousands and thousands! She clasped her hands, and prayed.

Twelve o'clock was the hour for the expiation.

Waiting so wearily there at the gate--praying, sighing, weeping by turns--the woman was soon
forgotten by the sentinel. She had bought his pity. In his eyes she was only a lover of the
doomed monk. An hour passed thus. If the soldier's theory were correct, if she were indeed
a poor love-lorn creature come to steal a last look at the unfortunate, she eked small comfort
from her study of the cloud of humanity on the benches. Their jollity, their frequent laughter
and hand-clapping reached her in her retreat. "Merciful God!" she kept crying. "Are these beings
indeed in thy likeness?"

In a moment of wandering thought, she gave attention to the fastenings of the gate, and observed
the ends of the bar across it rested in double iron sockets on the side toward her; to pass
it, she had only to raise the bar clear of the socket and push.

Afterwhile the door of a chamber nearly opposite her opened, and a man stood in the aperture.
He was very tall, gigantic even; and apparently surprised by what he beheld, he stepped out
to look at the benches, whereat the light fell upon him and she saw he was black. His appearance
called for a roar of groans, and he retired, closing the door behind him. Then there was an
answering roar from a cell near by at her left. The occupants of the benches applauded long
and merrily, crying, "Tamerlane! Tamerlane!" The woman shrank back terrified.

A little later another man entered the arena, from the western gate. Going to the centre he
looked carefully around him; as if content with the inspection, he went next to a cell and
knocked. Two persons responded by coming out of the door; one an armed guardsman, the other
a monk. The latter wore a hat of clerical style, and a black gown dropping to his bare feet,
its sleeves of immoderate length completely muffling his hands. Instantly the concourse on
the benches arose. There was no shouting--one might have supposed them all suddenly seized
with shuddering sympathy. But directly a word began passing from mouth to mouth; at first,
it was scarcely more than a murmur; soon it was a byname on every tongue:

"The heretic! The heretic!"

The monk was Sergius.

His guard conducted him to the centre of the field, and, taking off his hat, left him there.
In going he let his gauntlet fall. Sergius picked it up, and gave it to him; then calm, resigned,
fearless, he turned to the east, rested his hands on his breast palm to palm, closed his eyes,
and raised his face. He may have had a hope of rescue in reserve; certain it is, they who saw
him, taller of his long gown, his hair on his shoulders and down his back, his head upturned,
the sunlight a radiant imprint on his forehead, and wanting only a nimbus to be the Christ
in apparition, ceased jeering him; it seemed to them that in a moment, without effort, he had
withdrawn his thoughts from this world, and surrendered himself. They could see his lips move;
but what they supposed his last prayer was only a quiet recitation: "I believe in God, and
Jesus Christ, his Son."

The guard withdrawn, three sharp mots of a trumpet rang out from the stand. A door at the left
of the tunnel gate was then slowly raised; whereupon a lion stalked out of the darkened depths,
and stopped on the edge of the den thus exposed, winking to accustom his eyes to the day-splendor.
He lingered there very leisurely, turning his ponderous head from right to left and up and
down, like a prisoner questioning if he were indeed at liberty. Having viewed the sky and the
benches, and filled his deep chest with ample draughts of fresh air, suddenly Tamerlane noticed
the monk. The head rose higher, the ears erected, and, snuffing like a hound, he fretted his
shaggy mane; his yellow eyes changed to coals alive, and he growled and lashed his sides with
his tail. A majestic figure was he now. "What is it?" he appeared asking himself. "Prey or
combat?" Still in a maze, he stepped out into the arena, and shrinking close to the sand, inched
forward creeping toward the object of his wonder.

The spectators had opportunity to measure him, and drink their fill of terror. The monk was
a goodly specimen of manhood, young, tall, strong; but a fig for his chances once this enemy
struck him or set its teeth in his flesh! An ox could not stand the momentum of that bulk of
bone and brawn. It were vain telling how many--not all of them women and children--furtively
studied the height of the wall enclosing the pit to make sure of their own safety upon the seats.

Sergius meantime remained in prayer and recitation; he was prepared for the attack, but as
a non-resistant; if indeed he thought of battle, he was not merely unarmed--the sleeves of
his gown deprived him of the use of his hands. From the man to the lion, from the lion to the
man, the multitude turned shivering, unable nevertheless to look away.

Presently the lion stopped, whined, and behaved uneasily. Was he afraid? Such was the appearance
when he began trotting around at the base of the wall, halting before the gates, and seeking
an escape. Under the urgency, whatever it was, from the trot he broke into a gallop, without
so much as a glance at the monk.

A murmur descended from the benches. It was the people recovering from their horror, and impatient.
Ere long they became positive in expression; in dread doubtless of losing the catastrophe of
the show, they yelled at the cowardly beast.

In the height of this tempest, the gate of the tunnel under the grand stand opened quickly,
and was as quickly shut. Death brings no deeper hush than fell upon the assemblage then. A
woman was crossing the sand toward the monk! Round sped the lion, forward she went! Two victims!
Well worth the monster's hunger through the three days to be so banqueted on the fourth!

There are no laws of behavior for such situations. Impulse and instinct rush in and take possession.
While the thousands held their breath, they were all quickened to know who the intruder was.

She was robed in white, was bareheaded and barefooted. The dress, the action, the seraphic
face were not infrequent on the water, and especially in the churches; recognition was instantaneous,
and through the eager crowded ranks the whisper flew:

"God o' Mercy! It is the Princess--the Princess Irene!"

Strong men covered their eyes, women fainted.

The grand stand had been given up to the St. James', and they and their intimates filled it
from the top seat to the bottom; and now directly the identity became assured, toward them,
or rather to the Hegumen conspicuous in their midst, innumerable arms were outstretched, seconding
the cry: "Save her! Save her! Let the lion be killed!"

Easier said than done. Crediting the Brotherhood with lingering sparks of humanity, the game
was beyond their interference. The brute was lord. Who dared go in and confront him?

About this time, the black man, of whom we have spoken, looked out of his cell again. To him
the pleading arms were turned. He saw the monk, the Princess, and the lion making its furious
circuit--saw them and retreated, but a moment after reappeared, attired in the savageries which
were his delight. In the waist-belt he had a short sword, and over his left shoulder a roll
like a fisherman's net. And now he did not retreat.

The Princess reached Sergius safely, and placing a hand on his arm, brought him back, as it
were, to life and the situation.

"Fly, little mother--by the way you came--fly!" he cried, in mighty anguish. "O God! it is
too late--too late."

Wringing his hands, he gave way to tears.

"No, I will not fly. Did I not bring you to this? Let death come to us both. Better the quick
work of the lion than the slow torture of conscience. I will not fly! We will die together.
I too believe in God and Jesus Christ his Son."

She reached up, and rested her hand upon his shoulder. The repetition of the Creed, and her
companionship restored his courage, and smiling, despite the tears on his cheeks, he said:

"Very well, little mother. The army of the martyrs will receive us, and the dear Lord is at
his mansion door to let us in."

The lion now ceased galloping. Stopping over in the west quarter of the field, he turned his
big burning eyes on the two thus resigning themselves, and crouching, put himself in motion
toward them; his mane all on end; his jaws agape, their white armature whiter of the crimson
tongue lolling adrip below the lips. He had given up escape, and, his curiosity sated, was
bent upon his prey. The charge of cowardice had been premature. The near thunder of his roaring
was exultant and awful.

There was great ease of heart to the people when Nilo--for he it was--taking position between
the devoted pair and their enemy, shook the net from his shoulder, and proceeded to give an
example of his practice with lions in the jungles of Kash-Cush.

Keeping the brute steadily eye to eye, he managed so that while retaining the leaden balls
tied to its disengaged corners one in each hand, the net was presently in an extended roll
on the ground before him. Leaning forward then, his hands bent inwardly knuckle to knuckle
at his breast, his right foot advanced, the left behind the right ready to carry him by a step
left aside, he waited the attack--to the beholders, a figure in shining ebony, giantesque in
proportions, Phidian in grace.

Tamerlane stopped. What new wonder was this? And while making the study, he settled flat on
the sand, and sunk his roaring into uneasy whines and growls.

By this time every one looking on understood Nilo's intent--that he meant to bide the lion's
leap, and catch and entangle him in the net. What nerve and nicety of calculation--what certainty
of eye--what knowledge of the savage nature dealt with--what mastery of self, limb and soul
were required for the feat!

Just at this crisis there was a tumult in the grand stand. Those who turned that way saw a
man in glistening armor pushing through the brethren there in most unceremonious sort. In haste
to reach the front, he stepped from bench to bench, knocking the gowned Churchmen right and
left as if they were but so many lay figures. On the edge of the wall, he tossed his sword
and shield into the arena, and next instant leaped after them. Before astonishment was spent,
before the dull of faculties could comprehend the intruder, before minds could be made up to
so much as yell, he had fitted the shield to his arm, snatched up the sword, and run to the
point of danger. There, with quick understanding of the negro's strategy, he took place behind
him, but in front of the Princess and the monk. His agility, cumbered though he was, his amazing
spirit, together with the thought that the fair woman had yet another champion over whom the
lion must go ere reaching her, wrought the whole multitude into ecstasy. They sprang upon the
benches, and their shouting was impossible of interpretation except as an indication of a complete
revulsion of feeling. In fact, many who but a little before had cheered the lion or cursed
him for cowardice now prayed aloud for his victims.

The noise was not without effect on the veteran Tamerlane. He surveyed the benches haughtily
once, then set forward again, intent on Nilo.

The movement, in its sinuous, flexile gliding, resembled somewhat a serpent's crawl. And now
he neither roared nor growled. The lolling tongue dragged the sand; the beating of the tail
was like pounding with a flail; the mane all erect trebly enlarged the head; and the eyes were
like live coals in a burning bush. The people hushed. Nilo stood firm; thunder could as easily
have diverted a statue; and behind him, not less steadfast and watchful, Count Corti kept guard.
Thirty feet away-- twenty-five--twenty--then the great beast stopped, collected himself, and
with an indescribable roar launched clear of the ground. Up, at the same instant, and forward
on divergent lines, went the leaden balls; the netting they dragged after them had the appearance
of yellow spray blown suddenly in the air. When the monster touched the sand again, he was
completely enveloped.

The struggle which ensued--the gnashing of teeth, the bellowing, the rolling and blind tossing
and pitching, the labor with the mighty limbs, the snapping of the net, the burrowing into
the sand, the further and more inextricable entanglement of the enraged brute may be left to
imagination. Almost before the spectators realized the altered condition, Nilo was stabbing
him with the short sword.

The well-directed steel at length accomplished the work, and the pride of the Cynegion lay
still in the bloody tangle--then the benches found voice.

Amidst the uproar Count Corti went to Nilo.

"Who art thou?" he asked, in admiration.

The King smiled, and signified his inability to hear or speak. Whereupon the Count led him
to the Princess.

"Take heart, fair saint," he said. "The lion is dead, and thou art safe."

She scarcely heard him.

He dropped upon his knee.

"The lion is dead, O Princess, and here is the hand which slew him--here thy rescuer."

She looked her gratitude to Nilo--speak she could not.

"And thou, too," the Count continued, to the monk, "must have thanks for him."

Sergius replied: "I give thee thanks, Nilo--and thou, noble Italian--I am only a little less
obliged to thee--thou wast ready with thy sword."

He paused, glanced at the grand stand, and went on: "It is plain to me, Count Corti, that thou
thinkest my trial happily ended. The beast is dead truly; but yonder are some not less thirsty
for blood. It is for them to say what I must further endure. I am still the heretic they adjudged
me. Do thou therefore banish me from thy generous mind; then thou canst give it entirely to
her who is most in need of it. Remove the Princess--find a chair for her, and leave me to God."

"What further can they do?" asked the Count. "Heaven hath decided the trial in thy favor. Have
they another lion?"

The propriety of the monk's suggestion was obvious; it was not becoming for the Princess to
remain in the public eye; besides, under reaction of spirit, she was suffering.

"Have they another lion?" the Count repeated.

Anxious as he was to assist the Princess, he was not less anxious, if there was further combat,
to take part in it. The Count was essentially a fighting man. The open door of Nilo's cell
speedily attracted his attention.

"Help me, sir monk. Yonder is a refuge for the Princess. Let us place her in safety. I will
return, and stay with thee. If the reverend Christians, thy brethren in the grand stand, are
not content, by Allah"--he checked himself--"their cruelty would turn the stomach of a Mohammedan."

A few minutes, and she was comfortably housed in the cell.

"Now, go to thy place; I will send for a chair, and rejoin thee."

At the tunnel gate, the Count was met by a number of the St. James', and he forgot his errand.

"We have come," said one of them to Sergius, "to renew thy arrest."

"Be it so," Sergius replied; "lead on."

But Count Corti strode forward.

"By whose authority is this arrest renewed?" he demanded.

"Our Hegumen hath so ordered."

"It shall not be--no, by the Mother of your Christ, it shall not be unless you bring me the
written word of His Majesty making it lawful."

"The Hegumen"--

"I have said it, and I carry a sword"--the Count struck the hilt of the weapon with his mailed
hand, so the clang was heard on the benches. "I have said it, and my sword says it. Go, tell
thy Hegumen."

Then Sergius spoke:

"I pray you interfere not. The Heavenly Father who saved me this once is powerful to save me
often."

"Have done, sir monk," the Count returned, with increasing earnestness. "Did I not hear thee
say the same in thy holy Sancta Sophia, in such wise that these deserved to cast themselves
at thy feet? Instead, lo! the lion there. And for the truth, which is the soul of the world
as God is its Maker--the Truth and the Maker being the same--it is not interest in thee alone
which moves me. She, thy patroness yonder, is my motive as well. There are who will say she
followed thee hither being thy lover; but thou knowest better, and so do I. She came bidden
by conscience, and except thou live, there will be no ease of conscience for her--never. Wherefore,
sir monk, hold thy peace. Thou shalt no more go hence of thine own will than these shall take
thee against it.... Return, ye men of blood--return to him who sent you, and tell him my sword
vouches my word, being so accustomed all these years I have been a man. Bring they the written
word of His Majesty, I will give way. Let them send to him."

The brethren stared at the Count. Had he not been willing to meet old Tamerlane with that same
sword? They turned about, and were near the tunnel gate going to report, when it was thrown
open with great force, and the Emperor Constantine appeared on horseback, the horse bloody
with spurring and necked with foam. Riding to the Count he drew rein.

"Sir Count, where is my kinswoman?"

Corti kissed his hand.

"She is safe, Your Majesty--she is in the cell yonder."

The Emperor's eye fell upon the carcass of the lion.

"Thou didst it, Count?"

"No--this man did it."

The Emperor gazed at Nilo, thus designated, and taking a golden chain of fine workmanship from
his neck, he threw it over the black King's. At the door of the cell, he dismounted; within,
he kissed the Princess on the forehead.

"A chair will be here directly."

"And Sergius?" she asked.

"The Brotherhood must forego their claim now. Heaven has signified its will."

He thereupon entered into explanation. The necessity upon him was sore and trying, else he
had never surrendered Sergius to the Brotherhood. He expected the Hegumen would subject him
to discipline--imprisonment or penance. He had even signed the order placing the lion at service,
supposing they meant merely a trial of the monk's constancy. Withal the proceeding was so offensive
he had refused to witness it. An officer came to the palace with intelligence which led him
to believe the worst was really intended. To stop it summarily, he had ordered a horse and
a guard. Another officer reported the Princess in the arena with Sergius and the lion. With
that His Majesty had come at speed. And he was grateful to God for the issue.

In a short time the sedan was brought, and the Princess borne to her house.

Summoning the Brotherhood from the grand stand, the Emperor forbade their pursuing Sergius
further; the punishment had already been too severe. The Hegumen protested. Constantine arose
in genuine majesty, and denouncing all clerical usurpations, he declared that for the future
he would be governed by his own judgment in whatever concerned the lives of his subjects and
the welfare of his empire. The declaration was heard by the people on the benches.

By his order, Sergius was conducted to Blacherne, and next day installed a janitor of the imperial
Chapel; thus ending his connection with the Brotherhood of the St. James'.

"Your Majesty," said Count Corti, at the conclusion of the scene in the arena, "I pray a favor."

Constantine, by this time apprised of the Count's gallantry, bade him speak.

"Give me the keeping of this negro."

"If you mean his release from prison, Sir Count, take him. He can have no more suitable guardian.
But it is to be remembered he came to the city with one calling himself the Prince of India,
and if at any time that mysterious person reappears, the man is to be given back to his master."

The Count regarded Nilo curiously--he was merely recalling the Prince.

"Your Majesty is most gracious. I accept the condition."

The captain of the guard, coming to the tunnel under the grand stand, was addressed by the
sentinel there.

"See--here are a dress, a pair of shoes, and a veil. I found them by the gate there."

"How came they there?"

"A woman asked me to let her stand by the gate, and see the heretic when they brought him out,
and I gave her permission. She wore these things."

"The Princess Irene!" exclaimed the officer. "Very well. Send them to me, and I will have her
pleasure taken concerning them."

The Cynegion speedily returned to its customary state. But the expiation remained in the public
mind a date to which all manner of events in city life was referred; none of them, however,
of such consequence as the loss to the Emperor of the allegiance of the St. James'. Thenceforth
the Brotherhoods were united against him.

BOOK VI

CONSTANTINE

CHAPTER I

THE SWORD OF SOLOMON

The current of our story takes us once more to the White Castle at the mouth of the Sweet Waters
of Asia.

It is the twenty-fifth of March, 1452. The weather, for some days cloudy and tending to the
tempestuous, changed at noon, permitting the sun to show himself in a field of spotless blue.
At the edge of the mountainous steep above Roumeli Hissar, the day-giver lingered in his going
down, as loath to leave the life concentrated in the famous narrows in front of the old Castle.

On the land, there was an army in waiting; therefore the city of tents and brushwood booths
extending from the shore back to the hills, and the smoke pervading the perspective in every
direction.

On the water, swinging to each other, crowding all the shallows of the delta of the little
river, reaching out into the sweep of the Bosphorus, boats open and boats roofed--scows, barges,
galleys oared and galleys with masts--ships--a vast conglomerate raft.

About the camp, and to and fro on the raft, men went and came, like ants in storing time. Two
things, besides the locality, identified them--their turbans, and the crescent and star in
the red field of the flags they displayed.

History, it would appear, takes pleasure in repetition. Full a thousand years before this,
a greater army had encamped on the banks of the same Sweet Waters. Then it was of Persians;
now it is of Turks; and curiously there are no soldiers to be seen, but only working men, while
the flotilla is composed of carrying vessels; here boats laden with stone; there boats with
lime; yonder boats piled high with timber.

At length the sun, drawing the last ravelling of light after it, disappeared. About that time,
the sea gate in front of the Palace of Julian down at Constantinople opened, and a boat passed
out into the Marmora. Five men plied the oars. Two sat near the stern. These latter were Count
Corti and Ali, son of Abed-din the Faithful.

Two hours prior, Ali, with a fresh catch of fish, entered the gate, and finding no purchaser
in the galley, pushed on to the landing, and thence to the Palace.

"O Emir," he said, when admitted to the Count, "the Light of the World, our Lord Mahommed is
arrived."

The intelligence seemed to strike the Count with a sudden ague.

"Where is he?" he asked, his voice hollow as from a closed helmet. Ere the other could answer,
he added a saving clause: "May the love of Allah be to him a staff of life!"

"He is at the White Castle with Mollahs, Pachas, and engineers a host.... What a way they were
in, rushing here and there, like squealing swine, and hunting quarters, if but a crib to lie
in and blow! Shintan take them, beards, boots, and turbans! So have they lived on fat things,
slept on divans of down under hangings of silk, breathed perfumed airs in crowded harems, Heaven
knows if now they are even fit to stop an arrow. They thought the old Castle of Bajazet-Ilderim
another Jehan-Numa. By the delights of Paradise, O Emir--ha, ha, ha!--it was good to see how
little the Light of the World cared for them! At the Castle, he took in with him for household
the ancient Gabour Ortachi-Khalil and a Prince of India, whom he calls his Messenger of the
Stars; the rest were left to shift for themselves till their tents arrive. Halting the Incomparables,
[Footnote: Janissaries.] out beyond Roumeli-Hissar, he summoned the Three Tails, [Footnote:
Pachas.] nearly dead from fatigue, having been in the saddle since morning, and rode off with
them fast as his Arab could gallop across the country, and down the long hill behind Therapia,
drawing rein at the gate before the Palace of the Princess Irene."

"The Palace of the Princess Irene," the Count repeated. "What did he there?"

"He dismounted, looked at the brass plate on the gate-post, went in, and asked if she were
at home. Being told she was yet in the city, he said: 'A message for her to be delivered to-night.
Here is a purse to pay for going. Tell her Aboo-Obeidah, the Singing Sheik'--only the Prophet
knows of such a Sheik--'has been here, bidden by Sultan Mahommed to see if her house had been
respected, and inquire if she has yet her health and happiness.' With that, he called for his
horse, and went through the garden and up to the top of the promontory; then he returned to
Hissar faster than he went to Therapia; and when, to take boat for the White Castle, he walked
down the height, two of the Three Tails had to be lifted from their saddles, so nearly dead
were they."

Here Ali stopped to laugh.

"Pardon me, O Emir," he resumed, "if I say last what I should have said first, it being the
marrow of the bone I bring you.... Before sitting to his pilaf, our Lord Mahommed sent me here.
'Thou knowest to get in and out of the unbelieving city,' he said. 'Go privily to the Emir
Mirza, and bid him come to me to-night.'"

"What now, Ali?"

"My Lord was too wise to tell me."

"It is a great honor, Ali. I shall get ready immediately."

When the night was deep enough to veil the departure, the Count seated himself in the fisher's
boat, a great cloak covering his armor. Half a mile below the Sweet Waters the party was halted.

"What is this, Ali?"

"The Lord Mahommed's galleys of war are down from the Black Sea. These are their outlyers."

At the side of one of the vessels, the Count showed the Sultan's signet, and there was no further
interruption.

A few words now with respect to Corti.

He had become a Christian. Next, the bewilderment into which the first sight of the Princess
Irene had thrown him instead of passing off had deepened into hopeless love.

And farther--Constantine, a genuine knight himself; in fact more knight than statesman; delighting
in arms, armor, hounds, horses, and martial exercises, including tournaments, hawking, and
hunting, found one abiding regret on his throne--he could have a favorite but never a comrade.
The denial only stimulated the desire, until finally he concluded to bring the Italian to Court
for observation and trial, his advancement to depend upon the fitness, tact, and capacity he
might develop.

One day an order was placed in the Count's hand, directing him to find quarters at Blacherne.
The Count saw the honor intended, and discerned that acceptance would place him in better position
to get information for Mahommed, but what would the advantage avail if he were hindered in
forwarding his budget promptly?

No, the mastership of the gate was of most importance; besides which the seclusion of the Julian
residence was so favorable to the part he was playing; literally he had no one there to make
him afraid.

Upon receipt of the order he called for his horse, and rode to Blacherne, where his argument
of the necessity of keeping the Moslem crew of his galley apart brought about a compromise.
His Majesty would require the Count's presence during the day, but permit him the nights at
Julian. He was also allowed to retain command of the gate.

A few months then found him in Constantine's confidence, the imperial favorite. Yet more surprising
as a coincidence, he actually became to the Emperor what he had been to Mahommed. He fenced
and jousted with him, instructed him in riding, trained him to sword and bow. Every day during
certain hours he had his new master's life at mercy. With a thrust of sword, stroke of battle-axe,
or flash of an arrow, it was in his power to rid Mahommed of an opponent concerning whom he
wrote: "O my Lord, I think you are his better, yet if ever you meet him in personal encounter,
have a care."

But the unexpected now happened to the Count. He came to have an affection for this second
lord which seriously interfered with his obligations to the first one. Its coming about was
simple. Association with the Greek forced a comparison with the Turk. The latter's passion
was a tide before which the better gifts of God to rulers--mercy, justice, discrimination,
recognition of truth, loyalty, services--were as willows in the sweep of a wave. Constantine,
on the other hand, was thoughtful, just, merciful, tender-hearted, indisposed to offend or
to fancy provocation intended. The difference between a man with and a man without conscience--between
a king all whose actuations are dominated by religion and a king void of both conscience and
religion--slowly but surely, we say, the difference became apparent to the Count, and had its
inevitable consequences.

Such was the Count's new footing in Blacherne.

The changes wrought in his feeling were forwarded more than he was aware by the standing accorded
him in the reception-room of the Princess Irene.

After the affair at the Cynegion he had the delicacy not to push himself upon the attention
of the noble lady. In preference he sent a servant every morning to inquire after her health.
Ere long he was the recipient of an invitation to come in person; after which his visits increased
in frequency. Going to Blacherne, and coming from it, he stopped at her house, and with every
interview it seemed his passion for her intensified.

Now it were not creditable to the young Princess' discernment to say she was blind to his feeling;
yet she was careful to conceal the discovery from him, and still more careful not to encourage
his hope. She placed the favor shown him to the account of gratitude; at the same time she
admired him, and was deeply interested in the religious sentiment he was beginning to manifest.

In the Count's first audience after the rescue from the lion, she explained how she came to
be drawn to the Cynegion. This led to detail of her relations with Sergius, concluding with
the declaration: "I gave him the signal to speak in Sancta Sophia, and felt I could not live
if he died the death, sent to it by me."

"Princess," the Count replied, "I heard the monk's sermon in Sancta Sophia, but did not know
of your giving the signal. Has any one impugned your motive in going to the Cynegion? Give
me his name. My sword says you did well."

"Count Corti, the Lord has taken care of His own."

"As you say, Princess Irene. Hear me before addressing yourself to something else.... I remember
the words of the Creed--or if I have them wrong correct me: 'I believe in God, and Jesus Christ,
his Son.'"

"It is word for word."

"Am I to understand you gave him the form?"

"The idea is Father Hilarion's."

"And the Two Articles. Are they indeed sayings of Jesus Christ?"

"Even so."

"Give me the book containing them."

Taking a New Testament from the table, she gave it to him.

"You will find the sayings easily. On the margins opposite them there are markings illuminated
in gold."

"Thanks, O Princess, most humbly. I will return the book."

"No, Count, it is yours."

An expression she did not understand darkened his face.

"Are you a Christian?" she asked.

He flushed deeply, and bowed while answering:

"My mother is a Christian."

That night Count Corti searched the book, and found that the strength of faith underlying his
mother's prayers for his return to her, and the Princess' determination to die with the monk,
were but Christian lights.

"Princess Irene," he said one day, "I have studied the book you gave me; and knowing now who
Christ is, I am ready to accept your Creed. Tell me how I may know myself a believer?"

A lamp in the hollow of an alabaster vase glows through the transparency; so her countenance
responded to the joy behind it.

"Render obedience to His commands--do His will, O Count--then wilt thou be a believer in Christ,
and know it."

The darkness she had observed fall once before on his face obscured it again, and he arose
and went out in silence.

Brave he certainly was, and strong. Who could strike like him? He loved opposition for the
delight there was in overcoming it; yet in his chamber that night he was never so weak. He
resorted to the book, but could not read. It seemed to accuse him. "Thou Islamite--thou son
of Mahomet, though born of a Christian, whom servest thou? Judas, what dost thou in this city?
Hypocrite--traitor--which is thy master, Mahomet or Christ?"

He fell upon his knees, tore at his beard, buried his head in his arms. He essayed prayer to
Christ.

"Jesus--Mother of Jesus--O my mother!" he cried in agony.

The hour he was accustomed to give to Mahommed came round. He drew out the writing materials.
"The Princess"--thus he began a sentence, but stopped--something caught hold of his heart--the
speaking face of the beloved woman appeared to him--her eyes were reproachful--her lips moved--she
spoke: "Count Corti, I am she whom thou lovest; but what dost thou? Is it not enough to betray
my kinsman? Thy courage--what makest thou of it but wickedness? ... Write of me to thy master.
Come every day, and contrive that I speak, then tell him of it. Am I sick? Tell him of it.
Do I hold to this or that? Tell him. Am I shaken by visions of ruin to my country? Tell him
of them. What is thy love if not the servant for hire of his love? Traitor--panderer!"

The Count pushed the table from him, and sprang to foot writhing. To shut out the word abhorrent
above all other words, he clapped his hands tight over his ears--in vain.

"Panderer!"--he heard with his soul--"Panderer! When thou hast delivered me to Mahommed, what
is he to give thee? How much?"

Thus shame, like a wild dog, bayed at him. For relief he ran out into the garden. And it was
only the beginning of misery. Such the introduction or first chapter, what of the catastrophe?
He could not sleep for shame.

In the morning he ordered his horse, but had not courage to go to Blacherne. How could he look
at the kindly face of the master he was betraying? He thought of the Princess. Could he endure
her salutation? She whom he was under compact to deliver to Mahommed? A paroxysm of despair
seized him.

He rode to the Gate St. Romain, and out of it into the country. Gallop, gallop--the steed was
good--his best Arab, fleet and tireless. Noon overtook him--few things else could--still he
galloped. The earth turned into a green ribbon under the flying hoofs, and there was relief
in the speed. The air, whisked through, was soothing. At length he came to a wood, wild and
interminable, Belgrade, though he knew it not, and dismounting by a stream, he spent the day
there. If now and then the steed turned its eyes upon him, attracted by his sighs, groans and
prayer, there was at least no accusation in them. The solitude was restful; and returning after
nightfall, he entered the city through the sortie under the Palace of Blacherne known as the
Cercoporta.

It is well pain of spirit has its intermissions; otherwise long life could not be; and if sleep
bring them, so much the better.

Next day betimes, the Count was at Blacherne.

"I pray grace, O my Lord!" he said, speaking to the question in the Emperor's look. "Yesterday
I had to ride. This confinement in the city deadens me. I rode all day."

The good, easy master sighed: "Would I had been with you, Count."

Thus he dismissed the truancy. But with the Princess it was a lengthy chapter. If the Emperor
was never so gracious, she seemed never so charming. He wrote to Mahommed in the evening, and
walked the garden the residue of the night.

So weeks and months passed, and March came--even the night of the twenty-fifth, with its order
from the Sultan to the White Castle--an interval of indecision, shame, and self-indictment.
How many plans of relief he formed who can say? Suicide he put by, a very last resort. There
was also a temptation to cut loose from Mahommed, and go boldly over to the Emperor. That would
be a truly Christian enlistment for the approaching war; and aside from conformity to his present
sympathies, it would give him a right to wear the Princess' favor on his helmet. But a fear
shook the resort out of mind. Mahommed, whether successful or defeated, would demand an explanation
of him, possibly an accounting. He knew the Sultan. Of all the schemes presented, the most
plausible was flight. There was the gate, and he its keeper, and beyond the gate, the sunny
Italian shore, and his father's castle. The seas and sailing between were as green landscapes
to a weary prisoner, and he saw in them only the joy of going and freedom to do. Welcome, and
to God the praise! More than once he locked his portables of greatest value in the cabin of
the galley. But alas! He was in bonds. Life in Constantinople now comprehended two of the ultimate
excellencies to him, Princess Irene and Christ--and their joinder in the argument he took to
be no offence.

From one to another of these projects he passed, and they but served to hide the flight of
time. He was drifting--ahead, and not far, he heard the thunder of coming events--yet he drifted.

In this condition, the most envied man in Constantinople and the most wretched, the Sultan's
order was delivered to him by Ali.

The time for decision was come. Tired--ashamed--angry with himself, he determined to force the end.

The Count arrived at the Castle, was immediately admitted to the Sultan; indeed, had he been
less resolute, his master's promptitude would have been a circumstance of disturbing significance.

Observation satisfied him Mahommed was in the field; for with all his Epicureanism in times
of peace, when a campaign was in progress the Conqueror resolved himself into a soldierly example
of indifference to luxury. In other words, with respect to furnishment, the interior of the
old Castle presented its every day ruggedness.

One lamp fixed to the wall near the door of the audience chamber struggled with the murk of
a narrow passage, giving to view an assistant chamberlain, an armed sentinel, and two jauntily
attired pages in waiting. Surrendering his sword to the chamberlain, the Count halted before
the door, while being announced; at the same time, he noticed a man come out of a neighboring
apartment clad in black velvet from head to foot, followed closely by a servant. It was the
Prince of India.

The mysterious person advanced slowly, his eyes fixed on the floor, his velvet-shod feet giving
out no sound. His air indicated deep reflection. In previous encounters with him, the Count
had been pleased; now his sensations were of repugnance mixed with doubt and suspicion. He
had not time to account for the change. It may have had origin in the higher prescience sometimes
an endowment of the spirit by which we stand advised of a friend or an enemy; most likely,
however, it was a consequence of the curious tales abroad in Constantinople; for at the recognition
up sprang the history of the Prince's connection with Lael, and her abandonment by him, the
more extraordinary from the evidences of his attachment to her. Up sprang also the opinion
of universal prevalence in the city that he had perished in the great fire. What did it all
mean? What kind of man was he?

The servant carried a package wrapped in gold-embroidered green silk.

Coming near, the Prince raised his eyes--stopped--smiled--and said:

"Count Corti--or Mirza the Emir--which have I the honor of meeting?"

In spite of the offence he felt, Corti blushed, such a flood of light did the salutation let
in upon the falsity of his position. Far from losing presence of mind, he perceived at once
how intimately the Prince stood in the councils of the Sultan.

"The Lord Mahommed must be heard before I can answer," he returned, calmly.

In an instant the Prince became cordial.

"That was well answered," he said. "I am pleased to have my judgment of you confirmed. Your
mission has been a trying one, but you have conducted it like a master. The Lord Mahommed has
thanked me many times that I suggested you for it. He is impatient to see you. We will go in
together."

Mahommed, in armor, was standing by a table on which were a bare cimeter, a lamp brightly burning,
and two large unrolled maps. In one of the latter, the Count recognized Constantinople and
its environs cast together from his own surveys.

Retired a few steps were the two Viziers, Kalil Pacha and his rival, Saganos Pacha, the Mollah
Kourani, and the Sheik Akschem-sed-din. The preaching of the Mollah had powerfully contributed
to arousing the fanatical spirit of the Sultan's Mohammedan subjects. The four were standing
in the attitude usual to Turkish officials in presence of a superior, their heads bowed, their
hands upon their stomachs. In speaking, if they raised their eyes from the floor it was to
shoot a furtive glance, then drop them again.

"This is the grand design of the work by which you will be governed," Mahommed said to the
counsellors, laying the finger points of his right hand upon the map unknown to the Count,
and speaking earnestly. "You will take it, and make copies tonight; for if the stars fail not,
I will send the masons and their workmen to the other shore in the morning."

The advisers saluted--it would be difficult to say which of them with the greatest unction.

Looking sharply at Kalil, the master asked: "You say you superintended the running of the lines
in person?"

Kalil saluted separately, and returned: "My Lord may depend upon the survey."

"Very well. I wait now only the indication of Heaven that the time is ripe for the movement.
Is the Prince of India coming?"

"I am here, my Lord."

Mahommed turned as the Prince spoke, and let his eyes rest a moment upon Count Corti, without
a sign of recognition.

"Come forward, Prince," he said. "What is the message you bring me?"

"My Lord," the Prince replied, after prostration, "in the Hebrew Scriptures there is a saying
in proof of the influence the planets have in the affairs of men: 'Then fought the kings of
Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they fought from heaven; the stars in their courses
fought against Sisera.' Now art thou truly Sultan of Sultans. To-morrow--the twenty-sixth of
March--will be memorable amongst days, for then thou mayst begin the war with the perfidious
Greek. From four o'clock in the morning the stars which fought against Sisera will fight for
Mahommed. Let those who love him salute and rejoice."

The counsellors, dropping on their knees, fell forward, their faces on their hands. The Prince
of India did the same. Count Corti alone remained standing, and Mahommed again observed him.

"Hear you," the latter said, to his officers. "Go assemble the masons and their workmen, the
masters of boats, and the chiefs charged with duties. At four o'clock in the morning I will
move against Europe. The stars have said it, and their permission is my law. Rise!"

As his associates were moving backward with repeated genuflections, the Prince of India spoke:

"O most favored of men! Let them stay a moment."

At a sign from the Sultan they halted; thereupon the Prince of India beckoned Syama to come,
and taking the package from his hands, he laid it on the table.

"For my Lord Mahommed," he said.

"What is it?" Mahommed demanded.

"A sign of conquest.... My Lord knows King Solomon ruled the world in his day, its soul of
wisdom. At his death dominion did not depart from him. The secret ministers in the earth, the
air and the waters, obedient to Allah, became his slaves. My Lord knows of whom I speak. Who
can resist them? ... In the tomb of Hiram, King of Tyre, the friend of King Solomon, I found
a sarcophagus. It was covered with a model in marble of the Temple of the Hebrew Almighty God.
Removing the lid, lo! the mummy of Hiram, a crown upon its head, and at its feet the sword
of Solomon, a present without price. I brought it away, resolved to give it to him whom the
stars should elect for the overthrow of the superstitions devised by Jesus, the bastard son
of Joseph the carpenter of Nazareth.... Undo the wrappings, Lord Mahommed."

The Sultan obeyed, and laying the last fold of the cloth aside, drew back staring, and with
uplifted hands.

"Kalil--Kourani--Akschem-sed-din--all of you, come look. Tell me what it is--it blinds me."

The sword of Solomon lay before them; its curved blade a gleam of splendor, its scabbard a
mass of brilliants, its hilt a ruby so pure we may say it retained in its heart the life of
a flame.

"Take it in hand, Lord Mahommed," said the Prince of India.

The young Sultan lifted the sword, and as he did so down a groove in its back a stream of pearls
started and ran, ringing musically, and would not rest while he kept the blade in motion. He
was speechless from wonder.

"Now may my Lord march upon Constantinople, for the stars and every secret minister of Solomon
will fight for him."

So saying, the Prince knelt before the Sultan, and laid his lips on the instep of his foot,
adding: "Oh, my Lord! with that symbol in hand, march, and surely as Tabor is among the mountains
and Carmel by the sea, so surely Christ will give place to Mahomet in Sancta Sophia. March
at four o'clock."

And the counsellors left kisses on the same instep, and departed.

Thence through the night the noises of preparation kept the space between the hills of the
narrows alive with echoes. At the hour permitted by the stars--four o'clock--a cloud of boats
cast loose from the Asiatic shore, and with six thousand laborers, handmen to a thousand master
masons, crossed at racing speed to Europe. "God is God, and Mahomet is his Prophet," they shouted.
The vessels of burden, those with lime, those with stone, those with wood, followed as they
were called, and unloading, hauled out, to give place to others.

Before sun up the lines of the triangular fort whose walls near Roumeli-Hissar are yet intact,
prospectively a landmark enduring as the Pyramids, were defined and swarming with laborers.
The three Pachas, Kalil, Sarudje, and Saganos, superintended each a side of the work, and over
them all, active and fiercely zealous, moved Mahommed, the sword of Solomon in his hand.

And there was no lack of material for the structure extensive as it was. Asia furnished its
quota, and Christian towns and churches on the Bosphorus were remorselessly levelled for the
stones in them; wherefore the outer faces of the curtains and towers are yet speckled with
marbles in block, capital and column.

Thus Mahommed, taking his first step in the war so long a fervid dream, made sure of his base
of operations.

On the twenty-eighth of August, the work completed, from his camp on the old Asometon promontory
he reconnoitred the country up to the ditch of Constantinople, and on the first of September
betook himself to Adrianople.

CHAPTER II

MAHOMMED AND COUNT CORTI MAKE A WAGER

Upon the retirement of the Prince of India and the counsellors, Mahommed took seat by the table,
and played with the sword of Solomon, making the pearls travel up and down the groove in the
blade, listening to their low ringing, and searching for inscriptions. This went on until Count
Corti began to think himself forgotten. At length the Sultan, looking under the guard, uttered
an exclamation--looked again--and cried out:

"O Allah! It is true!--May I be forgiven for doubting him!--Come, Mirza, come see if my eyes
deceive me. Here at my side!"

The Count mastered his surprise, and was presently leaning over the Sultan's shoulder.

"You remember, Mirza, we set out together studying Hebrew. Against your will I carried you
along with me until you knew the alphabet, and could read a little. You preferred Italian,
and when I brought the learned men, and submitted to them that Hebrew was one of a family of
tongues more or less alike, and would have sent you with them to the Sidonian coast for inscriptions,
you refused. Do you remember?"

"My Lord, those were the happiest days of my life."

Mahommed laughed. "I kept you three days on bread and water, and let you off then because I
could not do without you.... But for the matter now. Under this guard--look--are not the brilliants
set in the form of letters?"

Corti examined closely.

"Yes, yes; there are letters--I see them plainly--a name."

"Spell it."

"S-O-L-O-M-O-N."

"Then I have not deceived myself," Mahommed exclaimed. "Nor less has the Prince of India deceived
me." He grew more serious. "A marvellous man! I cannot make him out. The more I do with him
the more incomprehensible he becomes. The long past is familiar to him as the present to me.
He is continually digging up things ages old, and amazing me with them. Several times I have
asked him when he was born, and he has always made the same reply: 'I will tell when you are
Lord of Constantinople.' ... How he hates Christ and the Christians! ... This is indeed the
sword of Solomon--and he found it in the tomb of Hiram, and gives it to me as the elect of
the stars now. Ponder it, O Mirza! Now at the mid of the night in which I whistle up my dogs
of war to loose them on the Gabour--How, Mirza--what ails you? Why that change of countenance?
Is he not a dog of an unbeliever? On your knees before me--I have more to tell you than to
ask. No, spurs are troublesome. To the door and bid the keeper there bring a stool--and look
lest the lock have an ear hanging to it. Old Kalil, going out, though bowing, and lip-handing
me, never took his eyes off you."

The stool brought, Corti was about to sit.

"Take off your cap"--Mahommed spoke sternly--"for as you are not the Mirza I sent away, I want
to see your face while we talk. Sit here, in the full of the light."

The Count seated, placed his hooded cap on the floor. He was perfectly collected. Mahommed
fingered the ruby hilt while searching the eyes which as calmly searched his.

"How brave you are!" the Sultan began, but stopped. "Poor Mirza!" he began again, his countenance
softened. One would have said some tender recollection was melting the shell of his heart.
"Poor Mirza! I loved you better than I loved my father, better than I loved my brothers, well
as I loved my mother--with a love surpassing all I ever knew but one, and of that we will presently
speak. If honor has a soul, it lives in you, and the breath you draw is its wine, purer than
the first expressage of grapes from the Prophet's garden down by Medina. Your eyes look truth,
your tongue drips it as a broken honey-comb drips honey. You are truth as God is God."

He was speaking sincerely.

"Fool--fool--that I let you go!--and I would not--no, by the rose-door of Paradise and the
golden stairs to the House of Allah, I would not had I loved my full moon of full moons less.
She was parted from me; and with whose eyes could I see her so well as with yours, O my falcon?
Who else would report to me so truly her words? Love makes men and lions mad; it possessed
me; and I should have died of it but for your ministering. Wherefore, O Mirza"--

The Count had been growing restive; now he spoke. "My Lord is about committing himself to some
pledge. He were wise, did he hear me first."

"Perhaps so," the Sultan rejoined, uncertainly, but added immediately: "I will hear you."

"It is true, as my Lord said, I am not the Mirza he despatched to Italy. The changes I have
undergone are material; and in recounting them I anticipate his anger. He sees before him the
most wretched of men to whom death would be mercy."

"Is it so bad? You were happy when you went away. Was not the mission to your content?"

"My Lord's memory is a crystal cup from which nothing escapes--a cup without a leak. He must
recall how I prayed to stay with him."

"Yes, yes."

"My dread was prophetic."

"Tell me of the changes."

"I will--and truly as there is but one God, and he the father of life and maker of things.
First, then, the affection which at my going was my Lord's, and which gave me to see him as
the Light of the World, and the perfection of glory in promise, is now divided."

"You mean there is another Light of the World? Be it so, and still you leave me flattered.
How far you had to travel before finding the other! Who is he?"

"The Emperor of the Greeks."

"Constantine? Are his gifts so many and rich? The next."

"I am a Christian."

"Indeed? Perhaps you can tell me the difference between God and Allah. Yesterday Kourani said
they were the same."

"Nay, my Lord, the difference is between Christ and Mahomet."

"The mother of the one was a Jewess, the mother of the other an Arab--I see. Go on."

The Count did not flinch. "My Lord, great as is your love of the Princess Irene"--Mahommed
half raised his hands, his brows knit, his eyes filled with fire, but the Count continued composedly--"mine
is greater."

The Sultan recovered himself.

"The proof, the proof!" he said, his voice a little raised. "My love of her is consuming me,
but I see you alive."

"My Lord's demand is reasonable. I came here to make the avowal, and die. Would my Lord so much?"

"You would die for the Princess?"

"My Lord has said it."

"Is there not something else in the urgency?"

"Yes--honor."

The Count's astonishment was unspeakable. He expected an outburst of wrath unappeasable, a
summons for an executioner; instead, Mahommed's eyes became humid, and resting his elbow on
the table, and his face on the thumb and forefinger, he said, gazing sorrowfully:

"Ahmed was my little brother. His mother published before my father's death, that my mother
was a slave. She was working for her child already, and I had him smothered in a bath. Cruel?
God forgive me! It was my duty to provide for the peace of my people. I had a right to take
care of myself; yet will I never be forgiven. Kismet!... I have had many men slain since. I
travel, going to mighty events beckoned by destiny. The ordinary cheap soul cannot understand
how necessary it is that my path should be smooth and clear; for sometime I may want to run;
and he will amuse or avenge himself by stamping me in history a monster without a soul. Kismet!
... But you, my poor Mirza, you should know me better. You are my brother without guile. I
am not afraid to love you. I do love you. Let us see.... Your letters from Constantinople--I
have them all--told me so much more than you intended, I could not suspect your fidelity. They
prepared me for everything you have confessed. Hear how in my mind I disposed of them point
by point.... 'Mirza,' I said, 'pities the Gabour Emperor; in the end he will love him. Loving
a hundred men is less miraculous in a man than loving one. He will make comparisons. Why not?
The Gabour appeals to him through his weakness, I through my strength. I would rather be feared
than pitied. Moreover, the Gabour's day runs to its close, and as it closes, mine opens. Pity
never justified treason.' ... And I said, too, on reading the despatch detailing your adventures
in Italy: 'Poor Mirza! now has he discovered he is an Italian, stolen when a child, and having
found his father's castle and his mother, a noble woman, he will become a Christian, for so
would I in his place.' Did I stop there? The wife of the Pacha who received you from your abductors
is in Broussa. I sent to her asking if she had a keepsake or memento which would help prove
your family and country. See what she returned to me."

From under a cloth at the further end of the table, Mahommed drew a box, and opening it, produced
a collar of lace fastened with a cameo pin. On the pin there was a graven figure.

"Tell me, Mirza, if you recognize the engraving." The Count took the cameo, looked at it, and
replied, with a shaking voice:

"The arms of the Corti! God be praised!"

"And here--what are these, and what the name on them?"

Mahommed gave him a pair of red morocco half-boots for a child, on which, near the tops, a
name was worked in silk.

"It is mine, my Lord--my name--'Ugo.'"

He cast himself before the Sultan, and embraced his knees, saying, in snatches as best he could:

"I do not know what my Lord intends--whether he means I am to die or live--if it be death,
I pray him to complete his mercy by sending these proofs to my mother"--

"Poor Mirza, arise! I prefer to have your face before me."

Directly the Count was reseated, Mahommed continued:

"And you, too, love the Princess Irene? You say you love her more than I? And you thought I
could not endure hearing you tell it? That I would summon black Hassan with his bowstring?
With all your opportunities, your seeing and hearing her, as the days multiplied from tens
to hundreds, is it for me to teach you she will come to no man except as a sacrifice? What
great thing have you to offer her? While I--well, by this sword of Solomon, to-morrow morning
I set out to say to her: 'For thy love, O my full Moon of full Moons, for thy love thou shalt
have the redemption of thy Church.'... And besides, did I not foresee your passion? Courtiers
stoop low and take pains to win favor; but no courtier, not even a professional, intending
merely to please me, could have written of her as you did; and by that sign, O Mirza, I knew
you were in the extremity of passion. Offended? Not so, not so! I sent you to take care of
her--fight for her--die, if her need were so great. Of whom might I expect such service but
a lover? Did I not, the night of our parting, foretell what would happen?" He paused gazing
at the ruby of the ring on his finger.

"See, Mirza! There has not been a waking hour since you left me but I have looked at this jewel;
and it has kept color faithfully. Often as I beheld it, I said: 'Mirza loves her because he
cannot help it; yet he is keeping honor with me. Mirza is truth, as God is God. From his hand
will I receive her in Constantinople'"--

"O my Lord"--

"Peace, peace! The night wanes, and you have to return. Of what was I speaking? Oh, yes"--

"But hear me, my Lord. At the risk of your displeasure I must speak."

"What is it?"

"In her presence my heart is always like to burst, yet, as I am to be judged in the last great
day, I have kept faith with my Lord. Once she thanked me--it was after I offered myself to
the lion--O Heaven! how nearly I lost my honor! Oh, the agony of that silence! The anguish
of that remembrance! I have kept the faith, my Lord. But day by day now the will to keep it
grows weaker. All that holds me steadfast is my position in Constantinople. What am I there?"

The Count buried his face in his hands, and through the links in his surcoat the tremor which
shook his body was apparent.

Mahommed waited.

"What am I there? Having come to see the goodness of the Emperor, I must run daily to betray
him. I am a Christian; yet as Judas sold his Master, I am under compact to sell my religion.
I love a noble woman, yet am pledged to keep her safely, and deliver her to another. O my Lord,
my Lord! This cannot go on. Shame is a vulture, and it is tearing me--my heart bleeds in its
beak. Release me, or give me to death. If you love me, release me."

"Poor Mirza!"

"My Lord, I am not afraid."

Mahommed struck the table violently, and his eyes glittered. "That ever one should think I
loved a coward! Yet more intolerable, that he whom I have called brother should know me so
little! Can it be, O Mirza, can it be, you tell me these things imagining them new to me? ...
Let me have done. What we are saying would have become us ten years ago, not now. It is unmanly.
I had a purpose in sending for you.... Your mission in Constantinople ends in the morning at
four o'clock. In other words, O Mirza, the condition passes from preparation for war with the
Gabour to war. Observe now. You are a fighting man--a knight of skill and courage. In the rencounters
to which I am going--the sorties, the assaults, the duels single and in force, the exchanges
with all arms, bow, arbalist, guns small and great, the mines and countermines--you cannot
stay out. You must fight. Is it not so?"

Corti's head arose, his countenance brightened.

"My Lord, I fear I run forward of your words--forgive me."

"Yes, give ear.... The question now is, whom will you fight--me or the Gabour?"

"O my Lord"--

"Be quiet, I say. The issue is not whether you love me less. I prefer you give him your best
service."

"How, my Lord?"

"I am not speaking in contempt, but with full knowledge of your superiority with weapons--of
the many of mine who must go down before you. And that you may not be under restraint of conscience
or arm-tied in the melee, I not only conclude your mission, but release you from every obligation
to me."

"Every obligation!"

"I know my words, Emir, yet I will leave nothing uncertain.... You will go back to the city
free of every obligation to me--arm-free, mind-free. Be a Christian, if you like. Send me no
more despatches advisory of the Emperor"--

"And the Princess Irene, my Lord?"

Mahommed smiled at the Count's eagerness.

"Have patience, Mirza.... Of the moneys had from me, and the properties heretofore mine in
trust, goods, horses, arms, armor, the galley and its crew, I give them to you without an accounting.
You cannot deliver them to me or dispose of them, except with an explanation which would weaken
your standing in Blacherne, if not undo you utterly. You have earned them."

Corti's face reddened.

"With all my Lord's generosity, I cannot accept this favor. Honor"--

"Silence, Emir, and hear me. I have never been careless of your honor. When you set out for
Italy, preparatory to the mission at Constantinople, you owed me duty, and there was no shame
in the performance; but now--so have the changes wrought--that which was honorable to Mirza
the Emir is scandalous to Count Corti. After four o'clock you will owe me no duty; neither
will you be in my service. From that hour Mirza, my falcon, will cease to be. He will have
vanished. Or if ever I know him more, it will be as Count Corti, Christian, stranger, and enemy."

"Enemy--my Lord's enemy? Never!"

The Count protested with extended arms.

"Yes, circumstances will govern. And now the Princess Irene."

Mahommed paused; then, summoning his might of will, and giving it expression in a look, he
laid a forcible hand on the listener's shoulder.

"Of her now.... I have devised a promotion for you, Emir. After to-night we will be rivals."

Corti was speechless--he could only stare.

"By the rose-door of Paradise--the only oath fit for a lover--or, as more becoming a knight,
by this sword of Solomon, Emir, I mean the rivalry to be becoming and just. I have an advantage
of you. With women rank and riches are as candles to moths. On the other side your advantage
is double; you are a Christian, and may be in her eyes day after day. And not to leave you
in mean condition, I give you the moneys and property now in your possession; not as a payment--God
forbid!--but for pride's sake--my pride. Mahommed the Sultan may not dispute with a knight
who has only a sword."

"I have estates in Italy."

"They might as well be in the moon. I shall enclose Constantinople before you could arrange
with the Jews, and have money enough to buy a feather for your cap. If this were less true,
comes then the argument: How can you dispose of the properties in hand, and quiet the gossips
in the Gabour's palace? 'Where are your horses?' they will ask. What answer have you? 'Where
your galley?' Answer. 'Where your Mohammedan crew?' Answer."

The Count yielded the debate, saying: "I cannot comprehend my Lord. Such thing was never heard
of before."

"Must men be restrained because the thing they wish to do was never heard of before? Shall
I not build a mosque with five minarets because other builders stopped with three? ... To the
sum of it all now. Christian or Moslem, are you willing to refer our rivalry for the young
woman to God?"

"My wonder grows with listening to my Lord."

"Nay, this surprises you because it is new. I have had it in mind for months. It did not come
to me easily. It demanded self-denial--something I am unused to.... Here it is--I am willing
to call Heaven in, and let it decide whether she shall be mine or yours--this lily of Paradise
whom all men love at sight. Dare you as much?"

The soldier spirit arose in the Count.

"Now or then, here or there, as my Lord may appoint. I am ready. He has but to name his champion."

"I protest. The duel would be unequal. As well match a heron and a hawk. There is a better
way of making our appeal. Listen.... The walls of Constantinople have never succumbed to attack.
Hosts have dashed against them, and fled or been lost. It may be so with me; but I will march,
and in my turn assault them, and thou defending with thy best might. If I am beaten, if I retire,
be the cause of failure this or that, we--you and I, O Mirza--will call it a judgment of Heaven,
and the Princess shall be yours; but if I success and enter the city, it shall be a judgment
no less, and then"--Mahommed's eyes were full of fire--"then"--

"What then, my Lord?"

"Thou shalt see to her safety in the last struggle, and conduct her to Sancta Sophia, and there
deliver her to me as ordered by God."

Corti was never so agitated. He turned pale and red--he trembled visibly.

Mahommed asked mockingly: "Is it Mirza I am treating with, or Count Corti? Are Christians so
unwilling to trust God?"

"But, my Lord, it is a wager you offer me."

"Call it so."

"And its conditions imply slavery for the Princess. Change them, my Lord--allow her to be consulted
and have her will, be the judgment this or that."

Mahommed clinched his hands.

"Am I a brute? Did ever woman lay her head on my breast perforce?"

The Count replied, firmly:

"Such a condition would be against us both alike."

The Sultan struggled with himself a moment.

"Be it so," he rejoined. "The wager is my proposal, and I will go through with it. Take the
condition, Emir. If I win, she shall come to me of her free will or not at all."

"A wife, my Lord?"

"In my love first, and in my household first--my Sultana."

The animation which then came to the Count was wonderful. He kissed Mahommed's hand.

"Now has my Lord outdone himself in generosity. I accept. In no other mode could the issue
be made so absolutely a determination of Heaven."

Mahommed arose.

"We are agreed.--The interview is finished.--Ali is waiting for you."

He replaced the cover on the box containing the collar and the half-boots.

"I will send these to the Countess your mother; for hereafter you are to be to me Ugo, Count
Corti.... My falcon hath cast its jess and hood. Mirza is no more. Farewell Mirza."

Corti was deeply moved. Prostrating himself, he arose, and replied:

"I go hence more my Lord's lover than ever. Death to the stranger who in my presence takes
his name in vain."

As he was retiring, Mahommed spoke again:

"A word, Count.... In what we are going to, the comfort and safety of the Princess Irene may
require you to communicate with me. You have ready wit for such emergencies. Leave me a suggestion."

Corti reflected an instant.

"The signal must proceed from me," he said. "My Lord will pitch his tent in sight"--

"By Solomon, and this his sword, yes! Every Gabour who dares look over the wall shall see it
while there is a hill abiding."

The Count bowed.

"I know my Lord, and give him this--God helping me, I will make myself notorious to the besiegers
as he will be to the besieged. If at any time he sees my banderole, or if it be reported to
him, let him look if my shield be black; if so, he shall come himself with a shield the color
of mine, and place himself in my view. My Lord knows I make my own arrows. If I shoot one black
feathered, he must pick it up. The ferrule will be of hollow lead covering a bit of scrip."

"Once more, Count Corti, the issue is with God. Good night."

Traversing the passage outside the door, the Count met the Prince of India.

"An hour ago I would have entitled you Emir: but now"--the Prince smiled while speaking--"I
have stayed to thank Count Corti for his kindness to my black friend Nilo."

"Your servant?"

"My friend and ally--Nilo the King.... If the Count desires to add to the obligation, he will
send the royal person to me with Ali when he returns to-night."

"I will send him."

"Thanks, Count Corti."

The latter lingered, gazing into the large eyes and ruddy face, expecting at least an inquiry
after Lael. He received merely a bow, and the words: "We will meet again."

Night was yet over the city, when Ali, having landed the Count, drew out of the gate with Nilo.
The gladness of the King at being restored to his master can be easily fancied.

CHAPTER III

THE BLOODY HARVEST

In June, a few days after the completion of the enormous work begun by Mahommed on the Asometon
promontory, out of a gate attached to the High Residence of Blacherne, familiarly known as
the Caligaria, there issued a small troop of horsemen of the imperial military establishment.

The leader of this party--ten in all--was Count Corti. Quite a body of spectators witnessed
the exit, and in their eyes he was the most gallant knight they had ever seen. They cheered
him as, turning to the right after issuance from the gate, he plunged at a lively trot into
the ravine at the foot of the wall, practically an immense natural fosse. "God and our Lady
of Blacherne," they shouted, and continued shouting while he was in sight, notwithstanding
he did not so much as shake the banderole on his lance in reply.

Of the Count's appearance this morning it is unnecessary to say more than that he was in the
suit of light armor habitual to him, and as an indication of serious intent, bore, besides
the lance, a hammer or battle-axe fixed to his saddle-bow, a curved sword considerably longer,
though not so broad as a cimeter, a bow and quiver of arrows at his back, and a small shield
or buckler over the quiver. The favorite chestnut Arab served him for mount, its head and neck
clothed in flexible mail. The nine men following were equipped like himself in every particular,
except that their heads were protected by close-fitting conical caps, and instead of armor
on their legs, they wore flowing red trousers.

Of them it may be further remarked, their mode of riding, due to their short stirrups, was
indicative of folk akin to the Bedouin of the Desert.

Upon returning from the last interview with Mahommed in the White Castle, the Count had subjected
the crew of his galley to rigorous trial of fitness for land service. Nine of them he found
excellent riders after their fashion, and selecting them as the most promising, he proceeded
to instruct them in the use of the arms they were now bearing. His object in this small organization
was a support to rush in after him rather than a battle front. That is, in a charge he was
to be the lance's point, and they the broadening of the lance's blade; while he was engaged,
intent on the foe before him, eight of them were to guard him right and left, and, as the exigencies
of combat might demand, open and close in fan-like movement. The ninth man was a fighter in
their rear. In the simple manoeuvring of this order of battle he had practised them diligently
through the months. The skill attained was remarkable; and the drilling having been in the
Hippodrome, open to the public, the concourse to see it had been encouraging.

In truth, the wager with Mahommed had supplied the Count with energy of body and mind. He studied
the chances of the contest, knowing how swiftly it was coming, and believed it possible to
defend the city successfully. At all events, he would do his best, and if the judgment were
adverse, it should not be through default on his part.

The danger--and he discerned it with painful clearness--was in the religious dissensions of
the Greeks; still he fancied the first serious blow struck by the Turks, the first bloodshed,
would bring the factions together, if only for the common safety.

It is well worth while here to ascertain the views and feelings of the people whom Count Corti
was thus making ready to defend. This may be said of them generally: It seemed impossible to
bring them to believe the Sultan really intended war against the city.

"What if he does?" they argued. "Who but a young fool would think of such a thing? If he comes,
we will show him the banner of the Blessed Lady from the walls."

If in the argument there was allusion to the tower on the Asometon heights, so tall one could
stand on its lead-covered roof, and looking over the intermediate hills, almost see into Constantinople,
the careless populace hooted at the exaggeration: "There be royal idiots as well as every-day
idiots. Staring at us is one thing, shooting at us is another. Towers with walls thirty feet
thick are not movable."

One day a report was wafted through the gates that a gun in the water battery of the new Turkish
fort had sunk a passing ship. "What flag was the ship flying?" "The Venetian." "Ah, that settles
it," the public cried. "The Sultan wants to keep the Venetians out of the Black Sea. The Turks
and the Venetians have always been at war."

A trifle later intelligence came that the Sultan, lingering at Basch-Kegan, supposably because
the air along the Bosphorus was better than the air at Adrianople, had effected a treaty by
which the Podesta of Galata bound his city to neutrality; still the complacency of the Byzantines
was in no wise disturbed. "Score one for the Genoese. It is good to hear of their beating the
Venetians."

Occasionally a wanderer--possibly a merchant, more likely a spy--passing the bazaars of Byzantium,
entertained the booth-keepers with stories of cannon being cast for the Sultan so big that
six men tied together might be fired from them at once. The Greeks only jeered. Some said:
"Oh, the Mahound must be intending a salute for the man in the moon of Ramazan!" Others decided:
"Well, he is crazier than we thought him. There are many hills on the road to Adrianople, and
at the foot of every hill there is a bridge. To get here he must invent wings for his guns,
and even then it will be long before they can be taught to fly."

At times, too, the old city was set agog with rumors from the Asiatic provinces opposite that
the Sultan was levying unheard-of armies; he had half a million recruits already, but wanted
a million. "Oh, he means to put a lasting quietus on Huniades and his Hungarians. He is sensible
in taking so many men."

In compliment to the intelligence of the public, this obliviousness to danger had one fostering
circumstance--the gates of the city on land and water stood open day and night.

"See," it was everywhere said, "the Emperor is not alarmed. Who has more at stake than he?
He is a soldier, if he is an azymite. He keeps ambassadors with the Sultan--what for, if not
to be advised?"

And there was a great deal in the argument.

At length the Greek ambassadors were expelled by Mahommed. It was while he lay at Basch-Kegan.
They themselves brought the news. This was ominous, yet the public kept its spirits. The churches,
notably Sancta Sophia, were more than usually crowded with women; that was all, for the gates
not only remained open, but traffic went in and out of them unhindered--out even to the Turkish
camp, the Byzantines actually competing with their neighbors of Galata in the furnishment of
supplies. Nay, at this very period every morning a troop of the Imperial guard convoyed a wagon
from Blacherne out to Basch-Kegan laden with the choicest food and wines; and to the officer
receiving them the captain of the convoy invariably delivered himself: "From His Majesty, the
Emperor of the Romans and Greeks, to the Lord Mahommed, Sultan of the Turks. Prosperity and
long life to the Sultan."

If these were empty compliments, if the relations between the potentates were slippery, if
war were hatching, what was the Emperor about?

Six months before the fort opposite the White Castle was begun, Constantine had been warned
of Mahommed's projected movement against his capital. The warning was from Kalil Pacha; and
whether Kalil was moved by pity, friendship, or avarice is of no moment; certain it is the
Emperor acted upon the advice. He summoned a council, and proposed war; but was advised to
send a protesting embassy to the enemy. A scornful answer was returned. Seeing the timidity
of his cabinet, cast upon himself, he resolved to effect a policy, and accordingly expostulated,
prayed, sent presents, offered tribute, and by such means managed to satisfy his advisers;
yet all the time he was straining his resources in preparation.

In the outset, he forced himself to face two facts of the gravest import: first, of his people,
those of age and thews for fighting were in frocks, burrowing in monasteries; next, the clergy
and their affiliates were his enemies, many openly preferring a Turk to an azymite. A more
discouraging prospect it is difficult to imagine. There was but one hope left him. Europe was
full of professional soldiers. Perhaps the Pope had influence to send him a sufficient contingent.
Would His Holiness interest himself so far? The brave Emperor despatched an embassy to Rome,
promising submission to the Papacy, and praying help in Christ's name.

Meantime his agents dispersed themselves through the Aegean, buying provisions and arms, enginery,
and war material of all kinds. This business kept his remnant of a navy occupied. Every few
days a vessel would arrive with stores for the magazine under the Hippodrome. By the time the
fort at Roumeli Hissar was finished, one of his anxieties was in a measure relieved. The other
was more serious. Then the frequency with which he climbed the Tower of Isaac, the hours he
passed there gazing wistfully southward down the mirror of the Marmora, became observable.
The valorous, knightly heart, groaning under the humiliations of the haughty Turk, weary not
less of the incapacity of his own people to perceive their peril, and arise heroically to meet
it, found opportunity to meditate while he was pacing the lofty lookout, and struggling to
descry the advance of the expected succor.

In this apology the reader who has wondered at the inaction of the Emperor what time the Sultan
was perfecting his Asiatic communications is answered. There was nothing for him but a siege.
To that alternative the last of the Romans was reduced. He could not promise himself enough
of his own subjects to keep the gates, much less take the field.

The country around Constantinople was given to agriculture. During the planting season, and
the growing, the Greek husbandmen received neither offence nor alarm from the Turks. But in
June, when the emerald of the cornfields was turning to gold, herds of mules and cavalry horses
began to ravage the fields, and the watchmen, hastening from their little huts on the hills
to drive them out, were set upon by the soldiers and beaten. They complained to the Emperor,
and he sent an embassy to the Sultan praying him to save the crops from ruin. In reply, Mahommed
ordered the son of Isfendiar, a relative, to destroy the harvest. The peasants resisted, and
not unsuccessfully. In the South, and in the fields near Hissar on the north, there were deaths
on both sides. Intelligence of the affair coming to Constantine, he summoned Count Corti.

"The long expected has arrived," he said. "Blood has been shed. My people have been attacked
and slain in their fields; their bodies lie out unburied. The war cannot be longer deferred.
It is true the succors from the Holy Father have not arrived; but they are on the way, and
until they come we must defend ourselves. Cold and indifferent my people have certainly been.
Now I will make a last effort to arouse them. Go out toward Hissar, and recover the dead. Have
the bodies brought in just as they are. I will expose them in the Hippodrome. Perhaps their
bruises and blood may have an effect; if not, God help this Christian city. I will give you
a force."

"Your Majesty," the Count replied, "such an expedition might provoke an advance upon the city
before you are entirely prepared. Permit me to select a party from my own men." "As you choose.
A guide will accompany you."

To get to the uplands, so to speak, over which, north of Galata, the road to Hissar stretched,
Corti was conducted past the Cynegion and through the districts of Eyoub to the Sweet Waters
of Europe, which he crossed by a bridge below the site of the present neglected country palace
of the Sultan. Up on the heights he turned left of Pera, and after half an hour's rapid movement
was trending northward parallel with the Bosphorus, reaches of which were occasionally visible
through cleftings of the mountainous shore. Straw-thatched farmhouses dotted the hills and
slopes, and the harvest spread right and left in cheerful prospect.

The adventurer had ample time to think; but did little of it, being too full of self-gratulation
at having before him an opportunity to recommend himself to the Emperor, with a possibility
of earning distinction creditable in the opinion of the Princess Irene.

At length an exclamation of his guide aroused him to action.

"The Turks, the Turks!"

"Where?"

"See that smoke."

Over a hilltop in his front, the Count beheld the sign of alarm crawling slowly into the sky.

"Here is a village--to our left, but"--

"Have done," said Corti, "and get me to the fire. Is there a nearer way than this?"

"Yes, under the hill yonder."

"Is it broken?"

"It narrows to a path, but is clear."

The Count spoke in Arabic to his followers, and taking the gallop, pushed the guide forward.
Shortly a party of terror-stricken peasants ran down toward him.

"Why do you run? What is the matter?" he asked.

"Oh, the Turks, the Turks!"

"What of them? Stand, and tell me."

"We went to work this morning cutting corn, for it is now ripe enough. The Mahounds broke in
on us. We were a dozen to their fifty or more. We only escaped, and they set fire to the field.
O Christ, and the Most Holy Mother! Let us pass, or we too will be slain!"

"Are they mounted?"

"Some have horses, some are afoot."

"Where are they now?"

"In the field on the hill."

"Well, go to the village fast as you can, and tell the men there to come and pick up their
dead. Tell them not to fear, for the Emperor has sent me to take care of them."

With that the Count rode on.

This was the sight presented him when he made the ascent: A wheat field sloping gradually to
the northeast; fire creeping across it crackling, smoking, momentarily widening; through the
cloud a company of Turkish soldiers halted, mostly horsemen, their arms glinting brightly in
the noon sun; blackened objects, unmistakably dead men, lying here and there. Thus the tale
of the survivors of the massacre was confirmed.

Corti gave his lance with the banderole on it to the guide. By direction his Berbers drove
their lances into the earth that they might leave them standing, drew their swords, and brought
their bucklers forward. Then he led them into the field. A few words more, directions probably,
and he started toward the enemy, his followers close behind two and two, with a rear-guardsman.
He allowed no outcry, but gradually increased the pace.

There were two hundred and more yards to be crossed, level, except the slope, and with only
the moving line of fire as an impediment. The crop, short and thin, was no obstacle under the
hoofs.

The Turks watched the movement herded, like astonished sheep. They may not have comprehended
that they were being charged, or they may have despised the assailants on account of their
inferiority in numbers, or they may have relied on the fire as a defensive wall; whatever the
reason, they stood passively waiting.

When the Count came to the fire, he gave his horse the spur, and plunging into the smoke and
through the flame full speed, appeared on the other side, shouting: "Christ and Our Lady of
Blacherne!" His long sword flashed seemingly brighter of the passage just made. Fleckings of
flame clung to the horses. What the battle-cry of the Berbers we may not tell. They screamed
something un-Christian, echoes of the Desert. Then the enemy stirred; some drew their blades,
some strung their bows; the footmen amongst them caught their javelins or half-spears in the
middle, and facing to the rear, fled, and kept flying, without once looking over their shoulders.

One man mounted, and in brighter armor than the others, his steel cap surmounted with an immense
white turban, a sparkling aigrette pinned to the turban, cimeter in hand, strove to form his
companions--but it was too late. "Christ and our Lady of Blacherne!"--and with that Corti was
in their midst; and after him, into the lane he opened, his Berbers drove pell-mell, knocking
Turks from their saddles, and overthrowing horses--and there was cutting and thrusting, and
wounds given, and souls rendered up through darkened eyes.

The killing was all on one side; then as a bowl splinters under a stroke, the Turkish mass
flew apart, and went helter-skelter off, each man striving to take care of himself. The Berbers
spared none of the overtaken.

Spying the man with the showy armor, the Count made a dash to get to him, and succeeded, for
to say truth, he was not an unwilling foeman. A brief combat took place, scarcely more than
a blow, and the Turk was disarmed and at mercy.

"Son of Isfendiar," said Corti, "the slaying these poor people with only their harvest knives
for weapons was murder. Why should I spare your life?"

"I was ordered to punish them."

"By whom?"

"My Lord the Sultan."

"Do your master no shame. I know and honor him."

"Yesterday they slew our Moslems."

"They but defended their own.... You deserve death, but I have a message for the Lord Mahommed.
Swear by the bones of the Prophet to deliver it, and I will spare you."

"If you know my master, as you say, he is quick and fierce of temper, and if I must die, the
stroke may be preferable at your hand. Give me the message first."

"Well, come with me."

The two remained together until the flight and pursuit were ended; then, the fire reduced to
patches for want of stalks to feed it, the Count led the way back to the point at which he
entered the field. Taking his lance from the guide, he passed it to the prisoner.

"This is what I would have you do," he said. "The lance is mine. Carry it to your master, the
Lord Mahommed, and say to him, Ugo, Count Corti, salute him, and prays him to look at the banderole,
and fix it in his memory. He will understand the message, and be grateful for it. Now will
you swear?"

The banderole was a small flag of yellow silk, with a red moon in the centre, and on the face
of the moon a white cross. Glancing at it, the son of Isfendiar replied:

"Take off the cross, and you show me a miniature standard of the Silihdars, my Lord's guard
of the Palace." Then looking the Count full in the face, he added: "Under other conditions
I should salute you Mirza, Emir of the Hajj."

"I have given you my name and title. Answer."

"I will deliver the lance and message to my Lord--I swear it by the bones of the Prophet."

Scarcely had the Turk disappeared in the direction of Hissar, when a crowd of peasants, men
and women, were seen coming timorously from the direction of the village. The Count rode to
meet them, and as they were provided with all manner of litters, by his direction the dead
Greeks were collected, and soon, with piteous lamentations, a funeral cortege was on the road
moving slowly to Constantinople. Anticipating a speedy reappearance of the Turks, hostilities
being now unavoidable, Count Corti despatched messengers everywhere along the Bosphorus, warning
the farmers and villagers to let their fields go, and seek refuge in the city. So it came about
that the escort of the murdered peasants momentarily increased until at the bridge over the
Sweet Waters of Europe it became a column composed for the most part of women, children, and
old men. Many of the women carried babies. The old men staggered under such goods as they could
lay their hands on in haste. The able-bodied straggled far in the rear with herds of goats,
sheep, and cattle; the air above the road rang with cries and prayers, and the road itself
was sprinkled with tears. In a word, the movement was a flight.

Corti, with his Berbers, lingered in the vicinity of the field of fight watchful of the enemy.
In the evening, having forwarded a messenger to the Emperor, he took stand at the bridge; and
well enough, for about dusk a horde of Turkish militia swept down from the heights in search
of plunder and belated victims. At the first bite of his sword, they took to their heels, and
were not again seen.

By midnight the settlements and farmhouses of the up-country were abandoned; almost the entire
district from Galata to Fanar on the Black Sea was reduced to ashes. The Greek Emperor had
no longer a frontier or a province--all that remained to him was his capital.

Many of the fugitives, under quickening of the demonstration at the bridge, threw their burdens
away; so the greater part of them at an early hour after nightfall appeared at the Adrianople
gate objects of harrowing appeal, empty-handed, broken down, miserable.

Constantine had the funeral escort met at the gate by torch-bearers, and the sextons of the
Blacherne Chapel. Intelligence of the massacre, and that the corpses of the harvesters would
be conveyed to the Hippodrome for public exposure, having been proclaimed generally through
the city, a vast multitude was also assembled at the gate. The sensation was prodigious.

There were twenty litters, each with a body upon it unwashed and in bloody garments, exactly
as brought in. On the right and left of the litters the torchmen took their places. The sextons
lit their long candles, and formed in front. Behind trudged the worn, dust-covered, wretched
fugitives; and as they failed to realize their rescue, and that they were at last in safety,
they did not abate their lamentations. When the innumerable procession passed the gate, and
commenced its laborious progress along the narrow streets, seldom, if ever, has anything of
the kind more pathetic and funereally impressive been witnessed.

Let be said what may, after all nothing shall stir the human heart like the faces of fellowmen
done to death by a common enemy. There was no misjudgment of the power of the appeal in this
instance. It is no exaggeration to say Byzantium was out assisting--so did the people throng
the thoroughfares, block the street intersections, and look down from the windows and balconies.
Afar they heard the chanting of the sextons, monotonous, yet solemnly effective; afar they
saw the swaying candles and torches; and an awful silence signalized the approach of the pageant;
but when it was up, and the bodies were borne past, especially when the ghastly countenances
of the sufferers were under eye plainly visible in the red torchlight, the outburst of grief
and rage in every form, groans, curses, prayers, was terrible, and the amazing voice, such
by unity of utterance, went with the dead, and followed after them until at last the Hippodrome
was reached. There the Emperor, on horseback, and with his court and guards, was waiting, and
his presence lent nationality to the mournful spectacle.

Conducting the bearers of the litters to the middle of the oblong area, he bade them lay their
burdens down, and summoned the city to the view.

"Let there be no haste," he said, "for, in want of their souls, the bruised bodies of our poor
countrymen shall lie here all tomorrow, every gaping wound crying for vengeance. Then on the
next day it will be for us to say what we will do--fight, fly, or surrender."

Through the remainder of the night the work of closing the gates and making them secure continued
without cessation. The guards were strengthened at each of them, and no one permitted to pass
out. Singular to say, a number of eunuchs belonging to the Sultan were caught and held. Some
of the enraged Greeks insisted on their death; but the good heart of the Emperor prevailed,
and the prisoners were escorted to their master. The embassy which went with them announced
the closing of the gates.

"Since neither oaths, nor treaty, nor submission can secure peace, pursue your impious warfare"--thus
Constantine despatched to Mahommed. "My trust is in God; if it shall please him to mollify
your heart, I shall rejoice in the change; if he delivers the city in your hands, I submit
without a murmur to his holy will. But until he shall pronounce between us, it is my duty to
live and die in defence of my people." [Footnote: Gibbon]

Mahommed answered with a formal declaration of war.

It remains to say that the bodies of the harvesters were viewed as promised. They lay in a
row near the Twisted Serpent, and the people passed them tearfully; in the night they were
taken away and buried.

Sadder still, the result did not answer the Emperor's hope. The feeling, mixed of sorrow and
rage, was loudly manifested; but it was succeeded by fear, and when the organization of companies
was attempted, the exodus was shameful. Thousands fled, leaving about one hundred thousand
behind, not to fight, but firm in the faith that Heaven would take care of the city.

After weeks of effort, five thousand Greeks took the arms offered them, and were enrolled.

CHAPTER IV

EUROPE ANSWERS THE CRY FOR HELP

A man in love, though the hero of many battles, shall be afraid in the presence of his beloved,
and it shall be easier for him to challenge an enemy than to ask her love in return.

Count Corti's eagerness to face the lion in the gallery of the Cynegion had established his
reputation in Constantinople for courage; his recent defence of the harvesters raised it yet
higher; now his name was on every tongue.

His habit of going about in armor had in the first days of his coming subjected him to criticism;
for the eyes before which he passed belonged for the most part to a generation more given to
prospecting for bezants in fields of peace than the pursuit of glory in the ruggeder fields
of war. But the custom was now accepted, and at sight of him, mounted and in glistening armor,
even the critics smiled, and showered his head with silent good wishes, or if they spoke it
was to say to each other: "Oh, that the Blessed Mother would send us more like him!" And the
Count knew he had the general favor. We somehow learn such things without their being told us.

Up in the empyrean courtly circles his relations were quite as gratifying. The Emperor made
no concealment of his partiality, and again insisted on bringing him to Blacherne.

"Your Majesty," the Count said one day, "I have no further need of my galley and its crew.
I beg you to do with them as you think best."

Constantine received the offer gratefully.

"The galley is a godsend. I will order payment for it. Duke Notaras, the Grand Admiral, will
agree with you about the price."

"If Your Majesty will permit me to have my way," the Count rejoined, "you will order the vessel
into the harbor with the fleet, and if the result of the war is with Your Majesty, the Grand
Admiral can arrange for the payment; if otherwise"--he smiled at the alternative--"I think
neither Your Majesty nor myself will have occasion for a ship."

The galley was transferred from the Bay of Julian to anchorage in the Golden Horn. That night,
speaking of the tender, the Emperor said to Phranza: "Count Corti has cast his lot with us.
As I interpret him, he does not mean to survive our defeat. See that he be charged to select
a bodyguard to accompany me in action."

"Is he to be Captain of the guard?"

"Yes."

The duty brought the Count to Blacherne. In a few days he had fifty men, including his nine
Berbers.

These circumstances made him happy. He found peace of mind also in his release from Mahommed.
Not an hour of the day passed without his silently thanking the Sultan for his magnanimity.

But no matter for rejoicing came to him like the privilege of freely attending the Princess Irene.

Not only was her reception-room open to him; whether she went to Blacherne or Sancta Sophia,
he appeared in her train. Often when the hour of prayer arrived, she invited him as one of
her household to accompany her to the apartment she had set apart for chapel exercises; and
at such times he strove to be devout, but in taking her for his pattern of conduct--as yet
he hardly knew when to arise or kneel, or cross himself--if his thoughts wandered from the
Madonna and Child to her, if sometimes he fell to making comparisons in which the Madonna suffered
as lacking beauty--nay, if not infrequently he caught himself worshipping the living woman
at the foot of the altar rather than the divinity above it, few there were who would have been
in haste to condemn him even in that day. There is nothing modern in the world's love of a lover.

By the treaty with Mahommed he was free to tell the Princess of his passion; and there were
moments in which it seemed he must cast himself at her feet and speak; but then he would be
seized with a trembling, his tongue would unaccountably refuse its office, and he would quiet
himself with the weakling's plea--another time--to-morrow, to-morrow. And always upon the passing
of the opportunity, the impulse being laid with so many of its predecessors in the graveyard
of broken resolutions--every swain afraid keeps such a graveyard--always he sallied from her
door eager for an enemy on whom to vent his vexation. "Ah," he would say, with prolonged emphasis
upon the exclamation--"if Mahommed were only at the gate! Is he never coming?"

One day he dismounted at the Princess' door, and was ushered into the reception-room by Lysander.
"I bring you good news," he said, in course of the conversation.

"What now?" she asked.

"Every sword counts. I am just from the Port of Blacherne, whither I accompanied the Grand
Equerry to assist in receiving one John Grant, who has arrived with a following of Free Lances,
mostly my own countrymen."

"Who is John Grant?"

"A German old in Eastern service; more particularly an expert in making and throwing hollow
iron balls filled with inflammable liquid. On striking, the balls burst, after which the fire
is unquenchable with water."

"Oh! our Greek fire rediscovered!"

"So he declares. His Majesty has ordered him the materials he asks, and that he go to work
to-morrow getting a store of his missiles ready. The man declares also, if His Holiness would
only proclaim a crusade against the Turks. Constantinople has not space on her walls to hold
the volunteers who would hasten to her defence. He says Genoa, Venice, all Italy, is aroused
and waiting."

"John Grant is welcome," the Princess returned; "the more so that His Holiness is slow."

Afterward, about the first of December, the Count again dismounted at her door with news.

"What is it now?" she inquired.

"Noble Princess, His Holiness has been heard from."

"At last?"

"A Legate will arrive to-morrow."

"Only a Legate! What is his name?"

"Isidore, Grand Metropolitan of Russia."

"Brings he a following?"

"No soldiers; only a suite of priests high and low."

"I see. He comes to negotiate. Alas!"

"Why alas?"

"Oh, the factions, the factions!" she exclaimed, disconsolately; then, seeing the Count still
in wonder, she added: "Know you not that Isidore, familiarly called the Cardinal, was appointed
Metropolitan of the Russian Greek Church by the Pope, and, rejected by it, was driven to refuge
in Poland? What welcome can we suppose he will receive here?"

"Is he not a Greek?"

"Yes, truly; but being a Latin Churchman, the Brotherhoods hold him an apostate. His first
demand will be to celebrate mass in Sancta Sophia. If the world were about shaking itself to
pieces, the commotion would be but little greater than the breaking of things we will then
hear. Oh, it is an ill wind which blows him to our gates!" Meantime the Hippodrome had been
converted into a Campus Martius, where at all hours of the day the newly enlisted men were
being drilled in the arms to which they were assigned; now as archers, now as slingers; now
with balistas and catapults and arquebuses; now to the small artillery especially constructed
for service on the walls. And as trade was at an end in the city, as in fact martial preparation
occupied attention to the exclusion of business in the commercial sense, the ancient site was
a centre of resort. Thither the Count hastened to work off the disheartenment into which the
comments of the Princess had thrown him.

That same week, however, he and the loyal population of Constantinople in general, were cheered
by a coming of real importance. Early one morning some vessels of war hove in sight down the
Marmora. Their flags proclaimed them Christian. Simultaneously the lookouts at Point Demetrius
reported a number of Turkish galleys plying to and fro up the Bosphorus. It was concluded that
a naval battle was imminent. The walls in the vicinity of the Point were speedily crowded with
spectators. In fact, the anxiety was great enough to draw the Emperor from his High Residence.
Not doubting the galleys were bringing him stores, possibly reinforcements, he directed his
small fleet in the Golden Horn to be ready to go to their assistance. His conjecture was right;
yet more happily the Turks made no attempt upon them. Turning into the harbor, the strangers
ran up the flags of Venice and Genoa, and never did they appear so beautiful, seen by Byzantines--never
were they more welcome. The decks were crowded with helmed men who responded vigorously to
the cheering with which they were saluted.

Constantine in person received the newcomers at the Port of Blacherne. From the wall over the
gate the Princess Irene, with an escort of noble ladies, witnessed the landing.

A knight of excellent presence stepped from a boat, and announced himself.

"I am John Justiniani of Genoa," he said, "come with two thousand companions in arms to the
succor of the most Christian Emperor Constantine. Guide me to him, I pray."

"The Emperor is here--I am he."

Justiniani kissed the hand extended to him, and returned with fervor:

"Christ and the Mother be praised! Much have I been disquieted lest we should be too late.
Your Majesty, command me."

"Duke Notaras," said the Emperor, "assist this noble gentleman and his companions. When they
are disembarked, conduct them to me. For the present I will lodge them in my residence." Then
he addressed the Genoese: "Duke Notaras, High Admiral of the Empire, will answer your every
demand. In God's name, and for the imperilled religion of our Redeeming Lord, I bid you welcome."

It seemed the waving of scarfs and white hands on the wall, and the noisy salutations of the
people present, were not agreeable to the Duke; although coldly polite, he impressed Justiniani
as an ill second to the stately but courteous Emperor.

At night there was an audience in the Very High Residence, and Justiniani assisted Phranza
in the presentation of his companions; and though the banquet which shortly succeeded the audience
may not, in the courses served or in its table splendors, have vied with those Alexis resorted
to for the dazzlement of the chiefs of the first crusade, it was not entirely wanting in such
particulars; for it has often happened, if the chronicles may be trusted, that the expiring
light of great countries has lingered longest in their festive halls, just as old families
have been known to nurture their pride in sparkling heirlooms, all else having been swept away.
The failings on this occasion, if any there were, Constantine more than amended by his engaging
demeanor. Soldier not less than Emperor, he knew to win the sympathy and devotion of soldiers.
Of his foreign guests that evening many afterwards died hardly distinguishing between him and
the Holy Cause which led them to their fate.

The table was long, and without head or foot. On one side, in the middle, the Emperor presided;
opposite him sat the Princess Irene; and on their right and left, in gallant interspersion,
other ladies, the wives and daughters of senators, nobles, and officials of the court, helped
charm the Western chivalry.

And of the guests, the names of a few have been preserved by history, together with the commands
to which they were assigned in the siege.

There was Andrew Dinia, under Duke Notaras, a captain of galleys.

There was the Venetian Contarino, intrusted with the defence of the Golden Grate.

There was Maurice Cataneo, a soldier of Genoa, commandant of the walls on the landward side
between the Golden Gate and the Gate Selimbria.

There were two brothers, gentlemen of Genoa,

Paul Bochiardi and Antonin Troilus Bochiardi, defendants of the Adrianople Gate.

There was Jerome Minotte, Bayle of Venice, charged with safe keeping the walls between the
Adrianople Gate and the Cerco Portas.

There was the artillerist, German John Grant, who, with Theodore Carystos, made sure of the
Gate Charsias.

There was Leonardo de Langasco, another Genoese, keeper of the Wood Gate.

There was Gabriel Travisan; with four hundred other Venetians, he maintained the stretch of
wall on the harbor front between Point Demetrius and the Port St. Peter.

There was Pedro Guiliani, the Spanish Consul, assigned to the guardianship of the wall on the
sea side from Point Demetrius to the Port of Julian.

There also was stout Nicholas Gudelli; with the Emperor's brother, he commanded the force in
reserve.

Now these, or the major part of them, may have been Free Lances; yet they did not await the
motion of Nicholas, the dilatory Pope, and were faithful, and to-day exemplify the saying:

   "That men may rise on stepping-stones
    Of their dead selves to higher things."

CHAPTER V

COUNT CORTI RECEIVES A FAVOR

"Gracious Princess, the Italian, Count Corti, is at the door. He prays you to hear a request
from him."

"Return, Lysander, and bring the Count."

It was early morning, with February in its last days.

The visitor's iron shoes clanked sharply on the marble floor of the reception room, and the
absence of everything like ornament in his equipment bespoke preparation for immediate hard
service.

"I hope the Mother is keeping you well," she said, presenting her hand to him.

With a fervor somewhat more marked than common, he kissed the white offering, and awaited her
bidding.

"My attendants are gone to the chapel, but I will hear you--or will you lend us your presence
at the service, and have the audience afterwards?"

"I am in armor, and my steed is at the door, and my men biding at the Adrianople Gate; wherefore,
fair Princess, if it be your pleasure, I will present my petition now."

In grave mistrust, she returned:

"God help us, Count! I doubt you have something ill to relate. Since the good Gregory fled
into exile to escape his persecutors, but more especially since Cardinal Isidore attempted
Latin mass in Sancta Sophia, and the madman Gennadius so frightened the people with his senseless
anathemas, [Footnote: The scene here alluded to by the Princess Irene is doubtless the one
so vividly described by Gibbon as having taken place in Sancta Sophia, the 12th of December,
1452, being the mass celebrated by Cardinal Isidore in an attempt to reconcile the Latin and
Greek factions.

Enumerating the consequences of the same futile effort at compromise, Von Hammer says: "Instead
of uniting for the common defence, the Greeks and Latins fled, leaving the churches empty;
the priests refused the sacrament to the dying who were not of their faith; the monks and nuns
repudiated confessors who acknowledged the henoticon (decree ordaining the reunion of the two
churches); a spirit of frenzy took possession of the convents; one religieuse, to the great
scandal of all the faithful, adopted the faith and costume of the Mussulmans, eating meat and
adoring the Prophet. Thus Lent passed." (Vol. II., p. 397.)

To the same effect we read in the Universal History of the Catholic Church (Vol. XXII., p.
103): "The religious who affected to surpass others in sanctity of life and purity of faith,
following the advice of Gennadius and their spiritual advisers, as well as that of the preachers
and laity of their party, condemned the decree of union, and anathematized those who approved
or might approve it. The common people, sallying from the monasteries, betook themselves to
the taverns; there flourishing glasses of wine, they reviled all who had consented to the union,
and drinking in honor of an image of the Mother of God, prayed her to protect and defend the
city against Mahomet, as she had formerly defended it against Chosroes and the Kagan. We will
have nothing to do with assistance from the Latins or a union with them. Far from us be the
worship of the azymites."] I have been beset with forebodings until I startle at my own thoughts.
It were gentle, did you go to your request at once."

She permitted him to lead her to an armless chair, and, standing before her, he spoke with
decision:

"Princess Irene, now that you have resolved finally to remain in the city, and abide the issue
of the siege, rightly judging it an affair determinable by God, it is but saying the truth
as I see it, that no one is more interested in what betides us from day to day than you; for
if Heaven frowns upon our efforts at defence, and there comes an assault, and we are taken,
the Conqueror, by a cruel law of war, has at disposal the property both public and private
he gains, and every living thing as well. We who fight may die the death he pleases; you--alas,
most noble and virtuous lady, my tongue refuses the words that rise to it for utterance!"

The rose tints in her cheeks faded, yet she answered: "I know what you would say, and confess
it has appalled me. Sometimes it tempts me to fly while yet I can; then I remember I am a Palaeologus.
I remember also my kinsman the Emperor is to be sustained in the trial confronting him. I remember
too the other women, high and low, who will stay and share the fortunes of their fighting husbands
and brothers. If I have less at stake than they, Count Corti, the demands of honor are more
rigorous upon me."

The count's eyes glowed with admiration, but next moment the light in them went out.

"Noble lady," he began, "I hope it will not be judged too great a familiarity to say I have
some days been troubled on your account. I have feared you might be too confident of our ability
to beat the enemy. It seems my duty to warn you of the real outlook that you may permit us
to provide for your safety while opportunities favor."

"For my flight, Count Corti?"

"Nay, Princess Irene, your retirement from the city."

She smiled at the distinction he made, but replied:

"I will hear you, Count."

"It is for you to consider, O Princess--if reports of the Sultan's preparation are true--this
assault in one feature at least will be unparalleled. The great guns for which he has been
delaying are said to be larger than ever before used against walls. They may destroy our defences
at once; they may command all the space within those defences; they may search every hiding-place;
the uncertainties they bring with them are not to be disregarded by the bravest soldier, much
less the unresisting classes.... In the next place, I think it warrantable from the mass of
rumors which has filled the month to believe the city will be assailed by a force much greater
than was ever drawn together under her walls. Suffer me to refer to them, O Princess... The
Sultan is yet at Adrianople assembling his army. Large bodies of footmen are crossing the Hellespont
at Gallipolis and the Bosphorus at Hissar; in the region of Adrianople the country is covered
with hordes of horsemen speaking all known tongues and armed with every known weapon--Cossacks
from the north, Arabs from the south, Koords and Tartars from the east, Roumanians and Slavs
from beyond the Balkans. The roads from the northwest are lined with trains bringing supplies
and siege-machinery. The cities along the shores of the Black Sea have yielded to Mahommed;
those which defied him are in ruins. An army is devastating Morea. The brother whom His Majesty
the Emperor installed ruler there is dead or a wanderer, no man can say in what parts. Assistance
cannot be expected from him. Above us, far as the sea, the bays are crowded with ships of all
classes; four hundred hostile sail have been counted from the hill-tops. And now that there
is no longer a hope of further aid from the Christians of Europe, the effect of the news upon
our garrison is dispiriting. Our garrison! Alas, Princess, with the foreigners come to our
aid, it is not sufficient to man the walls on the landward side alone."

"The picture is gloomy, Count, but if you have drawn it to shake my purpose, it is not enough.
I have put myself in the hands of the Blessed Mother. I shall stay, and be done with as God
orders."

Again the Count's face glowed with admiration.

"I thought as much, O Princess," he said warmly; "yet it seemed to me a duty to advise you
of the odds against us; and now, the duty done, I pray you hear me as graciously upon another
matter.... Last night, seeing the need of information of the enemy, I besought His Majesty
to allow me to ride toward Adrianople. He consented, and I set out immediately; but before
going, before bidding you adieu, noble Princess and dear lady, I have a prayer to offer you."

He hesitated; then plucking courage from the embarrassment of silence, went on:

"Dear lady, your resolution to stay and face the dangers of the siege and assault fills me
with alarm for your safety."

He cast himself upon his knees, and stretched his hands to her.

"Give me permission to protect you. I devote my sword to you, and the skill of my hands--my
life, my soul. Let me be your knight."

She arose, but he continued:

"Some day, deeds done for your country and religion may give me courage to speak more boldly
of what I feel and hope; but now I dare go no further than ask what you have just heard. Let
me be your protector and knight through the perils of the siege at least."

The Princess was pleased with the turn his speech had taken. She thought rapidly. A knight
in battle, foremost in the press, her name a conquering cry on his lips were but the constituents
of a right womanly ambition. She answered:

"Count Corti, I accept thy offer."

Taking the hand she extended, he kissed it reverently, and said:

"I am happy above other men. Now, O Princess, give me a favor--a glove, a scarf--something
I may wear, to prove me thy knight."

She took from her neck a net of knitted silk, pinkish in hue, and large enough for a kerchief
or waist sash.

"If I go about this gift," she said, her face deeply suffused, "in a way to provoke a smile
hereafter; if in placing it around thy neck with my own hands"--with the words, she bent over
him, and dropped the net outside the hood so the ends hung loosely down his breast--"I overstep
any rule of modesty, I pray you will not misunderstand me. I am thinking of my country, my
kinsman, of religion and God, and the service even unto noble deeds thou mayst do them. Rise,
Count Corti. In the ride before thee now, in the perils to come, thou shalt have my prayers."

The Count arose, but afraid to trust himself in further speech, he carried her hand to his
lips again, and with a simple farewell, hurried out, and mounting his horse rode at speed for
the Adrianople Gate.

Four days after, he reentered the gate, bringing a prisoner, and passing straight to the Very
High Residence, made report to the Emperor, Justiniani and Duke Notaras in council.

"I have been greatly concerned for you, Count," said Constantine; "and not merely because a
good sword can be poorly spared just now."

The imperial pleasure was unfeigned.

"Your Majesty's grace is full reward for my performance," the Count replied, and rising from
the salutation, he began his recital.

"Stay," said the Emperor, "I will have a seat brought that you may be at ease."

Corti declined: "The Arabs have a saying, Your Majesty--'A nest for a setting bird, a saddle
for a warrior.' The jaunt has but rested me, and there was barely enough danger in it.... The
Turk is an old acquaintance. I have lived with him, and been his guest in house and tent, and
as a comrade tempted Providence at his side under countless conditions, until I know his speech
and usages, himself scarcely better. My African Berbers are all Mohammedans who have performed
the Pilgrimage. One of them is a muezzin by profession; and if he can but catch sight of the
sun, he will never miss the five hours of prayer. None of them requires telling the direction
to Mecca.... I issued from Your Majesty's great gate about the third hour, and taking the road
to Adrianople, journeyed till near midday before meeting a human being. There were farms and
farmhouses on my right and left, and the fields had been planted in good season; but the growing
grain was wasted; and when I sought the houses to have speech with their tenants they were
forsaken. Twice we were driven off by the stench of bodies rotting before the doors."

"Greeks?"

"Greeks, Your Majesty.... There were wild hogs in the thickets which fled at sight of us, and
vultures devouring the corpses."

"Were there no other animals, no horses or oxen?" asked Justiniani.

"None, noble Genoese--none seen by us, and the swine were spared, I apprehend, because their
meat is prohibited to the children of Islam.... At length Hadifah, whom I have raised to be
a Sheik--Your Majesty permitting--and whose eyes discover the small things with which space
is crowded as he were a falcon making circles up near the sun--Hadifah saw a man in the reeds
hiding; and we pursued the wretch, and caught him, and he too was a Greek; and when his fright
allowed him to talk, he told us a band of strange people, the like of whom he had never seen,
attacked his hut, burned it, carried off his goats and she buffaloes; and since that hour,
five weeks gone, he had been hunting for his wife and three girl-children. God be merciful
to them! Of the Turks he could tell nothing except that now, everything of value gone, they
too had disappeared. I gave the poor man a measure of oaten cakes, and left him to his misery.
God be merciful to him also!"

"Did you not advise him to come to me?"

"Your Majesty, he was a husband and father seeking his family; with all humility, what else
is there for him to do?"

"I give your judgment credit, Count. There is nothing else."

"I rode on till night, meeting nobody, friend or foe--on through a wide district, lately inhabited,
now a wilderness. The creatures of the Sultan had passed through it, and there was fire in
their breath. We discovered a dried-up stream, and by sinking in its bed obtained water for
our horses. There, in a hollow, we spent the night.... Next morning, after an hour's ride,
we met a train of carts drawn by oxen. The groaning and creaking of the distraught wheels warned
me of the encounter before the advance guard of mounted men, quite a thousand strong, were
in view. I did not draw rein"--

"What!" cried Justiniani, astonished. "With but a company of nine?"

The Count smiled.

"I crave your pardon, gallant Captain. In my camp the night before, I prepared my Berbers for
the meeting."

"By the bones of the saints, Count Corti, thou dost confuse me the more! With such odds against
thee, what preparations were at thy command?"

"'There was never amulet like a grain of wit in a purse under thy cap.' Good Captain, the saying
is not worse of having proceeded from a Persian. I told my followers we were likely at any
moment to be overtaken by a force too strong for us to fight; but instead of running away,
we must meet them heartily, as friends enlisted in the same cause; and if they asked whence
we were, we must be sure of agreement in our reply. I was to be a Turk; they, Egyptians from
west of the Nile. We had come in by the new fortress opposite the White Castle, and were going
to the mighty Lord Mahommed in Adrianople. Beyond that, I bade them be silent, leaving the
entertainment of words to me."

The Emperor and Justiniani laughed, but Notaras asked: "If thy Berbers are Mohammedans, as
thou sayest, Count Corti, how canst thou rely on them against Mohammedans?"

"My Lord the High Admiral may not have heard of the law by which, if one Arab kills another,
the relatives of the dead man are bound to kill him, unless there be composition. So I had
merely to remind Hadifah and his companions of the Turks we slew in the field near Basch-Kegan."

Corti continued: "After parley with the captain of the advance guard, I was allowed to ride
on; and coming to the train, I found the carts freighted with military engines and tools for
digging trenches and fortifying camps. There were hundreds of them, and the drivers were a
multitude. Indeed, Your Majesty, from head to foot the caravan was miles in reach, its flanks
well guarded by groups of horsemen at convenient intervals."

This statement excited the three counsellors.

"After passing the train," the Count was at length permitted to resume, "my way was through
bodies of troops continuously--all irregulars. It must have been about three o'clock in the
afternoon when I came upon the most surprising sight. Much I doubt if ever the noble Captain
Justiniani, with all his experience, can recall anything like it.

"First there was a great company of pioneers with tools for grading the hills and levelling
the road; then on a four-wheeled carriage two men stood beating a drum; their sticks looked
like the enlarged end of a galley oar. The drum responded to their blows in rumbles like dull
thunder from distant clouds. While I sat wondering why they beat it, there came up next sixty
oxen yoked in pairs. Your Majesty can in fancy measure the space they covered. On the right
and left of each yoke strode drivers with sharpened goads, and their yelling harmonized curiously
with the thunder of the drum. The straining of the brutes was pitiful to behold. And while
I wondered yet more, a log of bronze was drawn toward me big at one end as the trunk of a great
plane tree, and so long that thirty carts chained together as one wagon, were required to support
it laid lengthwise; and to steady the piece on its rolling bed, two hundred and fifty stout
laborers kept pace with it unremittingly watchful. The movement was tedious, but at last I saw"--

"A cannon!" exclaimed the Genoese.

"Yes, noble Captain, the gun said to be the largest ever cast."

"Didst thou see any of the balls?"

"Other carts followed directly loaded with gray limestones chiselled round; and to my inquiry
what the stones were for, I was told they were bullets twelve spans in circumference, and that
the charge of powder used would cast them a mile."

The inquisitors gazed at each other mutely, and their thoughts may be gathered from the action
of the Emperor. He touched a bell on a table, and to Phranza, who answered the call, he said:
"Lord Chamberlain, have two men well skilled in the construction of walls report to me in the
morning. There is work for them which they must set about at once. I will furnish the money."
[Footnote: Before the siege by the Turks, two monks, Manuel Giagari and Neophytus of Rhodes,
were charged with repairing the walls, but they buried the sums intrusted to them for these
works; and in the pillage of the city seventy thousand pieces of gold thus advanced by the
Emperor were unearthed.--VON HAMMER, Vol. II., p. 417.]

"I have but little more of importance to engage Your Majesty's attention.... Behind the monster
cannon, two others somewhat smaller were brought up in the same careful manner. I counted seventeen
pieces all brass, the least of them exceeding in workmanship and power the best in the Hippodrome."

"Were there more?" Justiniani asked.

"Many more, brave Captain, but ancient, and unworthy mention.... The day was done when, by
sharp riding, I gained the rear of the train. At sunrise on the third day, I set out in return....
I have a prisoner whom this august council may examine with profit. He will, at least, confirm
my report."

"Who is he?"

"The captain of the advance guard."

"How came you by him?"

"Your Majesty, I induced him to ride a little way with me, and at a convenient time gave his
bridle rein to Hadifah. In his boyhood the Sheik was trained to leading camels, and he assures
me it is much easier to lead a horse."

The sally served to lighten the sombre character of the Count's report, and in the midst of
the merriment, he was dismissed. The prisoner was then brought in, and put to question; next
day the final preparation for the reception of Mahommed was begun.

With a care equal to the importance of the business, Constantine divided the walls into sections,
beginning on the landward side of the Golden Gate or Seven Towers, and ending at the Cynegion.
Of the harbor front he made one division, with the Grand Gate of Blacherne and the Acropolis
or Point Serail for termini; from Point Serail to the Seven Towers he stationed patrols and
lookouts, thinking the sea and rocks sufficient to discourage assault in that quarter.

His next care was the designation of commandants of the several divisions. The individuals
thus honored have been already mentioned; though it may be well to add how the Papal Legate,
Cardinal Isidore, doffing his frock and donning armor, voluntarily accepted chief direction
along the harbor--an example of martial gallantry which ought to have shamed the lukewarm Greeks
morosely skulking in their cells.

Shrewdly anticipating a concentration of effort against the Gate St. Romain, and its two auxiliary
towers, Bagdad and St. Romain, the former on the right hand and the latter on the left, he
assigned Justiniani to its defence.

Upon the walls, and in the towers numerously garnishing them, the gallant Emperor next brought
up his guns and machines, with profuse supplies of missiles.

Then, after flooding the immense ditch, he held a review in the Hippodrome, whence the several
detachments marched to their stations.

Riding with his captains, and viewing the walls, now gay with banners and warlike tricking,
Constantine took heart, and told how Amurath, the peerless warrior, had dashed his Janissaries
against them, and rued the day.

"Is this boy Mahommed greater than his father?" he asked.

"God knows," Isidore responded, crossing himself breast and forehead.

And well content, the cavalcade repassed the ponderous Gate St. Romain. All that could be done
had been done. There was nothing more but to wait.

CHAPTER VI

MAHOMMED AT THE GATE ST. ROMAIN

In the city April seemed to have borrowed from the delays of Mahommed; never month so slow
in coming. At last, however, its first day, dulled by a sky all clouds, and with winds from
the Balkans.

The inertness of the young Sultan was not from want of will or zeal. It took two months to
drag his guns from Adrianople; but with them the army moved, and as it moved it took possession,
or rather covered the land. At length, he too arrived, bringing, as it were, the month with
him; and then he lost no more time.

About five miles from the walls on the south or landward side, he drew his hordes together
in the likeness of a line of battle, and at a trumpet call they advanced in three bodies simultaneously.
So a tidal wave, far extending, broken, noisy, terrible, rises out of the deep, and rolls upon
a shore of stony cliffs.

Near ten o'clock in the forenoon of the sixth of April the Emperor mounted the roof of the
tower of St. Romain, mentioned as at the left of the gate bearing the same name. There were
with him Justiniani, the Cardinal Isidore, John Grant, Phranza, Theophilus Palaeologus, Duke
Notaras, and a number of inferior persons native and foreign. He had come to see all there
was to be seen of the Turks going into position.

The day was spring-like, with just enough breeze to blow the mists away.

The reader must think of the roof as an immense platform accessible by means of a wooden stairway
in the interior of the tower, and battlemented on the four sides, the merlons of stone in massive
blocks, and of a height to protect a tall man, the embrasures requiring banquettes to make
them serviceable. In arrangement somewhat like a ship's battery, there are stoutly framed arbalists
and mangonels on the platform, and behind them, with convenient spaces between, arquebuses
on tripods, cumbrous catapults, and small cannon on high axles ready for wheeling into position
between the merlons. Near each machine its munitions lie in order. Leaning against the walls
there are also spears, javelins, and long and cross bows; while over the corner next the gate
floats an imperial standard, its white field emblazoned with the immemorial Greek cross in
gold. The defenders of the tower are present; and as they are mostly Byzantines, their attitudes
betray much more than cold military respect, for they are receiving the Emperor, whom they
have been taught to regard worshipfully.

They study him, and take not a little pride in observing that, clad in steel cap-a-pie, he
in no wise suffers by comparison with the best of his attendants, not excepting Justiniani,
the renowned Genoese captain. Not more to see than be seen, the visor of his helmet is raised;
and stealing furtive glances at his countenance, noble by nature, but just now more than ordinarily
inspiring, they are better and stronger for what they read in it.

On the right and left the nearest towers obstruct the view of the walls in prolongation; but
southward the country spreads before the party a campania rolling and fertile, dotted with
trees scattered and in thin groves, and here and there an abandoned house. The tender green
of vegetation upon the slopes reminds those long familiar with them that grass is already invading
what were lately gardens and cultivated fields. Constantine makes the survey in silence, for
he knows how soon even the grass must disappear. Just beyond the flooded ditch at the foot
of the first or outward wall is a road, and next beyond the road a cemetery crowded with tombs
and tombstones, and brown and white mausolean edifices; indeed, the chronicles run not back
to a time when that marginal space was unallotted to the dead. From the far skyline the eyes
of the fated Emperor drop to the cemetery, and linger there.

Presently one of his suite calls out: "Hark! What sound is that?"

They all give attention.

"It is thunder."

"No--thunder rolls. This is a beat."

Constantine and Justiniani remembered Count Corti's description of the great drum hauled before
the artillery train of the Turks, and the former said calmly:

"They are coming."

Almost as he spoke the sunlight mildly tinting the land in the farness seemed to be troubled,
and on the tops of the remote hillocks there appeared to be giants rolling them up, as children
roll snow-balls--and the movement was toward the city.

The drum ceased not its beating or coming. Justiniani by virtue of his greater experience,
was at length able to say:

"Your Majesty, it is here in front of us; and as this Gate St. Romain marks the centre of your
defences, so that drum marks the centre of an advancing line, and regulates the movement from
wing to wing."

"It must be so, Captain; for see--there to the left--those are bodies of men."

"And now, Your Majesty, I hear trumpets."

A little later some one cried out:

"Now I hear shouting."

And another: "I see gleams of metal."

Ere long footmen and horsemen were in view, and the Byzantines, brought to the wall by thousands,
gazed and listened in nervous wonder; for look where they might over the campania, they saw
the enemy closing in upon them, and heard his shouting, and the neighing of horses, the blaring
of horns, and the palpitant beating of drums.

"By our Lady of Blacherne," said the Emperor, after a long study of the spectacle, "it is a
great multitude, reaching to the sea here on our left, and, from the noise, to the Golden Horn
on our right; none the less I am disappointed. I imagined much splendor of harness and shields
and banners, but see only blackness and dust. I cannot make out amongst them one Sultanic flag.
Tell me, most worthy John Grant--it being reported that thou hast great experience combating
with and against these hordes--tell me if this poverty of appearance is usual with them."

The sturdy German, in a jargon difficult to follow, answered: "These at our left are the scum
of Asia. They are here because they have nothing; their hope is to better their condition,
to return rich, to exchange ragged turbans for crowns, and goatskin jackets for robes of silk.
Look, Your Majesty, the tombs in front of us are well kept; to-morrow if there be one left
standing, it will have been rifled. Of the lately buried there will not be a ring on a finger
or a coin under a tongue. Oh, yes, the ghouls will look better next week! Only give them time
to convert the clothes they will strip from the dead into fresh turbans. But when the Janissaries
come Your Majesty will not be disappointed. See--their advance guard now--there on the rising
ground in front of the gate."

There was a swell of ground to the right of the gate rather than in front of it, and as the
party looked thither, a company of horsemen were seen riding slowly but in excellent order,
and the sheen of their arms and armor silvered the air about them. Immediately other companies
deployed on the right and left of the first one; then the thunderous drum ceased; whereat,
from the hordes out on the campania, brought to a sudden standstill, detachments dashed forward
at full speed, and dismounting, began digging a trench.

"Be this Sultan like or unlike his father, he is a soldier. He means to cover his army, and
at the same time enclose us from sea to harbor. To-morrow, my Lord, only high-flying hawks
can communicate with us from the outside."

This, from Justiniani to the Emperor, was scarcely noticed, for behind the deploying Janissaries,
there arose an outburst of music in deep volume, the combination of clarions and cymbals so
delightful to warriors of the East; at the same instant a yellow flag was displayed. Then old
John Grant exclaimed:

"The colors of the Silihdars! Mahommed is not far away. Nay, Your Majesty, look--the Sultan
himself!"

Through an interval of the guard, a man in chain mail shooting golden sparkles, helmed, and
with spear in hand and shield at his back, trotted forth, his steed covered with flowing cloths.
Behind him appeared a suite mixed of soldiers and civilians, the former in warlike panoply,
the latter in robes and enormous turbans. Down the slope the foremost rider led as if to knock
at the gate. On the tower the cannon were loaded, and run into the embrasures.

"Mahommed, saidst thou, John Grant?"

"Mahommed, Your Majesty."

"Then I call him rash; but as we are not ashamed of our gates and walls, let him have his look
in peace.... Hear you, men, let him look, and go in peace."

The repetition was in restraint of the eager gunners.

Further remark was cut short by a trumpet sounded at the foot of the tower. An officer peered
over the wall, and reported: "Your Majesty, a knight just issued from the gate is riding forth.
I take him to be the Italian, Count Corti."

Constantine became a spectator of what ensued.

Ordinarily the roadway from the country was carried over the deep moat in front of the Gate
St. Romain by a floor of stout timbers well balustraded at the sides, and resting on brick
piers. Of the bridge nothing now remained but a few loose planks side by side ready to be hastily
snatched from their places. To pass them afoot was a venture; yet Count Corti, when the Emperor
looked at him from the height, was making the crossing mounted, and blowing a trumpet as he went.

"Is the man mad?" asked the Emperor, in deep concern.

"Mad? No, he is challenging the Mahounds to single combat; and, my lords and gentlemen, if
he be skilful as he is bold, then, by the Three Kings of Cologne, we will see some pretty work
in pattern for the rest of us."

Thus Grant replied.

Corti made the passage safely, and in the road beyond the moat halted, and drove the staff
of his banderole firmly in the ground. A broad opening through the cemetery permitted him to
see and be seen by the Turks, scarcely a hundred yards away. Standing in his stirrups, he sounded
the trumpet again--a clear call ringing with defiance.

Mahommed gave over studying the tower and deep-sunken gate, and presently beckoned to his suite.

"What is the device on yon pennon?" he asked.

"A moon with a cross on its face."

"Say you so?"

Twice the defiance was repeated, and so long the young Sultan, sat still, his countenance unusually
grave. He recognized the Count; only he thought of him by the dearer Oriental name, Mirza.
He knew also how much more than common ambition there was in the blatant challenge--that it
was a reminder of the treaty between them, and, truly interpreted, said, in effect: "Lo, my
Lord! she is well, and for fear thou judge me unworthy of her, send thy bravest to try me."
And he hesitated--an accident might quench the high soul. Alas, then, for the Princess Irene
in the day of final assault! Who would deliver her to him? The hordes, and the machinery, all
the mighty preparation, were, in fact, less for conquest and glory than love. Sore the test
had there been one in authority to say to him: "She is thine, Lord Mahommed; thine, so thou
take her, and leave the city."

A third time the challenge was delivered, and from the walls a taunting cheer descended. Then
the son of Isfendiar, recognizing the banderole, and not yet done with chafing over his former
defeat, pushed through the throng about Mahommed, and prayed:

"O my Lord, suffer me to punish yon braggart."

Mahommed replied: "Thou hast felt his hand already, but go--I commend thee to thy houris."

He settled in his saddle smiling. The danger was not to the Count.

The arms, armor, weapons, and horse-furniture of the Moslem were identical with the Italian's;
and it being for the challenged party to determine with what the duel should be fought, whether
with axe, sword, lance or bow, the son of Isfendiar chose the latter, and made ready while
advancing. The Count was not slow in imitating him.

Each held his weapon--short for saddle service--in the left hand, the arrow in place, and the
shield on the left forearm.

No sooner had they reached the open ground in the cemetery than they commenced moving in circles,
careful to keep the enemy on the shield side at a distance of probably twenty paces. The spectators
became silent. Besides the skill which masters in such affrays should possess, they were looking
for portents of the result.

Three times the foemen encircled each other with shield guard so well kept that neither saw
an opening to attack; then the Turk discharged his arrow, intending to lodge it in the shoulder
of the other's horse, the buckling attachments of the neck mail being always more or less imperfect.
The Count interposed his shield, and shouted in Osmanli: "Out on thee, son of Isfendiar! I
am thy antagonist, not my horse. Thou shalt pay for the cowardice."

He then narrowed the circle of his movement, and spurring full speed, compelled the Turk to
turn on a pivot so reduced it was almost a halt. The exposure while taking a second shaft from
the quiver behind the right shoulder was dangerously increased. "Beware!" the Count cried again,
launching his arrow through the face opening of the hood.

The son of Isfendiar might never attain his father's Pachalik. There was not voice left him
for a groan. He reeled in his saddle, clutching the empty air, then tumbled to the earth.

The property of the dead man, his steed, arms, and armor, were lawful spoils; but without heeding
them, the Count retired to his banderole, and, amidst the shouts of the Greeks on the walls
and towers, renewed the challenge. A score of chiefs beset the Sultan for permission to engage
the insolent Gabour.

To an Arab Sheik, loudest in importunity, he said: "What has happened since yesterday to dissatisfy
thee with life?"

The Sheik raised a lance with a flexible shaft twenty feet in length, made of a cane peculiar
to the valley of the Jordan, and shaking it stoutly, replied:

"Allah, and the honor of my tribe!"

Perceiving the man's reliance in his weapon, Mahommed returned: "How many times didst thou
pray yesterday?"

"Five times, my Lord."

"And to-day?"

"Twice."

"Go, then; but as yon champion hath not a lance to put him on equality with thee, he will be
justified in taking to the sword."

The Sheik's steed was of the most precious strain of El-Hejaz; and sitting high in the saddle,
a turban of many folds on his head, a striped robe drawn close to the waist, his face thin,
coffee-colored, hawk-nosed, and lightning-eyed, he looked a king of the desert. Galloping down
on the Christian, he twirled the formidable lance dextrously, until it seemed not more than
a stalk of dried papyrus.

The Count beheld in the performance a trick of the djerid he had often practised with Mahommed.
Uncertain if the man's robe covered armor, he met him with an arrow, and seeing it fall off
harmless, tossed the bow on his back, drew sword, and put his horse in forward movement, caracoling
right and left to disturb the enemy's aim. Nothing could be more graceful than this action.

Suddenly the Sheik stopped playing, and balancing the lance overhead, point to the foe, rushed
with a shrill cry upon him. Corti's friends on the tower held their breath; even the Emperor
said: "It is too unequal. God help him!" At the last moment, however--the moment of the thrust--
changing his horse to the right, the Count laid himself flat upon its side, under cover of
his shield. The thrust, only a little less quick, passed him in the air, and before the Sheik
could recover or shorten his weapon, the trained foeman was within its sweep. In a word, the
Arab was at mercy. Riding with him side by side, hand on his shoulder, the Count shouted: "Yield
thee!"

"Dog of a Christian, never! Do thy worst."

The sword twirled once--a flash--then it descended, severing the lance in front of the owner's
grip. The fragment fell to the earth.

"Now yield thee!"

The Sheik drew rein.

"Why dost thou not kill me?"

"I have a message for thy master yonder, the Lord Mahommed."

"Speak it then."

"Tell him he is in range of the cannon on the towers, and only the Emperor's presence there
restrains the gunners. There is much need for thee to haste."

"Who art thou?"

"I am an Italian knight who, though thy Lord's enemy, hath reason to love him. Wilt thou go?"

"I will do as thou sayest."

"Alight, then. Thy horse is mine."

"For ransom?"

"No."

The Sheik dismounted grumblingly, and was walking off when the cheering of the Greeks stung
him to the soul.

"A chance--O Christian, another chance--to-day--to-morrow!"

"Deliver the message; it shall he as thy Lord may then appoint. Bestir thyself."

The Count led the prize to the banderole, and flinging the reins over it, faced the gleaming
line of Janissaries once more, trumpet at mouth. He saw the Sheik salute Mahommed; then the
attendants closed around them. "A courteous dog, by the Prophet!" said the Sultan. "In what
tongue did he speak?"

"My Lord, he might have been bred under my own tent."

The Sultan's countenance changed.

"Was there not more of his message?"

He was thinking of the Princess Irene.

"Yes, my Lord."

"Repeat it."

"He will fight me again to-day or to-morrow, as my Lord may appoint--and I want my horse. Without
him, El-Hejaz will be a widow."

A red spot appeared on Mahommed's forehead.

"Begone!" he cried angrily. "Seest thou not, O fool, that when we take the city we will recover
thy horse? Fight thou shalt not, for in that day I shall have need of thee."

Thereupon he bade them open for him, and rode slowly back up the eminence, and when he disappeared
Corti was vainly sounding his trumpet.

The two horses were led across the dismantled bridge, and into the gate.

"Heaven hath sent me a good soldier," said the Emperor to the Count, upon descending from the
tower.

Then Justiniani asked: "Why didst thou spare thy last antagonist?"

Corti answered truthfully.

"It was well done," the Genoese returned, offering his hand.

"Ay," said Constantine, cordially, "well done. But mount now, and ride with us."

"Your Majesty, a favor first.... A man is in the road dead. Let his body be placed on a bier,
and carried to his friends."

"A most Christian request! My Lord Chamberlain, attend to it."

The cavalcade betook itself then to other parts, the better to see the disposition of the Turks;
and everywhere on the landward side it was the same--troops in masses, and intrenchments in
progress. Closing the inspection at set of sun, the Emperor beheld the sea and the Bosphorus
in front of the Golden Horn covered with hundreds of sails.

"The leaguer is perfected," said the Genoese.

"And the issue with God," Constantine replied. "Let us to Hagia St. Sophia."

CHAPTER VII

THE GREAT GUN SPEAKS

The first sufficient gleam of light next morning revealed to the watchmen on the towers an
ominous spectacle. Through the night they had heard a medley of noises peculiar to a multitude
at work with all their might; now, just out of range of their own guns, they beheld a continuous
rampart of fresh earth grotesquely spotted with marbles from the cemetery.

In no previous siege of the Byzantine capital was there reference to such a preliminary step.
To the newly enlisted, viewing for the first time an enemy bodily present, it seemed like the
world being pared down to the smallest dimensions; while their associate veterans, to whom
they naturally turned for comfort, admitted an appreciable respect for the Sultan. Either he
had a wise adviser, they said, or he was himself a genius.

Noon--and still the workmen seemed inexhaustible--still the rampart grew in height--still the
hordes out on the campania multiplied, and the horizon line west of the Gate St. Romain was
lost in the increasing smoke of a vast bivouac.

Nightfall--and still the labor.

About midnight, judging by the sounds, the sentinels fancied the enemy approached nearer the
walls; and they were not mistaken. With the advent of the second morning, here and there at
intervals, ill-defined mounds of earth were seen so much in advance of the intrenched line
that, by a general order, a fire of stones and darts was opened upon them; and straightway
bodies of bowmen and slingers rushed forward, and returned the fire, seeking to cover the mound
builders. This was battle.

Noon again--and battle.

In the evening--battle.

The advantage of course was with the besieged.

The work on the mounds meanwhile continued, while the campania behind the intrenchment was
alive with a creaking of wheels burdened by machinery, and a shouting of ox-drivers; and the
veterans on the walls said the enemy was bringing up his balistas and mangonels.

The third morning showed the mounds finished, and crowned with mantelets, behind which, in
working order and well manned, every sort of engine known in sieges from Alexander to the Crusaders
was in operation. Thenceforward, it is to be observed, the battle was by no means one-sided.

In this opening there was no heat or furore of combat; it was rather the action of novices
trying their machines, or, in modern artillery parlance, finding the range. Many minutes often
intervened between shots, and as the preliminary object on the part of the besiegers was to
destroy the merlons sheltering the warders, did a stone strike either wall near the top, the
crash was saluted by cheers.

Now the foreigners defending were professionals who had graduated in all the arts of town and
castle taking. These met the successes of their antagonists with derision. "Apprentices," they
would say, "nothing but apprentices."... "See those fellows by the big springal there turning
the winch the wrong way!" ... "The turbaned sons of Satan! Have they no eyes? I'll give them
a lesson. Look!" And if the bolt fell truly, there was loud laughter on the walls.

The captains, moreover, were incessantly encouraging the raw men under them. "Two walls, and
a hundred feet of flooded ditch! There will be merry Christmas in the next century before the
Mahounds get to us at the rate they are coming. Shoot leisurely, men--leisurely. An infidel
for every bolt!"

Now on the outer wall, which was the lower of the two, and naturally first to draw the enemy's
ire, and then along the inner, the Emperor went, indifferent to danger or fatigue, and always
with words of cheer.

"The stones under our feet are honest," he would say. "The Persian came thinking to batter
them down, but after many days he fled; and search as we will, no man can lay a finger on the
face of one of them, and say, 'Here Chosroes left a scar.' So Amurath, sometimes called Murad,
this young man's father, wasted months, and the souls of his subjects without count; but when
he fled not a coping block had been disturbed in its bed. What has been will be again. God
is with us."

When the three days were spent, the Greeks under arms began to be accustomed to the usage,
and make merry of it, like the veterans.

The fourth day about noon the Emperor, returning from a round of the walls, ascended the Bagdad
tower mentioned as overlooking the Gate St. Romain on the right hand; and finding Justiniani
on the roof, he said to him: "This fighting, if it may be so called, Captain, is without heart.
But two of our people have been killed; not a stone is shaken. To me it seems the Sultan is
amusing us while preparing something more serious."

"Your Majesty," the Genoese returned, soberly, "now has Heaven given you the spirit of a soldier
and the eyes as well. Old John Grant told me within an hour that the yellow flag on the rising
ground before us denotes the Sultan's quarters in the field, and is not to be confounded with
his battle flag. It follows, I think, could we get behind the Janissaries dismounted on the
further slope of the rise, yet in position to meet a sally, we would discover the royal tent
not unwisely pitched, if, as I surmise, this gate is indeed his point of main attack. And besides
here are none of the old-time machines as elsewhere along our front; not a catapult, or bricole,
or bible--as some, with wicked facetiousness, have named a certain invention for casting huge
stones; nor have we yet heard the report of a cannon, or arquebus, or bombard, although we
know the enemy has them in numbers. Wherefore, keeping in mind the circumstance of his presence
here, the omissions satisfy me the Sultan relies on his great guns, and that, while amusing
us, as Your Majesty has said, he is mounting them. To-morrow, or perhaps next day, he will
open with them, and then"--

"What then?" Constantine asked.

"The world will have a new lesson in warfare."

The Emperor's countenance, visible under his raised visor, knit hard.

"Dear, dear God!" he said, half to himself. "If this old Christian empire should be lost through
folly of mine, who will there be to forgive me if not Thou?"

Then, seeing the Genoese observing him with surprise, he continued:

"It is a simple tale, Captain.... A Dacian, calling himself Urban, asked audience of me one
day, and being admitted, said he was an artificer of cannon; that he had plied his art in the
foundries of Germany, and from study of powder was convinced of the practicality of applying
it to guns of heavier calibre than any in use. He had discovered a composition of metals, he
said, which was his secret, and capable, when properly cast, of an immeasurable strain. Would
I furnish him the materials, and a place, with appliances for the work such as he would name,
I might collect the machines in my arsenal, and burn them or throw them into the sea. I might
even level my walls, and in their stead throw up ramparts of common earth, and by mounting
his guns upon them secure my capital against the combined powers of the world. He refused to
give me details of his processes. I asked him what reward he wanted, and he set it so high
I laughed. Thinking to sound him further, I kept him in my service a few days; but becoming
weary of his importunities, I dismissed him. I next heard of him at Adrianople. The Sultan
Mahommed entertained his propositions, built him a foundry, and tried one of his guns, with
results the fame of which is a wonder to the whole East. It was the log of bronze Count Corti
saw on the road--now it is here--and Heaven sent it to me first."

"Your Majesty," returned the Genoese, impressed by the circumstance, and the evident remorse
of the Emperor, "Heaven does not hold us accountable for errors of judgment. There is not a
monarch in Europe who would have accepted the man's terms, and it remains to be seen if Mahommed,
as yet but a callow youth, has not been cheated. But look yonder!"

As he spoke, the Janissaries in front of the gate mounted and rode forward, probably a hundred
yards, pursued by a riotous shouting and cracking of whips. Presently a train of buffaloes,
yoked and tugging laboriously at something almost too heavy for them, appeared on the swell
of earth; and there was a driver for every yoke, and every driver whirled a long stick with
a longer lash fixed to it, and howled lustily.

"It is the great gun," said Constantine. "They are putting it in position."

Justiniani spoke to the men standing by the machines: "Make ready bolt and stone."

The balistiers took to their wheels eagerly, and discharged a shower of missiles at the Janissaries
and ox-drivers.

"Too short, my men--more range."

The elevation was increased; still the bolts fell short.

"Bring forward the guns!" shouted Justiniani.

The guns were small bell-mouthed barrels of hooped iron, muzzle loading, mounted on high wheels,
and each shooting half a dozen balls of lead large as walnuts. They were carefully aimed. The
shot whistled and sang viciously.

"Higher, men!" shouted the Genoese, from a merlon. "Give the pieces their utmost range."

The Janissaries replied with a yell. The second volley also failed. Then Justiniani descended
from his perch.

"Your Majesty," he said, "to stop the planting of the gun there is nothing for us but a sally."

"We are few, they are many," was the thoughtful reply. "One of us on the wall is worth a score
of them in the field. Their gun is an experiment. Let them try it first."

The Genoese replied: "Your Majesty is right."

The Turks toiled on, backing and shifting their belabored trains, until the monster at last
threatened the city with its great black Cyclopean eye.

"The Dacian is not a bad engineer," said the Emperor.

"See, he is planting other pieces."

Thus Justiniani; for oxen in trains similar to the first one came up tugging mightily, until
by mid-afternoon on each flank of the first monster three other glistening yellow logs lay
on their carriages in a like dubious quiet, leaving no doubt that St. Romain was to be overwhelmed,
if the new agencies answered expectations.

If there was anxiety here, over the way there was impatience too fierce for control. Urban,
the Dacian, in superintendency of the preparation, was naturally disposed to be careful, so
much, in his view, depended on the right placement of the guns; but Mahommed, on foot, and
whip in hand, was intolerant, and, not scrupling to mix with the workmen, urged them vehemently,
now with threats, now with promises of reward.

"Thy beasts are snails! Give me the goad," he cried, snatching one from a driver. Then to Urban:
"Bring the powder, and a bullet, for when the sun goes down thou shalt fire the great gun.
Demur not. By the sword of Solomon, there shall be no sleep this night in yon Gabour city,
least of all in the palace they call Blacherne."

The Dacian brought his experts together. The powder in a bag was rammed home; with the help
of a stout slab, a stone ball was next rolled into the muzzle, then pushed nakedly down on
the bag. Of a truth there was need of measureless strength in the composition of the piece.
Finally the vent was primed, and a slow-match applied, after which Urban reported:

"The gun is ready, my Lord."

"Then watch the sun, and--Bismillah!--at its going down, fire.... Aim at the gate--this one
before us--and if thou hit it or a tower on either hand, I will make thee a begler-bey."

The gun-planting continued. Finally the sun paused in cloudy splendor ready to carry the day
down with it. The Sultan, from his tent of many annexes Bedouin fashion, walked to where Urban
and his assistants stood by the carriage of the larger piece.

"Fire!" he said.

Urban knelt before him.

"Will my Lord please retire?"

"Why should I retire?"

"There is danger."

Mahommed smiled haughtily.

"Is the piece trained on the gate?"

"It is; but I pray"--

"Now if thou wilt not have me believe thee a dog not less than an unbeliever, rise, and do
my bidding."

The Dacian, without more ado, put the loose end of the slow-match into a pot of live coals
near by, and when it began to spit and sputter, he cast it off. His experts fled. Only Mahommed
remained with him; and no feat of daring in battle could have won the young Padishah a name
for courage comparable to that the thousands looking on from a safe distance now gave him.

"Will my Lord walk with me a little aside? He can then see the ball going."

Mahommed accepted the suggestion.

"Look now in a line with the gate, my Lord."

The match was at last spent. A flash at the vent--a spreading white cloud--a rending of the
air--the rattle of wheels obedient to the recoil of the gun--a sound thunder in volume, but
with a crackle sharper than any thunder--and we may almost say that, with a new voice, and
an additional terror, war underwent a second birth.

Mahommed's ears endured a wrench, and for a time he heard nothing; but he was too intent following
the flight of the ball to mind whether the report of the gun died on the heights of Galata
or across the Bosphorus at Scutari. He saw the blackened sphere pass between the towers flanking
the gate, and speed on into the city--how far, or with what effect, he could not tell, nor
did he care.

Urban fell on his knees.

"Mercy, my Lord, mercy!"

"For what? That thou didst not hit the gate? Rise, man, and see if the gun is safe." And when
it was so reported, he called to Kalil, the Vizier, now come up: "Give the man a purse, and
not a lean one, for, by Allah! he is bringing Constantinople to me."

And despite the ringing in his ears, he went to his tent confident and happy. On the tower
meantime Constantine and the Genoese beheld the smoke leap forth and curtain the gun, and right
afterward they heard the huge ball go tearing past them, like an invisible meteor. Their eyes
pursued the sound--where the missile fell they could not say--they heard a crash, as if a house
midway the city had been struck--then they gazed at each other, and crossed themselves.

"There is nothing for us now but the sally," said the Emperor.

"Nothing," replied Justiniani. "We must disable the guns."

"Let us go and arrange it."

There being no indication of further firing, the two descended from the tower.

The plan of sortie agreed upon was not without ingenuity. The gate under the palace of Blacherne
called Cercoporta was to be opened in the night. [Footnote: In the basement of the palace of
Blacherne there was an underground exit, Cercoporta or gate of the Circus; but Isaac Comnenus
had walled it up in order to avoid the accomplishment of a prediction which announced that
the Emperor Frederick would enter Constantinople through it.... But before the siege by Mahommed
the exit was restored, and it was through it the Turks passed into the city.--VON HAMMER, Hist.
de l'Empire Ottoman.] Count Corti, with the body-guard mounted, was to pass out by it, and
surprise the Janissaries defending the battery. Simultaneously Justiniani should sally by the
Gate St. Romain, cross the moat temporarily bridged for the purpose, and, with the footmen
composing the force in reserve, throw himself upon the guns.

The scheme was faithfully attempted. The Count, stealing out of the ancient exit in the uncertain
light preceding the dawn, gained a position unobserved, and charged the careless Turks. By
this time it had become a general report that the net about his neck was a favor of the Princess
Irene, and his battle cry confirmed it--For God and Irene! Bursting through the half-formed
opposition, he passed to the rear of the guns, and planted his banderole at the door of Mahommed's
tent. Had his men held together, he might have returned with a royal prisoner.

While attention was thus wholly given the Count, Justiniani overthrew the guns by demolishing
the carriages. A better acquaintance with the operation known to moderns as "spiking a piece,"
would have enabled him to make the blow irreparable. The loss of Janissaries was severe; that
of the besieged trifling. The latter, foot and horse, returned by the Gate St. Romain unpursued.

Mahommed, aroused by the tumult, threw on his light armor, and rushed out in time to hear the
cry of his assailant, and pluck the banderole from its place. At sight of the moon with the
cross on its face, his wrath was uncontrollable. The Aga in command and all his assistants
were relentlessly impaled.

There were other sorties in course of the siege, but never another surprise.

CHAPTER VIII

MAHOMMED TRIES HIS GUNS AGAIN

Hardly had the bodies making the sortie retired within the gate when the Janissaries on the
eminence were trebly strengthened, and the noises in that quarter, the cracking of whips, the
shouting of ox-drivers, the hammering betokened a prodigious activity. The besieged, under
delusion that the guns had been destroyed, could not understand the enemy. Not until the second
ensuing morning was the mystery solved. The watchmen on the towers, straining to pierce the
early light, then beheld the great bronze monster remounted and gaping at them through an embrasure,
and other monsters of a like kind on either side of it, fourteen in all, similarly mounted
and defended.

The warders on the towers, in high excitement, sent for Justiniani, and he in turn despatched
a messenger to the Emperor. Together on the Bagdad tower the two discussed the outlook.

"Your Majesty," said the Genoese, much chagrined, "the apostate Dacian must be master of his
art. He has restored the cannon I overthrew."

After a time Constantine replied: "I fear we have underrated the new Sultan. Great as a father
may be, it is possible for a son to be greater."

Perceiving the Emperor was again repenting the dismissal of Urban, the Captain held his peace
until asked: "What shall we now do?"

"Your Majesty," he returned, "it is apparent our sally was a failure. We slew a number of the
infidels, and put their master--may God confound him!--to inconvenience, and nothing more.
Now he is on guard, we may not repeat our attempt. My judgment is that we let him try his armament
upon our walls. They may withstand his utmost effort."

The patience this required was not put to a long test. There was a sudden clamor of trumpets,
and the Janissaries, taking to their saddles, and breaking right and left into divisions, cleared
the battery front. Immediately a vast volume of smoke hid the whole ground, followed by a series
of explosions. Some balls passing over the defences ploughed into the city; and as definitions
of force, the sounds they made in going were awful; yet they were the least of the terrors.
Both the towers were hit, and they shook as if an earthquake were wrestling with them. The
air whitened with dust and fragments of crushed stone. The men at the machines and culverins
cowered to the floor. Constantine and the Genoese gazed at each other until the latter bethought
him, and ordered the fire returned. And it was well done, for there is nothing which shall
bring men round from fright like action.

Then, before there could be an exchange of opinion between the high parties on the tower, a
man in half armor issued from the slowly rising cloud, and walked leisurely forward. Instead
of weapons, he carried an armful of stakes, and something which had the appearance of a heavy
gavel. After a careful examination of the ground to the gate, he halted and drove a stake,
and from that point commenced zigzagging down the slope, marking each angle.

Justiniani drew nearer the Emperor, and said, in a low voice: "With new agencies come new methods.
The assault is deferred."

"Nay, Captain, our enemy must attack; otherwise he cannot make the moat passable."

"That, Your Majesty, was the practice. Now he will gain the ditch by a trench."

"With what object?"

"Under cover of the trench, he will fill the ditch."

Constantine viewed the operation with increased gravity. He could see how feasible it was to
dig a covered way under fire of the guns, making the approach and the bombardment simultaneous;
and he would have replied, but that instant a mob of laborers--so the spades and picks they
bore bespoke them--poured from the embrasure of the larger gun, and, distributing themselves
at easy working intervals along the staked line, began throwing up the earth on the side next
the city. Officers with whips accompanied and stood over them.

The engineer--if we may apply the modern term--was at length under fire of the besieged; still
he kept on; only when he exhausted his supply of stakes did he retire, leaving it inferrible
that the trench was to run through the opening in the cemetery to the bridge way before the gate.

At noon, the laborers being well sunk in the ground, the cannon again vomited fire and smoke,
and with thunderous reports launched their heavy bullets at the towers. Again the ancient piles
shook from top to base. Some of the balistiers were thrown down. The Emperor staggered under
the shock. One ball struck a few feet below a merlon of the Bagdad, and when the dust blew
away, an ugly crack was seen in the exposed face of the wall, extending below the roof.

While the inspection of damages immediately ordered is in progress, we take the liberty of
transporting the reader elsewhere, that he may see the effect of this amazing warfare on other
parties of interest in the tragedy.

Count Corti was with his guard at the foot of the tower when the first discharge of artillery
took place. He heard the loud reports and the blows of the shot which failed not their aim;
he heard also the sound of the bullets flying on into the city, and being of a quick imagination,
shuddered to think of the havoc they might inflict should they fall in a thickly inhabited
district. Then it came to him that the residence of the Princess Irene must be exposed to the
danger. Like a Christian and a lover, he, sought to allay the chill he felt by signing the
cross repeatedly, and with unction, on brow and breast. The pious performance brought no relief.
His dread increased. Finally he sent a man with a message informing the Emperor that he was
gone to see what damage the guns had done in the city.

He had not ridden far when he was made aware of the prevalence of an extraordinary excitement.
It seemed the entire population had been brought from their houses by the strange thunder,
and the appalling flight of meteoric bodies over their roofs. Men and women were running about
asking each other what had happened. At the corners he was appealed to:

"Oh, for Christ's sake, stop, and tell us if the world is coming to an end!" Arid in pity lie
answered: "Do not be so afraid, good people. It is the Turks. They are trying to scare us by
making a great noise. Go back into your houses."

"But the bullets which passed over us. What of them?"

"Where did they strike?"

"On further. God help the sufferers!"

One cry he heard so often it made an impression upon him:

"The Panagia! Tell His Majesty, as he is a Christian, to bring the Blessed Madonna from the
Chapel."

With each leap of his horse he was now nearing the alighting places of the missiles, and naturally
the multiplying signs of terror he observed, together with a growing assurance that the abode
of the Princess was in the range of danger, quickened his alarm for her. The white faces of
the women he met and passed without a word reminded him the more that she was subject to the
same peril, and in thought of her he forgot to sympathize with them.

In Byzantium one might be near a given point yet far away; so did the streets run up and down,
and here and there, their eccentricities in width and direction proving how much more accident
and whim had to do with them originally than art or science. Knowing this, the Count was not
sparing of his horse, and as his blood heated so did his fancy. If the fair Princess were unhurt,
it was scarcely possible she had escaped the universal terror. He imagined her the object of
tearful attention from her attendants. Or perhaps they had run away, and left her in keeping
of the tender Madonna of Blacherne.

At last he reached a quarter where the throng of people compelled him to slacken his gait,
then halt and dismount. It was but a few doors from the Princess'. One house--a frame, two
stories--appeared the object of interest.

"What has happened?" he asked, addressing a tall man, who stood trembling and praying to a
crucifix in his hand.

"God protect us, Sir Knight! See how clear the sky is, but a great stone--some say it was a
meteor--struck this house. There is the hole it made. Others say it was a bullet from the Turks.--Save
us, O Son of Mary!" and he fell to kissing the crucifix.

"Was anybody hurt?" the Count asked, shaking the devotee.

"Yes--two women and a child were killed.--Save us, O Son of God! Thou hast the power from the
Father."

The Count picked his way toward the house till he could get no further, so was it blocked by
a mass of women on their knees, crying, praying, and in agony of fright. There, sure enough,
was a front beaten in, exposing the wrecked interior. But who was the young woman at the door
calmly directing some men bringing out the body of one apparently dead? Her back was to him,
but the sunlight was tangled in her uncovered hair, making gold of it. Her figure was tall
and slender, and there was a marvellous grace in her action. Who was she? The Count's heart
was prophetic. He gave the bridle rein to a man near by, and holding his sword up, pushed through
the kneeling mass. He might have been more considerate in going; but he was in haste, and never
paused until at the woman's side. "God's mercy, Princess Irene!" he cried, "what dost thou
here? Are there not men to take this charge upon them?"

And in his joy at finding her safe, he fell upon his knees, and, without waiting for her to
offer the favor, took one of her hands, and carried it to his lips.

"Nay, Count Corti, is it not for me to ask what thou dost here?"

Her face was solemn, and he could hardly determine if the eyes she turned to him were not chiding;
yet they were full of humid violet light, and she permitted him to keep the hand while he replied:

"The Turk is for the time having his own way. We cannot get to him.... I came in haste to--to
see what his guns have done--or--why should I not say it? Princess, I galloped here fearing
thou wert in need of protection and help. I remembered that I was thy accepted knight."

She understood him perfectly, and, withdrawing her hand, returned: "Rise, Count Corti, thou
art in the way of these bearing the dead."

He stood aside, and the men passed him with their burden--a woman drenched in blood.

"Is this the last one?" she asked them.

"We could find no other."

"Poor creature! ... Yet God's will be done! ... Bear her to my house, and lay her with the
others." Then to the Count she said: "Come with me."

The Princess set out after the men. Immediately the women about raised a loud lamentation;
such as were nearest her cried out: "Blessings on you!" and they kissed the hem of her gown,
and followed her moaning and weeping. The body was borne into the house, and to the chapel,
and all who wished went in. Before the altar, two others were lying lifeless on improvised
biers, an elderly woman and a half-grown girl. The Lady in picture above the altar looked down
on them, as did the Holy Child in her arms; and there was much comfort to the spectators in
the look. Then, when the third victim was decently laid out, Sergius began the service for
the dead. The Count stood by the Princess, her attendants in group a little removed from them.

In the midst of the holy ministration, a sound like distant rolling thunder penetrated the
chapel. Every one present knew what it was by this time--knew at least it was not thunder--and
they cried out, and clasped each other--from their knees many fell grovelling on the floor.
Sergius' voice never wavered. Corti would have extended his arms to give the Princess support;
but she did not so much as change color; her hands holding a silver triptych remained firm.
The deadly bullets were in the air and might alight on the house; yet her mind was too steadfast,
her soul too high, her faith too exalted for alarm; and if the Count had been prone to love
her for her graces of person, now he was prompted to adore her for her courage.

Outside near by, there was a crash as of a flying solid smiting another dwelling, and, without
perceptible interval, an outcry so shrill and unintermitted it required no explanation.

The Princess was the first to speak.

"Proceed, Sergius," she said; nor might one familiar with her voice have perceived any alteration
in it from the ordinary; then to the Count again: "Let us go out; there may be others needing
my care."

At the door Corti said: "Stay, O Princess--a word, I pray."

She had only to look at his face to discover he was the subject of a fierce conflict of spirit.

"Have pity on me, I conjure you. Honor and duty call me to the gate; the Emperor may be calling
me; but how can I go, leaving you in the midst of such peril and horrors?"

"What would you have me do?"

"Fly to a place of safety."

"Where?"

"I will find a place; if not within these walls, then"--

He stopped, and his eyes, bright with passion, fell before hers; for the idea he was about
giving his tongue would be a doubly dishonorable coinage, since it included desertion of the
beleaguered city, and violation of his compact with Mahommed.

"And then?" she asked.

And love got the better of honor.

"I have a ship in the harbor, O Princess Irene, and a crew devoted to me, and I will place
you on its deck, and fly with you. Doubt not my making the sea; there are not Christians and
Mohammedans enough to stay me once my anchor is lifted, and my oars out; and on the sea freedom
lives, and we will follow the stars to Italy, and find a home."

Again he stopped, his face this time wrung with sudden anguish; then he continued:

"God forgive, and deal with me mercifully! I am mad! ... And thou, O Princess--do thou forgive
me also, and my words and weakness. Oh, if not for my sake, then for that which carried me
away! Or if thou canst not forget, pity me, pity me, and think of the wretchedness now my portion.
I had thy respect, if not thy love; now both are lost--gone after my honor. Oh! I am most miserable--miserable!"

And wringing his hands, he turned his face from her.

"Count Corti," she replied gently, "thou hast saved thyself. Let the affair rest here. I forgive
the proposal, and shall never remind thee of it. Love is madness. Return to duty; and for me"--she
hesitated--"I hold myself ready for the sacrifice to which I was born. God is fashioning it;
in His own time, and in the form He chooses, He will send it to me.... I am not afraid, and
be thou not afraid for me. My father was a hero, and he left me his spirit. I too have my duty
born within the hour--it is to share the danger of my kinsman's people, to give them my presence,
to comfort them all I can. I will show thee what thou seemest not to have credited--that a
woman can be brave as any man. I will attend the sick, the wounded, and suffering. To the dying
I will carry such consolation as I possess--all of them I can reach--and the dead shall have
ministration. My goods and values have long been held for the poor and unfortunate; now to
the same service I consecrate myself, my house, my chapel, and altar.... There is my hand in
sign of forgiveness, and that I believe thee a true knight. I will go with thee to thy horse."

He bowed his head, and silently struggling for composure, carried the hand to his lips.

"Let us go now," she said.

They went out together.

Another dwelling had been struck; fortunately it was unoccupied.

In the saddle, he stayed to say: "Thy soul, O Princess Irene, is angelic as thy face. Thou
hast devoted thyself to the suffering. Am I left out? What word wilt thou give me?"

"Be the true knight thou art, Count Corti, and come to me as before."

He rode away with a revelation; that in womanly purity and goodness there is a power and inspiration
beyond the claims of beauty.

The firing continued. Seven times that day the Turks assailed the Gate St. Romain with their
guns; and while a few of the stones discharged flew amiss into the city, there were enough
to still further terrorize the inhabitants. By night all who could had retreated to vaults,
cellars, and such hiding-places as were safe, and took up their abodes in them. In the city
but one woman went abroad without fear, and she bore bread and medicines, and dressed wounds,
and assuaged sorrows, and as a Madonna in fact divided worship with the Madonna in the chapel
up by the High Residence. Whereat Count Corti's love grew apace, though the recollection of
the near fall he had kept him humble and circumspect.

The same day, but after the second discharge of the guns, Mahommed entered the part of his
tent which, with some freedom, may be termed his office and reception-room, since it was furnished
with seats and a large table, the latter set upon a heavily tufted rug, and littered over with
maps and writing and drawing materials. Notable amongst the litter was the sword of Solomon.
Near it lay a pair of steel gauntlets elegantly gilt. One stout centre-tree, the main support
of the roof of camel's hair, appeared gayly dressed with lances, shields, arms, and armor;
and against it, strange to say, the companion of a bright red battle-flag, leant the banderole
Count Corti had planted before the door the morning of the sally. A sliding flap overhead,
managed by cords in the interior, was drawn up, admitting light and air.

The office, it may be added, communicated by gay portieres with four other apartments, each
having its separate centre-tree; one occupied by Kalil, the Vizier; one, a bed-chamber, so
to speak; one, a stable for the imperial stud; the fourth belonged to no less a person than
our ancient and mysterious acquaintance, the Prince of India.

Mahommed was in half-armor; that is, his neck, arms, and body were in chain mail, the lightest
and most flexible of the East, exquisitely gold-washed, and as respects fashion exactly like
the suit habitually affected by Count Corti. His nether limbs were clad in wide trousers of
yellow silk, drawn close at the ankles. Pointed shoes of red leather completed his equipment,
unless we may include a whip with heavy handle and long lash. Could Constantine have seen him
at the moment, he would have recognized the engineer whose performance in tracing the trench
he had witnessed with so much interest in the morning.

The Grand Chamberlain received him with the usual prostration, and in that posture waited his
pleasure.

"Bring me water. I am thirsty."

The water was brought.

"The Prince of India now."

Presently the Prince appeared in the costume peculiar to him--a cap and gown of black velvet,
loose trousers, and slippers. His hair and beard were longer than when we knew him a denizen
of Constantinople, making his figure seem more spare and old; otherwise he was unchanged. He
too prostrated himself; yet as he sank upon his knees, he gave the Sultan a quick glance, intended
doubtless to discover his temper more than his purpose.

"You may retire."

This to the Chamberlain.

Upon the disappearance of the official, Mahommed addressed the Prince, his countenance flushed,
his eyes actually sparkling.

"God is great. All things are possible to him. Who shall say no when he says yes? Who resist
when he bids strike? Salute me, and rejoice with me, O Prince. He is on my side. It was he
who spoke in the thunder of my guns. Salute me, and rejoice. Constantinople is mine! The towers
which have outlasted the ages, the walls which have mocked so many conquerors-- behold them
tottering to their fall! I will make dust of them. The city which has been a stumbling-block
to the true faith shall be converted in a night. Of the churches I will make mosques. Salute
me and rejoice! How may a soul contain itself knowing God has chosen it for such mighty things?
Rise, O Prince and rejoice with me!"

He caught up the sword of Solomon, and in a kind of ecstasy strode about flourishing it.

The Prince, arisen, replied simply: "I rejoice with my Lord;" and folding his arms across his
breast, he waited, knowing he had been summoned for something more serious than to witness
an outburst so wild--that directly this froth would disappear, as bubbles vanish from wine
just poured. The most absolute of men have their ways--this was one of Mahommed's. And behind
his composed countenance the Jew smiled, for, as he read it, the byplay was an acknowledgment
of his influence over the chosen of God.

And he was right. Suddenly Mahommed replaced the sword, and standing before him, asked abruptly:

"Tell me, have the stars fixed the day when I may assault the Gabours?"

"They have, my Lord."

"Give it to me."

The Prince returned to his apartment, and came back with a horoscope.

"This is their decision, my Lord."

In his character of Messenger of the Stars, the Prince of India dispensed with every observance
implying inferiority.

Without looking at the Signs, or at the planets in their Houses; without noticing the calculations
accompanying the chart; glancing merely at the date in the central place, Mahommed frowned,
and said:

"The twenty-ninth of May! Fifty-three days! By Allah and Mahomet arid Christ--all in one--if
by the compound the oath will derive an extra virtue--what is there to consume so much time?
In three days I will have the towers lording this gate they call St. Romain in the ditch, and
the ditch filled. In three days, I say."

"Perhaps my Lord is too sanguine--perhaps he does not sufficiently credit the skill and resources
of the enemy behind the gate--perhaps there is more to do than he has admitted into his anticipations."

Mahommed darted a look at the speaker.

"Perhaps the stars have been confidential with their messenger, and told him some of the things
wanting to be done."

"Yes, my Lord." The calmness of the Prince astonished Mahommed.

"And art thou permitted to be confidential with me?" he asked.

"My Lord must break up this collection of his guns, and plant some of them against the other
gates; say two at the Golden Gate, one at the Caligaria, and before the Selimbria and the Adrianople
two each. He will have seven left.... Nor must my Lord confine his attack to the landward side;
the weakest front of the city is the harbor front, and it must be subjected. He should carry
there at least two of his guns."

"Sword of Solomon!" cried Mahommed. "Will the stars show me a road to possession of the harbor?
Will they break the chain which defends its entrance? Will they sink or burn the enemy's fleet?"

"No; those are heroisms left for my Lord's endeavor."

"Thou dost taunt me with the impossible."

The Prince smiled.

"Is my Lord less able than the Crusaders? I know he is not too proud to be taught by them.
Once, marching upon the Holy City, they laid siege to Nicea, and after a time discovered they
could not master it without first mastering Lake Ascanius. Thereupon they hauled their ships
three leagues overland, and launched them in the lake." [Footnote: VON HAMMER, Hist. de l'Emp.
Ottoman.]

Mahommed became thoughtful.

"If my Lord does not distribute the guns; if he confines his attack to St. Romain, the enemy,
in the day of assault, can meet him at the breach with his whole garrison. More serious, if
the harbor is left to the Greeks, how can he prevent the Genoese in Galata from succoring them?
My Lord derives information from those treacherous people in the day; does he know of the intercourse
between the towns by boats in the night? If they betray one side, will they be true to the
other? My Lord, they are Christians; so are these with whom we are at war."

The Sultan sank into a seat; and satisfied with the impression he had made, the Prince wisely
allowed him his thoughts.

"It is enough!" said the former, rising. Then fixing his eye on his confederate, he asked:
"What stars told thee these things, O Prince?"

"My Lord, the firmament above is God's, and the sun and planets there are his mercifully to
our common use. But we have each of us a firmament of our own. In mine, Reason is the sun,
and of its stars I mention two--Experience and Faith. By the light of the three, I succeed;
when I refuse them, one or all, I surrender to chance."

Mahommed caught up the sword, and played with its ruby handle, turning it at angles to catch
its radiations; at length he said:

"Prince of India, thou hast spoken like a Prophet. Go call Kalil and Saganos."

CHAPTER IX

THE MADONNA TO THE RESCUE

We have given the opening of the siege of Byzantium by Mahommed with dangerous minuteness,
the danger of course being from the critic. We have posted the warders on their walls, and
over against them set the enemy in an intrenched line covering the whole landward side of the
city. We have planted Mahommed's guns, and exhibited their power, making it a certainty that
a breach in the wall must be sooner or later accomplished. We have shown the effect of the
fire of the guns, not only on the towers abutting the gate which was the main object of attack,
but on the non-combatants, the women and children, in their terror seeking safety in cellars,
vaults, and accessible underground retreats. We have carefully assembled and grouped those
of our characters who have survived to this trying time; and the reader is informed where they
are, the side with which their fortunes are cast, their present relations to each other, and
the conditions which environ them. In a word, the reader knows their several fates are upon
them, and the favors we now most earnestly pray are to be permitted to pass the daily occurrences
of the siege, and advance quickly to the end. Even battles can become monotonous in narrative.

The Sultan, we remark, adopted the suggestions of the Prince of India. He distributed his guns,
planting some of them in front of the several gates of the city. To control the harbor, he,
in modern parlance, erected a battery on a hill by Galata; then in a night, he drew a part
of his fleet, including a number of his largest vessels, from Besich-tasch on the Bosphorus
over the heights and hollows of Pera, a distance of about two leagues, and dropped them in
the Golden Horn. These Constantine attacked. Justiniani led the enterprise, but was repulsed.
A stone bullet sunk his ship, and he barely escaped with his life. Most of his companions were
drowned; those taken were pitilessly hung. Mahommed next collected great earthen jars--their
like may yet be seen in the East--and, after making them air-tight, laid a bridge upon them
out toward the single wall defending the harbor front. At the further end of this unique approach
he placed a large gun; and so destructive was the bombardment thus opened that fire-ships were
sent against the bridge and battery. But the Genoese of Galata betrayed the scheme, and it
was baffled. The prisoners captured were hanged in view of the Greeks, and in retaliation Constantine
exposed the heads of a hundred and sixty Turks from the wall.

On the landward side Mahommed was not less fortunate. The zigzag trench was completed, and
a footing obtained for his men in the moat, whence they strove to undermine the walls.

Of the lives lost during these operations no account was taken, since the hordes were the victims.
Their bodies were left as debris in the roadway so expensively constructed. Day after day the
towers Bagdad and St. Romain were more and more reduced. Immense sections of them tumbling
into the ditch were there utilized. Day after day the exchange of bullets, bolts, stones, and
arrows was incessant. The shouting in many tongues, heating of drums, and blowing of horns
not seldom continued far into the night.

The Greeks on their side bore up bravely. Old John Grant plied the assailants with his inextinguishable
fire. Constantine, in seeming always cheerful, never shirking, visited the walls; at night,
he seconded Justiniani in hastening needful repairs. Finally the steady drain upon the stores
in magazine began to tell. Provisions became scarce, and the diminution of powder threatened
to silence the culverins and arquebuses. Then the Emperor divided his time between the defences
and Sancta Sophia--between duty as a military commander, and prayer as a Christian trustful
in God. And it was noticeable that the services at which he assisted in the ancient church
were according to Latin rites; whereat the malcontents in the monasteries fell into deeper
sullenness, and refused the dying the consolation of their presence. Gennadius assumed the
authority of the absent Patriarch, and was influential as a prophet. The powerful Brotherhood
of the St. James', composed of able-bodied gentry and nobles who should have been militant
at the gates, regarded the Emperor as under ban. Notaras and Justiniani quarrelled, and the
feud spread to their respective followers.

One day, about the time the Turkish ships dropped, as it were, from the sky into the harbor,
when the store of powder was almost exhausted, and famine menaced the city, five galleys were
reported in the offing down the Marmora. About the same time the Turkish flotilla was observed
making ready for action. The hungry people crowded the wall from the Seven Towers to Point
Serail. The Emperor rode thither in haste, while Mahommed betook himself to the shore of the
sea. A naval battle ensued under the eyes of the two. [Footnote: The following is a translation
of Von Hammer's spirited account of this battle:

"The 15th of April, 1453, the Turkish fleet, of more than four hundred sails, issued from the
bay of Phidalia, and directing itself toward the mouth of the Bosphorus on the western side,
cast anchor near the two villages to-day Besich-tasch. A few days afterward five vessels appeared
in the Marmora, one belonging to the Emperor, and four to the Genoese. During the month of
March they had been unable to issue from Scio; but a favorable wind arising, they arrived before
Constantinople, all their sails unfurled. A division of the Turkish fleet, more than a hundred
and fifty in number, advanced to bar the passage of the Christian squadron and guard the entrance
to the harbor. The sky was clear, the sea tranquil, the walls crowded with spectators. The
Sultan himself was on the shore to enjoy the spectacle of a combat in which the superiority
of his fleet seemed to promise him a certain victory. But the eighteen galleys at the head
of the division, manned by inexperienced soldiers, and too low at the sides, were instantly
covered with arrows, pots of Greek fire, and a rain of stones launched by the enemy. They were
twice repulsed. The Greeks and the Genoese emulated each other in zeal. Flectanelli, captain
of the imperial galley, fought like a lion; Cataneo, Novarro, Balaneri, commanding the Genoese,
imitated his example. The Turkish ships could not row under the arrows with which the water
was covered; they fouled each other, and two took fire. At this sight Mahommed could not contain
himself; as if he would arrest the victory of the Greeks, he spurred his horse in the midst
of the ships. His officers followed him trying to reach the vessels combating only a stone's
throw away. The soldiers, excited by shame or by fear, renewed the attack, but without success,
and the five vessels, favored by a rising wind, forced a passage through the opposition, and
happily entered the harbor."] The Christian squadron made the Golden Horn, and passed triumphantly
behind the chain defending it. They brought supplies of corn and powder. The relief had the
appearance of a merciful Providence, and forthwith the fighting was renewed with increased
ardor. Kalil the Vizier exhorted Mahommed to abandon the siege.

"What, retire now? Now that the gate St. Romain is in ruins and the ditch filled?" the Sultan
cried in rage. "No, my bones to Eyoub, my soul to Eblis first. Allah sent me here to conquer."

Those around attributed his firmness, some to religious zeal, some to ambition; none of them
suspected how much the compact with Count Corti had to do with his decision.

To the lasting shame of Christian Europe, the arrival of the five galleys, and the victory
they achieved, were all of succor and cheer permitted the heroic Emperor.

But the unequal struggle wore on, and with each set of sun Mahommed's hopes replumed themselves.
From much fondling and kissing the sword of Solomon, and swearing by it, the steel communicated
itself to his will; while on the side of the besieged, failures, dissensions, watching and
labor, disparity in numbers, inferiority in arms, the ravages of death, and the neglect of
Christendom, slowly but surely invited despair.

Weeks passed thus. April went out; and now it is the twenty-third of May. On the twenty-ninth--six
days off--the stars, so we have seen, will permit an assault.

And on this day the time is verging midnight. Between the sky and the beleaguered town a pall
of clouds is hanging thick. At intervals light showers filter through the pall, and the drops
fall perpendicularly, for there is no wind. And the earth has its wrap of darkness, only over
the seven hills of the old capital it appears to be in double folds oppressively close. Darkness
and silence and vacancy, which do not require permission to enter by a gate, have possession
of the streets and houses; except that now and then a solitary figure, gliding swiftly, turns
a corner, pauses to hear, moves on again, and disappears as if it dropped a curtain behind
it. Desertion is the rule. The hush is awful. Where are the people?

To find each other friends go from cellar to cellar. There are vaults and arched passages,
crypts under churches and lordly habitations, deep, damp, mouldy, and smelling of rotten air,
sheltering families. In many districts all life is underground. Sociality, because it cannot
exist under such conditions save amongst rats and reptiles, ceased some time ago. Yet love
is not dead--thanks, O Heaven, for the divine impulse!--it has merely taken on new modes of
expression; it shows itself in tears, never in laughter; it has quit singing, it moans; and
what moments mothers are not on their knees praying, they sit crouched, and clasping their
little ones, and listen pale with fear and want. Listening is the universal habit; and the
start and exclamation with which in the day the poor creatures recognize the explosive thunder
of Mahommed's guns explain the origin of the habit.

At this particular hour of the twenty-third of May there are two notable exceptions to the
statement that darkness, silence and vacancy have possession of the streets and houses.

By a combination of streets most favorable for the purpose, a thoroughfare had come into use
along which traffic preferably drove its bulky commodities from St. Peter's on the harbor to
the Gates St. Romain and Adrianople; its greater distance between terminal points being offset
by advantages such as solidity, width and gentler grades. In one of the turns of this very
crooked way there is now a murky flush cast by flambeaux sputtering and borne in hand. On either
side one may see the fronts of houses without tenants, and in the way itself long lines of
men tugging with united effort at some cumbrous body behind them. There is no clamor. The labor
is heavy, and the laborers in earnest. Some of them wear round steel caps, but the majority
are civilians with here and there a monk, the latter by the Latin cross at his girdle an azymite.
Now and then the light flashes back from a naked torso streaming with perspiration. One man
in armor rides up and down the lines on horseback. He too is in earnest. He speaks low when
he has occasion to stop and give a direction, but his face seen in flashes of the light is
serious, and knit with purpose. The movement of the lines is slow; at times they come to a
dead stand-still. If the halt appears too long the horseman rides back and comes presently
to the black hull of a dismantled galley on rollers. The stoppages are to shift the rollers
forward. When the shifting is done, he calls out: "Make ready, men!" Whereupon every one in
the lines catches hold of a rope, and at his "Now--for love of Christ!" there follows a pull
with might, and the hull drags on.

In these later days of the siege there are two persons actively engaged in the defence who
are more wrought upon by the untowardness of the situation than any or all their associates--they
are the Emperor and Count Corti.

There should be no difficulty in divining the cause of the former's distress. It was too apparent
to him that his empire was in desperate straits; that as St. Romain underwent its daily reduction
so his remnant of State and power declined. And beholding the dissolution was very like being
an enforced witness of his own dying.

But Count Corti with the deepening of the danger only exerted himself the more. He seemed everywhere
present--now on the ruins of the towers, now in the moat, now foremost in a countermine, and
daily his recklessness increased. His feats with bow and sword amazed his friends. He became
a terror to the enemy. He never tired. No one knew when he slept. And as note was taken of
him, the question was continually on the lip, What possesses the man? He is a foreigner--this
is not his home--he has no kindred here--what can be his motive? And there were who said it
was Christian zeal; others surmised it was soldier habit; others again, that for some reason
he was disgusted with life; yet others, themselves of sordid natures, said the Emperor affected
him, and that he was striving for a great reward in promise. As in the camps of the besiegers
none knew the actual reason of Mahommed's persistence, so here the secret of the activity which
left the Count without a peer in performance and daring went without explanation.

A few--amongst them the Emperor--were aware of the meaning of the red net about the Italian's
neck--it shone so frequently through the smoke and dust of hourly conflict as to have become
a subject of general observation--yet in the common opinion he was only the lady's knight;
and his battle cry, For Christ and Irene--Now! did but confirm the opinion. Time and time again,
Mahommed beheld the doughty deeds of his rival, heard his shout, saw the flash of his blade,
sometimes near, sometimes afar, but always where the press was thickest. Strange was it that
of the two hosts he alone understood the other's inspiration? He had only to look into his
own heart, and measure the force of the passion there.

The horseman we see in charge of the removal of the galley-hulk this night of the twenty-third
of May is Count Corti. It is wanted at St. Romain. The gate is a hill of stone and mortar,
without form; the moat almost level from side to side; and Justiniani has decided upon a barricade
behind a new ditch. He will fill the hull with stones, and defend from its deck; and it must
be on the ground by break of day.

Precisely as Count Corti was bringing the galley around the turn of the thoroughfare, Constantine
was at the altar in Sancta Sophia where preparations for mass were making; that is, the priests
were changing their vestments, and the acolytes lighting the tall candles. The Emperor sat
in his chair of state just inside the brass railing, unattended except by his sword-bearer.
His hands were on his knees, his head bowed low. He was acknowledging a positive need of prayer.
The ruin at the gate was palpable; but God reigned, and might be reserving his power for a
miraculous demonstration.

The preparation was about finished when, from the entrances of the Church opposite the nave,
a shuffling of many feet was heard. The light in that quarter was weak, and some moments passed
before the Emperor perceived a small procession advancing, and arose. The garbs were of orthodox
Brotherhoods which had been most bitter in their denunciation. None of them had approached
the door of the holy house for weeks.

The imperial mind was greatly agitated by the sight. Were the brethren recanting their unpatriotic
resolutions? Had Heaven at last given them an understanding of the peril of the city? Had it
brought to them a realization of the consequences if it fell under the yoke of the Turk?--That
the whole East would then be lost to Christendom, with no date for its return? A miracle!--and
to God the glory! And without a thought of himself the devoted man walked to the gate of the
railing, and opening it, waited to receive the penitents.

Before him in front of the gate they knelt--in so far they yielded to custom.

"Brethren," he said, "this high altar has not been honored with your presence for many days.
As Basileus, I bid you welcome back, and dare urge the welcome in God's holy name. Reason instructs
me that your return is for a purpose in some manner connected with the unhappy condition in
which our city and empire, not to mention our religion, are plunged. Rise, one of you, and
tell me to what your appearance at this solemn hour is due."

A brother in gray, old and stooped, arose, and replied:

"Your Majesty, it cannot be that you are unacquainted with the traditions of ancient origin
concerning Constantinople and Hagia Sophia; forgive us, however, if we fear you are not equally
well informed of a more recent prophecy, creditably derived, we think, and presume to speak
of its terms. 'The infidels'--so the prediction runs--'will enter the city; but the instant
they arrive at the column of Constantine the Great, an angel will descend from Heaven, and
put a sword in the hands of a man of low estate seated at the foot of the column, and order
him to avenge the people of God with it. Overcome by sudden terror, the Turks will then take
to flight, and be driven, not only from the city, but to the frontier of Persia.' [Footnote:
Von Hammer.] This prediction relieves us, and all who believe in it, from fear of Mahommed
and his impious hordes, and we are grateful to Heaven for the Divine intervention. But, Your
Majesty, we think to be forgiven, if we desire the honor of the deliverance to be accounted
to the Holy Mother who has had our fathers in care for so many ages, and redeemed them miraculously
in instances within Your Majesty's knowledge. Wherefore to our purpose.... We have been deputed
by the Brotherhoods in Constantinople, united in devotion to the Most Blessed Madonna of Blacherne,
to pray your permission to take the Panagia from the Church of the Virgin of Hodegetria, where
it has been since the week of the Passover, and intrust it to the pious women of the city.
To-morrow at noon, Your Majesty consenting, they will assemble at the Acropolis, and with the
banner at their head, go in procession along the walls and to every threatened gate, never
doubting that at the sight of it the Sultan and his unbaptized hordes will be reft of breath
of body or take to flight.... This we pray of Your Majesty, that the Mother of God may in these
degenerate days have back the honor and worship accorded her by the Emperors and Greeks of
former times."

The old man ceased, and again fell upon his knees, while his associate deputies rang the space
with loud Amens.

It was well the light was dim, and the Emperor's face in shadow; it was well the posture of
the petitioners helped hide him from close study; a feeling mixed of pity, contempt, and unutterable
indignation seized him, distorting his features, and shaking his whole person. Recantation
and repentance!--Pledge of loyalty!--Offer of service at the gates and on the shattered walls!--Heaven
help him! There was no word of apology for their errors and remissness--not a syllable in acknowledgment
of his labors and services--and he about to pray God for strength to die if the need were,
as became the Emperor of a brave and noble people!

An instant he stood gazing at them--an instant of grief, shame, mortification, indignation,
all heightened by a burning sense of personal wrong. Ay, God help him!

"Bear with me a little," he said quietly, and passing the waiting priests, went and knelt upon
a step of the altar in position to lay his head upon the upper step. Minutes passed thus. The
deputies supposed him praying for the success of the morrow's display; he was in fact praying
for self-possession to answer them as his judgment of policy demanded.

At length he arose, and returned to them, and had calmness to say:

"Arise, brethren, and go in peace. The keeper of the Church will deliver the sacred banner
to the pious women. Only I insist upon a condition; if any of them are slain by the enemy,
whom you and they know to have been bred in denial of womanly virtue, scorning their own mothers
and wives, and making merchandise of their daughters--if any of them be slain, I say, then
you shall bear witness to those who sent you to me that I am innocent of the blood-guilt. Arise,
and go in peace."

They marched out of the Church as they had come in, and he proceeded with the service.

Next day about ten o'clock in the morning there was a lull in the fighting at the Gate St.
Romain. It were probably better to say the Turks for some reason rested from their work of
bringing stones, tree-trunks, earth in hand carts, and timbers wrenched from houses--everything,
in fact, which would serve to substantially fill the moat in that quarter. Then upon the highest
heap of what had been the tower of Bagdad Count Corti appeared, a black shield on his arm,
his bow in one hand, his banderole in the other.

"Have a care, have a care!" his friends halloed. "They are about firing the great gun."

Corti seemed not to hear, but deliberately planted the banderole, and blowing his trumpet three
times, drew an arrow from the quiver at his back. The gun was discharged, the bullet striking
below him. When the dust cleared away, he replied with his trumpet. Then the Turks, keeping
their distance, set up a cry. Most of the arrows shot at him fell short. Seeing their indisposition
to accept his challenge, he took seat upon a stone.

Not long then until a horseman rode out from the line of Janissaries still guarding the eminence,
and advanced down the left of the zigzag galloping.

He was in chain mail glistening like gold, but wore flowing yellow trousers, while his feet
were buried in shoe-stirrups of the royal metal. Looking over the small round black shield
on his left arm, and holding a bow in the right hand, easy in the saddle, calm, confident,
the champion slackened speed when within arrow flight, but commenced caracoling immediately.
A prolonged hoarse cry arose behind him. Of the Christians, the Count alone recognized the
salute of the Janissaries, still an utterance amongst Turkish soldiers, in literal translation:
The Padishah! Live the Padishah! The warrior was Mahommed himself!

Arising, the Count placed an arrow at the string, and shouted, "For Christ and Irene--Now!"
With the last word, he loosed the shaft.

Catching the missile lightly on his shield, Mahommed shouted back: "Allah-il-Allah!" and sent
a shaft in return. The exchange continued some minutes. In truth, the Count was not a little
proud of the enemy's performance. If there was any weakness on his part, if his clutch of the
notch at the instant of drawing the string was a trifle light, the fault was chargeable to
a passing memory. This antagonist had been his pupil. How often in the school field, practising
with blunted arrows, the two had joyously mimicked the encounter they were now holding. At
last a bolt, clanging dully, dropped from the Sultan's shield, and observing that it was black
feathered, he swung from his seat to the ground, and, shifting the horse between him and the
foe, secured the missile, and remounted.

"Allah-il-Allah!" he cried, slowly backing the charger out of range.

The Count repeated the challenge through his trumpet, and sat upon the stone again; but no
other antagonist showing himself, he at length descended from the heap.

In his tent Mahommed examined the bolt; and finding the head was of lead, he cut it open, and
extracted a scrip inscribed thus:

"To-day at noon a procession of women will appear on the walls. You may know it by the white
banner a monk will bear, with a picture of the Madonna painted on it. The Princess Irene marches
next after the banner."

Mahommed asked for the time. It was half after ten o'clock. In a few minutes the door was thronged
by mounted officers, who, upon receiving a verbal message from him, sped away fast as they
could go.

Thereupon the conflict was reopened. Indeed, it raged more fiercely than at any previous time,
the slingers and bowmen being pushed up to the outer edge of the moat, and the machines of
every kind plied over their heads. In his ignorance of the miracle expected of the Lady of
the Banner, Mahommed had a hope of deterring the extraordinary march.

Nevertheless at the appointed hour, ten o'clock, the Church of the Virgin of Hodegetria was
surrounded by nuns and monks; and presently the choir of Sancta Sophia issued from the house,
executing a solemn chant; the Emperor followed in Basilean vestments; then the Panagia appeared.

At sight of the picture of the Very Holy Virgin painted front view, the eyes upraised, the
hands in posture of prayer, the breast covered by a portrait of the Child, the heads encircled
by the usual nimbus, the mass knelt, uttering cries of adoration.

The Princess Irene, lightly veiled and attired in black, advanced, and, kissing the fringed
corners of the hallowed relic, gathered the white staying ribbons in her hands; thereupon the
monk appointed to carry it moved after the choir, and the nuns took places. And there were
tears and sighs, but not of fear. The Mother of God would now assume the deliverance of her
beloved capital. As it had been to the Avars, and later to the Russians under Askold and Dir,
it would be now to Mahommed and his ferocious hordes--all Heaven would arm to punish them.
They would not dare look at the picture twice, or if they did--well, there are many modes of
death, and it will be for the dear Mother to choose. Thus the women argued. Possibly a perception
of the failure in the defence, sharpened by a consciousness of the horrors in store for them
if the city fell by assault, turned them to this. There is no relief from despair like faith.

From the little church, the devotees of the Very Holy Virgin took their way on foot to the
southeast, chanting as they went, and as they went their number grew. Whence the accessions,
none inquired.

They first reached a flight of steps leading to the banquette or footway along the wall near
the Golden Gate. The noise of the conflict, the shouting and roar of an uncounted multitude
of men in the heat and fury of combat, not to more than mention the evidences of the conflict--arrows,
bolts, and stones in overflight and falling in remittent showers--would have dispersed them
in ordinary mood; but they were under protection--the Madonna was leading them--to be afraid
was to deny her saving grace. And then there was no shrinking on the part of the Princess Irene.
Even as she took time and song from the choir, they borrowed of her trust.

At the foot of the steps the singers turned aside to allow the Panagia to go first. The moment
of miracle was come! What form would the manifestation take? Perhaps the doors and windows
of Heaven would open for a rain of fire--perhaps the fighting angels who keep the throne of
the Father would appear with swords of lightning--perhaps the Mother and Son would show themselves.
Had they not spared and converted the Khagan of the Avars? Whatever the form, it were not becoming
to stand between the Panagia and the enemy.

The holy man carrying the ensign was trustful as the women, and he ascended the steps without
faltering. Gathering the ribbons a little more firmly in her hands, the Princess kept her place.
Up--up they were borne--Mother and Son. Then the white banner was on the height--seen first
by the Greeks keeping the wall, and in the places it discovered them, they fell upon their
faces, next by the hordes. And they--oh, a miracle, a miracle truly!--they stood still. The
bowman drawing his bow, the slinger whirling his sling, the arquebusers taking aim matches
in hand, the strong men at the winches of the mangonels, all stopped--an arresting hand fell
on them--they might have been changed to pillars of stone, so motionlessly did they stand and
look at the white apparition. Kyrie Eleison, thrice repeated, then Christie Eleison, also thrice
repeated, descended to them in the voices of women, shrilled by excitement.

And the banner moved along the wall, not swiftly as if terror had to do with its passing, but
slowly, the image turned outwardly, the Princess next it, the ribbons in her hands; after her
the choir in full chant; and then the long array of women in ecstasy of faith and triumph;
for before they were all ascended, the hordes at the edge of the moat, and those at a distance--or
rather such of them as death or wounds would permit--were retreating to their entrenchment.
Nor that merely--the arrest which had fallen at the Golden Gate extended along the front of
leaguerment from the sea to Blacherne, from Blacherne to the Acropolis.

So it happened that in advance of the display of the picture, without waiting for the Kyrie
Eleison of the glad procession, the Turks took to their defences; and through the city, from
cellar, and vault, and crypt, and darkened passage, the wonderful story flew; and there being
none to gainsay or explain it, the miracle was accepted, and the streets actually showed signs
of a quick return to their old life. Even the very timid took heart, and went about thanking
God and the Panagia Blachernitissa.

And here and there the monks passed, sleek and blithe, and complacently twirling the Greek
crosses at the whip-ends of their rosaries of polished horn buttons large as walnuts, saying:

"The danger is gone. See what it is to have faith! Had we kept on trusting the azymites, whether
Roman cardinal or apostate Emperor, a muezzin would ere long, perhaps to-morrow, be calling
to prayer from the dome of Hagia Sophia. Blessed be the Panagia! To-night let us sleep; and
then--then we will dismiss the mercenaries with their Latin tongues."

But there will be skeptics to the last hour of the last day; so is the world made of kinds
of men. Constantine and Justiniani did not disarm or lay aside their care. In unpatriotic distrust,
they kept post behind the ruins of St. Romain, and saw to it that the labor of planting the
hull of the galley for a new wall, strengthened with another ditch of dangerous depth and width,
was continued.

And they were wise; for about four o'clock in the afternoon, there was a blowing of horns on
the parapet by the monster gun, and five heralds in tunics stiff with gold embroidery, and
trousers to correspond--splendid fellows, under turbans like balloons, each with a trumpet
of shining silver--set out for the gate, preceding a stately unarmed official.

The heralds halted now and then to execute a flourish. Constantine, recognizing an envoy, sent
Justiniani and Count Corti to meet him beyond the moat, and they returned with the Sultan's
formal demand for the surrender of the city. The message was threatening and imperious. The
Emperor replied offering to pay tribute. Mahommed rejected the proposal, and announced an assault.

The retirement of the hordes at sight of the Panagia on the wall was by Mahommed's order. His
wilfulness extended to his love--he did not intend the Princess Irene should suffer harm.

CHAPTER X

THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ASSAULT

The artillery of Mahommed had been effective, though not to the same degree, elsewhere than
at St. Romain. Jerome the Italian and Leonardo di Langasco the Genoese, defending the port
of Blacherne in the lowland, had not been able to save the Xiloporta or Wood Gate on the harbor
front harmless; under pounding of the floating battery it lay in the dust, like a battered helmet.

John Grant and Theodore de Carystos looked at the green hills of Eyoub in front of the gate
Caligaria or Charsias, assigned to them, through fissures and tumbles-down which made their
hearts sore. The Bochiardi brothers, Paul and Antonin, had fared no better in their defence
of the gate Adrianople. At the gate Selimbria, Theophilus Palaeologus kept the Imperial flag
flying, but the outer faces of the towers there were in the ditch serving the uses of the enemy.
Contarino the Venetian, on the roof of the Golden Gate, was separated from the wall reaching
northward to Selimbria by a breach wide enough to admit a chariot. Gabriel Trevisan, with his
noble four hundred Venetians, kept good his grip on the harbor wall from the Acropolis to the
gate of St. Peter's. Through the incapacity or treason of Duke Notaras, the upper portion of
the Golden Horn was entirely lost to the Christians. From the Seven Towers to Galata the Ottoman
fleet held the wall facing the Marmora as a net of close meshes holds the space of water it
is to drag. In a word, the hour for assault had arrived, and from the twenty-fourth to evening
of the twenty-eighth of May Mahommed diligently prepared for the event.

The attack he reduced to a bombardment barely sufficient to deter the besiegers from systematic
repairs. The reports of his guns were but occasionally heard. At no time, however, was the
energy of the man more conspicuous. Previously his orders to chief officers in command along
the line had been despatched to them; now he bade them to personal attendance; and, as may
be fancied, the scene at his tent was orientally picturesque from sunrise to sunset. Such an
abounding of Moslem princes and princes not Moslem, of Pachas, and Beys, and Governors of Castles,
of Sheiks, and Captains of hordes without titles; such a medley of costumes, and armor, and
strange ensigns; such a forest of tall shafts flying red horse-tails; such a herding of caparisoned
steeds; such a company of trumpeters and heralds--had seldom if ever been seen. It seemed the
East from the Euphrates and Red Sea to the Caspian, and the West far as the Iron Gates of the
Danube, were there in warlike presence. Yet for the most part these selected lions of tribes
kept in separate groups and regarded each other askance, having feuds and jealousies amongst
themselves; and there was reason for their good behavior--around them, under arms, were fifteen
thousand watchful Janissaries, the flower of the Sultan's host, of whom an old chronicler has
said, Each one is a giant in stature, and the equal of ten ordinary men.

Throughout those four days but one man had place always at Mahommed's back, his confidant and
adviser--not Kalil, it is to be remarked, or Saganos, or the Mollah Kourani, or Akschem-sed-din
the Dervish.

"My Lord," the Prince of India had argued when the Sultan resolved to summon his vassal chiefs
to personal conference, "all men love splendor; pleasing the eye is an inducement to the intelligent;
exciting the astonishment of the vulgar disposes them to submit to superiority in another without
wounding their vanity. The Rajahs in my country practise this philosophy with a thorough understanding.
Having frequently to hold council with their officials, into the tent or hall of ceremony they
bring their utmost riches. The lesson is open to my Lord."

So when his leaders of men were ushered into the audience, the interior of Mahommed's tent
was extravagantly furnished, and their prostrations were at the step of a throne. Nevertheless
in consenting to the suggestion, the Sultan had insisted upon a condition.

"They shall not mistake me for something else than a warrior--a politician or a diplomatist,
for instance--or think the heaviest blow I can deal is with the tongue or a pen. Art thou hearing,
Prince?"

"I hear, my Lord."

"So, by the tomb of the Prophet--may his name be exalted!--my household, viziers and all, shall
stand at my left; but here on my right I will have my horse in panoply; and he shall bear my
mace and champ his golden bit, and be ready to tread on such of the beggars as behave unseemly."

And over the blue and yellow silken rugs of Khorassan, with which the space at the right of
the throne was spread, the horse, bitted and house led, had free range, an impressive reminder
of the master's business of life.

As they were Christians or Moslems, Mahommed addressed the vassals honored by his summons,
and admitted separately to his presence; for the same arguments might not be pleasing to both.

"I give you trust," he would say to the Christian, "and look for brave and loyal service from
you.... I shall be present with you, and as an eyewitness judge of your valor, and never had
men such incentives. The wealth of ages is in the walls before us, and it shall be yours--money,
jewels, goods and people--all yours as you can lay hands on it. I reserve only the houses and
churches. Are you poor, you may go away rich; if rich, you may be richer; for what you get
will be honorable earnings of your right hand of which none shall dispossess you--and to that
treaty I swear.... Rise now, and put your men in readiness. The stars have promised me this
city, and their promises are as the breath of the God we both adore."

Very different in style and matter were his utterances to a Moslem.

"What is that hanging from thy belt?"

"It is a sword, my Lord."

"God is God, and there is no other God--Amin! And he it was who planted iron in the earth,
and showed the miner where it was hid, and taught the armorer to give it form, and harden it,
even the blade at thy belt; for God had need of an instrument for the punishment of those who
say 'God hath partners.' ... And who are they that say 'God hath partners--a Son and his Mother'?
Here have they their stronghold; and here have we been brought to make roads through its walls,
and turn their palaces of unbelief into harems. For that thou hast thy sword, and I mine--Amin!...
It is the will of God that we despoil these Gabours of their wealth and their women; for are
they not of those of whom it is said: 'In their hearts is a disease, and God hath increased
their disease, and for them is ordained a painful punishment, because they have charged the
Prophet of God with falsehood'? That they who escape the sharpness of our swords shall be as
beggars, and slaves, and homeless wanderers--such is the punishment, and it is the judgment
of God--Amin! ... That they shall leave all they have behind them--so also hath God willed,
and I say it shall be. I swear it. And that they leave behind them is for us who were appointed
from the beginning of the world to take it; that also God wills, and I say it shall be. I swear
it. Amin! ... What if the way be perilous, as I grant it is? Is it not written: 'A soul cannot
die except by permission of God, according to a writing of God, definite as to time'? And if
a man die, is it not also written: 'Repute not those slain in God's cause to be dead; nay,
alive with God, they are provided for'? They are people of the 'right hand,' of whom it is
written: 'They shall be brought nigh God in the gardens of delight, upon inwrought couches
reclining face to face. Youths ever young shall go unto them round about with goblets and ewers,
and a cup of flowing wine; and fruits of the sort which they shall choose, and the flesh of
birds of the kind which they shall desire, and damsels with eyes like pearls laid up, we will
give them as a reward for that which they have done.' ... But the appointed time is not yet
for all of us--nay, it is for the fewest-- Amin! ... And when the will of God is done, then
for such as live, lo! over the walls yonder are gold refined and coined, and gold in vessels,
and damsels on silken couches, their cheeks like roses of Damascus, their arms whiter and cooler
than lilies, and as pearls laid up are their eyes, and their bodies sweeter than musk on the
wings of the south wind in a grove of palms. With the gold we can make gardens of delight;
and the damsels set down in the gardens, ours the fault if the promise be not made good as
it was spoken by the Prophet--'Paradise shall be brought near unto the pious, to a place not
distant from them, so they shall see it!' ... Being of those who shall 'receive their books
in the right hand,' more need not be said unto you. I only reserve for myself the houses when
you have despoiled them, and the churches. Make ready yourself and your people, and tell them
faithfully what I say, and swear to. I will come to you with final orders. Arise!" [Footnote:
For the quotations in this speech, see Selections from the Koran, by EDWARD WILLIAM LANE.]

From sunrise to sunset of the twenty-seventh Mahommed was in the saddle going with the retinue
of a conqueror from chief to chief. From each he drew a detachment to be held in reserve. One
hundred thousand men were thus detached.

"See to it," he said finally, "that you direct your main effort against the gate in front of
you.... Put the wild men in the advance. The dead will be useful in the ditch.... Have the
ladders at hand.... At the sound of my trumpets, charge.... Proclaim for me that he who is
first upon the walls shall have choice of a province. I will make him governor. God is God.
I am his servant, ordering as he has ordered."

On the twenty-eighth, he sent all the dervishes in camp to preach to the Moslems in arms; and
of such effect were their promises of pillage and Paradise that after the hour of the fifth
prayer, the multitude, in all quite two hundred and fifty thousand, abandoned themselves to
transports of fanaticism. Of their huts and booths they made heaps, and at night set fire to
them; and the tents of the Pachas and great officers being illuminated, and the ships perfecting
the blockade dressed in lights, the entrenchment from Blacherne to the Seven Towers, and the
sea thence to the Acropolis, were in a continued brilliance reaching up to the sky. Even the
campania was invaded by the dazzlement of countless bonfires.

And from the walls the besieged, if they looked, beheld the antics of the hordes; if they listened,
they heard the noise, in the distance, a prolonged, inarticulate, irregular clamor of voices,
near by, a confusion of songs and cries. At times the bray of trumpets and the roll of drums
great and small shook the air, and smothered every rival sound. And where the dervishes came,
in their passage from group to group, the excitement arose out of bounds, while their dancing
lent diablerie to the scene.

Assuredly there was enough in what they beheld to sink the spirit of the besieged, even the
boldest of them. The cry Allah-il-Allah shouted from the moat was trifling in comparison with
what they might have overheard around the bonfires.

"Why do you burn your huts?" asked a prudent officer of his men.

"Because we will not need them more. The city is for us to-morrow. The Padishah has promised
and sworn."

"Did he swear it?"

"Ay, by the bones of the Three in the Tomb of the Prophet."

At another fire, the following:

"Yes, I have chosen my palace already. It is on the hill over there in the west."

And again:

"Tell us, O son of Mousa, when we are in the town what will you look for?"

"The things I most want."

"Well, what things?"

"May the Jinn fill thy stomach with green figs for such a question of my mother's son! What
things? Two horses out of the Emperor's stable. And thou--what wilt thou put thy hand to first?"

"Oh, I have not made up my mind! I am thinking of a load of gold for my camel--enough to take
my father and his three wives to Mecca, and buy water for them from the Zem-zem. Praised be Allah!"

"Bah! Gold will be cheap."

"Yes, as bezants; but I have heard of a bucket the unbelieving Greeks use at times for mixing
wine and bread in. It is when they eat the body of their God. They say the bucket is so big
it takes six fat priests to lift it."

"It is too big. I'll gather the bezants."

"Well," said a third, with a loud Moslem oath, "keep to your gold, whether in pots or coin.
For me--for me"--

"Ha, ha!--he don't know."

"Don't I? Thou grinning son of a Hindoo ape."

"What is it, then?"

"The thing which is first in thy mind."

"Name it."

"A string of women."

"Old or young?"

"An hoo-rey-yeh is never old."

"What judgment!" sneered the other. "I will take some of the old ones as well."

"What for?"

"For slaves to wait on the young. Was it not said by a wise man, 'Sweet water in the jar is
not more precious than peace in the family'?"

Undoubtedly the evil genius of Byzantium in this peril was the Prince of India.

"My Lord," he had said, cynically, "of a truth a man brave in the day can be turned into a
quaking coward at night; you have but to present him a danger substantial enough to quicken
his imagination. These Greeks have withstood you stoutly; try them now with your power a vision
of darkness."

"How, Prince?"

"In view and hearing from the walls let the hordes kindle fires to-night. Multiply the fires,
if need be, and keep the thousands in motion about them, making a spectacle such as this generation
has not seen; then"--

The singular man stopped to laugh.

Mahommed gazed at him in silent wonder.

"Then," he continued, "so will distorted fancy do its work, that by midnight the city will
be on its knees praying to the Mother of God, and every armed man on the walls who has a wife
or daughter will think he hears himself called to for protection. Try it, my Lord, and thou
mayst whack my flesh into ribbons if by dawn the general fear have not left but a half task
for thy sword."

It was as the Jew said.

Attracted by the illumination in the sky, suggestive of something vast and terrible going on
outside the walls, and still full of faith in a miraculous deliverance, thousands hastened
to see the mercy. What an awakening was in store for them! Enemies seemed to have arisen out
of the earth--devils, not men. The world to the horizon's rim appeared oppressed with them.
Nor was it possible to misapprehend the meaning of what they beheld. "To-morrow--to-morrow"--they
whispered to each other--"God keep us!" and pouring back into the streets, they became each
a preacher of despair. Yet--marvelous to say--the monks sallied from their cells with words
of cheer.

"Have faith," they said. "See, we are not afraid. The Blessed Mother has not deserted her children.
Believe in her. She is resolved to allow the azymite Emperor to exhaust his vanity that in
the last hour he and his Latin myrmidons may not deny her the merit of the salvation. Compose
yourselves, and fear not. The angel will find the poor man at the column of Constantine."

The ordinary soul beset with fears, and sinking into hopelessness, is always ready to accept
a promise of rest. The people listened to the priestly soothsayers. Nay, the too comforting
assurance made its way to the defenders at the gates, and hundreds of them deserted their posts;
leaving the enemy to creep in from the moat, and, with hooks on long poles, actually pull down
some of the new defences.

It scarcely requires telling how these complications added weight to the cares with which the
Emperor was already overladen. Through the afternoon he sat by the open window of a room above
the Cercoporta, or sunken gate under the southern face of his High Residence, [Footnote: This
room is still to be seen. The writer once visited it. Arriving near, his Turkish cavass requested
him to wait a moment. The man then advanced alone and cautiously, and knocked at the door.
There was a conference, and a little delay; after which the cavass announced it was safe to
go in. The mystery was revealed upon entering. A half dozen steaming tubs were scattered over
the paved floor, and by each of them stood a scantily attired woman with a dirty yashmak covering
her face. The chamber which should have been very sacred if only because there the last of
the Byzantine Emperors composedly resigned himself to the inevitable, had become a filthy den
devoted to one of the most ignoble of uses. The shame is, of course, to the Greeks of Constantinople.]
watching the movements of the Turks. The subtle prophet which sometimes mercifully goes before
death had discharged its office with him. He had dismissed his last hope. Beyond peradventure
the hardest task to one pondering his fate uprisen and standing before him with all its attending
circumstances, is to make peace with himself; which is simply viewing the attractions of this
life as birds of plumage in a golden cage, and deliberately opening the door, and letting them
loose, knowing they can never return. This the purest and noblest of the imperial Greeks--the
evil times in which his race as a ruler was run prevent us from terming him the greatest--had done.

He was in armor, and his sword rested against the cheek of a window. His faithful attendants
came in occasionally, and spoke to him in low tones; but for the most part he was alone.

The view of the enemy was fair. He could see their intrenchment, and the tents and ruder quarters
behind it. He could see the standards, many of them without meaning to him, the detachments
on duty and watchful, the horsemen coming and going, and now and then a column in movement.
He could hear the shouting, and he knew the meaning of it all--the final tempest was gathering.

About four o'clock in the afternoon, Phranza entered the room, and going to his master's right
hand, was in the act of prostrating himself.

"No, my Lord," said the Emperor, reaching out to stay him, and smiling pleasantly, "let us
have done with ceremony. Thou hast been true servant to me--I testify it, God hearing--and
now I promote thee. Be as my other self. Speak to me standing. To-morrow is my end of days.
In death no man is greater than another. Tell me what thou bringest."

On his knees, the Grand Chamberlain took the steel-gloved hand nearest him, and carried it
to his lips.

"Your Majesty, no servant had ever a more considerate and loving master."

An oppressive silence followed. They were both thinking the same thought, and it was too sad
for speech.

"The duty Your Majesty charged me with this morning "--thus Phranza upon recovery of his composure--"I
attended to."

"And you found it?"

"Even as Your Majesty had warning. The Hegumens of the Brotherhoods"--

"All of them, O Phranza?"

"All of them, Your Majesty--assembled in a cloister of the Pantocrator."

"Gennadius again!"

The Emperor's hands closed, and there was an impatient twitching of his lips.

"Though why should I be astonished? Hark, my friend! I will tell thee what I have as yet spoken
to no man else. Thou knowest Kalil the Vizier has been these many years my tributary, and that
he hath done me many kindly acts, not always in his master's interest. The night of the day
our Christian ships beat the Turks the Grand Vizier sent me an account of a stormy scene in
Mahommed's tent, and advised me to beware of Gennadius. Ah, I had fancied myself prepared to
drink the cup Heaven hath in store for me, lees and all, without a murmur, but men will be
men until their second birth. It is nature! ... Oh, my Phranza, what thinkest thou the false
monk is carrying under his hood?"

"Some egg of treason, I doubt not."

"Having driven His Serenity, the pious and venerable Gregory, into exile, he aspires to succeed
him."

"The hypocrite!--the impostor!--the perjured!--He, Patriarch!" cried Phranza, with upraised eyes.

"And from whose hands thinkest thou he dreams of deriving the honor?"

"Not Your Majesty's."

The Emperor smiled faintly. "No--he regards Mahommed the Sultan a better patron, if not a better
Christian."

"Forbid it Heaven!" and Phranza crossed himself repeatedly.

"Nay, good friend, hear his scheme, then thou mayst call the forbidding powers with undeniable
reason....He undertook--so Kalil privily declared--if Mahommed would invest him with the Patriarchate,
to deliver Constantinople to him."

"By what means? He has no gate in keeping--he is not even a soldier."

"My poor Phranza! Hast thou yet to learn that perfidy is not a trait of any class? This gowned
traitor hath a key to all the gates. Hear him--I will ply the superstition of the Greeks, and
draw them from the walls with a prophecy."

Phranza was able to cry out: "Oh! that so brave a prince, so good a master should be at the
mercy of--of such a"--

"With all thy learning, I see thou lackest a word. Let it pass, let it pass--I understand thee....But
what further hast thou from the meeting?"

Phranza caught the hand again, and laid his forehead upon it while he replied: "To-night the
Brotherhoods are to go out, and renew the story of the angel, and the man at the foot of the
column of Constantine." The calmness of the Emperor was wonderful. He gazed at the Turks through
the window, and, after reflection, said tranquilly:

"I would have saved it--this old empire of our fathers; but my utmost now is to die for it--ay,
as if I were blind to its unworthiness. God's will be done, not mine!"

"Talk not of dying--O beloved Lord and master, talk not so! It is not too late for composition.
Give me your terms, and I will go with them to"--

"Nay, friend, I have done better--I have made peace with myself.... I shall be no man's slave.
There is nothing more for me--nothing except an honorable death. How sweet a grace it is that
we can put so much glory in dying! A day of Greek regeneration may come--then there may be
some to do me honor--some to find worthy lessons in my life--perchance another Emperor of Byzantium
to remember how the last of the Palaeologae accepted the will of God revealed to him in treachery
and treason.... But there is one at the door knocking as he were in haste. Let him enter."

An officer of the guard was admitted.

"Your Majesty," he said, after salutation, "the Captain Justiniani, and the Genoese, his friends,
are preparing to abandon the gates."

Constantine seized his sword, and arose.

"Tell me about it," he said, simply.

"Justiniani has the new ditch at St. Romain nearly completed, and wanting some cannon, he made
request for them of the High Admiral, who refused, saying, 'The foreign cowards must take care
of themselves.'"

"Ride, sir, to the noble Captain, and tell him I am at thy heels."

"Is the Duke mad?" Constantine continued, the messenger having departed. "What can he want?
He is rich, and hath a family--boys verging on manhood, and of excellent promise. Ah, my dear
friend in need, what canst thou see of gain for him from Mahommed?"

"Life, your Majesty--life, and greater riches."

"How? I did not suppose thou thoughtest so ill of men."

"Of some--of some--not all." Then Phranza raised his head, and asked, bitterly: "If five galleys
won the harbor, every Moslem sail opposing, why could not twelve or more do better? Does not
Mahommed draw his supplies by sea?"

The Emperor looked out of the window again, but not at the Turks.

"Lord Phranza," he said, presently, "thou mayst survive to-morrow's calamity; if so, being
as thou art skilful with the pen, write of me in thy day of leisure two things; first, I dared
not break with Duke Notaras while Mahommed was striving for my gates--he could and would have
seized my throne--the Church, the Brotherhoods, and the people are with him--I am an azymite.
Say of me next that I have always held the decree of union proclaimed by the Council of Florence
binding upon Greek conscience, and had I lived, God helping me roll back this flood of Islam,
it should have been enforced.... Hither--look hither, Lord Phranza"--he pointed out of the
window--"and thou wilt see an argument of as many divisions as there are infidels beleaguering
us why the Church of Christ should have one head; and as to whether the head should be Patriarch
or Bishop, is it not enough that we are perishing for want of Western swords?"--He would have
fallen into silence again, but roused himself: "So much for the place I would have in the world's
memory.... But to the present affair. Reparation is due Justiniani and his associates. Do thou
prepare a repast in the great dining hall. Our resources are so reduced I may not speak of
it as a banquet; but as thou lovest me do thy best with what we have. For my part, I will ride
and summon every noble Greek in arms for Church and State, and the foreign captains. In such
cheer, perhaps, we can heal the wounds inflicted by Notaras. We can at least make ready to
die with grace."

He went out, and taking horse, rode at speed to the Gate St. Romain, and succeeded in soothing
the offended Genoese.

At ten o'clock the banquet was held. The chroniclers say of it that there were speeches, embraces,
and a fresh resolution to fight, and endure the worst or conquer. And they chose a battle-cry--Christ
and Holy Church. At separating, the Emperor, with infinite tenderness, but never more knightly,
prayed forgiveness of any he might have wronged or affronted; and the guests came one by one
to bid him adieu, and he commended them to God, and the gratitude of Christians in the ages
to come, and his hands were drenched with their tears.

From the Very High Residence he visited the gates, and was partially successful in arresting
the desertions actually in progress.

Finally, all other duties done, his mind turning once more to God, he rode to Sancta Sophia,
heard mass, partook of the Communion, and received absolution according to Latin rite; after
which the morrow could hold no surprise for him. And he found comfort repeating his own word:
How sweet a grace it is that we can put so much glory in dying.

CHAPTER XI

COUNT CORTI IN DILEMMA

From the repast at Blacherne--festive it was in no sense--Count Corti escorted the Emperor
to the door of Sancta Sophia; whence, by permission, and taking with him his nine Berbers,
he rode slowly to the residence of the Princess Irene. Slowly, we say, for nowhere in the pent
area of Byzantium was there a soul more oppressed.

If he looked up, it was to fancy all the fortunate planets seated in their Houses helping Mahommed's
star to a fullest flood of splendor; if he looked down, it was to see the wager--and his soul
cried out, Lost! Lost! Though one be rich, or great, or superior in his calling, wherein is
the profit of it if he have lost his love?

Besides the anguish of a perception of his rival's better fortune, the Count was bowed by the
necessity of deciding certain consequences unforeseen at the time the wager was made. The place
of the surrender of the Princess was fixed. Thinking forward now, he could anticipate the scene
in the great church--the pack of fugitives, their terror and despair, the hordes raging amongst
them. How was he single-handed to save her unharmed in the scramble of the hour? Thoughts of
her youth, beauty, and rank, theretofore inspirations out of Heaven, set him to shivering with
an ague more like fear than any he had ever known.

Nor was this all. The surrender was by the terms to be to Mahommed himself. The Sultan was
to demand her of him. He groaned aloud: "Oh, dear God and Holy Mother, be merciful, and let
me die!" For the first time it was given him to see, not alone that he might lose the woman
to his soul all the sun is to the world, but her respect as well. By what management was he
to make the surrender without exposing the understanding between the conqueror and himself?
She would be present--she would see what took place--she would hear what was said. And she
would not be frightened. The image of the Madonna above the altar in the nave would not be
more calm. The vaguest suspicion of a compact, and she the subject, would put her upon inquiry;
then--"Oh, fool--idiot--insensate as my sword-grip!" Thus, between groans, he scourged himself.

It was late, but her home was now a hospital filled with wounded men, and she its sleepless
angel. Old Lysander admitted him.

"The Princess Irene is in the chapel."

Thus directed, the Count went thither well knowing the way.

A soldier just dead was the theme of a solemn recital by Sergius. The room was crowded with
women in the deepest excitement of fear. Corti understood the cause. Poor creatures! They had
need of religious comfort. A thousand ghosts in one view could not have overcome them as did
the approach of the morrow.

At the right of the altar, he discovered the Princess in the midst of her attendants, who kept
close to her, like young birds to the mother in alarm. She was quiet and self-contained. Apparently
she alone heard the words of the reader; and whereas the Count came in a penitent--doubtful--
in a maze--unknowing what to do or where to turn, one glance at her face restored him. He resolved
to tell her his history, omitting only the character in which he entered her kinsman's service,
and the odious compact with Mahommed. Her consent to accompany him to Sancta Sophia must be
obtained; for that he was come.

His presence in the chapel awakened a suppressed excitement, and directly the Princess came to him.

"What has happened, Count Corti? Why are you here?"

"To speak with you, O Princess Irene'

"Go with me, then."

She conducted him into a passage, and closed the door behind them.

"The floor of my reception room is overlaid with the sick and suffering-- my whole house is
given up to them. Speak here; and if the news be bad, dear Count, it were mercy not to permit
the unfortunates to hear you."

She was not thinking of herself. He took the hand extended to him, and kissed it--to him it
was the hand of more than the most beautiful woman in the world--it was the hand of a saint
in white transfigurement.

"Thy imperial kinsman, O Princess, is at the church partaking of the Holy Communion, and receiving
absolution."

"At this hour? Why is he there, Count?"

Corti told her of the repast at the palace, and recounted the scene at parting.

"It looks like despair. Can it be the Emperor is making ready to die? Answer, and fear not
for me. My life has been a long preparation. He believes the defence is lost--the captains
believe so--and thou?"

"O Princess, it is terrible saying, but I too expect the judgment of God in the morning."

The hall was so dimly lighted he could not see her face; but the nerve of sympathy is fine--he
felt she trembled. Only a moment--scarcely longer than taking a breath--then she answered:

"Judgment is for us all. It will find me here."

She moved as if to return to the chapel; but he stepped before her, and drawing out a chair
standing by the door, said, firmly, yet tenderly:

"You are weary. The labor of helping the unfortunate these many days--the watching and anxiety--have
been trying upon you. Sit, I pray, and hear me."

She yielded with a sigh.

"The judgment which would find you here, O Princes, would not be death, but something more
terrible, so terrible words burn in thinking of it. I have sworn to defend you: and the oath,
and the will to keep it, give me the right to determine where and how the defence shall be
made. If there are advantages, I want them, for your sweet sake"

He stopped to master his feeling.

"You have never stood on the deck of a ship in wreck, and seen the sea rush in to overwhelm
it," he went on presently: "I have; and I declare to you, O beloved lady, nothing can be so
like to-morrow when the hordes break into the city, as that triumph of waters; and as on the
deck there was no place of safety for the perishing crew, neither will there be place of safety
for man, woman, or child in Byzantium then--least of all for the kinswoman of the Emperor--for
her--permit me to say it--whose loveliness and virtue are themes for story-tellers throughout
the East. As a prize--whether for ransom or dishonor--richer than the churches and the palaces,
and their belongings, be they jewels or gold, or anointed crown, or bone of Saint, or splinter
of the True Cross, or shred from the shirt of Christ--to him who loves her, a prize of such
excellence that glory, even the glory Mahommed is now dreaming of when he shall have wrenched
the keys of the gates from their rightful owner dead in the bloody breach, would pale if set
beside it for comparison, and sink out of sight--think you she will not be hunted? Or that
the painted Mother above the altar, though it spoke through a miraculous halo, could save her
when found? No, no, Princess, not here, not here!... You know I love you; in an unreasoning
moment I dared tell you so; and you may think me passion-blind, and that I hung the vow to
defend you upon my soul's neck, thinking it light as this favor you were pleased to give me;
that love being a braggart, therefore I am a braggart. Let me set myself right in your opinion--your
good opinion, O Princess, for it is to me a world of such fair shining I dream of it as of
a garden in Paradise.... If you do not know how hardly I have striven in this war, send, I
pray, and ask any of the captains, or the most Christian sovereign I have just left making
his peace with God. Some of them called me mad, but I pardoned them--they did not know the
meaning of my battle-cry--'For Christ and Irene'--that I was venturing life less for Constantinople,
less for religion--I almost said, less for Christ--than for you, who are all things in one
to me, the fairest on earth, the best in Heaven.... At last, at last I am driven to admit we
may fail--that to-morrow, whether I am here or there, at your side or under the trampling,
you may be a prisoner at mercy."

At these words, of infinite anguish in utterance, the Princess shuddered, and looked up in
silent appeal.

"Attend me now. You have courage above the courage of women; therefore I may speak with plainness....
What will become of you--I give the conclusion of many wrangles with myself--what will become
of you depends upon the hands which happen to be laid on you first. O Princess, are you giving
me heed? Do you comprehend me?"

"The words concern me more than life, Count."

"I may go on then.... I have hope of saving your life and honor. You have but to do what I
advise. If you cannot trust me, further speech were idleness, and I might as well take leave
of you. Death in many forms will be abroad to-morrow--nothing so easily found."

"Count Corti," she returned, "if I hesitate pledging myself, it is not because of distrust.
I will hear you."

"It is well said, dear lady."

He stopped--a pleasant warmth was in his heart--a perception, like dim light, began breaking
through the obscurities in his mind. To this moment, in fact, he had trouble gaining his own
consent to the proposal on his tongue; it seemed so like treachery to the noble woman--so like
a cunning inveiglement to deliver her to Mahommed under the hated compact. Now suddenly the
proposal assumed another appearance--it was the best course--the best had there been no wager,
no compact, no obligation but knightly duty to her. As he proceeded, this conviction grew clearer,
bringing him ease of conscience and the subtle influence of a master arguing right. He told
her his history then, holding nothing back but the two points mentioned. Twice only she interrupted
him.

"Your mother, Count Corti--poor lady--how she has suffered! But what happiness there is in
store for her!" And again: "How wonderful the escape from the falsehoods of the Prophet! There
is no love like Christ's love unless--unless it be a mother's."

At the conclusion, her chin rested in the soft palm of her hand, and the hand, unjewelled,
was white as marble just carven, and, like the arm, a wonder of grace. Of what was she thinking?--Of
him? Had he at last made an impression upon her? What trifles serve the hope of lovers! At
length she asked:

"Then, O Count, thou wert his playmate in childhood?"

A bitter pang struck him--that pensiveness was for Mahommed--yet he answered: "I was nearest
him until he took up his father's sword."

"Is he the monster they call him?"

"To his enemies, yes--and to all in the road to his desires, yes--but to his friends there
was never such a friend."

"Has he heart to"--

The omission, rather than the question, hurt him--still he returned:

"Yes, once he really loves."

Then she appeared to awake.

"To the narrative now--Forgive my wandering."

The opportunity to return was a relief to him, and he hastened to improve it.

"I thank you for grace, O Princess, and am reminded of the pressure of time. I must to the
gate again with the Emperor.... This is my proposal. Instead of biding here to be taken by
some rapacious hordesman, go with me to Sancta Sophia, and when the Sultan comes thither--as
he certainly will--deliver yourself to him. If, before his arrival, the plunderers force the
doors of the holy house, I will stand with you, not, Princess, as Count Corti the Italian,
but Mirza the Emir and Janissary, appointed by the Sultan to guard you. My Berbers will help
the assumption."

He had spoken clearly, yet she hesitated.

"Ah," he said, "you doubt Mahommed. He will be upon honor. The glory-winners, Princess, are
those always most in awe of the judgment of the world."

Yet she sat silent.

"Or is it I who am in your doubt?"

"No, Count. But my household--my attendants--the poor creatures are trembling now--some of
them, I was about saying, are of the noblest families in Byzantium, daughters of senators and
lords of the court. I cannot desert them--no, Count Corti, not to save myself. The baseness
would be on my soul forever. They must share my fortune, or I their fate."

Still she was thinking of others!

More as a worshipper than lover, the Count replied: "I will include them in my attempt to save
you. Surely Heaven will help me, for your sake, O Princess."

"And I can plead for them with him. Count Corti, I will go with you."

The animation with which she spoke faded in an instant.

"But thou--O my friend, if thou shouldst fall?"

"Nay, let us be confident. If Heaven does not intend your escape, it would be merciful, O beloved
lady, did it place me where no report of your mischance and sorrows can reach me. Looking at
the darkest side, should I not come for you, go nevertheless to the Church. Doubt not hearing
of the entry of the Turks. Seek Mahommed, if possible, and demand his protection. Tell him,
I, Mirza the Emir, counselled you. On the other side, be ready to accompany me. Make preparation
to-night--have a chair at hand, and your household assembled--for when I come, time will be
scant.... And now, God be with you! I will not say be brave--be trustful."

She extended her hand, and he knelt, and kissed it.

"I will pray for you, Count Corti."

"Heaven will hear you."

He went out, and rejoining the Emperor, rode with him from the Church to Blacherne.

CHAPTER XII

THE ASSAULT

The bonfires of the hordes were extinguished about the time the Christian company said their
farewells after the last supper in the Very High Residence, and the hordes themselves appeared
to be at rest, leaving Night to reset her stars serenely bright over the city, the sea, and
the campania.

To the everlasting honor of that company, be it now said, they could under cover of the darkness
have betaken themselves to the ships and escaped; yet they went to their several posts. Having
laid their heads upon the breast of the fated Emperor, and pledged him their lives, there is
no account of one in craven refuge at the break of day. The Emperor's devotion seems to have
been a communicable flame.

This is the more remarkable when it is remembered that in the beginning the walls were relied
upon to offset the superiority of the enemy in numbers, while now each knight and man-at-arms
knew the vanity of that reliance--knew himself, in other words, one of scant five thousand
men--to such diminished roll had the besieged been reduced by wounds, death and desertion--who
were to muster on the ruins of the outer wall, or in the breaches of the inner, and strive
against two hundred and fifty thousand goaded by influences justly considered the most powerful
over ferocious natures--religious fanaticism and the assurance of booty without limit. The
silence into which the Turkish host was sunk did not continue a great while. The Greeks on
the landward walls became aware of a general murmur, followed shortly by a rumble at times
vibrant--so the earth complains of the beating it receives from vast bodies of men and animals
in hurried passage.

"The enemy is forming," said John Grant to his associate Carystos, the archer.

Minotle, the Venetian bayle, listening from the shattered gate of Adrianople, gave order: "Arouse
the men. The Turks are coming."

Justiniani, putting the finishing touches upon his masked repairs behind what had been the
alley or passage between the towers Bagdad and St. Romain, was called to by his lookout: "Come
up, Captain--the infidels are stirring--they seem disposed to attack."

"No," the Captain returned, after a brief observation, "they will not attack to-night--they
are getting ready."

None the less, without relieving his working parties, he placed his command in station.

At Selimbria and the Golden Gate the Christians stood to arms. So also between the gates. Then
a deep hush descended upon the mighty works-- mighty despite the slugging they had endured--and
the silence was loaded with anxiety.

For such of my readers as have held a night-watch expectant of battle at disadvantage in the
morning it will be easy putting themselves in the place of these warders at bay; they can think
their thoughts, and hear the heavy beating of their hearts; they will remember how long the
hours were, and how the monotony of the waiting gnawed at their spirits until they prayed for
action, action. On the other hand, those without the experience will wonder how men can bear
up bravely in such conditions-- and that is a wonder.

In furtherance of his plan, Mahommed drew in his irregulars, and massed them in the space between
the intrenchment and the ditch; and by bringing his machines and small guns nearer the walls,
he menaced the whole front of defence with a line amply provided with scaling ladders and mantelets.
Behind the line he stationed bodies of horsemen to arrest fugitives, and turn them back to
the fight. His reserves occupied the intrenchments. The Janissaries were retained at his quarters
opposite St. Romain.

The hordes were clever enough to see what the arrangement portended for them, and they at first
complained.

"What, grumble, do they?" Mahommed answered. "Ride, and tell them I say the first choice in
the capture belongs to the first over the walls. Theirs the fault if the city be not an empty
nest to all who come after them."

The earth in its forward movement overtook the moon just before daybreak; then in the deep
hush of expectancy and readiness, the light being sufficient to reveal to the besieged the
assault couchant below them, a long-blown flourish was sounded by the Turkish heralds from
the embrasure of the great gun.

Other trumpeters took up the signal, and in a space incredibly short it was repeated everywhere
along the line of attack. A thunder of drums broke in upon the music. Up rose the hordes, the
archers and slingers, and the ladder bearers, and forward, like a bristling wave, they rushed,
shouting every man as he pleased. In the same instant the machines and light guns were set
in operation. Never had the old walls been assailed by such a tempest of bolts, arrows, stones
and bullets--never had their echoes been awakened by an equal explosion of human voices, instruments
of martial music, and cannon. The warders were not surprised by the assault so much as by its
din and fury; and when directly the missiles struck them, thickening into an uninterrupted
pouring rain, they cowered behind the merlons, and such other shelters as they could find.

This did not last long--it was like the shiver and gasp of one plunged suddenly into icy water.
The fugitives were rallied, and brought back to their weapons, and to replying in kind; and
having no longer to shoot with care, the rabble fusing into a compact target, especially on
the outer edge of the ditch, not a shaft, or bolt, or stone, or ball from culverin went amiss.
Afterwhile, their blood warming with the work, and the dawn breaking, they could see their
advantage of position, and the awful havoc they were playing; then they too knew the delight
in killing which more than anything else proves man the most ferocious of brutes.

The movement of the hordes was not a dash wholly without system--such an inference would be
a great mistake. There was no pretence of alignment or order--there never is in such attacks--forlorn
hopes, receiving the signal, rush on, each individual to his own endeavor; here, nevertheless,
the Pachas and Beys directed the assault, permitting no blind waste of effort. They hurled
their mobs at none but the weak places--here a breach, there a dismantled gate.

Thousands were pushed headlong into the moat. The ladders then passed down to such of them
as had footing were heavy, but they were caught willingly; if too short, were spliced; once
planted so as to bring the coping of the wall in reach, they swarmed with eager adventurers,
who, holding their shields and pikes overhead, climbed as best they could. Those below cheered
their comrades above, and even pushed them up.

"The spoils--think of the spoils--the gold, the women!... Allah-il-Allah!... Up, up--it is
the way to Paradise!"

Darts and javelins literally cast the climbers in a thickened shade. Sometimes a ponderous
stone plunging down cleaned a ladder from top to bottom; sometimes, waiting until the rounds
were filled, the besieged applied levers, and swung a score and more off helpless and shrieking.
No matter--Allah-il-Allah! The living were swift to restore and attempt the fatal ascents.

Every one dead and every one wounded became a serviceable clod; rapidly as the dump and cumber
of humanity filled the moat the ladders extended their upward reach; while drum-beat, battle-cry,
trumpet's blare, and the roar of cannon answering cannon blent into one steady all-smothering
sound.

In the stretches of space between gates, where the walls and towers were intact, the strife
of the archers and slingers was to keep the Greeks occupied, lest they should reenforce the
defenders hard pressed elsewhere.

During the night the blockading vessels had been warped close into the shore, and, the wall
of the seafront being lower than those on the land side, the crews, by means of platforms erected
on the decks, engaged the besieged from a better level. There also, though attempts at escalade
were frequent, the object was chiefly to hold the garrison in place.

In the harbor, particularly at the Wood Gate, already mentioned as battered out of semblance
to itself by the large gun on the floating battery, the Turks exerted themselves to effect
a landing; but the Christian fleet interposed, and there was a naval battle of varying fortune.

So, speaking generally, the city was wrapped in assault; and when the sun at last rode up into
the clear sky above the Asiatic heights, streets, houses, palaces, churches--the hills, in
fact, from the sea to the Tower of Isaac--were shrouded in ominous vapor, through which such
of the people as dared go abroad flitted pale and trembling; or if they spoke to each other,
it was to ask in husky voices, What have you from the gates?

Passing now to the leading actors in this terrible tragedy. Mahommed retired to his couch early
the night previous. He knew his orders were in course of execution by chiefs who, on their
part, knew the consequences of failure. The example made of the Admiral in command of the fleet
the day the five relieving Christian galleys won the port was fresh in memory. [Footnote: He
was stretched on the ground and whipped like a common malefactor.]

"To-morrow, to-morrow," he kept repeating, while his pages took off his armor, and laid the
pieces aside. "To-morrow, to-morrow," lingered in his thoughts, when, his limbs stretched out
comfortably on the broad bronze cot which served him for couch, sleep crept in as to a tired
child, and laid its finger of forgetfulness upon his eyelids. The repetition was as when we
run through the verse of a cheerful song, thinking it out silently, and then recite the chorus
aloud. Once he awoke, and, sitting up, listened. The mighty host which had its life by his
permission was quiet--even the horses in their apartment seemed mindful that the hour was sacred
to their master. Falling to sleep again, he muttered: "To-morrow, to-morrow--Irene and glory.
I have the promise of the stars."

To Mahommed the morrow was obviously but a holiday which was bringing him the kingly part in
a joyous game--a holiday too slow in coming.

About the third hour after midnight he was again awakened. A man stood by his cot imperfectly
shading the light of a lamp with his hand.

"Prince of India!" exclaimed Mahommed, rising to a sitting posture.

"It is I, my Lord."

"What time is it?"

The Prince gave him the hour.

