XXXII.--THE FIGHT AT THE FORD

XXXIII.--THE FAMILIES ARE COMING

XXXIV.--A MATTER OF FRIENDSHIP

XXXV.--GEE--WHOA--HAW!

XXXVI.--TWO LOVE LETTERS

XXXVII.--JIM BRIDGER FORGETS

XXXVIII.--WHEN THE ROCKIES FELL

XXXIX.--THE CROSSING

XL.--OREGON! OREGON!

XLI.--THE SECRETS OF THE SIERRAS

XLII.--KIT CARSON RIDES

XLIII.--THE KILLER KILLED

XLIV.--YET IF LOVE LACK

XLV.--THE LIGHT OF THE WHOLE WORLD

The

COVERED WAGON

CHAPTER I

YOUTH MARCHES

"Look at 'em come, Jesse! More and more! Must be forty or fifty families."

Molly Wingate, middle-aged, portly, dark browed and strong, stood at the door of the rude tent
which for the time made her home. She was pointing down the road which lay like an écru ribbon
thrown down across the prairie grass, bordered beyond by the timber-grown bluffs of the Missouri.

Jesse Wingate allowed his team of harness-marked horses to continue their eager drinking at
the watering hole of the little stream near which the camp was pitched until, their thirst
quenched, they began burying their muzzles and blowing into the water in sensuous enjoyment.
He stood, a strong and tall man of perhaps forty-five years, of keen blue eye and short, close-matted,
tawny beard. His garb was the loose dress of the outlying settler of the Western lands three-quarters
of a century ago. A farmer he must have been back home.

Could this encampment, on the very front of the American civilization, now be called a home?
Beyond the prairie road could be seen a double furrow of jet-black glistening sod, framing
the green grass and its spangling flowers, first browsing of the plow on virgin soil. It might
have been the opening of a farm. But if so, why the crude bivouac? Why the gear of travelers?
Why the massed arklike wagons, the scores of morning fires lifting lazy blue wreaths of smoke
against the morning mists?

The truth was that Jesse Wingate, earlier and impatient on the front, out of the very suppression
of energy, had been trying his plow in the first white furrows beyond the Missouri in the great
year of 1848. Four hundred other near-by plows alike were avid for the soil of Oregon; as witness
this long line of newcomers, late at the frontier rendezvous.

"It's the Liberty wagons from down river," said the campmaster at length. "Missouri movers
and settlers from lower Illinois. It's time. We can't lie here much longer waiting for Missouri
or Illinois, either. The grass is up."

"Well, we'd have to wait for Molly to end her spring term, teaching in Clay School, in Liberty,"
rejoined his wife, "else why'd we send her there to graduate? Twelve dollars a month, cash
money, ain't to be sneezed at."

"No; nor is two thousand miles of trail between here and Oregon, before snow, to be sneezed
at, either. If Molly ain't with those wagons I'll send Jed over for her to-day. If I'm going
to be captain I can't hold the people here on the river any longer, with May already begun."

"She'll be here to-day," asserted his wife. "She said she would. Besides, I think that's her
riding a little one side the road now. Not that I know who all is with her. One young man--two.
Well"--with maternal pride--"Molly ain't never lacked for beaus!

"But look at the wagons come!" she added. "All the country's going West this spring, it certainly
seems like."

It was the spring gathering of the west-bound wagon-trains, stretching from old Independence
to Westport Landing, the spot where that very year the new name of Kansas City was heard among
the emigrants as the place of the jump-off. It was now an hour by sun, as these Western people
would have said, and the low-lying valley mists had not yet fully risen, so that the atmosphere
for a great picture did not lack.

It was a great picture, a stirring panorama of an earlier day, which now unfolded. Slow, swaying,
stately, the ox teams came on, as though impelled by and not compelling the fleet of white
canvas sails. The teams did not hasten, did not abate their speed, but moved in an unagitated
advance that gave the massed column something irresistibly epochal in look.

The train, foreshortened to the watchers at the rendezvous, had a well-spaced formation--twenty
wagons, thirty, forty, forty-seven--as Jesse Wingate mentally counted them. There were outriders;
there were clumps of driven cattle. Along the flanks walked tall men, who flung over the low-headed
cattle an admonitory lash whose keen report presently could be heard, still faint and far off.
A dull dust cloud arose, softening the outlines of the prairie ships. The broad gestures of
arm and trunk, the monotonous soothing of commands to the sophisticated kine as yet remained
vague, so that still it was properly a picture done on a vast canvas--that of the frontier
in '48; a picture of might, of inevitableness. Even the sober souls of these waiters rose to
it, felt some thrill they themselves had never analyzed.

A boy of twenty, tall, blond, tousled, rode up from the grove back of the encampment of the
Wingate family.

"You, Jed?" said his father. "Ride on out and see if Molly's there."

"Sure she is!" commented the youth, finding a plug in the pocket of his jeans. "That's her.
Two fellers, like usual."

"Sam Woodhull, of course," said the mother, still hand over eye. "He hung around all winter,
telling how him and Colonel Doniphan whipped all Mexico and won the war. If Molly ain't in
a wagon of her own, it ain't his fault, anyways! I'll rest assured it's account of Molly's
going out to Oregon that he's going too! Well!" And again, "Well!"

"Who's the other fellow, though?" demanded Jed. "I can't place him this far."

Jesse Wingate handed over his team to his son and stepped out into the open road, moved his
hat in an impatient signal, half of welcome, half of command. It apparently was observed.

To their surprise, it was the unidentified rider who now set spur to his horse and came on
at a gallop ahead of the train. He rode carelessly well, a born horseman. In no more than a
few minutes he could be seen as rather a gallant figure of the border cavalier--a border just
then more martial than it had been before '46 and the days of "Fifty-Four Forty or Fight."

A shrewed man might have guessed this young man--he was no more than twenty-eight--to have
got some military air on a border opposite to that of Oregon; the far Southwest, where Taylor
and Scott and the less known Doniphan and many another fighting man had been adding certain
thousands of leagues to the soil of this republic. He rode a compact, short-coupled, cat-hammed
steed, coal black and with a dashing forelock reaching almost to his red nostrils--a horse
never reared on the fat Missouri corn lands. Neither did this heavy embossed saddle with its
silver concho decorations then seem familiar so far north; nor yet the thin braided-leather
bridle with its hair frontlet band and its mighty bit; nor again the great spurs with jingling
rowel bells. This rider's mount and trappings spoke the far and new Southwest, just then coming
into our national ken.

The young man himself, however, was upon the face of his appearance nothing of the swashbuckler.
True, in his close-cut leather trousers, his neat boots, his tidy gloves, his rather jaunty
broad black hat of felted beaver, he made a somewhat raffish figure of a man as he rode up,
weight on his under thigh, sidewise, and hand on his horse's quarters, carelessly; but his
clean cut, unsmiling features, his direct and grave look out of dark eyes, spoke him a gentleman
of his day and place, and no mere spectacular pretender assuming a virtue though he had it not.

He swung easily out of saddle, his right hand on the tall, broad Spanish horn as easily as
though rising from a chair at presence of a lady, and removed his beaver to this frontier woman
before he accosted her husband. His bridle he flung down over his horse's head, which seemingly
anchored the animal, spite of its loud whinnying challenge to these near-by stolid creatures
which showed harness rubs and not whitened saddle hairs.

"Good morning, madam," said he in a pleasant, quiet voice. "Good morning, sir. You are Mr.
and Mrs. Jesse Wingate, I believe. Your daughter yonder told me so."

"That's my name," said Jesse Wingate, eyeing the newcomer suspiciously, but advancing with
ungloved hand. "You're from the Liberty train?"

"Yes, sir. My name is Banion--William Banion. You may not know me. My family were Kentuckians
before my father came out to Franklin. I started up in the law at old Liberty town yonder not
so long ago, but I've been away a great deal."

"The law, eh?" Jesse Wingate again looked disapproval of the young man's rather pronouncedly
neat turnout. "Then you're not going West?"

"Oh, yes, I am, if you please, sir. I've done little else all my life. Two years ago I marched
with all the others, with Doniphan, for Mexico. Well, the war's over, and the treaty's likely
signed. I thought it high time to march back home. But you know how it is--the long trail's
in my blood now. I can't settle down."

Wingate nodded. The young man smilingly went on:

"I want to see how it is in Oregon. What with new titles and the like--and a lot of fighting
men cast in together out yonder, too--there ought to be as much law out there as here, don't
you think? So I'm going to seek my fortune in the Far West. It's too close and tame in here
now. I'm"--he smiled just a bit more obviously and deprecatingly--"I'm leading yonder caballad
of our neighbors, with a bunch of Illinois and Indiana wagons. They call me Col. William Banion.
It is not right--I was no more than Will Banion, major under Doniphan. I am not that now."

A change, a shadow came over his face. He shook it off as though it were tangible.

"So I'm at your service, sir. They tell me you've been elected captain of the Oregon train.
I wanted to throw in with you if I might, sir. I know we're late--we should have been in last
night. I rode in to explain that. May we pull in just beside you, on this water?"

Molly Wingate, on whom the distinguished address of the stranger, his easy manner and his courtesy
had not failed to leave their impression, answered before her husband.

"You certainly can, Major Banion."

"Mister Banion, please."

"Well then, Mister Banion. The water and grass is free. The day's young. Drive in and light
down. You said you saw our daughter, Molly--I know you did, for that's her now."

The young man colored under his bronze of tan, suddenly shy. Every time fixed in the soil one
of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass were hidden, and gave great jumping, splashing
in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs duck it was the only thing that interrupted
the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where
the tower looked like. And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although
she was not shy, I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and when least suspicious.
He was a portly white stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but
gentle and serene, it came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook
his head from side to side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended
and long wings flapped as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak, was
a son very similar to castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation,
as if respect him contained, kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every
two or three steps as if waiting for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because he was considered harmless,
but missed that show him as loving and as resolutely as long strides as he strode spandrels came
to her as if she were an old friend. Would you have known and dealt before and did not remember
then? Poldy sought in vain by all the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory
of that knowledge and treatment. Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have
ever had. The same could be seen than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite
express in any human language but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their
frequent stops and each of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation
Poldy and supplication, as if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was
also in a stork do not know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note
in a traveler of distinction, came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and
struck up a conversation without thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious
sympathy.

Poldy undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew
the stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed with exquisite good
manners, but because parenting is not learned, but rather should ease called fine or refined touch
of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in
his head touched. The stork was left was stroking and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste
caused him, squinting eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of
the lovely lady. It passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop,
all covered with abundant and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had
there, suspended ribbon very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric,
which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat
from that pledge.

Soon So broke the tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her
hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed
the lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but
in the end, dismissed the scruples, thinking that she had had no intention
of staying with the garment and was ready to return the bird if the
bird came back to it and somehow the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the fabric of silk, giving
form of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which was the color of apricots, was written in it with very
black ink in strange lines and several tiny letters. She looked at them and the Remiro, but
in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited moderately disciple of his brother,
Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which alphabet language and those symbols and
words belonged.

He suspected, however, that registration silk fabric were in Sanskrit,
a language he studied assiduously and enjoyment of his brother Count
Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher
his brother he what the web said.

Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch, as was
his custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito,
taught him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate
Valmiki suddenly the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were
in the fabric, but requested time and promised her sister have an
exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to the library, and triumphantly
showed him the verses and translated.

- Do not know what to think, he told his sister. Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from
India, where spent the winter, and the verses are the work of a Brahman,
or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I suspect that it
may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the verses and who hung
the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the one who find.

- What
end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the Ganges,
and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems
modeled on four lines of the Prologue in Heaven of Faust.

The coincidence is unlikely.

    And, although not impossible, I find strange
    and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe
    and imitate him.
    

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses say:

    I wish to heaven the brightest star;
    I call this land their fullest; And no
    love near or distant love Touched
    my heart quieted.

- True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe, unless the poet self says
what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

- Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue. I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell translated.
Maybe I in the translation I have rendered a European look in the original does not. Hear now the
final composition. The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly love with
love and sensuality inspire women. Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism
of others. It's like a small piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted by otherworldly style and
transcendent. The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic
romance of the Hebrews and the Indians. Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched beautiful and love
your friends, but this poet or touch or see, or hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain,
and in such a manner that it can live on this planet in another very
remote, and the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last
forty centuries or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas,
before it reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among
people of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is
not original or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The Muslim
prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's treasure,
while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any idea or
notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

- I'm all ears.

    Count Henry read thus:
    
    Where are you hiding, my beauty,
    they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full of
grace, free of anger?

    
    
    Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles
    Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

    
    
    You're not dreaming, you really are;
    Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful women Yours
will call the immortals.

    
    
    In the pure light in your eyes
    Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box Source
of their pleasure and treasure.

    
    
    Ora reside off the ground Ora show
    up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will go
looking for you.

    
    
    Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep
    sea are, I find you know, it's my life For me des exalted prize.

Poldy heard the verses carefully and discussed them with his brother and even tried with apparent
critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many flaws. What she concealed and
not revealed or his brother or anyone, was the swarm of assumptions and dreams verses that arose
in his imagination. Already contained writing them an elegant look young brahman, not far from his
magnificent villa, in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in his own palace
Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the kingdoms and countries that described the
ancient epics. But the author of the verses was a contemporary of her and looked her end by
the disease and passion that tormented him.

Loved or rather wanted to love, nothing worth seeing around him of his love, and looking away,
blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves to be loved.

In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered much on this, and wove and
wove countless stories, their feeling beautiful, with which she delighted
in secret without telling anyone, not even the old governess Justina
who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding
but to continuance.

In other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister,
whom he loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses
and the translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything. The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive
spirit so prosaically, would certainly have destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe
Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted She nobody tear down.

The widowed countess and Zaheri also accused his daughter frequently, calling it extravagant
of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable,
and reckless unattainable ideal persecuting and absurd.

If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success of the stork, did not they
think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore, or as
if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author of three poems. Already assumed
in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young and beautiful,
and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy. Symptoms were contempt and
disgust for his surroundings, and the vague desire for a good remote, dimly layout and a half
vanished in the mists and vapors of a thousand dreams.

Poldy discarded by vulgar and foolish belief of his brother, a German
scholar had Sanskrit verses composed for entertainment or to show
their expertise.

For her there was no no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman from India.

Poldy
We often went further in his bold imagination. She did not believe that the bird mosquito that
had appeared to him had the slightest resemblance or the swan Leda nor the white bull of the brave
daughter of Agenor, but might not be an instrument of the stork a great sage, perhaps a genius
or a fairy, whose powerful suggestions had obeyed coming to visit? Who will dare to limit the extent
possible? If we were not to believe only what we understand, only we would believe anything.

Sometimes
came to the memory of Poldy a story of the Thousand and One Nights, and delighted to boast that
what she had spent some resemblance to the story. In the more elevated regions air, met one
night a fairy and a genie who were flying in opposite directions. There he talked and confided that
the fairy came to visit and leave the most beautiful sleep Prince was in the world, and that
genius, from the other end of the earth, came to contemplate and admire a beautiful princess also
asleep in his bed virgin there in the recesses, elegant and perfumed
boudoir of his magnificent palace.

Genie and Fairy proposed that Prince and Princess to meet, fall in love and marry, and the media
to turn to do up the mess of that history. Poldy, while smoothing much the supernatural, and
modesty, for the skepticism that is so characteristic of the century This, he suspected that
everything that happened could very well be quite naturally something that coincided with the oriental
tale.

She had heard and had even read recent works dealing with Theosophy, which is • In India, some
scholars called Mahatma, which force and regular introinspección Honduras examination in itself
be able to acquire great and rare find secrets of nature, by virtue of which perform actions
that look miraculous, but are not. Would not it be perhaps the author
of three poetry mahatmas any such business that Poldy had guessed,
he had interviewed mentally, he had taken with her and • to communicate
their views and send infuse his lines without much surprise, half
had used the bird naturalísimo mosquito, which takes proper condition,
nothing of witchcraft and other evil arts, to spend the summer in
Austria and winter India? Rivalry for the head of the column began. The sounds of the bugle
set a thousand uncoördinated wheels spasmodically in motion. Organization, system were as yet
unknown in this rude and dominant democracy. Need was therefore for this final meeting in the
interest of law, order and authority. Already some wagons had broken camp and moved on out
into the main traveled road, which lay plain enough on westward, among the groves and glades
of the valley of the Kaw. Each man wanted to be first to Oregon, no man wished to take the
dust of his neighbor's wagon.

Wingate brought up all these matters at the train meeting of some three score men which assembled
under the trees of his own encampment at eleven of the last morning. Most of the men he knew.
Banion unobtrusively took a seat well to the rear of those who squatted on their heels or lolled
full length on the grass.

After the fashion of the immemorial American town meeting, the beginning of all our government,
Wingate called the meeting to order and stated its purposes. He then set forth his own ideas
of the best manner for handling the trail work.

His plan, as he explained, was one long earlier perfected in the convoys of the old Santa Fé
Trail. The wagons were to travel in close order. Four parallel columns, separated by not too
great spaces, were to be maintained as much as possible, more especially toward nightfall.
Of these, the outer two were to draw in together when camp was made, the other two to angle
out, wagon lapping wagon, front and rear, thus making an oblong corral of the wagons, into
which, through a gap, the work oxen were to be driven every night after they had fed. The tents
and fires were to be outside of the corral unless in case of an Indian alarm, when the corral
would represent a fortress.

The transport animals were to be hobbled each night. A guard, posted entirely around the corral
and camp, was to be put out each night. Each man and each boy above fourteen was to be subject
to guard duty under the ancient common law of the Plains, and from this duty no man might hope
excuse unless actually too ill to walk; nor could any man offer to procure any substitute for
himself. The watches were to be set as eight, each to stand guard one-fourth part of alternate
nights, so that each man would get every other night undisturbed.

There were to be lieutenants, one for each of the four parallel divisions of the train; also
eight sergeants of the guard, each of whom was to select and handle the men of the watch under
him. No wagon might change its own place in the train after the start, dust or no dust.

When Wingate ended his exposition and looked around for approval it was obvious that many of
these regulations met with disfavor at the start. The democracy of the train was one in which
each man wanted his own way. Leaning head to head, speaking low, men grumbled at all this fuss
and feathers and Army stuff. Some of these were friends and backers in the late election. Nettled
by their silence, or by their murmured comments, Wingate arose again.

"Well, you have heard my plan, men," said he. "The Santa Fé men worked it up, and used it for
years, as you all know. They always got through. If there's anyone here knows a better way,
and one that's got more experience back of it, I'd like to have him get up and say so."

Silence for a time greeted this also. The Northern men, Wingate's partisans, looked uncomfortably
one to the other. It was young Woodhull, of the Liberty contingent, who rose at length.

"What Cap'n Wingate has said sounds all right to me," said he. "He's a new friend of mine--I
never saw him till two-three hours ago--but I know about him. What he says about the Santa
Fé fashion I know for true. As some of you know, I was out that way, up the Arkansas, with
Doniphan, for the Stars and Stripes. Talk about wagon travel--you got to have a regular system
or you have everything in a mess. This here, now, is a lot like so many volunteers enlisting
for war. There's always a sort of preliminary election of officers; sort of shaking down and
shaping up. I wasn't here when Cap'n Wingate was elected--our wagons were some late--but speaking
for our men, I'd move to ratify his choosing, and that means to ratify his regulations. I'm
wondering if I don't get a second for that?"

Some of the bewhiskered men who sat about him stirred, but cast their eyes toward their own
captain, young Banion, whose function as their spokesman had thus been usurped by his defeated
rival, Woodhull. Perhaps few of them suspected the argumentum ad hominem--or rather ad feminam--in
Woodhull's speech.

Banion alone knew this favor-currying when he saw it, and knew well enough the real reason.
It was Molly! Rivals indeed they were, these two, and in more ways than one. But Banion held
his peace until one quiet father of a family spoke up.

"I reckon our own train captain, that we elected in case we didn't throw in with the big train,
had ought to say what he thinks about it all."

Will Banion now rose composedly and bowed to the leader.

"I'm glad to second Mr. Woodhull's motion to throw our vote and our train for Captain Wingate
and the big train," said he. "We'll ratify his captaincy, won't we?"

The nods of his associates now showed assent, and Wingate needed no more confirmation.

"In general, too, I would ratify Captain Wingate's scheme. But might I make a few suggestions?"

"Surely--go on." Wingate half rose.

"Well then, I'd like to point out that we've got twice as far to go as the Santa Fé traders,
and over a very different country--more dangerous, less known, harder to travel. We've many
times more wagons than any Santa Fé train ever had, and we've hundreds of loose cattle along.
That means a sweeping off of the grass at every stop, and grass we've got to have or the train
stops.

"Besides our own call on grass, I know there'll be five thousand Mormons at least on the trail
ahead of us this spring--they've crossed the river from here to the Bluffs, and they're out
on the Platte right now. We take what grass they leave us.

"What I'm trying to get at, captain, is this: We might have to break into smaller detachments
now and again. We could not possibly always keep alignment in four columns."

"And then we'd be open to any Indian attack," interrupted Woodhull.

"We might have to fight some of the time, yes," rejoined Banion; "but we'll have to travel
all the time, and we'll have to graze our stock all the time. On that one basic condition our
safety rests--grass and plenty of it. We're on a long journey.

"You see, gentlemen," he added, smiling, "I was with Doniphan also. We learned a good many
things. For instance, I'd rather see each horse on a thirty-foot picket rope, anchored safe
each night, than to trust to any hobbles. A homesick horse can travel miles, hobbled, in a
night. Horses are a lot of trouble.

"Now, I see that about a fourth of our people, including Captain Wingate, have horses and mules
and not ox transport. I wish they all could trade for oxen before they start. Oxen last longer
and fare better. They are easier to herd. They can be used for food in the hard first year
out in Oregon. The Indians don't steal oxen--they like buffalo better--but they'll take any
chance to run off horses or even mules. If they do, that means your women and children are
on foot. You know the story of the Donner party, two years ago--on foot, in the snow. They
died, and worse than died, just this side of California."

Men of Iowa, of Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, began to nod to one another, approving the words of
this young man.

"He talks sense," said a voice aloud.

"Well, I'm talking a whole lot, I know," said Banion gravely, "but this is the time and place
for our talking. I'm for throwing in with the Wingate train, as I've said. But will Captain
Wingate let me add even just a few words more?

"For instance, I would suggest that we ought to have a record of all our personnel. Each man
ought to be required to give his own name and late residence, and the names of all in his party.
He should be obliged to show that his wagon is in good condition, with spare bolts, yokes,
tires, bows and axles, and extra shoes for the stock. Each wagon ought to be required to carry
anyhow half a side of rawhide, and the usual tools of the farm and the trail, as well as proper
weapons and abundance of ammunition.

"No man ought to be allowed to start with this caravan with less supplies, for each mouth of
his wagon, than one hundred pounds of flour. One hundred and fifty or even two hundred would
be much better--there is loss and shrinkage. At least half as much of bacon, twenty pounds
of coffee, fifty of sugar would not be too much in my own belief. About double the pro rata
of the Santa Fé caravans is little enough, and those whose transport power will let them carry
more supplies ought to start full loaded, for no man can tell the actual duration of this journey,
or what food may be needed before we get across. One may have to help another."

Even Wingate joined in the outspoken approval of this, and Banion, encouraged, went on:

"Some other things, men, since you have asked each man to speak freely. We're not hunters,
but home makers. Each family, I suppose, has a plow and seed for the first crop. We ought,
too, to find out all our blacksmiths, for I promise you we'll need them. We ought to have a
half dozen forges and as many anvils, and a lot of irons for the wagons.

"I suppose, too, you've located all your doctors; also all your preachers--you needn't camp
them all together. Personally I believe in Sunday rest and Sunday services. We're taking church
and state and home and law along with us, day by day, men, and we're not just trappers and
adventurers. The fur trade's gone.

"I even think we ought to find out our musicians--it's good to have a bugler, if you can. And
at night, when the people are tired and disheartened, music is good to help them pull together."

The bearded men who listened nodded yet again.

"About schools, now--the other trains that went out, the Applegates in 1843, the Donners of
1846, each train, I believe, had regular schools along, with hours each day.

"Do you think I'm right about all this? I'm sure I don't want Captain Wingate to be offended.
I'm not dividing his power. I'm only trying to stiffen it."

Woodhull arose, a sneer on his face, but a hand pushed him down. A tall Missourian stood before
him.

"Right ye air, Will!" said he. "Ye've an old head, an' we kin trust hit. Ef hit wasn't Cap'n
Wingate is more older than you, an' already done elected, I'd be for choosin' ye fer cap'n
o' this here hull train right now. Seein' hit's the way hit is, I move we vote to do what Will
Banion has said is fitten. An' I move we-uns throw in with the big train, with Jess Wingate
for cap'n. An' I move we allow one more day to git in supplies an' fixin's, an' trade hosses
an' mules an' oxens, an' then we start day atter to-morrow mornin' when the bugle blows. Then
hooray fer Oregon!"

There were cheers and a general rising, as though after finished business, which greeted this.
Jesse Wingate, somewhat crestfallen and chagrined over the forward ways of this young man,
of whom he never had heard till that very morning, put a perfunctory motion or so, asked loyalty
and allegiance, and so forth.

But what they remembered was that he appointed as his wagon-column captains Sam Woodhull, of
Missouri; Caleb Price, an Ohio man of substance; Simon Hall, an Indiana merchant, and a farmer
by name of Kelsey, from Kentucky. To Will Banion the trainmaster assigned the most difficult
and thankless task of the train, the captaincy of the cow column; that is to say, the leadership
of the boys and men whose families were obliged to drive the loose stock of the train.

There were sullen mutterings over this in the Liberty column. Men whispered they would not
follow Woodhull. As for Banion, he made no complaint, but smiled and shook hands with Wingate
and all his lieutenants and declared his own loyalty and that of his men; then left for his
own little adventure of a half dozen wagons which he was freighting out to Laramie--bacon,
flour and sugar, for the most part; each wagon driven by a neighbor or a neighbor's son. Among
these already arose open murmurs of discontent over the way their own contingent had been treated.
Banion had to mend a potential split before the first wheel had rolled westward up the Kaw.

The men of the meeting passed back among their neighbors and families, and spoke with more
seriousness than hitherto. The rifle firing ended, the hilarity lessened that afternoon. In
the old times the keel-boatmen bound west started out singing. The pack-train men of the fur
trade went shouting and shooting, and the confident hilarity of the Santa Fé wagon caravans
was a proverb. But now, here in the great Oregon train, matters were quite otherwise. There
were women and children along. An unsmiling gravity marked them all. When the dusky velvet
of the prairie night settled on almost the last day of the rendezvous it brought a general
feeling of anxiety, dread, uneasiness, fear. Now, indeed, and at last, all these realized what
was the thing that they had undertaken.

To add yet more to the natural apprehensions of men and women embarking on so stupendous an
adventure, all manner of rumors now continually passed from one company to another. It was
said that five thousand Mormons, armed to the teeth, had crossed the river at St. Joseph and
were lying in wait on the Platte, determined to take revenge for the persecutions they had
suffered in Missouri and Illinois. Another story said that the Kaw Indians, hitherto friendly,
had banded together for robbery and were only waiting for the train to appear. A still more
popular story had it that a party of several Englishmen had hurried ahead on the trail to excite
all the savages to waylay and destroy the caravans, thus to wreak the vengeance of England
upon the Yankees for the loss of Oregon. Much unrest arose over reports, hard to trace, to
the effect that it was all a mistake about Oregon; that in reality it was a truly horrible
country, unfit for human occupancy, and sure to prove the grave of any lucky enough to survive
the horrors of the trail, which never yet had been truthfully reported. Some returned travelers
from the West beyond the Rockies, who were hanging about the landing at the river, made it
all worse by relating what purported to be actual experiences.

"If you ever get through to Oregon," they said, "you'll be ten years older than you are now.
Your hair will be white, but not by age."

The Great Dipper showed clear and close that night, as if one might almost pick off by hand
the familiar stars of the traveler's constellation. Overhead countless brilliant points of
lesser light enameled the night mantle, matching the many camp fires of the great gathering.
The wind blew soft and low. Night on the prairie is always solemn, and to-night the tense anxiety,
the strained anticipation of more than two thousand souls invoked a brooding melancholy which
it seemed even the stars must feel.

A dog, ominous, lifted his voice in a long, mournful howl which made mothers put out their
hands to their babes. In answer a coyote in the grass raised a high, quavering cry, wild and
desolate, the voice of the Far West.

CHAPTER IV

FEVER OF NEW FORTUNES

The notes of a bugle, high and clear, sang reveille at dawn. Now came hurried activities of
those who had delayed. The streets of the two frontier settlements were packed with ox teams,
horses, wagons, cattle driven through. The frontier stores were stripped of their last supplies.
One more day, and then on to Oregon!

Wingate broke his own camp early in the morning and moved out to the open country west of the
landing, making a last bivouac at what would be the head of the train. He had asked his four
lieutenants to join him there. Hall, Price, and Kelsey headed in with straggling wagons to
form the nucleuses of their columns; but the morning wore on and the Missourians, now under
Woodhull, had not yet broken park. Wingate waited moodily.

Now at the edge of affairs human apprehensions began to assert themselves, especially among
the womenfolk. Even stout Molly Wingate gave way to doubt and fears. Her husband caught her,
apron to eyes, sitting on the wagon tongue at ten in the morning, with her pots and pans unpacked.

"What?" he exclaimed. "You're not weakening? Haven't you as much courage as those Mormon women
on ahead? Some of them pushing carts, I've heard."

"They've done it for religion, Jess. Oregon ain't no religion for me."

"Yet it has music for a man's ears, Molly."

"Hush! I've heard it all for the last two years. What happened to the Donners two years back?
And four years ago it was the Applegates left home in old Missouri to move to Oregon. Who will
ever know where their bones are laid? Look at our land we left--rich--black and rich as any
in the world. What corn, what wheat--why, everything grew well in Illinois!"

"Yes, and cholera below us wiping out the people, and the trouble over slave-holding working
up the river more and more, and the sun blazing in the summer, while in the wintertime we froze!"

"Well, as for food, we never saw any part of Kentucky with half so much grass. We had no turkeys
at all there, and where we left you could kill one any gobbling time. The pigeons roosted not
four miles from us. In the woods along the river even a woman could kill coons and squirrels,
all we'd need--no need for us to eat rabbits like the Mormons. Our chicken yard was fifty miles
across. The young ones'd be flying by roasting-ear time--and in fall the sloughs was black
with ducks and geese. Enough and to spare we had; and our land opening; and Molly teaching
the school, with twelve dollars a month cash for it, and Ted learning his blacksmith trade
before he was eighteen. How could we ask more? What better will we do in Oregon?"

"You always throw the wet blanket on Oregon, Molly."

"It is so far!"

"How do we know it is far? We know men and women have crossed, and we know the land is rich.
Wheat grows fifty bushels to the acre, the trees are big as the spires on meeting houses, the
fish run by millions in the streams. Yet the winters have little snow. A man can live there
and not slave out a life.

"Besides"--and the frontier now spoke in him--"this country is too old, too long settled. My
father killed his elk and his buffalo, too, in Kentucky; but that was before my day. I want
the buffalo. I crave to see the Plains, Molly. What real American does not?"

Mrs. Wingate threw her apron over her face.

"The Oregon fever has witched you, Jesse!" she exclaimed between dry sobs.

Wingate was silent for a time.

"Corn ought to grow in Oregon," he said at last.

"Yes, but does it?"

"I never heard it didn't. The soil is rich, and you can file on six hundred and forty acres.
There's your donation claim, four times bigger than any land you can file on here. We sold
out at ten dollars an acre--more'n our land really was worth, or ever is going to be worth.
It's just the speculators says any different. Let 'em have it, and us move on. That's the way
money's made, and always has been made, all across the United States."

"Huh! You talk like a land speculator your own self!"

"Well, if it ain't the movers make a country, what does? If we don't settle Oregon, how long'll
we hold it? The preachers went through to Oregon with horses. Like as not even the Applegates
got their wagons across. Like enough they got through. I want to see the country before it
gets too late for a good chance, Molly. First thing you know buffalo'll be getting scarce out
West, too, like deer was getting scarcer on the Sangamon. We ought to give our children as
good a chance as we had ourselves."

"As good a chance! Haven't they had as good a chance as we ever had? Didn't our land more'n
thribble, from a dollar and a quarter? It may thribble again, time they're old as we are now."

"That's a long time to wait."

"It's a long time to live a life-time, but everybody's got to live it."

She stood, looking at him.

"Look at all the good land right in here! Here we got walnut and hickory and oak--worlds of
it. We got sassafras and pawpaw and hazel brush. We get all the hickory nuts and pecans we
like any fall. The wild plums is better'n any in Kentucky; and as for grapes, they're big as
your thumb, and thousands, on the river. Wait till you see the plum and grape jell I could
make this fall!"

"Women--always thinking of jell!"

"But we got every herb here we need--boneset and sassafras and Injun physic and bark for the
fever. There ain't nothing you can name we ain't got right here, or on the Sangamon, yet you
talk of taking care of our children. Huh! We've moved five times since we was married. Now
just as we got into a good country, where a woman could dry corn and put up jell, and where
a man could raise some hogs, why, you wanted to move again--plumb out to Oregon! I tell you,
Jesse Wingate, hogs is a blame sight better to tie to than buffalo! You talk like you had to
settle Oregon!"

"Well, haven't I got to? Somehow it seems a man ain't making up his own mind when he moves
West Pap moved twice in Kentucky, once in Tennessee, and then over to Missouri, after you and
me was married and moved up into Indiana, before we moved over into Illinois. He said to me--and
I know it for the truth--he couldn't hardly tell who it was or what it was hitched up the team.
But first thing he knew, there the old wagon stood, front of the house, cover all on, plow
hanging on behind, tar bucket under the wagon, and dog and all. All he had to do, pap said,
was just to climb up on the front seat and speak to the team. My maw, she climb up on the seat
with him. Then they moved--on West. You know, Molly. My maw, she climb up on the front seat--"

His wife suddenly turned to him, the tears still in her eyes.

"Yes, and Jesse Wingate, and you know it, your wife's as good a woman as your maw! When the
wagon was a-standing, cover on, and you on the front seat, I climb up by you, Jess, same as
I always have and always will. Haven't I always? You know that. But it's harder on women, moving
is. They care more for a house that's rain tight in a storm."

"I know you did, Molly," said her husband soberly.

"I suppose I can pack my jells in a box and put in the wagon, anyways." She was drying her eyes.

"Why, yes, I reckon so. And then a few sacks of dried corn will go mighty well on the road."

"One thing"--she turned on him in wifely fury--"you shan't keep me from taking my bureau and
my six chairs all the way across! No, nor my garden seeds, all I saved. No, nor yet my rose
roots that I'm taking along. We got to have a home, Jess--we got to have a home! There's Jed
and Molly coming on."

"Where's Molly now?" suddenly asked her husband. "She'd ought to be helping you right now."

"Oh, back at the camp, I s'pose--her and Jed, too. I told her to pick a mess of dandelion greens
and bring over. Larking around with them young fellows, like enough. Huh! She'll have less
time. If Jed has to ride herd, Molly's got to take care of that team of big mules, and drive
'em all day in the light wagon too. I reckon if she does that, and teaches night school right
along, she won't be feeling so gay."

"They tell me folks has got married going across," she added, "not to mention buried. One book
we had said, up on the Platte, two years back, there was a wedding and a birth and a burying
in one train, all inside of one hour, and all inside of one mile. That's Oregon!"

"Well, I reckon it's life, ain't it?" rejoined her husband. "One thing, I'm not keen to have
Molly pay too much notice to that young fellow Banion--him they said was a leader of the Liberty
wagons. Huh, he ain't leader now!"

"You like Sam Woodhull better for Molly, Jess?"

"Some ways. He falls in along with my ideas. He ain't so apt to make trouble on the road. He
sided in with me right along at the last meeting."

"He done that? Well, his father was a sheriff once, and his uncle, Judge Henry D. Showalter,
he got into Congress. Politics! But some folks said the Banions was the best family. Kentucky,
they was. Well, comes to siding in, Jess, I reckon it's Molly herself'll count more in that
than either o' them or either o' us. She's eighteen past. Another year and she'll be an old
maid. If there's a wedding going across--"

"There won't be," said her husband shortly. "If there is it won't be her and no William Banion,
I'm saying that."

CHAPTER V

THE BLACK SPANIARD

Meantime the younger persons referred to in the frank discussion of Wingate and his wife were
occupying themselves in their own fashion their last day in camp. Molly, her basket full of
dandelion leaves, was reluctant to leave the shade of the grove by the stream, and Jed had
business with the team of great mules that Molly was to drive on the trail.

As for the Liberty train, its oval remained unbroken, the men and women sitting in the shade
of the wagons. Their outfitting had been done so carefully that little now remained for attention
on the last day, but the substantial men of the contingent seemed far from eager to be on their
way. Groups here and there spoke in monosyllables, sullenly. They wanted to join the great
train, had voted to do so; but the cavalier deposing of their chosen man Banion--who before
them all at the meeting had shown himself fit to lead--and the cool appointment of Woodhull
in his place had on reflection seemed to them quite too high-handed a proposition. They said
so now.

"Where's Woodhull now?" demanded the bearded man who had championed Banion. "I see Will out
rounding up his cows, but Sam Woodhull ain't turned a hand to hooking up to pull in west o'
town with the others."

"That's easy," smiled another. "Sam Woodhull is where he's always going to be--hanging around
the Wingate girl. He's over at their camp now."

"Well, I dunno's I blame him so much for that, neither. And he kin stay there fer all o' me. Purpose
of selflessness for the sake of his family, never did his thinking. It simply said and spontaneously
that it was necessary at home, who was working there he was, never dreaming never more painful than
their efforts to do so could be called self-denial or sacrifice, even duty: I would because,
because it was the older brother, the only man in the house. In their calculations did not come
to anything Tirso. If not, who would?

The misery caused changes in the material life of Pepe, was initially only sensitive: at first, it
came down to the few books he had bought were going about rolling on the dinner table to his room until
he's saved by not seeing them. Apparently, to hide those books was erased in the family the idea
that Pepe had to resign the race: Mrs. Manuela, who was good, but little notice, she felt some bitterness,
resolution Your child's sad, because it sure sign of great deprivation: - "The poor have had to
leave school "- he said, unable to further all that this phrase was wrapped. In the event Leocadia
mortified him more than his mother, but otherwise. While Pepe was limited to exchange the class
about the fate of the Senate, said: - "My brother has employed" - and tone in which she spoke
discovered some self satisfied. The real disappointment I had as a result of the proposition
Millan, Pepe came concealer in print: that which his brother won a bitterly impressed wages, partly
because of what it meant such determination, and even more wounded vanity. His great fear was that Pepe
got to get blouse to work, as if this detail was wrapped all the ruin of the house. Compromised
with poverty, misery, yet, but it embarrassing, not aware of neighbor humiliations they did not
care. The biggest regret was for Don José. The three-year Pepe extended right, had become accustomed
to thinking in education and in an effort very expensive, but for him, full of charm. The humble
employee who spent his life on the run mata, from office to office, from center to center,
without support or valimiento, had acquired such habits of order and economy, which would be
of possible to run this child, and give to your liking, as it gave no other. The poor old man would
not be reached by what means it; but through the eyes of the imagination he saw the boy and wearing
the white robes vuelillos, with the cap set, the chest plate and seated on a high-backed chair,
listening reports of lawyers who, speaking to him, speak with profound respect ... and suddenly
came the discount, losses, arrears, retirement, reducing the future judge placed by the clerk to
please a friend, and at the mercy of those who had influence to remove any day the benefit of another
square. The resolution adopted by Pepe to go to work with Millan, painfully wounded spirits
of Don José, but it would have been hard to determine Nick print him more, if the pain of seeing her
child taken to that end, or pride to regard as strong in adversity. The tender tears soon dried
their eyes: the conceit is not erased from the soul.

The hardest to resist unfortunately, was the biggest loser with it: as Pepe, which and gave
no importance to the sacrifice, not delivered either to the quiet
resignation and sad, whose silence suffocates the pain without mitigation.

His character varied somewhat, but he knew it, but did not undergo a real transformation. The
fibers of his heart were such that no bastard could be stricken by misfortune, as they had
not changed not cherished by fortune. That mocking disbelief that always welcomed as could not
clarify reasoning, increased and became more bitter, and his grace to censure claimed acrimony,
took his jokes plaintively said in jest, but the propensity was funny always dominating on his
lips, ready to ridicule their ideas and hobbies as you pointed worthy of reproach. Setbacks not
removed his enthusiasm for what he loved, or exacerbated skepticism, but, convinced that the
conditions of life had changed for complete it, acquired a serenity that contrasts with the
few years, gave his words a bitter and melancholy. Even the most energetic satire sadly seemed
to spring from her mouth.

After the first few weeks of this new existence, divided between the library Senate, where his job
was to give books to turn the race he wanted, and tasks of printing,
where under the supervision of Miller was becoming more and more useful,
began experience some rest that he understood not to be definitive,
but he was flattered to see it reflected in the house.

His life and journeyman clerk gave him a handful of dollars, with which had to go shopping
and just as often to the pharmacy. Of law not spoke again to continue the race was a dream,
and yet, having had to give it was the sorrow of the whole family. Everyone felt it his way:
Dona Manuela :--«¡ not say but my son, how it works! "The father did not attempt to confess even
loudly in front of people: - "He will be in print." Leocadia, with undisguised disgust to what
his brother was a worker, spoke of the destination or use, and when he saw him again home, instinctively
looked at his hands, afraid to bring them some dirty signal your honorable work. I could not
avoid: the vanity of Madrid who was supposed to cover silk frills lack of linen, and prefers
the ornament of the room to care of the bedroom.

Pepe also participated in some way, that feeling which tends to hide the neighbor his own misery.
There was a person who did not had the courage to admit that working in Millán printing, and that
person was his girlfriend, Miss Car, as he called Leocadia. Pepe Paz had made clear to the situation
of his family that his father was an old modest tax official, that he had to abandon the race
due to lack of resources to follow, subject to employment granted
almost by charity, but not passed on: nothing told the press, support
from Miller, the galleys, or day laborer tasks.

At first it was completely open by that same mischievous vanity Leocadia and lack of courage
after: Peace even knowing how he came to know, was afraid to say it: - "The man you love, you,
the rich girl, spoiled by fortune, going at night to earn a wage that comes on Saturdays as blacksmiths
and bricklayers. "imagined that he would lose: his eye was completely absurd for Paz, after
knowing this, continue to love him. Modern life offered him every step examples of daughters
of wealthy families who for loving whim had to marry a poor journalist, with a little lawyer,
with anyone even the poorest of the middle class but who was ever in these times a lady made
to tread carpets and sticking the waist with silk, hand deliver a journeyman? Pepe silent,
without fear that she knew the whole truth, but without the courage to say it with their own lips.
Hearing her cry out frequently between passionate and affectionate, "Pepe me, how I love you!"
pulse rushing him to disclose what he was hiding as a disgrace, but then, watching dressed with
all the beauties of the estate, removed his hands or examining them to neglect fearful, and
her sister, to find them printed on the spot dirty work.

IV

Don Luis Maria de Agreda, a senator elected, thanks to the wealth and influence he had on his people,
was one of the old progressive obstinate in his party to survive, from those they put on all national
sovereignty, and for whom there was no contemporary Spain but four men of great worth: Mendizabal, for
the seizure; Espartero, having Carlism expired; Olózaga, having spoken before one of the traditional
obstacles; and Prim, to follow in his footsteps.

The fortunes of Don Luis, to be respectable, but the rest was not how much you spent your father
to conspire against Sartorius and Narvaez, but what better inherited was a great love for the game
progressive, much antipathy to demagoguery, which struck him as something paid for by gold reaction,
and a moderate repulsion Carlist invincible. The work of Don Luis on boards and party committees,
articles, projects and opinions he wrote, would be incalculable, with endless times projected third
in the debates, but never had the courage to break to speak in public
or to send two pages of a newspaper.

It was silly and it seemed because without actually having influence among his people imagined
that the consequence and loyalty should give more prominence it enjoyed, being somewhat vain. As
the word obey evil thought, fled the long dialogues and talks in circles, limiting making yes
/ no signs of head, and at best, to say terse sentences, taking on his lips pretentious tone judgments.
Many regarded him as a man formal, but short-sighted, and I tried some serious ass. Those went over
close to the truth, because without an intelligence insider Don Luis, was honored and final,
if somewhat embittered, to imagine that it should shine and bubbling over in his party.

What was his real claim to fame, for those who heard of it was education that he gave his daughter.
For the widowed thirty-two years and suggested that peace, when he was missing, was able to live by
themselves, without outside help, he knew his fortune managing and learn to know his heart, not
to leave it exposed to predation or errors tutorescas of their inexperience. Often said: - "Know
how much you have, hard drive, and has always considering what you're going to do, so that
neither the neighbor nor rob you fooled you. "

Peace was a season of three years in a school run by nuns, which was not please his father, but
what to do if there were no other race in Madrid home education? He learned to write with beautiful
letter, to speak French quite well and rudiments incomplete of many things: little sewing,
embroidery something and pray a lot. Without leaving the school knew As also happened in Madrid until
insides of families that no one cared; but, apparently, for the mothers there were no secrets,
so that output Sunday, Don Luis was wonderful to hear her daughter
things that he did not hear or the rippling of the Casino.

This, and a vanity tantico that was awakening in the soul of Peace, led to his father to remove
the convent school, but even if wanted to do it with great tact and restraint, finally had to be
strong, because the holy women had tried to attract the will of the child. "We led this goodness of Peace?
"Aspires to conquer your precious voice to the chapel? Prendáronse "perhaps the enthusiasm with
which was the first to spend rich schoolgirl savings buying, and the altar cloth of Christ,
and the touches of the Virgin and the lace for altar cloth? This was a holiday, Don Luis may
not be get it, sent the carriage to a relative, who returned for lunch alone referring to the
good mother had said that Paz did not go mademoiselle. Don Luis, thinking his daughter was ill,
went immediately to see and dislike of the superior, it was not bring the girl to the presence
of the father, who spent a very bad time noting that his peace, not be punished or ill, paving
gladly stay there instead of going to spend the day with him. Finally got her daughter to
follow him, and tonight has not allowed back to school. "There are no more mothers than me"
- said Don Luis - and has since devoted care and education of his daughter, without losing that
his excessive fondness for public affairs. The letters of the superior and the embassies of
the chaplain, were in vain efforts to recover the sheep, but not able to turn to the fold.
Thereafter, Don Luis allowed to Peace, from time to time, spend something in Sabanilla, cloaks
and lace, but not let her return set foot in the convent. Meekness, which is great virtue,
the nuns prevented offend: never left his lips word of reproach, nothing they tried to inflame
the devotion rising, perhaps frustrated vocation of peace, but also forgot to remember in
days determined and solemn festivities at one end of Madrid was a house that is holy honored to
have had it for pupil and which was sent from time to time some alms to charity, a bouquet of flowers
for that altar whose steps are kneeling many times.

As peace was good, the treasure of love which he found in his house the school was soon forgotten,
and that passion went out like Mongil hand. Freedom of action, the pride to send in his house as
the owner and, especially, the skilled father's love, drowned while the pious kidnapping may
have occurred. It took a few weeks of this life, and school, before some poetry imbued placid, was
reduced in the imagination of Peace to a set of memories cold and colorless. After a year Don
Luis, choosing cautiously took her home where he began it at the called good society, which
touched his finery and the more worried than before the clothes of the holy images: cabinet
full of beauties and the soft bed were most pleasing to the cold room and schoolgirl narrow bed, the
flowers in her hair put his hand cut off by the garden of the house,
overthrew the bouquets of cloth of the altar, and to top of wickedness,
the first symphony of Mozart that he heard playing in his ears sounded
more pleasant than the litanies, salves and motets.

The number of impressions experienced Paz treading strange houses classrooms, there was no But
as nice as you felt going to reign in his own home. A bit of live with his father, he learned
of their business, explaining what his fortune, helping it to manage interest, which came Paz
persuaded that Don Luis was an honest man, and the origin of what was decent and clean. Instead,
he began to see that not all houses or all men as his home and his father. Although incomplete
and veiled through education and the hypocrisy, bad light came to his eyes, causing a feeling
like which suffer who made just to breathe clean air, suddenly entered in an atmosphere flawed.
The instinct was supplied to the mischief, malice wit: failed to imagination unravel the causes
of things, but saw the impact and was quite in order to be entered the soul a healthy fear.

In
his mind there were two simultaneous impulses: the awakening of the moral concerns of life
and distrust anyone to share his emotions.

With his father had all the sincerity possible, but the mysterious desires, those doubts naive
reserved for those women whispered to the one her heart, did not leave his lips. The gallant and
phrases compliments the instilled a restless anticipation, a vague terror that prevented display pleased:
was like a bird who was afraid to network. When a man flattered her ear with tenderness or asked
hopes, she involuntarily remembered so many unhappy poor married couples quarreling, households
seemed inns, where husband and wife accused indifference, diversion, if not disgust. Self-love will
not let her deny her beauty, but her instinct said danger in their wealth. Being loved by another,
it seemed easy: to know what love would be sincere, we judged impossible. Wanted to hide the
welfare of his house, and sometimes extravagant impulses felt jokes, easily hide their lust
for achievement, similar to those princes who travel undercover to thank rigorous inspire sympathy
and hear the language of openness.

"The best costume - used to say - is the conceals more than it costs. "

* * * * *

One afternoon he saw Pepe entered the library of the Senate a gentleman about fifty years tall, graying,
his face shaven and looking entirely too clean, addressing the main charge, said:

- I come to ask you a favor. Can you recommend one of these guys that you have here, at your
service, to come a few mornings at my house and help me tidy my library? I have new shelves
and books must be transferred site. A wise guy, eh?

- Hey you this - Pepe asked the boss, and addressing the gentleman, he added .-- Nobody by the way:
its formality and its illustration will serve you much. Almost a lawyer ...

He has made the request looked at Joe, and the authority that gave
her years, said to him:

- Let's see, young man.

       A boy, though not needed, never hurts a puñadillo of dollars.

Have you heard what we discussed? Want you come to my house a few mornings?

- Yes sir, and I will do my best to accommodate.

- Well, I count
on you When will we start? because I have it there all upset.

- When
you want.

- Tomorrow.

We hope in the morning to eleven.

When he was gone, Pepe thanked the librarian and asked who was that man.

- It Don Luis Maria de Agreda, Senator, very good person. Of those who never speaks, and progressive
in the former, but very rich. Merely go to the polls, although always
saying he will be speaking ... and never speaks.

Then he gave the address of the house of Don Luis and separated.

V

Turning to the appointment of Mr. de Agreda, at half past ten came
next Pepe in the hotel that lived, at the end of the Castellana.

He crossed the garden, small and neat, climbed the stairs, full of
pots, which seemed to be guarding two magnificent bronze dogs, and
entered the office, which was part of the ground floor.

The wood floor was assembled, the magnificent tapestries, the furniture
comfortable and luxurious; all charged a lot of money.

The board indicated order, great cleanliness and little work, as
had on it was well placed, but without noticing anything in the confusion,
own work continuous.

Books were few, richly bound, and no signs of frequent handling:
should not be those who had to be sorted.

In two side walls of a wall covered very dark flowered paper gold, there were two portraits
of women. In one, the costume and hair the fashion of 1850, but above all, paint, licking and
scavenging finesse, betrayed the hand of one of those artists who maintained the elegant style reminiscent
of Don Vicente López, without having acquired the force of the great
painters of our contemporaries.

The lady was combing her hair done two great waves, very smooth, and his features almost identical
to the one portrayed in the canvas, but it was the beauty of the first more Full and harmonious.
Despite this difference, it seemed then, that was easy to guess their relationship. They must be
mother and daughter, judging by the age and represented each the difference in the suits. The
portrait of the youngest was a double wonder, by the model and invoice. A piece of gauze covered
her impalpable shoulders, like a ruff old, had face is almost in shadow, eyes tight for a livor
dark, slightly tilted head forward and placed between the hair a pink pen, weightless, loose,
that seemed ready to move at the slightest breath.

The two balconies overlooked the garden office, through the slats of the blinds falls, saw a small
stove with expensive flowers plants, destined to die in vases lit a cabinet or chest of a pretty
woman. Completed the ornament the walls a few English prints, a portrait of Olózaga, lithography,
with a dedication autograph, and an honorary colonel of the National Militia 54, encased in
rich Trim and issued to the father of peace.

Luis came suddenly.

- I like punctuality.

Come with me, and you will see if there is here for awhile.

They went into an adjoining room, entirely lined with books, where three shelves new oak and
occupied empty as many walls, showing their huge wooden hollow clean, freshly carved and impregnated
with the smell of varnish. In the center stood a large table, also full of books, plus books
everywhere: in soil, on top of stacked chairs and in the corners,
all jumbled like moving house where they went.

That day did not happen anymore but Don Luis gave some instructions to Pepe and he began to
tidy up the volume, then walking away with precise time for lunch before go to the Senate.
When leaving the house, quiet imagination, only asked a question: "What people will it?"

* * * * *

Pepe took three mornings to find volumes for coupling of different works, placing them then my best,
when the fourth day, while in the office leave of Don Luis, suddenly heard a door open cautiously
behind him and a woman's voice asked:

- I can go?

       

Miss the portrait was that of the pink pen.
 Some o' us called a halt an' stood out fer a council. We want you to
come on up.

"Woodhull's there," he added. "He sides with the old man, o' course. He rid on the same seat
with that gal all day till now. Lord knows what he done or said. Ain't hit nigh about time
now, Major?"

"It's nigh about time," said Will Banion quietly.

They rode side by side, past more than a mile of the covered wagons, now almost end to end,
the columns continually closing up. At the bank of the river, at the ferry head, they found
a group of fifty men. The ranks opened as Banion and Jackson approached, but Banion made no
attempt to join a council to which he had not been bidden.

A half dozen civilized Indians of the Kaws, owners or operators of the ferry, sat in a stolid
line across the head of the scow at its landing stage, looking neither to the right nor the
left and awaiting the white men's pleasure. Banion rode down to them.

"How deep?" he asked.

They understood but would not answer.

"Out of the way!" he cried, and rode straight at them. They scattered. He spurred his horse,
the black Spaniard, over the stage and on the deck of the scow, drove him its full length,
snorting; set the spurs hard at the farther end and plunged deliberately off into the swift,
muddy stream.

The horse sank out of sight below the roily surface. They saw the rider go down to his armpits;
saw him swing off saddle, upstream. The gallant horse headed for the center of the heavy current,
but his master soon turned him downstream and inshore. A hundred yards down they landed on
a bar and scrambled up the bank.

Banion rode to the circle and sat dripping. He had brought not speech but action, not theory
but facts, and he had not spoken a word.

His eyes covered the council rapidly, resting on the figure of Sam Woodhull, squatting on his
heels. As though to answer the challenge of his gaze, the latter rose.

"Gentlemen," said he, "I'm not, myself, governed by any mere spirit of bravado. It's swimming
water, yes--any fool knows that, outside of yon one. What I do say is that we can't afford
to waste time here fooling with that boat. We've got to swim it. I agree with you, Wingate.
This river's been forded by the trains for years, and I don't see as we need be any more chicken-hearted
than those others that went through last year and earlier. This is the old fur-trader crossing,
the Mormons crossed here, and so can we."

Silence met his words. The older men looked at the swollen stream, turned to the horseman who
had proved it.

"What does Major Banion say?" spoke up a voice.

"Nothing!" was Banion's reply. "I'm not in your council, am I?"

"You are, as much as any man here," spoke up Caleb Price, and Hall and Kelsey added yea to
that. "Get down. Come in."

Banion threw his rein to Jackson and stepped into the ring, bowing to Jesse Wingate, who sat
as presiding officer.

"Of course we want to hear what Mr. Banion has to say," said he. "He's proved part of the question
right now. I've always heard it's fording, part way, at Papin's Ferry. It don't look it now."

"The river's high, Mr. Wingate," said Banion. "If you ask me, I'd rather ferry than ford. I'd
send the women and children over by this boat. We can make some more out of the wagon boxes.
If they leak we can cover them with hides. The sawmill at the mission has some lumber. Let's
knock together another boat or two. I'd rather be safe than sorry, gentlemen; and believe me,
she's heavy water yonder."

"I've never seed the Kaw so full," asserted Jackson, "an' I've crossed her twenty times in
spring flood. Do what ye like, you-all--ole Missoury's goin' to take her slow an' keerful."

"Half of you Liberty men are a bunch of damned cowards!" sneered Woodhull.

There was silence. An icy voice broke it.

"I take it, that means me?" said Will Banion.

"It does mean you, if you want to take it that way," rejoined his enemy. "I don't believe in
one or two timid men holding up a whole train."

"Never mind about holding up the train--we're not stopping any man from crossing right now.
What I have in mind now is to ask you, do you classify me as a coward just because I counsel
prudence here?"

"You're the one is holding back."

"Answer me! Do you call that to me?"

"I do answer you, and I do call it to you then!" flared Woodhull.

"I tell you, you're a liar, and you know it, Sam Woodhull! And if it pleases your friends and
mine, I'd like to have the order now made on unfinished business."

Not all present knew what this meant, for only a few knew of the affair at the rendezvous,
the Missourians having held their counsel in the broken and extended train, where men might
travel for days and not meet. But Woodhull knew, and sprang to his feet, hand on revolver.
Banion's hand was likewise employed at his wet saddle holster, to which he sprang, and perhaps
then one man would have been killed but for Bill Jackson, who spurred between.

"Make one move an' I drop ye!" he called to Woodhull. "Ye've give yer promise."

"All right then, I'll keep it," growled Woodhull.

"Ye'd better! Now listen! Do ye see that tall cottingwood tree a half mile down--the one with
the flat umbreller top, like a cypress? Ye kin? Well, in half a hour be thar with three o'
yore friends, no more. I'll be thar with my man an' three o' his, no more, an' I'll be one
o' them three. I allow our meanin' is to see hit fa'r. An' I allow that what has been unfinished
business ain't goin' to be unfinished come sundown.

"Does this suit ye, Will?"

"It's our promise. Officers didn't usually fight that way, but you said it must be so, and
we both agreed. I agree now."

"You other folks all stay back," said Bill Jackson grimly. "This here is a little matter that
us Missourians is goin' to settle in our own way an' in our own camp. Hit ain't none o' you-uns'
business. Hit's plenty o' ourn."

Men started to their feet over all the river front. The Indians rose, walked down the bank
covertly.

"Fight!"

The word passed quickly. It was a day of personal encounters. This was an assemblage in large
part of fighting men. But some sense of decency led the partisans to hurry away, out of sight
and hearing of the womenfolk.

The bell-top cottonwood stood in a little space which had been a dueling ground for thirty
years. The grass was firm and even for a distance of fifty yards in any direction, and the
light at that hour favored neither man.

For Banion, who was prompt, Jackson brought with him two men. One of them was a planter by
name of Dillon, the other none less than stout Caleb Price, one of Wingate's chosen captains.

"I'll not see this made a thing of politics," said he. "I'm Northern, but I like the way that
young man has acted. He hasn't had a fair deal from the officers of this train. He's going
to have a fair deal now."

"We allow he will," said Dillon grimly.

He was fully armed, and so were all the seconds. For Woodhull showed the Kentuckian, Kelsey,
young Jed Wingate--the latter by Woodhull's own urgent request--and the other train captain,
Hall. So in its way the personal quarrel of these two hotheads did in a way involve the entire
train.

"Strip yore man," commanded the tall mountaineer. "We're ready. It's go till one hollers enough;
fa'r stand up, heel an' toe, no buttin' er gougin'. Fust man ter break them rules gits shot.
Is that yore understandin', gentlemen.

"How we get it, yes," assented Kelsey.

"See you enforce it then, fer we're a-goin' to," concluded Jackson.

He stepped back. From the opposite sides the two antagonists stepped forward. There was no
ring, there was no timekeeper, no single umpire. There were no rounds, no duration set. It
was man to man, for cause the most ancient and most bitter of all causes--sex.

CHAPTER IX

THE BRUTE

Between the two stalwart men who fronted one another, stripped to trousers and shoes, there
was not so much to choose. Woodhull perhaps had the better of it by a few pounds in weight,
and forsooth looked less slouchy out of his clothes than in them. His was the long and sinewy
type of muscle. He was in hard condition.

Banion, two years younger than his rival, himself was round and slender, thin of flank, a trace
squarer and fuller of shoulder. His arms showed easily rippling bands of muscles, his body
was hard in the natural vigor of youth and life in the open air. His eye was fixed all the
time on his man. He did not speak or turn aside, but walked on in.

There were no preliminaries, there was no delay. In a flash the Saxon ordeal of combat was
joined. The two fighters met in a rush.

At the center of the fighting space they hung, body to body, in a whirling melée. Neither had
much skill in real boxing, and such fashion of fight was unknown in that region, the offensive
being the main thing and defense remaining incidental. The thud of fist on face, the discoloration
that rose under the savage blows, the blood that oozed and scattered, proved that the fighting
blood of both these mad creatures was up, so that they felt no pain, even as they knew no fear.

In their first fly, as witnesses would have termed it, there was no advantage to either, and
both came out well marked. In the combat of the time and place there were no rules, no periods,
no resting times. Once they were dispatched to it, the fight was the affair of the fighters,
with no more than a very limited number of restrictions as to fouls.

They met and broke, bloody, gasping, once, twice, a dozen times. Banion was fighting slowly,
carefully.

"I'll make it free, if you dare!" panted Woodhull at length.

They broke apart once more by mutual need of breath. He meant he would bar nothing; he would
go back to the days of Boone and Kenton and Girty, when hair, eye, any part of the body was
fair aim.

"You can't dare me!" rejoined Will Banion. "It's as my seconds say."

Young Jed Wingate, suddenly pale, stood by and raised no protest. Kelsey's face was stony calm.
The small eye of Hall narrowed, but he too held to the etiquette of non-interference in this
matter of man and man, though what had passed here was a deadly thing. Mutilation, death might
now ensue, and not mere defeat. But they all waited for the other side.

"Air ye game to hit, Will?" demanded Jackson at length.

"I don't fear him, anyway he comes," replied Will Banion. "I don't like it, but all of this
was forced on me."

"The hell it was!" exclaimed Kelsey. "I heard ye call my man a liar."

"An' he called my man a coward!" cut in Jackson.

"He is a coward," sneered Woodhull, panting, "or he'd not flicker now. He's afraid I'll take
his eye out, damn him!"

Will Banion turned to his friends.

"Are we gentlemen at all?" said he. "Shall we go back a hundred years?"

"If your man's afraid, we claim the fight!" exclaimed Kelsey. "Breast yore bird!"

"So be it then!" said Will Banion. "Don't mind me, Jackson! I don't fear him and I think I
can beat him. It's free! I bar nothing, nor can he! Get back!"

Woodhull rushed first in the next assault, confident of his skill in rough-and-tumble. He felt
at his throat the horizontal arm of his enemy. He caught away the wrist in his own hand, but
sustained a heavy blow at the side of his head. The defense of his adversary angered him to
blind rage. He forgot everything but contact, rushed, closed and caught his antagonist in the
brawny grip of his arms. The battle at once resolved itself into the wrestling and battering
match of the frontier. And it was free! Each might kill or maim if so he could.

The wrestling grips of the frontiersmen were few and primitive, efficient when applied by masters;
and no schoolboy but studied all the holds as matter of religion, in a time when physical prowess
was the most admirable quality a man might have.

Each fighter tried the forward jerk and trip which sometimes would do with an opponent not
much skilled; but this primer work got results for neither. Banion evaded and swung into a
hip lock, so swift that Woodhull left the ground. But his instinct gave him hold with one hand
at his enemy's collar. He spread wide his feet and cast his weight aside, so that he came standing,
after all. He well knew that a man must keep his feet. Woe to him who fell when it all was
free! His own riposte was a snakelike glide close into his antagonist's arms, a swift thrust
of his leg between the other's--the grapevine, which sometimes served if done swiftly.

It was done swiftly, but it did not serve. The other spread his legs, leaned against him, and
in a flash came back in the dreaded crotch lock of the frontier, which some men boasted no
one could escape at their hands. Woodhull was flung fair, but he broke wide and rose and rushed
back and joined again, grappling; so that they stood once more body to body, panting, red,
savage as any animals that fight, and more cruel. The seconds all were on their feet, scarce
breathing.

They pushed in sheer test, and each found the other's stark strength. Yet Banion's breath still
came even, his eye betokened no anxiety of the issue. Both were bloody now, clothing and all.
Then in a flash the scales turned against the challenger a l'outrance.

Banion caught his antagonist by the wrist, and swift as a flash stooped, turning his own back
and drawing the arm of his enemy over his own shoulder, slightly turned, so that the elbow
joint was in peril and so that the pain must be intense. It was one of the jiu jitsu holds,
discovered independently perhaps at that instant; certainly a new hold for the wrestling school
of the frontier.

Woodhull's seconds saw the look of pain come on his face, saw him wince, saw him writhe, saw
him rise on his toes. Then, with a sudden squatting heave, Banion cast him full length in front
of him, upon his back! Before he had time to move he was upon him, pinning him down. A growl
came from six observers.

In an ordinary fall a man might have turned, might have escaped. But Woodhull had planned his
own undoing when he had called it free. Eyeless men, usually old men, in this day brought up
talk of the ancient and horrible warfare of a past generation, when destruction of the adversary
was the one purpose and any means called fair when it was free.

But the seconds of both men raised no hand when they saw the balls of Will Banion's thumbs
pressed against the upper orbit edge of his enemy's eyes.

"Do you say enough?" panted the victor.

A groan from the helpless man beneath.

"Am I the best man? Can I whip you?" demanded the voice above him, in the formula prescribed. 

CAP. XXXII. Of how we got the HEART of the deer.

In the town where we got the Efmeraldas, gave Dorantes over feifcientos HEART Deer open, they
have great abundance for fu fiempre maintenance, i by efto pufimos you name, the People of the HEART,
i for him is the entrance to many provinces, that eftàn à la Mar del Sur; i fi whom they are to
bufcar, for here does not fit, lose faith; COFTA because no Corn, i eat dust Bledo, Straw i,
i PEFC, which take the Ocean with BALF, because not reach Canoas. The women cover with Yerva
verguenças fus, i Paja. People mui is timid, i Trift. We believe that about COFTA, by way of those
People who nofotros Trux, ai more than a thousand leagues of land populated, i have a lot of maintenance,
because fiembran three times in the year Frifoles, i Corn. Deer Ai three ways, those of vna
of them fon sizes as Caftilla Steers: ai CAFAS of afiento, called Buhi, i have Yerva, i efto
is VNOs trees, the size of Mançanos, i is not get over menefter Fruit, i vntar Arrow with her fine
i have fruit, break vna Rama, i with Milk who have made it mefmo. Ai eftos many trees, which
ponçoñofos fon so that fi mash Sheets of it, i the laban in some water close to him, all the
deer, i qualefquier other Animals that drink it, then rebientan. In Pueblo EFTE eftuvimos three
days, i day VNA alli eftaba other in the many water qual took us that long because no crefciò Rio
vn you were unsuccessful in pafar, i fortnight we stopped there. In EFTE time he saw the neck
Caftillo Indian vn vna Efpada Evilleta of girdle of, i in her shoe nail cofido vn: tomòfela,
i preguntamosle that crow was that? i dixeronnos that havia come from Heaven. Preguntamosle
more, which who třída havia there? i refpondieron that men who wore beards VNOs as nofotros, which
come from Heaven havia, i arrived at that river, bringing horses i, i Lances Efpadas i, i havia
speared that two of them as much as i difimuladamente that they were unsuccessful in wonder, què
havia faith made those men? i refpondieronnos that faith havia gone to the sea, and that Lancer got vnder
the Water, i havia faith they also put on vnder, i defpues that saw them go top, the Sun Ada
puefta walked many lands, i all defpoblada find, because she went huiendo Denizens of the Sierras,
so OFAR CAFAS have, or till, for fear of the Chriftianos. Crow was that we had great laftima
mui, Earth watch mui fertile hermofa i mui, mui full of water i, i de Rios, i see the places
defpoblados, i burnt the people so skinny i, i ill, flight, i efcondida all, i like no fembraban,
so hungry, faith had with Cortec Tree, i estate. Of hunger efta à part nofotros reach around EFTE
road because they could provide us ill, eftando defventurados so that parefcia who wanted faith
to die. Blankets Truxeronnos of which havia efcondido by Chriftianos, dieronnoslas i: i still
contaronnos as at other times gone havia Chriftianos by the Earth, i havia deftruìdo, i burned
Peoples, i carried half of Men, all the women i, i guys, i fus the hands that have faith havia
efcapar, went huiendo. As viam so dismayed, so OFAR stop anywhere, i neither wanted, nor could fembrar,
or tilling the earth, before some of dexarfe eftaban die, i had it better than efto that fer
efperar treated with such cruelty, as hafta there, i moftraban grandifimo nofotros pleasure,
but feared that those who had arrived the border with Chriftianos, i war with them, we havia
of abuse, i make pagafemos, Chriftianos against what they were doing. But as God was fervent Nueftro
Lord bring us hafta them comenençaronnos to fear, i abide, as pafados, i even something more,
that there is little wonder: where faith sees clearly that all eftas People, attracted to fer Chriftianos
fer à i à Mageftad obedience of Imperial, has de fer taken with good treatment, that way i mui ETFE
is true, i other does not. Eftos Village took us to VN, which EFTA in vn Sierra vna knife, i have
faith in him by large fubir afpereça: i here, we found many people, that eftaba board, collected,
for fear of the Chriftianos. Mui Recibieronnos well, i dierronos quanto had, i dieronnos more than
two thousand loads of corn, which gave those mammals, i hungry, you hafta havia brought us there, i
other day from there four Menfageros defpachamos the Earth, as acoftumbrabamos do, so llamafen,
i convocafen People all over that pudiefen; à vn Pueblo, efta three days there, i made efto, another
day we left With all the people, that there eftaba: i fiempre Hallab raftro, havia where i stayed
Final Chriftianos, i came across nueftros à Menfageros noon, they told us that no havia found
People, who all walked the efcondidos Montes, huiendo because Chriftianos not matafen, i hiciefen
Efclavos: the night i havia vifto pafada the Chriftianos, eftando them behind of VNOs trees, watching
what they did, i saw how many Indians had in Chains: i of faith efto nofotros altered that came,
i some faith they returned, to avifo the Earth, and came Chriftianos, many more do i efto, do not
fi nofotros Dixer non hiciefen or tuviefen fear: i with faith efto afeguraron, i rejoiced greatly.
Nofotros Indians came then with a hundred leagues away, i we could not stop them that faith bolviefen
fus à CAFAS; i by afegurarlos, slept there that night, another day i walk, i slept on the road
figuiente i the day, those who havia EMBI by Menfageros, led us where they havia vifto the
Chriftianos; i arrived Vifperas time, it became clear, havia told the truth that i know people
who was on horseback, by Eftacas in Horses that havia eftado tied. Defde here, whose faith called
the Rio de Petutàn, hafta the Rio de Guzman Diego where he can haver hafta him where fupimos
of Chriftianos defde, eighty leagues: i defde the people there where we took the waters, twelve
leagues; i defde there, hafta la Mar del Sur, havia twelve leagues. Efta across Earth, where reach
Sierras, we Gold mueftras great, i Alcohol, iron, copper, other metals i. Where the CAFAS eftàn of
afiento is hot, therefore, that makes great heat in January. Acia Defde there noon, Land that
is defpoblada, hafta the North Sea, is defaftrada mui, i poor, where pafamos great, i unbelieveable
hunger that i live for that land, i walk, is crudelifima People, i mui bad inclination, i coftumbres.
The Indians, who have Cafa of breath, i the back, CAFOs are no Gold, Silver i, nor are they
able to haver advantage.

CAP. XXXIII. As we saw in Chriftianos raftro.

We saw raftro Defpues Chriftianos clear, i understood, how close eftabamos of them God we thank you
very much Nueftro Lord, for loving us so facar of Trift, i mammal captivity; i efto pleasure that
paired against, judge each VNO, when penfare at that time Eftuvimos Earth, the dangers i, i work
because pafamos.

That night I prayed to WNV my Companions Chriftianos fuefe after
that went by where were leaving Earth nofotros afegurada, i havia
three days' journey.

They were hico bad faith efto, efcufandofe by canfancio, i work i WNV although each of them could
do better than I, more fer tough, i more snot, but will vifta fu, another day in the morning I took with
me to the Black, i eleven Indians, the raftro that i was, Figures Chriftianos to, I went through
three locations, havia stayed where i EFTE day I walked ten miles, tomorrow's another day i
reach four Chriftianos Horse, which refcibieron great alteration in me so eftrañamente veftido,
in company i Indians. Efpacio Eftuvieronme much time looking so stunned, I did not even speak,
nor were right to ask me anything. Yo I told them that I llevafen where Captain eftaba fu:
i afi there were half a mile from where eftaba Diego de Alcaraz, who was the Captain, i defpues
of haverlo talked, he told me that there eftaba mui lost because havia many days that no havia
Indians have taken, i havia no where to go, because among them began to haver necefidad, i hunger dixe
I like Gone were Dorantes, i Caftillo that ten leagues eftaban there, with many people who brought
us havia i EMBI then three of horse, i fifty Indians, of what they brought: i the Black bolviò
with them to guide them, i I remained there, i asked, I Teftimonio Dief by Year, Month, i, i
Day, who arrived there havia, i the way they came, i did amphi. Rio De ETFE, hafta Chriftianos
the People of that faith called Sant Miguel, who is of the Governacion of the Province, who say
New Galicia ai thirty leagues.

CAP. XXXIV. How EMBI by Chriftianos.

Pafados five days, Andrés Dorantes, i Alonfo of Caftillo with which havia gone for them, i
brought over feifcientas Configo Perfonas, who were from that village, that Havia Chriftianos
fubir Mount fact, i went efcondidos the Earth, which i hafta havia nofotros there to come,
the facado havia de los Montes, I awarded the Chriftianos, i havia
defpedido them all the other people, which brought havia hafta there,
i come where I eftaba, Alcaraz begged me, they call the People embiafemos
Peoples, which eftàn à vera del Rio, who went by the Forestry afcondidos
Earth mandafemos them that i truxefen eating, although it was not
menefter efto because they had care fiempre bring all what they could,
then i EMBI Menfageros nueftros à llamafen that, i came feifcientas
Perfonas, they brought us all the corn to reach, i VNAs they brought
in pots covered with mud, in which the buried havia, i efcondido,
i they brought us everything but they had, but nofotros Quifa not
take it all, fine food, i gave everything else to Chriftianos, to
each other as repartiefen; i pafamos efto defpues of many, i big quarrels
with them because we wanted to make the Indians traìmos Efclavos;
i with ETFE anger, the breaking we left many Turquefcos Arcos, which
he had, many Çurrones i, i Arrows, i including five in the Efmeraldas,
faith not remember them, i amphi we lost.

We gave Vaca Chriftianos many blankets, i other mastheads that brought:
Vimon with the Indians in much work, because faith bolviefen fus à
CAFAS, i faith afegurafen, i fembrafen fu Corn.

They did not want fine go with nofotros, hafta dexarnos as acoftumbraban with other Indians,
because faith bolviefen fi In order to efto, feared that faith would die, who to go with nofotros
not afraid of Chriftianos, fus or Lancaster. At the efto Chriftianos pefaba them, i did, that
they dixefe Language fu, that we were of them nofotros mifmos, i havia we lost many times havia,
i we were Of little strong, i value, i that they were the lords of this land, whom havia of obedefcer,
i fervid. But all efto the Indians had in mui little or nothingness of what they they said: VNOs
before others, talked with eachother, saying that the Chriftianos lying, because nofotros Falia
forth from the sun, i put them where faith: i that the Fanabe nofotros sick, i killed them
orphans who eftaban: i that we came defnudos nofotros, i defcalços, they veftidos i, i in Horses,
Lance i: i that we did not covetousness nofotros any crow, but every quanto gave us, then give
Tornabe, we remained with nothing i, i the others had no other purpose, steal all quanto were
fine, i never gave anything to anyone, i nueftras relatively efta all mastheads, the encarefcian
i instead of the other; i afi refpondieron them into the language of the Chriftianos, i did
it mifmo faber other, by vna Language, that among these havia, whom we understood, i call those
who vfan Primahaitu propria (which is to say Vafcongados) the qual more than four hundred
Leagues from which we came, we found vfada including haver order one for all those Lands. Finally
he could never wipe out the Indians believe, we were on the other Chriftianos, i with hard work,
i importunity the fus à Bolvar hecimos CAFAS, i sent them that faith afegurafen, i afentafen fus
Peoples fembrafen i, i labrafen Earth, which eftaba defpoblada eftàr Monte ia mui full, so the qual
culprit is the best in eftas Indies quantas ai, i most fertile i abundofa of Maintenance, i fiembran
three times in the year. He has many fruit, i mui hermofos Rios, i mui good many waters. Ai
mueftras great, i Final Gold Mine, i Plata People mui it is well equipped: Firvida to Chriftianos
(which fon friend) mui goodwill. Mui difpueftos are much more than those in Mexico, i finally,
is Earth lacks any crow, for fer mui good. Defpedidos the Indians, they told us, they would
do what we sent, i afentarian Peoples fus, fi the Chriftianos the dexaban; i afi I tell you, i mui
asserted by some, that fi does not do so, because of the atmosphere Chriftianos.

Defpues that hovimos mailed to the Indians at peace, i regraciadoles work with nofotros havia
pafado, the EMBI us Chriftianos (vnder caution) à vn Cebreros, Mayor, i with the other two.
And when they took us through the mountains, i defpoblados, and away from the converfacion
of the Indians, because i Vief or entendiefemos what actually did: where parefce quanto deceive
the penfamientos faith of men, that they were walking bufcar nofotros freedom Quando i penfabamos
that we had, so fucediò the contrary, because they had agreed to go to give the Indians embiabamos,
afegurados, i peace, i amphi as Penfed, did: Montes llevaronnos for those two days, so water,
lost, i end road, all i Penfed perefcer of fed, i drowned her faith we Fiete Men, i have many
friends, that Chriftianos brought config, could not hafta get another day at noon, where we found
that night Water nofotros i i walk with them twenty-five leagues, little more, or less, i finally
vn individuals go to the Peace People of Indian, i the Mayor that took us there I leave us,
i stepped forward other three leagues Village VII, whose faith called Culiacan, where Melchior eftaba
Diaz, Mayor Maior, i Captain of that Province.

CAP. XXXV. Of how the Mayor Maior refcibiò us good night we arrived.

As Mayor of nueftra Maior was avifado falida, i come, then left that night, eftabamos nofotros
where i came, i cry a lot with nofotros, giving praise to God Nueftro Lord vfado molested for
so much mifericordia with nofotros, i speaks, i mui is good, i from
the Governor Nuño de Guzman, i got on, we ofrefciò everything I had,
i could i moftrò much fentimiento of bad reception, i treatment, which
Alcaraz, i found the other havia; i had indeed that the faith was
there fi, faith so that nofotros efcufara, i with Indian hico faith;
i pafada that night, another day we left, i asked the Mayor Maior
us much, we detuviefemos there, i would we do that in efto fervicio
mui great God, I to V. Mag because the Earth eftaba defpoblada, so
labrarfe, i all deftruìda mui, i walked Indians efcondidos, i escaped
through the mountains, so do want to come in fus afiento Peoples,
i that embiafemos à the call, i will mandafemos, from God, and V.
Mag that viniefen, i poblafen on the plain, i labrafen Earth.

A efto nofotros parefciò we put in dificultofo mui Indeed, because none of the Indian traìmos
nueftros, or the leaf we accompany, i understand eftas mastheads. Finally venturing efto two
Indians who brought the captives there, mifmos were of the earth, i havia eftos found faith with Chriftianos,
when first come to them, i saw the people who accompanied us, i fupieron lot of them authority,
i domain, all lands that brought havia, i had, i Wonderland that havia fact, i havia curing the
sick, many mastheads i, i with Indian eftos People's rule others, who together fuefen, i llamafen
the Indians, who eftaban by Ranges Mayor, i Petaan those of Rio, where they found the Chriftianos
havia, i that dixefen them that viniefen à nofotros because they wanted to talk, i for fuefen
feguros, i viniefen other, we gave vn nofotros Calabaçon of which he had in his hands (which was
principal nueftra infignia, i mueftra high eftado) i with ETFE they were, i walked Fiete days
over there, i the order they came, they brought i Configo three Lords of which eftaban Mayors
for the Sierras, bringing fifteen men, they brought us accounts i, i Turquefas, i Plumas, i
the Menfageros they told us that no havia found the natives of Rio where falido havia because the
havia Chriftianos done it again flee to the mountains, i the Melchior
Diaz said to the language, that part will hablafe nueftra those Indians,
i dixefe them as came from God, that EFTA in Heaven, i walked to the
World havia many years, All People saying that havia found that creiefen
in God, and what firviefen because was Lord of all mastheads quantas
havia in the world, i was the reward, i paid the good, i life imprisonment
the wicked fire, i that when the good die, take them to Heaven, where
no one died, or were hungry or cold, or fed, or any other necefidad,
the maior fine glory, that faith could Penfed, i that he does not
want to believe, nor obedefcer fus Commandments, threw them vnder
the earth, in the company of Hell, i large fire qual havia the faith
never finishing, fine fiempre tormented, that beyond the efto i, fi
fer quifiefen Chriftianos them, i fervid God, the way they mandafemos,
that Brothers Chriftianos Terni them, i would treat mui well, i would
send nofotros, hiciefen they do not no anger, nor fus facafen of Lands,
fine large fuefen Friends fuios: more than fi efto quifiefen not do,
they would try mui Chriftianos wrong, i faith Efclavos lead to other
lands.

A efto refpondieron to the language, they mui fairs Chriftianos good,
i fervirian to God we worship i asked, i facrificaban, i à who asked
for the Water for Maìçales fus, i la falud for them?

Refpondieron that VN Man that eftaba in Heaven. Preguntamosles, as a faith called? And they
said, that Aguar, i who believed, havia raised the entire world, i the tops of it. Tornamosles questions,
as fabian efto? And refpondieron that fus Parents, Grandparents faith what havia i said, it had
many times efto news, i fabian, that water, i all good mastheads that the EMBI. Nofotros diximos
them which one they were saying, nofotros we called him God, and that it llamafen amphi them,
it firviefen i, i adorafen as Mandab, i faith they would find it rather mui. Refpondieron,
mui had everything provided, afi i that they would do, i mandamosles that baxafen of Saws,
i viniefen feguros, i alone, i poblafen whole earth, i hiciefen CAFAS fus, i that hiciefen including
vna to God, and the entry pufiefen vna Cruz, as we had there, i that when there's Chriftianos
viniefen, the faliefen à Cruces refcebir with hands, Arches end, i end Armas, i the fus à llevafen
CAFAS, i will eat Dief of what they had, by efta i would do them so badly before fus fairs Friends;
i them they said that it amphi nofotros would do what we sent as: i, Captain gave Mantas, i
mui treated well, i afi faith they returned, carrying two, eftaban captivity, i havia Menfageros
gone by. It went Efto PREFERENCES of Efcrivano in which there had, i many Teftigos.

CAP. XXXVI. How do Iglefias hecimos in that Land.

As the Indians faith they returned, all of that Province, who were Friends of the Chriftianos, and
learned of nofotros, came to see us, they brought us accounts i, i Feathers; i nofotros we
send that hiciefen Iglefias, i pufiefen Cruces in them, because then hafta havia not done, i
hecimos bring the children of the lady, i baptiçarlos; i Litigation hico then Captain omenage
God, not to do, or any entry confentir do, or take Efclavo the Earth, i People, which nofotros
afegurado havia, i would keep that efto, i met, hafta that Mageftad fu, i the Governor Nuño de
Guzman, or in fu name Viforrei proveiefen as more fuefe fervicio of God fu i baptize Mag i
defpues of Children we departed for the town of San Miguel, where Indians came as we arrived, which
we were told, as many people came down from the Sierras, i populated on the plain, i to Iglefias,
i Cruces, i havia everything I commanded you: i each day had new faith was as efto doing, I meet more
fully, i pafados fifteen days, that there aviamos eftado, arrived Alcaraz with Chriftianos that
havia been in that entry, I told the captain, as were downloaded from the Sierra Indians, i havia
village on the plain, i havia found Peoples with many people, that first eftaban defpoblados,
i defiertos, i that the Indians were falieron Cruces to receive with the hands, i took them
to fus CAFAS, i gave them what they had, i slept with them there that night. Efpantados such
a novelty, that the Indians i les they said, as eftaban afegurados ia, he ordered them not hiciefen
wrong, i amphi defpidieron faith. Lord God Nueftro mifericordia infinite fu want, which in
the days of V. Mageftad, i below of vueftro Power, i Lordship, eftas fer people to come to truly,
i with total willingness fujetas the true Lord who created, i redeemed. What we certainly qual
afi atmosphere, i to V. Mageftad has to be the one who has to put into effect (atmosphere
not so hard to do) because two thousand leagues that traveled by land, i by the Sea in Boats,
another ten Mefes i that falidos defpues of Captiva, so we walked the Earth stop, we found Sacrifices
or Idolatry. In EFTE VNA Mar travefamos time to another, i on the news that diligently reach
out to understand the other COFTA vna, so width can haver two hundred leagues i reach out to
understand, that the COFTA South Pearl ai, i much enriches, i everything better, richer i
efta near it. In the town of San Miguel eftuvimos hafta fortnight Month Maio, i stop the CAUF
of both there was because there hafta City Compoftela, where the Governor Nuño de Guzman refidia,
ai hundred leagues, i all defpobladas fon, enemies i: i ovieron nofotros go with People, in
which were twenty horse, we hafta accompanied forty leagues from there i came out with nofotros
Chriftianos feis, that brought five hundred Indians made Efclavos, i arrived in Compoftela,
Governor refcibiò us mui well, what i had gave us veftir: qual so many days I could not bring,
or We could sleep fine in the fuel: i pafados ten or twelve days, we left for Mexico, i by all the way
we were well treated by the Chriftianos, i Falia many of us see for Roads, i gave thanks to God
of underworld rid of so many dangers.
 The Eskimo
plover in vast bands circled and sought their nesting places. Came also the sweep of cinnamon
wings as the giant sickle-billed curlews wheeled in vast aerial phalanx, with their eager cries,
"Curlee! Curlee! Curlee!"--the wildest cry of the old prairies. Again, from some unknown, undiscoverable
place, came the liquid, baffling, mysterious note of the nesting upland plover, sweet and clean
as pure white honey.

Now and again a band of antelope swept ghostlike across a ridge. A great gray wolf stood contemptuously
near on a hillock, gazing speculatively at the strange new creature, the white woman, new come
in his lands. It was the wilderness, rude, bold, yet sweet.

Who shall say what thoughts the flowered wilderness of spring carried to the soul of a young
woman beautiful and ripe for love, her heart as sweet and melting as that of the hidden plover
telling her mate of happiness? Surely a strange spell, born of youth and all this free world
of things beginning, fell on the soul of Molly Wingate. She sat and dreamed, her hands idle,
her arms empty, her beating pulses full, her heart full of a maid's imaginings.

How long she sat alone, miles apart, an unnoticed figure, she herself could not have said--surely
the sun was past zenith--when, moved by some vague feeling of her own, she noticed the uneasiness
of her feeding charges.

The mules, hobbled and side-lined as Jed had shown her, turned face to the wind, down the valley,
standing for a time studious and uncertain rather than alarmed. Then, their great ears pointed,
they became uneasy; stirred, stamped, came back again to their position, gazing steadily in
the one direction.

The ancient desert instinct of the wild ass, brought down through thwarted generations, never
had been lost to them. They had foreknowledge of danger long before horses or human beings
could suspect it.

Danger? What was it? Something, surely. Molly sprang to her feet. A band of antelope, running,
had paused a hundred yards away, gazing back. Danger--yes; but what?

The girl ran to the crest of the nearest hillock and looked back. Even as she did so, it seemed
that she caught touch of the great wave of apprehension spreading swiftly over the land.

Far off, low lying like a pale blue cloud, was a faint line of something that seemed to alter
in look, to move, to rise and fall, to advance--down the wind. She never had seen it, but knew
what it must be--the prairie fire! The lack of fall burning had left it fuel even now.

Vast numbers of prairie grouse came by, hurtling through the silence, alighting, strutting
with high heads, fearlessly close. Gray creatures came hopping, halting or running fully extended--the
prairie hares, fleeing far ahead. Band after band of antelope came on, running easily, but
looking back. A heavy line of large birds, black to the eye, beat on laboriously, alighted,
and ran onward with incredible speed--the wild turkeys, fleeing the terror. Came also broken
bands of white-tailed deer, easy, elastic, bounding irregularly, looking back at the miles-wide
cloud, which now and then spun up, black as ink toward the sky, but always flattened and came
onward with the wind.

Danger? Yes! Worse than Indians, for yonder were the cattle; there lay the parked train, two
hundred wagons, with the household goods that meant their life savings and their future hope
in far-off Oregon. Women were there, and children--women with babes that could not walk. True,
the water lay close, but it was narrow and deep and offered no salvation against the terror
now coming on the wings of the wind.

That the prairie fire would find in this strip fuel to carry it even at this green season of
the grass the wily Pawnees had known. This was cheaper than assault by arms. They would wither
and scatter the white nation here! Worse than plumed warriors was yonder broken undulating
line of the prairie fire.

Instinct told the white girl, gave her the same terror as that which inspired all these fleeing
creatures. But what could she do? This was an elemental, gigantic wrath, and she but a frightened
girl. She guessed rather than reasoned what it would mean when yonder line came closer, when
it would sweep down, roaring, over the wagon train.

The mules began to bray, to plunge, too wise to undertake flight. She would at least save them.
She would mount one and ride with the alarm for the camp.

The wise animals let her come close, did not plunge, knew that she meant help, allowed her
trembling hands to loose one end of the hobble straps, but no more. As soon as each mule got
its feet it whirled and was away. No chance to hold one of them now, and if she had mounted
a hobbled animal it had meant nothing. But she saw them go toward the stream, toward the camp.
She must run that way herself.

It was so far! There was a faint smell of smoke and a mysterious low humming in the air. Was
it too late?

A swift, absurd, wholly useless memory came to her from the preceding day. Yes, it would be
no more than a prayer, but she would send it out blindly into the air.... Some instinct--yes,
quite likely.

Molly ran to her abandoned wagonette, pushed in under the white tilt where her pallet bed lay
rolled, her little personal plunder stored about. Fumbling, she found her sulphur matches.
She would build her signal fire. It was, at least, all that she could do. It might at least
alarm the camp.

Trembling, she looked about her, tore her hands breaking off little faggots of tall dry weed
stems, a very few bits of wild thorn and fragments of a plum thicket in the nearest shallow
coulee. She ran to her hillock, stooped and broke a dozen matches, knowing too little of fire-making
in the wind. But at last she caught a wisp of dry grass, a few dry stems--others, the bits
of wild plum branches. She shielded her tiny blaze with her frock, looking back over her shoulder,
where the black curtain was rising taller. Now and then, even in the blaze of full day, a red,
dull gleam rose and passed swiftly. The entire country was afire. Fuel? Yes; and a wind.

The humming in the air grew, the scent of fire came plainly. The plover rose around their nests
and circled, crying piteously. The scattered hares became a great body of moving gray, like
camouflage blots on the still undulating waves of green and silver, passing but not yet past--soon
now to pass.

The girl, her hands arrested, her arms out, in her terror, stood trying to remember. Yes, it
was three short puffs and a long pillar. She caught her shawl from her shoulder, stooped, spread
it with both hands, drove in her stiffest bough for a partial support, cast in under the edge,
timidly, green grass enough to make smoke, she hoped.

An instant and she sprang up, drawing the shawl swiftly aside, the next moment jealously cutting
through the smoke with a side sweep of the covering.

It worked! The cut-off column rose, bent over in a little detached cloud. Again, with a quick
flirt, eager eyed, and again the detached irregular ball! A third time--Molly rose, and now
cast on dry grass and green grass till a tall and moving pillar of cloud by day arose.

At least she had made her prayer. She could do no more. With vague craving for any manner of
refuge, she crawled to her wagon seat and covered her eyes. She knew that the wagon train was
warned--they now would need but little warning, for the menace was written all across the world.

She sat she knew not how long, but until she became conscious of a roaring in the air. The
line of fire had come astonishingly soon, she reasoned. But she forgot that. All the vanguard
and the full army of wild creatures had passed by now. She alone, the white woman, most helpless
of the great creatures, stood before the terror.

She sprang out of the wagon and looked about her. The smoke crest, black, red-shot, was coming
close. The grass here would carry it. Perhaps yonder on the flint ridge where the cover was
short--why had she not thought of that long ago? It was half a mile, and no sure haven then.

She ran, her shawl drawn about her head--ran with long, free stride, her limbs envigored by
fear, her full-bosomed body heaving chokingly. The smoke was now in the air, and up the unshorn
valley came the fire remorselessly, licking up the under lying layer of sun-cured grass which
a winter's snow had matted down.

She could never reach the ridge now. Her overburdened lungs functioned but little. The world
went black, with many points of red. Everywhere was the odor and feel of smoke. She fell and
gasped, and knew little, cared little what might come. The elemental terror at last had caught
its prey--soft, young, beautiful prey, this huddled form, a bit of brown and gray, edged with
white of wind-blown skirt. It would be a sweet morsel for the flames.

Along the knife-edged flint ridge which Molly had tried to reach there came the pounding of
hoofs, heavier than any of these that had passed. The cattle were stampeding directly down
wind and before the fire. Dully, Molly heard the lowing, heard the far shouts of human voices.
Then, it seemed to her, she heard a rush of other hoofs coming toward her. Yes, something was
pounding down the slope toward her wagon, toward her. Buffalo, she thought, not knowing the
buffalo were gone from that region.

But it was not the buffalo, nor yet the frightened herd, nor yet her mules. Out of the smoke
curtain broke a rider, his horse flat; a black horse with flying frontlet--she knew what horse.
She knew what man rode him, too, black with smoke as he was now. He swept close to the wagon
and was off. Something flickered there, with smoke above it, beyond the wagon by some yards.
Then he was in saddle and racing again, his eyes and teeth white in the black mask of his face.

She heard no call and no command. But an arm reached down to hers, swept up--and she was going
onward, the horn of a saddle under her, her body held to that of the rider, swung sidewise.
The horse was guided not down but across the wind.

Twice and three times, silent, he flung her off and was down, kindling his little back fires--the
only defense against a wildfire. He breathed thickly, making sounds of rage.

"Will they never start?" he broke out at last. "The fools--the fools!"

But by now it was too late. A sudden accession in the force of the wind increased the speed
of the fire. The little line near Molly's wagon spared it, but caught strength. Could she have
seen through the veils of smoke she would have seen a half dozen fires this side the line of
the great fire. But fire is fire.

Again he was in saddle and had her against his thigh, his body, flung any way so she came with
the horse. And now the horse swerved, till he drove in the steel again and again, heading him
not away from the fire but straight into it!

Molly felt a rush of hot air; surging, actual flame singed the ends of her hair. She felt his
hand again and again sweep over her skirts, wiping out the fire as it caught. It was blackly
hot, stifling--and then it was past!

Before her lay a wide black world. Her wagon stood, even its white top spared by miracle of
the back fire. But beyond came one more line of smoke and flame. The black horse neighed now
in the agony of his hot hoofs. His rider swung him to a lower level, where under the tough
cover had lain moist ground, on which uncovered water now glistened. He flung her into the
mire of it, pulled up his horse there and himself lay down, full length, his blackened face
in the moist mud above which still smoked stubbles of the flame-shorn grass. He had not spoken
to her, nor she to him. His eyes rested on the singed ends of her blown hair, her charred garments,
in a frowning sympathy which found no speech. At length he brought the reins of his horse to
her, flirting up the singed ends of the long mane, further proof of their narrow escape. 

I infer from this that all the mischief of Miss Eulalia and its duplicity and lies were indispensable,
for the honor, honesty, candor and innocence of Ignatius appeared enhancement, as a bright and full
of beauty on the dark background of the picture.

The effort that has the Duchess to seduce Ignacio and elegant and convoluted means of is worth to
get it, I think so well brought as beautifully described, and should not scare people more prudish.
Representation and narration by circumstances are and despite all the truth and vividness with which
paint should not be taken as immoral. The sacred and profane stories
are full of similar cases. She now saw his hands, which he was thrusting out on the mud to
cool them, and sympathy was in her gaze also.

"I don't know why I came," said he. "Didn't you signal for me? Jackson told me you could."

"No, I had no hope. I meant no one. It was only a prayer."

"It carried ten miles. We were all back-firing. It caught in the sloughs--all the strips of
old grass. I thought of your camp, of you. At least your signal told me where to ride."

At length he waved his hand.

"They're safe over there," said he. "Think of the children!"

"Yes, and you gave me my one chance. Why?"

"I don't know. I suppose it was because I am a brute!" The bitterness of his voice was plain.

"Come, we must go to the wagons," said Molly at length, and would have risen.

"No, not yet. The burned ground must cool before we can walk on it. I would not even take my
horse out on it again." He lifted a foot of the black Spaniard, whose muzzle quivered whimperingly.
"All right, old boy!" he said, and stroked the head thrust down to him. "It might have been worse."

His voice was so gentle that Molly Wingate felt a vague sort of jealousy. He might have taken
her scorched hand in his, might at least have had some thought for her welfare. He did speak
at last as to that.

"What's in your wagon?" he asked. "We had better go there to wait. Have you anything along--oil,
flour, anything to use on burns? You're burned. It hurts me to see a woman suffer."

"Are not you burned too?"

"Yes."

"It pains you?"

"Oh, yes, of course."

He rose and led the way over the damper ground to the wagon, which stood smoke-stained but
not charred, thanks to his own resourcefulness.

Molly climbed up to the seat, and rummaging about found a jar of butter, a handful of flour.

"Come up on the seat," said she. "This is better medicine than nothing."

He climbed up and sat beside her. She frowned again as she now saw how badly scorched his hands
were, his neck, his face. His eyebrows, caught by one wisp of flame, were rolled up at the
ends, whitened. One cheek was a dull red.

Gently, without asking his consent, she began to coat his burned skin as best she might with
her makeshift of alleviation. His hand trembled under hers.

"Now," she said, "hold still. I must fix your hand some more."

She still bent over, gently, delicately touching his flesh with hers. And then all in one mad,
unpremeditated instant it was done!

His hand caught hers, regardless of the pain to either. His arm went about her, his lips would
have sought hers.

It was done! Now he might repent.

A mad way of wooing, inopportune, fatal as any method he possibly could have found, moreover
a cruel, unseemly thing to do, here and with her situated thus. But it was done.

Till now he had never given her grounds for more than guessing. Yet now here was this!

He came to his senses as she thrust him away; saw her cheeks whiten, her eyes grow wide.

"Oh!" she said. "Oh! Oh! Oh!"

"Oh!" whispered Will Banion to himself, hoarsely.

He held his two scorched hands each side her face as she drew back, sought to look into her
eyes, so that she might believe either his hope, his despair or his contrition.

But she turned her eyes away. Only he could hear her outraged protest--"Oh! Oh! Oh!"

CHAPTER XIV

THE KISS

"It was the wind!" Will Banion exclaimed. "It was the sky, the earth! It was the fire! I don't
know what it was! I swear it was not I who did it! Don't forgive me, but don't blame me. Molly!
Molly!

"It had to be sometime," he went on, since she still drew away from him. "What chance have
I had to ask you before now? It's little I have to offer but my love."

"What do you mean? It will never be at any time!" said Molly Wingate slowly, her hand touching
his no more.

"What do you yourself mean?" He turned to her in agony of soul. "You will not let me repent?
You will not give me some sort of chance?"

"No," she said coldly. "You have had chance enough to be a gentleman--as much as you had when
you were in Mexico with other women. But Major William Banion falsified the regimental accounts.
I know that too. I didn't--I couldn't believe it--till now."

He remained dumb under this. She went on mercilessly.

"Oh, yes, Captain Woodhull told us. Yes, he showed us the very vouchers. My father believed
it of you, but I didn't. Now I do. Oh, fine! And you an officer of our Army!"

She blazed out at him now, her temper rising.

"Chance? What more chance did you need? No wonder you couldn't love a girl--any other way than
this. It would have to be sometime, you say. What do you mean? That I'd ever marry a thief?"

Still he could not speak. The fire marks showed livid against a paling cheek.

"Yes, I know you saved me--twice, this time at much risk," resumed the girl. "Did you want
pay so soon? You'd--you'd--"

"Oh! Oh! Oh!"

It was his voice that now broke in. He could not speak at all beyond the exclamation under torture.

"I didn't believe that story about you," she added after a long time. "But you are not what
you looked, not what I thought you were. So what you say must be sometime is never going to
be at all."

"Did he tell you that about me?" demanded Will Banion savagely. "Woodhull--did he say that?"

"I have told you, yes. My father knew. No wonder he didn't trust you. How could he?"

She moved now as though to leave the wagon, but he raised a hand.

"Wait!" said he. "Look yonder! You'd not have time now to reach camp."

In the high country a great prairie fire usually or quite often was followed by a heavy rainstorm.
What Banion now indicated was the approach of yet another of the epic phenomena of the prairies,
as rapid, as colossal and as merciless as the fire itself.

On the western horizon a low dark bank of clouds lay for miles, piled, serrated, steadily rising
opposite to the course of the wind that had driven the fire. Along it more and more visibly
played almost incessant sheet lightning, broken with ripping zigzag flames. A hush had fallen
close at hand, for now even the frightened breeze of evening had fled. Now and then, at first
doubtful, then unmistakable and continuous, came the mutter and rumble and at length the steady
roll of thunder. Is something wrong at home?

- No: if I left I was almost at the same
time as you!

Nothing happens, but I want to talk.

Dona Manuela entered in the pharmacy, esperola him outside, and just
saw her leave, continued to Thus, while she obediently followed him:

-
Let's go there next, the portico of San Isidro .-- And they went up
the stairs of the church.

- Look at you, mother, I will not shut
up: I disgustadísimo.

Since I have arrived in Madrid a heart full of sadness ...

- I understand, son, our situation is not without reason.

If you saw the bay ever! ... And what's left! ...

- There's nothing like that.

- I do not understand you.

- Now you
understand me My duty was to tell my father that I will tell you,
but I think that you will understand me better, also his character
and state ... Later I'll see what I have to do.

- Character, you say?

If the poor are not upset or annoyed anyone ever!

...

- Maybe that goodness we have much to mourn.

- Explain, by God, my
son!

- Yes, mother, much to mourn and to feel.

Well, Clarita, at home no religion, and where takes religion all
is lost.

So God punished you.

- God punish!

- I seem to you a few sentences that disease, the scarcity of such
suffering!

...

- And what did we do?

We all work. Have not you seen the life they lead your brothers and what I labors?

- Ask what you can do!

It seems impossible! It is impossible for God to help you.

Vainly sought to provide sweetness to his phrases, the extraordinary vividness of an accused
eyes strong resolution.

- No, mother, do not expect you relief or protection. At home there is no religion, no praying,
no practice a single devotion ... Da creeps thinking.

For almost a month since I'm in Madrid I have seen many sad things! Not a prayer, nor an act
of mercy!

I understand that father not go to church, although it may well replace it with some acts of devotion
and penance; But what about you? Leocadia what? What about Pepe? You live as heretics! I confess,
mother, I doubted much before taking this step, but my duty is first and foremost. Do not you feel
afraid ... shame to live well?

- And what do you want? I do not control ... I take care of the house ... and nothing more: cleaning
... work and more work ... I do not know!

- Clean and working! With that you think has been accomplished!

When the Lord takes this world, that will ... unfortunately, is save
you to have had the house neat?

The house clean and the black soul by sin! All neatly for oneself, all work for the same,
and not a visit to the house of God, not a thought for Mother Divine! Da anger to see him!

Doña Manuela heard in silence, overwhelmed with this unexpected disappointment, that even for low
intelligence was a sign of bigger ones.

The vehemence of Tirso became exacerbated therefore the poor old
woman could not help but say, almost angrily:

- Son, no slapping,
people see us!

He was already possessed of his role, and would not listen.

- There is no son!

There is but one priest who had seen the foul leprosy of atheism
and wants to heal.

Did you hear, mother? If you do not help me, I will just ... I will try alone, and if I can not
do, I'll tell you all face to face, shake at the door the dust off my shoes, like the patriarchs
of Israel as they left the house of the wicked, and you will not
see me ever again.

- And the scandal and disgust your father will
die.

- What more death than we have up?

The heart closed to pity ... If you simply enter there to be convinced!

... Pictures of prisoners liberals on the walls, newspapers perverse
those selling in the streets, carrying noveluchas comedies of the
press that Miller and that you allow to read Leocadia, bad books ...
and throughout the house there is an image of the Virgin or a wooden
cross ...

- I do not control ...

- Well, you need to send In the
absence of a father, and we as missing, you are the should govern:
I'll help ... and choose you, mother to remedy the evil, or let the
remedy myself, against my father, against Pepe, against all.

- No,
son of my soul, my God, why not, Pepe did not talk about these things!

-
Ah!

Do you have fear? Not me.

They spoke quietly, alone in a corner of the churchyard, while looking at them curiously a woman
on the steps of selling prints, framed faces of God tin, groundnuts, hawthorn and torrao. Tirso intimidating
gestures gesticulating with his mother broken-she, and eager to cut the dialogue, looked alternately
at the floor and onto the sidewalk opposite where was the pharmacy. The charges of impiety did
not at first impressive; Tirso but when presented as the cause of the evils suffered and promise
of eternal punishment, womanly weakness gave the thrust of the believer.

What set her worst, was the threat of would talk to Pepe.

They kept silent for a moment: he, doubtful of the success of your
business, she, embarrassed, anxious to escape the violent influence
of his son, to subdue it better, just say it: "I am but a priest."

-
Are we going to the pharmacy? - Finally dared to ask the mother.

-
Wait for you, do not want us to separate well.

You have to promise before the rescue.

Will it work You with me so that we are all Christians, and I understand I with Pepe and my father?
Can you imagine you live holy by not doing harm to others? What blindness! What about yourself?
What about your salvation? Pray you, mother, this is the first, and God's light and remove them from
your soul that apathy come You to church, and little to awaken the good feelings, you will stop
laughing antics sacrilegious my brother, you shall burn with desire for help. Did you promise?

-
Yes, my son - said embarrassed - but Pepe did not tell any of this.

- As I understand it is him who is to blame for what happens! We agreed that you are mine, ie
God, otherwise I will leave for good, after declaring openly to all I do not want to live among
Jews.

Slowly descended the stairs of the court, Tirso waited at the door
of the shop and saw leaving his mother with a bottle in his hand,
said:

- Both care, such request to seek remedy for the ills of the
body that do not matter nothing and no one thought to the health of
the soul!

Remember what you just mentioned.

Then he left her, leaving her confused and frightened, a woman who's just been amazing committing a
crime. Sin, condemnation, impiety, had sounded in their ears how empty words, the warnings
of a Bossuet had not exercised in she most empire. What was left unnerved about the threat of
her husband and Pepe, safe that reduced Tirso counterclaim sour cause a scene, perhaps a break and
a grave disappointment. What could she do about it? Nothing. To tell pulse felt all to get home,
but then what? Don Jose may cede anything, to please the child present, as private lived many
years more, what would Pepe seeing their mimics, their care, their jobs to avoid any distress
to his father were sterilized with interference Tirso in the life of the house? Dona Manuela
was not able to analyze the conflict, and their willingness hard to meet. The low energy applied all
his soul into the house with dry eyes.

* * * * *

       

Arrived on Sunday morning went very Tirso, Leocadia, after having breakfast, helped raise his
father and when he had to sit in the chair, called Pepe, who getting dressed to go see Peace.

-
Pepe, Pepe! - Shouted from the bedroom of Don José - see, that I
can not put a single dad the chair.

He attended in shirtsleeves, kissed her father, who supported waiting on the edge of the bed
and rising vigorously, he sat in the chair, between him and then pushed him Leocadia to the dining
room and served chocolate donuts, which every Sunday very early Pateta wearing their protective
home.

When Pepe was a complete dress, asked his sister:

- What about Mom?

-
In mass.

- In Mass? - Pepe repeated, surprised, but without showing
anger.

- Yes, as it is here Tirso, understand? will not dislike.

-
That it should be.

Did not add a word, but did not go unnoticed by the news.

The mother had gone to church.

Would really only in deference to his son, or would have been a part of this incitement? Both were
credible. "If things first - I thought Pepe - nothing about it in particular: if second, that
my brother is bad start and, little by little, and stop pretending that we go down the table
of the chest with his fists. Whatever, I'm not unprepared: we shall see. "

XV

Doña Manuela was unable to appraise the importance of having this
sudden interference of his eldest son in the life of the house, but
quailed at the idea that the two brothers serious disagreements arising
father upset readers.

As a remedy, only occurred to him to prevent any explanation between Tirso and Pepe. It was
forced to give consent to the wishes of one, go to Mass, devotional practices and submit to yield
to his will, as before had yielded and had bowed to the lack of religious spirit which always
showed the husband and younger son. Doblegóse therefore eager to avoid setbacks, and his first act submission
was to go to Mass on Sunday. At the back of the church, received her Tirso a smile and she
felt cariñosísima paid for his trouble, for such it seemed, on more than usual early in the morning,
dressing better than usual care leave from home and spend half an hour in the temple praying Hail
Marys and Our Fathers, which was almost forgotten. Harbored some suspicion that the hiciese Pepe
fun, but it said nothing that would make suspect dislike: instead Tirso, although kind gesture,
he asked:

- Why has not led you to Leocadia?

- And who was to do things in the house?

- Everything should be put
off to meet the Lord.

Doña Manuela had thought about it, but took into account that it was necessary to raise the
bed Don José, have lunch and arrange the rooms, also found that because Miller worked during the week
and took advantage of Sunday to see Leocadia, they might lose the visit the groom, if he could
come early. The worst was that the silence Dona Manuela his son the priest the latter consideration,
it was already too much docility test.

Pepe waited impatiently until Wednesday of that week, which was a public holiday, and while
dressed in his room was tuned to the noises he heard, eager to gather, by the sound of footsteps
and the opening and closing of doors, if he would go to church also his mother. Did not last
much uncertainty, his sister called him quickly to lift Don Jose,
and as it will asked the mother, said Leocadia had gone to church.

-
Even though I hide it - said Pepe - see here goes hand Tirso.

- Do
not know, but, take charge, while he was here, nobody seems to hear
Mass ugly.

- You will understand my fear list.

Know that these issues made between us every one what they want.

Dad and I do not believe in certain things, and we never practiced,
as they say the devotees, you have not done so because you would not,
but nobody forced you to be Jewish.

- Man, we're not Jewish!

- Well,
suppose you now take for there, in that I do not go.

The sad thing would be that the warnings advice, perhaps the threat of Tirso, achieved that
cayeseis overkill: as Dad and me, no one we do, for example, fasting, eating on Friday, nor do
foolish things on.

- I do not think you get into that.

- It should prevent all.

If this has been something of Tirso and started to make her go to mass, then want to confess, to ensure
the Blessed and go to the Forty Hours, with all of which see how's the house and neglected to
meet dad.

- You're believing that the Inquisition has come through the door.

-
Miracle is not intended to make us all blessed.

At that moment the bell rang and ran to open Leocadia.

It was Dona Manuela, to be Pepe felt against immutable.

- What color was the chasuble? - Jokingly asked him .-- And why do you stay so, mother? Not that
I were a policeman!

- How have these ideas!

- Do not think me angry, and I have no right, nor is there why. But feel, if walking hand it
Tirso, finish by sorberte the brain and turn you into one of those devout that eat the saints.

-
Both, no, but a bit of religion, it hurts.

- How does occasionally
a purge?

- What you hear your brother, and dispute the song.

- You're
right: better not hear me, because we would end up quarreling.

-
Look, son, do not have a dislike for you.

- For me, no, Mom, you
can be sure.

Provided he does not make things worse and pretend that give us showers
of Lourdes.

- I warn you I do not say anything!

I went to church because, while here it seemed to me ugly ...

This
apology is not required, even entreaty, went to Pepe, a ray of light:
and there was no doubt that the trips to church were the work of another.

Propúsose since then a lot of patience, observe, exaggerating prudence,
and prepare to counter the influence of strongly his brother when
necessary.

What would determine this need? It was not easy to guess.

Tirso If managements were reduced to imposing masses and rosaries,
it would not be the case penalty involved in this, I mean would be
slowly sucked the mother's devotion then thinking to change the life
of the house, that would lead to wrong ideas of her husband, requirements
arise, intolerance, anger at the lack of piety and fanaticism as brings
religious.

Pepe knew that religion is, in respect of the unbeliever, so the seduction over women: the
first for the first condescension, is the guarantee of due inevitable.

How far the victory, nobody knows, that as virtue, given by passion, he loses his will, so the
soul, subdued by faith, denies its own criterion.

And like Dona Manuela was low, and Pepe, despite the professed affection, do not know if the fanaticism
that ruled his spirit, that home, always calm trocaría is suddenly on a branch of hell. "It is natural
- he thought trying to dive in the intention of his brother - with Dad and me dares not: if
it sets campaign to moralize first seek to conquer them. That makes them say whatever you want,
for me, until suck the beads, but put together here fighting to defend the priests trabucaires,
wasting money on novenas and Dad for neglecting to dress the baby Jesus, what is that ... No way!
"

A few weeks elapsed without the situation varies considerably, but not Pepe will go unnoticed
every detail of what happened. The most salient developments mother were put Friday aside for a pot
Tirso, not wanting to eat meat placed at the head of the bed a wooden cross, stopping on Sunday
Mass a little longer than the first day, and buy a prayer book printed in bold, person themselves
for years have tired eyes. In addition, Leocadia also began to go to church and both were to
repeat the prayer said before meals Tirso Where .--«¿ devils have learned this prayer? "- Pepe asked.

Lasted
little doubt. One morning, looking for scissors in the sewing room of her sister, found in it,
between the wires and tapes, a book, whose cover was written this title: Prayers new to all acts of
life, which are all shields against evil temptations.


Ahead of the train rode two men at a walk, the scout Jackson, and the man they sought. They
spied him as the man on the black Spanish horse, found him a pale and tired young man, who
apparently had slept as ill as they themselves. But in straight and manful fashion they told
him their errand.

The pale face of Will Banion flushed, even with the livid scorch marks got in the prairie fire
the day before. He considered.

"Gentlemen," he said after a time, "you don't know what you are asking of me. It would be painful
for me to take that work on now."

"It's painful for us to see our property lost and our families set afoot," rejoined Caleb Price.
"It's not pleasant for me to do this. But it's no question, Major Banion, what you or I find
painful or pleasant. The question is on the women and children. You know; that very well."

"I do know it--yes. But you have other men. Where's Woodhull?"

"We don't know. We think the Pawnees got him among the others."

"Jackson"--Banion turned to his companion--"we've got to make a look-around for him. He's probably
across the river somewhere."

"Like enough," rejoined the scout. "But the first thing is for all us folks to git acrost the
river too. Let him go to hell."

"We want you, Major," said Hall quietly, and even Kelsey nodded.

"What shall I do, Jackson?" demanded Banion.

"Fly inter hit, Will," replied that worthy. "Leastways, take hit on long enough so's to git
them acrost an' help git their cattle together. Ye couldn't git Wingate to work under ye no
ways. But mebbe-so we can show 'em fer a day er so how Old Missoury gits acrost a country. Uh-huh?"

Again Banion considered, pondering many things of which none of these knew anything at all.
At length he drew aside with the men of the main train.

"Park our wagons here, Bill," he said. "See that they are well parked, too. Get out your guards.
I'll go up and see what we can do. We'll all cross here. Have your men get all the trail ropes
out and lay in a lot of dry cottonwood logs. We'll have to raft some of the stuff over. See
if there's any wild grapevines along the bottoms. They'll help hold the logs. So long."

He turned, and with the instinct of authority rode just a half length ahead of the others on
the return.

Jesse Wingate, a sullen and discredited Achilles, held to his tent, and Molly did as much,
her stout-hearted and just-minded mother being the main source of Wingate news. Banion kept
as far away from them as possible, but had Jed sent for.

"Jed," said he, "first thing, you get your boys together and go after the cattle. Most of them
went downstream with the wind. The hobbled stuff didn't come back down the trail and must be
below there too. The cows wouldn't swim the big river on a run. If there's rough country, with
any shelter, they'd like enough begin to mill--it might be five miles, ten--I can't guess.
You go find out.

"Now, you others, first thing, get your families all out in the sun. Spread out the bedclothes
and get them dried. Build fires and cook your best right away--have the people eat. Get that
bugle going and play something fast--Sweet Hour of Prayer is for evening, not now. Give 'em
Reveille, and then the cavalry charge. Play Susannah.

"I'm going to ride the edge of the burning to look for loose stock. You others get a meal into
these people--coffee, quinine, more coffee. Then hook up all the teams you can and move down
to the ford. We'll be on the Platte and among the buffalo in a week or ten days. Nothing can
stop us. All you need is just a little more coffee and a little more system, and then a good
deal more of both.

"Now's a fine time for this train to shake into place," he added. "You, Price, take your men
and go down the lines. Tell your kinfolk and families and friends and neighbors to make bands
and hang together. Let 'em draw cuts for place if they like, but stick where they go. We can't
tell how the grass will be on ahead, and we may have to break the train into sections on the
Platte; but we'll break it ourselves, and not see it fall apart or fight apart. So?"

He wheeled and went away at a trot. All he had given them was the one thing they lacked.

The Wingate wagons came in groups and halted at the river bank, where the work of rafting and
wagon boating went methodically forward. Scores of individual craft, tipsy and risky, two or
three logs lashed together, angled across and landed far below. Horsemen swam across with lines
and larger rafts were steadied fore and aft with ropes snubbed around tree trunks on either
bank. Once started, the resourceful pioneer found a dozen ways to skin his cat, as one man
phrased it, and presently the falling waters permitted swimming and fording the stock. It all
seemed ridiculously simple and ridiculously cheerful.

Toward evening a great jangling of bells and shouting of young captains announced the coming
of a great band of the stampeded livestock--cattle, mules and horses mixed. Afar came the voice
of Jed Wingate singing, "Oh, then Susannah," and urging Susannah to have no concern.

But Banion, aloof and morose, made his bed that night apart even from his own train. He had
not seen Wingate--did not see him till the next day, noon, when he rode up and saluted the
former leader, who sat on his own wagon seat and not in saddle.

"My people are all across, Mr. Wingate," he said, and the last of your wagons will be over
by dark and straightened out. I'm parked a mile ahead."

"You are parked? I thought you were elected--by my late friends--to lead this whole train."

He spoke bitterly and with a certain contempt that made Banion color.

"No. We can travel apart, though close. Do you want to go ahead, or shall I?"

"As you like. The country's free."

"It's not free for some things, Mr. Wingate," rejoined the younger man hotly. "You can lead
or not, as you like; but I'll not train up with a man who thinks of me as you do. After this
think what you like, but don't speak any more."

"What do you mean by that?"

"You know very well. You've believed another man's word about my personal character. It's gone
far enough and too far."

"The other man is not here. He can't face you."

"No, not now. But if he's on earth he'll face me sometime."

Unable to control himself further, Banion wheeled and galloped away to his own train.

"You ask if we're to join in with the Yankees," he flared out to Jackson. "No! We'll camp apart
and train apart. I won't go on with them."

"Well," said the scout, "I didn't never think we would, er believe ye could; not till they
git in trouble agin--er till a certain light wagon an' mules throws in with us, huh?"

"You'll say no more of that, Jackson! But one thing: you and I have got to ride and see if
we can get any trace of Woodhull."

"Like looking for a needle in a haystack, an' a damn bad needle at that," was the old man's
comment.

CHAPTER XVI

THE PLAINS

"On to the Platte! The buffalo!" New cheer seemed to come to the hearts of the emigrants now,
and they forgot bickering. The main train ground grimly ahead, getting back, if not all its
egotism, at least more and more of its self-reliance. By courtesy, Wingate still rode ahead,
though orders came now from a joint council of his leaders, since Banion would not take charge.

The great road to Oregon was even now not a trail but a road, deep cut into the soil, though
no wheeled traffic had marked it until within the past five years. A score of paralled paths
it might be at times, of tentative location along a hillside or a marshy level; but it was
for the most part a deep-cut, unmistakable road from which it had been impossible to wander.
At times it lay worn into the sod a half foot, a foot in depth. Sometimes it followed the ancient
buffalo trails to water--the first roads of the Far West, quickly seized on by hunters and
engineers--or again it transected these, hanging to the ridges after frontier road fashion,
heading out for the proved fords of the greater streams. Always the wheel marks of those who
had gone ahead in previous years, the continuing thread of the trail itself, worn in by trader
and trapper and Mormon and Oregon or California man, gave hope and cheer to these who followed
with the plow.

Stretching out, closing up, almost inch by inch, like some giant measuring worm in its slow
progress, the train held on through a vast and stately landscape, which some travelers had
called the Eden of America, such effect was given by the series of altering scenes. Small imagination,
indeed, was needed to picture here a long-established civilization, although there was not
a habitation. They were beyond organized society and beyond the law.

Game became more abundant, wild turkeys still appeared in the timbered creek bottoms. Many
elk were seen, more deer and very many antelope, packed in northward by the fires. A number
of panthers and giant gray wolves beyond counting kept the hunters always excited. The wild
abundance of an unexhausted Nature offered at every hand. The sufficiency of life brought daily
growth in the self-reliance which had left them for a time.

The wide timberlands, the broken low hills of the green prairie at length began to give place
to a steadily rising inclined plane. The soil became less black and heavy, with more sandy
ridges. The oak and hickory, stout trees of their forefathers, passed, and the cottonwoods
appeared. After they had crossed the ford of the Big Blue--a hundred yards of racing water--they
passed what is now the line between Kansas and Nebraska, and followed up the Little Blue, beyond
whose ford the trail left these quieter river valleys and headed out over a high table-land
in a keen straight flight over the great valley of the Platte, the highway to the Rockies.

Now the soil was sandier; the grass changed yet again. They had rolled under wheel by now more
than one hundred different varieties of wild grasses. The vegetation began to show the growing
altitude. The cactus was seen now and then. On the far horizon the wavering mysteries of the
mirage appeared, marvelous in deceptiveness, mystical, alluring, the very spirits of the Far
West, appearing to move before their eyes in giant pantomime. They were passing from the Prairies
to the Plains.

Shouts and cheers arose as the word passed back that the sand hills known as the Coasts of
the Platte were in sight. Some mothers told their children they were now almost to Oregon.
The whips cracked more loudly, the tired teams, tongues lolling, quickened their pace as they
struck the down-grade gap leading through the sand ridges.

Two thousand Americans, some of them illiterate and ignorant, all of them strong, taking with
them law, order, society, the church, the school, anew were staging the great drama of human
life, act and scene and episode, as though upon some great moving platform drawn by invisible
cables beyond the vast proscenium of the hills.

CHAPTER XVII

THE GREAT ENCAMPMENT

As the long columns of the great wagon train broke through the screening sand hills there was
disclosed a vast and splendid panorama. The valley of the Platte lay miles wide, green in the
full covering of spring. A crooked and broken thread of timber growth appeared, marking the
moister soil and outlining the general course of the shallow stream, whose giant cottonwoods
were dwarfed now by the distances. In between, and for miles up and down the flat expanse,
there rose the blue smokes of countless camp fires, each showing the location of some white-topped
ship of the Plains. Black specks, grouped here and there, proved the presence of the livestock
under herd.

Over all shone a pleasant sun. Now and again the dark shadow of a moving cloud passed over
the flat valley, softening its high lights for the time. At times, as the sun shone full and
strong, the faint loom of the mirage added the last touch of mysticism, the figures of the
wagons rising high, multiplied many-fold, with giant creatures passing between, so that the
whole seemed, indeed, some wild phantasmagoria of the desert.

"Look!" exclaimed Wingate, pulling up his horse. "Look, Caleb, the Northern train is in and
waiting for us! A hundred wagons! They're camped over the whole bend."

The sight of this vast re-enforcement brought heart to every man, woman and child in all the
advancing train. Now, indeed, Oregon was sure. There would be, all told, four hundred--five
hundred--above six hundred wagons. Nothing could withstand them. They were the same as arrived!

As the great trains blended before the final emparkment men and women who had never met before
shook hands, talked excitedly, embraced, even wept, such was their joy in meeting their own
kind. Soon the vast valley at the foot of the Grand Island of the Platte--ninety miles in length
it then was--became one vast bivouac whose parallel had not been seen in all the world.

Even so, the Missouri column held back, an hour or two later on the trail. Banion, silent and
morose, still rode ahead, but all the flavor of his adventure out to Oregon had left him--indeed,
the very savor of life itself. He looked at his arms, empty; touched his lips, where once her
kiss had been, so infinitely and ineradicably sweet. Why should he go on to Oregon now?

As they came down through the gap in the Coasts, looking out over the Grand Island and the
great encampment, Jackson pulled up his horse.

"Look! Someone comin' out!"

Banion sat his horse awaiting the arrival of the rider, who soon cut down the intervening distance
until he could well be noted. A tall, spare man he was, middle-aged, of long lank hair and
gray stubbled beard, and eyes overhung by bushy brows. He rode an Indian pad saddle, without
stirrups, and was clad in the old costume of the hunter of the Far West--fringed shirt and
leggings of buckskin. Moccasins made his foot-covering, though he wore a low, wide hat. As
he came on at speed, guiding his wiry mount with a braided rope looped around the lower jaw,
he easily might have been mistaken for a savage himself had he not come alone and from such
company as that ahead. He jerked up his horse close at hand and sat looking at the newcomers,
with no salutation beyond a short "How!"

Banion met him.

"We're the Westport train. Do you come from the Bluffs? Are you for Oregon?"

"Yes. I seen ye comin'. Thought I'd projeck some. Who's that back of ye?" He extended an imperative
skinny finger toward Jackson. "If it hain't Bill Jackson hit's his ghost!"

"The same to you, Jim. How!"

The two shook hands without dismounting. Jackson turned grinning to Banion.

"Major," said he, "this is Jim Bridger, the oldest scout in the Rockies, an' that knows more
West than ary man this side the Missoury. I never thought to see him agin, sartain not this
far east."

"Ner me," retorted the other, shaking hands with one man after another.

"Jim Bridger? That's a name we know," said Banion. "I've heard of you back in Kentucky."

"Whar I come from, gentlemen--whar I come from more'n forty year ago, near's I can figger.
Leastways I was borned in Virginny an' must of crossed Kentucky sometime. I kain't tell right
how old I am, but I rek'lect perfect when they turned the water inter the Missoury River."
He looked at them solemnly.

"I come back East to the new place, Kansas City. It didn't cut no mustard, an' I drifted to
the Bluffs. This train was pullin' west, an' I hired on for guide. I've got a few wagons o'
my own--iron, flour an' bacon for my post beyant the Rockies--ef we don't all git our ha'r
lifted afore then!

"We're in between the Sioux and the Pawnees now," he went on. "They're huntin' the bufflers
not ten mile ahead. But when I tell these pilgrims, they laugh at me. The hull Sioux nation
is on the spring hunt right now. I'll not have it said Jim Bridger led a wagon train into a
massacree. If ye'll let me, I'm for leavin' 'em an' trainin' with you-all, especial since you
got anyhow one good man along. I've knowed Bill Jackson many a year at the Rendyvous afore
the fur trade petered. Damn the pilgrims! The hull world's broke loose this spring. There's
five thousand Mormons on ahead, praisin' God every jump an' eatin' the grass below the roots.
Womern an' children--so many of 'em, so many! I kain't talk about hit! Women don't belong out
here! An' now here you come bringin' a thousand more!

"There's a woman an' a baby layin' dead in oar camp now," he concluded. "Died last night. The
pilgrims is tryin' to make coffins fer 'em out'n cottonwood logs."

"Lucky for all!" Jackson interrupted the garrulity of the other. "We buried men in blankets
on the Vermilion a few days back. The Pawnees got a small camp o' our own folks."

"Yes, I know all about that."

"What's that?" cut in Banion. "How do you know?"

"Well, we've got the survivors--three o' them, countin' Woodhull, their captain."

"How did they get here?"

"They came in with a small outfit o' Mormons that was north o' the Vermilion. They'd come out
on the St. Jo road. They told me--"

"Is Woodhull here--can you find him?"

"Shore! Ye want to see him?"

"Yes."

"He told me all about hit--"

"We know all about it, perhaps better than you do--after he's told you all about it."

Bridger looked at him, curious.

"Well, anyhow, hit's over," said he. "One of the men had a Pawnee arrer in his laig. Reckon
hit hurt. I know, fer I carried a Blackfoot arrerhead under my shoulder blade fer sever'l years.

"But come on down and help me make these pilgrims set guards. Do-ee mind, now, the hull Sioux
nation's just in ahead o' us, other side the river! Yet these people didn't want to ford to
the south side the Platte; they wanted to stick north o' the river. Ef we had, we'd have our
ha'r dryin' by now. I tell ye, the tribes is out to stop the wagon trains this spring. They
say too many womern and children is comin', an' that shows we want to take their land away
fer keeps. 

       * * * * *

The arrangement of the library came to an end: a few mornings, and all would be order. Could be
completed before, but clogged two causes: first, that Don Luis, falling into the account that
I could write to the district by another hand, neither more nor less than a minister, Pepe
employed as an amanuensis, and the second is that it talks with Peace and development gained
more time each day. Heard him, she forgot it was just more than a servant, he lost by speaking
the notion of distance between them separated.

Some of these dialogues took strange turn.

- Today I will take off for you time.

I'm boring!

... I go shopping, choose a gift for a friend who is married, and
do not know what to buy.

He has eighteen years: it was my colleague college.

- That is exactly my sister's age.

- Do not you know he had siblings.

-
Also, I have another older brother, who is a priest.

Fixed but I shall not trouble me at Leocadia buy a wedding gift.

- Why?

- The girls of my sister's condition are not easily tell who the threats.

- For what condition you is your sister?

- The life of my father put us in a very modest young lady, but higher
that of the poor people who need to earn a wage.

We belong to those last layers middle-class play about poverty, and
women of this kind are very difficult to marry.

- No reason as I
can.

- It is very simple.

They can not marry a worker, because it hinders the difference of life and tastes, and rarely
come to love a rich man. As for the men of position similar to yours ... these are denied marriage.

-
What ideas so rare!

- No, it's cold to look at things.

What home can create, or what life offers his girlfriend a man who
wins, for example, what I? Undeceive you, lady, marriage is not available
to all fortunes.

- When you say you think weird things!

"So a poor girl can not love a rich man, and vice versa?

- The first
thing is not that difficult, but the vice versa is almost impossible.

-
Explain you

- The charms of the woman does not need the help of money.

The moral qualities and beauty can do anything. Man's mission is more difficult: first, you need
to know please, then must have the means to support a family.

- What if the media leads women? Or do you not think you should marry the poor with rich woman?
For what we are seeing at every turn.

- There is something about that. Love and gold do great things together, but that rarely come
together! Furthermore, you believe me, miss, always suspect the poor man who falls for a rich.
The wealthy are beauties to us as bright for dressmakers, which when
one imagines look honestly earned.

- In other words, speaking clearly,
and without sweeten things, we can fortune be an obstacle to happiness.

-
Have you right my way of thinking.

Never ask a man to love that can enrich him. How does she believe in his sincerity? How to
acquire the certainty that she is, herself, the object of worship?

In a deity who grants anything, is given to believe in the sincerity of those who pray, but a god
of gold to pay the prayers, how would some of the love you offer?

- What subtleties and how to figure things out! Then, as you, the rich woman can not find but
rich husband. Well it is not.

Every day marry rich to poor.

- No: it happens that more or less wealthy ladies join crooks well dressed, elegant, trained and
well educated, but you will not never seen a rich girl to marry a worthy man is truly poor.

- According ... With a poor, poor, come on, you do not have a penny
to his, no.

- It's natural.

Gold inspires distrust women of good faith of man. Who can to discover the truth in the heart of
another? So you should never expose anyone to blame you of ambitious when only meant to be loved.

-
Sad truths, if they are, for the rich.

Perhaps nothing extraordinary had Pepe phrases, but she had never heard talk like that.

Another day he bought peace for his cabinet an antique mirror frame size, a real work art. Vine
leaves, stems of ivy, flowers, acanthus leaves, ribbons and scrolls enclosing the moon Bevel width:
it was necessary to restore it, and when finished the work him over, ordered to leave in the office
for his father saw him and saw it there to download the waiters Pepe.

She, with that childish glee of someone who holds a new acquisition, he said:

- Look at you my purchase. Throughout Madrid has no equal. And cheap.

Five thousand.

Pepe, in considering the mirror, made an involuntary gesture.

- What! Is it ugly?

Louis XV, pure baroque ... Or does it seem to you dear?

- No, it's
beautiful.

- So ... Come on, man, you talk!

Is it less than it cost me?

- Miss, and with what degree I can I
afford to discuss their actions or refine their tastes?

- It is not
that.

Do you think too much money?

When I have confidence You, should you have it with me.

- The setting is beautiful and worth every penny.

- It is you honest.

-
Why, Miss?

- I know you in the face, whether you are honest, man,
you are free.

We have found to you a waste, right?

- And with what right could I think so?

- Well, because I want you to tell me, I give you carte blanche to talk, what a You want to talk

He
was a darling whim, curious to know why because what she thought
produced natural bad impression on others.

- What I have said my
thought - Pepe replied shyly - is that money does not equal value
for all.

- What do you have such a delicate way of saying things!,
But five thousand reais are not for anyone more than two hundred fifty
dollars.

- They represent a poor family for two hundred and fifty
days of life.

- In that you have reason.

Should not buy certain things while there are people dying of hungry ... but it is the world. Yes,
I see: crazy as this represents the welfare of many.

- And sometimes,
the lives of some.

- So, - continued peace - that you are of those
who say that everything should be shared among everyone.

- No, miss.
There are evils that have no remedy.

It would also be shared understanding and virtue, and that is impossible.

I have not done but think that if fortune sometimes choose While those who favor, others in
virtue of being blind, bordering on cruel.

- Excuse me, you know I've made a blunder.

But not all my fault.

- Why, Miss?

- I should not have to teach you that thing.

At other times I've heard, their situation, you, that is without
offense, because it is not slander, it is not flattering.

I was wrong, I been indiscreet, right?

- Miss, not with me you no mercy! my words are not enclosed the less
blame.

- No, if half of the blame is on you

- I do not understand.

-
The thing is clear.

You have done for his wit and his conversation that I treat as a
friend, and I've taken the liberty to teach you what not to.

- Would
you say you taught jewelry to a beggar?

- No, Pepe, that hurts me.

Peace be hurt by this answer, and diverting eyes from him, was silent, but his attitude and the
expression on his face showed no anger, but bitterness.

It seemed that he had spoken so had authority to do so.

Pepe said in surprise:

- Excuse you, but the error is not mine. It took you as a cry of poverty mocked, perhaps an unconscious
envy what has been a very simple observation. How could You believe
that I dared to so much?

What am I to you, Miss? Only spoken Were you honored me pay for it with rudeness or lightness?

-
Say no more the case. What I want is to know that I have not offended you - and he extended a
friendly hand.

Both were stunned, and since then were more reserved one for another. Peace remonstrated mentally,
thinking that Pepe injuring the shame of poverty had made very ugly
action.

Pepe did not succeed to define what he felt.

Their lives began to come together as in the bed of the river tend
to gather, drawn by current grain of sand and the gold particle.

VI

When Pepe finished the job for which he was called, he stopped
going to Don Luis: something like fear him away from there.

The last morning was, taking advantage of a time left they could not watch him. They asked their
parents if they had paid, and said: - "I was not Don Luis, and see him in the Senate. "The
truth was that, like M. de Agreda who any expenditure was met Peace, Pepe was loath to the idea
that it was she who put in the handful of hard labor provided by his father. For the first time
I felt spring up in the background pride of the soul: a bad drive was a precursor of more noble
sentiment, so sometimes in the spirit of man, as in the life of nature, precedes the shadow to
the splendor the day.

One week elapsed without Pepe return home, Paz was accused of this,
and worried with that disappearance, and thought about the poor lad
if he were a friend offended: it also agreed that he had not paid,
but could not think of sending the discrete mode money.

Why a servant? He could not explain the cause, but for anything in the world had valid for
such a medium. Write her? To imagine, was not afraid to hurt that crossed his imagination,
but rather as a vague fear, shame mortified by itself.

At the end did nothing, not even dared to speak to his father, but never stopped thinking about
it and there was day, crossing the room of books, experienced disgust
and sadness.

Gradually the light grew in his soul. His ears, made to flattery, no never heard phrases the
mob, nothing made her feel those men who might want it as a jewel placed at their fingertips,
and now she put spontaneous and stubborn determination to remember simple sayings, the most
insignificant compliments of a pauper, who was terrified a cost of five thousand. What sometimes
seemed romantic to the ridiculous, others times felt like to mourn.

       * * * * *

One morning in the spring of 1872 - eight or nine months before that dinner where parents Pepe
spoke about the upcoming arrival of Tirso - were in San Pascual, de Recoletos, playing Mass
of eleven. The sun lit up the grass of the little gardens, polished by moisture and obscured
in spots by the shadows of the acacias, whose aroma perfuming the air. About the deep blue sky
stood out dark green tops of some pine trees, the branches, including purple and crimson, love the
trees, pretending Japanese background details, and Boxes waterlogged stood the pungent smell
of wet earth. Children played on the floor glazing with yellow sand-colored outfits, and fell
crying undercuts the trees, while the nurses were laughing in chorus some shameless lackey. In
the banks, each with a newspaper in his hand, had some old gentlemen, types retired military,
the elderly infirm that shaking the numbness of winter went in search of warm sunshine. In Aguaducho,
full of glasses, the towering beacon of sugar cubes and the jar with spigot, after which thick
belly hid the jar sour cherries and plate rolls, while the water carrier, giving a talk saved,
washed in the basin brass spoons. At the center of the circular walk quickly some spirited horse
drawn carriages along the line of chairs iron unemployed were a few cabs to hack down the neck
and the driver lying on spelling out the box Cowbell. On the other hand, the trams ran on rails,
blocked by cars and trucks, their drivers cursing aside of the road when he heard the whistle
foremen, and the long stone pavement, silent, step by step from top to bottom, authoritatively the couple
was bored guard public order, then called yellow take comfort that no other subversive looks
good-looking maids. In the neighboring streets they arrived just combed and flirty ladies
willing to make the groom out to meet the girls eager to play and loaded moms devotional subjects
Autumn gum. A fast walking the way from impatience, other tired with the fat of the years, looking,
according to your taste, exquisite elegance, workshop arrangements homemade oddities fad,
fashion hype, some simply calculated and all hard to please. At the door of the temple we stopped
from time to time a sedan emblazoned, and slowly got out of it a lady, the more powerful less
adorned, showing sleepiness eyes leaving the overnight, and the withered face burning tracks the
atmosphere of the holidays. A quick and short little steps, bending the body into the earth,
head down and fearful awareness of late, came attached to the facades of the the little old house shoes
and black shawl goat, and they were going ahead devout girls, as ignoring the power of youth,
calling incessantly to heaven those that can give the world. The bell was calling them with
his monotonous ring, and all came as a flock to the fold: ugly, beautiful, rich, miserable, virtuous,
lost, holy, sinful, mothers, courtesans, the household vestal or priestess of love, all, elbowing,
together, they disappeared swallowed up by the door of the church, raising to enter a portiere
heavier than a slab and quickly hinting charged atmosphere, dirty, smoky and dotted with the
yellow glow of candlelight.

Throughout the morning he was renewing that audience, mostly women, and the door women swallowing
was then thrown into the street past twenty or thirty minutes after which I saw them opening
out or unfolding umbrellas fans, because sunlight the offended, and his retina accustomed to
the darkness of the holy cave.

Some men also fell, but the greatest number of them remained in the little gardens forming
a circle, discussing the day's news had just read in the newspapers that sellers hawked around
him with the last parts of the North.

Towards the street could be heard Alcalá jingle of the buses that went to the section of the
bulls, and walking slowly along the seafront, sun-drenched, came the donkey with baskets full of pots,
listening to screaming from time to time to fine fellow who led them: the tieestóo of claaveles
doobles ... Those who came the outcry could hear fragments of conversations and noticing, perhaps,
some of which up there with him to his wife or daughter defended the ideas of the century with
words impregnated of modern wickedness.

- Items are on the rise.

- They say that the King goes to the Northern army.

- If this does
not hold, we go right to Don Carlos.

- Well, you believe that religious
fanaticism debases us to cultured Europe.

- I fear I have is who
the Republicans.

Let us go to a ninety-three awful.

- All evil passions have made their way.

- Up to form a league they have to lose!

- Every day a meeting! I even peaceful demonstrations by top of the setae.

- Calle you, man, by God!

That is not compatible with the government.

In times of Don Ramon and Don Leopoldo had mitins!

It will come.

- Well, I think that the King wins sympathy.

- What has to win, man? If a foreigner!

- You are mistaken, Sir, that means nothing. History shows that Carlos
I and Philip V were also foreigners.

A group of ladies out high-pitched and shrill voices, trying to rags, fashion, gossip and servants.

-
Girl, no one knows what to wear: this is from last year.

- Well, I feel very good.

Look, look, there goes the impeller. The other night was that they were Castellana in the white
blanket and comb to tease the Kings.

- What a mess!

Queen To me I feel sorry.

- Daughter, what do you want? As the impeller was hostess Isabella!

Well I've heard that alfonsinos move much: - And this he said looking
sideways at a gentleman who sat in an iron chair, still with an eye
to the group of ladies.

Two chicks separated from their mothers held, with dengue fever and
grimaces, a lively dialogue.

- Do not you enter?

- No: Enrique's
father says the mass very slowly.

I also want to give time to get that. Mom left and enter the house.

Is the poor boy who drinks winds.

- What's yours?

- This just in
June.

- Daughter, as you said a year ago. The race has that! ...

-
Well, I like. He is more loving!

- Girl, with those suits seem striped
zebras.

- Bye, Mom to be those of Zangolotino!

- Abur, remononísima.

The
premature, fuming at the mouth and wearing American last summer, parody
Don Juan Tenorio.

- I tell you this lady is not such a lady, and
I have said he appears.

- Come on, boy, you shut up! Hit's the holdin'est thing ther is, ma'am--hit
never does let go."

"How long'll we wait here?" the older woman demanded.

"Anyhow fer two-three days, ma'am. Thar's a lot has got to sort put stuff an' throw hit away
here. One man has drug a pair o' millstones all the way to here from Ohio. He allowed to get
rich startin' a gris'mill out in Oregon. An' then ther's chairs an' tables, an' God knows what--"

"Well, anyhow," broke in Mrs. Wingate truculently, "no difference what you men say, I ain't
going to leave my bureau, nor my table, nor my chairs! I'm going to keep my two churns and
my feather bed too. We've had butter all the way so far, and I mean to have it all the way--and
eggs. I mean to sleep at nights, too, if the pesky muskeeters'll let me. They most have et
me up. And I'd give a dollar for a drink of real water now. It's all right to settle this water
overnight, but that don't take the sody out of it.

"Besides," she went on, "I got four quarts o' seed wheat in one of them bureau drawers, and
six cuttings of my best rose-bush I'm taking out to plant in Oregon. And I got three pairs
of Jed's socks in another bureau drawer. It's flat on its back, bottom of the load. I ain't
going to dig it out for no man."

"Well, hang on to them socks, ma'am. I've wintered many a time without none--only grass in
my moccasins. There's outfits in this train that's low on flour an' side meat right now, let
alone socks. We got to cure some meat. There's a million buffler just south in the breaks wantin'
to move on north, but scared of us an' the Injuns. We'd orto make a good hunt inside o' ten
mile to-morrer. We'll git enough meat to take us a week to jerk hit all, or else Jim Bridger's
a liar--which no one never has said yit, ma'am."

"Flowers?" he added. "You takin' flowers acrost? Flowers--do they go with the plow, too, as
well as weeds? Well, well! Wimminfolks shore air a strange race o' people, hain't that the
truth? Buryin' the buffler an' plantin' flowers on his grave!

"But speakin' o' buryin' things," he suddenly resumed, "an' speakin' o' plows, 'minds me o'
what's delayin' us all right now. Hit's a fool thing, too--buryin' Injuns!"

"As which, Mr. Bridger? What you mean?" inquired Molly Wingate, looking over her spectacles.

"This new man, Banion, that come in with the Missouri wagons--he taken hit on hisself to say,
atter the fight was over, we orto stop an' bury all them Injuns! Well, I been on the Plains
an' in the Rockies all my life, an' I never yit, before now, seed a Injun buried. Hit's onnatcherl.
But this here man he, now, orders a ditch plowed an' them Injuns hauled in an' planted. Hit's
wastin' time. That's what's keepin' him an' yore folks an' sever'l others. Yore husband an'
yore son is both out yan with him. Hit beats hell, ma'am, these new-fangled ways!"

"So that's where they are? I wanted them to fetch me something to make a fire."

"I kain't do that, ma'am. Mostly my squaws--"

"Your what? Do you mean to tell me you got squaws, you old heathen?"

"Not many, ma'am--only two. Times is hard sence beaver went down. I kain't tell ye how hard
this here depressin' has set on us folks out here."

"Two squaws! My laws! Two--what's their names?" This last with feminine curiosity.

"Well now, ma'am, I call one on 'em Blast Yore Hide--she's a Ute. The other is younger an'
pertier. She's a Shoshone. I call her Dang Yore Eyes. Both them women is powerful fond o' me,
ma'am. They both are right proud o' their names, too, because they air white names, ye see.
Now when time comes fer a fire, Blast Yore Hide an' Dang Yore Eyes, they fight hit out between
'em which gits the wood. I don't study none over that, ma'am."

Molly Wingate rose so ruffled that, like an angered hen, she seemed twice her size.

"You old heathen!" she exclaimed. "You old murderin' lazy heathen man! How dare you talk like
that to me?"

"As what, ma'am? I hain't said nothin' out'n the way, have I? O' course, ef ye don't want to
git the fire stuff, thar's yer darter--she's young an' strong. Yes, an' perty as a picter besides,
though like enough triflin', like her maw. Where's she at now?"

"None of your business where."

"I could find her."

"Oh, you could! How?"

"I'd find that young feller Sam Woodhull that come in from below, renegadin' away from his
train with that party o' Mormons--him that had his camp jumped by the Pawnees. I got a eye
fer a womern, ma'am, but so's he--more'n fer Injuns, I'd say. I seed him with yore darter right
constant, but I seemed to miss him in the ride. Whar was he at?"

"I don't know as it's none of your business, anyways."

"No? Well, I was just wonderin', ma'am, because I heerd Cap'n Banion ast that same question
o' yore husband, Cap'n Wingate, an' Cap'n Wingate done said jest what ye said yerself--that
hit wasn't none o' his business. Which makes things look shore hopeful an' pleasant in this
yere train o' pilgrims, this bright and pleasant summer day, huh?"

Grinning amicably, the incorrigible old mountaineer rose and went his way, and left the irate
goodwife to gather her apron full of plains fuel for herself.

CHAPTER XIX

BANION OF DONIPHAN'S

Molly Wingate was grumbing over her fire when at length her husband and son returned to their
wagon. Jed was vastly proud over a bullet crease he had got in a shoulder. After his mother's
alarm had taken the form of first aid he was all for showing his battle scars to a certain
damsel in Caleb Price's wagon. Wingate remained dour and silent as was now his wont, and cursing
his luck that he had had no horse to carry him up in the late pursuit of the Sioux. He also
was bitter over the delay in making a burial trench.

"Some ways, Jess," commented his spouse, "I'd a'most guess you ain't got much use for Will Banion."

"Why should I have? Hasn't he done all he could to shoulder me out of my place as captain of
this train? And wasn't I elected at Westport before we started?"

"Mostly, a man has to stay elected, Jess."

"Well, I'm going to! I had it out with that young man right now. I told him I knew why he wanted
in our train--it was Molly."

"What did he say?"

"What could he say? He admitted it. And he had the gall to say I'd see it his way some day.
Huh! That's a long day off, before I do. Well, at least he said he was going back to his own
men, and they'd fall behind again. That suits me."

"Did he say anything about finding Sam Woodhull?"

"Yes. He said that would take its time, too."

"Didn't say he wouldn't?"

"No, I don't know as he did."

"Didn't act scared of it?"

"He didn't say much about it."

"Sam does."

"I reckon--and why shouldn't he? He'll play evens some day, of course. But now, Molly," he
went on, with heat, "what's the use talking? We both know that Molly's made up her mind. She
loves Sam and don't love this other man any more than I do. He's only a drift-about back from
the war, and wandering out to Oregon. He'll maybe not have a cent when he gets there. He's
got one horse and his clothes, and one or two wagons, maybe not paid for. Sam's got five wagons
of goods to start a store with, and three thousand gold--so he says--as much as we have. The
families are equal, and that's always a good thing. This man Banion can't offer Molly nothing,
but Sam Woodhull can give her her place right from the start, out in Oregon. We got to think
of all them things.

"And I've got to think of a lot of other things, too. It's our girl. It's all right to say
a man can go out to Oregon and live down his past, but it's a lot better not to have no past
to live down. You know what Major Banion done, and how he left the Army--even if it wasn't
why, it was how, and that's bad enough. Sam Woodhull has told us both all about Banion's record.
If he'd steal in Mexico he'd steal in Oregon."

"You didn't ever get so far along as to talk about that!"

"We certainly did--right now, him and me, not half an hour ago, while we was riding back."

"I shouldn't have thought he'd of stood it," said his wife, "him sort of fiery-like."

"Well, it did gravel him. He got white, but wouldn't talk. Asked if Sam Woodhull had the proof,
and I told him he had. That was when he said he'd go back to his own wagons. I could see he
was avoiding Sam. But I don't see how, away out here, and no law nor nothing, we're ever going
to keep the two apart."

"They wasn't."

"No. They did have it out, like schoolboys behind a barn. Do you suppose that'll ever do for
a man of spirit like Sam Woodhull? No, there's other ways. And as I said, it's a far ways from
the law out here, and getting farther every day, and wilder and wilder every day. It's only
putting it off, Molly, but on the whole I was glad when Banion said he'd give up looking for
Sam Woodhull this morning and go on back to his own men."

"Did he say he'd give it up?"

"Yes, he did. He said if I'd wait I'd see different. Said he could wait--said he was good at
waiting."

"But he didn't say he'd give it up?"

"I don't know as he did in so many words."

"He won't," said Molly Wingate.

CHAPTER XX

THE BUFFALO

The emigrants had now arrived at the eastern edge of the great region of free and abundant
meat. They now might count on at least six or seven hundred miles of buffalo to subsist them
on their way to Oregon. The cry of "Buffalo! Buffalo!" went joyously down the lines of wagons,
and every man who could muster a horse and a gun made ready for that chase which above all
others meant most, whether in excitement or in profit.

Of these hundreds of hunters, few had any experience on the Plains. It was arranged by the
head men that the hunt should be strung out over several miles, the Missourians farthest down
the river, the others to the westward, so that all might expect a fairer chance in an enterprise
of so much general importance.

Banion and Jackson, in accordance with the former's promise to Wingate, had retired to their
own train shortly after the fight with the Sioux. The Wingate train leaders therefore looked
to Bridger as their safest counsel in the matter of getting meat. That worthy headed a band
of the best equipped men and played his own part in full character. A wild figure he made as
he rode, hatless, naked to the waist, his legs in Indian leggings and his feet in moccasins.
His mount, a compact cayuse from west of the Rockies, bore no saddle beyond a folded blanket
cinched on with a rawhide band.

For weapons Bridger carried no firearms at all, but bore a short buffalo bow of the Pawnees--double-curved,
sinew-backed, made of the resilient bois d'arc, beloved bow wood of all the Plains tribes.
A thick sheaf of arrows, newly sharpened, swung in the beaver quiver at his back. Lean, swart,
lank of hair, he had small look of the white man left about him as he rode now, guiding his
horse with a jaw rope of twisted hair and playing his bow with a half dozen arrows held along
it with the fingers of his left hand.

"For buffler the bow's the best," said he. "I'll show ye before long."

They had not too far to go. At that time the short-grass country of the Platte Valley was the
great center of the bison herds. The wallows lay in thousands, the white alkali showing in
circles which almost touched edge to edge. The influx of emigrants had for the time driven
the herds back from their ancient fords and watering places, to which their deep-cut trails
led down, worn ineradicably into the soil. It was along one of the great buffalo trails that
they now rode, breasting the line of hills that edged the Platte to the south.

When they topped the flanking ridge a marvelous example of wild abundance greeted them. Bands
of elk, yet more numerous bands of antelope, countless curious gray wolves, more than one grizzly
bear made away before them, although by orders left unpursued. Of the feathered game they had
now forgot all thought. The buffalo alone was of interest. The wild guide rode silent, save
for a low Indian chant he hummed, his voice at times rising high, as though importunate.

"Ye got to pray to the Great Speret when-all ye hunt, men," he explained. "An' ye got to have
someone that can call the buffler, as the Injuns calls that when they hunt on foot. I kin call
'em, too, good as ary Injun. Why shouldn't I?

"Thar now!" he exclaimed within the next quarter of an hour. "What did Jim Bridger tell ye?
Lookee yonder! Do-ee say Jim Bridger can't make buffler medicine? Do-ee see 'em over yan ridge--thousands?"

The others felt their nerves jump as they topped the ridge and saw fully the vast concourse
of giant black-topped, beard-fronted creatures which covered the plateau in a body a mile and
more across--a sight which never failed to thrill any who saw it.

It was a rolling carpet of brown, like the prairie's endless wave of green. Dust clouds of
combat rose here and there. A low muttering rumble of hoarse dull bellowing came audible even
at that distance. The spectacle was to the novice not only thrilling--it was terrifying.

The general movement of the great pack was toward the valley; closest to them a smaller body
of some hundreds that stood, stupidly staring, not yet getting the wind of their assailants.

Suddenly rose the high-pitched yell of the scout, sounding the charge. Snorting, swerving,
the horses of the others followed his, terror smitten but driven in by men most of whom at
least knew how to ride.

Smoothly as a bird in flight, Bridger's trained buffalo horse closed the gap between him and
a plunging bunch of the buffalo. The white savage proved himself peer of any savage of the
world. His teeth bared as he threw his body into the bow with a short, savage jab of the left
arm as he loosed the sinew cord. One after another feather showed, clinging to a heaving flank;
one after another muzzle dripped red with the white foam of running; then one after another
great animal began to slow; to stand braced, legs apart; soon to begin slowly kneeling down.
The living swept ahead, the dying lay in the wake.

The insatiate killer clung on, riding deep into the surging sea of rolling humps. At times,
in savage sureness and cruelty, he did not ride abreast and drive the arrow into the lungs,
but shot from the rear, quartering, into the thin hide back of the ribs, so that the shaft
ranged forward into the intestines of the victim. If it did not bury, but hung free as the
animal kicked at it convulsively, he rode up, and with his hand pushed the shaft deeper, feeling
for the life, as the Indians called it, with short jabs of the imbedded missile. Master of
an old trade he was, and stimulated by the proofs of his skill, his followers emulated him
with their own weapons. The report of firearms, muffled by the rolling thunder of hoofs, was
almost continuous so long as the horses could keep touch with the herd.

Bridger paused only when his arrows were out, and grumbled to himself that he had no more,
so could count only a dozen fallen buffalo for his product. That others, wounded, carried off
arrows, he called bad luck and bad shooting. When he trotted back on his reeking horse, his
quiver dancing empty, he saw other black spots than his own on the short grass. His followers
had picked up the art not so ill. There was meat in sight now, certainly--as well as a half
dozen unhorsed riders and three or four wounded buffalo disposed to fight.

The old hunter showed his men how to butcher the buffalo, pulling them on their bellies, if
they had not died thus, and splitting the hide down the back, to make a receptacle for the
meat as it was dissected; showed them how to take out the tongue beneath the jaw, after slitting
open the lower jaw. He besought them not to throw away the back fat, the hump, the boss ribs
or the intestinal boudins; in short, gave them their essential buffalo-hunting lessons. Then
he turned for camp, he himself having no relish for squaw's work, as he called it, and well
assured the wagons would now have abundance.

Banion and Jackson, with their followers, held their hunt some miles below the scene of Bridger's
chase, and had no greater difficulty in getting among the herds.

"How're ye ridin', Will?" asked Jackson before they mounted for the start from camp.

Banion slapped the black stallion on the neck.

"Not his first hunt!" said he.

"I don't mean yore hoss, but yore shootin' irons. Whar's yore guns?"

"I'll risk it with the dragoon revolvers," replied Banion, indicating his holsters. "Not the
first time for them, either."

"No? Well, maybe-so they'll do; but fer me, I want a hunk o' lead. Fer approachin' a buffler,
still-huntin', the rifle's good, fer ye got time an' kin hold close. Plenty o' our men'll hunt
thataway to-day, an' git meat; but fer me, give me a hunk o' lead. See here now, I got only
a shotgun, cap an' ball, fourteen gauge, she is, an' many a hide she's stretched. I kerry my
bullets in my mouth an' don't use no patchin'--ye hain't got time, when ye're runnin' in the
herd. I let go a charge o' powder out'n my horn, clos't as I kin guess hit, spit in a bullet,
and roll her home on top the powder with a jar o' the butt on top my saddle horn. That sots
her down, an' she holds good enough to stay in till I ram the muzzle inter ha'r an' let go.
She's the same as meat on the fire."

"Well," laughed Banion, "you've another case of de gustibus, I suppose."

"You're another, an' I call it back!" exclaimed the old man so truculently that his friend
hastened to explain.

"Well, I speak Blackfoot, Crow, Bannack, Grow Vaw, Snake an' Ute," grumbled the scout, "but
I never run acrost no Latins out here. I allowed maybe-so ye was allowin' I couldn't kill buffler
with Ole Sal. That's what I keep her fer--just buffler. I'll show ye afore long."

And even as Bridger had promised for his favorite weapon, he did prove beyond cavil the efficiency
of Old Sal. Time after time the roar or the double roar of his fusee was heard, audible even
over the thunder of the hoofs; and quite usually the hunk of lead, driven into heart or lights,
low down, soon brought down the game, stumbling in its stride. The old halfbreed style of loading,
too, was rapid enough to give Jackson as many buffalo as Bridger's bow had claimed before his
horse fell back and the dust cloud lessened in the distance.

The great speed and bottom of Banion's horse, as well as the beast's savage courage and hunting
instinct, kept him in longer touch with the running game. Banion was in no haste. From the
sound of firing he knew his men would have meat. Once in the surge of the running herd, the
rolling backs, low heads and lolling tongues, shaggy frontlets and gleaming eyes all about
him, he dropped the reins on Pronto's neck and began his own work carefully, riding close and
holding low, always ready for the sudden swerve of the horse away from the shot to avoid the
usual rush of the buffalo when struck. Since he took few chances, his shot rarely failed. In
a mile or so, using pains, he had exhausted all but two shots, one in each weapon, and of course
no man could load the old cap-and-ball revolver while in the middle of a buffalo run. Now,
out of sheer pride in his own skill with small arms, he resolved upon attempting a feat of
which he once had heard but never had seen.

Jackson, at a considerable distance to the rear, saw his leader riding back of two bulls which
he had cut off and which were making frantic efforts to overtake the herd. After a time they
drew close together, running parallel and at top speed. At the distance, what Jackson saw was
a swift rush of the black horse between the two bulls. For an instant the three seemed to run
neck and neck. Then the rider's arms seemed extended, each on its side. Two puffs of blue smoke
stained the gray dust. The black horse sprang straight ahead, not swerving to either side.
Two stumbling forms slowed, staggered and presently fell. Then the dust passed, and he saw
the rider trot back, glancing here and there over the broad rolling plain at the work of himself
and his men.

"I seed ye do hit, boy!" exclaimed the grizzled old hunter when they met. "I seed ye plain,
an' ef I hadn't, an' ye'd said ye'd did hit, I'd of said ye was a liar."

"Oh, the double?" Banion colored, not ill pleased at praise from Sir Hubert, praise indeed.
"Well, I'd heard it could be done."

"Once is enough. Let 'em call ye a liar atter this! Ef ary one o' them bulls had hit ye ye'd
have had no hoss; an' ary one was due to hit ye, or drive ye against the other, an' then he
would. That's a trap I hain't ridin' inter noways, not me!"

He looked at his own battered piece a trifle ruefully.

"Well, Ole Sal," said he, "'pears like you an' me ain't newfangled enough for these times,
not none! When I git to Oregon, ef I ever do, I'm a goin' to stay thar. Times back, five year
ago, no one dreamed o' wagons, let alone plows. Fust thing, they'll be makin' plows with wheels,
an' rifles that's six-shooters too!"

He laughed loud and long at his own conceit.

"Well, anyways," said he, "we got meat. We've licked one red nation an' got enough meat to
feed the white nation, all in a couple o' days. Not so bad--not so bad."

And that night, in the two separate encampments, the white nation, in bivouac, on its battle
ground, sat around the fires of bois des vaches till near morning, roasting boss ribs, breaking
marrowbones, laughing, singing, boasting, shaking high their weapons of war, men making love
to their women--the Americans, most terrible and most successful of all savages in history.

But from one encampment two faces were missing until late--Banion and Jackson of the Missourians.
Sam Woodhull, erstwhile column captain of the great train, of late more properly to be called
unattached, also was absent. It was supposed by their friends that these men might be out late,
superintending the butchering, or that at worst they were benighted far out and would find
their way to camp the next morning.

Neither of these guesses was correct. Any guess, to be correct, must have included in one solution
the missing men of both encampments, who had hunted miles apart.

CHAPTER XXI

THE QUICKSANDS

As Banion and Jackson ended their part in the buffalo running and gave instructions to the
wagon men who followed to care for the meat, they found themselves at a distance of several
miles from their starting point. They were deep into a high rolling plateau where the going
was more difficult than in the level sunken valley of the Platte. Concluding that it would
be easier to ride the two sides of the triangle than the one over which they had come out,
they headed for the valley at a sharp angle. As they rode, the keen eye of Jackson caught sight
of a black object apparently struggling on the ground at the bottom of a little swale which
made down in a long ribbon of green.

"Look-ee yan!" he exclaimed. "Some feller's lost his buffler, I expect. Let's ride down an'
put him out'n his misery afore the wolves does."

They swung off and rode for a time toward the strange object. Banion pulled up.

"That's no buffalo! That's a man and his horse! He's bogged down!"

"You're right, Will, an' bogged bad! I've knew that light-green slough grass to cover the wurst
sort o' quicksand. She runs black sand under the mud, God knows how deep. Ye kain't run a buffler
inter hit--he knows. Come on!"

They spurred down a half mile of gentle slope, hard and firm under foot, and halted at the
edge of one of the strange man-traps which sometimes were found in the undrained Plains--a
slough of tall, coarse, waving grass which undoubtedly got its moisture from some lower stratum.

In places a small expanse of glistening black mud appeared, although for the most part the
mask of innocent-looking grass covered all signs of danger. It was, in effect, the dreaded
quicksand, the octopus of the Plains, which covered from view more than one victim and left
no discoverable trace.

The rider had attempted to cross a narrow neck of the slough. His mount had begun to sink and
flounder, had been urged forward until the danger was obvious. Then, too late, the rider had
flung off and turned back, sinking until his feet and legs were gripped by the layer of deep
soft sand below. It was one of the rarest but most terrible accidents of the savage wilderness.

Blackened by the mud which lay on the surface, his hat half buried, his arms beating convulsively
as he threw himself forward again and again, the victim must in all likelihood soon have exhausted
himself. The chill of night on the high Plains soon would have done the rest, and by good fortune
he might have died before meeting his entombment. His horse ere this had accepted fate, and
ceasing to struggle lay almost buried, his head and neck supported by a trembling bit of floating
grass roots.

"Steady, friend!" called out Banion as he ran to the edge. "Don't fight it! Spread out your
arms and lie still! We'll get you out!"

"Quick! My lariat, Jackson, and yours!" he added.

The scout was already freeing the saddle ropes. The two horses stood, reins down, snorting
at the terror before them, whose menace they now could sense. My father never talks about it;
Mom, with care, it is enough; to Leocadia likes going to church when there are large parties,
the absence of other more fun but more expensive than you are banned, and as to me ... Callus:
I do not want you to call me herejote. Anyway, I'm not alone.

Just for today: you can not complain that I write little.

It is with care, because tomorrow, if I can, go see your father if
you have something to send.

Yours always,

PEPE.

"

The letter, in answer to it, found the next day Pateta under unsafe
tiles oven stove, said:

"My Dear Pepe:

By God, I ask you not torment
me so.

I've told you a thousand times. I love you because yes, because I think you're the best man,
and do not ask me more. Do not you usually say My father raised me like other women? Well, that
is. If you had a great fortune, would perhaps easier for us to be each other, but I would like now
could not give even a lint more than affection. So do not give me grief or tontunas, not ever
say to leave you, or that if I leave I will endure. If you think it is because I want. Am I
rich? All the better. Come out and poor, and if not, I want to I have become, provided that
you do not look at any other woman. Do you understand? That's all I do not forgive ever. We agreed
that you will never go again nor do I write nonsense: not deserve another Name the things you say.
My father will not let me marry you, but do you marry another? That if you do not! What is this
answer you Peace. Come on, I do not understand these sublime sacrifices from you and nonsense.
I have not thought, or think, or think you down for ever in nothing in this world. Do you know?
I have read so many books of which has my father, me Don Quijote agreement says that all the
knights wore on his shield a sign. Well, you and I are two men walking with this sign: love
and patience. Like it? Well, shut up and not waste time on wishes sad. Ensure that people
who hopes to despair: no matter. I am content with who I love very much. I think this has nothing
to do with social conventions, with the humility of your house or your bitterness. If you loved
me as I to you, would not require more. Do you think I will get nun or forcibly married to a
prince of a fairy tale? Am I stupid? You'll see, you'll see, when you know my father as I know
you!

Concerning the coming of your brother, I can tell you anything, but
I figure that you see everything black.

Until you know what your situation, there is no need to hurry. If you come to expect, you should
dare to ask Dad to recommend him to anyone. Would you be angry if I tell you that your fears I look
stupid? Is it to be bad because it is cured? Undoubtedly, this is what you have been occurred.
In truth, the thing is rare, be so big brothers and do not know, but see how that's why you
have no trouble. And if you suffer, I love you a little more for miss anything.

Goodbye, sad me.

Do not ever forget your

PEACE.

"

XI

Tirso Following an ecclesiastical career, was one of those serious things in human life are
resolved quickly and with little intervention concerned.

One Don Tadeo, a friend of his father, who pay a debt of gratitude is first made by of education,
then the future of the boy, was honest and good, but fan reviews political and religious beliefs.
Their excess of faith and realism was honest, and undisputed its influence and prestige among
the supporters of the legitimacy and people from church inhabiting the region. For long periods,
in which he ordered the moderate party, retained Don Tadeo its fate in the Treasury of the
province and was one of many protected Carlist by the Poles, who considered less dangerous to
attract supporters of the Pretender compromise with liberals. Past few years, and governing
a liberal ministry, its peers and subordinates prepared the terrible snare whose disastrous denouement
did head Jose statements. The case made against him or cause gave no result that dismissal, but this
fact, which went unnoticed by the rest of the nation, was important local event. Thereafter,
Don Tadeo was to his enemies become a poor man, and in the eyes of his supporters as a martyr:
he, imagining make good his downfall, he devoted himself entirely to be an instrument of ideas ever
had inclination. The clergy of the capital of the province, which initially was considered
as a victim, then by his strength, he had the strong man, and seeing it as a character willing
to fight with greater freedom than the church, tacitly and insensibly awarded leadership.
He became what we now call a bishop of the Levite, the pair local chief a game. A home were
constantly the canons of the cathedral, the missionaries that often made trips to the city, journalists
and even the Catholic prelate the diocese. According to these people, Don Tadeo charge of education
and future of Tirso was a meritorious act, thought he paid his debt of gratitude to the best
of ever did anyone, especially a child that starting from the jaws
of a parent progresistón and perhaps heretical, it seemed a wonderful
thing.

For his part, Mr. Thaddeus did not attempt to say Jose was a pity he had liberalescas trends.

Tirso
raised a housewife in a village, and could do a goat, a sexton, protected by Don Tadeo, taught
from small to read, write, count and pray, after eight years knew how to help mass, and at
fourteen and her godfather could be used to write letters and run errands of those who do not
trust to servants. In contrast to their parents wrote very little, and when I did, down at the
instigation of Don Tadeo that of its own accord. The friends of the former, seeing educated in
the fear of God, he was treated with special affection and, in return, Tirso became all respect
for those gentlemen, that he was included magnates. Priests, especially, he deserved special consideration.
The talking and trying to close for a few hours before had been officiating in the temple with
rich costumes and taking the people prostrated themselves around, was in his eyes it would
have been for boys increased between soldiers mingle with superiors. Unable to realize the greatness
of the ideas represented by those men, he seduced the position they occupied in the city. Under
a canopy walk, talk from the pulpit and give a hand to kiss, seemed more signs of prestige to ride
music front, sword in hand and battalions behind, so when he told his godfather to study for
the priesthood, his childish imagination received the news with such emotion to joy. What other
career had to give a man dedicated to serve as guide means, through an agent to the interests
and biases of the clergy? A canon was the one who decided to fate of the boy, answering and
Don Tadeo, who consulted on the matter: - "No You could think of nothing better. If the boy is
the chosen and get a luminary of the Church What glory for you! If not ... it will have a career
as good as any. And so it is up to his parents - he added - understand that complain if the guy
you should mark another path, but who can take the wrong purpose so noble? "- Shortly after entering
Tirso in the seminary, where, incidentally, under the influence of those who took him did not
suffer hazing endured by others.

Then they began to pay off the separation from family and lack of Tirso parents who spent the
first years of his life. The voice sounded powerful and compelling self-interest, Don Tadeo saying that
man could do, that your family, however, had no means for it. He had talked so much the fear
of God and so little of his own mother, who praised the idea of ​​being a minister of the
Lord.

The first effect of religious education was to make him understand that his future would correspond
harbored the hope that seeing and envying those who frequented the house of his protector.
The lessons from teachers and books that put him in his hands, he
said the mission of the priest was superior to anything I could imagine
their ambitions.

The most famous of the prophets, the precursor San Juan, had the joy of putting your hands after
on the head of Christ: he, as a priest, he would every day in his, and he consecrate his words.
The angels are continually about God, but what angel has, as he was to enjoy it, the power to
forgive sins? In the womb of the Virgin incarnate the Word, but only once: in the hands of a priest,
by virtue of output sentences from his lips, incarnate the Word every day, and not as deadly, as
he conceived Mary of Nazareth, but impassible, immortal, glorious,
as it is in heaven.

What power and dignity was the same as yours?

Two distinct features of his personality began to develop in him during this time of his life, while
a student at the seminary. His intelligence, late in understanding, became accustomed to admit what
they gave thought, as preferable to the work of thinking for own,
and the ease with which he could continue the race for that protection
to be dispensed, he did little humble.

There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments of Latin, philosophy impaired
and some moral Jesuit, but continued the race can, soaking Theodicy,
Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law and church discipline, up to a
doctorate in Theology in all of which eight years elapsed, after which
the juvenile was ordered.

Happy Day one in which the simple tonsure him a soldier of the militia of Christ! But this that did
not sprout in your soul to the warmth of faith, or hopefully your good intentions with what
could make managing the divine weapons which would be granted, but born of contact used by
the docility with which she received the words heard so often promised, as was the priest, the
supremacy over other men. The priest is an ambassador speaking on behalf of God, and despise is insulting
to whom he sends, he said, taking St. John Chrysostom, repeating this and other similar phrases
over and over again to soak of the nobility of their mission, as did the pagan oracles to those
who aspired refer to your service. Minor orders of porter, lector, exorcist and acolyte seemed full
of charm, in the amount of dignity and by indicating that advertised. Being goalie the house of
God! Read the word of God to the people! Throw the evil enemy outside
the body in which prey!

Able to approach the Holy of Holies! What a great and enviable privileges!

At last the day of receiving major orders. The Church, speaking to him presented and referring
to him and his companions, asked if they were worthy (worthy illos SCIS " esse?) imposed several
days after withdrawal and exercises, and then anointed and sanctified their hands, making them
the paten and chalice to pair with amazement of the angels, pronounced the archbishop solemnly
these words: Accipe offerre sacrificium Deo potestatem, Misasque celebrare, quam pro tam pro defunctis
you live, in nomine Domini, Amen, and then placed the hands over
his head saying, Accipe spiritum Sanctum, quorum peccata remiseris,
remittuntur eis, et quorum retinueris, retention sunt.

The worm born sinful mouth, the fruit of profane love, the son of carnal passion, impurity was suddenly
redeemed and elevated to a greater dignity than that of kings, coated with powers similar to God,
as the books said they did study. It was a priest; I could intervene in the most noble of
human government, in the care of the soul. But look at the fertile bosom of Nature causes of things,
he said it was stir impurities of matter to dive into the consciousness to illuminate his
reason with the Truth labeled him a wicked, read the life of the people, it decried as sterile
work because Providence's finger traces the destinies of man, listen to your heart, I was warned
to surrender to joy, and love to put on your lips, kinky and distorted
the words of Christ to his mother: What do I have with you, woman?

Don Tadeo, far from letting abandoned their own forces, gave parish, and Tirso after his first
Mass in the capital of the province, which gave rise to a party count was a royalist forces, went
to live in a village, rather, valley, whose harsh inequalities was scattered hamlet homes and
poor people miserable, about who should start to exercise their sacred ministry. Then he devoted himself
entirely to the needs of their state: the Masses, baptisms, weddings, confessions and funerals,
preaching, and sometimes take part in games of his parishioners, were the main occupations.
The few books that led to his retirement eventually serve as a base to an image enclosed in
a box: the study was annoying him. At four months, his only reading was that of absolutist Catholic
newspaper recommended by the bishop of the diocese: Theology, the Scriptures, the Fathers, the
intellectual work represented, was forgotten emerging in its place another kind of business reasons
for thinking, and replacing distinct lineage of devotion to the serious
contemplation of the mysteries and dogmas.

Before that, though little worried something of natural religion, which precludes any revelation,
just the man to save himself as to whether the experience of the senses or through awareness
can be reached, as by faith, to the knowledge of God, whether the method is better demonstration
that the hypothetical and analytic: but soon settled down such impulses, and as if that influenced
the country life, overriding the material to the ideal, fell into a devotion vulgar, and thought,
without tending to spread, got locked in impenetrable boundaries. The first sermon he gave
was of a man who has begun to study: after one year, the sanctification of the parties, the
Immaculate Conception, the Pope's guards, modern miracles, the wickedness of civil marriage, free
call of infamy educated, were his favorite subjects, and the peasants, who at first did not
understand him, began to be excited about his speech, which was not greedy, but the generous, experiencing
something akin to the pride of the mission accomplished. When from the pulpit looked gathered
the flock of the faithful who heard him in devout silence, I imagined
to be the highest performing and noble of human destiny.

There was nothing in his conduct reprehensible. Filled with zeal his duty, barely, very late to
time, wrote a letter, understated and brief, their parents, already used to that distance,
as parents of a son ocean sailing across the world.

His life was relaxed, monotonous, without emotions that agitate and musings which reveals, placid,
perhaps selfish, analogous to a peaceful silence of the countryside.

From the windows of his room covered with eyes wide space, extensive plantings of turnips,
lush cornfields, hollows where sound of running water rose, small houses and scattered half hidden
among the foliage of large brown cupped, and there, on top of a Hill, a chapel with the cross
of overhead cut short by the wind. On the slopes of forests, land tracts seemed ungrateful to
all human endeavor, the summits were crowned of the angles bald rocks gnawed through the centuries,
and stood granite peaks erect in defiance of time. The sky of this region was rarely serene to morning
and evening, at any time of year the ground was covered with mists, licking slopes and high,
rose gradually to form clouds, which, based on ridges of the mountain, tended the flight through
the air, mingling, to the ends of the horizon with other clouds coming from more distant mountains.
The spread of the village contributed to the Tirso lonely, so I had some friction with his parishioners,
almost the precise relationships given its position, so that, no respect is the confidence waned,
and frequency the deal could engender intimacy.

Many years ago in that neighborhood do not remember a priest so secretive and uncommunicative.

Tirso was a rough character, his roughness seemed to intimate the result of some pride for compliance
of duty, and farmers always kept a reserve calculated as if he thought that befitting his status
as a priest the separation of human misery. What contributed most to its reputation, was the
indifference expressed towards women since he took office the parish. Talking to men was cold, and
dry a few words, but this coldness and rose sharply from point to deal with women, for whom he
was only on the lips sourly and thought suspiciously. His youth and the free life of the clergy in
those lands were emphasize more this antipathy to women. Family members in the offices of the
diocese handled the secret record of the conduct of the clergy of the diocese, took many months
believe that there was a womanizer, and espionage, it was not free to be godson Don Tadeo,
only managed to find that, using what was close to his parish city, Tirso used to go to the people
a couple of times a month, remaining there some hours, no one knew where or what he was going.
This made a thousand conjectures on malice; but nothing came to know
with certainty.

Such was the life of Tirso during the first years of their stay in those areas where certainly
was not easy to undertake all the promises of dignity and grandeur
that made it their own imagination and those who consecrated to the
priesthood.

        Then suddenly, and in a few weeks, his life moved in full course.

* * * * *

In towns and villages began to be noticed strange restlessness and unusual move, replacing, to
conversations about the state of the field or the care of estates, dialogues expressed, not fear,
but hope next disorders.

They knew with indignation annoying things, and commented on in anger. The Revolution, which had
an oath to the Constitution sacrilegious priests, and girded on the crown of San Fernando a
son of the jailor of the Pope, seemed to launch a new and appalling excesses governments that happened
in Madrid were composed of enemies of the Church of some of the ministers Protestants were said
and added that the court was hatched a conspiracy to suppress the salaries of pastors and
their convents throw the poor nuns who escaped persecution of the year 68. At this news, first spread
cautiously, and then violent forms, said the region with intense anxiety. The people spoke greedy
to receive and communicate new to justify the exaltation of spirits, those who could not read,
ie the largest number, gathered in circles to hear the relationship
in letters or newspapers are made of state of Spain, which resembled
have fallen to the Moors, began to act with respect leaders names
forgotten, and people who never flaunted its opinion, said frankly
that if, in those valleys he heard the cry God, Country and King,
will answer to him with enthusiasm.

They were now amid great and varied abundance of game. A thousand buffalo, five, ten, might
be in sight at one time, and the ambition of every man to kill his buffalo long since had been
gratified. Black-tailed deer and antelope were common, and even the mysterious bighorn sheep
of which some of them had read. Each tributary stream now had its delicious mountain trout.
The fires at night had abundance of the best of food, cooked for the most part over the native
fuel of the bois des vaches.

The grass showed yet shorter, proving the late presence of the toiling Mormon caravan on ahead.
The weather of late June was hot, the glare of the road blinding. The wagons began to fall
apart in the dry, absorbent air of the high country. And always skeletons lay along the trail.
An ox abandoned by its owners as too footsore for further travel might better have been shot
than abandoned. The gray wolves would surely pull it down before another day. Continuously
such tragedies of the wilderness went on before their wearying eyes.

Breaking down from the highlands through the Ash Hollow gap, the train felt its way to the
level of the North Fork of the great river which had led them for so long. Here some trapper
once had built a cabin--the first work of the sort in six hundred miles--and by some strange
concert this deserted cabin had years earlier been constituted a post office of the desert.
Hundreds of letters, bundles of papers were addressed to people all over the world, east and
west. No government recognized this office, no postage was employed in it. Only, in the hope
that someone passing east or west would carry on the inclosures without price, folk here sent
out their souls into the invisible.

"How far'll we be out, at Laramie?" demanded Molly Wingate of the train scout, Bridger, whom
Banion had sent on to Wingate in spite of his protest.

"Nigh onto six hundred an' sixty-seven mile they call hit, ma'am, from Independence to Laramie,
an' we'll be two months a-makin' hit, which everges around ten mile a day."

"But it's most to Oregon, hain't it?"

"Most to Oregon? Ma'am, it's nigh three hundred mile beyond Laramie to the South Pass, an'
the South Pass hain't half-way to Oregon. Why, ma'am, we ain't well begun!"

CHAPTER XXV

OLD LARAMIE

An old gray man in buckskins sat on the ground in the shade of the adobe stockade at old Fort
Laramie, his knees high in front of him, his eyes fixed on the ground. His hair fell over his
shoulders in long curls which had once been brown. His pointed beard fell on his breast. He
sat silent and motionless, save that constantly he twisted a curl around a forefinger, over
and over again. It was his way. He was a long-hair, a man of another day. He had seen the world
change in six short years, since the first wagon crossed yonder ridges, where now showed yet
one more wagon train approaching.

He paid no attention to the debris and discard of this new day which lay all about him as he
sat and dreamed of the days of trap and packet. Near at hand were pieces of furniture leaning
against the walls, not bought or sold, but abandoned as useless here at Laramie. Wagon wheels,
tireless, their fellies falling apart, lay on the ground, and other ruins of great wagons,
dried and disjointed now.

Dust lay on the ground. The grass near by was all cropped short. Far off, a village of the
Cheyennes, come to trade, and sullen over the fact that little now could be had for robes or
peltries, grazed their ponies aside from the white man's road. Six hundred lodges of the Sioux
were on the tributary river a few miles distant. The old West was making a last gallant stand
at Laramie.

Inside the gate a mob of white men, some silent and businesslike, many drunken and boisterous,
pushed here and there for access to the trading shelves, long since almost bare of goods. Six
thousand emigrants passed that year.

It was the Fourth of July in Old Laramie, and men in jeans and wool and buckskin were celebrating.
Old Laramie had seen life--all of life, since the fur days of La Ramée in 1821. Having now
superciliously sold out to these pilgrims, reserving only alcohol enough for its own consumption,
Old Laramie was willing to let the world wag, and content to twiddle a man curl around a finger.

But yet another detachment of the great army following the hegira of the Mormons was now approaching
Laramie. In the warm sun of mid-morning, its worn wheels rattling, its cattle limping and with
lolling tongues, this caravan forded and swung wide into corral below the crowded tepees of
the sullen tribesmen.

Ahead of it now dashed a horseman, swinging his rifle over his head and uttering Indian yells.
He pulled up at the very door of the old adobe guard tower with its mounted swivel guns; swung
off, pushed on into the honeycomb of the inner structure.

The famous border fortress was built around a square, the living quarters on one side, the
trading rooms on another. Few Indians were admitted at one time, other than the Indian wives
of the engagés, the officials of the fur company or of the attached white or halfbreed hunters.
Above some of the inner buildings were sleeping lofts. The inner open space served as a general
meeting ground. Indolent but on guard, Old Laramie held her watch, a rear guard of the passing
West in its wild days before the plow.

All residents here knew Jim Bridger. He sought out the man in charge.

"How, Bordeaux?" he began. "Whar's the bourgeois, Papin?"

"Down river--h'east h'after goods."

The trader, hands on his little counter, nodded to his shelves.

"Nada!" he said in his polyglot speech. "Hi'll not got a damned thing lef'. How many loads
you'll got for your h'own post, Jeem?"

"Eight wagons. Iron, flour and bacon."

"Hi'll pay ye double here what you'll kin git retail there, Jeem, and take it h'all h'off your
hand. This h'emigrant, she'll beat the fur."

"I'll give ye half," said Bridger. "Thar's people here needs supplies that ain't halfway acrost.
But what's the news, Bordeaux? Air the Crows down?"

"H'on the Sweetwater, h'awaitin' for the peelgrim. Hi'll heard of your beeg fight on the Platte.
Plenty beeg fight on ahead, too, maybe-so. You'll bust h'up the trade, Jeem. My Sioux, she's
scare to come h'on the post h'an' trade. He'll stay h'on the veelage, her."

"Every dog to his own yard. Is that all the news?"

"Five thousand Mormons, he'll gone by h'aready. H'womans pullin' the han'cart, sacre Enfant!
News--you'll h'ought to know the news. You'll been h'on the settlement six mont'!"

"Hit seemed six year. The hull white nation's movin'. So. That all?"

"Well, go h'ask Keet. He's come h'up South Fork yesterdays. Maybe-so quelq' cho' des nouvelles
h'out West. I dunno, me."

"Kit--Kit Carson, you mean? What's Kit doing here?"

"Oui. I dunno, me."

He nodded to a door. Bridger pushed past him. In an inner room a party of border men were playing
cards at a table. Among these was a slight, sandy-haired man of middle age and mild, blue eye.
It was indeed Carson, the redoubtable scout and guide, a better man even than Bridger in the
work of the wilderness.

"How are you, Jim?" he said quietly, reaching up a hand as he sat. "Haven't seen you for five
years. What are you doing here?"

He rose now and put down his cards. The game broke up. Others gathered around Bridger and greeted
him. It was some time before the two mountain men got apart from the others.

"What brung ye north, Kit?" demanded Bridger at length. "You was in Californy in '47, with
the General."

"Yes, I was in California this spring. The treaty's been signed with Mexico. We get the country
from the Rio Grande west, including California. I'm carrying dispatches to General Kearny at
Leavenworth. There's talk about taking over Laramie for an Army post. The tribes are up in
arms. The trade's over, Jim."

"What I know, an' have been sayin'! Let's have a drink, Kit, fer old times."

Laughing, Carson turned his pockets inside out. As he did so something heavy fell from his
pocket to the floor. In courtesy as much as curiosity Bridger stooped first to pick it up.
As he rose he saw Carson's face change as he held out his hand.

"What's this stone, Kit--yer medicine?"

But Bridger's own face altered suddenly as he now guessed the truth. He looked about him suddenly,
his mouth tight. Kit Carson rose and they passed from the room. So the
legend would have it all in a single tragedy and not two. The work thus regularly win and unity,
but lost in grandeur. It was necessary, therefore, that the love of a woman by cute and innocent
it was, would not the main reason that wise as large as Faust devilish that way. And it was necessary
that the first tragedy and should give presuppose things and prepare the second, leaving not
a few loose ends related then each other. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more
praise than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion the simple
and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect on bad
consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses more resources
to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling comedy. That
is how it should be. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene diabolical
beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying would
vanish. The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent, are
made merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in
the dramatic fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision
of Goethe's style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded
lyricism, giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm. This charm is the mystery of Margaret,
from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and stand out with such truth of the picture and the
soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and is recorded in a wide indelible memory as if it had
existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts
the poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking,
devoted false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue.
Mephistopheles dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic force: now when
Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of her husband, now when the compliment and
love.

Martha in the garden look and speak Faust and Marguerite.

Margarita is now captive, wounded in the heart, fired by an irresistible and inexhaustible affection.

This
is followed by a beautiful soliloquy of Faust in a forest. Faust hesitates. Proud to be loved, despite
the violent burning of the senses, thinks, for the love that infuses Margarita, that they should
reject it, in order not to lose it and cheat. Know that you can only give a skeptical and tired
soul in exchange for his soul youthful and pure. Intervention is
necessary telling the devil to get to Faust of his hesitation. The singers no longer knew they sang. The border
feast had lasted long. Keg after keg had been broached. The Indian drums were going. Came the
sound of monotonous chants, broken with staccato yells as the border dance, two races still
mingling, went on with aboriginal excesses on either side. On the slopes as dusk came twinkled
countless tepee fires. Dogs barked mournfully a-distant. The heavy half roar of the buffalo
wolves, superciliously confident, echoed from the broken country.

Now and again a tall Indian, naked save where he clutched his robe to him unconsciously, came
staggering to his tepee, his face distorted, yelling obscene words and not knowing what he
said. Patient, his youngest squaw stood by his tepee, his spear held aloft to mark his door
plate, waiting for her lord to come. Wolfish dogs lay along the tepee edges, noses in tails,
eyeing the master cautiously. A grumbling old woman mended the fire at her own side of the
room, nearest the door, spreading smooth robes where the man's medicine hung at the willow
tripod, his slatted lazyback near by. In due time all would know whether at the game of "hands,"
while the feast went on, the little elusive bone had won or lost for him. Perhaps he had lost
his horses, his robes, his weapons--his squaws. The white man's medicine was strong, and there
was much of it on his feasting day.

From the stockade a band of mounted Indians, brave in new finery, decked with eagle bonnets
and gaudy in beaded shirts and leggings, rode out into the slopes, chanting maudlin songs.
They were led by the most beautiful young woman of the tribe, carrying a wand topped by a gilded
ball, and ornamented with bells, feathers, natural flowers. As the wild pageant passed the
proud savages paid no attention to the white men.

The old gray man at the gate sat and twisted his long curls.

And none of them knew the news from California.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE FIRST GOLD

The purple mantle of the mountain twilight was dropping on the hills when Bridger and Carson
rode out together from the Laramie stockade to the Wingate encampment in the valley. The extraordinary
capacity of Bridger in matters alcoholic left him still in fair possession of his faculties;
but some new purpose, born of the exaltation of alcohol, now; held his mind.

"Let me see that little dingus ye had, Kit," said he--"that piece o' gold."

Carson handed it to him.

"Ye got any more o' hit, Kit?"

"Plenty! You can have it if you'll promise not to tell where it came from, Jim."

"If I do, Jim Bridger's a liar, Kit!" Leaning against the side walls to the street, sat on a swing feet on the rung of the chair
before him, a young Mary Rule it seemed white. This color was her dress, but the black cambric
handkerchief belting his turning neck on the copious black hair braids crowning fact the well-modeled
head black shoes the golden carriage that held her little feet high tops and arched bridge, the
beautiful stranger wearing mourning in the body and heart, as the deep sadness that we announce
both his face and attitude. For garments clothes that looked at the floor in the back of the
chair and in the same lap, she started see stitching, of whose work did not look up but at
times your partner, which treated the same way, opened the front door and helped to lay in the
doorway the board's heavy selling.

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory
of Mary of Regla could not be more appropriate occasion, and so it
was, then repeated in a whisper, step behind its protective: - The
girl Adela!

Adela girl!, Beyond comparison in its mind the face of it with the youngest of his love.

As the butcher hear the refrain, said in a tone of repression:

- Ah! That nine no Nama Adel, Sesil Nama.

Better to keep quiet, she thought the rule and said no word, but stood his ground, for As he
continued to believe that singular resemblance between the girl and the mourning of the house
across the street from the firehouse, whose description saved for
the first opportunity.

Even the two p.m. walked the black wandering the city streets and in the part time butcher achieved
silver reducing the effects had on the board. For popularly called the gate of the Wall, came
to Alameda and sat on a seat stone, protected by a leafy tree, between
the old café in Athens and the statue Carlos III.

A dirty canvas bag whose mouth was collected with a string, and wore Genoveva within, removed and
counted to twelve dollars in Seville ESP, and means royal silver
of which, net of seven, more or less cost of goods traded, played
down a net gain of five dollars.
This year, what I'll take in for my cargo, what I'll make cash money fer work fer the immygrints,
I'll salt down anyways ten thousand; next year maybe twicet that, or even more. I sartainly
will do a good trade with them Mormons."

"I suppose," said the girl, patient with what she knew was alcoholic garrulity.

"An' out there's the purtiest spot west o' the Rockies, My valley is ever'thing a man er a
womern can ask or want. And me, I'm a permanent man in these yere parts. It's me, Jim Bridger,
that fust diskivered the Great Salt Lake. Rose from the bench that worked,
and walked with his hands behind his back, in a gesture of surrender.

The forward motion of the fugitive determined by another opposed by the pursuer, which was fatal.
Grande, as mentioned, was the slope of the street, and was also arrested then the door of a
flying shoe alquilones blocking the road. To field, Tonda, and dismounted, fell short distance,
neglect him that was exploited in The moment the cunning cook, to splinter inside and open the
belly from side to side the same utility knife that was used for repairing the soles of shoes.
Injured and all the heroic Tonda, pursued the murderer, falling lifeless to just ride through
honda street. One's named Blast Yore Hide,
an' t'other Dang Yore Eyes. Which, ef ye ask me, is two names right an' fitten, way I feel now."

All at once Jim Bridger was all Indian again. He turned and stalked a-way. She heard his voice
rising in his Indian chant as she turned back to her own wagon fire.

But now shouts were arising, cries coming up the line. A general movement was taking place
toward the lower end of the camp, where a high quavering call rose again and again.

"There's news!" said Carson to Jesse Wingate quietly. "That's old Bill Jackson's war cry, unless
I am mistaken. Is he with you?"

"He was," said Wingate bitterly. "He and his friends broke away from the train and have been
flocking by themselves since then."

Three men rode up to the Wingate wagon, and two flung off. Jackson was there, yes, and Jed
Wingate, his son. The third man still sat his horse. Wingate straightened.

"Mr. Banion! So you see fit to come into my camp?" For the time he had no answer.

"How are you, Bill?" said Kit Carson quietly, as he now stepped forward from the shadows. The
older man gave him a swift glance.

"Kit! You here--why?" he demanded. "I've not seed ye, Kit, sence the last Rendyvous on the
Green. Ye've been with the Army on the coast?"

"Yes. Going east now."

"Allus ridin' back and forerd acrost the hull country. I'd hate to keep ye in buckskin breeches,
Kit. But ye're carryin' news?"

"Yes," said Carson. "Dispatches about new Army posts--to General Kearny. Some other word for
him, and some papers to the Adjutant General of the Army. Besides, some letters from Lieutenant
Beale in Mexico, about war matters and the treaty, like enough. You know, we'll get all the
southern country to the Coast?"

"An' welcome ef we didn't! Not a beaver to the thousand miles, Kit. I'm goin' to Oregon--goin'
to settle in the Nez Percé country, whar there's horses an' beaver."

"But wait a bit afore you an' me gits too busy talkin'. Ye see, I'm with Major Banion, yan,
an' the Missoury train. We're in camp ten mile below. We wouldn't mix with these people no
more--only one way--but I reckon the Major's got some business o' his own that brung him up.
I rid with him. We met the boy an' ast him to bring us in. We wasn't sure how friendly our
friends is feelin' towards him an' me."

He grinned grimly. As he spoke they both heard a woman's shrilling, half greeting, half terror.
Wingate turned in time to see his daughter fall to the ground in a sheer faint.

Will Banion slipped from his saddle and hurried forward.

CHAPTER XXVII

TWO WHO LOVED

Jesse Wingate made a swift instinctive motion toward the revolver which swung at his hip. But
Jed sprang between him and Banion.

"No! Hold on, Pap--stop!" cried Jed. "It's all right. I brought him in.

"As a prisoner?"

"I am no man's prisoner, Captain Wingate," said Banion's deep voice.

His eyes were fixed beyond the man to whom he spoke. He saw Molly, to whom her mother now ran,
to take the white face in her own hands. Wingate looked from one to the other.

"Why do you come here? What do I owe you that you should bring more trouble, as you always
have? And what do you owe me?"

"I owe you nothing!" said Banion. "You owe me nothing at all. I have not traveled in your train,
and I shall not travel in it. I tell you once more, you're wrong in your beliefs; but till
I can prove that I'll not risk any argument about it."

"Then why do you come to my camp now?"

"You should know."

"I do know. It's Molly!"

"It's Molly, yes. Here's a letter from her. I found it in the cabin at Ash Hollow. Your friend
Woodhull could have killed me--we passed him just now. Jed could have killed me--you can now;
it's easy. But that wouldn't change me. Perhaps it wouldn't change her."

"You come here to face me down?"

"No, sir. I know you for a brave man, at least. I don't believe I'm a coward--I never asked.
But I came to see Molly, because here she's asked it. I don't know why. Do you want to shoot
me like a coyote?"

"No. But I ask you, what do I owe you?"

"Nothing. But can we trade? If I promise to leave you with my train?"

"You want to steal my girl!"

"No! I want to earn her--some day."

The old Roman before him was a man of quick and strong decisions. The very courage of the young
man had its appeal.

"At least you'll eat," said he. "I'd not turn even a black Secesh away hungry--not even a man
with your record in the Army."

"No, I'll not eat with you."

"Wait then! I'll send the girl pretty soon, if you are here by her invitation. I'll see she
never invites you again."

Wingate walked toward his wagon. Banion kept out of the light circle and found his horse. He
stood, leaning his head on his arms in the saddle, waiting, until after what seemed an age
she slipped out of the darkness, almost into his arms, standing pale, her fingers lacing and
unlacing--the girl who had kissed him once--to say good-by.

"Will Banion!" she whispered. "Yes, I sent for you. I felt you'd find the letter."

"Yes, Molly." It was long before he would look at her. "You're the same," said he. "Only you've
grown more beautiful every day. It's hard to leave you--awfully hard. I couldn't, if I saw
you often."

He reached out again and took her in his arms, softly, kissed her tenderly on each cheek, whispered
things that lovers do say. But for his arms she would have dropped again, she was so weak.
She fought him off feebly.

"No! No! It is not right! No! No!"

"You're not going to be with us any more?" she said at last.

He shook his head. They both looked at his horse, his rifle, swung in its sling strap at the
saddle horn. She shook her head also.

"Is this the real good-by, Will?" Her lips trembled.

"It must be. I have given my word to your father. But why did you send for me? Only to torture
me? I must keep my word to hold my train apart. I've promised my men to stick with them."

"Yes, you mustn't break your word. And it was fine just to see you a minute, Will; just to
tell you--oh, to say I love you, Will! But I didn't think that was why I sent. I sent to warn
you--against him. It seems always to come to the same thing."

She was trying not to sob. The man was in but little better case. The stars did not want them
to part. All the somber wilderness world whispered for them to love and not to part at all.
But after a time they knew that they again had parted, or now were able to do so.

"Listen, Will," said the girl at last, putting back a lock of her fallen hair. "I'll have to
tell you. We'll meet in Oregon? I'll be married then. I've promised. Oh, God help me! I think
I'm the wickedest woman in all the world, and the most unhappy. Oh, Will Banion, I--I love
a thief! Even as you are, I love you! I guess that's why I sent for you, after all.

"Go find the scout--Jim Bridger!" she broke out suddenly. "He's going on ahead. Go on to his
fort with him--he'll have wagons and horses. He knows the way. Go with Bridger, Will! Don't
go to Oregon! I'm afraid for you. Go to California--and forget me! Tell Bridger--"

"Why, where is it?" she exclaimed.

She was feeling in the pocket of her apron, and it was empty.

"I've lost it!" she repeated. "I lose everything!"

"What was it, Molly?"

She leaned her lips to his ear.

"It was gold!"

He stood, the magic name of that metal which shows the color in the shade electrifying even
his ignorance of the truth.

"Gold?"

She told him then, breaking her own promise magnificently, as a woman will.

"Go, ride with Bridger," she went on. "Don't tell him you ever knew me. He'll not be apt to
speak of me. But they found it, in California, the middle of last winter--gold! Gold! Carson's
here in our camp--Kit Carson. He's the first man to bring it to the Valley of the Platte. He
was sworn to keep it secret; so was Bridger, and so am I. Not to Oregon, Will--California!
You can live down your past. If we die, God bless the man I do love. That's you, Will! And
I'm going to marry--him. Ten days! On the trail! And he'll kill you, Will! Oh, keep away!"

She paused, breathless from her torrent of incoherent words, jealous of the passing moments.
It was vague, it was desperate, it was crude. But they were in a world vague, desperate and crude.

"I've promised my men I'd not leave them," he said at last. "A promise is a promise."

"Then God help us both! But one thing--when I'm married, that's the end between us. So good-by."

He leaned his head back on his saddle for a time, his tired horse turning back its head. He
put out his hand blindly; but it was the muzzle of his horse that had touched his shoulder.
The girl was gone.

The Indian drums at Laramie thudded through the dark. The great wolf in the breaks lifted his
hoarse, raucous roar once more. The wilderness was afoot or bedding down, according to its like.

CHAPTER XXVIII

WHEN A MAID MARRIES

Carson, Bridger and Jackson, now reunited after years, must pour additional libations to Auld
Lang Syne at Laramie, so soon were off together. The movers sat around their thrifty cooking
fires outside the wagon corral. Wingate and his wife were talking heatedly, she in her nervousness
not knowing that she fumbled over and over in her fingers the heavy bit of rock which Molly
had picked up and which was in her handkerchief when it was requisitioned by her mother to
bathe her face just now. After a time she tossed the nugget aside into the grass. It was trodden
by a hundred feet ere long.

But gold will not die. In three weeks a prowling Gros Ventre squaw found it and carried it
to the trader, Bordeaux, asking, "Shoog?"

"Non, non!" replied the Laramie trader. "Pas de shoog!" But he looked curiously at the thing,
so heavy.

"How, cola!" wheedled the squaw. "Shoog!" She made the sign for sugar, her finger from her
palm to her lips. Bordeaux tossed the thing into the tin can on the shelf and gave her what
sugar would cover a spoon.

"Where?" He asked her, his fingers loosely shaken, meaning, "Where did you get it?"

The Gros Ventre lied to him like a lady, and told him, on the South Fork, on the Creek of Bitter
Cherries--near where Denver now is; and where placers once were. That was hundreds of miles
away. The Gros Ventre woman had been there once in her wanderings and had seen some heavy metal.

Years later, after Fort Laramie was taken over by the Government, Bordeaux as sutler sold much
flour and bacon to men hurrying down the South Fork to the early Colorado diggings. Meantime
in his cups he often had told the mythical tale of the Gros Ventre woman--long after California,
Idaho, Nevada, Montana were all afire. But one of his halfbreed children very presently had
commandeered the tin cup and its contents, so that to this day no man knows whether the child
swallowed the nugget or threw it into the Laramie River or the Platte River or the sagebrush.
Some depose that an emigrant bought it of the baby; but no one knows.

What all men do know is that gold does not die; nay, nor the news of it. And this news now,
like a multiplying germ, was in the wagon train that had started out for Oregon.

As for Molly, she asked no questions at all about the lost nugget, but hurried to her own bed,
supperless, pale and weeping. She told her father nothing of the nature of her meeting with
Will Banion, then nor at any time for many weeks.

"Molly, come here, I want to talk to you."

Wingate beckoned to his daughter the second morning after Banion's visit.

The order for the advance was given. The men had brought in the cattle and the yoking up was
well forward. The rattle of pots and pans was dying down. Dogs had taken their places on flank
or at the wagon rear, women were climbing up to the seats, children clinging to pieces of dried
meat. The train was waiting for the word.

The girl followed him calmly, high-headed.

"Molly, see here," he began. "We're all ready to move on. I don't know where Will Banion went,
but I want you to know, as I told him, that he can't travel in our train."

"He'll not ask to, father. He's promised to stick to his own men."

"He's left you at last! That's good. Now I want you to drop him from your thoughts. Hear that,
and heed it. I tell you once more, you're not treating Sam Woodhull right."

She made him no answer.

"You're still young, Molly," he went on. "Once you're settled you'll find Oregon all right.
Time you were marrying. You'll be twenty and an old maid first thing you know. Sam will make
you a good husband. Heed what I say."

But she did not heed, though she made no reply to him. Her eye, "scornful, threatening and
young," looked yonder where she knew her lover was; not was it in her soul ever to return from
following after him. The name of her intended husband left her cold as ice.

"Roll out! Roll out! Ro-o-o-ll ou-t!"

The call went down the line once more. The pistolry of the wagon whips made answer, the drone
of the drivers rose as the sore-necked oxen bowed their heads again, with less strength even
for the lightened loads.

The old man who sat by the gate at Fort Laramie, twisting a curl around his finger, saw the
plain clearing now, as the great train swung out and up the river trail. He perhaps knew that
Jim Bridger, with his own freight wagons, going light and fast with mules, was on west, ahead
of the main caravan. But he did not know the news Jim Bridger carried, the same news that Carson
was carrying east. The three old mountain men, for a few hours meeting after years, now were
passing far apart, never to meet again. Their chance encountering meant much to hundreds of
men and women then on the road to Oregon; to untold thousands yet to come.

As for one Samuel Woodhull, late column captain, it was to be admitted that for some time he
had been conscious of certain buffetings of fate. But as all thoroughbred animals are thin-skinned,
so are all the short-bred pachydermatous, whereby they endure and mayhap arrive at the manger
well as the next. True, even Woodhull's vanity and self-content had everything asked of them
in view of his late series of mishaps; but by now he had somewhat chirked up under rest and
good food, and was once more the dandy and hail fellow. He felt assured that very presently
bygones would be bygones. Moreover--so he reasoned--if he, Sam Woodhull, won the spoils, what
matter who had won any sort of victory? He knew, as all these others knew and as all the world
knows, that a beautiful woman is above all things spolia opima of war. Well, in ten days he
was to marry Molly Wingate, the most beautiful woman of the train and the belle of more than
one community. Could he not afford to laugh best, in spite of all events, even if some of them
had not been to his own liking?

But the girl's open indifference was least of all to his liking. It enraged his vain, choleric
nature to its inner core. Already he planned dominance; but willing to wait and to endure for
ten days, meantime he employed innocence, reticence, dignity, attentiveness, so that he seemed
a suitor misunderstood, misrepresented, unjustly used--to whose patient soul none the less
presently must arrive justice and exoneration, after which all would be happier even than a
marriage bell. After the wedding bells he, Samuel Woodhull, would show who was master.

Possessed once more of horse, arms and personal equipment, and having told his own story of
persecution to good effect throughout the train, Woodhull had been allowed to resume a nominal
command over a part of the Wingate wagons. The real control lay in the triumvirate who once
had usurped power, and who might do so again.

Wingate himself really had not much more than nominal control of the general company, although
he continued to give what Caleb Price called the easy orders. His wagons, now largely changed
to ox transport, still traveled at the head of the train, Molly continuing to drive her own
light wagon and Jed remaining on the cow column.

The advance hardly had left Fort Laramie hidden by the rolling ridges before Woodhull rode
up to Molly's wagon and made excuse to pass his horse to a boy while he himself climbed up
on the seat with his fiancée.

She made room for him in silence, her eyes straight ahead. The wagon cover made good screen
behind, the herdsmen were far in the rear, and from the wagons ahead none could see them. Yet
when, after a moment, her affianced husband dropped an arm about her waist the girl flung it
off impatiently.

"Don't!" she exclaimed. "I detest love-making in public. We see enough of it that can't be
hid. It's getting worse, more open, the farther we get out."

"The train knows we are to be married at the halfway stop, Molly. Then you'll change wagons
and will not need to drive."

"Wait till then."

"I count the hours. Don't you, dearest?"

She turned a pallid face to him at last, resentful of his endearments.

"Yes, I do," she said. But he did not know what she meant, or why she was so pale.

"I think we'll settle in Portland," he went on. "The travelers' stories say that place, at
the head of navigation on the Willamette, has as good a chance as Oregon City, at the Falls.
I'll practice law. The goods I am taking out will net us a good sum, I'm hoping. Oh, you'll
see the day when you'll not regret that I held you to your promise! I'm not playing this Oregon
game to lose it."

"Do you play any game to lose it?" Since that time lacked a time his protector, his wife, his young friend his relative, his
beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole Ever After that in the confusion had forgotten
to put in the hand of the dying candle soul, prepared so early for that same case.

The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying
who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other
went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier. He ran, in effect
for that short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay
Cecilia and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to
the known beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral. Being very close the house of Avocado Street
to receiving visitors who come to offer his condolences to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral,
provided Pepper's body was moved to the living room where he and his sister lived in Pump Street,
where body was present at ten o'clock at night until three pm the following day. No catafalque
was erected, dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black belt
of the Order of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter common
among large wax candles and silver candlesticks.

The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper,
watched over all night and when the litter burial led to shoulder,
taking turns in groups of four to The cemetery, located in the small
suburb of San Lazaro, the end of this road name.

The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will refer.
The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and
the shortest path not driving through the streets of the population,
but by winding paths, shaded luxurious trees from houses and gardens,
which then occupied the area throughout the vast area today Monserrate
titled.

Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession, seeking
to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long run.
After he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket
cloth, with two gold epaulets and cavalry saber.

He was young and brave gesture. No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his
weapon at the chest, cried: - Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you.

- Tonda! Tonda! cried the of the party who knew him by sight or treatment.

Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that
was the deceased had no choice but to surrender to the mercy of the
captor, who, without dismounting, he tied side by side threw him forward,
and saluting the military with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen,
I hope I waive the hard time.

He had command of His Excellency the Captain General, to catch this
rogue, living or dead, and I've met.

To follow the funeral. Health, gentlemen.

The first stop for the funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic House of
Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing one for the soul of the deceased,
by paying a gold coin, as alms.

The second stop was in front of the gate of the cemetery, under the graceful arch of input
to the chaplain hiciese coffin sprinkling holy water, before consigning the tomb. When running
this final act and always sad, companions in attitude reverently,
they remained standing and uncovered, forming groups around the pit.

José Dolores Pimienta, Uribe and some others threw a handful of earth on the coffin which was in
life and Alcon Josefa Alarcon, no less distinguished for her beauty
than for their Unfortunately, his ardent love of mother and religious
practices of his last years and the first who acted as chief mourner,
to thank his friends and fire, could not avoid to be a dry eye, perhaps
because he came to mind at that moment the box of his adored Cecilia,
transfixed in pain and fainting in the arms of Nemesia.

CHAPTER III

What is life? For lost I gave it, When the yoke Slave, As a brave shook.

J. DE ESPRONCEDA

In mid-January the field again Gamboa family: the
servants by sea, the masters by land.

     Leonardo arrived a few days
      later.
      
      The first thing
      Dona Rosa in the city was giving leave or paper to Mary Rule seek
accommodation or master.

         The role (and is called par excellence in Cuba) in question, signed
by Don Candido, prayed more or less as follows: "I give my slave role
María Regla so that within ten days of the accommodation or find love
in the city.

It Creole rational, intelligent and agile, healthy, robust, no disease has ever experienced,
has no blemish known, it knows plain sewing, washing and ironing
understand, care for children and the sick.

It paper gives because she asked. No more masters have known that he was born and which now
sold. Havana, etc. "

Released the subject, Dona Rosa judged of great importance, took care of runaway black. He blamed
all the fault of the event to Butler, which is why at the first opportunity went to his beard
with the ironic inquisition:

- I guess you have made many inquiries into the whereabouts of Dionysus.

-
Yes, my lady Dona Rosa, many, many steps, "he said pregnant, then
lied like a Turk.

Only these black ... we are the same dianche. Crouch know ... Go if you know!

- Let's see what has brought you to clean.

- Not much, my lady, almost nothing. It said he died of a stab, y. .. stop You count. Because
not having risen summary of the fact that I know of, or arrested the perpetrator, nor buried the
dead, I assumed, well-founded assumption seems to me that the stab
was mere rumor, a hoax, perhaps spread it to disorient Dionisio and
follow him around the track.

I tell you, my lady Dona Rosa, who know a lot of these black a lot
...

- I remain aware, "said the lady in her indignation.

Then he added: Then it must be displayed that black.

- Accurate, said Don Meliton.

- Dead or alive has to be somewhere, he said Dona Rosa.

- That I say, "said Butler.

- Nothing says you worthwhile, "said Rosa bothered.

How is it that has not occurred put a avisito in the Journal?

-
Well yes I have thought, Dona Rosa, said the man, happy to be vindicated.

It occurred to me more than once, many.

Yes, ma'am, I have been occurred.

- Then, why did not put on the ground?

- Then there is the difficulty of garlic, my lady Dona Rosa.

I do not know how to write these notices. I have never been fatter. Natural thing, in my town
had no newspapers.

- The easiest thing in the world. You Can not remember the address of Dionysus? Does your figure?
Does your packaging? Creole Black, dark rechocho, marked by smallpox, round face, large inflows,
large mouth, flat nose, good teeth, bulging eyes, short neck, aristocratic air, office cook, read,
be given for free, missing from the house of their masters after that date; there will be a good
reward to capture and deliver it in that part, being responsible to damages, etc., etc. All
as we read every day in the Journal under the heading or it's called,
of ... Runaway slaves.

- Ya, ya, I think it said all that, Dona Rosa.

Word is cute, but cójase pen and paper please ... Declare without shame, my lady, who gives
me card on the pretext of writing for newspapers. Sure, I was not born to hack, and not born
to married, the saying goes, do not fool women.

- Very little water drowns you, Don Meliton. Dare you to repeat what I just said?

- I think so. I lack talent, memory, spare me.

- Okay. But that does not forget, now you are going to print the Journal. It is on this street, past
the gates of Rosario, a hall house with two windows mirror, where before they played lottery tickets
... There. Enter you and look to Don Toribio Arazoza, editor. You can not go wrong: a man of
ordinary facade, pudgy, bearded ... Almost never shaved, always laughs with their lips, not to his
face ... You know what I mean.

Well, it tells you that as I said to Denis, he knows how to write ads on runaway slaves.

Just came Don Meliton, Rosa raised her eyes and clasped hands to heaven and cried: - Ah! What
a stupid Butler has my husband! By a miracle walking on two feet.

Around it the press, he sent the lady in a wheel of hire, road Cerro, to inquire whether he had
been led to the deposition of black Dionisio Maroons had established the Consulate of Agriculture
and Commerce of Havana and Isla de Cuba, next the elegant site playground for the Count of Fernandina.
There was not the fugitive, for the simple reason that they referred
only to the general deposit of those blacks rural farms, elevations
in the mountains, was caught living with dogs, and that ignorance
or malice, suddenly could not figure out the name of their rightful
owners.

As fruitless inquiries began to spread despair in the mind of Rosa,
where came to his house a black military dress with the utmost courtesy
to ask for a hearing a few minutes.

I measured it from top to bottom with a questioning look and said:

-
Tonda?

- Very humble servant of the lady, "he said in an arc of her
slender body.

- What is available?

Rosa would be asked.

- Is not the lady a warning about a black fled? ...

- Yes.

- What do you call the dark? excuse the lady ...

- Dionisio.

- Dionisio
Jaruco?

- No, Gamboa, he is my slave.

Well, as Jaruco Creole is not surprising that seeks go through that name.

- The same as I suspected. In court dance that gave black people out there the Two days before
Christmas Eve, I met a black that Jaruco Dionisio said. Your coordinates correspond closely with that
given in the Journal, and I think I will not be difficult to catch, if Mrs. I grant permission
to search.

- Would give two ounces of gold you capture, three, four, any money.

Committed a great need and desire to punish and deserves. I fear
resist.

He's handsome check.

- Do not be sorry for that lady. I'm going to bring moored alongside.

- My royalty is safe.

- I do not take the money, it takes me only that they who should pay that. I meet with the orders
of my boss, His Excellency Mr. Francisco Dionisio Vives, who, with the approval of His Majesty the
King, may God keep you many years, has commissioned me to turn to offenders of color.

Mary left early for home rule in the streets of San Ignacio, called the gate the best-looking,
he sent the paper to the lady, and sitting in the doorway, while resting came the response, invariably
reduced the housekeeper had many servants and did not need any rent. You had to denigrate people
of color from serving another person the master, that kind of idiosyncrasy Rule Mary had no
suspicion but not after many disappointments and deceptions similar to that just mentioned. Not
really entertained her intention or expectation of tenant or master,
both the highly repugnant, estimating either end as the greatest misfortune
that could ensue.

If it had been women able to show the face at first sight the emotions of the spirit, the more myopic
would have seen how red with embarrassment each time he drew the role of breast to give the
servant came to open the door.

His intention, hope, more vehement desire of his soul to seek the return to Havana Dionisio was
looking for to join him if he was alive, or killing if he had died. So, far from feeling it, experiencing
a sort of secret delight whenever the returned accompanied by a paper not dry and decisive. But
the time was that she had been granted on short, fixed, and had taken several days in vain
formalities, if fulfilled, and it showed landlord nor master, what would his wife, a woman of
character so strong and bitter with his slaves?

In these critical moments, his daughter Dolores revealed the substance of the conversation
that Mrs. Rosa had just had with Tonda, whose name and deeds went on everyone's lips, and
goad for fear of losing her beloved once Dionisio, decided to spend the few days the fatal period
of rest, the consequence of which was already the sole purpose of its existence.

Taking language, early one morning went to market in the Plaza Vieja,
one of two that existed within the walls of the city.

Was that a swarm of animals and so diverse, people of all colors and conditions, which prevailed black;
enclosure narrow tired, unkempt, damp and dark, circumscribed by four rows of houses, perhaps
the most affected population, all, or most, of two bodies, with broad low high-ceilinged portals,
which supported wooden balconies.

At the foot of one of the pillars of those relied Maria de Regla and spent a long time looking
in brooding silence and stirred the crowded market square. Everything was new for it. In the center stood
a stone fountain consists of a bowl and four dolphins intermittently discharging muddy water jets
and thick, however, anxious collected barrels black water carriers to sell the city at the rate
of average real silver one. Radios that were based center or trails, nothing straight by the
way, in several directions positions marked by pleasure, even with the floor, in appearance
without order or ranking no, because next to one that sold vegetables or vegetables, was another
of live birds, or fruit, or hunting, or edible roots, or cage birds, or vegetables, or river
fish and seafood, still in the basket or pot pot fisherman, or fresh meat served in ordinary tables
mounted on their heads in barrels or inserts scissors, and all breathing moisture strewn leaves,
peels of fruits and green corn, feathers and mud without a roof or
an awning, not a decent face, and black farmers, ill-clothed ones,
almost naked others whiffs of various scents everywhere, a shrill
and unpleasant gibberish, and above the blue sky seen through a skylight,
which appeared one or two Flying cloudscape, imitating, and transparent
gauze, sometimes invisible wings of angels.

They entered the square and out of her black and black, these with the purpose of providing Daily
house of their masters, to procure those with the wholesale price
of meat, vegetables or fruits that resold at retail within the city
or its neighborhoods outside: this traffic, by the way that, quite
lucrative in many cases.

There was something about the new dress Mary wore Prussian Rule, in the way of bringing the
silk handkerchief that was watching the morbid half of Bayajá shoulders and that was covered raisins;
in black shiny face and bare arms and turned, announcing health and strength, in the general appearance
of an outsider, in sadness or shyness that his face and attitude
showed, there was something, say, in all this, which could not fail
to attract attention, even indifferent people and very busy with her
own chores.

But all, any curious, compassionate or naturally any observer, and entering the square, and leaving
it, he cast a glance through the former nurse, and followed long. His attitude seems contemplative
(in any way his suit) was suspect at first view that the disease afflicted a stranger, or, being
too novice or short-tempered, not just reach out and ask for alms for the love of God to the
passer. Any of these reasons was enough to cool off compassion and curiosity in the classroom
of people coming to the market. Only a thick black, with a tendency to obesity, and of frank and cheerful
countenance, that came with a board full of meat to the head, had enough resolution to stop
before the wretched stranger, asking for a rough way, more benevolent
expression:

- Ah!

Critiana! What is there for? What have you lost?

- My husband replied flatly María de Regla.

The question unannounced not had time to hide what was more fixed
in thought.

- Your Mario! amazed said the butcher. "Must I think for you at this hour of my life? How near--oh, how near!
But not now--not this way! No! No!"

"What do you mean, Molly?" demanded her father sternly. "Come now, we'll have no woman tantrums
at this stage! This goes on! They're waiting! He's waiting!"

"Let him wait!" cried the girl in sudden resolution. All her soul was in the cry, all her outraged,
self-punished heart. Her philosophy fell from her swiftly at the crucial moment when she was
to face the kiss, the embrace of another man. The great inarticulate voice of her woman nature
suddenly sounded, imperative, terrifying, in her own ears--"Oh, Will Banion, Will Banion, why
did you take away my heart?" And now she had been on the point of doing this thing! An act
of God had intervened.

Jesse Wingate nodded to the minister. They drew apart. The holy man nodded assent, hurried
away--the girl sensed on what errand.

"No use!" she said. "I'll not!"

Stronger and stronger in her soul surged the yearning for the dominance of one man, not this
man yonder--a yearning too strong now for her to resist.

"But Molly, daughter," her mother's voice said to her, "girls has--girls does. And like he
said, it's the promise, it's the agreement they both make, with witnesses."

"Yes, of course," her father chimed in. "It's the consent in the contract when you stand before
them all."

"I'll not stand before them. I don't consent! There is no agreement!"

Suddenly the girl reached out and caught from her mother the pitiful little bride's bouquet.

"Look!" she laughed. "Look at these!"

One by one, rapidly, she tore out and flung down the folded gentian flowers.

"Closed, closed! When the night came, they closed! They couldn't! They couldn't! I'll not--I
can't!"

She had the hand's clasp of mountain blossoms stripped down to a few small flowers of varied
blooms. They heard the coming of the groom, half running. A silence fell over all the great
encampment. The girl's father made a half step forward, even as her mother sank down, cowering,
her hands at her face.

Then, without a word, with no plan or purpose, Molly Wingate turned, sprang away from them
and fled out into a night that was black indeed.

Truly she had but one thought, and that in negation only. Yonder came to claim her a man suddenly
odious to her senses. It could not be. His kiss, his arms--if these were of this present time
and place, then no place in all the world, even the world of savage blackness that lay about,
could be so bad as this. At the test her philosophy had forsaken her, reason now almost as
well, and sheer terrified flight remained her one reaction.

She was gone, a white ghost in her wedding gown, her little slippers stumbling over the stones,
her breath coming sobbingly as she ran. They followed her. Back of them, at the great fire
whose illumination deepened the shadows here, rose a murmur, a rising of curious people, a
pressing forward to the Wingate station. But of these none knew the truth, and it was curiosity
that now sought answer for the delay in the anticipated divertisement.

Molly Wingate ran for some moments, to some distance--she knew of neither. Then suddenly all
her ghastly nightmare of terror found climax in a world of demons. Voices of the damned rose
around her. There came a sudden shock, a blow. Before she could understand, before she could
determine the shadowy form that rose before her in the dark, she fell forward like the stricken
creature.

CHAPTER XXX

THE DANCE IN THE DESERT

There was no wedding that night at the Independence Rock. The Arapahoes saw to that. But there
were burials the day following, six of them--two women, a child, three men. The night attack
had caught the company wholly off guard, and the bright fire gave good illumination for shaft
and ball.

"Put out the fires! Corral! Corral!"

Voices of command arose. The wedding guests rushed for the shelter of their own wagons. Men
caught up their weapons and a steady fire at the unseen foe held the latter at bay after the
first attack.

Indeed, a sort of panic seized the savages. A warrior ran back exclaiming that he had seen
a spirit, all in white, not running away from the attack, but toward them as they lay in cover.
He had shot an arrow at the spirit, which then had vanished. It would be better to fall back
and take no more like chances.

For this reason the family of Molly Wingate, pursuing her closely as they could, found her
at last, lying face down in the grass, her arms outspread, her white wedding gown red with
blood. An arrow, its shaft cracked by her fall, was imbedded in her shoulder, driven deep by
the savage bowman who had fired in fear at an object he did not recognize. So they found her,
still alive, still unmutilated, still no prisoner. They carried the girl back to her mother,
who reached out her arms and laid her child down behind the barricaded wagon wheels.

"Bring me a candle, you!" she called to the nearest man. It chanced to be Sam Woodhull.

Soon a woman came with a light.

"Go away now!" the mother commanded the disappointed man.

He passed into the dark. The old woman opened the bodice over the girl's heart, stripped away
the stained lace that had served in three weddings on two sides of the Appalachians, and so
got to the wound.

"It's in to the bone," she said. "It won't come out. Get me my scissors out of my bag. It's
hanging right 'side the seat, our wagon."

"Ain't there no doctor?" she demanded, her own heart weakening now. But none could tell. A
few women grouped around her.

"It won't come out of that little hole it went in," said stout Molly Wingate, not quite sobbing.
"I got to cut it wider."

Silence held them as she finished the shreds of the ashen shaft and pressed to one side the
stub of it. So with what tools she knew best she cut into the fabric of her own weaving, out
of her own blood and bone; cut mayhap in steady snippings at her own heart, pulling and wrenching
until the flesh, now growing purple, was raised above the girl's white breast. Both arms, in
their white sleeves, lay on the trodden grass motionless, and had not shock and strain left
the victim unconscious the pain must now have done so.

The sinew wrappings held the strap-iron head, wetted as they now were with blood. The sighing
surgeon caught the base of the arrowhead in thumb and finger. There was no stanching of the
blood. She wrenched it free at last, and the blood gushed from a jagged hole which would have
meant death in any other air or in any patient but the vital young.

Now they disrobed the bride that was no bride, even as the rifle fire died away in the darkness.
Women brought frontier drafts of herbs held sovereign, and laid her upon the couch that was
not to have been hers alone.

She opened her eyes, moaning, held out her arms to her mother, not to any husband; and her
mother, bloody, unnerved, weeping, caught her to her bosom.

"My lamb! My little lamb! Oh, dear me! Oh, dear me!"

The wailing of others for their dead arose. The camp dogs kept up a continual barking, but
there was no other sound. The guards now lay out in the dark. A figure came creeping toward
the bridal tent.

"Is she alive? May I come in? Speak to me, Molly!"

"Go on away, Sam!" answered the voice of the older woman. "You can't come in."

"But is she alive? Tell me!" His voice was at the door which he could not pass.

"Yes, more's the pity!" he heard the same voice say.

But from the girl who should then have been his, to have and to hold, he heard no sound at
all, nor could he know her frightened gaze into her mother's face, her tight clutch on her
mother's hand.

This was no place for delay. They made graves for the dead, pallets for the wounded. At sunrise
the train moved on, grim, grave, dignified and silent in its very suffering. There was no time
for reprisal or revenge. The one idea as to safety was to move forward in hope of shaking off
pursuit.

But all that morning and all that day the mounted Arapahoes harassed them. At many bends of
the Sweetwater they paused and made sorties; but the savages fell back, later to close in,
sometimes under cover so near that their tauntings could be heard.

Wingate, Woodhull, Price, Hall, Kelsey stationed themselves along the line of flankers, and
as the country became flatter and more open they had better control of the pursuers, so that
by nightfall the latter began to fall back.

The end of the second day of forced marching found them at the Three Crossings of the Sweetwater,
deep in a cheerless alkaline desert, and on one of the most depressing reaches of the entire
journey. That night such gloom fell on their council as had not yet been known.

"The Watkins boy died to-day," said Hall, joining his colleagues at the guarded fire. "His
leg was black where it was broke. They're going to bury him just ahead, in the trail. It's
not best to leave headboards here."

Wingate had fallen into a sort of apathy. For a time Woodhull did not speak to him after he
also came in.

"How is she, Mr. Wingate?" he asked at last. "She'll live?"

"I don't know," replied the other. "Fever. No one can tell. We found a doctor in one of the
Iowa wagons. He don't know."

Woodhull sat silent for a time, exclaimed at last, "But she will--she must! This shames me!
We'll be married yet."

"Better wait to see if she lives or dies," said Jesse Wingate succinctly.

"I know what I wish," said Caleb Price at last as he stared moodily at the coals, "and I know
it mighty well--I wish the other wagons were up. Yes, and--"

He did not finish. A nod or so was all the answer he got. A general apprehension held them all.

"If Bridger hadn't gone on ahead, damn him!" exclaimed Kelsey at last.

"Or if Carson hadn't refused to come along, instead of going on east," assented Hall. "What
made him so keen?"

Kelsey spoke morosely.

"Said he had papers to get through. Maybe Kit Carson'll sometime carry news of our being wiped
out somewhere."

"Or if we had Bill Jackson to trail for us," ventured the first speaker again. "If we could
send back word--"

"We can't, so what's the use?" interrupted Price. "We were all together, and had our chance--once."

But buried as they were in their gloomy doubts, regrets, fears, they got through that night
and the next in safety. They dared not hunt, though the buffalo and antelope were in swarms,
and though they knew they now were near the western limit of the buffalo range. They urged
on, mile after mile. The sick and the wounded must endure as they might.

Finally they topped the gentle incline which marked the heights of land between the Sweetwater
and the tributaries of the Green, and knew they had reached the South Pass, called halfway
to Oregon. There was no timber here. The pass itself was no winding cañon, but only a flat,
broad valley. Bolder views they had seen, but none of greater interest.

Now they would set foot on Oregon, passing from one great series of waterways to another and
even vaster, leading down to the western sea--the unknown South Sea marked as the limits of
their possessions by the gallants of King Charles when, generations earlier, and careless of
all these intervening generations of toil and danger, they had paused at the summit of Rockfish
Gap in the Appalachians and waved a gay hand each toward the unknown continent that lay they
knew not how far to the westward.

But these, now arrived halfway of half that continent, made no merriment in their turn. Their
wounded and their sick were with them. The blazing sun tried them sore. Before them also lay
they knew not what.

And now, coming in from the northeast in a vast braided tracing of travois poles and trampling
hoofs, lay a trail which fear told them was that of yet another war party waiting for the white-topped
wagons. It led on across the Pass. It could not be more than two days old.

"It's the Crows!" exclaimed Sam Woodhull, studying the broad trail. "They've got their women
and children with them."

"We have ours with us," said Caleb Price simply.

Every man who heard him looked back at the lines of gaunt cattle, at the dust-stained canvas
coverings that housed their families. They were far afield from home or safety.

"Call Wingate. Let's decide what to do," exclaimed Price again. "We'll have to vote."

They voted to go on, fault of any better plan. Some said Bridger's post was not far ahead.
A general impatience, fretful, querulous, manifested itself. Ignorant, many of these wanted
to hurry on to Oregon, which for most meant the Williamette Valley, in touch with the sea,
marked as the usual end of the great trek. Few knew that they now stood on the soil of the
Oregon country. The maps and journals of Molly Wingate were no more forthcoming, for Molly
Wingate no more taught the evening school, but lay delirious under the hothouse canvas cover
that intensified the rays of the blazing sun. It was life or death, but by now life-and-death
issue had become no unusual experience.

It was August, midsummer, and only half the journey done. The heat was blinding, blistering.
For days now, in the dry sage country, from the ford of the North Fork of the Platte, along
the Sweetwater and down the Sandy, the white alkali dust had sifted in and over everything.
Lips cracked open, hands and arms either were raw or black with tan. The wagons were ready
to drop apart. A dull silence had fallen on the people; but fatuously following the great Indian
trail they made camp at last at the ford of the Green River, the third day's march down the
Pacific Slope. No three days of all the slow trail had been harder to endure than these.

"Play for them, Jed," counseled Caleb Price, when that hardy youth, leaving his shrunken herd,
came in for his lunch that day at the ford.

"Yes, but keep that fiddle in the shade, Jed, or the sun certainly will pop it open."

Jed's mother, her apron full of broken bits of sagebrush, turned to see that her admonishment
was heeded before she began her midday coffee fire. As for Jed himself, with a wide grin he
crouched down at the side of the wagon and leaned against a wheel as he struck up a lively
air, roaring joyously to his accompaniment:

  Git out o' the way, old Dan Tucker,
  You're too late to git yore supper!

Unmindful of the sullen apathy of men and women, the wailing of children stifling under the
wagon tops, the moans of the sick and wounded in their ghastly discomfort, Jed sang with his
cracked lips as he swung from one jig to the next, the voice of the violin reaching all the
wagons of the shortened train.

"Choose yore pardners!" rang his voice in the joyous jesting of youth. And--marvel and miracle--then
and there, those lean brown folk did take up the jest, and laughingly gathered on the sun-seared
sands. They formed sets and danced--danced a dance of the indomitable, at high noon, the heat
blinding, the sand hot under feet not all of which were shod. Molly Wingate, herself fifty
and full-bodied, cast down her firewood, caught up her skirt with either hand and made good
an old-time jig to the tune of the violin and the roaring accompaniment of many voices and
of patted hands. She paused at length, dropping her calico from between her fingers, and hastened
to a certain wagon side as she wiped her face with her apron.

"Didn't you hear it, Molly?" she demanded, parting the curtain and looking in.

"Yes, I did. I wanted--I almost wanted to join. Mother, I almost wanted to hope again. Am I
to live? Where are we now?"

"By a right pretty river, child, and eena'most to Oregon. Come, kiss your mother, Molly. Let's
try."

Whereupon, having issued her orders and set everyone to work at something after her practical
fashion, the first lady of the train went frizzling her shaved buffalo meat with milk in the
frying pan; grumbling that milk now was almost at the vanishing point, and that now they wouldn't
see another buffalo; but always getting forward with her meal. This she at last amiably announced.

"Well, come an' git it, people, or I'll throw it to the dogs."

Flat on the sand, on blankets or odds and ends of hide, the emigrants sat and ate, with the
thermometer--had they had one--perhaps a hundred and ten in the sun. The men were silent for
the most part, with now and then a word about the ford, which they thought it would be wise
to make at once, before the river perchance might rise, and while it still would not swim the
cattle.

"We can't wait for anyone, not even the Crows," said Wingate, rising and ending the mealtime
talk. "Let's get across."

Methodically they began the blocking up of the wagon bodies to the measurement established
by a wet pole.

"Thank the Lord," said Wingate, "they'll just clear now if the bottom is hard all the way."

One by one the teams were urged into the ticklish crossing. The line of wagons was almost all
at the farther side when all at once the rear guard came back, spurring.

"Corral! Corral!" he called.

He plunged into the stream as the last driver urged his wagon up the bank. A rapid dust cloud
was approaching down the valley.

"Indians!" called out a dozen voices. "Corral, men! For God's sake, quick--corral!"

They had not much time or means to make defense, but with training now become second nature
they circled and threw the dusty caravan into the wonted barricade, tongue to tail gate. The
oxen could not all be driven within, the loose stock was scattered, the horses were not on
picket lines at that time of day; but driving what stock they could, the boy herders came in
at a run when they saw the wagons parking. When we said goodbye in the hallway The
question that was due that and was evasive. In this came out of his room Tirso and, as one is
aware of what you hear try, I said :--«¿ to insist? Can not you see that not read indecency?
"

- What you say?

- For your brother and your home!

Shut up and leave, but, I confess, I wanted to put him a volume by
the snout.

The least has figured the man who took the girl books wrong gender!

- What an ass!

- Not the best. It was the first time Leo and I parted well, slightly less than bothered, and
I could not wait to return on Monday. Do you remember that afternoon was the pretext test and
was talking to her?

- Go on: what did he say?

- Man, there are things that can not be explained point by point.

You understand the difference you there to be a loving woman, who
exudes the satisfaction of being loved, to be cold, aloof, and who
does not care less about the man next to him.

- As one of two things:
either you're wrong, and there is nothing that suspicion, or is Tirso
guilt, and in this case, no doubt in my house is going to be more
civil war in the North.

- Much I fear, and about what we were talking,
I think Leo is no longer for me.

- Come with care.

Do you have any trouble, some wheeling and dealing that she has known
for angry?

- No: word of honor.

- Well, since I put the record straight.

-
I warn you one thing.

I did not think the matter further formalize ... for lack of rooms; but since things have
been filmed, stating that your father and you can consider me, if you like, and the house,
you know? - and tended to Pepe's hand, he warmly shook .-- Since you know, as is customary titles: I
beg the hand ...

- I promise we will leave doubts.

- What are you doing?

- Soon I
will be able, or clearing the situation.

In the first conversation you have with Tirso I remove the mask. We'll see who has the upper
hand!

Next step quickened, spreading to reach street near the keypad, where fired, leaving some hopeful
Millán offered intervention. Pepe entered its house on tiptoe, slowly opened, not to awaken
the sleepers, lit the candle Leocadia left to prevent a wing of the hall, he entered his room
and lay down, thinking about events and ideas that interested him, on suspicion that he felt for
his brother in the affection that had his parents and feared complications. Then, serenely mind,
he remembered the worsening peace and imagined note in his love. What would be the cause?
Why the girl raised in the present, far from convinced that this was crazy gave his promises more
strength and greater expression of sympathy from his eyes?

XVI

Tirso seeing the mother tended to his exhortations, not only insisted on them, but tried to
conquer the minds of Leocadia, sharpen it necessary to be so cunning, as the difference in character
between Dona Manuela and her daughter asked for different tactics. The first ceded by kindness and gentleness:
it was habit bend to the will of others. As a young man due to her husband erected after chief
Pepe family by force of circumstances, got used to looking at him as such, and was home giblets
those of her daughter, showing all be born to obey. Leocadia conditions were different: he
had headstrong genius, but without lacking respect, responding to their parents with integrity; in
their whims poor girl, had always a certain obstinacy, if he persisted in reform a suit, did not stop
to turn the pieces of fabric, to achieve what he wanted; liking styling, could not find peace
until her hands got to learn how to make him, and even in these small details, the tenacity
of its resolutions, betrayed a very firm deploying energy difficult to master. Tirso also noted
that, in spite of its humble situation, the girl was rather vain and was paid him, charging
different Still, the eagerness to please, and as a latent desire, but self-indulgent, to imitate
clothing and customs of girls more favored by fortune. Never consented to, for example, to make
his brother blouses to work in print, and was constantly at the next corner store with tissue in
the head, Pepe wanted to see the best dress possible, and in their costumes own, still struggling
with lack of money for frills and frippery, always tried to imitate elegant cuts. By not having
them gold, had no outstanding ears and fingers without rings. It was not demanding too expensive
to ask what the efforts of their parents, but only accepted poverty as an accident of his life,
not as a condition of their origin. Willingly admitted Miller's love, while this year with Pepe's
career, but seeing her boyfriend had to leave the books and engage in a trade, was for her
very great disappointment. To continue his brother in college, perhaps soon had sought to break
relations with the printer, but seeing Pepe forced to do the same soon after, realized Leocadia
why could not reject Millán, and continued to accept his love, without correspondence that actually
paid it deserved the name of love. Perhaps for lack of background, no Tirso was in a position to appreciate
all this, but enough to convince reached that neither Leocadia was truly in love, and cast off
by the shameless Miller greed language called a proportion, which allowed him to imagine that
if the mother ceded by docility, vanity and self-esteem would be good ways to subdue daughter. I would
rather he take pity in their hearts with the vehemence of zeal inflamed him, but he realized that
he was forced to follow the maximum bend to the nature and character of every sinner, to become
more likely. Finally, many days talking to Dona Manuela, determined to probe to Leocadia, and
finding it an evening reading in the dining room, while Don José rested and mother was out,
approached, bringing him another book in hand.

- Know God - the said between severe and smiling - what tome that will be! Is it that brings you
the groom?

- Yes.

- Lovely role for a young man attempting readings harmful to the woman he wants, and good way
to love ... if you love!

- Why do you say that?

- Calm down, child, calm down, no I mean, God forbid! that young do
not wish, what strikes me is that you love him.

- I think what I
want!

- It seems in bad kind, but what happens to your brother must
be plagadito of ideas now, and of those who do not believe in the
light of day.

Ready, it will be, too bad office has so ugly!

- The of his father ... He began studying to be a lawyer, but then
the same thing happened to Pepe.

The word office rang in the ears of Tirso Leocadia as planned.

- You will always be stuck between ordinary people, workers and laborers, then they tune your ...
but bad work is.

- But can you imagine that Millan is a porter or serene? - "She said,
laughing forcedly .-- I wrong: it's a decent guy, like Pepe, who has
to live well, working as Pepe.

- No, daughter, and Pepe, no, our
brother is the son of a public official, the father of that young,
if I heard correctly, was a compositor, a laborer.

- Printer.

-
Call it what you want.

Being old, was the owner of the printing press, but its origin can
not be more humble.

That does not mean it is bad person, but, finally, why do you dislike we covet for you the best?

Leocadia
looked at his brother, surprised that and worry about their future.

- What I tell you - continued the priest - is that, so young, and
collecting terms Women are key to healthy prosperity, should not a
formal commitment lower man to you, because I do not deny it.

Position has perhaps better off than ours, but one thing is the welfare, and another area
of ​​each. Today, we have money, but not our parents or our grandparents were artisans. Believe
me, Leocadia do not commit yourself to anyone, and not give up your freedom of action. No you're
born to women a laborer.

- Dale with journeyman! is an industry, we, a printer, but not a laborer.

- Bah! my dear: let us call things by their names.

Worker is only worker and if you marry him, God knows you have to go some day to take the food
basket as a bricklayer.

- So, according to you, I expect you to come and ask for my hand a degree of Castile.

- Not at all: it seems that even a good guy, is not justified to give
up on it's what you reserve for the future.

Nobody knows what the future for a girl.

Tired Leocadia knew that after that problematic hope of future greatness, which Tirso real impetus
was the antipathy felt against Millan, since he met in politics and lack of religion coincided with
Pepe, but as these same arguments He claimed to be the ever own, succeed in putting pressure
on the heart. It seemed undeniable Millán goodness, but Tirso was partly right. The touch with
the people in the press had given his harsh frankness tinge, sometimes bordering on rudeness, his
feelings served honored coarse language interpreter, to see something neat and composed, it
was necessary wait till Sunday: have not walked Tirso misguided and, in time, she had to bring
in the food basket, resigned to be a craftswoman, ie the opposite
type that of the girls, whose manners and clothes tried to imitate.

At different times her sister did Tirso similar reasoning, and as the ground was well prepared, the
seed began to germinate. It started the turn, the first thing he was to prevent often Millán
visits during the week, based on borrowing books: then came the scene narrated by the lover
scorned Pepe, which intervened Tirso and finally, the girl so strongly stressed his indifference,
the bridegroom almost stopped deserve this name. To be the love of deep-rooted passion Millán, had
been striving to regain what they lost, but he also beat a fund and exaggerated self-esteem,
that was of greater account of the pride that the baby .-- "Do not
talk about this to your sister - had told his friend - because the
will is not imposed or received anything for charity.

"

That was a very bad impression Pepe, but even more displeased to see the intervention demonstrated
the cure. The thing was out of doubt: after trying to seize the spirit of the mother, began to explore
various means of a daughter for the same purpose. What would their ulterior motives? Reasons of
personal convenience, apparently none. The only plausible that work was driven not only by religious
proselytizing, and in this case, to commit company in the peace and happiness of the family,
their fanaticism would be great. How risk, in any other way, promoting a rift between parents
and children, venturing the tranquility of home and the poor health of Don Jose, for only the lack
of compliance by the pious duties? Pepe hated it so much, given his ideas that he could not
be attributed to his brother so great blindness, assuming that if only the zeal prompted him, had
moderate affects more mundane but no less pure. His understanding rejected the possibility that
there man to embarrass their parents to give luster to the religion. The nonchalance with which
Millán Leocadia and began to look lost with this significance in the eyes of Pepe: Her True
concern was the conduct of Tirso, and came to dislike so much that
I threw his beloved Peace to see immediately.

       

* * * * *

First, a romantic spirit, typical of free-educated girl, she becomes infatuated to Peace with the
love of Pepe: later, when he came to understand how much he was worth, that tilt insensibly deepened
and, at the beginning was game of the imagination, came to be, the more natural, simple, sincere
and well-rooted love. The clerk, as she imagined her friends would call him if they should know, he had
entered the soul, persuading that he wanted because his face began to fear that his father would
know that, despite Democratic Posturing I used to do in Parliament. But this was not what most
distress. Their concern stemmed from disgruntled continually see Pepe, and the conviction of
being in love came out of that relationship he established his mind between the pity she felt
and concern he showed. When peace was made aware that, even ignoring the cause, despite saddened
by her boyfriend, when, unable weighed, felt a pain of others as their own, then noticed that
his heart began to reign a will different from his, and the man, only with loyalty and good faith,
was taking over his will slowly but probably as large river channel deepens the underpinning.
Peace, apparently frivolous, like anyone who has not suffered, but very clever, was persuaded
early on that loved, because his thoughts, far from intimidated to the obstacles that could
love cause it was fixed exclusively on the pain of the man he wanted.

The first sample true passion was the sincerity with which he spoke.

One morning, being in the library of his father, who was where whenever
he saw one missing from there, "said Pepe, mild language and using
its free, then more open than ever:

- I have to tell you something
very serious.

- What?

- I made a discovery: you do not want me and
I love you more than me contained.

- I do not understand.

- Clarito,
son, that your love - will use this word, for greater solemnity, but
you know that I prefer to say love - well, your love is much warmer
than mine.

- Let's see how it is shown that great lie.

- In a very
simple way.

I always pass that you are bored with being rich and you me poor,
of course, that does not offend me, pass the mania of celite, which
makes no sense common choke pass without coming three to four days
in a row, so you want to wait more ...

- No, for fear that your father
guess what happens.

- Let me finish, what is not happening, is that
you have trouble, you're sorry and I streets.

So silly me, that no good to say not a word of comfort?

- What does this tenderness, my soul, with the discovery?

- Because
nothing can be more visible.

You, suffering and ocultándomelo, reveal a lack great confidence, which is lack of love, and I,
aquejerándome, as they say in Andalusia for your book, I show love a thousand times.

- But where did you get that I have trouble?

- That I was missing, add the pretense of a lack of confidence. Will
not you tell me what's wrong?

Pepe, who preferred to talk only about their love, or had proposed
internal streets of home, said denying, and ended by telling Peace:

-
If you think it is mere curiosity, it displays the lips, but stating:
stay free to find out.

- Find out what pleases you, but love me a
lot.

The entrance of Don Luis cut dialogue. Proposed peace knowing what to expect regarding the
origin of the sadness of Pepe, and when a woman in love with a similar
resolution, the secret can be overdraft.

Pepe's obstinacy in silence was useless: Peace has so hard to know
the troubles of her lover, as this step by step in the incomprehensible
handling of the priest.

XVII

When Pepe kept going to see peace, for fear or look tacky if suspected
Don Luis, came Pateta in mail functions: she knew that every third
day of absence the boy was about to darken around the hotel and, peering
right time, got arm through the gate and left the letter under the
raised brick kiln, located along the greenhouse.

One afternoon, Don Luis had to attend a political banquet, Peace, after seeing him from and
after going on various pretexts to the servants, fell into the garden at twilight, and waited
to Pateta. Quarter hour saw the boy coming stealthily approaching the gate, kicking a tin pot he found
nearby, so she hid after one of the pillars of masonry that were
in the corners of the greenhouse and, when boy went to put my hand
through the bars of the gate, came out of hiding, saying

- Hey, pathetic.

-
Beware you will not see this letter.

- Nobody.

Pateta, hat in hand, snuggling his face to the bars, like a monkey cage, paid attention.

The remoteness of the site and dreary afternoon, were to reign around the full hôtel loneliness.
In the air floated the last rays of sun set, and the arid countryside
appeared wrapped in a fearful clarity, while the opposite was extending
a broad dark band, which expands slowly across the sky.

The suit was a stain Peace clear cut by the bars of the gate: pathetic ogling Miss no guess what
he would say.

- Well, at this hour, this being so lonely - he suddenly - and Mr. Pepe could come here and
talk to you.

- Shut up and listen.

I want to talk now, it's you.

- Send you

- Can you do me a favor?

The truth, and without anyone knowing.

- Neither Mr. Pepe?

- Less
than anyone else.

The boy glanced could not be more expressive. Was realized that maybe peace wrong, but it was not going
back.

- I warn you that this is something we are very interested in him and me.

- No more to say.

But this submission was accompanied by the firm intention to tell
everything to Pepe.

- Let's see what happens?

What is the one with disgust? You know something?

- Nothing, not Jack.

- We need to find out.

I fear that you remove the destination you have in your library Senate, and would be prevented
to stop the coup.

Do you know whether that is the reason that For many days are so sad?

You really can not tell me anything?

Pateta fell into the net.

- Yo, that's destiny, I do not know ná:
ask.

Otherwise, you may not know what had happen. In the press everything is as usual ... As it is
not the cure ...

- How about printing?

Printing What is this?

- Takes! What could it be?

Ours, that is, Mr. Miller.

- So the Master is also working on printing?

- As it is the first Corretor and give deciocho materials, and that
which goes no further than the nights.

Did not you know you?

Paz, fearful that Pateta flake, he said, lying:

- Yeah, man, do not
I know?

But I thought labor was carried home.

- Who, no ma'am! TAR do it there.

- And that the priest, what is?

- His brother, are you? is cured and has come about two months ago, and as a cure and very carca,
they are Golven Tarumba, and brings the house upside down, Quie to go to Mass, to pray more
a blind man, in short, that bridge will not hold ... nor I either.

- Why?

- To me it has got the very messy.

Pasao Sunday I had to go to work part day, because there was a hurry,
and then Mr. Pepe yevé home tests, and as was Sunday, and I, though
I say it is wrong, I'm battalion bugler volunteers Freedom in my neighborhood,
I was in uniform, PA does not have to walk the path twice.

The priest was at the door, wanted to let him test and, as I did not know him and had orders to
see the same man Pepe, are you? I felt like it. Look you, Miss, was made a beast, and what I
got angry was that I laughed at the uniform, I called bullshit, and said I would study the
doctrine. I, the truth, and still did not know who was the brother of Mr. Pepe ... Come on, I sent
my taste: I called cockroach, carca, too so I was happened.

- You say that revolt brother brings the family?

- You bet!

If not for fear of giving grief to a old man, and had Don Pepe Mita Creek Plant. Imagine you,
miss, that one of the things that have rabies Mr. Pepe harm has been
done to fight ... You will see: Miss Leocadia spoken with Mr. Miller,
my love, come on, they were married, as they say, and the cure has
got tares and has desapartao.

Of course, that would not be very encariñaos, because they had not
fought well ... so easily, right?

- But your love and Master Pepe
have not fought.

- Who!

Can not you see that the two are convinced that the fault is the cure? The mother Tié foolish
by dint of prayers ... You know Mr. Pepe where you are coming!

- Yes that is cause for disappointment!

- Other than that - continued Pateta - has always been in good humor even when he had to leave
the race, that soon came into the press ... and as if ná: he, in
working, and is happy.

You do not know yeva life: he here with you dad, he in the press,
he on the destination that ice you who take it.

Pa is a fierce work, and how much you earn, your house.

No spends more than snuff and it gives me some realejo possesses
me.

- Well, goodbye, go, lest we see - Peace said, handing in his
hand is a tiny two dollars.

Pateta, without detachment from the gate, said smiling, and intonation
very Achille:

- Who!

- Do not be a child, take it!

- Who, no, miss,
if I do what I do for Mr. Pepe, but I do not give you or So not even
a guy!

Peace was the coin in hand, more embarrassed than the lad.

- Do me a ugly?

- That no: and PAs see you, give me that rose that has you pinned
to his chest, then I I give to my girlfriend: You will have many like
that, and those not sold on the street.

Peace, moved by a sense of feminine delicacy, ran to the stove, cut
two magnificent roses, and gave the boy, as well as wearing garments,
said:

- These two, the highest, for your girlfriend this one small,
which I wore for Pepe: Do you understand?

"So you have a girlfriend?

- Well, what do you, Miss, I am to stick?
Understood: the largest pa mi chiquiya and the other Pá Mr. Pepe.

-
Bye, and what we talked about earlier, not a word ... chitito.

-
Current: God is with you, miss, and thanks. You've been a soldier,
and we haven't had much of that."

"There are fifteen hundred or two thousand of them," said Woodhull slowly--"a hundred and fifty
of us that can fight. Ten to one, and they mean no quarter."

"But what shall we do?"

"What can we but lie close and hold the wagons?"

"And wait?"

"Yes."

"Which means only the Missouri men!"

"There's no one else. We don't know that they're alive. We don't know that they will come."

"But one thing I do know"--his dark face gathered in a scowl--"if he doesn't come it will not
be because he was not asked! That fellow carried a letter from Molly to him. I know that. Well,
what do you-all think of me? What's my standing in all this? If I've not been shamed and humiliated,
how can a man be? And what am I to expect?"

"If we get through, if Molly lives, you mean?"

"Yes. I don't quit what I want. I'll never give her up. You give me leave to try again? Things
may change. She may consider the wrong she's done me, an honest man. It's his hanging around
all the time, keeping in her mind. And now we've sent for him--and so has she!"

They walked apart, Wingate to his wagon.

"How is she?" he asked of his wife, nodding to Molly's wagon.

"Better some ways, but low," replied his stout helpmate, herself haggard, dark circles of fatigue
about her eyes. "She won't eat, even with the fever down. If we was back home where we could
get things! Jess, what made us start for Oregon?"

"What made us leave Kentucky for Indiana, and Indiana for Illinois? I don't know. God help us now!"

"It's bad, Jesse."

"Yes, it's bad." Suddenly he took his wife's face in his hands and kissed her quietly. "Kiss
Little Molly for me," he said. "I wish--I wish--"

"I wish them other wagons'd come," said Molly Wingate. "Then we'd see!"

CHAPTER XXXII

THE FIGHT AT THE FORD

Jackson, wounded and weary as he was, drove his crippled horse so hard all the night through
that by dawn he had covered almost fifty miles, and was in sight of the long line of wagons,
crawling like a serpent down the slopes west of the South Pass, a cloud of bitter alkali dust
hanging like a blanket over them. No part of the way had been more cheerless than this gray,
bare expanse of more than a hundred miles, and none offered less invitation for a bivouac.
But now both man and horse were well-nigh spent.

Knowing that he would be reached within an hour or so at best, Jackson used the last energies
of his horse in riding back and forth at right angles across the trail, the Plains sign of
"Come to me!" He hoped it would be seen. He flung himself down across the road, in the dust,
his bridle tied to his wrist. His horse, now nearly gone, lay down beside him, nor ever rose
again. And here, in the time a gallop could bring them up, Banion and three of his men found
them, one dead, the other little better.

"Bill! Bill!"

The voice of Banion was anxious as he lightly shook the shoulder of the prone man, half afraid
that he, too, had died. Stupid in sleep, the scout sprang up, rifle in hand.

"Who's thar?"

"Hold, Bill! Friends! Easy now!"

The old man pulled together, rubbed his eyes.

"I must of went to sleep agin," said he. "My horse--pshaw now, pore critter, do-ee look now!"

In rapid words he now told his errand. They could see the train accelerating its speed. Jackson
felt in the bag at his belt and handed Banion the folded paper. He opened the folds steadily,
read the words again and again.

"'Come to us,'" is what it says. He spoke to Jackson.

"Ye're a damned liar, Will," remarked Jackson.

"I'll read it all!" said Banion suddenly.

"'Will Banion, come to me, or it may be too late. There never was any wedding. I am the most
wicked and most unhappy woman in the world. You owe me nothing! But come! M.W.'

"That's what it says. Now you know. Tell me--you heard of no wedding back at Independence Rock?
They said nothing? He and she--"

"Ef they was ever any weddin' hit was a damned pore sort, an' she says thar wasn't none. She'd
orto know."

"Can you ride, Jackson?"

"Span in six fast mules for a supply wagon, such as kin gallop. I'll sleep in that a hour or
so. Git yore men started, Will. We may be too late. It's nigh fifty mile to the ford o' the Green."

It came near to mutiny when Banion ordered a third of his men to stay back with the ox teams
and the families. Fifty were mounted and ready in five minutes. They were followed by two fast
wagons. In one of these rolled Bill Jackson, unconscious of the roughness of the way.

On the Sandy, twenty miles from the ford, they wakened him.

"Now tell me how it lies," said Banion. "How's the country?"

Jackson drew a sketch on the sand.

"They'll surround, an' they'll cut off the water."

"Can we ford above and come in behind them?"

"We mout. Send half straight to the ford an' half come in behind, through the willers, huh?
That'd put 'em atween three fires. Ef we driv' 'em on the wagons they'd get hell thar, an'
ef they broke, the wagons could chase 'em inter us again. I allow we'd give 'em hell. Hit's
the Crows I'm most a-skeered of. The Bannacks--ef that's who they was--'ll run easy."

At sunset of that day the emigrants, now half mad of thirst, and half ready to despair of succor
or success, heard the Indian drums sound and the shrilling of the eagle-bone whistles. The
Crows were chanting again. Whoops arose along the river bank.

"My God! they're coming!" called out a voice.

There was a stir of uneasiness along the line, an ominous thing. And then the savage hosts
broke from their cover, more than a thousand men, ready to take some loss in their hope that
the whites were now more helpless. In other circumstances it must have been a stirring spectacle
for any who had seen it. To these, cowering in the sand, it brought terror.

But before the three ranks of the Crows had cleared the cover the last line began to yell,
to whip, to break away. Scattering but continuous rifle fire followed them, war cries arose,
not from savages, but white men. A line of riders emerged, coming straight through to the second
rank of the Crow advance. Then the beleaguered knew that the Missourians were up.

"Banion, by God!" said a voice which few stopped to recognize as Woodhull's.

He held his fire, his rifle resting so long through the wagon wheel that Caleb Price in one
swift motion caught it away from him.

"No harm, friend," said he, "but you'll not need this just now!"

His cold eye looked straight into that of the intending murderer.

The men in the wagon park rose to their work again. The hidden Bannacks began to break away
from their lodgment under the river bank. The sound of hoofs and of shouts came down the trail.
The other wing of the Missourians flung off and cleared the ford before they undertook to cross,
their slow, irregular, deadly rifle fire doing its work among the hidden Bannacks until they
broke and ran for their horses in the cottonwoods below. This brought them partly into view,
and the rifles of the emigrants on that side bore on them till they broke in sheer terror and
fled in a scattered sauve qui peut.

The Crows swerved under the enfilading fire of the men who now crossed the ford. Caught between
three fires, and meeting for their first time the use of the revolver, then new to them, they
lost heart and once more left their dead, breaking away into a mad flight west and north which
did not end till they had forded the upper tributaries of the Green and Snake, and found their
way back west of the Tetons to their own country far east and north of the Two-go-tee crossing
of the Wind River Mountains; whence for many a year they did not emerge again to battle with
the white nation on the Medicine Road. At one time there were forty Crow squaws, young and
old, with gashed breasts and self-amputated fingers, given in mourning over the unreturning brave.

What many men had not been able to do of their own resources, less than a fourth their number
now had done. Side by side Banion, Jackson, a half dozen others, rode up to the wagon gap,
now opened. They were met by a surge of the rescued. Women, girls threw themselves upon them,
kissing them, embracing them hysterically. Where had been gloom, now was rejoicing, laughter,
tears.

The leaders of the emigrants came up to Banion and his men, Wingate in advance. Banion still
sat his great black horse, coldly regarding them. Moreover, the stork had the instinct not to bore, and conferences
always ended quickly and in a sharp, darting suddenly in the air, tracing graceful spirals
in the serene flight of the day out of sight.

He spent the spring, spent the summer, came after the fall, as always, and finally began to appear
in winter. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no doubt
the dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where
the author dwelt verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. Why was there not to do so by style prudent
and decent that did not commit?

Poldy also thought that although it was not unlikely that by operation of the jinn or Fairy or
under mahaturas science, the author of the verses have been achieved clear vision of it, would never
be more than enough to send a good picture of her in photography. In our times does not mean
this very decided favor. Any subject, the most plebeian of fatal, could be bought for a florin Poldy
portrait, exhibited in the windows of many Shops in Vienna, among the beauties of the court
and the theater, including princesses, actresses and dancers. If any ragamuffin Poldy compatriot
could have its image, what audacity or impropriety which would have
to send it through to the wading birds poet incognito I could not
but be a prince, nawab, Brahmin or Kshatriya, back in the land of
Rama and Sita, Nal and Damayanti?

Given these considerations and others in the same order, which are omitted here to avoid prolixity,
Poldy, wrote a long letter, very thin paper to bulge slightly, took a picture yours, without
board, on which picture was very pretty in her low-cut and elegant suit dance, included it
in an envelope with strong backing fabric closed and sealed with wax; wrote above: the unknown
Indian poet, pierced with a punch the card, ran a strong the tape
through the hole, and thus prepared everything, hung it around his
neck as if the stork was the insignia of Commander of any illustrious
Order.

The stork was very still, waiting for Poldy properly secure your neck tape no breaks and that the
letter did not fall.

And just realized that was well decorated, gave a tremendous leap, took flight, soared into
the air and flew with such verve as if the long and steadily India
branch.

Let her go in peace, while we, who are all the secrets, come
on to copy here what I had written Poldy, which was as follows: All knew that time
alone must work out the answer to this implacable quarrel, and that the friends of the two
men could not possibly train up together.

After all, when in sheer courtesy the leaders of the Wingate train came over to the Missouri
camp on the following day there came nearer to being a good understanding than there ever had
been since the first break. It was agreed that all the wagons should go on together as far
as Fort Bridger, and that beyond that point the train should split into two or perhaps three
bodies--a third if enough Woodhull adherents could be found to make him up a train. First place,
second and third were to be cast by lot. They all talked soberly, fairly, with the dignity
of men used to good standing among men. These matters concluded, and it having been agreed
that all should lie by for another day, they resolved the meeting into one of better fellowship.

Old Bill Jackson, lying against his blanket roll, fell into reminiscence.

"Times past," said he, "the Green River Rendyvous was helt right in here. I've seed this place
spotted with tepees--hull valley full o' Company men an' free trappers an' pack-train people--time
o' Ashley an' Sublette an' my Uncle Jackson an' all them traders. That was right here on the
Green. Ever'body drunk an' happy, like I ain't now. Mounting men togged out, new leggin's an'
moccasins their womern had made, warriors painted up a inch o' their lives, an' women with
brass wire an' calico all they wanted--maybe two-three thousand people in the Rendyvous. 

The revenge, then that takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is a bargain
when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances of the sort.

Until that happens after I finished the novel seem even less thought, and written depriesa more
than the rest. It is a pity, because perhaps the best scenes are at last of the work. Eulalia cynicism
proudly admits his lack moving to punish Ignacio brutally in a fit of anger, leads to a scene well
designed although rough naturalism which further highlights the issue
of environment, the elegant mise en scène in which it occurs.

Finally, could you give many solutions to this mess it seems to me that you give less natural
and believable. If Ignacio not crazy, do you consider that its so easy woman posing as such
and keep you locked in a madhouse? But suppose the above closure feasible. Ignacio you missed
the last limit of extravagance and does not make us fear is really crazy when making the determination
to stay forever in Fools and spend his life there without trying to prove who is sane? Frankly,
I distrust Ignatius was completely crazy but why we hide it no more you and declares, justifying
the good doctor and not by comparing poorly with Pilate, and Pilate is simply wash their hands
and the doctor was soiled hands and conscience with a horrible lie?
"Don't you cry fer me--I'm going through to Oregon, with my banjo on my knee!"

Fair as a garden to the sun-seared eyes of the emigrants seemed the mountain post, Fort Bridger,
when its rude stockade separated itself from the distortions of the desert mirage, whose citadels
of silence, painted temples fronted with colossal columns, giant sphinxes, vast caryatids,
lofty arches, fretwork façades, fantastically splendid castles and palaces now resolved themselves
into groups of squat pole structures and a rude stock corral.

The site of the post itself could not better have been chosen. Here the flattened and dividing
waters of the Black's Fork, icy cold and fresh from the Uintah Mountains to the southward,
supported a substantial growth of trees, green now and wonderfully refreshing to desert-weary eyes.

"The families are coming!"

Bridger's clerk, Chardon, raised the new cry of the trading post.

"Broke an' hungry, I'll bet!" swore old Jim Bridger in his beard.

But he retired into his tepee and issued orders to his Shoshone squaw, who was young and pretty.
Her name, as he once had said, was Dang Yore Eyes--and she was very proud of it. Philosophical
withal, though smarting under recent blows of her white lord, she now none the less went out
and erected once more in front of the tepee the token Bridger had kicked down--the tufted lance,
the hair-fringed bull-neck shield, the sacred medicine bundle which had stood in front of Jeem's
tepee in the Rendezvous on Horse Creek, what time he had won her in a game of hands. Whereupon
the older squaw, not young, pretty or jealous, abused him in Ute and went out after wood. Her
name was Blast Your Hide, and she also was very proud of her white name. Whereafter both Dang
Yore Eyes and Blast Yore Hide, female, and hence knowing the moods of man, wisely hid out for
a while. They knew when Jeem had the long talk with the sick white squaw, who was young, but
probably needed bitter bark of the cottonwood to cure her fever.

Painted Utes and Shoshones stood about, no more silent than the few local mountaineers, bearded,
beaded and fringed, who still after some mysterious fashion clung to the old life at the post.
Against the newcomers, profitable as they were, still existed the ancient antipathy of the
resident for the nonresident.

"My land sakes alive!" commented stoical Molly Wingate after they had made some inquiries into
the costs of staples here. "This store ain't no place to trade. They want fifty dollars a sack
for flour--what do you think of that? We got it for two dollars back home. And sugar a dollar
a tin cup, and just plain salt two bits a pound, and them to guess at the pound. Do they think
we're Indians, or what?"

"It's the tenth day of August, and a thousand miles ahead," commented Caleb Price. "And we're
beyond the buffalo now."

"And Sis is in trouble," added Jed Wingate. "The light wagon's got one hind spindle half in
two, and I've spliced the hind ex for the last time."

Jackson advanced an idea.

"At Fort Hall," he said, "I've seed 'em cut a wagon in two an' make a two-wheel cart out'n
hit. They're easier to git through mountains that way."

"Now listen to that, Jesse!" Mrs. Wingate commented. "It's getting down to less and less every
day. But I'm going to take my bureau through, and my wheat, and my rose plants, if I have to
put wheels on my bureau."

The men determined to saw down three wagons of the train which now seemed doubtful of survival
as quadrupeds, and a general rearrangement of cargoes was agreed. Now they must jettison burden
of every dispensable sort. Some of the sore-necked oxen were to be thrown into the loose herd
and their places taken for a time by cows no longer offering milk.

A new soberness began to sit on all. The wide reaches of desert with which they here were in
touch appalled their hearts more than anything they yet had met. The grassy valley of the Platte,
where the great fourfold tracks of the trail cut through a waving sea of green belly deep to
the oxen, had seemed easy and inviting, and since then hardship had at least been spiced with
novelty and change. Don Tadeo it took a lot of love: that
yes! There would have been treated better if only his son. The only thing I felt bad, was it
of cure him, but I could not help. If only he were a priest or as Torrero Muñoz Venegas and
Martin Velasco ...

- Calle you, by God, Don José.

Cures "liberal? They are the worst!

Pepe, Leocadia and her mother were silent, feeling there was talk of that, because Don Jose such
cases, just getting in a mood of all the devils, but Miller, who from time back had a desire
to know the history of the case, was gradually forcing the old to
the count.

- This gift would be delivered Tadeo people from church
...

- Cabalito: it was a terrific subject, but those who eat the
saints, and spun the business with great finesse.

Tirso took a liking to, that's undeniable.

I think the first thing that occurred to him was to give race, without looking at what, to make
man, then his ideas, his relationships ... When I moved from Granada to Zamora, made the trip with
the boy just so I could see; already had twelve years that I thanked him very much, because
he had seen only two escapes cortísimas we did that and I from Valladolid. We wanted to pick up
the boy then, Zamora, but on the one hand, and understand the considerations of how much we had to
don Thaddeus ... he insisted that he was not take off, said Tirso was so good that he had taken
so much love ... In addition, our situation was not good, that is, never has been, We could
never save anything. Now, if it were not for retirement, I do not know how we would live. In
order to conclude, when we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already
put in the seminar. What do we do? Although I had more energy than a lion ... then: Stand it!
Anyone Arrisca to fight with people from church! ...

Coming here was silent, fearful that it was the language.

- But he had a vocation?

Pepe, who had long since showed signs of impatience, could not hold
back and broke it by saying between mocking and angry:

- Vocation!

Vocation! Who knows what that is? May feel tired of living man and thinking, but a boy of
sixteen years, as was Tirso then, when he entered the seminary, Understand how to devote to God? It
was a real shame, deception, robbery, kidnapping mayorem ad Dei gloriam!

- Yes - said Millán - like when you put the Jesuit family where girl with money and soon cátatela
nun.

- Exactly the same, boy. But it must be fair. In this case there was a noticeable difference
in favor of Mr. Thaddeus, who was a fan exageradísimo, and yet a very good man. He should certainly
take care of my brother for the father to pay for one of the causes which we've already had,
then their ideas, their friends from church, the influence exerted on him his cronies, his horror
at the boy to learn what is learned on the books against the rascals, not wanting to send,
with his godson, a center realistic learning where the province would not send their children, all
contributed sin. There was in him, at first, evil intent: Don Tadeo thought to action meritorious,
almost a charity. Did not notice a child who stole his parents, his purpose was a desire to serve
God.

- Let a man made calamity.

Doña Manuela silent because even disliking the way your child was expressed, understood that he
was right: Leocadia, accustomed to similar scenes, hardly heard, for have all heard that ad nauseam.
Also, what absorbed his attention, for the moment walking was not ready for the cogiese Millan
among his foot under the table, excesillo apologized for the love of the bridegroom and favored
by the classic couch with her long underskirt of green baize playing
fell to the ground.

Don Jose was making signs with his head Pepe assent as he spoke.

- You're right about everything, my son, Don Tadeo wanted to do well and we screwed up. Because,
Indeed, who is from the Church, only her. There are days when I do not think I have such a
son.

Doña Manuela, without being pious, as the creatures take the world did not leave time for it,
professed some respect and unconscious inexplicable things and sacred persons, on However, since
his eldest son became a priest, began to have a shadow of worship
as indeterminate and vague to the priestly class, so, how often attended
such talks, he spent a hard time.

Their lack of enlightenment and religious feeling low, they could
not pay arms to fight, but it still hurt Tirso clergyman, and having
so many people around the world consideration save them, his other
son as they looked with disfavor.

- How old are you now? - Said Millán.

-
Check the account: of the three children we have left, is the largest,
was born in 38, has now thirty-four, then going it (by Pepe), who
is twenty, and that (for Leocadia) who will be nineteen soon.

- If
you have lived the other, would be seven, and all I have grown up
- with some added proud mother - least Tirso.

Now, for the first time, we will live together.

- I wish to live in peace! - Pepe said.

- Hail-Mary Immaculate!

What things has this brother that God has given me!

- I mean, I do not care who you know.

I have fear of coming Tirso, the desire and fear.

Don José silent sadly, that did not like, but since he knew the next
arrival Madrid with his eldest son, had fought for the same soul that
stirred misgivings Pepe, and listening to him, he thought to himself
heard.

- For our part - continued Pepe - no one is to disturb this
harmony.

Here, you've seen since we know, Millán, my parents live for this and for me, us to them. These
furniture that are older than me, have never heard a dispute not the slightest disrespect. Leocadia
and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy.

Do you know why? Because we have not separated ever, and we slept one night without kissing, or
had a pain that is not the other, neither silent nor joy, nor has anyone eaten a bun without saving
the other, or a suit made without thinking about how many clothes were each one, in a word, boy,
our ideas, in my conviction, my parents and the latter by goodness, I have linked all the love,
treasuring day by day and hour by hour, unmixed selfishness, without sharing it with anyone
... (A Don José is moistened the eyes of taste.) Y now come Tirso, educated away from us, become
a man ... and we welcome them with open arms. For my part, I can not wait: a few more care
will be playing Dad more of us at home. But ... God knows!

- No buts about it, it seems that you have left something inside the body, it is so brother
yours like this that I have kidded myself to everyone.

- You do not understand what I meant, Mom.

For us all the joys of earth are within these walls, we can, or try to give them to us each
other.

When it comes Tirso you will hear in different ways, and see in it any aspiration, any idea which
transcends the affection that we have.

- Wow, that was it! ideas now, hush, child, hush.

- At the time,
mother, at a time.

Dinner had ended. The immediate street noises were gradually ceasing; perceived more clear the distant
chime of a church, which announced the Midnight Mass, the children oil cans still happening
from time to time by Imperial Street, and other floors of the house rose, with uneven intervals,
songs, carols, laughter, screams and a cat that was meowing all night without eating smelling
bream.

- Remove the table - "Dona Manuela, and began to save for Don José
what little was left the perry and nougat.

- Do you want that you
go to bed between that and me? - Miller asked the patient to give
.-- Van twelve in suspense will take for you to bed.

As before Dona Manuela made and Leocadia, Pepe and Miller were pushing the chair from the dining
room cabinet in which he slept Don José; Leocadia folding the cloth fell and napkins. A moment
later, Jose was dismissed from the inside telling the Millán, he was back out to the dining
room

- If there is news, see tomorrow, eh? and bring me a newspaper, which
is the only distraction I have.

- Rest assured you, not fail.

Goodbye, Dona Manuela, who pass you good night, and today in one year. Goodbye, Leo. Who will
you please go down to open up?

The girl, who was sleeping in the kitchen, accompanied Millán.

When you open the door up Street, were the two brothers sitting in
the dining room next to Dona Manuela.

- Let's wait for Dad to sleep
- said Leocadia - lest we hear.

Spend some time left, Leocadia unbraided thinning hair meanwhile her mother, gathering with
a pair of forks, and then did the same with her long brown curls.

Pepe lit a cigarette and looked at the lamp, as having to use it
until late, then have no missing oil.

- Much writing, brother.

-
Yo, when I want someone I'm not like you, if you just Millán.

Well, look: their intentions can not be clearer. Tonight I have said that they lowered your
soon to open up when they imagined that he was coming, but, well, there you are. I think you're
not very expressive with it.

- Funny! You want me to eat it with their eyes? Not to be a stamp!

- Do not think you want to get you the groom from his eyes.

What I say is that although you lived a hundred years, would not
find a better one.

- Is it Prince?

- Yes, as you princess.

- Well,
son, you rather make love to a lady's car.

In this cabinet appeared to Dona Manuela.

- Children, already half asleep, we will talk soon four words, I'm
exhausted and I also sleep.

- Look, Mom, what is that talking is
little, but there is no other means to decide something.

The pharmacy takes a lot of money, you need to spend less on everything else. I'll make a work
for Don Luis, who fixed pay me well, but what it should not occur have until next month.

- Well, the first thing is to fire the girl, but not more than thirty
real, it's something.

Tomorrow will take it to pawn the quilt candeleritos Philippines and silver.

- What you should do is to remove part of daily spending - said Leo .-- Do not bring meat rather
than dad, and tell you to eat in your room to move less, then we come into the room, and so does
not know.

- I, with three packs a week I have enough.

In addition, Don Luis I get some cigars and to keep chopping. Would you have said something
at the store?

- Yes - said Leocadia - per dozen handkerchiefs pay, according to the drawing, twenty-four Thirty-six
reals, and I have to put whatever it takes.

- In summary - Pepe said crunching numbers with a pencil on the margins of correspondence,
and muttering mumble calculation figures - we pay hard twenty-seven
Dad, ten and eight of my salary is forty-five, and eight or ten be
given to it by the embroidery ... of fifty-three to fifty-four dollars
a month, removing the twenty, at least, that there to give the market
over the time, and the lack of tailor peak, will be about thirty four
dollars ... put a hard day for the cost of the house ... the pharmacy
is the one we lost.

- Well, son, that somewhere out there, and fourth
is wasted ... What would we do?

- Now, lie down, each in his own bed.

Leave me to myself, I think that Don Luis has to draw from trouble.

At least I have to ask a favor ... in short, who knows? Goodbye Mom and you, ugly cute face,
until tomorrow .-- And giving a kiss to each, gently threw the room. Took then the limelight
was in the kitchen, went with her to her room, returned with about a large binder ink, pens, paper,
envelopes and three or four books, and placing the best he could, sat at the table.

Until near dawn was taking notes of several books, writing in the
pages very cortitos paragraphs, as extracts, numbers followed by references
and citations.

That seemed paper prepared for that exploited other. As the clock near the stroke of three, the poor
boy's head was already heavy, uncertain view and a beautiful bust, sloping even to the table,
appeared in a cloud of smoke that had been left in the atmosphere Cigarette consumed the room,
whose ash, moved by the breath, hovered over the leaves of books. Still continued to fill pages
for a while, until the stiff Burning feet and forehead, gathered up the papers and put them
in one volume. Immediately took a plieguecillo for a letter, leaving a pensive moment as she
thought, "The write, if not see you tomorrow. "Then, to find the envelopes, and have between
them a larger and heavier, opened it, taking from him two or three letters and a portrait of women,
Mademoiselle de creased Leocadia car, and staring a moment, murmured: "How beautiful is! "Then,
without any noise distracted him, delivered with soul and life to your ideas, plieguecillo seized
and began to write:

Adoro Paz :...»

II

Pepe and Miller met in 1862, when at fourteen or fifteen years were enrolled in the Institute Novitiate
first Latin.

They were both then of little physical, but smart, handsome, ready without excess of mischief,
and without plenty of malice warned. In his feeble body servants Madrid poor homes, the prevailing
understanding of children educated alongside older people, without watching anything, speak
of all free. Pepe was thin, tall, lanky, with hair blond, curly and swirling, who claim to be
an indication of temper. Looking penetrating his eyes seemed to look at things, want to start
teaching them that springs; he was never tired of questions mouth or ears of responses: rather,
impatience showing bartered to interrogate you to listen quietly. Since childhood, unbelief instinctively
rejoice him less than other children with tales of witches, and being grown man, was always on our lips
how? and why? Like children who break toys to see what they have inside, he, following perhaps
a bit vulgar disposition, intended to be given explanation for everything, so, to deny what you
asked, it was necessary, at least simulate an argument, to convince, which was quiet and obedient.
His precocity was not the one consists in the early development of some faculties, but trial
in certain serenity that dominates over impressions, led him to reject what your understanding
is not enough. We had to explain everything, and he understood signal was a charming docility.
Never got a maid with giants amused that swallow raw meat, feats of thieves or enchanted princesses
wonderful adventures; but if you listened to his parents real events, vivid cases, something
that had true then with your eyes wide open, as they teach puppy treat, was still waiting
that the relationship ended, then to questions and more questions about what could not understand.
With a very mocking smile rejected what was repugnant to their childish ideas and Sometimes the
phrase that occurred to him, if not for the purpose, something had by intonation satire.

Miller was more simpleton, smaller, had less difficulty to deceive, and it was also given more
strength and Arriscado games.

The sap of life, as the former had reconcentrated in the brain, had taken in the second form
of physical energy. One was the race of those who think, another race of those who obey. Watching
them play together Pepe was willful, it seemed Miller bend to their whims, but to little are
observed, it was easy to notice that the passivity of this was but the implicit recognition
instinctive superiority of the former. In addition, Miller was very good nature and, as he pleases
it, revealed that, in matters of force was the advantage of you, in everything else Pepe was the lead.
In making wooden swords, cutting boards, run the hammer, jump to step, climb fences and walls to climb,
no competitor was Millán: to make awards condone pranks and avoid scolding, Pepe had special talent.
He knew to wait to ask time, let the first moments of anger, not to irritate the annoyance with
answers and evoke a favorable opportunity, the memory of the offering.

The beginnings of his friendship was a kind of pact against Latin and against this mode to teach
the language of Latium that was abhorrent to Virgil and Cicero.

Formed a mutual aid society to join the lesson, save work to translate, looking together the
meanings in the dictionary and responding, the roll call one by another, until came to gather
together the collection of postage stamps which by then was all boy Madrid. At first only saw
in the classroom or on the faculty of the Institute, which has Street entrance of the Kings,
then found their way to come home, and we walked together, expecting another in the plaza of Santo
Domingo, where he arrived almost at the same time. Millan lived on the square of the Screen;
Pepe on the streets of Buttons: Costanilla that came by the Angels; it down the street from
the scallops, then followed together to the Novitiate, stopping in as many windows had something
they called attention. Winter mornings bought donuts, summer evenings groundnuts, and all-weather
wimp, roe, or carob candies to farthing, but his delight was in sharing a pack of cigarettes, but
never arrived to fight over who spent quarter or so. During the first year kept the boys look
a little cramped raised among skirts and clean language, made no freedom to walk alone down
the street; but soon were opening ears to the malice and having ready for the shameless tongue: mischievousness
entróseles thought as infused knowledge, learned to swear, pegóseles some of that impudence
that is given step, and increase your vocabulary with phrases Achilles turns foul language and
whose meaning may not understand, imagine repeating such things that talking about fat men would
hint of panties. Not for this malearon, and those obscenities and suits that used to each other, but to
anyone they repeated, was like a mud that if I messed up the mouth, did not arrive to stain
the soul.

One morning she missed her class with a professor, went to other guys to play Mico was, and this loophole
was to them a revelation. From then on, when calculated that they could ask the lesson, went
to class, but most of the day, then passing list, slipped, or gum
pricking and staining the tissue, they pretended take bleed from nose
to let them out, denying the decline and hyperbaton Latin and for
older men who invented slander.

Dates from this period in history of his life long series of raids they did in Madrid, and
avoiding going through streets downtown where they could be hand to mouth at home who gave notice
of meeting. So they came to know every inch of few walks, roads and surrounding hills the Court,
leaving a foot you want for these rounds, as gentlemen marching Legend to see land and then had
to be home when Miller's father, and the Pepe's mother noticed that the boys broke shoes as if
they were to stubbornness. The famous Marco Polo in the old, and Livingstone and Stanley these
days, browsers were next to them of more or less. What greater issue to go from the novice to
the Iron Gate stopping at the Green Bridge to call them all! All! the washers of the river?
Why, and the trip to Amaniel Moratalaz or do the exercise for the troops? What about going
to ecstasy to the positions of San Isidro, on the eve of pilgrimage, or go in winter to see
if had frozen the Canal del Lozoya? What never occurred to them was taking sides in stoning
of the Peñuelas, see executed in Camp Guard or deal with the waffle that, game tape and stole money
from the provincials in the Principe Pio Mountains. In contrast, I enjoyed very much to see in the palace
stop or to stand on Santa Cruz listening to quacks rant from the driver's seat of a cab selling
lion to remove grease spots or saying powders having to kill the lone inset stomach, which is
the intestine where gets the food.
 But Bridger came to him, a hand
on his knee.

"I hate to see ye go, Bill."

"Shore!" said Jackson. "I hate to go. Take keer yerself, Jim."

The two Indian women had uncovered their faces and gone inside the lodge. But old Jim Bridger
sat down, back against a cottonwood, and watched the lopping figure of his friend jog slowly
out into the desert. He himself was singing now, chanting monotonously an old Indian refrain
that lingered in his soul from the days of the last Rendezvous.

At length he arose, and animated by a sudden thought sought out his tepee once more. Dang Yore
Eyes greeted him with shy smiles of pride.

"Heap shoot, Jeem!" said she. "No kill-um. Why?"

She was decked now in her finest, ready to use all her blandishments on her lord and master.
Her cheeks were painted red, her wrists were heavy with copper. On a thong at her neck hung
a piece of yellow stone which she had bored through with an awl, or rather with three or four
awls, after much labor, that very day.

Bridger picked up the ornament between thumb and finger. He said no word, but his fingers spoke.

"Other pieces. Where?"

"White man. Gone--out there." She answered in the same fashion.

"How, cola!" she spoke aloud. "Him say, 'How, cola,' me." She smiled with much pride over her
conquest, and showed two silver dollars. "Swap!"

In silence Bridger went into the tepee and pulled the door flaps.

CHAPTER XXXV

GEE--WHOA--HAW!

Midsummer in the desert. The road now, but for the shifting of the sands, would have been marked
by the bodies of dead cattle, in death scarcely more bone and parchment than for days they
had been while alive. The horned toad, the cactus, the rattlesnake long since had replaced
the prairie dogs of the grassy floor of the eastern Plains. A scourge of great black crickets
appeared, crackling loathsomely under the wheels. Sagebrush and sand took the place of trees
and grass as they left the river valley and crossed a succession of ridges or plateaus. At
last they reached vast black basaltic masses and lava fields, proof of former subterranean
fires which seemingly had forever dried out the life of the earth's surface. The very vastness
of the views might have had charm but for the tempering feeling of awe, of doubt, of fear.

They had followed the trail over the immemorial tribal crossings over heights of land lying
between the heads of streams. From the Green River, which finds the great cañons of the Colorado,
they came into the vast horseshoe valley of the Bear, almost circumventing the Great Salt Lake,
but unable to forsake it at last. West and south now rose bold mountains around whose northern
extremity the river had felt its way, and back of these lay fold on fold of lofty ridges, now
softened by the distances. Of all the splendid landscapes of the Oregon Trail, this one had
few rivals. But they must leave this and cross to yet another though less inviting vast river
valley of the series which led them across the continent.

Out of the many wagons which Jesse Wingate originally had captained, now not one hundred remained
in his detachment when it took the sagebrush plateaus below the great Snake River. They still
were back of the Missouri train, no doubt several days, but no message left on a cleft stick
at camp cheered them or enlightened them. And now still another defection had cut down the train.

Woodhull, moody and irascible, feverish and excited by turns, ever since leaving Bridger had
held secret conclaves with a few of his adherents, the nature of which he did not disclose.
There was no great surprise and no extreme regret when, within safe reach of Fort Hall, he
had announced his intention of going on ahead with a dozen wagons. He went without obtaining
any private interview with Molly Wingate.

These matters none the less had their depressing effect. Few illusions remained to any of them
now, and no romance. Yet they went on--ten miles, fifteen sometimes, though rarely twenty miles
a day. Women fell asleep, babes in arms, jostling on the wagon seats; men almost slept as they
walked, ox whip in hand; the cattle slept as they stumbled on, tongues dry and lolling. All
the earth seemed strange, unreal. They advanced as though in a dream through some inferno of
a crazed imagination.

About them now often rose the wavering images of the mirage, offering water, trees, wide landscapes;
beckoning in such desert deceits as they often now had seen. One day as the brazen sun mocked
them from its zenith they saw that they were not alone on the trail.

"Look, mother!" exclaimed Molly Wingate--she now rode with her mother on the seat of the family
wagon, Jed driving her cart when not on the cow column. "See! There's a caravan!"

Her cry was echoed or anticipated by scores of voices of others who had seen the same thing.
They pointed west and south.

Surely there was a caravan--a phantom caravan! Far off, gigantic, looming and lowering again,
it paralleled the advance of their own train, which in numbers it seemed to equal. Slowly,
steadily, irresistibly, awesomely, it kept pace with them, sending no sign to them, mockingly
indifferent to them--mockingly so, indeed; for when the leaders of the Wingate wagons paused
the riders of the ghostly train paused also, biding their time with no action to indicate their
intent. When the advance was resumed the uncanny pari passu again went on, the rival caravan
going forward as fast, no faster than those who regarded it in a fascinated interest that began
to become fear. Yonder caravan could bode no good. Without doubt it planned an ambush farther
on, and this sinister indifference meant only its certainty of success.

Or were there, then, other races of men out here in this unknown world of heat and sand? Was
this a treasure train of old Spanish cargadores? Did ghosts live and move as men? If not, what
caravan was this, moving alone, far from the beaten trail? What purpose had it here?

"Look, mother!"

The girl's voice rose eagerly again, but this time with a laugh in it. And her assurance passed
down the line, others laughing in relief at the solution.

"It's ourselves!" said Molly. "It's the Fata Morgana--but how marvelous! Who could believe it?"

Indeed, the mirage had taken that rare and extraordinary form. The mirage of their own caravan,
rising, was reflected, mirrored, by some freak of the desert sun and air, upon the fine sand
blown in the air at a distance from the train. It was, indeed, themselves they saw, not knowing
it, in a vast primordial mirror of the desert gods. Nor did the discovery of the truth lessen
the feeling of discomfort, of apprehension. The laughter was at best uneasy until at last a
turn in the trail, a shift in the wizardry of the heat waves, broke up the ghostly caravan
and sent it, figure by figure, vehicle by vehicle, into the unknown whence it had come.

"This country!" exclaimed Molly Wingate's mother. "It scares me! If Oregon's like this--"

"It isn't, mother. It is rich and green, with rains. There are great trees, many mountains,
beautiful rivers where we are going, and there are fields of grain. There are--why, there are
homes!"

The sudden pathos of her voice drew her mother's frowning gaze.

"There, there, child!" said she. "Don't you mind. We'll always have a home for you, your paw
and me."

The girl shook her head.

"I sometimes think I'd better teach school and live alone."

"And leave your parents?"

"How can I look my father in the face every day, knowing what he feels about me? Just now he
accuses me of ruining Sam Woodhull's life--driving him away, out of the train. But what could
I do? Marry him, after all? I can't--I can't! I'm glad he's gone, but I don't know why he went."

"In my belief you haven't heard or seen the last of Sam Woodhull yet," mused her mother. "Sometimes
a man gets sort of peeved--wants to marry a girl that jilts him more'n if she hadn't. And you
certainly jilted him at the church door, if there'd been any church there. It was an awful
thing, Molly. I don't know as I see how Sam stood it long as he did."

"Haven't I paid for it, mother?"

"Why, yes, one way of speaking. But that ain't the way men are going to call theirselves paid.
Until he's married, a man's powerful set on having a woman. If he don't, he thinks he ain't
paid, it don't scarcely make no difference what the woman does. No, I don't reckon he'll forget.
About Will Banion--"

"Don't let's mention him, mother. I'm trying to forget him."

"Yes? Where do you reckon he is now--how far ahead?"

"I don't know. I can't guess."

The color on her cheek caught her mother's gaze.

"Gee-whoa-haw! Git along Buck and Star!" commanded the buxom dame to the swaying ox team that
now followed the road with no real need of guidance. They took up the heat and burden of the
desert.

CHAPTER XXXVI

TWO LOVE LETTERS

"The families are coming--again the families!" It was again the cry of the passing fur post,
looking eastward at the caravan of the west-bound plows; much the same here at old Fort Hall,
on the Snake River, as it was at Laramie on the North Platte, or Bridger on the waters tributary
to the Green.

The company clerks who looked out over the sandy plain saw miles away a dust cloud which meant
but one thing. In time they saw the Wingate train come on, slowly, steadily, and deploy for
encampment a mile away. The dusty wagons, their double covers stained, mildewed, torn, were
scattered where each found the grass good. Then they saw scores of the emigrants, women as
well as men, hastening into the post.

It was now past midsummer, around the middle of the month of August, and the Wingate wagons
had covered some twelve hundred and eighty miles since the start at mid-May of the last spring--more
than three months of continuous travel; a trek before which the passage over the Appalachians,
two generations earlier, wholly pales.

What did they need, here at Fort Hall, on the Snake, third and last settlement of the two thousand
miles of toil and danger and exhaustion? They needed everything. But one question first was
asked by these travel-sick home-loving people: What was the news?

News? How could there be news when almost a year would elapse before Fort Hall would know that
on that very day--in that very month of August, 1848--Oregon was declared a territory of the Union?

News? How could there be news, when these men could not know for much more than a year that,
as they outspanned here in the sage, Abraham Lincoln had just declined the governorship of
the new territory of Oregon? Why? He did not know. Why had these men come here? They did not know.

But news--the news! The families must have the news. And here--always there was news! Just
beyond branched off the trail to California. Here the supply trains from the Columbia brought
news from the Oregon settlements. News? How slow it was, when it took a letter more than two
years to go one way from edge to edge of the American continent!

They told what news they knew--the news of the Mormons of 1847 and 1848; the latest mutterings
over fugitive negro slaves; the growing feeling that the South would one day follow the teachings
of secession. They heard in payment the full news of the Whitman massacre in Oregon that winter;
they gave back in turn their own news of the battles with the Sioux and the Crows; the news
of the new Army posts then moving west into the Plains to clear them for the whites. News?
Why, yes, large news enough, and on either hand, so the trade was fair.

But these matters of the outside world were not the only ones of interest, whether to the post
traders or the newly arrived emigrants. Had others preceded them? How many? When? Why, yes,
a week earlier fifty wagons of one train, Missouri men, led by a man on a great black horse
and an old man, a hunter. Banion? Yes, that was the name, and the scout was Jackson--Bill Jackson,
an old-time free trapper. Well, these two had split off for California, with six good pack
mules, loaded light. The rest of the wagons had gone on to the Snake. But why these two had
bought the last shovels and the only pick in all the supplies at old Fort Hall no man could
tell. Crazy, of course; for who could pause to work on the trail with pick or shovel, with
winter coming on at the Sierra crossing?

But not crazier than the other band who had come in three days ago, also ahead of the main
train. Woodhull? Yes, that was the name--Woodhull. He had twelve or fifteen wagons with him,
and had bought supplies for California, though they all had started for Oregon. Well, they
soon would know more about the Mary's River and the Humboldt Desert. Plenty of bones, there, sure!

But even so, a third of the trains, these past five years, had split off at the Raft River
and given up hope of Oregon. California was much better--easier to reach and better when you
got there. The road to Oregon was horrible. The crossings of the Snake, especially the first
crossing, to the north bank, was a gamble with death for the whole train. And beyond that,
to the Blue Mountains, the trail was no trail at all. Few ever would get through, no one knew
how many had perished. Three years ago Joe Meek had tried to find a better trail west of the
Blues. All lost, so the story said. Why go to Oregon? Nothing there when you got there. California,
now, had been settled and proved a hundred years and more. Every year men came this far east
to wait at Fort Hall for the emigrant trains and to persuade them to go to California, not
to Oregon.

But what seemed strange to the men at the trading post was the fact that Banion had not stopped
or asked a question. He appeared to have made up his mind long earlier, and beyond asking for
shovels he had wanted nothing. The same way with Woodhull. He had come in fast and gone out
fast, headed for the Raft River trail to California, the very next morning. Why? Usually men
stopped here at Fort Hall, rested, traded, got new stock, wanted to know about the trail ahead.
Both Banion and Woodhull struck Fort Hall with their minds already made up. They did not talk.
Was there any new word about the California trail, down at Bridger? Had a new route over the
Humboldt Basin been found, or something of that sort? How could that be? If so, it must be
rough and needing work in places, else why the need for so many shovels?

But maybe the emigrants themselves knew about these singular matters, or would when they had
read their letters. Yes, of course, the Missouri movers had left a lot of letters, some for
their folks back East next year maybe, but some for people in the train. Banion, Woodhull--had
they left any word? Why, yes, both of them. The trader smiled. One each. To the same person,
yes. Well, lucky girl! But that black horse now--the Nez Percés would give a hundred ponies
for him. But he wouldn't trade. A sour young man. But Woodhull, now, the one with the wagons,
talked more. And they each had left a letter for the same girl! And this was Miss Molly Wingate?
Well, the trader did not blame them! These American girls! They were like roses to the old
traders, cast away this lifetime out here in the desert.

News? Why, yes, no train ever came through that did not bring news and get news at old Fort
Hall--and so on.

The inclosure of the old adobe fur-trading post was thronged by the men and women of the Wingate
train. Molly Wingate at first was not among them. She sat, chin on her hand, on a wagon tongue
in the encampment, looking out over the blue-gray desert to the red-and-gold glory of the sinking
sun. Her mother came to her and placed in her lap the two letters, stood watching her.

"One from each," said she sententiously, and turned away.

The girl's face paled as she opened the one she had felt sure would find her again, somewhere,
somehow. It said:

     DEAREST: I write to Molly Wingate, because and only because I know
     she still is Molly Wingate. It might be kinder to us both if I did
     not write at all but went my way and left it all to time and
     silence. I found I could not.

     There will be no other woman, in all my life, for me. I cannot lay
     any vow on you. If I could, if I dared, I would say: "Wait for a
     year, while I pray for a year--and God help us both."

     As you know, I now have taken your advice. Bridger and I are joined
     for the California adventure. If the gold is there, as Carson
     thinks, I may find more fortune than I have earned. More than I
     could earn you gave me--when I was young. That was two months ago.
     Now I am old.

     Keep the news of the gold, if it can be kept, as long as you can.
     No doubt it will spread from other sources, but so far as I
     know--and thanks only to you--I am well ahead of any other
     adventurer from the East this season, and, as you know, winter soon
     will seal the trails against followers. Next year, 1849, will be
     the big rush, if it all does not flatten.

     I can think of no one who can have shared our secret. Carson will
     be East by now, but he is a government man, and close of mouth with
     strangers. Bridger, I am sure--for the odd reason that he worships
     you--will tell no one else, especially since he shares profits
     with me, if I survive and succeed. One doubt only rests in my mind.
     At his post I talked with Bridger, and he told me he had a few
     other bits of gold that Carson had given him at Laramie. He looked
     for them but had lost them. He suspected his Indian women, but he
     knew nothing. Of course, it would be one chance in a thousand that
     any one would know the women had these things, and even so no one
     could tell where the gold came from, because not even the women
     would know that; not even Bridger does, exactly; not even I myself.

     In general I am headed for the valley of the Sacramento. I shall
     work north. Why? Because that will be toward Oregon!

     I write as though I expected to see you again, as though I had a
     right to expect or hope for that. 

Well, no sir, you insist that the business is rarer and more difficult to explain, and you
have the wedding take place to escape so that there occurs the phenomenon of emergence of
a perfect human being, much less premature.

In view of what is happening and you are telling, not a few people accuse you of leftover pessimistic
and painting with the darkest colors immorality and vices of the
high society to which it belongs.
     The truth is I love you more than anything else and everything else
     in all the world.

     If I were in other ways what the man of your choice should be,
     would this truth have any weight with you? I do not know and I dare
     not ask. Reason does tell me how selfish it would be to ask you to
     hold in your heart a memory and not a man. That is for me to
     do--to have a memory, and not you. But my memory never can content
     me.

     It seems as though time had been invented so that, through all its
     aeons, our feet might run in search, one for the other--to meet,
     where? Well, we did meet--for one instant in the uncounted ages,
     there on the prairie. Well, if ever you do see me again you shall
     say whether I have been, indeed, tried by fire, and whether it has
     left me clean--whether I am a man and not a memory.

     That I perhaps have been a thief, stealing what never could be
     mine, is my great agony now. But I love you. Good-by.

     WILLIAM HAYS BANION.

  To MARGARET WINGATE,
  Fort Hall, in Oregon.

For an hour Molly sat, and the sun sank. The light of the whole world died.

       *       *       *       *       *

The other letter rested unopened until later, when she broke the seal and read by the light
of a sagebrush fire, she frowned. Could it be that in the providence of God she once had been
within one deliberate step of marrying Samuel Payson Woodhull?

     MY DARLING MOLLY: This I hope finds you well after the hard journey
     from Bridger to Hall.

     They call it Cruel to keep a Secret from a Woman. If so, I have
     been Cruel, though only in Poor pay for your Cruelty to me. I have
     had a Secret--and this is it: I have left for California from this
     Point and shall not go to Oregon. I have learned of Gold in the
     State of California, and have departed to that State in the hope
     of early Success in Achieving a Fortune. So far as I know, I am the
     First to have this news of Gold, unless a certain man whose name
     and thought I execrate has by his Usual dishonesty fallen on the
     same information. If so, we two may meet where none can Interfear.

     I do not know how long I may be in California, but be Sure I go for
     but the one purpose of amassing a Fortune for the Woman I love. I
     never have given you Up and never shall. Your promise is mine and
     our Engagement never has been Broken, and the Mere fact that
     accident for the time Prevented our Nuptials by no means shall ever
     mean that we shall not find Happy Consumation of our most Cherished
     Desire at some later Time.

     I confidently Hope to arrive in Oregon a rich man not later than
     one or two years from Now. Wait for me. I am mad without you and
     shall count the Minutes until then when I can take you in my Arms
     and Kiss you a thousand Times. Forgive me; I have not Heretofore
     told you of these Plans, but it was best not and it was for You.
     Indeed you are so much in my Thought, my Darling, that each and
     Everything I do is for You and You only.

     No more at present then, but should Opportunity offer I shall get
     word to you addressed to Oregon City which your father said was his
     general Desstination, it being my own present purpose Ultimately to
     engage in the Practise of law either at that Point or the
     settlement of Portland which I understand is not far Below. With my
     Means, we should soon be Handsomely Settled.

     May God guard you on the Way Thither and believe me, Darling, with
     more Love than I shall be ever able to Tell and a Thousand Kisses.

  Your Affianced and Impatient Lover,
  SAM'L. PAYSON WOODHULL.

The little sagebrush fire flared up brightly for an instant as Molly Wingate dropped one of
her letters on the embers.

CHAPTER XXXVII

JIM BRIDGER FORGETS

"What's wrong with the people, Cale?" demanded Jesse Wingate of his stouthearted associate,
Caleb Price. The sun was two hours high, but not all the breakfast fires were going. Men were
moody, truculent, taciturn, as they went about their duties.

Caleb Price bit into his yellow beard as he gazed down the irregular lines of the encampment.

"Do you want me to tell you the truth, Jesse?"

"Why, yes!"

"Well, then, it seems to me the truth is that this train has lost focus."

"I don't know what you mean."

"I don't know that I'm right--don't know I can make my guess plain. Of course, every day we
lay up, the whole train goes to pieces. The thing to do is to go a little way each day--get
into the habit. You can't wear out a road as long as this one by spurts--it's steady does it.

"But I don't think that's all. The main trouble is one that I don't like to hint to you, especially
since none of us can help it."

"Out with it, Cale!"

"The trouble is, the people don't think they've got a leader."

Jesse Wingate colored above his beard.

"That's pretty hard," said he.

"I know it's hard, but I guess it's the truth. You and I and Hall and Kelsey--we're accepted
as the chief council. But there are four of us, and all this country is new to all of us. The
men now are like a bunch of cattle ready to stampede. They're nervous, ready to jump at anything.
Wrong way, Jesse. They ought to be as steady as any of the trains that have gone across; 1843,
when the Applegates crossed; 1846, when the Donners went--every year since. Our folks--well,
if you ask me, I really think they're scared."

"That's hard, Cale!"

"Yes, hard for me to say to you, with your wife sad and your girl just now able to sit up--yes,
it's hard. Ah! yes, and some padding; few
paragraphs ... my result, loyalty to the government, freedom, love of institutions! "

It was settled, the court reporters have to work on his account.

VIII

Don Luis finally spoke. After many years of silent parliamentary life, the Journal Session printed
his name, not only in the common type used for voting, but also in bold letters that were
obvious, saying, THE LORD attacked: I ask the floor. When he read his name in the extracts
from newspapers, still felt shivers of fear. At the start of his speech the hall was nearly
full, by the novelty of listening to a senator that ceased to be monosyllabic: After many listeners
took to the aisles, but as peroration was short, there remain numerous enough not to make bad role.
In the bank two ministers remained blue. Pepe was heard from the bottom of a platform: the data notes
and quotes from its pages came intact from the lips of Don Luis, who only put a short paragraph
at the beginning of their harvest to ask for leniency, simulating the two hundred thousand like he had
heard before, also adding the odd phrase to praise the importance of what he was saying. When he
forgot some of the many who committed to memory, threw hand copied the pages that brought in his
own handwriting. Towards the conclusion wanted to expand on the original considerations, but he
was pierced in the throat and ended continued by stating that no more attention not to disturb
the House. He had a good have found a real triumph over the material gathered by Pepe, Don
Luis was well and nothing else. At the end of some applause rang in most banks, and everybody
said he had been discreet, that it represented great knowledge of the matter. A He congratulated
the Minister and this will offset the disappointment that gave newspapers opposition saying
only that Mr. Agreda had consumed a shift in pro. In contrast, eat when they went to see many
friends and after her daughter was at the concert Retiro, round and
round like a bullfighter who has gotten afternoon arm Fortunately
in good thrust.

At home I leave Paz said:

- Say, Daddy, have you served the papers that brought you the boy of the Senate?

- Something, something, the guy is not stupid ... have good will and seems ready.

- Yes, eh?

Peace did not know how to suggest to his father the idea that somehow use of services Pepe,
he realized that Don Luis did not need secretary or clerk.

In fact, his malice was late, the gratified vanity was ahead of impatient love. He was already thinking
in tackling other issues before the close of the Courts. In addition, fortune favored lovers,
because the voters of Don Luis, accustomed to his long silence, shot a cloud of congratulatory telegrams,
after the telegraph used mail and, as was necessary to answer such luck, Senator Pepe determined
to employ as scribe.

One morning he was not caught Don Luis at home, and became part of the books, immediate the office:
Peace appeared soon after, hiding her embarrassment, and pretending to be distracted. Until
then only changing a few sentences, but without a formal conversation:
therefore, the first time I spoke at home, the interview would matter,
pleasing given the complicity established between them.

Peace, after greeting him, dared not to deploy the lips: no experience in such ailments, but her
female instinct I said that it was she who should speak first, and building under the left
balcony spend a few moments.

Pepe got up from his seat and came to it, to distance accused greater
respect than impatience, said:

- Miss, my first duty is to beg you
to forgive me.

I confess that vanity has blinded me. I expect no leniency do not deserve. What I have done
is wrong, I know, and yet, I could not restrain myself. Why lie, if you need to understand what happens
in my soul?

She wanted to talk and Pepe made a move to let him continue.

- Before you tell me one word, I want to be entirely frank with you.

My position, my life, my poverty, and who knows if my education, I am separated from you I've
made the imprudence of leaving poke in the eye what I felt to know you .. Then I thought I saw that
You showed no anger, because maybe you seem too cruel contempt, and
it has come this situation, where there is only one culprit: my vanity.

I dint fix my error of openness.

This language gave wings to the living character of Peace.

- Yes, do you have reason, I understand that I am wrong, I have not come today because this room,
but is I'm as loyal as you.

You want to believe in his sincerity, I have the right I demand that
you cross out of flirtatious or you think that I can have fun at humiliating.

-
Think what you say, miss. It is too good to pay you with scorn and
contempt the feeling aroused in me, but you do not inspire in me feels
pity, but the impulses of his own heart, do not forget to keep listening
to you now is getting ... What another man would be a game with me
would be a mockery.

She, restless, smiled, looking like someone suggests that perhaps did not expect to hear much,
and the words stopped him.

- Jesus, my God!

How you ask!

Before so humble, and now so demanding!

- Demanding?

- Yes, you bet I would say get commitment.

He paused, Peace, pretending to be distracted away two or three steps
and looking back to Pepe, continued

- It should be enough for you
see I'm not angry ...

- Then, "you even knowing what is happening
in my heart allows me to follow you coming to this house?

- Do not
return you to tell me about their poverty?

I do not know what it is, but when you say something that may humiliate, it seems that I am
humbled .-- And he wanted to leave.

       

- No, miss, you hear me a moment. If you know understand what your indulgence for me!

Without letting end, went to the office door and very quietly, with a charming pout, repeat
again:

- Demanding, demanding.

What more could you want? "I'm not angry" - he said - "not you again to talk about his poverty. "Pretender
clarity would be folly.

* * * * *

After two months, their dialogue was now very different, that when the trail opens estimate,
Love widens and paves the way soon.

Peace and shortness or felt or expressed Pepe founded suspicion that
what he was offered other than the future of each: phrases were changed
protests of affection, promise of firmness, the whole repertoire monotonous
and vulgar lovers, always romantic and exaggerated, but eternally
delightful.

Mediated circumstance, however, between them, changing their character. She, despite their resiliency,
afraid to mortify the susceptibility of Pepe, was treated with consideration
that no one else had saved, and he was cold, unbelieving, mocking,
always ready to sweeten reality with his good humor, was primarily
reflective and serious peace, as if you scare that loving intimacy
which, in their view, could not resist the time or would crash against
the harshness of life.

Do not be so easy to get as often as they wish, eventually establish for private use, a postal
service. The initiative was Pepe, the postman deserve chapter.

IX

In the press of Miller was a boy, a mixture of apprentice and orderly, who was called pathetic.
He said his name was Pepe Maldonado, but retained no memory of his family. No one knew his origin,
nor himself. Just remember to have lived in Puerta de Moros, gathered at the home of a greengrocer,
aunt, which they considered very young, do not ever talked to their parents.

One morning the old woman, who used to linger in the municipal license fee of the post pulse,
was taken to prevent and, as a result, took such hot flashes, who died at few hours, coming to
be the guy on the street, no more under God, with mischief by instinct and ignorance guide. A
couple from the neighborhood gave him shelter during five weeks,
but this charity was formerly assistant desire to have intended to
favor him; for when the wife have forced up the river a bag of clothes
over their forces, the husband, who was saddler, he turned green or
purple at the shoulders, forcing him to dye cattails in a yard that
looked like tanks.

When they ate, if left over was for Pepe, if there was no remains, thanks to give him bread
to scrape the pot of stew, so the hunger and a fleece given to him to get into the tub of green
that had to be purple try the patience of the boy. He escaped, and that was the most troubled
period of his life. Scrub in taverns, where he had tips for wages, helping to cool to shout hardware
and collect and sell butts, sleeping in doorways: the existence led for about a few months,
dirty, barefoot, shabby, hungry and flaunting and between the tears of the golden chest camiseja
strong as an antique bronze. Only There were two things do not you try to look for a living: not called
charity or stolen.

Happened to spend a morning down the street from Maldonado, donuts factory had a acquaintance of
the deceased greengrocer, who asked him how he lived buñolero, said the boy worse, and inspire
so sorry knew that there was looking after the retail sale, without promise of payment other
than food and somewhere to sleep. The saddler not heard from again him. The guys who previously
had the buñolero of dependents, which again, which less, they all stolen; Pepe Maldonado was flawless
fidelity. Before dawn, his master and apprentice sobaban mass disposed in the basin and then
fried with unusual speed balls, cakes and cucumber: Pepe, meanwhile, managed the watchmen, mixing
some flour to sprinkle sugar, scrubbing vessel, put everything in place and, when opening the
store, placed upright in the door, dispatched young and old donuts, greasy forming the zinc
surface table covering a lot of quarters and eighths of the Moorish, which left him the dirty
contact mildew-stained fingers. Or eaten a donut or retracted a farthing. No one taught mathematics,
however, to the returns of the currency was smarter than a money changer. If Eve were fritters,
dispatches the first, the average serving of liquor, assumed that the throat when the customer was
insensitive, given the cheap price how expensive, and for constant favoring the house was to
find fresh pasta, fried smoking, which had not yet fallen bubbles of boiling oil. The master was
fond with him in such a degree that he began to treat him as a child and until that was determined
by evening school, where, in a few months, learned to read, write and count. Year to be in the bun
shop, the daughter of the master, who was a girl of fourteen saladísima, ill with smallpox and, strange
to the common people, gifted in such cases as valuable as ignorance, neighbors, acquaintances
and friends left the little patient and their parents complete abandonment. The girl was going
to sweep and mop disappeared without asking a peak that had the wages, and the lad who helped knead
and fry cowardly fired: Pepe remained only there day and night, without going to play with neighborhood
kids or otherwise engage in caring the girl. Guided very clear understanding, was set well in
many disorders suffered, to say them to the doctor, then gave the footage to the recipe, with
due intervals, wrapping up soon as a girl on her wrist. When, for entering the disease the
period of desquamation was easier to get, Pepe, who ignored him,
redoubled care and, during his convalescence, the company was constantly
asking the girl, satisfying their whims and tolerating his impertinence,
to that given already high, became prior to his post and continued
to sell cucumbers to the boys and all the donuts stringing morning
in the reeds, which, with the management of pennies, just by letting
your fingers dirty and greasy, then, four hops, was planted to see
the girl.

So Pepe paid debt of gratitude to those people, but their principal is also well behaved.

-
You're already in the house - he said one day - find another clerk
to the office.

And we to see, you want to follow trade? Say it like you were my son.

Pepe said he wanted to be a compositor, because the school had sent him check friend who your
parents put on a press, which the boy always had the pockets full
of pictures of deliveries, romances a blind, hallelujah rolls remains
and pieces of posters of bulls.

After spending two or three months in crummy printers, came to end in Millan's buñolero was known,
and took root there at once, ie ready appreciated and obedient, they took care. The day was
spent learning the box, trained in composing and distribute, then began to monkeys and patches,
and the night was in the streets sell a twenty-five of a newspaper that there was thrown. What
gave him this sale as kept to himself, and a week's wages in full
on Saturday put him in the hands of buñolero; but what I liked most
was to give it to Isabelita, saying: - "Go, give that to your father."

The other apprentices, envious of that fellow who became more case of them began to take grudge
and play tricks. One day I took the lunch box lunch substituting tortilla press powders. Again,
as was in his shirtsleeves, I stamped on the back a freshly printed galley, with the fresh ink
of a sign saying, "This dog is sold." They even stuff you boots with the fat spreads the wheels
of the machine, while he was working with espadrilles for more rest. Then came the flap Madrid,
brave, Arriscado, witty and willing to give of cheeks or punched with the bravest, and throw
the trip at the same nuncio. With a few timely slaps became respectable. One day, another apprentice
got older against him a razor blade. Pepe took it from her hands, putting his strongly held
him aggressor's head between his legs, and as punishment he ripped up the seam cuchilleja back
of his trousers, then giving it the sun or water ever saw, a few stripes: after the razor
blade quietly returned, saying: - "Here, Bocer, that does not Pá serves only break bread.
"- A work hours was a model of diligence, he arrived time to do mischief, was the skin of the demons.
It seemed to have two types : one for the task, one for the antics, and it would seem that,
as corresponding these two people had two different faces. Leaning over the box looking types,
adjusting words in the box, or distributing letters, used to fold his forehead with a serious frown
of worker and Machucha: then did not speak and puts the focus on what he did, his black eyes acquired
a look of comic gravity: in the street, running or playing with hair disheveled, toasted complexion,
cocked the gorrilla, brash and brimming looking malice, brought to the memory of the old boys
picaresque novels. Peers called him first the Tiznao, because it was very dark, like a Bedouin
faded to force washings: finally Pateta nicknamed him, and stayed with this alias. Miller, who
knows the history of pathetic Grace had fallen into the boy, Pepe much sympathized with him
for a single detail. Was correcting one evening statements of a book, when presented with a humble
attitude Pateta.

- What?

- Ask you a favor, because Mr. Miller has not come.

- Come on, say.

-
Well, I have a girlfriend.

That is, my bride, truth is not, but we talk something ... and tomorrow is his birthday. Look
you, I made this sign and wanted to put in letters Doras glitter, this card ma Costao border
that two materials. Well, well ... tell me you how I do and I leave it on the machine, or whatever,
then they leave those.

Pepe examined the card, adorned with flowers and Amorcitos, which
showed the boy, and saw the sign they had made with the types choose
from the house.

"A Gorilla Isabel, in his day."

(This is a very complicated Gothic), and then, under "For José Maldonado.

"(Here the letters were a lot of adornment.)

- And that Isabel, who
is?

- The daughter of my master.

(Pateta continued to call his protective love.)

- Does the smallpox?

- Yes, sir, but has not quedao signal. Tié the face that gives glory.

- Do you know your master? ...

- Know ... I do not know, because I have not said a peep. As you have money, I do not want create
... Do you understand you? But it malice, because I, nor the bulls go, but I fourth generation
estarme provided in the back talking to her.

       - Well, man, well, come on, keep it or leave it here, at the last
minute to tell you Mr. Ramón what to do, and finish it camaraderie.

This small service rendered to Pateta Pepe, I paid for it in spades.

If it rained suddenly I was the boy ran into the street to fetch
the umbrella keypads: whether to go to the tobacconist for snuff,
back in a tell Jesus to bring coffee from one that was near of printing,
no one walked lighter, and if the coffee had been cold, snuggled up
to the machine steam, not lick the toast or smuggle half sugar, as
did others.

* * * * *

Such was the postman who chose Pepe to ensure their correspondence with Peace, hiding, of course,
he worked at the same press where it was an apprentice.

- If I ask you to do me a favor, can I count on you? - Pepe said one day.

- Send what you want - said the future typesetter.

- The thing has to be between you and me I do not want anyone to know,
understand?

Neither Mr. Miller.

- Neither the stones.

Never failed to secrecy. When Pepe spent two or three days without seeing Paz wrote it, and
pathetic, when leaving work, undertook the walk from the hotel where she, prevented by impatiently
waiting for him behind the glass of the balcony of his room. The range of garden was immediately
to the gate a small oven made of brick and tiled, which served to warm the atmosphere in growing
flowers: Pateta was coming there, watching the time when no servant
could see him, and putting his arm through the bars of gate, depositing
the letter tiles in one of those bad affirmed.

The next day collecting the same site of defense, won him so long walks, and especially pleased
that service is such a pack of waterproof Pepe gave him, and sometimes a coffee half roasted,
which made him smacking taste.

X

The affection of the lovers and the plight of Pepe grew up to par. The amount retirement of Don
Jose, the brainchild of his son, the little that earned Leocadia embroidering and what they tried to
save Dona Manuela, everything was invested in medical and pharmacy. So was the winter of 1872
and that sad Christmas Eve dinner, which spoke of the next Tirso coming and that, after going
Millán, and the old man slept, they discussed children and the mother of which should be made without
going to solve anything, because the common devotion did not produce a single penny of copper.

The
next week the situation worsened with the news that came Tirso: letter that it should not
precede it announced only two days. Pepe wrote to his girlfriend of this Fortunately, mixing
with the words of love he felt for suspicion that an unknown brother:

Adoro Paz:

You're right: Although we are almost daily, so few occasions when we speak freely, that force
must be our long and frequent letters. Things I write you would say to you: what does not stir
you read, my words would lead the soul into force of sincerity. But I understand that there
is no remedy, and even fear that these difficulties not now but other major announcement: believe
me, our love must cost a lot tears. Be as romantic as you want, and is opposite to my way of thinking
about in tone bitter about certain things, but I do, that all the concerns I laugh, I've come
to crash against one of the most powerful. The distance between us would be greater if you
were queen and I groom, like the characters in this French drama were reading the other day.
The situation of my family, our poverty, all that hinders me to make my way in life, I separated
from you. Your father has an enviable position: what do you want to give her daughter a man who has
had to abandon the race due to lack of few dollars per year books and tuition?

But a day of life, life. I do not you ever give up, do not say never leave me, and when are
you who say that we should not meet again, keep silent, because you'll be right. It seems to
me, mocking and godless, no worries, I come to crash into the obstacle more laughable, but stronger-against
social conventions. Kid yourself, our love must be a very short novel, ridiculous to count,
sad for us, unique we take it seriously. How long will this last? Who will get tired before? What do you
expect? Do I to love? Who ever will not be anxious time, which will making it increasingly good
and beautiful, perhaps richer, and me most wretched and poor.

Do not imagine that I want break our relationships: to know that I want, get a letter in which
I talk about your Sweetheart, hear you ever remember me when you suffer and you're missing something
in the joys of not having me on the side, are things that touch my soul and leave me proud of myself.
If you only knew how you pay them my heart! If you could read my thoughts, guessing the ideas,
hide from the vagaries of my dreams ... But I want, while my love, you're convinced of my loyalty.
Before you hear what your father, I want to be me I tell you. What I can offer future? No, I will never
leave you, and if you become a judicious day or more interested, do not cast curses of comedy,
but I separate them resigned from you, loving you as I do now and keeping the best of the memory
remember the love that I've ever had. Never throw you in the face lack of energy or weakness
constancy. It's so natural you forget me! Fed have done with starting to love, but then you weigh.

How
many times have I told you all this? Do not be surprised, because
due to my obsession, to my constant pondering. We can not conceive
the foundation of your love. I love you, so good so beautiful you
are. But you, why do I want? I miss everything around you, you live
in an atmosphere of luxury almost unknown to me, as I live between
deprivation that you can not calculate, and may you always be outsiders,
the least of your whims I could not satisfy many weeks of work, the
people that speak to you have to use derogatory language to for those
in situations similar to mine, went into the house of my parents and
you saw these walls, the furniture, I would hesitate whether to offer
money for pity or conceal what they noticed, by pointing to imagine
that such a shortage could offend: and yet you say that best place
in your heart is for my baby, and you taught me my letters with my
name deleted with your kisses. It fell to the ground and he left it there.

"Do some thinking, men, before you count your gold and drop your plow. Gold don't last, but
the soil does. Ahead of you is the Humboldt Desert. There's no good wagon road over the mountains
if you get that far. The road down Mary's River is a real gamble with death. Men can go through
and make roads--yes; but where are the women and the children to stay? Think twice, men, and
more than twice!" Wingate spoke solemnly.

"Roll out! Roll out!" mocked the man who had abandoned his plow. "This way for Californy!"

The council ended in turmoil, where hitherto had been no more than a sedate daily system. Routine,
become custom, gave way to restless movement, excited argument. Of all these hundreds now encamped
on the sandy sagebrush plain in the high desert there was not an individual who was not affected
in one way or another by the news from California, and in most cases it required some sort
of a personal decision, made practically upon the moment. Men argued with their wives heatedly;
women gathered in groups, talking, weeping. The stoic calm of the trail was swept away in a
sort of hysteria which seemed to upset all their world and all its old values.

Whether for Oregon or California, a revolution in prices was worked overnight for every purchase
of supplies. Flour, horses, tools, everything merchantable, doubled and more than doubled.
Some fifty wagons in all now formed train for California, which, in addition to the long line
of pack animals, left the Sangamon caravan, so called, at best little more than half what it
had been the day before. The men without families made up most of the California train.

The agents for California, by force of habit, still went among the wagons and urged the old
arguments against Oregon--the savage tribes on ahead, the forbidding desolation of the land,
the vast and dangerous rivers, the certainty of starvation on the way, the risk of arriving
after winter had set in on the Cascade Range--all matters of which they themselves spoke by
hearsay. All the great West was then unknown. Moreover, Fort Hall was a natural division point,
as quite often a third of the wagons of a train might be bound for California even before the
discovery of gold. But Wingate and his associates felt that the Oregon immigration for that
year, even handicapped as now, ultimately would run into thousands.

It was mid-morning of the next blazing day when he beckoned his men to him.

"Lets pull out," he said. "Why wait for the Californians to move? Bridger will go with us across
the Snake. 'Twill only be the worse the longer we lie here, and our wagons are two weeks late now."

The others agreed. But there was now little train organization. The old cheery call, "Catch
up! Catch up!" was not heard. The group, the family, the individual now began to show again.
True, after their leaders came, one after another, rattling, faded wagons, until the dusty
trail that led out across the sage flats had a tenancy stretched out for over a half mile,
with yet other vehicles falling in behind; but silent and grim were young and old now over
this last defection.

"About that old man Greenwood," said Molly Wingate to her daughter as they sat on the same
jolting seat, "I don't know about him. I've saw elders in the church with whiskers as long
and white as his'n, but you'd better watch your hog pen. For me, I believe he's a liar. It
like enough is true he used to live back in the Rockies in Injun times, and he may be eighty-five
years old, as he says, and California may have a wonderful climate, the way he says; but some
things I can't believe.

"He says, now, he knows a man out in California, a Spanish man, who was two hundred and fifty
years old, and he had quite a lot of money, gold and silver, he'd dug out of the mountains.
Greenwood says he's known of gold and silver for years, himself. Well, this Spanish man had
relatives that wanted his property, and he'd made a will and left it to them; but he wouldn't
die, the climate was so good. So his folks allowed maybe if they sent him to Spain on a journey
he'd die and then they'd get the property legal. So he went, and he did die; but he left orders
for his body to be sent back to California to be buried. So when his body came they buried
him in California, the way he asked--so Greenwood says.

"But did they get his property? Not at all! The old Spanish man, almost as soon as he was buried
in California dirt, he came to life again! He's alive to-day out there, and this man Greenwood
says he's a neighbor of his and he knows him well! Of course, if that's true you can believe
almost anything about what a wonderful country California is. But for one, I ain't right sure.
Maybe not everybody who goes to California is going to find a mountain of gold, or live to
be three hundred years old!

"But to think, Molly! Here you knew all this away back to Laramie! Well, if the hoorah had
started there 'stead of here there'd be dead people now back of us more'n there is now. That
old man Bridger told you--why? And how could you keep the secret?"

"It was for Will," said Molly simply. "I had given him up. I told him to go to California and
forget me, and to live things down. Don't chide me any more. I tried to marry the man you wanted
me to marry. I'm tired. I'm going to Oregon--to forget. I'll teach school. I'll never, never
marry--that's settled at last."

"You got a letter from Sara Woodhull too."

"Yes, I did."

"Huh! Does he call that settled? Is he going to California to forget you and live things down?"

"He says not. I don't care what he says."

"He'll be back."

"Spare his journey! It will do him no good. The Indian did me a kindness, I tell you!"

"Well, anyways, they're both off on the same journey now, and who knows what or which? They
both may be three hundred years old before they find a mountain of gold. But to think--I had
your chunk of gold right in my own hands, but didn't know it! The same gold my mother's wedding
ring was made of, that was mine. It's right thin now, child. You could of made a dozen out
of that lump, like enough."

"I'll never need one, mother," said Molly Wingate.

The girl, weeping, threw her arms about her mother's neck. "You ask why I kept the secret,
even then. He kissed me, mother--and he was a thief!"

"Yes, I know. A man he just steals a girl's heart out through her lips. Yore paw done that
way with me once. Git up, Dan! You, Daisy!

"And from that time on," she added laughing, "I been trying to forget him and to live him down!"

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE CROSSING

Three days out from Fort Hall the vanguard of the remnant of the train, less than a fourth
of the original number, saw leaning against a gnarled sagebrush a box lid which had scrawled
upon it in straggling letters one word--"California." Here now were to part the pick and the plow.

Jim Bridger, sitting his gaunt horse, rifle across saddle horn, halted for the head of the
train to pull even with him.

"This here's Cassia Creek," said he. "Yan's the trail down Raft River ter the Humboldt and
acrost the Sierrys ter Californy. A long, dry jump hit is, by all accounts. The Oregon road
goes on down the Snake. Hit's longer, if not so dry."

Small invitation offered in the physical aspect of either path. The journey had become interminable.
The unspeakable monotony, whose only variant was peril, had smothered the spark of hope and
interest. The allurement of mystery had wholly lost its charm.

The train halted for some hours. Once more discussion rose.

"Last chance for Californy, men," said old Jim Bridger calmly. "Do-ee see the tracks? Here's
Greenwood come in. Yan's where Woodhull's wagons left the road. Below that, one side, is the
tracks o' Banion's mules."

"I wonder," he added, "why thar hain't ary letter left fer none o' us here at the forks o'
the road."

He did not know that, left in a tin at the foot of the board sign certain days earlier, there
had rested a letter addressed to Miss Molly Wingate. It never was to reach her. Sam Woodhull
knew the reason why. Having opened it and read it, he had possessed himself of exacter knowledge
than ever before of the relations of Banion and Molly Wingate. Bitter as had been his hatred
before, it now was venomous. He lived thenceforth no more in hope of gold than of revenge.

The decision for or against California was something for serious weighing now at the last hour,
and it affected the fortune and the future of every man, woman and child in all the train.
Never a furrow was plowed in early Oregon but ran in bones and blood; and never a dollar was
dug in gold in California--or ever gained in gold by any man--which did not cost two in something
else but gold.

Twelve wagons pulled out of the trail silently, one after another, and took the winding trail
that led to the left, to the west and south. Others watched them, tears in their eyes, for
some were friends.

Alone on her cart seat, here at the fateful parting of the ways, Molly Wingate sat with a letter
clasped in her hand, frank tears standing in her eyes. It was no new letter, but an old one.
She pressed the pages to her heart, to her lips, held them out at arm's length before her in
the direction of the far land which somewhere held its secrets.

"Oh, God keep you, Will!" she said in her heart, and almost audibly. "Oh, God give you fortune,
Will, and bring you back to me!"

But the Oregon wagons closed up once more and held their way, the stop not being beyond one
camp, for Bridger urged haste.

The caravan course now lay along the great valley of the Snake. The giant deeds of the river
in its cañons they could only guess. They heard of tremendous falls, of gorges through which
no boat could pass, vague rumors of days of earlier exploration; but they kept to the high
plateaus, dipping down to the crossings of many sharp streams, which in the first month of
their journey they would have called impassable. It all took time. They were averaging now
not twenty miles daily, but no more than half that, and the season was advancing. It was fall.
Back home the wheat would be in stack, the edges of the corn would be seared with frost.

The vast abundance of game they had found all along now lacked. Some rabbits, a few sage grouse,
nightly coyotes--that made all. The savages who now hung on their flanks lacked the stature
and the brave trappings of the buffalo plainsmen. They lived on horse meat and salmon, so the
rumor came. Now their environment took hold of the Pacific. They had left the East wholly behind.

On the salmon run they could count on food, not so good as the buffalo, but better than bacon
grown soft and rusty. Changing, accepting, adjusting, prevailing, the wagons went on, day after
day, fifty miles, a hundred, two hundred. But always a vague uneasiness pervaded. The crossing
of the Snake lay on ahead. The moody river had cast upon them a feeling of awe. Around the
sage fires at night the families talked of little else but the ford of the Snake, two days
beyond the Salmon Falls.

It was morning when the wagons, well drawn together now, at last turned down the precipitous
decline which took them from the high plateau to the water, level. Here a halt was called.
Bridger took full charge. The formidable enterprise confronting them was one of the real dangers
of the road.

The strong green waters of the great river were divided at this ancient ford by two midstream
islands, which accounted for the selection of the spot for the daring essay of a bridgeless
and boatless crossing. There was something mockingly relentless in the strong rippling current,
which cut off more than a guess at the actual depth. There was no ferry, no boat nor means
of making one. It was not even possible to shore up the wagon beds so they might be dry. One
thing sure was that if ever a wagon was swept below the crossing there could be no hope for it.

But others had crossed here, and even now a certain rough chart existed, handed down from these.
Time now for a leader, and men now were thankful for the presence of a man who had seen this
crossing made.

The old scout held back the company leaders and rode into the stream alone, step by step, scanning
the bottom. He found it firm. He saw wheel marks on the first island. His horse, ears ahead,
saw them also, and staggeringly felt out the way. Belly-deep and passable--yes.

Bridger turned and moved a wide arm. The foremost wagons came on to the edge.

The men now mounted the wagon seats, two to each wagon. Flankers drove up the loose cattle,
ready for their turn later. Men rode on each side the lead yoke of oxen to hold them steady
on their footing, Wingate, Price, Kelsey and Hall, bold men and well mounted, taking this work
on themselves.

The plunge once made, they got to the first island, all of them, without trouble. But a dizzying
flood lay on ahead to the second wheel-marked island in the river. To look at the rapid surface
was to lose all sense of direction. But again the gaunt horse of the scout fell out, the riders
waded in, their devoted saddle animals trembling beneath them. Bridger, student of fast fords,
followed the bar upstream, angling with it, till a deep channel offered between him and the
island. Unable to evade this, he drove into it, and his gallant mount breasted up and held
its feet all the way across.

The thing could be done! Jim Bridger calmly turned and waved to the wagons to come on from
the first island.

"Keep them jest whar we was!" he called back to Hall and Kelsey, who had not passed the last
stiff water. "Put the heavy cattle in fust! Hit maybe won't swim them. If the stuff gets wet
we kain't help that. Tell the wimern hit's all right."

He saw his friends turn back, their horses, deep in the flood, plunging through water broken
by their knees; saw the first wagons lead off and crawl out upstream, slowly and safely, till
within reach of his voice. Molly now was in the main wagon, and her brother Jed was driving.

Between the lines of wading horsemen the draft oxen advanced, following the wagons, strung
out, but all holding their footing in the green water that broke white on the upper side of
the wagons. A vast murmuring roar came up from the water thus retarded.

They made their way to the edge of the deep channel, where the cattle stood, breasts submerged.

Bridger rose in his stirrups and shouted, "Git in thar! Come on through!"

They plunged, wallowed, staggered; but the lead yokes saw where the ford climbed the bank,
made for it, caught footing, dragged the others through!

Wagon after wagon made it safe. It was desperate, but, being done, these matter-of-fact folk
wasted no time in imaginings of what might have happened. They were safe, and the ford thus
far was established so that the others need not fear.

But on ahead lay what they all knew was the real danger--the last channel, three hundred yards
of racing, heavy water which apparently no sane man ever would have faced. But there were wheel
marks on the farther shore. Here ran the road to Oregon.

The dauntless old scout rode in again, alone, bending to study the water and the footing. A
gravel bar led off for a couple of rods, flanked by deep potholes. Ten rods out the bar turned.
He followed it up, foot by foot, for twenty rods, quartering. Then he struck out for the shore.

The bottom was hard, yes; but the bar was very crooked, with swimming water on either hand,
with potholes ten feet deep and more all alongside. And worst of all, there was a vast sweep
of heavy water below the ford, which meant destruction and death for any wagon carried down.
Well had the crossing of the Snake earned its sinister reputation. Courage and care alone could
give any man safe-conduct here.

The women and children, crying, sat in the wagons, watching Bridger retrace the ford. Once
his stumbling horse swam, but caught footing. He joined them, very serious.

"Hit's fordin' men," said he, "but she's mean, she shore is mean. Double up all the teams,
yoke in every loose ox an' put six yoke on each wagon, er they'll get swep' down, shore's hell.
Some o' them will hold the others ef we have enough. I'll go ahead, an' I want riders all along
the teams, above and below, ter hold them ter the line. Hit can be did--hit's wicked water,
but hit can be did. Don't wait--always keep things movin'."

By this time the island was packed with the loose cattle, which had followed the wagons, much
of the time swimming. They were lowing meaningly, in terror--a gruesome thing to hear.

The leader called to Price's oldest boy, driving Molly's cart, "Tie on behind the big wagon
with a long rope, an' don't drive in tell you see the fust two yoke ahead holdin'. Then they'll
drag you through anyhow. Hang onto the cart whatever happens, but if you do get,' in, keep
upstream of any animile that's swimmin'."

"All set, men? Come ahead!"

He led off again at last, after the teams were doubled and the loads had been piled high as
possible to keep them dry. Ten wagons were left behind, it being needful to drive back, over
the roaring channel, some of the doubled heavy teams for them.

They made it well, foot by foot, the cattle sometimes swimming gently, confidently, as the
line curved down under the heavy current, but always enough holding to keep the team safe.
The horsemen rode alongside, exhorting, assuring. It was a vast relief when at the last gravel
stretch they saw the wet backs of the oxen rise high once more.

"I'll go back, Jesse," said Kelsey, the man who had wanted to go to California. "I know her now."

"I'll go with you," added young Jed Wingate, climbing down from his wagon seat and demanding
his saddle horse, which he mounted bare-backed.

It was they two who drove and led the spare yokes back to repeat the crossing with the remaining
wagons. Those on the bank watched them anxiously, for they drove straighter across to save
time, and were carried below the trail on the island. But they came out laughing, and the oxen
were rounded up once more and doubled in, so that the last of the train was ready.

"That's a fine mare of Kelsey's," said Wingate to Caleb Price, who with him was watching the
daring Kentuckian at his work on the downstream and more dangerous side of the linked teams.
"She'll go anywhere."

Price nodded, anxiously regarding the laboring advance of the last wagons.

"Too light," said he. "I started with a ton and a half on the National Pike across Ohio and
Indiana. I doubt if we average five hundred now. They ford light."

"Look!" he cried suddenly, and pointed.

They all ran to the brink. The horsemen were trying to stay the drift of the line of cattle.
They had worked low and missed footing. Many were swimming--the wagons were afloat!

The tired lead cattle had not been able to withstand the pressure of the heavy water a second
time. They were off the ford!

But the riders from the shore, led by Jim Bridger, got to them, caught a rope around a horn,
dragged them into line, dragged the whole gaunt team to the edge and saved the day for the
lead wagon. The others caught and held their footing, labored through.

But a shout arose. Persons ran down the bank, pointing. A hundred yards below the ford, in
the full current of the Snake, the lean head of Kelsey's mare was flat, swimming hard and steadily,
being swept downstream in a current which swung off shore below the ford.

"He's all right!" called Jed, wet to the neck, sitting his own wet mount, safe ashore at last.
"He's swimming too. They'll make it, sure! Come on!"

He started off at a gallop downstream along the shore, his eyes fixed on the two black objects,
now steadily losing distance out beyond. But old Jim Bridger put his hands across his eyes
and turned away his face. He knew!

It was now plain to all that yonder a gallant man and a gallant horse were making a fight for
life. The grim river had them in its grip at last.

In a moment the tremendous power of the heavy water had swept Kelsey and his horse far below
the ford. The current there was swifter, noisier, as though exultant in the success of the
scheme the river all along had proposed.

As to the victims, the tragic struggle went on in silence. If the man called, no one could
hear him above the rush and roar of the waters. None long had any hope as they saw the white
rollers bury the two heads, of the horse and the man, while the set of the current steadily
carried them away from the shore. It was only a miracle that the two bobbing black dots again
and again came into view.

They could see the mare's muzzle flat, extended toward the shore; back of it, upstream, the
head of the man. Whichever brain had decided, it was evident that the animal was staking life
to reach the shore from which it had been swept away.

Far out in midstream some conformation of the bottom turned the current once more in a long
slant shoreward. A murmur, a sob of hundreds of observers packed along the shore broke out
as the two dots came closer, far below. More than a quarter of a mile downstream a sand point
made out, offering a sort of beach where for some space a landing might be made. Could the
gallant mare make this point? Men clenched their hands. Women began to sob, to moan gently.

When with a shout Jed Wingate turned his horse and set off at top speed down the shore some
followed him. The horses and oxen, left alone, fell into confusion, the wagons tangled. One
or two teams made off at a run into the desert. But these things were nothing.

Those behind hoped Jed would not try any rescue in that flood. Molly stood wringing her hands.
The boy's mother began praying audibly. The voice of Jim Bridger rose in an Indian chant. It
was for the dead!

They saw the gallant mare plunge up, back and shoulders and body rising as her feet found bottom
a few yards out from shore. She stood free of the water, safe on the bar; stood still, looking
back of her and down. But no man rose to his height beside her. There was only one figure on
the bar.

They saw Jed fling off; saw him run and stoop, lifting something long and heavy from the water.
Then the mare stumbled away. At length she lay down quietly. She never rose.

"She was standing right here," said Jed as the others came, "He had hold of the reins so tight
I couldn't hardly open his hand. He must have been dead before the mare hit bottom. He was
laying all under water, hanging to the reins, and that was all that kept him from washing on down."

They made some rude and unskilled attempt at resuscitation, but had neither knowledge nor confidence.
Perhaps somewhere out yonder the strain had been too great; perhaps the sheer terror had broken
the heart of both man and horse. The mare suddenly began to tremble as she lay, her nostrils
shivering as though in fright. And she died, after bringing in the dead man whose hand still
gripped her rein.

They buried Kelsey of Kentucky--few knew him otherwise--on a hillock by the road at the first
fording place of the Snake. They broke out the top board of another tail gate, and with a hot
iron burned in one more record of the road:

"Rob't. Kelsey, Ky. Drowned Sept. 7, 1848. A Brave Man."

The sand long ago cut out the lettering, and long ago the ford passed to a ferry. But there
lay, for a long time known, Kelsey of Kentucky, a brave man, who kept his promise and did not
rue back, but who never saw either California or Oregon.

"Catch up the stock, men," said Jesse Wingate dully, after a time. "Let's leave this place."

Loads were repacked, broken gear adjusted. Inside the hour the silent gray wagon train held
on, leaving the waters to give shriving. The voice of the river rose and fell mournfully behind
them in the changing airs.

"I knowed hit!" said old Jim Bridger, now falling back from the lead and breaking oft' his
Indian dirge. "I knowed all along the Snake'd take somebody--she does every time. This mornin'
I seed two ravens that flew acrost the trail ahead. Yesterday I seed a rabbit settin' squar'
in the trail. I thought hit was me the river wanted, but she's done took a younger an' a better
man."

"Man, man," exclaimed stout-hearted Molly Wingate, "what for kind of a country have you brought
us women to? One more thing like that and my nerve's gone. Tell me, is this the last bad river?
And when will we get to Oregon?"

"Don't be a-skeered, ma'am," rejoined Bridger. "A accident kin happen anywheres. Hit's a month
on ter Oregon, whar ye're headed. Some fords on ahead, yes; we got ter cross back ter the south
side the Snake again."

"But you'll go on with us, won't you?" demanded young Molly Wingate.

They had halted to breathe the cattle at the foot of lava dust slope. Bridger looked at the
young girl for a time in silence.

"I'm off my country, Miss Molly," said he. "Beyant the second ford, at Fort Boise, I ain't
never been. I done aimed ter turn back here an' git back home afore the winter come. Ain't
I did enough fer ye?"

But he hesitated. There was a kindly light on the worn old face, in the sunken blue eye.

"Ye want me ter go on, Miss Molly?"

"If you could it would be a comfort to me, a protection to us all."

"Is hit so! Miss Molly, ye kin talk a ol'-time man out'n his last pelt! But sence ye do want
me, I'll sornter along a leetle ways furtherer with ye. Many a good fight is spoiled by wonderin'
how hit's goin' to come out. An' many a long trail's lost by wonderin' whar hit runs. I hain't
never yit been plumb to Californy er Oregon. But ef ye say I must, Miss Molly, why I must;
an' ef I must, why here goes! I reckon my wimern kin keep my fire goin' ontel I git back next
year."

CHAPTER XL

OREGON! OREGON!

THE freakish resolves of the old-time trapper at least remained unchanged for many days, but
at last one evening he came to Molly's wagon, his face grim and sad.

"Miss Molly," he said, "I'm come to say good-by now. Hit's for keeps."

"No? Then why? You are like an old friend to me. What don't I owe to you?"

"Ye don't owe nothin' ter me yit, Miss Molly. But I want ye ter think kindly o' old Jim Bridger
when he's gone. I allow the kindest thing I kin do fer ye is ter bring Will Banion ter ye."

"You are a good man, James Bridger," said Molly Wingate. "But then?"

"Ye see, Miss Molly, I had six quarts o' rum I got at Boise. Some folks says rum is wrong.
Hit ain't. I'll tell ye why. Last night I drinked up my lastest bottle o' that Hundson's Bay
rum. Hit war right good rum, an ez I lay lookin' up at the stars, all ter oncet hit come ter
me that I was jest exactly, no more an' no less, jest ter the ha'r, ez drunk I was on the leetle
spree with Kit at Laramie. Warn't that fine? An' warn't hit useful? Nach'erl, bein' jest even
up, I done thought o' everything I been fergettin'. Hit all come ter me ez plain ez a streak
o' lightnin'. What it was Kit Carson told me I know now, but no one else shall know. No, not
even you, Miss Molly. I kain't tell ye, so don't ask.

"Now I'm goin' on a long journey, an' a resky one; I kain't tell ye no more. I reckon I'll
never see ye agin. So good-by."

With a swift grasp of his hand he caught the dusty edge of the white woman's skirt to his bearded
lips.

"But, James--"

Suddenly she reached out a hand. He was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

One winter day, rattling over the icy fords of the road winding down the Sandy from the white
Cascades, crossing the Clackamas, threading the intervening fringe of forest, there broke into
the clearing at Oregon City the head of the wagon train of 1848. A fourth of the wagons abandoned
and broken, a half of the horses and cattle gone since they had left the banks of the Columbia
east of the mountains, the cattle leaning one against the other when they halted, the oxen
stumbling and limping, the calluses of their necks torn, raw and bleeding from the swaying
of the yokes on the rocky trail, their tongues out, their eyes glassy with the unspeakable
toil they so long had undergone; the loose wheels wabbling, the thin hounds rattling, the canvas
sagged and stained, the bucket under each wagon empty, the plow at each tail gate thumping
in its lashings of rope and hide--the train of the covered wagons now had, indeed, won through.
Now may the picture of our own Ark of Empire never perish from our minds.

On the front seat of the lead wagon sat stout Molly Wingate and her husband. Little Molly's
cart came next. Alongside the Caleb Price wagon, wherein now sat on the seat--hugging a sore-footed
dog whose rawhide boots had worn through--a long-legged, barefoot girl who had walked twelve
hundred miles since spring, trudged Jed Wingate, now grown from a tousled boy into a lean,
self-reliant young man. His long whip was used in baseless threatenings now, for any driver
must spare cattle such as these, gaunt and hollow-eyed. Tobacco protuberant in cheek, his feet
half bare, his trousers ragged and fringed to the knee, his sleeves rolled up over brown and
brawny arms, Jed Wingate now was enrolled on the list of men.

"Gee-whoa-haw! You Buck an' Star, git along there, damn ye!" So rose his voice, automatically
but affectionately.

Certain French Canadians, old-time engagés of the fur posts, now become habitants, landowners,
on their way home from Sunday chapel, hastened to summon others.

"The families have come!" they called at the Falls, as they had at Portland town.

But now, though safely enlarged at last of the confinement and the penalties of the wagon train,
the emigrants, many of them almost destitute, none of them of great means, needed to cast about
them at once for their locations and to determine what their occupations were to be. They scattered,
each seeking his place, like new trout in a stream.

CHAPTER XLI

THE SECRETS OF THE SIERRAS

Sam Woodhull carried in his pocket the letter which Will Banion had left for Molly Wingate
at Cassia Creek in the Snake Valley, where the Oregon road forked for California. There was
no post office there, yet Banion felt sure that his letter would find its way, and it had done
so, save for the treachery of this one man. Naught had been sacred to him. He had read the
letter without an instant's hesitation, feeling that anything was fair in his love for this
woman, in his war with this man. Woodhull resolved that they should not both live.

He was by nature not so much a coward as a man without principle or scruple. He did not expect
to be killed by Banion. He intended to use such means as would give Banion no chance. In this
he thought himself fully justified, as a criminal always does.

But hurry as he might, his overdriven teams were no match for the tireless desert horse, the
wiry mountain mount and the hardy mules of the tidy little pack train of Banion and his companion
Jackson. These could go on steadily where wagons must wait. Their trail grew fainter as they
gained.

At last, at the edge of a waterless march of whose duration they could not guess, Woodhull
and his party were obliged to halt. Here by great good fortune they were overtaken by the swift
pack train of Greenwood and his men, hurrying back with fresh animals on their return march
to California. 

As the night went without asking any street name, and who knows where you intends to go and
insists on hiding it. Doña Manuela and Leocadia was out on the balcony, and the last past him on
a bluff and go for the bow to the Plaza Mayor, had a sentence was the abbreviation of the situation
by running through the family.

- How strange it is me! It seems impossible to be home!

When he returned, after an hour, was not where he was or what he did, just talk the hustle
and bustle of the court. Then he said:

- Many have walked through the streets, and how many stamps there are ugly and obscene in some stores!
But while wearing habits, no one has gotten me.

- What then? - Pepe
said - you thought you were going to eat?

- No wonder I had been
insulted.

As he is free now ungodliness and haunts us and abuser who wants us! ...

- Laugh about it, and you will be convinced it's a lie.

There is no such wickedness, nor such persecution: In short, you
will see a little walk around Madrid.

- I warn you that I care little.

Do not I have good hands?

XIII

Although sleep and travel fatigue and honored him, were not mentioned that night without writing
Tirso a long letter, which perhaps had something to do with the output that was in the afternoon.
While Dona Manuela and Leocadia's father slept, he began to write.

The lamplight shone full and angled his face sallow, his eyes were large, looking brown and stubborn,
a high forehead, somewhat spoiled by depression towards the temples, the tough lips and ledges and
rough features, such as wrong size carved. Dábanle aspect hardness the sharp brow, which involuntarily
frown, and a dark sheen was left safe at the beard, even recently shaved. Feelings seemed a man
with a late, but strong and durable, ready to turn the firm into stubbornness and coldness
in violence. Its sweetness, when the show was to be enforced, his anger, sincere, all accused in the
character own energy before the fight that complacency of the will. His soul possessed grim
devotion, should feel better the earnest proselytizing the sweet Peter Arbuckle God love Santa
Teresa. His priestly progeny was not among the meek of heart, but between those clerics who imagined
heaven's door open with the hatchet to fight Moors. His religious fervor had hints of war enthusiasm.
San Pablo cutting the ear of Roman soldier to defend Christ, or battling in Santiago Clavijo, were
a thousand eyes times more glorious than outlawing Hilary force. Some worship the Lord, others
fight by dilating his kingdom on earth was their Tirso. While the Church had unbelievers to
gag, to defend privileges or privileges require the contemplative life seemed to him own narrow
minds.

       A mystical readings that @ the imagination, preferring the legends
of daring missionaries who are the knights of faith.

A verse liked the Gospel above all: he who says: "I have come to bring peace to the world, but
the sword. "

* * * * *

The next morning he rose early and did not leave.

Leocadia was listening to read newspapers his father, although he
remained a long time with them, not say a word about purpose of his
trip.

When the night was sleeping Leocadia Dona Manuela and Don José, he told his daughter:

- Pepe often come too late?

- No, almost always before noon.

- Then wait for him today and tell him to come into the bedroom: I have to talk to him.

Mother and daughter guessed what it was, but he suggested no suspicion.

All equally surprised by the long silence of Tirso.

It was really weird to not give the any explanation about the trip.

Perhaps came only to see their parents, but this was not credible
who missed so many years without it.

One guess was that it was logical Would he have come to expect? Would
I want to be canon?

Who would it support?

Before midnight came Pepe, and Leocadia, who was waiting for him,
went with him to the bedroom his parents, where Dona Manuela and Don
José asleep waiting disclosed.

Leocadia without a word heard the short dialogue that father and
son argued.

- Pepito, is not it hits you?

- A lot, but you miss
the cause.

- Is that not a word ... Do you not told you anything?

-
Nor.

- Been here two days ... I do not understand what could be.

What do you think?

- No, Dad. If you speak, hear, and if not, let time pass. Already
know.

Has been home to her parents? Welcome is.

Do not you trust us? Well, not them up by force.

- It's cold, indifferent ...

- No: he should be. It is time to talk or want to bother now.

Besides, you know I think: we have tried, we do not know, how we
love ourselves as hell we love it and I? - Y Leocadia nodded her head
yes.

- You're right, son, but I loathe you have it.

The light of a candle that Pepe had made in the next room shakily
lit the table, and the old man's face appeared in print the curious
restlessness that he was concerned.

The bed was half undone, because he was fidgeting in her until she
saw enter your child, and occasionally ran his eyes to his wife, as
astonished that I could sleep free from doubts and suspicions that
he was experiencing.

- Oh, to rest, Dad.

Leocadia Pepe and kissed their father and two children, and left.

Passing of the bedroom Tirso, noted that snoring.

- Do you hear?
- She asked.

- Yes, listen, listen how you lose sleep over the excitement
of being at home.

- Goodbye, Jimmy, see you tomorrow.

- Abur, puppet,
ugly.

- Tonto, look like a boy.

- At the foot of you, madam, ugly,
hideous.

During the following days, Tirso kept identical save: no way out, talked of things indifferent, shunning
all talk about his past, avoiding features of intimacy and acting as have not heard what he disliked.
When eating, sit last in the table, muttering the Benedicite between
his teeth, he knew that others had to pray it, and go at night to
be collected rosary from his pocket, leaving him in his hand to his
room.

The first Sunday he spent in the house he rose more than usual and
was praying over while, but did not leave or mass. Leocadia, taking
a moment he saw him go into the dining room looking for a breviary
called Pepe:

- Come, come and see what has put that in the bedroom.

I have come to make his bed, and look how I feel this. It's nice, huh?

Tirso had covered the glass of the window overlooking the garden with bits of paper brightly
colored, married forming bad taste and whimsical shapes. Sunlight, stained and distorted by
the improvised transparent, giving the room a pitch variegated. It looked like a caricature of a Gothic
window. Furthermore, on the head the bed was against the wall with chewed bread a picture of
a very beautiful San Jose, with curly hair on low heat, rosy cheeks and holding the palm of
a hand a child standing, as if to teach him to make puppets, while the other brandished a stick
with more flowers than bow Seville. On the opposite wall had a chrome: latest Ecumenical Council,
meeting old dressed in red, sitting in a semicircle as bishops in the first act of the African,
among which stood out for their white robes, a man who came to tell secrets in his ear a dove coming
through a window, looking like being wrapped in a light beam. Pepe covers everything at a glance
and made a gesture, between laughs and contempt, telling his sister:

- As these doodles had to buy them out that made the day he arrived,
because certainly has not set foot in the street.

- Certainly.

In the afternoon, while Don José was asleep, the mother in the kitchen
and dressing Pepe to go see Peace in walking distance, Tirso spoke
to his sister dearly, but violent to appear calm.

- Have not gone
to church today ...

- I made the chocolate for all, I've combed hair
and mom, I have composed a tattered a cloak was in your room, Lord,
what a cloth so hard!

I scan the room and I down on the purchase ...

- I mean, here everything, absolutely everything, is before God.

Suddenly, taking a newspaper that was on a chair, read the title: La Libertad Spanish.

- What is this? - And touching only the tips of the fingers, as if
afraid to get dirty he dropped to the ground muttering

- Papelucho
atheists!

- Do not throw it, which then asks for a weapon and Pepe
breaks loose!

Tirso went into his room and Leocadia was to help his mother, but the priest went out immediately
back to the room with the haggard face, and took the paper, crumpled
it hard and made a ball, threw it into a corner.

As the hall was very short, Leocadia heard the rustling paper crushed
and ran back to his brother while ere it closed in his room.

The girl knew what had just happened.

Tirso held before her anger at seeing the paper, but then, left alone, the anger overcame prudence.

The
prospect of a dispute between two brothers, who could sour, frightened Leocadia deeming it happened
a threat to the peace of the house. His good sense told him I was forced to hide it from Pepe.
But how?

After much thought, after trying in vain unwrinkle the newspaper with
his hands, took him to the kitchen and straightened with a hot iron,
leaving it to his brother after find him without seeing him Tirso.

When evening came Pepe Millan, who used to eat there on Sunday, leaving much of the night with
Don Jose, for being near Leocadia. Presentation made him the father of his eldest son happily
ate all desktop and talked about politics, the only conversation
I had the privilege of diverting the poor old man, who was every moment
means to relate the events of that time with those of his youth, drawing
comparisons between men and different times.

Pepe had begun to read Spanish La Libertad, which asked Leocadia and she brought without a single
wrinkle, to the surprise of Tirso, but this remained silent, willing to listen Miller that, looking
from time to time to the girl, holding a dialogue with Don José. Said old:

- Here are not only clumsy, if the liberal party is divided, we will see things sad.

- Already we are seeing. Does it seem to you little development left to take to war?

- If what you have done now for 69 Prim! ... Of course, sooner or later, will to do: with no
progress Conventions anything.

I remember that when the de Vergara, who were actually lost us after the Liberal Party said
the crown the Queen, he was treated like a black-Espartero cornered
him at once, to official Carlist favored them much, they said we were
all brothers, and ours, which winter had beaten in denim pants ...
went to the Philippines or as Fernando Poo looked suspicious.

- That
and similar things so many Republicans in the new generation, because
we convinced that there is no alternative.

- That is very dangerous:
people are not ready.

- And since no one teaches anything, does he
have to learn at their own expense.

- Is that today there is no civic
virtues.

If you had known Mendizabal, then to Olózaga, now so fallen ...:
it was he who called progressives who said before exalted.

It has always been more liberal enthusiasm now. If you only saw what indignation 40 year unfolded
against Toreno and Martinez de la Rosa, requested the extension because of half tithe, and
even the whole tithe and the scoop! Well they would not approve Espartero the famous Councils
Act!

- Enthusiasm sterile, and have often been drowned in blood.

- In that you are right. Was condemned to death for anything. Since the execution of Manzanares
sixty partners and twenty of Alicante, May 8, until the Sergeants
June 22, has last year without any such brutality, except to Zurbano,
and the death of Mariana de Pineda, for whom it was necessary to make
a new club, because my neck was very skinny ...

- In spite of this
- broke Pepe - there are those who look favorably upon the Restoration
and who fights for Don Carlos.

If Spain are monarchists, and especially Bourbon is because nobody
reads contemporary history.

- Finally, my children, you know that
I have a good memory: well, since December 43 to Christmas Eve of
44, two hundred and fourteen people were shot, most by liberals.

-
Have you right, Don Jose, and paid the crown to the Liberal Party,
first by the father and then the daughter, had made so many sacrifices
...

- Well if you do have family holy spirit - Pepe said - we were
without a drop of blood.

Upon hearing this joke wicked Tirso could not take it anymore. Praise Mendizabal, the reference
to tithing and the scoop, the horror of the executions of revolutionaries, the liberal spirit
throbbing in the conversation, made him harm, but to exploit what a grace the third person of
the Holy Trinity, set the height to their outrage. Then, rising from his seat, approached the
group formed by Pepe and Miller with Don José and, as before the
balcony, on which stood clear opening its slender black figure and
said sternly:

- It seems incredible that men talk and opinion!

Miller stopped in deference to his friend, and Don Jose because he repented of having said
such things, leaving room for the wrath of Tirso: Pepe, more passionate, he faced it, and while
talking moderately, he said:

- It is natural to have sympathy for the reactionary parties, are those that protect you; but
do you deny that we can not look good for the Church? Always, and renege on their origin,
has been the enemy of freedom and democracy.

- Freedom!

Freedom! What for? " And what is democracy? allowing them to send crooks. Democracy! How many
pounds of potatoes are bought with that?

- No! freedom is what Christ commanded you to preach democracy is that which hath allowed you,
clerics and monks, born among the most humble, climbing posts highest
in the world.

- For Mendizabal was a thief.

- That is a nonsense
that has nothing to do with what we say.

And look, do not fret; but what I like Mendizabal, is for being who has done more harm to the
Church.

- Hush, my children, hush! - Shouted Don José: - Are you
going to fight now?

I will not say much, but Mendizabal was a great man. Take care if you have had merit a fifth
of the 100,000 men!

Tirso made futile efforts to hide his disgust. In vain to calm those affected hear things. His displeasure
was not grief, but anger, seeing that he was wrong when, shortly set foot in the house, he imagined
that there was no devotion or belief.

His father was a progressive ridiculous that Espartero excited talking, and his brother a demagogue
atheist, of which make a mockery of God and Divine Providence, his mother a poor lady, whom he
imagined to be a saint because he was industrious, and a little girl
presumed Leocadia, who spent the morning embandolinándose hair.

There was no mass, or fasting, or praying; there was no bull, ate meat on Fridays and father
tolerated Pepe wicked jokes. Was to vent their anger about violence in apostrophes, of which
so often heard the gentlemen who frequented the house of Mr. Thaddeus,
but just looked at her brother pity, saying:

- You seem like Jews!

No greater insult conceived.

The women looked at the last words of dialogue, said gruffly, surprising
the news that there Wheels by political matters, Miller went to stand
beside Leocadia; Don Jose was silent, trying to find means of changing
the conversation, stood Tirso to the balcony, as challenging them
to all and ready to resume the dispute.

His figure was arrogant, more like soldiers ready to fight, that
man eager to convince After a while, as a champion who has waited
in vain for his adversary, left the room quietly.

Pepe and Miller went for a walk through the streets. In the portal, that he asked, referring
to the last scene:

- Have you heard?

- You are going to have much trouble.

- Would you believe that this is the time we do not know why you came?

- Was he in town Carlist relationships with people?

- Why do you ask?

- Be careful ... lest there come with some commission. Now stir a lot. Let's see if you give
the police a scare.

To print your father would be a disaster.



Banion knew that this was murder, too, but he knew that naught on earth could stay it now.
To guard as much as he could against a last desperate knife thrust even of a dying man, he
broke free and sprang back as far as he could, falling prostrate on his back as he did so,
tripped by an unseen stone. But Sam Woodhull was not upon him now, was not willing to lose
his own life in order to kill. For just one instant he looked up at the death staring down
on him, then turned to run.

There was no place where he could run. The voice of the man above him called out sharp and hard.

"Halt! Sam Woodhull, look at me!"

He did turn, in horror, in fascination at sight of the Bright Angel. The rifle barrel to his
last gaze became a small, round circle, large as a bottle top, and around it shone a fringed
aura of red and purple light. That might have been the eye.

Steadily as when he had held his friend's life in his hand, sighting five inches above his
eyes, the old hunter drew now above the eyes of his enemy. When the dry report cut the confined
air of the valley, the body of Sam Woodhull started forward. The small blue hole an inch above
the eyes showed the murderer's man hunt done.

CHAPTER XLIV

YET IF LOVE LACK

Winding down out of the hills into the grassy valley of the Upper Sacramento, the little pack
train of Banion and Jackson, six hardy mules beside the black horse and Jackson's mountain
pony, picked its way along a gashed and trampled creek bed. The kyacks which swung heavy on
the strongest two mules might hold salt or lead or gold. It all was one to any who might have
seen, and the two silent men, the younger ahead, the older behind, obviously were men able
to hold their counsel or to defend their property.

The smoke of a distant encampment caught the keen eye of Jackson as he rode, humming, care-free,
the burden of a song.

"Oh, then, Susannah!" admonished the old mountain man, and bade the said Susannah to be as
free of care as he himself then and there was.

"More men comin' in," said he presently. "Wonder who them people is, an' ef hit's peace er war."

"Three men. A horse band. Two Indians. Go in easy, Bill."

Banion slowed down his own gait. His companion had tied the six mules together, nose and tail,
with the halter of the lead mule wrapped on his own saddle horn. Each man now drew his rifle
from the swing loop. But they advanced with the appearance of confidence, for it was evident
that they had been discovered by the men of the encampment.

Apparently they were identified as well as discovered. A tall man in leggings and moccasions,
a flat felt hat over his long gray hair, stood gazing at them, his rifle butt resting on the
ground. Suddenly he emitted an unearthly yell, whether of defiance or of greeting, and springing
to his own horse's picket pin gathered in the lariat, and mounting bareback came on, his rifle
high above his head, and repeating again and again his war cry or salutation.

Jackson rose in his stirrups, dropped his lead line and forsook more than a hundred and fifty
thousand dollars some two mule-pack loads of gold. His own yell rose high in answer.

"I told ye all the world'd be here!" he shouted back over his shoulder. "Do-ee see that old
thief Jim Bridger? Him I left drunk an' happy last summer? Now what in hell brung him here?"

The two old mountain men flung off and stood hand in hand before Banion had rescued the precious
lead line and brought on the little train.

Bridger threw his hat on the ground, flung down his rifle and cast his stoic calm aside. Both
his hands caught Banion's and his face beamed, breaking into a thousand lines.

"Boy, hit's you, then! I knowed yer hoss--he has no like in these parts. I've traced ye by
him this hundred miles below an' up agin, but I've had no word this two weeks. Mostly I've
seed that, when ye ain't lookin' fer a b'ar, thar he is. Well, here we air, fine an' fatten,
an' me with two bottles left o' somethin' they call coggnac down in Yerba Buena. Come on in
an' we'll make medicine."

They dismounted. The two Indians, short, deep-chested, bow-legged men, went to the packs. They
gruntled as they unloaded the two larger mules.

The kyacks were lined up and the mantas spread over them, the animals led away for feed and
water. Bridger produced a ham of venison, some beans, a bannock and some coffee--not to mention
his two bottles of fiery fluid--before any word was passed regarding future plans or past events.

"Come here, Jim," said Jackson after a time, tin cup in hand. The other followed him, likewise
equipped.

"Heft this pannier, Jim."

"Uh-huh? Well, what of hit? What's inter hit?"

"Not much, Jim. Jest three-four hunderd pounds o' gold settin' there in them four packs. Hit
hain't much, but hit'll help some."

Bridger stooped and uncovered the kyacks, unbuckled the cover straps.

"Hit's a true fack!" he exclaimed. "Gold! Ef hit hain't, I'm a putrified liar, an' that's all
I got to say!"

Now, little by little, they told, each to other, the story of the months since they had met,
Bridger first explaining his own movements.

"I left the Malheur at Boise, an' brung along yan two boys. Ye needn't be a-skeered they'll
touch the cargo. The gold means nothin' ter 'em, but horses does. We've got a good band ter
drive north now. Some we bought an' most they stole, but no rancher cares fer horses here an' now.

"We come through the Klamaths, ye see, an' on south--the old horse trail up from the Spanish
country, which only the Injuns knows. My boys say they kin take us ter the head o' the Willamette.

"So ye did get the gold! Eh, sir?" said Bridger, his eyes narrowing. "The tip the gal give
ye was a good one?"

"Yes," rejoined Banion. "But we came near losing it and more. It was Woodhull, Jim. He followed
us in."

"Yes, I know. His wagons was not fur behind ye on the Humboldt. He left right atter ye did.
He made trouble, huh? He'll make no more? Is that hit, huh?"

Bill Jackson slapped the stock of his rifle in silence. Bridger nodded. He had been close to
tragedies all his life. They told him now of this one. He nodded again, close lipped.

"An' ye want courts an' the settlements, boys?" said he. "Fer me, when I kill a rattler, that's
enough. Ef ye're touchy an' want yer ree-cord clean, why, we kin go below an' fix hit. Only
thing is, I don't want ter waste no more time'n I kin help, fer some o' them horses has a ree-cord
that ain't maybe so plumb clean their own selves. Ye ain't goin' out east--ye're goin' north.
Hit's easier, an' a month er two closter, with plenty o' feed an' water--the old Cayuse trail, huh?

"So Sam Woodhull got what he's been lookin' fer so long!" he added presently. "Well, that simples
up things some."

"He'd o' got hit long ago, on the Platte, ef my partner hadn't been a damned fool," confirmed
Jackson. As he was very distracted and very short sighted, and had, if we may avail ourselves of an expression
sick graphic but vulgar, large aristocratic smoke had hardly even tried not set look at an individual
humanity any surrounding, and did not have at least sixteen quarters of nobility. For the servants,
peasants and the poor and disadvantaged, they watched, but looking to protect them and protect them
as far as its means and resources. What is peer to peer, countess Poldy was not one, not anyone
fixed their attention on except perhaps in its class. To excite his charity, for advice or assistance,
every creature human, and it was miserable and helpless, I could get to it, sure that she tend
not disgust her white and pious hands, such as Santa Isabel, Queen of Hungary, on the filthy
scabby head, but if Poldy was to receive a person on the bench and converse familiarly with her, this
person needed to have, among their ancestors, heroes and princes, and be well on its own prim,
cultured and perfect model of courtesy, discretion, and a thousand other rare items.

Someone may qualify this lady's smug, annoying and even unbearable.

I or advocate or injury. The paint as she was, without removing it or put anything. His pride,
to truth, although it is not worth missing apology, not unfounded, because, on Poldy be of
noble lineage and include among their ancestors a hero who fought in Legnano, by Frederick Barba-red
against the army of the Lombard League, and another who was Crusader in Palestine, with the wicked
Emperor Frederick II, she was in itself beautiful and discreet and such fine mettle and character
of such vigor, that looked like a queen and enslaved all wills.

Had sufficed his brief appearances in Vienna, home of an aunt, to
be carried the people behind it and proclaim it were hauptcomtesse
or capital Condesa or princess and captain of the countess all.

Clearly, when she was well, had not been without boyfriends, among
the gentlemen of his class; but, being very fastidious and difficult
to like, no suitor liked not satisfy him.

One seemed silly, another regular, another ugly and other vulgar. In addition, none made love
to her, and repugnant to marry to marry without being in love, remained unmarried.

Retracted almost always lived in the castle, where he neither saw
nor spoke to anyone but his mother, his brother and the people that
served.

In order to benefit, however, some freedom and power to go from time to time in Vienna without
custody other than her maid, at twenty-two had been stiftdame or canoness. No perpetual vow the linking,
just had an obligation to live some days in community and instead amounted short no privileges,
exemptions and authorized consideration.

Molly Wingate sat in her own little room, looking through her window at the far forest and
the mountain peaks in their evening dress of many colors. She was no longer the tattered emigrant
girl in fringed frock and mended moccasins. Ships from the world's great ports served the new
market of the Columbia Valley. It was a trim and trig young woman in the habiliments of sophisticated
lands who sat here now, her heavy hair, piled high, lighted warmly in the illumination of the
window. Her skin, clear white, had lost its sunburn in the moister climate between the two
ranges of mountains. Quiet, reticent, reserved--cold, some said; but all said Molly Wingate,
teacher at the mission school, was beautiful, the most beautiful young woman in all the great
Willamette settlements. Her hands were in her lap now, and her face as usual was grave. A sad
young woman, her Oregon lovers all said of her. They did not know why she should be sad, so
fit for love was she.

She heard now a knock at the front door, to which, from her position, she could not have seen
anyone approach. She called out, "Come!" but did not turn her head.

A horse stamped, neighed near her door. Her face changed expression. Her eyes grew wide in
some strange association of memories suddenly revived.

She heard a footfall on the gallery floor, then on the floor of the hall. It stopped. Her heart
almost stopped with it. Some undiscovered sense warned her, cried aloud to her. She faced the
door, wide-eyed, as it was flung open.

"Molly!"

Will Banion's deep-toned voice told her all the rest. In terror, her hands to her face, she
stood an instant, then sprang toward him, her voice almost a wail in its incredulous joy.

"Will! Will! Oh, Will! Oh! Oh!"

"Molly!"

They both paused.

"It can't be! Oh, you frightened me, Will! It can't be you!"

But he had her in his arms now. At first he could only push back her hair, stroke her cheek,
until at last the rush of life and youth came back to them both, and their lips met in the
sealing kiss of years. Then both were young again. She put up a hand to caress his brown cheek.
Tenderly he pushed back her hair.

"Will! Oh, Will! It can't be!" she whispered again and again.

"But it is! It had to be! Now I'm paid! In discussions with his brother, his mother
and his nurse, appeared distracted. And We often avoiding any company, would give solitary
walks through the forest.

Even ordinary comparison as well as can be surmised and envisaged that the most CONSCIOUS to
find a sweet candy is good, and guessed that insurance Poldy again to find the stork on the
banks of the pond where he found the first time. There was such abundance of frogs, lizards, frogs,
toads and other vermin, which was the land of promise that bird to mosquito, which, by their
large size and the extraordinary length their wings, covered in extreme shiny and black feathers,
knowing that was left male. He gave me this."

"What is it?" She turned to her lover. He held in his hands a long package, enfolded in an
otter skin. "Is it a court summons for Will Banion? They can't have you, Will!"

He smiled, her head held between his two hands.

"'I have a very important document for Colonel William Banion,' the clerk said to me. 'It has
been for some time in our charge, for delivery to him at once should he come into the Oregon
settlements. And note that these ladies pledged to San Vicente, broke thousand times
more against the holy Ignacio broke against the Duchess. Suffice it to recall that a San Vicente
once when he returned to his cell, was found tucked in bed at the pretty lady you intended.
 If you like--if you are, indeed, Colonel William Banion'--that
was what he said."

He broke off, choking.

"Ah, Molly, at last and indeed I am again William Banion!"

He took from the otter skin--which Chardon once had placed over the oilskin used by Carson
to protect it--the long and formal envelope of heavy linen. His finger pointed--"On the Service
of the United States."

"Why, Will!"

He caught the envelope swiftly to his lips, holding it there an instant before he could speak.

"My pardon! From the President! But during the spring, it made up for their forced confinement staying long
hours in the forest. And stopped to meditate, and went slowly and without certain direction,
and it stopped, or look at a flower, a butterfly, a dragonfly, or the capricious effects of
light through the green branches or heard singing birds or the murmur of water from the stream
to break into the pebbles, or the gentle whisper aura of the green and leaves early.

When the Countess gave these rides Poldy pensive as he left, as she used to say, in pursuit of
poetic impressions, did not like anyone to accompany her, always went alone.

II
On a beautiful day of the month of May last, the Countess Poldy was
alone, as intricacies of the forest, between ten and eleven in the
morning.

"Dear girl," said he, "you need never be afraid any more."

She put her head down contentedly against his shoulder, her face nestling sidewise, her eyes
closed, her arms again quite around his neck.

"I don't care, Will," said she. "No, no, don't talk of things!"

He did not talk. In the sweetness of the silence he kissed her tenderly again and again.

And now the sun might sink. The light of the whole world by no means died with it.

THE END

