The Galleries of the Exposition

A Critical Review of the Paintings, Statuary and the Graphic Arts in The Palace of Fine Arts
at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition

By Eugen Neuhaus Assistant Professor of Decorative Design, University of California and Member
of the International Jury of Awards in the Department of Fine Arts of the Exposition

To John E. D. Trask Director of the Department of Fine Arts of the Panama-Pacific International
Exposition, untiring worker and able executive

Contents

Introduction - An Historical Review. The Function of Art.
Retrospective Art
The Foreign Nations
- France
- Italy
- Portugal
- Argentina
- Uruguay
- Cuba
- Philippine Islands
- The Orient
- Japan
- China
- Sweden
- Holland
- Germany
The United States
- One-Man Rooms
- Whistler
- Twachtman
- Tarbell
- Redfield
- Duveneck
- Chase
- Hassam
- Gari Melchers
- Sargent
- Keith
- Mathews and McComas
- General Collection
The Graphic Arts - Conclusion
Appendix
Bibliography - A list of helpful reference books and periodicals for the
     student and lover of art.
Index to Galleries

List of Illustrations

Phyllis --------------------- John W. Alexander
Woman and Child: Rose Scarf - Mary Cassatt
Morning in the Provence ----- Henri Georget
The Promenade --------------- Gustave Pierre
The Procession -------------- Ettore Tito
The Fortune Teller ---------- F. Luis Mora
Water Fall ------------------ Elmer Schofield
The Peacemaker -------------- Ernest L. Blumenschein
The White Vase -------------- Hugh H. Breckenridge
Winter in the Forest -------- Anshelm Schultzberg
Winter at Amsterdam --------- Willem Witsen
In the Rhine Meadows -------- Heinrich Von Zugel
The Mirror ------------------ Dennis Miller Bunker
Coming of the Line Storm ---- Frederick J. Waugh
Lavender and Old Ivory ------ Lilian Westcott Hale
Green and Violet: Portrait of Mrs. E. Milicent Cobden - James McNeill
     Whistler
The Dreamer ----------------- Edmund C. Tarbell
Whistling Boy --------------- Frank Duveneck
Self Portrait --------------- William Merritt Chase
Spanish Courtyard ----------- John Singer Sargent
Oaks of the Monte ----------- Francis McComas
Blue Depths ----------------- William Ritschel
Floating Ice: Early Morning - Charles Rosen
The Land of Heart's Desire -- William Wendt
The Housemaid --------------- William McGregor Paxton
My House in Winter ---------- Charles Morris Young
Quarry: Evening ------------- Daniel Garber
Beyond ---------------------- Chester Beach
In the Studio --------------- Ellen Emmet Rand
Eucalypti, Berkeley Hills --- Eugen Neuhaus
Floor Plan, Palace of Fine Arts

Introduction

The artistic appeals of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition through architecture and
the allied decorative arts are so engrossing that one yields to the call of the independent
Fine Arts only with considerable reluctance. The visitor, however, finds himself cleverly tempted
by numerous stray bits of detached sculpture, effectively placed amidst shrubbery near the
Laguna, and almost without knowing he is drawn into that enchanting colonnade which leads one
to the spacious portals of the Palace of Fine Arts.

It was a vast undertaking to gather such numbers of pictures together, but the reward was great
- not only to have gratified one's sense of beauty, but to have contributed toward a broader
civilization, on the Pacific Coast specifically, and for the world in general besides. It must
be admitted that it was no small task, in the face of many very unusual adverse circumstances,
to bring together here the art of the world. Mr. John E. D. Trask deserves unstinted praise
for the perseverance with which, under most trying circumstances, unusual enough to defeat
almost any collective undertaking, he brought together this highly creditable collection of
art. Wartime conditions abroad and the great distance to the Pacific Coast, not to speak of
difficulties of physical transportation, called for a singularly capable executive, such as
John E. D. Trask has proved himself to be, and the world should gratefully acknowledge a big
piece of work well done. I do not believe the art exhibition needs any apologies. Its general
character is such as fully to satisfy the standards of former international expositions.

It seems only rational that, with the notorious absence of any important permanent exhibition
of works of art on the Pacific Coast, an effort should have been made to present within the
exhibit the development of the art of easel painting since its inception, because it seems
impossible to do justice to any phase of art without an opportunity of comparison, such as
the exposition affords. The retrospective aspects of the exhibition are absorbingly interesting,
not so much for the presentation of any eminently great works of art as for the splendid chance
for first-hand comparison of different periods. Painting is relatively so new an art that the
earliest paintings we know of do not differ materially in a technical sense from our present-day
work. Archaeology has disinterred various badly preserved and unpresentable relics of old arts
such as sculpture and architecture. It is little so with pictures. Painting is really the most
recent of all the fine arts. It must seem almost unbelievable that the greatest periods of
architecture and sculpture had become classic when painting made its début as an independent
art. It is true enough that the Assyrians and Egyptians used colour, but not in the sense of
the modern easel painter. We are also informed, rather less than more reliably, that a gentleman
by the name of Apelles, in the days of Phidias, painted still-lifes so naturally that birds
were tempted to peck at them, and we know much more accurately of the many delightful bits
of wall-painting the rich man of Pompeii and Herculaneum used to have put on his walls, but
the easel painting is a creation of modern times.

The sole reason for this can hardly be explained better than by pointing out the long-standing
lack of a suitable medium which would permit the making of finer paintings, other than wall
and decorative paintings. The old tempera medium was hardly suited to finer work, since it
was a makeshift of very inadequate working qualities. Briefly, the method consisted of mixing
any pigment or paint in powder form with any suitable sticky substance which would make it
adhere to a surface. Sticky substances frequently used were the tree gums collected from certain
fruit-trees, including the fig and the cherry. This crude method is known by the word "tempera,"
which comes from the Latin "temperare," to modify or mix, and denotes merely any alteration
of the original pigment. Tempera painting, as the only technique known, was really a great
blessing to the world, since it prevented the wholesale production in a short time of such
vast quantities of pictures as the world nowadays is asked to enjoy.  I am not so sure that
the two brothers, the Flemish painters Hubert and Jan van Eyck, who are said to have given
us the modern oil method, are really so much deserving of praise, since their improved method
of painting with oils caused a production of paintings half of which might much better have
remained unpainted. The one thing that can be said of all paintings made before their day is
that they were painted for a practical purpose. They had to fit into certain physical conditions,
architectural or other. Most modern paintings are simply painted on a gambler's chance of finding
suitable surroundings afterwards. Nowadays a picture is produced with the one idea of separating
it from the rest of the world by a more or less hideous gold frame, the design of which in
many cases is out of all relation to the picture as well as to the wall. In fact, most frames
impress one as nothing but attempts to make them as costly as possible.

I imagine that practically all true painters would rather do their pictures under and for a
given physical condition, to support and be supported by architecture; but with the unfortunate
present-day elimination of paintings from most architectural problems, most artists have to
paint their pictures for an imaginary condition. The present production of paintings has become
absolutely unmindful of the true, function of a painting, which is to decorate in collaboration
with the other arts - architecture and sculpture.

It is necessary to bear these facts in mind in trying to do justice to a large aggregate of
canvases in an international exhibition, or any exhibition. Thousands of pictures, created
by a host of different artists, are temporarily thrown together. The result, of course, can
never be entirely satisfying. Many devices are employed to overcome this very disturbing condition
and with varying success. The hanging of pictures against neutral backgrounds, the grouping
of works of one man, the selection of works of similar tonality, colour schemes, technique,
subject, style, etc. - these are all well known methods of trying to overcome the essential
artificiality of the methods of exhibition of modern paintings. I doubt whether so long as
we insist upon art exhibitions of the conventionally accepted type, we shall ever be able to
present pictures with due regard to their meaning. We must not make the mistake of blaming
a director of an exhibition for a difficulty which he cannot possibly overcome. So long as
painters turn out thousands of pictures, we can expect only the results which are much in evidence
in all modern exhibitions. The fault is entirely with the artist, who is forever painting easel
pictures, and neglecting the great field of decorative painting. On investigation of our exhibition
we shall find that the good picture - that is, the picture of a certain respectful attitude
toward its function, which is largely decorative - is far less injured by unavoidable neighbors
than the loud-mouthed canvas of the "Look! Here I am!" variety, which is afraid of being overlooked.
Art exhibitions of the generally adopted modern type are logically intolerable, and the only
solution of the problem of the correct presentation of pictures is to display fewer of them,
within certain individual rooms, designed by artists, where a few pictures will take their
place with their surroundings in a unity of artistic expression.

It is certainly no small task to enjoy a large exhibit like ours and to preserve one's peace
of mind. The purpose of these pages is to assist in guiding the uninitiated, in his visit and
in retrospect, without depriving him of the pleasure of personal observation and investigation.
It is not to be expected that all pictures exhibited should be of a superior kind. If so, we
should never be able to learn to recognize the good among the bad. So many pictures are only
experiments. Only by having the opportunity for comparison can we learn to discriminate. The
predominant characteristic of our art exhibition is its instructive value in teaching the development
of painting by successive periods, sometimes represented and some times only indicated. The
person who never had the opportunity to visit the larger historical collections of paintings
abroad, could here obtain an idea of the many changes in subjects, as well as in technique,
which have taken place in the relatively short existence of the art of painting. It is unfortunately
true that the majority of people are not at all interested in the technical procedure of the
making of the picture, but wholly in the subject matter. If this be pleasing, the picture is
apt to be declared a success. The artist, on the other hand, and to my mind very justly, looks
primarily for what he calls good painting, and a simple statement of these two points of view
explains a great deal of very deplorable friction between the artist and the willing and enthusiastic
layman, who is constantly discouraged by finding that his artist friend greets his pet canvas
with a cynical smile.

The subject of the appreciation of pictures from a theoretical point of view is not exactly
the purpose of this book. So enormous is it that it could be dealt with adequately only in
a separate volume the writing of which I look forward to with joyful anticipation. What I should
like to do - and I should be very glad if I could succeed - is to bring the public a little
closer to the artist's point of view through the discussion of the merit of certain notable
works of art. It is my conviction that it is the manifestations of an artists artistic conscience
which make exhibitions good, and not the question whether the public likes certain pictures
or not. Only by constant study, a serious attitude, and a willingness to follow the artist
into his realm can the public hope fully to enjoy the meaning of the artist's endeavors.

The Galleries of the Exposition

Retrospective Art

It would seem only logical to begin our investigation with the pictures chronologically oldest,
at the same time recognizing that European art has the right to first consideration. We are
the hosts to the art of the world. Our own art is the newest, and yet occupies a large number
of galleries most conspicuously, but it will not lose by waiting for attention till the end.

Gallery 63.

Some of the very earliest paintings in the exhibition are found in one of the large center
rooms on the left, where a very stately Tiepolo controls the artistic atmosphere of a large
gallery. This picture has all the qualities of an old Italian master of the best kind. Its
composition is big and dignified and in the interest and richness of its color scheme it has
here few equals. The chief characteristic of this splendid canvas is bigness of style. In its
treatment it is a typical old master, in the best meaning of the term.

On the left of this Tiepolo, a rather sombre canvas by Ribera claims attention by the peculiar
lighting scheme, so typical of this Italian master. While there is what we might call a quality
of flood lighting in the Tiepolo, giving an envelope of warm, mellow light to the whole picture,
Ribera concentrates his light somewhat theatrically upon his subjects, as in the St. Jerome.
The picture is freely painted, with the very convincing anatomical skill that is manifest in
most of Ribera's work. His shadows are sometimes black and impenetrable, a quality which his
pictures may not have had at the time of their production, and which may be partly the result
of age. The Goya on the same wall is uninteresting - one of those poor Goyas which have caused
delay in the just placing of this great Spaniard in the history of art.

The Turner below the Goya has all the imaginative qualities of that great Englishman's best
work. Venice may never look the way Turner painted it, but his interpretation of a gorgeous
sunset over a canal is surely fascinating enough in its suggestion of wealth of form and color.
Sir William Beechey's large canvas of a group of children and a dog probably presented no easy
task to the painter. The attempt at a skillful and agreeable arrangement of children in pictures
is often artificial, and so it is to my	 mind in this canvas. Nevertheless the colouring, together
with the spontaneous technique, put it high above many canvases of similar type. The Spanish
painting on the right of the Beechey could well afford to have attached to it the name of one
of the best artists of any school. The unknown painter of this Spanish gentleman knew how to
disclose the psychology of his sitter in a straightforward way that would have done honor to
Velasquez, or to Frans Hals, of whom this picture is even more suggestive.

Below this very fine portrait Sir Godfrey Kneller is represented by a canvas very typical of
the eighteenth century English portrait painters. The canvas has a little of the character
of everybody, without being sufficiently individual. Reynolds' "Lady Ballington" has a wonderful
quality of repose and serenity, one of the chief merits of the work of all those great English
portrait painters of the eighteenth century. No matter whose work it is, whether of Reynolds,
Romney, Hoppner, or any of that classic period of the painters of distinguished people, they
always impress by the dignity of their composition and colour. We do not know in all cases
how distinguished their sitters really were, but like Reynolds' "Lady Ballington," they must
often have been of a sort superior physically as well as intellectually.

Above the Reynolds a small Gainsborough landscape blends well with the predominant brown of
these old canvases. From the point of view of the modern landscape painter, who believes in
the superiority of his outlook and attitude toward nature, we can only be glad that Gainsborough's
fame does not depend upon his representation of out-of-doors. This small canvas, like the very
big one on the opposite wall, is interesting in design. But neither gives one the feeling of
outdoors that our modern landscape painters so successfully impart. Historically they are very
interesting, and even though they carry the name of such a master of portraits as Gainsborough
undoubtedly was, they are devoid of all the refreshing qualities that modern art has given
to the world.

Sir Peter Lely and Sir Henry Raeburn claim particular attention on the north wall - the first
by a deftly painted portrait of a lady, and the other by a broadly executed likeness of John
Wauchope. As portraits go, the first picture is one of the finest in the gallery. Very conspicuous
by their size, the two big Romney portraits on the east wall are not in the same class with
either the Lawrence or the Reynolds on the same wall. The great Lawrence portrait, the lady
with the black hat, is one of the most superb portraits in the world. There is a peculiar charm
about this canvas quite independent of the very attractive Lady Margaret represented in the
picture. The luscious blacks and pale reds and the neutral cream silk cape make for a colour
harmony seldom achieved. Reynolds' portrait of John Thomas, Bishop of Rochester, is equally
rich and full of fine colour contrasts. The shrewd-looking gentleman is psychologically well
given, although one's attention is detracted from the head by the gorgeous raiment of a dignitary
of the church.

I think Hogarth's portrait on the small wall to the right does not disclose this master at
his best, nor does Hoppner rise to the level of his best work in the large portrait alongside
of it. The Marchioness of Wellesley is better and more sympathetically rendered than her two
children, who barely manage to stay in the picture.

On the whole an atmosphere of dignity permeates this gallery of older masters. One may deplore
the lack of many characteristics of modern art in many of the old pictures. They are very often
lifeless and stiff, but the worst of them are far more agreeable than most of those of our
own time. The serene beauty of the Tiepolo, the Lawrence, and the Gainsborough portrait has
hardly been surpassed since their day. Our age is, of course, the age of the landscape painter,
the outdoor painter, as opposed to the indoor portraits of these great masters. It would not
be right to judge a Gainsborough by his landscapes any more than it would be to judge a modern
landscape painter by his portraits. But no matter how uninteresting these old landscapes are,
their brown tonality insures them a certain dignity of inoffensiveness which a mediocre modern
work of art never possesses, I would rather any time have a bad old picture than a bad one
of the very recent schools. Modesty is not one of the chief attributes of modern art, and the
silent protest of a gallery such as the one we are now in, the artist can well afford to heed.

The sculpture in this gallery has no relation to the historical character of the room, but
fits well into the atmosphere.  Adolph A. Weinman's admirable "Descending Night" is so familiar
to all Exposition visitors, in its adaptation in a fine fountain in the Court of the Universe,
that no more reference need be made to it. Here in bronze on a small scale, it is even more
refined. Mrs. Saint Gaudens' charming family group, in burnt clay, is not so well in harmony
with this gallery of older work, but infinitely more appealing than J. Q. A. Ward's "Hunter"
or Cyrus Dallin's "Indian". Both of these groups lack suggestive quality. They are carried
too far. Edward Kemeys' "Buffaloes" lacks a sense of balance. The defeated buffalo, pushed
over the cliff, takes the interest of the observer outside of the center of the composition,
and a lack of balance is noticeable in this otherwise well modelled group.

Gallery 91.

In this room one is carried farther back into the earlier phases of painting by a Luini of
pronounced decorative quality. The picture is probably a part of a larger scheme, but it is
well composed into the frame which holds it. Besides, it is of interest as the only piece of
old mural painting included in the exhibition. The ground on which the angel is painted is
a piece of the plaster surface of the original wall of which this fragment was a part. The
method of producing these fresco paintings (al fresco calco) necessitated the employment of
a practical plasterer besides the painter. The painting was first drawn carefully on paper
and then transferred in its outlines upon freshly prepared plaster, just put upon the wall.
Having no other means of making the paint adhere to the surface, the painter had to rely upon
the chemical reaction of the plaster, which would eventually unify the paint with itself. It
was a very tedious process, which nowadays has been superseded by the method of painting on
canvas, which after completion in the studio is fastened to the wall. Above the Luini hangs
a very Byzantine looking Timoteo Viti "Madonna" of interesting colour and good design, but
with a Christ child of very doubtful anatomy, and also two old sixteenth century Dutch pictures
- a Jan Steen and a Teniers. I have my doubts as to the authenticity of the last two pictures.
They are both interesting as disclosing the fondness of the Dutch painters of the sixteenth
century for over-naturalistic subjects.

On wall B two pictures, without author or title, appeal to one's imagination. They are both
well painted and rich in colour. A certain big decorative quality puts them far above their
neighbor - a Dutch canvas of bad composition with no redeeming features other than historical
interest. Jacopo da Ponte's big "Lazarus" has a certain noble dignity. Though it is rather
black in shadows, it is not devoid of colour feeling. On either side are two old Spanish portraits
of children of royalty. They impress by their very fine decorative note, charmingly enhanced
by the wonderful frames. Another Ribera, as forceful as the one mentioned before, easily stands
out among the many pictures in this gallery, most of which are only of historical interest.
The whole aspect of this little gallery is one of extreme remoteness from modern thought and
idea, but as an object lesson of certain older periods it is invaluable.

Gallery 92.

Chronologically a typical old Charles Le Brun presides over a very interesting lot of pictures,
mostly French. This academic canvas, of Darius' family at the feet of Alexander, has not the
simplicity and decorative quality of the Italian pictures of that period, and it is entirely
too complex to be enjoyable. The beautiful Courbet on the left, while suggestive of Ribera
in its severe disposal of light and shadow, has also a quality of its own, a wonderful mellowness
which gives it a unity of expression lacking in its turbulent neighbor on the right.

Among the other bigger pictures in this small gallery, a very poetic Cazin, "The Repentance
of Simon Peter," commands attention by a certain outdoor quality which faintly suggests the
Barbizon school. One does not know what to admire most in this fine canvas. As a figural picture
it is intensely beautiful, and merely as a landscape it is of convincing charm. It is to my
mind one of the finest paintings in the exhibition, and a constant source of great pleasure.

The big Tissot offers few excuses for having been painted at all. It is nothing but a big illustration
- all it tells could have been said on a very small canvas. There is no real painting in it,
nor composition - nothing else, for that matter. The two Monticellis on the same wall make
up for the Tissot. Rich in colour and design, the one to the left is particularly fine. The
Van Marcke on the same wall is typical of this painter's methods, but does not disclose his
talent for very interesting pictorial compositions, for which he was known.

On the opposite wall an older Israels gives lone a good idea of the earlier period of this
great Dutch painter, justly counted as one of the great figures of the second half of the last
century. While of recent date, his art belongs to the older school - without attaching any
odium to that classification. The Barbizon school, the most important of the last century,
is very fitly represented by two charming and most delicate Corots on either side of the Israels.
The one to the right is particularly tender and poetic. While by no means an attempt at a naturalistic
impressionistic interpretation of nature, like a modern Metcalf, for instance, their suggestive
power is so great as to overcome a certain lack of colour by the convincingness of the mood
represented. Daubigny and Rousseau, of that great company of the school of 1825, are merely
suggested in two small and very conscientious studies.

Gallery 62.

This will always be remembered as the gallery of the "Green Madonna". Whatever caused this
"Green Madonna" to be honored by a Grand Prix at Paris will always remain one of those mysteries
with which the world is laden. Of all disagreeable colour schemes, it is certainly one of the
least appealing ever put upon a canvas. It is hardly a scheme at all, since I do not believe
the juxtaposition of so many different slimy greens, nowhere properly relieved nor accentuated
by a complementary red, can ever be called a scheme. Technically speaking, the canvas is well
painted, but it is hardly worthy of the attention its size and subject win. Dagnan-Bouveret
has rendered good service as a teacher and also as a painter of animal life, but in this canvas
he surely is not up to his best.

The Barbizon men continue to hold one's attention by a splendid Troyon. It is one of the best
of his canvases I have ever seen. The little Diaz alongside of it is also typical of this very
luminous painter, who often attains a lusciousness of colour in his work not reached by any
other of the Barbizon men.

Fortuny, in an Algiers picture, shows the same brilliant technical quality which is so much
in evidence in a small watercolor in the preceding gallery. Jules Bastien-LePage's studio nude
seems very unhappily placed in a naturalistic background into which it does not fit, and Cazin's
big canvas, while very dignified, hardly comes up to the level of his repenting "Simon Peter",
in the other gallery. Pelouse's landscape, of singularly beautiful composition and colour,
should not be overlooked. It is alongside the Cazin.

While almost all the pictures referred to so far are of the French school, there are three
pictures of the older German school - two Lenbachs, one a very accurately drawn portrait of
the German philosopher Mommsen, and the other a portrait of himself. They show this powerful
artist in two different aspects. While the Mommsen is one of his later, broader pictures, the
portrait of himself is of an earlier date, showing the artist as the serious student he has
always been. Adolph Schreyer, another German, with his Bedouin pictures, was the pet of the
art lovers in his day, and pictures like this can be found in almost every collection in the world.

The miscellaneous sculpture in this gallery is full of interest and gives one a good suggestion
of the great mass of small modern sculpture found throughout the galleries. Mora's Indian figures
are particularly interesting from their originality of theme. Mora tries hard to be unconventional,
without going into the bizarre, and succeeds very well.

Gallery 61.

The difference of appearance in the four older galleries discussed and the one now visited
is so marked as to lead one to believe that our investigations have not been conducted in the
proper chronological order. All the art of the world, up to and including the Barbizon school,
is characterized by a predominant brown colour which, on account of its warmth, is never disagreeable,
although sometimes monotonous. 

Continued to be surprised in his home, running room. Again to be somebody. The sight of his
riches, the enjoyment of its comforts, he returned the notion dignity. At the same time was raised
in the memory of all the humiliations and insults he had suffered. Ah, you bastards! ...

Two days after the morning rang the doorbell of his door. A visit!

A soldier walked toward him, a small line infantryman, shy, in kepi
in his right hand, muttering excuses in Spanish.

- I know you were
here ... I come to ...

Is this voice?

... Don Marcelo pulled him in the dark reception, leading to a balcony
... He looked so beautiful!

... The red kepi was obscured by dirt, the cloak, too wide, was shaved and recosido; the boots
gave off a smell of leather. Never had seen his son as smart and handsome as he was now store this
waste.

- You! ... You!

...

The father embraced him convulsively, crying like a child, feeling her feet refused to sustain.

I had always hoped would eventually be understood.

She had her blood was good, no other defects a certain stubbornness.

He apologized for what happened now, attaches itself to large blame. It had been too hard.

- You soldier! - Repeated -.

You defend my country, which is not yours! ...

And back to kiss him, then steps back to appreciate its appearance. Decidedly she was more beautiful
in his grotesque uniform when he was famous for its elegance the dancer, beloved of women.

Finally
control his emotions. Her eyes filled with tears, shone with evil
glare.

A gesture of hate his face twitched.

- Watch --- stated simply -. You do not know what this war I come from it, I've seen closely. There
is a war like any other, with enemies loyal: it is a hunt for wild
animals ... Strip without scruple against the pile.

For each Tumbes, deliver mankind from danger.

He paused a moment, as if he doubted, and added to the end with tragic calm:

- Maybe you'll find familiar faces in front of you. The family is not always to our taste. Men
of your blood is on the other side. If you see any of them ... do not hesitate, pull! is your
enemy. Kill! ... Kill him!

PART THREE

I

After the Marne

In late October, Desnoyers family returned to Paris. Doña Luisa could not live in Biarritz away from
her husband, in vain "the romantic" spoke of the dangers of return. The government was still in Bordeaux,
the president and the ministers were only fast appearances in the
capital.

Could change at any moment during the war: what the Marne represented only a temporary relief
... But the good lady remained insensitive to these suggestions after reading the letters of
Don Marcelo. Also, thinking of his son, its July, a soldier ... He thought back to Paris would
be more in touch with him in the nearby beach to the Spanish border.

Chichi also wanted to return. René occupied much space in their thinking. The absence had served
to learn that she was in love. Long time no see 'soldier »!... sugar And the family left their
hotel life to return to the Avenue Victor Hugo.

Paris was changing its appearance after the toss at the beginning of September. The two million
poor people who remained quietly in their homes without being drawn panic, had welcomed the victory
with grave serenity. None accurately explained the course of the battle came to know when it was over.

One
Sunday in September, at the hour when the Parisians strolling the beautiful building evening, they
learned from the newspapers the great victory of the Allies and the
danger had run.

The people rejoiced, but without abandoning his attitude calmly. Six weeks of war had changed
radically the character of Paris, noisy and impressionable.

The victory was slowly returning to the capital its former glory. A deserted street weeks were
filled with pedestrians. Iban opening stores. The neighbors used at home to a monastic silence,
returned to hear noises in the roof installation and under his feet.

The joy of seeing Don Marcelo reach theirs was obscured by the presence of Dona Elena. Germany
was returning to meet the enemy again at home. When could be freed from this bondage? ... She was
silent in the presence of his brother. Events Recent seemed disorienting.

His face wore an expression of surprise, as though he saw disorder in the heart most basic physical
laws. He could not understand in their reflective silences how the Germans had not won this ground
she walked on, and to explain this failure, admitted the most absurd
suppositions.

A particular concern increased his sorrow. Their children ... What would your children! Don
Marcelo never spoke of his meeting with Captain von Hartrott. Shut up his trip to Villeblanche,
not wanting to tell their adventures during the Battle of the Marne. What sad his men with
such misery? ... Had merely to announce to Dona Luisa, alarmed by
the fate of his castle, many years could not go to him as having become
uninhabitable.

A zinc plate cap now to replacing the old roof to prevent rains topped the internal destruction.
Later, after the peace, think of your renewal. For now had too many people ... And all the ladies,
even Dona Elena, shuddered, imagining the thousands of corpses in a circle around the building,
hidden in the soil. This view was moaning again to Madame de Hartrott: "Oh, my children!"

His brother, for humanity, had reassured about the fate of one of them, Captain Otto. He was in perfect
health at the beginning of the battle. I knew a friend who had talked with him ... And would
not say more.

Doña Luisa part of a day spent in churches, numbing their concerns with the prayer. These sentences
were no longer vague and generous about the fate of millions of unknown
men for the victory of an entire people.

The concrete with maternal selfishness in one person, his son, a soldier like the others and
perhaps at that time was endangered. The tears that cost him! ... Had pleaded that he and his
father would understand, and when God wanted to encourage it to end
with a miracle, Julio moved away to meet death.

Their prayers were never alone. Someone praying beside her at the church making same requests. The
teary eyes of her sister rose at the same time as yours to the body crucified. "Lord, save my
son !...» Doña Luisa, saying this looked to July as he had shown her husband in a pale photograph received
from the trenches with kepi and cape, his legs crushed by a band of cloth, a gun in his right
hand and his face darkened by a nascent beard. "Lord, protect Dona Elena looked !...» to turn
a group of officers with helmets and uniform reseda green spots match leather gun, the twins,
the map pockets and belt from which hung a sword.

When you see them out together to Saint-Honoree d'Eylau, Don Marcelo
was angry sometimes.

- They are playing with God ... This is not
serious.

How can attend a prayer so contrary? ... Ah, women!

And with the superstition that awakens the danger, he believed his
sister caused a serious evil to your child.

Divinity, tired of so much prayer contradictory, would return back to not hear about or to others.
Why did not leave this woman fatal?

...

Just as the beginning of hostilities, he felt the torment of his presence. Doña Luisa unconsciously
repeating the allegations of his sister, subject to the test than the husband. Don Marcelo could
well find that the victory of the Marne there had been no never in reality was an invention
of the Allies. The German generals had believed wise go back, because of its high strategic forecasts,
leaving for later the conquest Paris, the French had not done more than go after their steps, and
let them free field. That was all. She knew the views of some countries military neutral, had
spoken in Biarritz with highly competent people, knew what people were saying German newspapers.
Nobody believed in beyond the Marne.

The public did not even know this battle.

- Your sister says that? - Interrupted Desnoyers, pale with surprise
and anger.

Only he could think of wanting a complete transformation of that enemy housed under his roof.
Ay! Why did not become man? Why not come to take his place, if only for half an hour, the phantoms
of her husband? ...

- But the war continues - naively insisted Dona Luisa -. The enemies are still in France ... What
has served as the Marne?

He accepted the explanation, shaking his head with an air of intelligence,
understanding all immediately, to forget and repeat then an hour later
the same doubts.

However, began to show a silent hostility against her sister.

There were tolerated up then his enthusiasm for the homeland of her husband because he considered
most important the bonds of family rivalries nation. By the fact that Desnoyers was Karl French
and German, she was not going to fight with Elena.

But this feeling soon faded tolerance. Her son was in danger ... That all Hartrott die before July
would receive the slightest injury!

... Participated in warlike sentiments of his daughter, recognizing it as a talent to appreciate
the event. He wanted to see carried to reality all fantastic stab Chichi.

Fortunately, "the romantic" went before externalize this antipathy. Passed afternoon outside
the home. Then, returning, was repeating views and news of friends his family unknown.

Don Marcelo was indignant spies still living hidden in Paris.

What mysterious world frequented his sister? ...

Suddenly announced he was leaving the next morning: I had a passport for Switzerland and then would head
to Germany.

It was time to return to the side of yours, very grateful the benefits of the family ... And Desnoyers
drove away with aggressive irony. Greetings to von Hartrott, wished him a visit as soon as possible
in Berlin.

One morning, Dona Luisa, instead of entering the church of the Place Victor Hugo, continued to
rue de la Pompe, flattered by the idea of ​​seeing the study. It
seemed that this was to get in touch with your child.

It was a pleasure again, more intense look at his picture or read his last letter.

Argensola expected to find the friend of good advice. He knew that continuing to live in the
study. Twice he had gone to see her on the stairs, as in the past,
but she was absent.

Going up the elevator, her heart throbbed with a speed of pleasure and anguish. You happened to the
good lady, with some shame, that must have felt something like 'women crazy 'when missing for
the first time to his duties.

Her tears came freely to be in, that room whose furniture and paintings
reminded him away.

Argensola ran from the door to the back of the room, agitated, confused,
greeting her with phrases Welcome and objects, while stirring.

A woman's coat was dropped on a couch deleted by an oriental fabric, a hat with flowers was flying with
his hand to hide in a corner.

Doña Luisa thought he saw in the hollow of a curtain women's shirt fleeing, being transparent
pink nakedness.

On the stove, two bowls and toast denouncing waste double breakfast. These painters! ... Like his
son! And was moved to think low life of the director in July.

- My respected Dona Luisa ... Dear Madame Desnoyers ...

He spoke French and he cries, looking at the door where he had gone white flutter and pink. Trembled
at the thought that the hidden companion zealous incur errors committed with an untimely appearance.

Then
they spoke of the soldier. The two were communicating their news.
Doña Luisa repeated almost verbatim paragraphs of his letters, re-read
many times. Argensola declined modestly to teach texts of their own.
The two friends used an epistolary style that would have blushed to
the good lady.

- A courageous - he said proudly, considering the
acts of his own partner - a true hero and I, Madame Desnoyers, I understand
some of this ... His bosses know how to appreciate ...

July was a
sergeant at the two months of campaigning. The captain of his company
and other officers the regiment belonged to the circle of fencing
where he had obtained so many victories.

- What a race! - Continued
-. It is young people who come to the higher grades, such as generals
of the Revolution ... And what of exploits!

The soldier was only
slightly mentioned in his letters some of his acts, indifference of
living accustomed to danger and appreciated his comrades as a throw.
But the bohemian the exaggerated, lauded as if they were the most
climactic events of the war. Had taken an order through a hellish
fire, dropped dead after three messengers without to fulfill the same
request. He had jumped the first to attack and saved many trenches
with bayonets in hand to hand shock, to many comrades. When his bosses
needed a trustworthy man, invariably say: "That call Sergeant Desnoyers."

I
said as if he had witnessed, as if he had just returned from the war,
and Dona Luisa shaking, crying tears of joy and fear at the thought
of the glories and dangers of your child. Argensola He had the gift
of touching, by the vehemence with which he related things.

Believed
that enthusiasm should thank both showing some interest in the person
of panegyrist ... What had he done recently? ...

- I, madam, I have
been where he belonged. I have not moved from here. I witnessed the
"place" Paris.

Protested in vain that his reason for the inaccuracy
of this term. Influenced by his readings about the war in 1870, called
"place" to operations together to Paris for During the Battle of the
Marne.

Modestly pointed to a framed diploma of gold as on the piano,
with the a tricolor background. It was a role that was sold on the
streets: a certificate of residence in the capital during the week
of danger. He had filled in the blanks with their names and qualities
and at the foot containing the signatures of two residents of the
rue de la Pompe: A bartender and a friend the concierge. Maurice Denis' canvas of a spring procession, in just a few silvery
tones, is really lovely; the large number of decorations by him, all around on the second line,
scarcely comes up to the beauty of this small canvas.

The French representation deserves much credit for a great number of reasons, not least for
an astounding versatility, always accompanied by technical excellence.

Italy

Going over into the Italian galleries, the first impression is that while there are certain
groups of pictures of a very high order, the general standard of this section is not quite
so high as in the French Department. The Italians seem to have the advantage over the French
in regard to the selection of a background for their galleries. They made no such mistake as
putting a Pullman car floor pattern on the wall, and the general effect is one of calmness.
As in the French section, the work of the modern painter seems superior to sculptured work
of the same period. The work of Tito and of Mancini, among the painters, stands out in this
Italian collection.

Gallery 21.

Tito, whose work can be found in a group of five pictures in this gallery, has a very pronounced
decorative sense, which he employs with great ease in a group of five most excellent pictures.
To students of technical procedure his work is worthy of study. His under-painting is done
in tempera, and sometimes the complete work, as in the cattle picture, is done in this medium,
which, by an application of varnish, is then transformed into an oil. The most interesting
pictures in his group of five are the two on the right of his wall. The mythological subjects
underlying both canvases have a classic note, but their refreshing colour scheme removes these
pictures from any classic affiliation. The woodland scene, enlivened by a few hilarious centaurs
pursuing nymphs, is tremendously sure in handling and very gorgeous in the many golden browns
and greens which control the colour scheme. The kneeling Venus alongside is unusually alluring
in its blue and gold tones, and is one of the really fine pictures in the exhibition. While
the Venus and the Centaurs are the backbone of the Italian section, Tito's "Blue Lady" is very
chic and, as a colour arrangement of blue-blacks and flesh colour, most decorative. The canvas
in the center, evidently belonging to an older period of the artist, has nothing of the direct
method of the accomplished master, although in composition it has a certain bigness. Tito's
art has the full and rich expression of an original personality.

The landscapes in this gallery, of which there are a goodly number, are all typically Italian
in their artificiality of colour and in a certain sweetness which makes them lose in one's
estimation the longer one studies them. Clever as they are technically, they do not convince
and they do not reflect a thorough knowledge of the spirit of outdoors. All one admires in
the Barbizon men - the lyric feeling of a Corot or the more dramatic note of a Rousseau - is
missing in the modern Italian landscape as seen in these pictures. They are flippant in their
catchy technique and in the absence of any thought.

Gallery 22.

This room is dominated by three portraits by Antonio Mancini, of unusual cleverness and very
fine psychological characterization. Mancini's work grows on one. While seeming at first rather
loose and superficial, these portraits disclose on more intimate study a fine constructive
quality. They are not particularly interesting in colour; as a matter of fact they are very
monochromatic. Their appeal is based on an intensely serious quality of studious experimentation,
which a very sketchy technique cannot hide. To the left of the three Mancinis hangs a simple
picture of large proportions called "Maternity," by Pietro Gaudenzi. This is one of those modern
interpretations of the birth of Jesus which appeals by the individualistic note. The picture
is sympathetic by reason of its restriction to a few simple facts. No doubt it will fail to
receive a wide appreciation, since sociologically any picture of its type disclosing human
life under poverty-stricken conditions is rarely approved by the public. Nevertheless one of
the greatest of all stories is, with feeling and restraint alike, well rendered on this canvas.

On the opposite wall Arturo Noci has a very striking interior. There is nothing tricky about
this most effective canvas. The result is simply and directly attained by good, sound painting.
The red curtain in the distant room is a trifle raw and refuses somewhat to take its place
in the picture. Two landscapes on this wall deserve mention for their fine skies and their
decorative note. Giuseppe Carosi's little landscape with the oxen is so much better than the
one below by the same artist that it is hard to believe both were done by the same man. "La
Valle dell' Aniene," by Dante Ricci, is big in feeling, well painted, and unquestionably one
of the best landscapes in the Italian section.

Gallery 23.

The east gallery is almost entirely given over to sculpture, with one exception which is notable
so far as the dear public is concerned - a painting, "The Arch of Septimius Severus," by Luigi
Bazzani. I cannot fathom why Luigi Bazzani should go to all this trouble in trying to imitate
a photograph when the result over which he so painfully laboured could be done by any good
photographer for less than five dollars. It seems to me an absolutely futile thing to try to
represent something in a medium very badly chosen for this particular stunt. A stunt it is,
and always will be, no matter how much we admire the painstaking drawing and the infinite care
involved. Texturally the canvas is all wrong, because the sky, the stone, everything in the
picture, looks like glass and not like the various things it is intended to represent. However,
it is a wonderful piece of patience - so much should be said for it.

Millet's man with the hoe sitting down is the strongest piece of sculpture in this gallery.
The figure doubtless belongs to an older school, as its discolorations as well as its technical
treatment indicate. Alongside the rest of the things in this small room it is, in spite of
being carried somewhat too far, very forceful and convincing. No matter whether the man succumbed
to the dreariness of work or to the malarial fever of the Pontine swamps, all that has ever
been said about Millet's man and the terrible fatalism of his facial expression is found in
this piece of sculpture.

Rodin's influence is making itself felt in most of the other pieces in this room, as in the
Vedani kissing pair. The beautiful colour in the marble in this group puts much life into it.
Nicolini's work shows much breadth and a fine mastery of form. A frame of animal plaques by
Brozzi adds considerably to the artistic merit of the sculpture. A certain muscular mannerism
is evident in all of them, though not in the least disturbing.

Gallery 24.

Two portraits by Enrico Lionne of very repulsive colour are prominently hung in the east gallery,
without convincing one in the least of this artist's high standing at home. Cold and artificial,
they are not deserving of the prominent place they occupy. Near the door on the opposite wall
Vincenzo Yrolli presents a street musician and his audience in a canvas riotous with good colour.
The composition and the literal technical treatment of this work commend themselves highly
by good judgment and spontaneous handling. The two figure pictures by Pietro Chiesa, on an
adjoining wall to the right, ought to be remembered, and also an interior on the opposite wall
by Vianello.

Gallery 25.

In the last of the Italian galleries, on the west wall, we observe the unusual spectacle of
a whole family of artists distinguishing itself in a group of pictures. There is Beppe Ciardi,
the father; Guglielmo, the son; and Emma, the daughter. All of their pictures are conspicuous
for their saneness and big feeling. The father, Beppe, with the center canvas, has not the
breadth and bigness that is so typical of both the son's pictures of similar subjects. The
skies in the younger man's pictures are particularly fine. The daughter's single canvas, on
the left, to me seems even better than those of both father and brother. A certain imaginative
quality, shown in this big formal garden, constitutes Emma Ciardi's superiority over the rest
of the family. On the whole the showing of this family is excellent in every way.

The landscapes in this gallery are far above those mentioned in the Tito gallery. In fact there
are so many other good pictures that a mere mention of names must suffice. From the Ciardi
group on toward the right, Guido Marussig's "Walled City", Italico Brass' "Pontoon Bridge",
and particularly Scattola's "Venice" are all worthy of comment. Scattola's picture is very
sensitively studied, discreetly painted and full of the poetry of a summer night. Before leaving
the Italian section, Mentessi's big imaginative architectural study should be appreciated.
It will crystallize the visitor's opinion of the general excellence of Italy's contribution
to the exhibition.

As a matter of racial tradition, and not so much because of similarity of standards, we are
almost obliged to continue our investigations into the other nations most closely allied with
the Latin people, of Southern Europe and elsewhere. There is much room to believe that in a
contemporaneous art exhibition the Paris influence should make itself felt in more than one
way. Paris, after all, is the Mecca of all art students, particularly of the foreign Latin
countries. The technical superiority of the French school of painting has for years caused
an influx of foreign students into Paris, who are now giving us, in such national sections
as those of Portugal, Argentina, Uruguay, Cuba, and the Philippine Islands, the result of this
contact. It will easily be seen that unless a distinct national outlook, based on scenery,
climate, history, and tradition generally, is added to the mere technical performance, no matter
how clever, a national art can hardly develop. So we find that with all the good intentions
in the art of any of the countries mentioned, very little typical national expression is brought
out. In choice of subject and colour scheme the art of all of these countries is very much alike.

Portugal

The Portuguese section does not present any great painter such as Spain, for instance, has
produced in Sorolla or Zuloaga, though both seem to be very much admired by all Latin painters,
as well as by some of the Germanic artists, as a certain canvas of a Dutch lady in the Holland
section will demonstrate.

Nudes are still in vogue, or rather naked women, and probably will be as long as the sale of
strong drink needs to be increased by the kind of creation commonly known as the saloon picture.
There is surely nothing nobler than the truly idealized interpretation of the human figure
by artistic means, but the purposely sensuous nude is becoming rather a bore. Painting flesh
is one of the most difficult of all things, particularly as to the correct texture, but there
ought to be a limit in the production of such a type of picture as the one by Veloso Salgado
in the Portuguese section.

Here a great variety of subjects is treated, mostly with entirely too much realism. Photographic
truthfulness is not the function of painting, because, first of all, the medium will not allow
it without losing a certain quality indicating the fact that it is painting; and secondly,
art can only be an approximation anyhow, and it should carry its point by forceful and convincing
suggestion rather than by a tightly rendered photographic fact. The great pictures are first
those of a strong suggestive quality and, secondly, those possessing a certain something the
artist calls design - meaning thereby a more or less arbitrary arrangement of form and colour
effects which will please the eye. The idea of design has not struck the Portuguese artist
as yet; at least it is not apparent in the pictures of that section. The technical excellence
of their work is uniform and in some cases very creditable, particularly in the many small
canvases by Senhor de Sousa Lopes, the art commissioner of his country.

Continuing in the western gallery of the Portuguese section, directly opposite the nude referred
to, an outdoor sewing circle by José Malhoa arouses interest. The outdoor quality in this canvas
is very pronounced, and the gay enlacement of the luxuriant wistaria with the orange trees
in the distance, together with the multi-coloured ensemble of children, make for a lovely effect.
The middle gallery doubtless holds Portugal's most important claims upon artistic distinction,
in the group of three portraits and two still-lifes by Columbano. The three portraits are unusually
dignified and psychologically suggestive enough to show that the painter was not interested
in exterior facts alone. The portrait of the bearded gentleman in the middle is fine, though
somewhat academic in colour. The two little still-lifes wedged in between the larger portraits
are exquisite in every way, and make up for a lot of superficialities found in this section.
All around in this gallery, in more than a dozen sketches from Spain and Italy, Sousa Lopes
shows fine ability in the handling of paint and great power of observation. All of these apparently
recent things by Senhor Lopes are far more enjoyable than a huge "Pilgrimage", which, while
well painted, is too scattered. The unity of feeling in the work of Columbano is much more
necessary in a canvas of this size than in a small sketch. (Rembrandt's famous "Nightwatch"
and Velasquez's "Surrender of Breda" illustrate this point very well.) Malhoa's well-painted
interior called "The Native Song" has more of this desirable feeling of oneness, which may
be due to the fact that it deals with an indoor setting, while de Sousa Lopes' "Pilgrimage"
in the adjoining gallery presents a far more difficult problem in the reflected and glaring
light effect of a southern country. He saw hundreds of fallen men, saw horses running treading guts. The harvest
of death had not been for sheaves: whole field was smooth with sickle-one punch. And if the
batteries in front divined the disaster, stepped meanwhile the fire, sending a rain of shells.
Fell on all sides. Beyond the castle, at the end of the park, opened a crater in the woods that vomited
whole logs. The projectiles pulled from their graves to the dead buried yesterday.

Those who had not kept throwing down the wall openings. Then they got up to precipitation. About
arming the bayonet, pale, her lips tightened and a brightness of madness in the eyes, others turned
their back, running toward the park exit, ignoring the cries of the officers and to the revolver
shots made against the fugitives.

All this happened with dizzying speed, as a nightmarish scene. Across the wall sounded like the
hum rising tide. He heard screaming, he thought he heard voices hoarse and discordant singing the
Marseillaise. The guns worked with speed, as machines sewing. The attack was about to get stuck again
by the furious resistance. The Germans, mad with rage, threw and threw. In a gap appeared red
kepi, legs of the same color trying to pass on the rubble. But the vision faded instantaneously
under the spray guns. The attackers should fall in heaps on the other side of the wall.

Desnoyers did not know with certainty how the mutation was performed. Suddenly he saw the red trousers
within the park. Passed with irresistible jump over the wall, slid down the gaps, fund came
from the woods by invisible entries. Soldiers were small, square, sweaty, with his coat unbuttoned.
And mixed with them in the clutter load, handles African devil's eyes and foaming mouths,
wide breeches Zouaves, hunters blue uniform.

German officials wanted to die. With his sword held high, after having exhausted the shots of their
guns, they advanced against the assailants, followed by the soldiers who have obeyed them. There
was a crash, a hodgepodge. The old man thought the world had fallen into silence. The cries of the
combatants, the encontrón of bodies, the din of arms, not represented anything after the guns
had fallen silent. He saw men stuck in the belly at the end of a rifle, while a red tip sticking
out through your kidneys, butts in high falling like hammers opponents embraced rolling on
the floor, pretending mastered with kicks and bites. Gone are the mustard-colored breasts, only saw
color behind the fleeing toward the exit of the park, filtering through the trees, falling in
mid-career hit by bullets. Many of the attackers wanted to pursue the fugitives and could not,
engaged in rude jerks release with a bayonet of a body that held
in agonizing spasms.

Soon found Mr. Marcelo in the midst of these fatal crashes, jumping like a child shaking hands,
shouting loudly. Then he woke again, bearing in his arms dusty head of a young officer looked
at him in amazement. Maybe you thought a fool to receive his kiss, to hear their incoherent words,
to receive on their cheeks a rain of tears.

He kept crying when the officer came off rude shove him ... needed to vent after many days of quiet
agony: Vive la France!

His men were already at the park entrance. Ran ahead with a bayonet in monitoring of the last remnants
of the German battalion that escaped into the town. A group of riders spent on the road. Dragons
were coming for extreme persecution. But his horses were exhausted, only the fever of victory, which
seemed to be transmitted from men the beasts, and held his trot forced and painful. One of
these riders were stopped by the park entrance. The horse eagerly devoured a few weeds, while
the man stood hunched in his chair as if asleep. Desnoyers touched
on one hip, he wanted to wake him, and immediately rolled to the opposite
side. He was dead, guts hanging out of his abdomen.
If all the pottery, rugs and furniture said to have come from distinguished artists and from
even more distinguished circles of ownership, mostly palaces of the Ming dynasty, were enumerated,
there would be nothing left to have come from the atmosphere of the ordinary Oriental. The
Japanese and Chinese are taking quick advantage of the guilelessness of the western lover of
art, and much that is to be seen in either one of the two sections is rather a concession to
western demand than to native Oriental talent. Only the special student of oriental art will
consent to learn enough of the Japanese or Chinese language to familiarize himself with any
other than the commonly known artists of these countries, and all that one can do within the
frame of an international exhibition is to single out those things which appeal on the basis
of certain artistic principles which are the same the world over. To go into the many religious
and other sentimental considerations which are sometimes the basic justification for some very
extraordinary fantastic things, charmingly exploited by certain art dealers, is impossible
within the scope of this book.

Japan

The Japanese people, at the extreme southern end of the Palace of Fine Arts, have a representative
show of painted screens, of extraordinary beauty. Anyone, without being in the least familiar
with the fauna and flora of Japan, must admire the tremendously acute power of observation
and surety of drawing which made these designs possible. The two sixfold screens by Taisei
Minakami on the east wall of the eastern gallery are probably the most magnificently daring
examples of modern Japanese art. To the student of design they offer a most stimulating opportunity
for study. Acutely observed, their tropical subjects, very daring in colour, are exhaustively
beautiful. The spacing of the design, the relative distribution of the few daring colours against
a gold background of wonderful texture, combine in a picture of great vitality. The art of
no people is so scientific as that of these people, whose every effort, no matter how insignificant,
is technically always sound. Our modern art schools could very profitably imitate the Japanese
principle of teaching their young students how to do a thing well and of leaving the choice
of subjects to their own inclination.

Almost opposite, a vertical composition of a lumber camp on a mountainside, by Bunto Hayashi,
attracts by an unusual subject very descriptively rendered. The picture belongs to the older
school, not so much for the lack of colour, which is often erroneously identified with the
older Japanese works, as for a certain quality of less decoration and of more detailed treatment
of the drawing. The drawing is, of course, the important element in all Japanese art, since
all of their work has to yield a great deal of pleasure of the intellectual kind at close distance,
on account of the smallness of Japanese dwellings, which keeps the owner of the picture in
close proximity with his artistic possessions. A picture of crows in a rainstorm, on the same
wall, on the right side of the southern door, and also a very characteristic study of some
kind of cedar, with birds on the left of it, give one an excellent idea of the astonishing
variety of material that the Japanese artist successfully controls.

In two irregularly shaped triangular galleries adjoining, Shodo Hirata maintains the standard
of the first gallery, not to forget, either, Toyen Oka with his oleander bush and the cat on
the picturesque fence. Tesshu Okajima's hollyhock screens are marvels of decorative simplicity,
while Kangai Takakura uses a washday as a motive for a double twofold screen decoration. The
last two artists can both be found in the second irregular triangular gallery, opposite the
first one mentioned. The central octagonal gallery also is devoted to screen pictures, done
by means of embroidery. Some of them, largely those of native design, are successful in really
giving the quality of the subjects depicted, but cannot grow enthusiastic over two unduly protected
screen embroideries, a German marine and an English pair of lions, done in silk. They are both
as hard as nails and devoid of any real suggestion of the spirit which animates either water
or lions in reality. If it is so great an achievement as we are often asked to believe to do
certain things in badly chosen material, then why not try to reproduce Rafael's "Sistine Madonna"
with thumbtacks? Most such attempts to find an agreeable substitute for the various painting
media are merely silly.

Sharing the hospitality of the cases with the embroidery pictures are the wood sculptures,
some of which are intensely interesting, as, for instance, the "Man with the Spade." The underlying
idea of cubism is very intelligently embodied in this small figure, without any affectation.
The many small woodblock prints to be seen here do credit to the reputation which Japanese
artists have long enjoyed in this special field.

The remaining smaller galleries are given over to replicas of the originals of older art, modern
sculpture, and painting in the modern style. Why the modern Japanese artists want to divorce
themselves from the traditions of their forefathers seems incomprehensible. There is not a
thing in the western style in this gallery of Japanese painting that comes anywhere near giving
one the artistic thrills won by their typically Japanese work. I think the sooner these wayward
sons are brought back into the fold of their truly Oriental colleagues, the better it will
be for the national art of Japan, the most profound art the world has ever seen.

China

The first impression of the Chinese section is disappointing. There is no real life in any
of the work here displayed, and most of it consists of modern replicas - some of very excellent
quality - of their oldest and best art treasures. The Chinese seem to be absolutely content
to rest upon their old laurels, the fragrance of which can hardly ever be exhausted; but nevertheless
that does not relieve them of the obligation of working up new problems in a new way. There
is so much religious and other sentiment woven into their art that to the casual observer much
of the pleasure of looking at the varied examples of applied art is spoiled by the necessity
of having to read all of the longwinded stories attached to many of them. The freshness of
youth, the spirit of progress, which enliven the Japanese section, are entirely missing in
this display, which seems like a voice from the past - a solemn monument to an old civilization
without any connection with the New Republic and its modern pretensions. I am afraid China
is laboring under conditions of internal strife which are detrimental to the development of
any artistic expression.

Sweden

Of all the foreign nations represented, with the exception of Japan and China, none possesses
so distinct a national character as the art of Sweden. I cannot help expressing my personal
conviction that it is the best national section in the whole exhibition, showing, as it does,
not merely easel painting, but also many splendid examples of so-called applied art, which
often permits one to get a deeper insight into the standard of art of a people than easel painting
alone. It is true that certain examples of painting in the French or American sections are
more appealing to us, but in the light of the national characteristics of the people and the
country, Swedish art has a very definite quality, consistently shown. Their work has a robustness
which has nothing to do with the salon aspect of the art of southern Europe, particularly France.
In fact it is almost opposed to the art of the Romanic races, and distinctly apart from the
art of Germany. It is fortunate Sweden could make such a splendid showing without the support
of the art of such a man as Anders Zorn, who, while decidedly Swedish, is after all much of
a cosmopolitan painter, with all the earmarks of an international training. The art of the
most artistic of all people, that of the French, is often said to have a decadent note. In
comparison, Swedish art may be said to be absolutely robust, healthy, and vigorous, without
being coarse. To those who pretend to find a certain physical brutality in Swedish art, I should
like to point out that the most delicate pictures in the entire exhibition - those of John
Bauer - are the chief asset of the Swedish exhibit. The great variety of the work in this section
makes it very interesting, and permits, as said before, close insight into many phases of modern
art.

The most pronounced individualities in the collection, covering all fields, are Bruno Liljefors,
Gustav Fjaestad, Carl Larsson, John Bauer, Mr. and Mrs. Boberg, David Edström, Mas-Olle, and
others too numerous to mention. Bruno Liljefors for many years has been known internationally
as one of the best of animal painters, and particularly of sea fowl. He has had the experience
common to many great artists, of working himself up from very academic beginnings to a wonderful
personality of marked freedom. His canvas of the nine wild swans is perhaps the biggest single
picture in the entire Exposition. It is immediately suggestive of a decoration, and to think
of it in that sense, as a part of a wall seen from a great distance, makes one almost tremble
with expectation. This truly great picture is a rhythmic masterpiece. The placing of these
graceful swans is marvelously well studied from the point of view of design, yet none the less
does an expression of reality animate these divine birds. There is something about swans which
puts them even above the king of birds, the eagle. I can conceive of men killing any animal,
but the thought of one of these noble birds falling victim to man's perverse desires is incomprehensible
to me. Of the other pictures by the same artist, the flock of wild geese, standing in the shallow
water of a stony beach, carries all the conviction of being well studied which applies to any
of Liljefors' pictures. The eagles and the seagulls are scarcely as interesting as the swans.
Liljefors is never better than when he depicts flying birds - and fly they do. There is never
any doubt about it. Those swans are actually in the air, and moving. A certain disagreeable
fuzziness in the skies of all of his pictures interferes somewhat with their full enjoyment.

Of the other painters Mrs. Boberg should be mentioned next. She is the wife of Ferdinand Boberg,
the architect of the Swedish Building, who himself, as a true artist excelling in a number
of things, has a splendid collection of etchings in the long black and white gallery adjoining
the Liljefors' room. Mrs. Anna Boberg's pictures, in a very small gallery at the eastern end
of this section, are not advantageously hung. Her work is so decorative, and so painted for
distant effect, that to see it close at hand is disappointing. The eleven of her pictures are
unusual in subject and for that reason win less sympathy than they deserve. All of them were
painted on a trip she made with her husband to the Lofoden islands, and when one considers
the proverbial coldness of the Arctic seas, her interpretations seem marvelous in their beauty
and richness of colour. A study of their titles in the catalogue seems hardly necessary for
understanding of their meaning, and I for one am perfectly satisfied to feast on the gorgeous
colouring and the great veracity they possess. Some of them are already sold, a most surprising
thing when one considers that to most people a picture actually executed in three dimensions
is seldom considered meritorious. I do think that while the physical width and height of Mrs.
Boberg's pictures are governed by conventional considerations, a little less depth of paint
might accomplish the same solid appearance without making one feel like slipping sideways past
them into the next gallery for fear of knocking off a few lumps of paint.

In the adjoining gallery, a somewhat larger one on the east, Gustav Fjaestad's very fine decorations
form what we are in the habit of calling a "one-man show." Mr. Fjaestad certainly has the decorative
feeling, whether he paints a picture or designs a rug. In fact all of his pictures look like
designs for rugs. And why not? If a wall rug is a decoration, a picture should be one in just
the same way. It is hard to single out among the many good examples the best one, and it may
be left to the taste of the individual, who among nothing but good things cannot make a poor
choice. The time will come again when our artists will find it honourable and profitable to
apply their talents to utilitarian art, as does Fjaestad, and the interrelated activities of
the Swedish in both fine and applied arts afford a lesson which is by no means new. It is the
basic condition on which the art of the Renaissance flourished that develops men like the Swedes.

There is a big difference between Liljefors and Mrs. Boberg, or again between her and Fjaestad,
but not any greater than between all of these artists and John Bauer. John Bauer's paintings
are exquisite, and even such abused adjectives as "sweet" and "delicate" are not out of place
when applied to his work. I hope we have some enlightened person among us who can afford to
buy the whole batch of them, and do it quickly, before any more of them are sold singly. It
takes more time to enjoy these little fairy tales than one can afford to give to them. They
possess everything a good illustrative painting ought to have. A wealth of ideas imaginatively
represented, good drawing, and intimate feeling tell of the keen pleasure the artist must have
had in producing these gems.

As an illustrator, though very different, Carl Larsson appeals in a comprehensive group of
pictures in another gallery. Carl Larsson's extraordinary resourcefulness in getting everything
he needs out of the confines of his home has for years been the cause of his great popularity
abroad, and in his thirty-three cheerful drawings he discloses his entire home life, in all
the variety of happenings which makes married existence a success. His drawing is faultless,
his sense of colour supple and refreshing, and his ability to make such extensive use of the
relatively narrow atmosphere of his home without exhausting it proves his caliber. Larsson
has a roommate of great distinction and modesty in Oscar Bergman, who has contributed some
twenty tender bits of northern landscapes and marines. They are reminiscent of the Japanese,
although it becomes almost foolish to think of the Japanese every time someone develops a capacity
for acute observation and drawing. Bergman's little lighthouse is particularly convincing and,
like most of these things, should not be allowed to return to the artist.

I shall probably have to retrench in attention to the American section if I keep on giving
pages to this section. But in spite of their great merit, the work of Kallstenius, Schultzberg,
Carlberg, and Osslund will have to go with only meager reference. Osslund's pictures are somewhat
startling at first, owing to a complexity of technical treatment. He does not seem to be working
in the right medium, for I believe his Japanesque landscapes could be far more sympathetically
presented in watercolour. Of the group comprising his work, his "Waterfall", "Summer Evening",
and "Evening on Angermann Land" are very fascinating. Mas-Olle's portraits are interesting
not only for good technical painting but also for fine characterization. His portrait of an
old peasant of Dalecarlia is almost faultless. Near the Mas-Olle portrait Herman Lindquist
has a "Sunny April Day" of unusual poetic claim. Schultzberg's big sunlit winter scenes hardly
need recommendation to justify their increasing popularity. Alfred Bergstrom's poetic landscapes
add more interest, in the small adjoining room on the east. Marine pictures by Hullgren are
the only contributions in that field, but quite sufficient to maintain the general standard
of excellence. The drunken man seated at a café table is psychologically interesting. As an
object lesson to discourage the consumption of liquor it is the most effective picture I have
ever seen, and certain interests would do well to buy it for that reason alone, not to speak
of the relief this would afford. Ernst Küsel's animal pictures, opposite John Bauer's delightful
group, seem quite out of place. His ducks and the goats are satisfactory enough, but I wish
he had to live with that calf picture and see it every day. Küsel is undoubtedly humourously
inclined, without knowing proper limitations.

The sculpture of the Swedes is of the same unusual excellence that commands so much respect
in their other work. Edstrom easily outranks his fellow-artists in his group of naturalistic
and conventional architectural heads, in the Liljefors gallery, while in the long and narrow
adjoining gallery a multitude of excellent etchings, drawings, and black and white work compel
mention. They hardly need any explanation, since in their very character they readily convey
their meaning. One could dwell at greater length upon this most representative of all national
displays, but I fear that it would have to be done at the expense of the American section,
which hospitality has already placed under a disadvantage.

Holland

The Netherlands representation is conspicuous for its conservative note, together with the
absence of any single picture which might unduly excite one by its merit. I do not wish to
prejudice the art lover who strolls into this well appointed section, but coming from Sweden,
as we do, so to speak, since it is Sweden's next door neighbor, it gives one rather a shock.
Most of the Dutch pictures are good, almost too good, in their academic conventional repetition
of the timeworn subjects we have been in the habit of seeing for the last twenty years. Fresh air circulates freely, the sun lights up every room the water is pure
and healthy, especially furniture and beds boast exquisite cleanliness: the innocent have
vigilantes who care as nurses and teachers who seek to do into a ray of intellectual light in
those hard soft spots. Sometimes you do that, and the geek gradually be born to a higher life.
But more important than working on guard against evil to repair the existing. Infested huts,
sometimes so picturesque in landscape, must disappear for the comfortable and healthy homes replaced.
Should air enter freely and light in all human habitations. It should be noted everywhere good
hygiene for the body, united to perfect moral dignity. Thus acquire the mountain in several
generations a complete immunity from all these diseases that are now degraded to such a large number.
Then his people will be worthy of their surroundings, may provide satisfactorily covered mountains
and as the Greeks say, "These are our ancestors, and we like them. "

CHAPTER XIX

# The worship of mountains #

The worship of mountains between us there is still more alive than believe it. Many Sometimes
a villager, the discovery of the head, I noted the sun with your finger and told me solemnly:
"He is our God." And I also (I hardly dare say), more than one Once, looking at the August peaks
that dominate valleys and plains, I felt ready to classify them candidly
divine.

I would one day pass peacefully by a slope, obstructed by loose stones. Encallejonábase there
the wind and I was the face, bringing me with every breath a mist of rain and snow melted. Ashen
veil hiding the rocks and I could only make out vague masses at intervals black and threatening,
according to the thickness of the fog came up and away alternately. Found myself transfixed with
cold, sad, moody. Suddenly he made me look up clarity reflected by numerous drops. He had torn
the water cloud and snow over my head. The blue sky appeared to me bright and protruding up above
the serene summit of the mountain. The snow, embroidered on the edges of rocks as with delicate
arabesques, Argentina glowed with sun glare and fringed with gold trim. Were pure contours
of the top and clean as the statue drew a light in the shade but pride pyramid seemed to be
completely off the ground. Quiet strong, steadfast in his rest, seemed to float in the sky.
Belonged to another world and not to this planet shrouded in clouds and mists and in sordid rags.
At that appearance, I thought I see more than the abode of bliss, more than the Olympus, home
of the immortals. But a malicious tag closed again out where I had seen the mountain. I found
myself again from wind, snow and rain and consoléme to say, a God appeared to me!

At the origin of historic times, all peoples, simple children of a thousand heads, and looked toward the
mountains, saw them to the gods, or at least their thrones appearing and alternately hiding
under the veil of changing the veil. In those mountains saw almost all the origin of his race lived
there felt that their traditions and legends; there waiting for the future realization of their
ambitions and their dreams, hence assumed that El Salvador had to go down, the angel of glory or
of freedom. So important was the role high peaks in the life of nations, which could tell the story
of humanity the cult of the mountains. These are major milestones and stages positioned away
distance in the way of the people.

In the valleys of the great mountains of central Asia scholars say that was where those our ancestors,
to whom we owe the European languages ​​came to be established at a time tribes first learned,
in the southern base of the highest mountains in the world is where Indians live, those to whom their
ancient Aryan civilization provides a kind of right of primogeniture. Their songs of other times not
say with what feeling of worship celebrated the "eighty-four thousand mountains of gold" that are
bathed in light rise over forests and plains. For many, the enormous mountains of the Himalayas,
snow-capped summit of major rivers of ice, are the gods themselves in full possession of his strength
and his majesty. The Gaurisankar, whose apex pierces the sky, and the Chamalari, less high
but more massive, apparently, by their isolation, are doubly worshiped as the Great Goddess
linked to the Great God. Those are the bed of ice crystal and diamond; those clouds of purple and
gold are sacred veil around them. Above him is the god Siva, who destroys and creates: there
too the goddess Chama, the Gauri, who conceived and stop. It down the rivers, plants, animals
and men.

In that prodigious jungle epics and Hindustani traditions, others have sprouted legends relating to
the Himalayan mountains and the show we all live with life sublime, and as goddesses, and
as mothers of continents and peoples. Such is the poetic legend that describes the earth as
a great lotus flower whose petals are extended penúnculas on the ocean and whose stamens and
pistils are the mountains of Meru, generating all life. The glaciers, streams and rivers that
descend from the heights to lead the the beneficial land floods, are also living beings, gods
and goddesses side put to the lowly mortals of the plains in indirect relationship with the supreme
divinities They prevail over the clouds in the bright space.

Not only Mount Meru, the highest point on the planet, but also all the ranges, all India tops
were worshiped by the peoples living on its slopes and in her lap. Vindyah Mountains of Satpurah,
Aravalli, of Nilagherry, all had their admirers. In the lowlands, where the faithful had no
mountains to look at, built temples that the streets in fanciful pyramids, huge chunks of granite,
representing the revered peaks of Mount Meru. Perhaps it was a similar feeling of adoration to
the great summits that pushed them to the ancient Egyptians build
the pyramids, artificial mountains rising to dominate the flat surface
of sand and silt.

The island of Ceylon, Lanka "the shining" blessed country which, according to legend East, were
sent the first men through God's mercy, after being expelled Paradise, also rises to the sky
sacred mountains. Such, among others, the isolated peak in the middle of the plains, the holy
city of Anaradjapura. Is the Mihintale. In stop the rock, twenty-two centuries ago, the flight
of Mahinda, the drive Indian was launched from the plains of the Ganges to attract the natives
to the religion of Budha. Today it has built a temple on top where you put your foot saint. Is high
and large Pagoda and yet such is the application of the pilgrims who have covered many times,
from bottom to top, with a tapestry of jasmine. A carbuncle, color of fire, shining at the
top of the monument, reflecting the distance to the sun, and that there was a rajah sent extending
from the top of the mountain to the plains of twelve miles carpet length for non blemished
feet of the faithful a land impure, from a unholy ground.

And yet, this mountain sacred Mihintale is not as glorious as the peak of Adam, sailors are in
the midst of the waves as they approach the island of Ceylon. The footprint of a giant foot
belonging, say, a man ten feet high, is printed in the rock, in the end that crowns the summit. That
mark, as Muslims and Jews, is the Adam, the first man who climbed the peak to see the vast
land, vast forests, the mountains and plains, the banks and the Ocean with its islands and reefs.
According to Ceylon and Indian, not a man but a God who left a trace of their passage. According
to Brahmins, the god Siva was dominant: according to Buddhists, was Buddha, according to the Gnostics
of the early Christian centuries, was the Lord. When the Portuguese landed on the island Ceylon
and conquered, degraded (so to speak) the mountain, which, after the manner of think, could
not compare to the Holy Land: they believe that the mysterious signal is footprint of St. Thomas or
of a former missionary, apostle secondary, Caudaces eunuch. Even less respectful, an Armenian, Moses
Chorene, enthusiastic for his noble mountain of Ararat, is at the top of the peak of the footprint
of Adam Satan, the eternal enemy. Finally, travelers Englishmen, more numerous every day, every
year to climb the holy mountain, believe that "Divine footprint" is nothing but a hole vulgar, grossly
rounded. Truth is that such foreigners are regarded with contempt by the pilgrims going to
believe prostrate to the top, devoutly to kiss the track and to deposit their offerings in
the priest's house. Everything seems testimony to the authenticity of the miracle. A few meters
under the a spring peak flows: the staff of God made him emerge from the soil. Many trees grow
on the slopes, and these trees (as they please the faithful), bow their branches to the summit
to vegetate and grow adoring. The rocks of the mountain is scattered with stones precious:
they are the tears that flowed from the eyes of God saw the suffering and crimes of men. How
have to believe in the miracle, seeing all these riches have given rise to the fabulous tales
of the Thousand and One Nights? The streams that run through the mountain will not crawl, as
our streams, despicable pebbles and sand carry powdered rubies, garnets and sapphires: the swimmer
of all among its waves can roll, like sirens on a bed of stones.

Far Eastern races whose civilization has followed up differently from people Aryan race, have also
worshiped mountains. The same in China and Japan than in India, high peaks hold temples dedicated
to the gods, or they are considered geniuses guardianship or vindictive. The people seeking
her story comes from these mountains divine by traditions and legends.

The mountains are the oldest historical China, because the rule is one of the Middle of the first
people who have come to the self-awareness, the first written his own story of a continuous mode.
Five are the sacred mountains that rise all in regions famous for its agriculture, industry,
the crowds that move in skirt or events that have occurred in their vicinity. The holy mountain,
that of Chan Tai-dominates all other vertices of the rich Chan-Tung Peninsula, between the
two gulfs the Yellow Sea. From the summit, which is reached by a paved road and steps open in
the rock, you can see, spread at the feet of the observer, the rich plains that runs through the
Hoang Ho, now running into one, now to another gulf, off with his thirst for water multitudes
of men outnumber swords in a field.

Emperor Chung climbed to the top four hundred thirty years, as reminiscent of classic country
records. Confucius also wanted to go, but the slope is very rough, the philosopher could not
handle it, and still teaches the place where he began the descent into the plain. All major gods
and geniuses are major temples and oratories in the holy mountain and the clouds, the sky, the Big
Dipper and Polaris. The ten thousand geniuses stop the flight there to survey the land and the
cities of men. "The wind of Tai-Chan is equal to the sky. It is the ruler of the world. Pick up
the clouds and send us rain. Decides births and deaths, misery, misfortune, glory and shame.
Of peaks that rise to heaven, is the most worth visiting. "So the pilgrims numerous flock there to
implore all of you, and the path is littered with caves where filthy beggars lie horrifying wounds
the passerby.

With more reason that the Chinese, because its volcanic mountains are a perfect beauty Thus,
the Japanese look to worship the snowy peaks. There is no idol in the world can be compared
to his magnificent Furiyama, to the "mountain simpa" which stands almost alone in the countryside,
covered under forests, snow clad top. Smoked at one time the volcano and lava and threw fire now
rests, but has at the archipelago numerous Sisters mountains still pouring rivers of fire in
the trembling earth. These mountains there is one, the most terrible, which is believed as an offering
to appease throwing thousands of Christians. It was thus in the New World, it is said also that he
wanted to calm the Monotombo, throwing in him to the priests who had dared to preach against
it, saying it was not such a God, but mouth of hell. On the other hand, volcanoes are often expected
to throw their victims: you know they find when you split the earth, spewing lakes of mud, covered
with ash whole provinces and make them die once the entire population of a country. That's enough
worship for all who bow to the force. The volcano swallows, then is God.

This man has taken the religion of the mountains (as all others), by various feelings of his
being. At the foot of the mountain, spewing lava, terror has prostrated with her face buried in the
dust in the thirsty fields, desire is the one who made you look pleading to the snow, mother
of streams: the appreciation has given those worshipers they found safe refuge in the valley or
on the steep hill, finally, admiration must have been men to dominate as it developed in them a sense
of the beautiful and even when I was asleep, in a state of instinct. And what is the mountain
no issues at once beautiful and safe havens, which is not terrible or beneficial and many sometimes
both together? The villages, walking through the world, could easily relate all their traditions
into the hill that dominated the horizon and to worship. At each station their long journey to
build a new church. At one time, the wandering tribes in the plateaus of Persia were always
emerge at dusk a mountain between the dusty plains: Mount Telesma was the divine 'Talisman'
which was to his worshipers in his travels around the world. And when, after a long migration, mountain
discerned in the distance was not deceptive mirage, but true summit with snow and rocks, who
would have doubted the journey made by God to accompany his people?

This is how the mountain, which tip received the refugees from the
flood, has continued to walk across continents.

Samaritan Pentateuch version holds that Noah's ark stopped at the peak of Adam, the other versions
say that the real peak was on Ararat, but Ararat what is that? Is that of any other mountain ú Armenia,
which have been found for any remains of the sacred pastors boat? For people everywhere claim
East that honor for the protective mountain whose waters irrigate their own fields. That is Mount
from which life came back down to earth, following the path of the snow and the course streams. No
tests have failed, of course, to establish the veracity of all these traditions. We found lots
of prairie petrified under the ice and the same rocks are found traces of those moldy "flood rings"
which, according our modern sages, are fossil ammonites. That's why more than one hundred mountains
of Persia, Syria, Arabia, Asia Minor has been suggested as the patriarch landing, second-parent
men. Greece also spoke of his Parnassus, whose stone thrown into the mud of the flood, became
men. Even in France there are mountains where the ark stood, one of those divine is Chamechaude
peaks near the Grande Chartreuse of Grenoble, another is Puy de Progne, dominant sources of
the Andes.

The myth is thus constant of the high peaks is where men are down. From these fastnesses, throne
of divinity, has the great voice out their duties dictated to mortals.

The God of the Jews lived then at the peak of Sinai, in clouds and lightning, and spoke with the
voice of lightning at people gathered in the plain. The same Baal Moloch and all bloodthirsty gods
of those peoples of the East appeared to the faithful at the top of the mountains. In Stony
Arabia, in the countries of Edom and Moab there is a height, a hill or a rock that is not supporting
its rough stone pyramid on whose altar shed blood to be suitable priests to God. Babel was
missing in the mountains, and replaced it with the famous temple that was going to heaven.
The poet has constructed this gigantic building, not as it was, but as people imagined.

The highest mountain, was a foundation stone for that granite wall.

        With his envious hatred of foreign
        cults, the Jewish prophets cursed more than once the "high places"
in which neighboring towns placed her idols, but they did not come
otherwise, and looked to the mountains to evoke the angels that was
helping: on a mountain raised its temple, also Elijah talking with
God on a mountain.

And when Galileo was transfigured and hovered in the uncreated light with the two prophets Moses
and Elijah from Mount Tabor was raised. When he died between two thieves, on top of a mountain
crucified him, and when he returns, according to prophecy, surrounded by saints and angels,
and attend the punishment of their enemies, so does a mountain, but when touched with the plant
break. Another mountain, another top ideal to hold a city of gold and diamonds will emerge in
Light space and live there always selected, hovering in the air around the peaks happy, well
above this land care and misfortune.

CHAPTER XX

# The Olympus and the gods #

Just as the glory of Greece imperceptible surpassed in brightness
to that of all the empires East and Olympus, the highest and beautiful
of the sacred mountains of the Hellenes, has come to be in the imagination
of people the mountain par excellence: no tops, or Meru, or those
of Elburs, Ararat or Lebanon, awakens in the human spirit so many
memories of grandeur and majesty.

Few have been, of course, so admirably situated to attract attention and serve as a signal to
the races that roamed the world. Placed in angle of the Aegean Sea and dominating all the
surrounding peaks from the middle of its height, saw Olympus sailors from huge distances. From
the plains of Macedonia, from rich valleys of Thessaly, from the mountains Othrys, Findo,
Bermi and Athos, is on the horizon dome and its three remaining "a thousand roughness" of which
Homer speaks. Fertility of fields called out in her lap to himself from all parties to the
crowds there were going to meet, and to mix them, and to kill each other. Finally, Olympus overlooking
the canyons that necessarily had to follow the tribes or armies on the march, from Asia to
Europe or from Greece to the barbarians of the North countries. It stands as a milestone military
the road that were then the nations.

Many other mountains of the Hellenic world to be glittering snow-name Olympus or light, but none
so much as deserved of Thessaly, the summit served throne to the gods.

And is that the same people had spent her childhood Hellenic national
in the valleys and plains, lying under the shadow of the great mountain.

From Thessaly came from the Greeks of Attica and the Peloponnese: there had been fighting with
monsters his early heroes and there his first poets, led by the voice of the muses Pierides,
had composed hymns and songs of victory and joy.

Flooding villages in remote regions, reminded the Greek tribes divine mountain in their cattle
had given them life and nourishment.

Almost all the major events of the mythical story that had been verified in Part of Greece, and
among them, the most important, which decided the control in heaven and earth. Olympus was
the citadel of choice for new gods, and camped around the ancient
deities, the Titans monstrous children of chaos.

Standing in the mountains Othrys, that take place in vast semicircle south, the Giants grabbed
huge rocks, mountains Whole and half flung against Olympus uprooted. To stand up above, heaped
Titans of old forest on the mountain that will serve as a pedestal, but the vast snowy always
dominated them and surrounded with dark clouds from which sprang the rays. Giants, fed with
the very forces of the earth, carrying the voice of the hurricane roars and arms the strength of
the storm, with its hundred hands threw the hail of random rocks, but struggled with the blind fury
of the elements against intelligent young gods. Succumbed, and under the rubble of the mountain
with them were flattened entire villages. Otherwise not the whims of kings have been because of
destruction of nations, as by mistake.
 Among others Jean McLane, Mr. Johansen's
wife, and Annie Lang excel in a certain breadth of style; while Mrs. Richardson charms by the
sympathetic rendering of the pride and happiness of the young mother. The composition of this
picture, while it is unusual, is successfully managed. The impression one gains from this large
gallery is most satisfying in every way. The many portraits done by men seen in various galleries
of the exhibition would scarcely make as good a showing in a group as the work of the women,
and it was very wise not to attempt it.

One-Man Rooms

An approach to the rest of the American section might be made through the one-man rooms, and
since we are on the south side, and for other perfectly good reasons - not the least, that
of importance - we might start with Whistler.

Gallery 28.

Whistler.

No gallery reflects so much the really serious artist, in his eternal struggle to express himself
simply and exhaustively in line, form, and colour, as does this Whistler group. A feeling of
dissatisfaction, expressed by many indications of experimentation and change, of searching
for the right line, is clearly indicated in all of these paintings. He often gives you a chance
to choose between a number of tantalizing forms and lines. It is very apparent that he set
himself a high, almost an unattainable standard, toward which he worked with varying success.
His emotions must have been constantly swinging between the greatest heights of joy and the
abyss of despair.

The numerous Whistlers in this gallery show him in many periods and many styles. On wall D,
at the lower right, a portrait of an auburn girl, one of his many fascinating models, shows
Whistler more as a pure painter than any of the other canvases. This doubtless belongs to the
period when he was under Courbet's influence. The richness of pure paint, dexterously applied,
is scarcely found in the many portraits on the same wall, in which a certain thinness of paint
is too much in evidence, no matter how distinguished and suggestive these canvases are. His
sense of composition, of the placing of areas of different tones and colour, is markedly evident
in all of his work, no matter how experimental and casual it may be. The "Falling Rocket" is
the most wonderful example of this quality of design. If it is true that it hung for weeks
upside down in the present owner's house, then most decidedly this fact speaks well for its
excellent quality of design, irrespective of its pictorial meaning. The many small sparks descending
rhythmically from an impenetrable sky are carefully considered in their relative position and
size so as to insure that feeling of pattern which he almost instinctively gave to everything
he did. This picture of the "Falling Rocket" is of particular interest as the picture which
made John Ruskin, the Slade Professor of Art at Oxford, accuse Whistler of flinging a pot of
paint at the face of the public and having the impudence of a coxcomb to ask two hundred guineas
for it. Surely this carefully and cleanly painted picture shows Whistler as hardly a flinger
of paint, and we can only rejoice over the kind fate which saved Mr. Ruskin from extending
his career into the present age of paint flingers, who, had they lived in his day, would have
proved fatal to the learned professor. The farthing damages which Whistler received in a mock
trial were scarcely as valuable as the universal admiration this picture receives.

There never was a painter who manipulated paint with more regard for the medium than did Whistler.
His portrait of Mrs. Milicent Cobden has a noble beauty of restraint. It is very sensitively
painted, and tender almost to the point of thinness. It fascinates in its subtle appeal, which
the observer is induced to supplement by his own emotion. This quality of subtlety is the one
attribute which makes his work so beloved by the artist and so difficult of understanding for
the layman, who, try as he may, is not equipped with sufficient technical insight to do Whistler's
paintings full justice. Uneven as his work is, as every painter admits, it will always be more
and more cherished by the profession and remain more or less of a mystery to the puzzled public,
who would like to follow this painter into the realm of his interests.

The six figural compositions on the opposite wall show Whistler as concerned with design pure
and simple, rather than meaning or psychological expression. They are beautiful for the fragrant
looseness of their spacing of delightful, tender areas of neutralized colour, emphasized here
and there by a stronger note of vermilion. Things like these express his attitude far more
than any other thing he ever did. They show his understanding of the fundamentals of painting
- a small part in the whole unity of beauty of which the world consists. His work as a painter
is, after all, negligible in comparison with the principles he preached by his many artistic
activities. His historical position, as time goes on and as his associates die, becomes more
and more mystical, and even at this moment his personality has assumed an almost mythological
character.

Gallery 93.

Twachtman.

It is not a far cry to Twachtman, who presents a peculiar combination of Whistlerian tonality
with the methods of the modern impressionist. His work is relatively high in key, and devoid
of any colour resembling black. The covered skies of early morning, before the breaking through
of the sun, are his chief motives. Snow plays also an important part in his work, which is
most suggestive in the tender beauty of the few values and colours it is composed of. There
is absolutely nothing of the sensational about his work. To most people of not sufficient interest
on first acquaintance, on better familiarity they yield to the serious student and sympathetic
lover of nature unlimited pleasure. His poetry is of the true sort, and in finished work like
"October", "View on the Brette", "Bridge in Spring", and "Greenwich Hills", he rises to a very
high level.

Manship's small statuettes are very effective features of this gallery. Their linear decorative
architectural quality has put Manship into the front rank of our younger men, and he will have
no trouble to maintain his place.

Gallery 89.

Tarbell.

In an adjoining gallery, Edmund Tarbell is much more striking, in a number of canvases containing
certain qualities, which easily account for the great popularity he justly enjoys as one of
the best of our American painters. To the student of pictures who does not care whether they
are well painted or not, they are intensely interesting subjects, reflecting the happy domestic
atmosphere of the painter's home, which has furnished him for years inexhaustible material
for many delightful interpretations of similar subjects. This ability to produce so many things
of equal excellence in a relatively small circle, in one way proves his greatness. In the last
analysis, he has practically everything in his work one looks for in a work of art. In addition
to having an easily understood idea, his pictures are well composed, without showing the consciousness
of it, as does Whistler. Fine in colour and handling, beside the idealization of everything
he includes in his work he achieves a certain something which we recognize as style. He may
be a realist in every sense, but he shows how to deal arbitrarily with his figures in such
a way as to endow them with admirable distinction, without losing the expression of reality.
His recent outdoor work has not the unity of expression of his indoor subjects. It is difficult,
and not really necessary, to single out any work in a one-man representation of unusual uniformity
of excellence. Every one of his pictures has the earmarks of having been carefully studied.

Bela Pratt's statue of Nathan Hale is much less academic than the other sculptures arranged
in this gallery. Compared with the high standard of American small plastic art his works are
somewhat dry, though always conscientiously done.

Gallery 88.

Redfield.

As a realistic painter of the outdoors, E. W. Redfield holds an enviable position in the field
of American art. He is the painter par excellence, without making any pretension at being anything
else. The joy of putting paint on canvas to suggest a relatively small number of things which
make up the great outdoor country, like skies, distance, land foregrounds, is his chosen task.
He is the most direct painter we have. With a heavily loaded brush, without any regard for
anything but immediate effect, he expresses his landscapes candidly and convincingly. He is
plain-spoken, truthful, free from any trickery - as wholesome as his subjects. His a la prima
methods embody, to the professional man, the highest principle of technical perfection, without
falling into a certain physical coarseness so much in evidence in most of our modern work.
His sense of design is keen, without being too apparent, and the impression one gains from
his works is that they are honest transcriptions of nature by a strong, virile personality.
Winter subjects predominate in his pictures, and he expresses them probably more convincingly
than others - though his Autumn is marvelous in its richness of colour, and in the two night
effects of New York he shows his acute power of observation in two totally different subjects.
His art is altogether most refreshing and free from all artificialities.

Gallery 87.

Duveneck.

Paradoxical as it may seem, Duveneck's art is carried by the same painter-qualities found in
Redfield. From his dark colour it is self-evident that he belongs to an older German school
- a school which has been superseded in the affection of Americans by French methods. We know
relatively little, entirely too little, about the generous methods of the best men of the Munich
school, of which Duveneck is so conspicuous a member. His importance in the history of art
can hardly be set too high, for the soundness of his methods alone. Only the greatest ever
attain the capacity for direct painting which characterizes this astonishing collection of
his pictures. Juiciness is the only word which will adequately express the result of his brush.
The pictures here are most interesting for the reason that they were all done while he was
not yet twenty-five and while he lived in an atmosphere of workers of whom Leibl was probably
the most famous. There are few paintings - and then only the greatest - which give one the
same satisfaction at a big distance as well as at close range as Duveneck's do. Men of his
caliber appear only at great intervals. This Duveneck collection, if brought together permanently,
as we are fortunate enough to see it temporarily here in San Francisco, would become the Mecca
of all painters who want to refresh their memory as to what constitutes real painting. Unfortunately
these canvases are owned by different people, and to think that they will all have to be scattered
again among individual owners is a shocking thought. The uniformity of excellence in the Duveneck
room forbids any attempt at picking out individual works; however, Duveneck's equally great
accomplishments on another wall, in the field of etching, are apt to be easily overlooked.
The sarcophagus of his wife, done by his versatile hand, increases the admiration that we,
must hold for this liberal genius. Duveneck's art, no matter how much it is rooted in foreign
soil, will forever make its influence felt for the best of American art.

Gallery 79.

Chase.

Balancing Duveneck's gallery on the south, William M. Chase continues the Munich traditions,
in the successful treatment of a variety of subjects for which he has always been famous. Closely
associated with Duveneck, and showing all the rich qualities of the Munich men, Chase's picturesque
personality finds a reflection in his subjects, which all seem to have been chosen to give
him an opportunity to display a certain bravado of handling which characterizes all of his
work. The Chase collection gives a good idea of the career of this most useful of all American
painters, who in an astonishingly active life has been teacher, friend, and counsellor to hundreds
of the younger people in the field of art. His life has been most useful - always in the interest
of the very best, with conspicuous success in aiding the uplift of American art. His still-lifes
have for years been famous for their fidelity of interpretation of a variety of contrasting
things, like fishes, copper bowls, and onions. No less interesting have been his portraits
of the great mass of people who have sat for him. He has never been afraid of painting anything,
and whatever it may be, he has treated it with great breadth, fine pictorial feeling, and charm
of colour. His "Woman with the White Shawl" has become a classic during his lifetime, and some
of his still-lifes are sufficient to serve as a permanent solid foundation for his reputation.
Chase's art, while decidedly academic, excels in esprit, in a certain elegant yet energetic
expression which after all is nothing but the painter's own personality reflected in his work.
The delightful set of small landscapes of Italian and American subjects adds much interest
in this collection, which is very well hung against an effective blue background.

Gallery 78.

Hassam.

Childe Hassam's art at first is very disconcerting, particularly under a strong midday light.
One has at first the feeling that a religious adherence to a certain impressionistic technique
is of more importance to him than anything else. Entering his gallery from the Chase collection,
one is almost overcome with the contrast of light and dark presented by these two masters.
The contrast of the classic academic atmosphere of Chase's room shows Hassam pronouncedly as
the most radical impressionist we have. His interest is light, and always more light, vibration
at any cost; which contrasted with Chase's art, or for that matter anybody's else, Duveneck's,
or, for instance, even Whistler's, becomes almost irritating in its lack of simple surfaces.
He does not eliminate in the sense of the older men, who care more for a unity of expression
than for an approximation to the actual outdoors. There is sunlight in his work, without a
doubt, but it is not always spread over agreeable subjects. The wooden quality of his figures
and the frugal aspects of his fruit, to us Californians are particularly painful. Of all his
oils in this gallery the two on either side of the "Aphrodite" on the east wall are by far
the best. In them he succeeds in carrying his point agreeably and convincingly. They are both
lovely in colour, and they give you the feeling of having been well studied. The two groups
of watercolours and gouaches on the side walls are, with the exception of a wash blue sea,
very discreet in quality of paint and most intimate in feeling, and to my mind do Hassam more
credit than the many other canvases, which seem to be painted for expounding a technical principle
rather than to reveal his innermost feelings.

Gallery 77.

Gari Melchers.

Melchers' style is much more sympathetic than Hassam's without being less personal. Of modern
painters I confess to a particularly great fondness for Melchers' art. While standing firmly
on classic tradition, it is modern in every sense. One can say everything of good and find
little fault with any of these most conscientiously painted canvases which make up his contribution
to the exhibition. Beginning with his "Fencing Master", one of his older works, he shows in
a great number of similar subjects his loyalty to Egmond aan den Hoef, a little Dutch village
where he has worked for years. The quality of pattern and colour in his work is very pronounced,
and this, combined with a fine psychology, makes his work always interesting. He is no radical;
the best as he sees it in any school he has made subservient to his purpose without any loss
of individuality. His pictures yield much pleasure to public as well as to artist, even in
sentimental stories like the "Sailor and His Sweetheart", or the "Skaters". His finest note
he strikes undoubtedly in the many sympathetic glorifications of motherhood in his fine modern
Madonnas. These works will be the sure foundation of his fame. No matter whether he calls them
"Madonna of the Fields", "Maternity", or simply "Mother and Child", he presents this greatest
of all subjects as few have ever done. His art is wholesome and sane, but endowed with a subtle
quality of insight into his subjects that will always assure him a very high place in the history
of art. For years he has been one of the reliable painters of the world, and to meet with his
work at intervals is always a source of great satisfaction.

Gallery 75.

Sargent.

A small adjoining gallery is given entirely over to a few Sargents which are quite sufficient
to maintain this great stylist, whom many believe the towering giant of the profession. One
thing is evident from this work - that for surety of touch and technical directness he stands
practically alone, though he does not possess the deliberate ease in which Duveneck rejoices.
Sargent's "John Hay" and "Henry James" are absolutely exhaustive as character studies. His
"Nubian Girl", however, is woody, no matter how interesting in posture. In nothing does he
disclose his marvelous precision of technique so completely as in some of the outdoor studies,
like the "Syrian Goats" and the "Spanish Stable". There is nothing like them in the exhibition
anywhere, and these two things alone make up for what is really not a comprehensive display
of one of the greatest of modern living painters. However, a man whose standard of excellence
is relatively very even does not need a large representation.

Gallery 90.

Keith.

In two other small galleries of similar size three California painters have their inning. While
all these are of different caliber, they have something in common which ties them closely together.
It seems peculiar that a country famed for its sunshine should produce men like Keith, Mathews,,
and McComas, who surely do reflect a rather somber atmosphere, in a type of work which must
be called tonal and arbitrary rather than naturalistic.

Keith's collection, with the mass of modern landscape all around, and even compared with other
followers of the Barbizon school, seems somewhat somber, as compared with the vital buoyancy
of Redfield and others of Redfield's type. His range of idealistic landscape subjects is intimate,
but not characterized by the stirring suggestion of outdoors which Inness, Wyant, and others
of his school possess. Keith's marvelous dexterity of brushwork really constitutes his chief
claim upon fame, and some of his best things are gems in easy-flowing methods of painting which
the best men of the Barbizon school seldom approached. Keith must not be looked upon as a painter
of nature nor even an interpreter of nature. He used landscapes simply to express an ever-changing
variety of personal emotion. His attitude toward nature in his later work was of the most distant
kind, although his early career was that of the most painstaking searcher for physical truthfulness.

Gallery 76.

Mathews and McComas.

Mathews and McComas do not exactly make good company. While closely related in the decorative
quality of their work, they are not alike in any other way. Mathews' art is emotional. It tells
something beyond mere colour, form, and composition, while McComas' art is mostly technical,
in the clever manipulation of a very difficult medium. His sense of construction and feeling
for effect is very acute. He is becoming so expert, however, in the handling of watercolour
that one sometimes wishes to see a little more of that accidental charm of surface that his
older work possesses.

General Collection

Having reached far into the heart of the modern American section by way of the one-man galleries,
a chronological pursuit of our study is no more necessary nor possible. Almost all of the pictures
in the modern American section have been produced since 1904, the year of the last international
exhibition, at St. Louis, and they reflect in a very surprising way the tremendous advancement
of native art to a point where comparison with the art of the older nations need not be feared.
In all the fields of painting, including all subjects, portraits and figures generally, landscapes,
marines, and still-life, we can turn proudly to a great number of painters who interpret candidly
and vigorously the world in which we live.

Gallery 71.

The gallery nearest to the one just visited gives a good idea of the mastery of a variety of
subjects in the art of painting, and to continue our investigations from this point is just
as logical as from any other part of the modern American section. In this gallery, easily located
by two large parvenu portraits of dubious merit, are some others which are really vital expressions
of modern art. Beginning on wall A, going to the right, Luis Mora's "Fortune Teller" and Meakin's
landscapes should be singled out. On the west wall Frederic Clay Bartlett's painting of an
interior and Norwood McGilvary's nocturne charm in different ways, while on the adjoining wall
Ritschel's marine and Rosen's winter scenes display excellent quality of design, with fine
outdoor feeling. Miss Fortune's Mission interior deserves its distinction of having been bought
by William M. Chase. Robert Nisbet contributes a rare green tree design, and Hayley Lever's
harbor pictures are all performances of superior merit,

Gallery 70.

This gallery is given over entirely to portraits, most of which are so devoid of any real merit
that it is relatively very easy to single out the good ones. Flagg's portrait of the sculptor
Bartlett, a portrait by Robert David Gauley over the door, the lady with the fur on the second
line on wall B, with her neighbor, Lazar Raditz, by himself, are better than the many others,
which are all well done but do not interest one enough, for one reason or another. The one
picture in this gallery that comes very near being of supreme beauty is the young lady reclining
on a chaise lounge, the work of E. K. Wetherill. Very few pictures in this gallery come up
to the placid beauty of this distinguished canvas, which is somewhat handicapped in its aesthetic
appeal by some unnecessarily tawdry bits of furniture and bric-à-brac used in its make-up.

Gallery 69.

"Phyllis" here represents John W. Alexander, that most capable artist, lost to the world recently
at the height of a very useful career. John W. Beatty's and Francis Murphy' landscapes, on
either side, are both beautiful, in the Barbizon spirit. Howard Russell Butler's "Spirits of
the Twilight" is very luminous, and Lawton Parker's "Paresse" in its sensual note runs "Stella"
a close second in a colour scheme and design of such beauty that one cannot help getting a
great deal of aesthetic satisfaction from it, aside from its too apparent sensational character.

Gallery 68.

This large central gallery averages unusually high in the large number of excellent things
it contains. Four big, well studied marines by William Ritschel make one feel proud of the
contribution they make to the field of American marine painting. It is very hard to say which
one of our four well-represented marine painters, Carlsen, Waugh, Dougherty, and Ritschel,
is most captivating. However, a canvas like Ritschel's "In the Shadow of the Cliffs" will always
hold its own among the best. Ritschel's work is easily recognized by this robust, healthy tone;
it reveals sound values and intimate study. One of Johansen's small landscapes, and another
one by H. M. Camp, on the second line of this wall, grow in one's estimation on longer acquaintance.
They are in fine style and very big for their size, largely by reason of their monumental skies.
Howard Cushing's group in the center is full of skillfully presented detail, without losing
in breadth in the many different subjects he paints. His portrait of a lady, in the center,
is distinguished in every way, not least so in expression.

Johansen's main group of pictures, all on one wall, stand for breadth and intimate study alike.
The Venetian square canvas in the middle is one of the jewels of this exhibition. There is
no end of distinctive canvases in this gallery, as one must conclude on going over to the two
big Daniel Garbers, which are more of the typical American type than his others in the group.
The one on the right is a perfect unit of colour, atmosphere, and pattern. In between, Spencer's
backyard pictures reveal a sympathetic younger painter who, for reason of his choice of proletarian
subjects, does not get the attention he more than deserves. Most original in technique and
charming in tone, they interest wherever one meets them in the exhibition.

On the second line a delightful Speicher landscape should not be overlooked. On wall D an important
winter landscape by Schofield reminds one forcibly of the many excellent painters of ice and
snow we have in this country. They are really the backbone of our American outdoor artists,
and all of them, with the exception of Gardner Symons, can be found in the exhibition. To this
group, beside Redfield and Schofield, before mentioned, belong Charles Morris Young, John F.
Carlson, Charles Rosen, and others. Leon Kroll's "River Industries" and "Weehawken Terminal,"
on the second line, are so typically American in subject that they would have been unacceptable
to the public here twenty years ago.

Gallery 67.

This large room continues to hold the attention of the visitor by more excellent specimens
of present-day art. Dougherty's marines as well as Waugh's very precise, somewhat metallic
seascapes have been referred to before. Dougherty's group of four pictures is augmented by
two Spanish canvases by Lewis Cohen, of which the one to the right is far more convincing than
the other. They are somewhat artificial in colour. Emil Carlsen's only contribution, a fine
open sea, has a quality all its own. The feeling of pattern in sky and water surface, combined
with great delicacy and suggestion of absolute truthfulness, gives it a quality quite apart
from the energetic art of Waugh, Ritschel, and Dougherty. John F. Carlson always has style
to his work, a certain unaffected, noble simplicity, well brought out in three sympathetic
pictures grouped near the Emil Carlsen marine. Adding to the conspicuousness of that wall,
Charles H. Davis and Leonard Ochtman hold their own in their important setting. The only two
figure pictures in this neighborhood are particularly lovely in colour and design, and R. P.
R. Neilson deserves much praise for having struck a unique note conspicuous among the many
commonplace portraits of the present day. Wendt's "Land of Heart's Desire" is unusually happy,
and it supports its title admirably. Very decorative in feeling, it is compelling in its appeal
to the public. Maynard Dixon, another Californian, shows an original small canvas, "The Oregon
Trail," endowed with big feeling.

Two cases in this gallery encourage investigation of American accomplishments in the field
of animal sculpture, and on closer examination of offerings in this most interesting field,
we find an unusually creditable lot of work by Frederick Roth, Albert Laessle, Arthur Putnam,
and Charles Cary Rumsey. They should be considered in a group if their relative merit is to
be fully appreciated. Kemeys and Proctor somewhat antedate them all in their work (in galleries
69 and 72). Roth is next door to Kemeys in 45, among a variety of things done mostly in glazed
clay. A very fine sense of humor comes to the surface most conspicuously in "The Butcher",
"The Baker", and "The Candlestick Maker". Putnam and Laessle are in this gallery side by side.
In sharp contrast with the former's muscular and broad type of modeling, the latter has a very
precise and Japanesque quality of detail modeling which is sometimes a little photographic.
Charles Cary Rumsey is only a few steps away, in gallery 48. In his original subject of a horse
and man drinking he strikes a particularly unique note.

Gallery 80.

Here Metcalf's "Blossom Time" reveals the most poetic of our modern American painters. The
man who bought it made a good investment. In ten years it will be a classic and worth its weight
in gold, including the frame. This canvas gives one more thrills than almost all the others
by the same man - good as they are. The "Trembling Leaves" is superb, but a fussy frame destroys
half the pleasure. Mrs. Philip Hale's elegant and refined interior, together with Paxton's
figural work, prove that we have conquered successfully a certain field of genre which the
American art-lover has been in the habit of buying in Europe. Paxton's "Housemaid" is entirely
in the spirit of the old Dutch, and his "Bellissima" is most luminous alongside of his other works.

Gallery 51.

This magnetic collection comes somewhat as a shock to the public, which can't be blamed for
its disapproval of the recent sensational experiments of Henri and Glackens. It is impossible
to understand why a man like Glackens should so illogically abandon the soundness of his older
work and do those inharmonies of form and colour which he presents on the A wall. His "Woman
with Apple" is absolutely absurd and vulgar beyond description. She has "character," if that
is what he is after, because her vulgarity is convincing. The rest of the things are ridiculous
in their riotous superficiality. Carles seeks the same expression of individuality for which
Glackens strives so hard. In his small, square picture, "Repose," Carles is most successful.
Here he has created a great work of art - beautiful as well as full of character. This canvas
is one of the most successful of the new style. It needs no apologies, and it has all the qualities
of an old master, with modern virility and colour added to it. Let us have new things like
this and we shall not regret having tolerantly and patiently watched all the many idiocities
which are paraded around under the pretext of research and experimentation. Breckenridge's
still-lifes are startling at first, but studied singly they reveal a fine sense of colour.
They constitute a serious and successful contribution to modern art, without being in the least
grotesque. I should like to have one of them in my house, without fear of their very vigorous
colour. In a totally different vein Everett L. Bryant gives some still-lifes which continue
certain impressionistic methods with wonderful delicacy. In certain surroundings they will
add distinction even to a commonplace room. Anshutz's "Lady in Red" is a very good academic
study in a colour which in large quantities is very difficult to handle.

Gallery 50.

The academic school is continued in spirit in Sergeant Kendall's refined portraits, augmented
by a painted wood sculpture of unusual quality, reminiscent of the masters of the early German
Renaissance. Louis Kronberg has his customary ballet girl and Hermann Dudley Murphy some of
his typical, refined marines. His surfaces are always delectable and like the inside of a shell
in their glistening blues and pinks. Both Nelson and Hansen, two native Californians, are well
represented - one by a Monterey coast, the other by a forcefully painted decorative picture
called "The Belated Boat." Lathrop adds two placid pictures, of which the canal is the more
skillfully composed.

Gallery 49.

Peace reigns supreme in this gallery of Tryon and Weir. Tryon reflects all the poetic qualities
of the Barbizon group without striking a new note either technically or in composition. His
larger canvases are of great beauty, very tender and poetic, and altogether too sweet to have
you feel that they were painted for any other reason than to make a pretty picture. His smaller
work gives you that feeling more than his larger ones. Alden Weir's art is the direct opposite
of this. Searching for truth, character, and beauty, he labors over simple subjects with great
concentration and does not stop until they seem like silver symphonies. His art is personal
and must be studied at great length to be fully appreciated. It expects a great deal of concentration,
but one willing to take the trouble will be amply rewarded by ever increasing pleasure. The
art of McLure Hamilton is more interesting in the power of psychological characterization than
in painting. His pictures are painted thinly, more like watercolours than oils.

Gallery 48.

No noteworthy contribution is made here, unless one excepts the academically clever portraits
by Troccoli, a landscape by Vonnoh, and a sumptuous bed of rhododendrons by Edward F. Rook.
Two large "Grand Cañons" again demonstrate the utter futility of trying to paint such motives,
which, in their success, depend entirely upon a feeling of scale that is almost impossible
to attain on a small canvas.

Gallery 47.

Here Blumenschein's large Indian compositions are of decorative character. They are well composed
and dramatic. The "Peace Maker" is big in feeling. Typically American and very unusual are
Colin Campbell Cooper's New York street perspectives. His originality as a painter is well
demonstrated by this choice, which must have taken much courage at a time when American subjects
were more or less despised. Richard Millers "Pink Lady" does not look a bit convincing, cleverly
as it is painted; it is not interesting enough in the large surfaces of overnaturalistic pink
flesh. Half that size would have been just enough for this canvas, which is chiefly a concession
to the modern mania for painting large exhibition pictures to attract attention by their size
alone. Groll's desert pictures are disappointing. They have neither interesting colour nor
sufficient atmosphere to come up to the standard of this typical desert painter.

Gallery 46.

There is a lovely note in this gallery, contributed by Ruger Donoho's garden scenes.  Most
unusual in subject, they are full of life, vibrant with colour, and altogether very delightful,
a most pleasant change from the ordinary run of subjects. Frank Dumond's work on another wall
(B) excels in a pleasant mannerism. His work is most thoughtful and well studied. The two smallest
of his paintings are perfect gems in every way - well balanced by two small tender canvases
of southern Europe by Mrs. Dumond (on the opposite wall). Two portraits in this gallery, Inez
Addams' "Daphne" and Adolphe Borie's "Spring," should not be slighted. Borie's is very strong,
and one of the best portraits on exhibition. Alongside of it is a winter landscape by Ernest
Albert, which, while a little timid, is nevertheless poetic and more convincing than others
of that type near by.

Gallery 45.

Charles Morris Young's art is so refreshing, so spontaneous in every way, that it catches one's
eye immediately on passing on into this room. His work deserves recognition for more than one
reason. His handling of paint is fresh and clear and a direct aiming for a final expression
of what he wants to convey. Any one of the six subjects is well handled. They give one the
feeling of the artist's thorough understanding of his material. His own "House in Winter" and
the "Red Mill" reach the high-water mark of landscape painting in the exhibition. Griffin's
pictures, on another wall, so openly disregard technical rules in their careless superimposition
of unnecessary paint that in spite of a great richness of colour and a certain suggestion of
truth, they are not apt to hold one one's affection very long. They are sincere, I admit, but
careless in technique. There is no doubt about it, because heavy paint and bare pieces of canvas
will not make durable pictures. Birge Harrison is disappointing in two pastels which seem too
chromo-like, too mechanical, to carry their point.

Gallery 44.

This collection is not at all without interest, but with few exceptions the pictures in it
are not strong enough to hold their own with so many good things abounding elsewhere. Ralph
Clarkson's portrait, Bartlett's schoolyard, Perrine's technically unique landscape, are all
meritorious.

Gallery 43.

Frederic M. DuMond's "Sea Carvings" in the corner, and Nahl's decorative composition attract,
each in its way, while in another corner a badly skyed portrait by Hinkle is scarcely given
a chance.

Gallery 74.

It will be necessary to make a little journey over to the inner side of the arch of the building
to continue and finish the art of modern America. In this small Gallery, adjoining Sargent's,
nothing stirring happens. Landscapes predominate, with varying interest, but nothing with any
style or unity of expression presents itself, with the exception of Carl Oscar Borg's "Campagna
Romana" and a fine sky over the door by William J. Kaula. The landscapes of G. W. Sotter and
Will S. Robinson stand out among the rest.

Gallery 73.

Next door, in 73, Alson Skinner Clark has been given the privilege of almost an entire Gallery,
without any other justification than historical interest in his shallow Panama scenes, devoid
of any quality. They are illustrations - that is all. Gifford Beal disappoints in some superficial
paintings of commonplace subjects, which a skillful technique might easily have turned into
something worth while. His "Old Town Terrace" is much the best, but the collection makes one
apprehensive for Beal's future performances. Paul King's canvas over the door is excellent,
well painted, and interesting in subject.

Gallery 72.

There seems no end of productiveness of American painters, and justice demands more investigation
and undeniably more steps. Ladies with parrots, with and without clothes, are numerous, but
the one in here is more interesting than the others. I hope that not all of these parrot pictures
are meant symbolically. Walter McEwen arouses memories of times gone by, technically and otherwise,
in a huge storytelling Salon picture. By noticing
in those eyes on us, Magdalena had a suspicion? I believe, because it became suddenly as to
surprise me. I held the fire in his eyes, the most immediate and clairvoyant I have ever faced.
If it had been in his life I would not have been more committed to an act of recklessness that
he demanded the best. The rest of the evening was spent wrong. Magdalena seemed less busy of the
music, distracted by an annoying idea, as if that meeting and that remain face to face importunity.
Once or twice yet sought to clarify the doubts, then was foreign to everything happening around
her and I realized that was removed from the back of his mind.
 Undoubtedly, to offset this apparent isolation, some
of the most alluring paintings can be found at this end.

Gallery 117.

Here is Frederic Frieseke, our expatriated American, with his fascinating boudoir scenes. Very
high in key and full of detail, at first they seem restless and crowded, which some actually
are, in a degree. But canvases like "The Garden" and "The Bay Window" and "The Boudoir" are
real jewels of light and colour. "The Bay Window" is the most placid of his canvases and in
conception much finer than his outdoor subjects. Frieseke's clear, joyous art is typically
modern, and expresses the best tendency of our day. Luis Mora's two watercolours, while illustrative,
hold their own in Frieseke's company. Tanner's big religious canvas falls far below this capable
painter's usual efforts. Native talent helps out in a delightful marine, honestly painted by
Bruce Nelson, and an apple green and pale pink colour-harmony by Charlton Fortune. Very much
in the style of the Frieseke, Rittman's "Early Morning in the Garden" is easily taken for the
art of his fascinating neighbor, but it should be recognized as the work 0f another kindred spirit.

Gallery 118.

In 118, landscapes predominate over figural work, at least in quality. Harry Leslie Hoffman's
"Spring Mood," Wilbur Dean Hamilton's tender and poetic canvas, and Louise Brumbach's city
view bathed in the grays of an early morning call for recognition.

Gallery 119.

The general character of the next gallery is different from the preceding. Given over to oils,
watercolours, pastels, lithographs, and drawings, it presents an interesting appearance. Six
pastels by Henry Muhrman and Frank Mura's charcoal drawings are the leaders here, and the drawings
generally are the best things among the many oils and watercolours, which were mostly made
for purposes of illustration. Drawings by Martinez, pastels by Miss Percy, two sympathetic
drawings by Miss Hunter, and a few still-lifes in watercolour, by Miss Boone, all bear testimony
to native ability as represented by California.

Gallery 120.

The last gallery contains Bellow's bold canvases, of which "The Polo Game" is the best known,
another fine canvas by Henry Muhrman, and some older American work by Stewart, typical of what
we used to send to Europe in years gone by.

In the Garden.

While many plastic works have been mentioned in the survey of the galleries, still great numbers
of statues, statuettes, and fountain figures call for investigation, out of doors. Sculpture
is, on the whole, not so complex as painting, and dealing with the expression of emotions much
more directly than painting, it can easily be understood. Of the many pieces displayed outside,
Janet Scudder's fountain figures earn all the applause they receive, and most of the other
sculptors are old friends, since they have been met with in the decorative embellishments of
the architecture of the Exposition. There is Aitken, with a bust of Taft; Chester Beach, with
a young girl in marble, of great charm; Solon Borglum's Washington, Mrs. Burroughs' garden
figure, Stirling Calder, and Piccirilli - all well remembered. It is gratifying to meet all
these men, and many others, in freer and more detached expression of their art, under conditions
where no severe architectural restrictions were put upon them.

The Graphic Arts

Conclusion

It will be necessary to retrace our steps to take up a series of galleries all along the outer
curve of the building. They are devoted to illustrations, miniatures, stained glass, plaques,
and the many expressions of graphic art we know as black and white, charcoal and pencil drawing,
monotypes, lithotints, etchings, and so on. With Whistler's etchings on one end of the arch,
we find Howard Pyle at the other.

Gallery 42.

Pyle, since his death a few years ago, is recognized as the most important of American illustrators.
His art is most intellectual. It commands immediate respect for its historical interest, which
is based on more than mere knowledge of the story illustrated. His milieu is always right,
distinctly so when he deals with the West Indian buccaneers. His sense of colour is simple
and dignified. It has the typical breadth and decorative feeling that men like Jules Guérin
and Maxfield Parrish developed. Pyle was not an ordinary illustrator. His interest in his work
showed much depth and great originality. There is nobody to take his place. In the small adjoining
gallery (41) his black and white drawings strengthen one's impression of this versatile man's art.

Gallery 40.

Here we have Guérin in all the glory of his rich colour harmonies, which have made the Exposition
famous. Painstaking and conscientious as his art is, it is always full of power of suggestion.
Every square inch of his most agreeably framed decorations is well considered, with nothing
left to accidental effect. Still, they are full of freedom, very loose in handling, and always
convincing. To choose the best among his eight is very difficult, although his "Cemetery on
the Golden Horn" on longer study does not seem to be free from a certain artificiality of colour,
in the reddish hue of the reflected sunlight on the cypresses. The "Blue Mosque at Cairo" is
wonderfully poetic, and his "Temple of Sunium" has all the tragic feeling of the classic ruins
of Asia Minor. Opposite Guérin Mr. and Mrs. Hale display unusual refinement and grace of form
in a unit wall of drawings and pastels. Mrs. Hale's drawings are the quintessence of delicacy,
without possessing any of the sugary disagreeable sweetness of so many of our popular illustrators.
Mr. Hale's pastels are no less enchanting in his outdoor compositions in many soft greens -
a difficult colour to deal with. The many other things in this gallery are all worth studying
in their conservatism and radicalism.

Miniatures abound here and endless sighs are heard of entranced ladies who have succumbed to
the sentimental insipidness of these misplaced artistic efforts. Miniature painting holds no
charm for me. Most of them are technical stunts and concessions to a faddism which has never
had anything to do with the real problem of painting. Practically all of the miniatures in
the cases are very well done, but when I think of the physical discomfort of adjusting one's
eyes to this pigmy world, then I cannot help feeling that, considering the low cost of canvas,
a great effort deal of fine effort has been wasted. Looking at miniatures, I am always reminded
of the man who spent several years of his useless life in writing the Old Testament on the
back of a postage stamp.

Gallery 39.

McLure Hamilton has a fascinating group of anatomical sketches in this small gallery. They
are all charming fragments of a lady one would like to know more about. As drawings they are
spirited and full of rhythmic linework. Their fragrant rococo style brings one back into that
original atmosphere the destinies of which were so largely controlled by similar attractions.
The apotheosis in his collection is furnished by a drawing of a recently abandoned or to-be-occupied
nest, presented in a most suggestive manner. In the cases plaques and medallions abound, the
interest of which is largely attributable to Fraser's excellent work.

Gallery 38.

This room continues to hold one's interest, with some small pieces of plastic art, all of great
merit.

Gallery 37.

Watercolours make up the chief problems of study in this long room, without convincing one
that we have any too many great painters in this medium. The best thing among the many commonplace
paintings is a marine by Woodbury which takes you far out on the open sea. In spite of its
size it is a big picture, one of the really big ones in any medium in the whole exhibition.
All of Woodbury's paintings are big in their way, and prove what can be done in this medium. He wanted to know, throbbing with emotion, all the dangers to which he had been subjected
and the young warrior "ancillary services" spoke of his concerns at the office during endless
days in which troops fought near Paris, hearing from outside the thunder of artillery. His father
had wanted to take him to Bordeaux, but the administrative confusion Late kept in the capital.

Something else had done. The day of hard work, when the governor of the place in cars launched valid to
all men, had taken a gun, without anyone calling him, occupying a vehicle with others in your office.
I had not seen rather than smoke, burned houses, killed and wounded. Not a single German went
before him, except to a group of prisoners Hulan. There been several hours lying at a roadside
shooting ... And nothing else.

For the moment, was enough to Chichi. She felt proud of being the girlfriend of a hero the
Marne, but its intervention would have been a few hours.

But to pass the days, his character was overshadowed.

Bothered him out into the street to René, soldier, and ancillary services in addition ... The
Village women, excited by the memory of the men who fought in the front or dressed mourns the
death of any of them were aggressive insolence.

The delicacy and Republican Prince elegance seemed to irritate them. She heard repeatedly passing
thick words against "ambush."

The idea that his brother, who was not French, I was paddling, made him even more intolerable
Lacour situation. Boyfriend sought a "ambushed."

I laugh at your friends! ...

The senator's son no doubt guessed her thoughts, and this made him lose his peace of mind smiling.
For three days did not show up at the house of Desnoyers. Everyone thought he was held by a clerical
job.

One morning, speaking to Chichi Forest Avenue escorted by her maid
coppery, he saw a soldier who was walking toward her.

He wore a brand new uniform, the new blue-gray color "horizon", adopted by the French army.
The chin strap of the kepi was gold and carried a small sleeves piece
of gold.

His smile, his outstretched hands, the safety coming towards her,
did recognize.

René official! ... Her boyfriend, Lieutenant!

- Yes, I can not anymore ... I've heard enough.

Behind the father and using his friends had done in a few days this
transformation. As a student at Central School, could be a second
lieutenant in the reserve artillery, and had requested that we send
to the front. After the auxiliary service! ... Within two days was
about to leave for war.

- You have done that! - Exclaimed Chichi
-. You made it! ...

He looked pale, with greatly enlarged eyes, eyes
that seemed to devour admiration.

- Come, my poor baby ... Come here,
sweet soldier ... I owe you something.

And turning his back to the
girl, invited him to immediately turn a corner. It was the same: cross
street was as crowded as the avenue. Art has to
live, and in our country it exists only by the patronage which comes directly from the people,
since federal, state and municipal governments seldom contribute toward its support. Not until
the community feels it a privilege rather than a duty to give substantial encouragement to
our artists will they ever feel completely at home or will they be able to do their best work.

Art is becoming more of a necessity in our midst, while not so long ago it was more or less
an affected interest of the rich. We have all the conditions and the talent to allow us to
push ahead into the front rank of the art of the world, and an exposition like this gives more
than encouraging evidence of the awakening spirit of national American art. May this exposition
mark an epoch in the art of America! - and particularly of the West, as other expositions have
in the westward march of civilization, which has now found its goal where it must either achieve
or perish. For us to stand still or to return to the pre-exposition period would be calamity.
We have here in California, of all the states of the Union, conditions to offer, which, if
properly availed of, would give us a unique position on the continent. Climatically and historically
we have all the stimulating necessities for a great art, and it is our duty to take advantage
of them.

Appendix

Bibliography

To the student and lover of art, a list of helpful reference books and periodicals might be
of interest, and the following publications are recommended as sources of reference, of information
and for study. 

In normal times, he was kept at a distance. The millionaire was in favor of order. Detested
the revolutionaries, with the instinctive fear of all the rich who have created his fortune
and remember the modesty of its origins. H. Caffin American
Masters of Sculpture - Chas. H. Caffin How to Study Pictures - Chas. H. Caffin The Story of
American Painting - Chas.

