When a group of ex-China missionaries get together at home and go to a Chinese restaurant for
a meal, the first thing they do after ordering is to request that the food be served in bowls,
and they be supplied with chopsticks instead of knives and forks. Why? Ask any of them. The
reply you will probably get is, "Oh, it doesn't taste the same when eaten with knives and forks!"
And the strange part about it is that it is really true.

"But," you say, "chopsticks are so difficult to use!" Not at all! You just need a little practice.
Even knives and forks are difficult for beginners to manage. You would know that if you had
watched as many beginners (adults) try to use them as I have.

"No, but you can't cut anything with them!" Of course you can't. The kitchen is the place for
cutting up food. To serve a slab of meat on a plate, and expect the eater to saw off pieces
with a dull knife--it's utterly barbarous! Chinese food is properly prepared, bite-size, in
the kitchen.

"Oh? But what about soup or gravy? You can't eat them with chopsticks!" Quite true; neither
can you eat them with knife and fork. Chinese eat soup with a spoon, or drink it from a bowl.

"Well, chopsticks are awkward, in any case!" Awkward? What are you talking about? They are
just like pincers--you nip a bite and pick it up daintily, instead of spearing, or shoveling,
as you do with a fork.

It's amazing how hard it is for an American (I won't speak for other nationalities!) to come
to the place where he will appreciate the fact that the ways of people in other lands are in
many cases better for them than our ways would be. If you are going to the foreign field in
order to teach "the American way of life," you had better stay at home. In saying this I do
not mean that Americans do not have some skills that it might be advantageous for the people
on some foreign mission fields to learn. But any missionary who has the feeling that his ways
of doing things are better just because they are "civilized" ways, or "American" ways, or just
his own ways, is heading for trouble.

When I first went to China I thought I had no feeling of race superiority. Then an incident
occurred that showed me I was not as humble as I had thought. It was at the Chinese New Year
season. Chinese New Year is the time of preparing all sorts of special foods, and frequently
at that time some of the Christian women would send us a bowl of this, or a plate of that.
There was a neighborly feeling about it all that warmed my heart. Then one year a fairly wealthy
Christian woman, who had just recently moved to our city, sent her servant over with a gift
of a different kind. It was not food this time, but money. In purchasing value the amount would
have been equivalent to an American dollar or two. It was the first money gift that had ever
been presented to me by a Chinese.

I had always been pleased with the gifts of food, but somehow, when I saw what this gift was,
I reacted strongly against it. There was something in me that rebelled. "I don't need your
money!" was my instinctive reaction. Fortunately I had enough politeness left to realize that
I could not refuse it without offending the giver, and so I did take it, mumbling my thanks,
which I did not feel, and watched the servant depart. Then I sat down to think it out. Why
did it make me so uncomfortable to accept that gift? When I finally got to the bottom of it,
I decided that the real reason was that I unconsciously felt that it put me in an inferior
position. Accepting a gift of food was different--that was just neighborliness. But a small
gift of money! That is normally given by a superior to an inferior--a father to his child,
a mistress to her servant, one who has sufficient for his needs to one who has not. In this
case the giver did not look at it like that, of course. Money gifts were a common thing in
her circle, and to her the amount was not too small. But my unconscious reaction was that I
was being put in an inferior position, and this was the thing at which I rebelled. How could
I, who was this woman's superior (this was my unconscious feeling), take this money, and so
accept the place of being her inferior?

The position of a missionary is something like that of a teacher. He comes to tell people something
that they do not know; to introduce a Friend of whom they have not heard. He certainly knows
more about Christianity, academically and experimentally, than the people to whom he goes--otherwise
there would be no point in his going. He probably knows more about the world in general than
the people to whom he goes. He may know better ways of living and working, even for their environment,
than they do. How can a person be conscious of how much more he knows than someone else, and
still not feel superior? Those among whom he works may realize that he knows much that they
should learn, and may look up to him as a superior being. This makes it even harder. How can
he overcome the superiority complex that comes from race, or from looking on oneself as civilized,
or even just from recognizing that one has more education and experience than those among whom
he works?

The first step in conquering this superiority complex is to realize that it is there. Most
of us have it without realizing it. If we realize that this thing probably exists somewhere
in our make-up, it will be easier to recognize it when it suddenly rears its head, as it did
with me. Seeing it for what it is is the first step in conquering it. The second step, I think,
is to become thoroughly acquainted with those to whom we go. Perhaps if we know more about
them we will not find them so inferior. Go and live their life with them, twenty-four hours
of the day. Don't just put yourself in the position of an observer, but try to do the things
that they do. You will probably find that you are not as proficient in doing most of the things
that they do as are their ten-year-old children! If your people are uncivilized, go into the
jungle with them and try to wrest your living from the jungle--try to find or make everything
that you need. If they are civilized, but poor and backward, go into their homes, and live
their lives with them. See how they grow their own food, and that without the use of modern
machinery; how they grind their own grain into flour, salt or dry their own vegetables, butcher
their own meat--if they have any; how they raise cotton, pick it, card it, spin it, dye it,
weave it into cloth, and make the clothes for the family without the aid of a sewing machine.
And then watch them (as I often have) make beautiful embroidery for relaxation! By the time
you have become really familiar with (I won't say proficient in) their way of life, I think
you will have lost most of your feeling of superiority. You will no more think of them as "ignorant
savages," or "those from lower cultural groups." Instead, they will just be John, and Mary,
and Peter, and Paul--or whatever their names happen to be--real people, like you and me; real
people, who are amazingly skillful in some ways, and amazingly stupid in others, just like
the rest of us.

There is one more thing we need to do in conquering that superiority complex. We need to realize
what a difference having Christ makes. Those to whom we minister may live in the midst of filth
and disease. Their minds may be dull, and their hearts dark and full of fears. (Were our ancestors
any different when Christ found them?) But see them come to the One who is the Light of the
world, and watch the transformation that takes place. Then realize more deeply than ever all
that you owe to Christ, and the greatness of His power in making the one who comes to Him literally
"a new creation." What these people need is not a training that will educate them out of their
environment. What they need is not to learn to use knives and forks instead of chopsticks or
fingers. What they need is a LIFE that will transform them, and enable them to live a life
of victory over sin and the Devil within their environment. This imparted life may gradually
transform that environment too--probably it will; but that is a secondary thing. There is one
thing that is essential, and one alone--the impartation of the life of Christ. It does not
matter how low, how ignorant, how degraded the person is, Christ is able to transform him into
someone far superior to me; and it may be that that is just what He is going to do. Who am
I, a poor redeemed sinner, to look down upon anyone else? Who am I to challenge Christ's power,
and refuse to believe that anyone can be made new?

       *       *       *       *       *

Dear Lord, forgive me for feeling that I am superior to anyone! Open my eyes to see how deep
was the pit from which I was digged! Grant that I may make myself one with the people to whom
Thou art sending me, and that by faith I can see them transformed by Thy power, even before
that transformation has taken place!

CHAPTER 11

The Right to Run Things

A new mission station opened! Another conquest of the Gospel! Have you ever wondered how it
was done? Suppose you are a missionary, and have already passed successfully through the language-learning
stage. Suppose you are assigned an area where the Gospel has never been preached, an area teeming
with people, very few of whom have ever even heard the precious name of Jesus. You probably
have a fellow worker. You have good health, a reasonable knowledge of the language and local
customs, and a heart on fire for God. You have a certain amount of financial resources. What
do you do? How do you start in?

Let's see what Mr. Beaver did. When assigned to this new, untouched field, his heart and the
heart of his wife were deeply moved. Ten thousand souls and more, and probably not one of them
a Christian! Ten thousand souls and more, and it might well be that none of them had ever heard
the Gospel preached in any adequate way! Ten thousand souls and more, and the large majority
of them had never even heard the name of Jesus! What an opportunity! What a challenge!

"Such a challenge calls for action," ruminated Mr. Beaver. "It calls for immediate action,
and yet action that is well planned, and will be as effective as possible. How can we reach
the largest number of souls for Christ in the shortest time? But what can two people do, anyway?
We must have helpers. We must have a church building, and a native evangelist or two. We must
have a street chapel. We must have a Christian school, for through it we can reach countless
numbers of young people. Our church and school will be established in the central city of the
area, of course. But then, think of all the smaller towns and villages! As soon as things get
going in the city, we must start outstations in strategic market towns as well. We must organize
tent campaigns, making use of modern equipment--public address system, recordings, films, and
all the rest. We must also start a social welfare program that will help us to get in touch
with the poorer classes--and aren't the bulk of the people always poor? A certain amount of
relief funds, administered carefully to the deserving, will make the love of Christ known in
a practical way, and surely will attract folk to our church."

So ran the thoughts of Mr. and Mrs. Beaver, and, because they were "go-getters," their plans
were soon put into effect. A fine piece of property was purchased. Buildings were erected:
a residence for themselves, a preaching hall opening directly on the main street, fine school
buildings, and a beautiful church building. Crowds of people came to listen to the singing,
to see Christian films, and to hear the Gospel preached in simplicity and power. It was not
long before people were giving their names as inquirers. The missionaries' servants were among
the first to respond, and their friends and relatives followed. Other helpers around the place
were needed: a gardener, a gatekeeper, and so on, and naturally these were chosen from among
the first converts. Soon the busy compound was like one happy family--all gathering the first
thing in the morning for prayer, and joining their voices in song, praising the One of whom
they had never heard three months ago, but who now was their acknowledged Saviour. Callers
came from morning till night. Mr. Beaver was never too busy to see them, to hear their tales
of woe, to point them to the Saviour, and to give them a little judicious help.

"It's not too wise," he thought, "to give out a lot of money for nothing. I don't want to make
paupers of these people. What they need is jobs, and someone who will encourage them to work,
training them if necessary. Let's see--I've got quite a bit of relief funds in hand; and there's
plenty of work that needs to be done to improve this property. So-and-so [one of the new inquirers]
is a builder; I'll put him in charge of operations, and we'll take on all these poor people
who need help--much better than giving them help outright--and we'll really put this place
into shape. Not only will our property benefit, but it will also give these people a chance
to hear the Gospel again and again, until they really understand it. I'm sure that many of
them will accept the Lord if this plan goes through!"

And so things went. Such large numbers gave their names as inquirers, and they studied and
attended services so faithfully that within six months the first baptismal service was held.
What joy it brought to the hearts of Mr. and Mrs. Beaver! Two other such services were held
before the first year was up, and by that time Mr. Beaver felt it right to appoint deacons,
and to get the church on an organized basis. He chose several of the most promising young people,
including one who had served in his home, and sent them off to a Bible institute, looking forward
with great joy to the time when they would graduate and come back to help him in the work.
Then he would be able to let his original evangelists go (they were getting a bit too bossy
anyway, and thought they knew how the Lord's work should be carried on better than he did!),
and have only his own spiritual children associated with him in the work. They would all work
happily under his direction, and surely the Lord could bless more where the workers were all
one in heart. Well, he wouldn't say that these evangelists were not one in heart with him,
but still--sometimes he felt that there was just a little something lacking. Sometimes they
didn't support his plans with all the enthusiasm that they might.

By the time three more years had passed, Mr. Beaver had put up church buildings in six market
towns, and was just waiting until his first young people graduated from the Bible institute
and came back before starting regular weekly services in the last three of the six towns. He
traveled constantly, and wherever he went the people flocked to him for help and advice. True,
there were one or two that turned against him, but one couldn't expect the Lord's work always
to be easy; and the large majority looked to him as children to a father. There were elders
as well as deacons in the church now, and when he presided at their meetings and looked over
the group, his own spiritual children now taking their places as leaders in the church, his
heart just melted. True, they were a bit hesitant about going ahead, and always consulted him
before making plans, but that was only natural and right. After all, they had only a few years'
experience in the church and couldn't be expected to know how best to govern the House of God.
Indeed, several times he had found it necessary to put his foot down when one of them, a little
less experienced and more reckless than the others, had advanced his own ideas of how church
affairs should be managed. But he had soon subsided and realized his mistake. What a happy
family the church was, indeed, with everything working out just as he had planned it! Truly
God was good!

       *       *       *       *       *

At the time when Mr. Beaver went to his new station and began putting his magnificent plans
into effect, another worker was sent, in the same way, to a new area. Mr. Trainer was perhaps
not so dynamic an individual, but he knew just as clearly what his plans were for the church
that was as yet unborn. "The church, which is his body"--the Body of Christ! The Church which
is, through the indwelling Christ, the light of the world! The Church, where each member is
in vital contact with the Head, and so, necessarily, is in vital contact with every other member!
The Church, each member of which is indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and each member of which feels
his responsibility to live and witness for the One who means all in all to him! The church
Mr. Trainer wanted to plant was a church which was all this--a church which was a living plant,
with its roots going down into God; a church which did not look to the missionary, or any other
man, for its needs, but which was centered upon Christ; a church which would be given "gifts"
by the Holy Spirit, and would be able to use those gifts to the edifying of itself, and the
bringing of souls into the kingdom.

Mr. Trainer, like Mr. Beaver, went to the central city of his area and located on a main street.
His "compound" was a tiny rented house, with a pocket-handkerchief-size courtyard. He did no
building at all, and his few rooms were sparsely furnished. Books were the only things he seemed
to own. There were books everywhere, said his callers, but not much else--some perfectly ordinary
furniture, and that was all. He had no street chapel, and no paid workers brought in from the
outside; but day by day he set a table and a few stools in his gateway, covered the table with
attractive Gospel literature printed in the language of the people, and there he sat and read.
Passersby stopped to examine his books. One and all received an attractive Gospel tract, and
had the message explained in simple language as long as they cared to listen. Some bought Gospels
and other booklets. A few got into the habit of dropping by every evening, when work was done;
and Mr. Trainer taught them to sing Gospel songs and choruses, and read the Word with them.
At other times he went from shop to shop, giving out tracts, and inviting people to call when
they had time.

The compound of Mr. Trainer was tiny, compared with that of Mr. Beaver. He had no school, and
no church building. He did not even hold church services at first--who was there to come? Not
another Christian in all that area. He did not attract huge crowds. He did not spend large
sums of money, nor employ large numbers of people. People did not come to him for financial
assistance--what would be the use, when he did not seem to have any more money than anyone
else? But he attracted a few, a few "whose heart the Lord opened," and day by day he taught
them more about the Saviour. It was a full year before he had a baptismal service. The numbers
baptized were far smaller than those baptized by Mr. Beaver, but the joy in his heart was just
as real.

