

BACKGAMMON

The object of each player is to get all his men into his home table, and as soon as they have
all arrived to throw them off the board altogether. The one that succeeds in doing this first
wins the game. Each of two players has fifteen men, known as black and white, and each should
have his own dice-box. Almost all of the folding checker boards are marked on the reverse side
for backgammon, and the fifteen men of each color in a checker set are intended for backgammon
players. The two sides of the board nearer the players are called tables, and the table with
only two men on two of the points is called the inner table. It is also the home table of the
player who sits with that side of the board nearer to him.

It does not matter which way the board is turned, as the arrow points are alternately light
and dark all the way round in either direction, but it is usual to place the side of the board
with only two men on points nearest the window, so that there shall be a good light on the
home tables. The points in the home tables are known by their numbers, which correspond to
the faces of a die, and are called: ace point, deuce point, trey point, four point, five point,
and six point.

The point immediately across the bar which divides the two tables is called the "bar point,"
not because it is next the bar, but because it bars the two adverse men in your home table
from running away with double sixes if you can "make it up."

CHECKERS

The object of the game is to capture all the opponent's men and remove them from the board,
or else to pin them up in such a manner that he cannot move. If neither player can accomplish
this, the game is drawn.

A board divided into sixty-four squares is used. These are of dark and light color. Each player
receives twelve men, known as white and black. At the beginning of the game the board is so
placed that each player shall have two of his men touching the edge of the board at his left.
The men are set on the black squares.

The squares upon the board are supposed to be numbered from one to sixty-four, beginning at
the upper left-hand corner upon the side of the board occupied by the black men.

In giving the moves the first figures are the moves of a black man. The next figures are the
moves of a white man.

As the men never leave the color upon which they are first placed, all moves must be diagonal.
A man can move only one square at a time, and only to a square which is in front of him diagonally
and is not occupied.

If a square to which a man might move is occupied by an adverse piece, that piece can be jumped
over if there is a vacant square immediately beyond him. The capturing piece moves to this
vacant square, and the man jumped over is removed from the board. Two or more men may sometimes
be captured simultaneously. When a piece may be captured the player is obliged to take it.
If he does not, his adversary can compel him to take back his move and make the capture, or
can remove from the board the piece that should have made the capture, or can let the matter
stand. If there are two different captures on the board at the same time the player can take
his choice of them.

JENKINS

Any number of players may play this game, which is common to almost every nation, and is very
interesting. Sides being formed, the players seat themselves at a table, facing each other.
It having been decided who shall first hold the silver piece, the player who receives it holds
it in his closed hand under the table, as do all the players on his side, when they receive
it, and the piece is passed from hand to hand, the object being to deceive the opposite players
as to its whereabouts.

The captain of the side which has not the coin now calls: "Jenkins says hands up," and all
the hands come up, closed; then "Jenkins says hands down," and all the hands fall, palms downward,
on the table. There should be much noise to drown the clink of the piece as it falls on the table.

The opposing side now tries to guess the side which has not the coin. The captain directs the
players who have not the piece to take their "hands off." None of his side may give this order.
Should any do so the coin is forfeited.

Should the captain make a mistake and call up a hand under which the coin is hidden, the piece
remains with the same side, and the number of hands still on the table counts for the side
which keeps the coin. If the last hand left on the table covers the piece, it then goes to
the opposing players. It is necessary to set a score. The side which makes these points wins
the game.

BOUQUET

Each guest receives a slip of paper, on which is written the name of a flower. When all are
ready to begin, the hostess gives to each a sheet of tissue paper of the color needed to make
a designated flower; also two sheets of green paper of different shades.

Thirty minutes are allowed for the making of the flowers. A pair of scissors and a needle and
thread must be given to each guest; also some mucilage. The flowers are collected and a committee
decides who has made the most perfect flower. The one who has done so receives the bouquet
of flowers made by the guests.

ZOO

The names of animals are given the players. Each receives ten slips of paper numbered from
one to ten. These are arranged irregularly in a pile. The winner is the one who first gets
rid of his slips.

SIMON SAYS

Any number of players seat themselves at a table. Each player makes a fist of each hand, extending
the thumb. The others must imitate him.

He then says, "'My thumb wiggles-waggles." He suits the action to the word, and the rest repeat
his performance.

If at any time the leader omits the words "Simon says," and goes through the movements only
with the words "Thumbs up," "Thumbs down," or "Wigle-waggle," the players must all keep their
hands still and not imitate his movements. Any player doing this pays a forfeit.

Example: Who is the just, gentle writer?

Answer: John Greenleaf Whittier.

Whose stories are read alike by old and young?

Answer: James Fennimore Cooper.

Who was the greatest humorist?

Answer: "Mark Twain."

SKETCHES

The players are provided with sheets of paper and pencils. They then write a description of
some historical character. The object is to give a description that is truthful, yet misleading,
in a way, so as to make the guessing a little harder.

One player reads his description. The others ask questions that may be answered by "Yes" and
"No." The one guessing correctly reads his description next.

STRAY SYLLABLES

The same syllable is often seen in different words. You can prove this by playing the following
game: Each player writes several words on a long strip of paper, leaving spaces between the
different words. This having been done the syllables are cut out and shuffled. Each player
draws three syllables. The guests seat themselves at small tables, and try to fashion words
from the syllables, either using two or three of them. If it is impossible to do this, they
must be returned and others are taken in their place. Another trial at word-making is given,
and the one who, after a definite time, has made the most words out of his syllables, wins a prize.

SHAKESPEAREAN ROMANCE

One of Shakespeare's plays is selected, and as many questions are arranged in connection with
it as the writer can think of. These are given to the players.

Example: About what time of the month were they married? Answer: Twelfth-Night.

Of whom did they buy the ring? Answer: Merchant of Venice.

In what kind of a place did they live? Answer: Hamlet.

PARODIES

Pencils and paper are given the guests, and a subject for the parody is given. This may be
a poem or a story, as selected by the hostess. The parodies are collected and read. The company
decides which is the best one. To this one a handsome copy of the poem or story is given.

LONDON

On a large, oblong slate draw with a slate pencil a diagram, as follows: Horizontal lines every
two inches across the narrow part of the slate. Pieces of paper are blown over the diagram
toward the top of the slate; or beans or pieces of chalk may be substituted for the paper.
One of these is called a "chipper." If you use beans, snap them over the diagram with the fingers.
Where the "chipper" stops, draw a mark to represent a small round "o." This depicts a man's
head. The "chipper," having been returned to the starting point, is again snapped over the
diagram. This occupies the space completely and keeps the other players out of it. He continues
to play until his "chipper" lands on a line. If this goes beyond the diagram, the player is
"out." Each player takes a turn. He can start, or complete men, in any space not occupied with
three armed men, even though the former player may have started men in the space or have completed
two of them. A player can build only on his own men. The one drawing the largest number of
spaces with three armed men is the winner.

CHESS

Chess is a game which can only be played by two persons at the same time. The requisites are
a board consisting of 64 squares of alternate black and white, and 32 pieces of wood, ivory,
bone or other composition, which are technically known as "men." The board is so placed between
the players that a white square is on the extreme right of each. The "men" are called black
and white, there being an equal number of each. One player takes the white and another the
black. Each division of 16 is composed of a king (the capture of which is the issue of the
game), a queen, 2 rooks or castles, 2 bishops, 2 knights, and 8 pawns. In commencing the game,
the rooks are placed on the corner squares, next to them on each side a knight, next to the
knights on each side a bishop, and then the king and queen. If white, the queen is placed on
the remaining white square, if black, on the remaining black square, and thus both queens face
each other. It is the same with the kings. The 8 pawns are placed on each side on the squares
immediately in front of the pieces.

The player has the privilege of moving his king into any vacant square adjacent to one he is
occupying, provided it is not already taken by a piece belonging to his opponent, but he can
go no farther. The queen can be moved in any direction up, down, backwards, forwards, as long
as there is no piece to block her. The same can be done with the rook or castle, except that
it cannot be moved diagonally--The bishop can only be moved diagonally, in a backward or forward
direction. The move of the knight is a combination of the rook's shortest move, followed by
the bishop's shortest move. It is not hindered by intervening pawns or pieces. The pawn can
only be moved one square at a time, and that in a forward direction. Another pawn in front
of it stops its progress. A pawn has the power of capturing an opposite pawn in either of the
adjacent squares in advance and diagonally to the right or left of it when it moves into the
square of the one captured. The king is never captured. When a piece or pawn attacks him he
is said to be in check and the opposite player cries out "Check"! The attacked king is freed
from check by moving him to an adjacent square not occupied by a piece or pawn of the opposite
side, or else by opposing some piece to defend him from the check. If the player cannot resort
to either of these tactics to save his king he is "checkmated" and loses the game. A net standing
3 1/2 feet high is drawn across the middle and attached to two posts outside the court on each
side about three feet. The players stand on opposite sides of the net; the one who first delivers
the ball is called the server and the other the striker-out. At the end of each game they reverse
places. The server wins a stroke if the striker out "volley" the service, that is, he strike
the ball before it touches the ground; or if the ball is returned by the striker-out, so that
it drops outside his opponent's court, the latter wins the stroke.

The striker-out wins if the server serves two consecutive "faults," which consist in sending
the ball to the net or outside the lines; or if the server fail to return the ball in play,
the striker-out wins. Either player loses a stroke if the ball touch him in the act of striking,
if he touches the ball with his racket more than once, if he touch the net or any of its supports
while the ball is in play, or if he "volley" the ball before it has passed the net.

The player winning the first stroke gets a credit score of 15; for the second he gets 30; for
the third 40, and if he wins the fourth he has the game. Six games in succession entitle the
winner to a Set.

For a three-handed or four-handed game the Court requires to be 12 yards in width. In a three-handed
game the single player serves every alternate game. In the four-handed game the pair who have
the right to serve in the first game shall decide which partner shall do so and the opposing
pair shall decide in like manner for the second game. The partner of the player who served
in the first game shall serve in the third, and the partner of the player who served in the
second game shall serve in the fourth, and the same order is to be observed in all the succeeding
games of the set. If one partner of a double team strikes at a ball and does not touch it,
his partner still has the right to return it. A player or different member of a team may strike
at a ball as often as he pleases, for it is still in play until hit. The server must wait until
the striker-out is ready for the second service as well as the first, and if the striker-out
claims to be not ready and makes no effort to return the second service, the server cannot
claim the point, even though the service was good. If a player's racket touches the net after
the ball has struck the latter he does not loose a point.

The ball is always in play until it has struck the ground outside of the Court or has touched
the inside ground twice. A ball is "dead" the instant it strikes the ground outside of the
Court, and the point must be scored against the side sending the ball there, no matter what
happens after the ball touches the ground.

In selecting a site for a lawn tennis court select a level field. Lay it out north and south,
if possible so as to prevent the rays of the sun from blinding the players. The court may,
or may not, be grassy. As a general rule, sand courts are preferred. Level the court carefully,
so there will be no gradient or inequality in it. To make a foundation, use stones pounded
into place, and add top-soil to a depth of seven inches or more. The ground should be often
watered and rolled. Sand is usually mixed with clay for a top soil, as the sand is likely to
give under the running feet. In the case of a grassy court it should be constantly clipped
and in addition rolled once or twice a week to keep the ground hard and even.

POLO

Polo is a game played from horseback in a large, level field. There is a goal at each end of
the field in the center, the posts ten feet high and 24 feet apart. The teams are generally
four a side, but when possible a greater number may play. The regular game in this country
for teams of four is of four periods of 15 minutes of actual play each. To win a goal counts
one, and the team having the largest score at the end wins the match.

The equipment for the game besides the goal posts (which are generally of wood or papier-mache
to prevent serious accidents) are the balls and mallets. The balls are of willow 3 1/8 inches
in diameter, and weigh 5 ounces. The mallet sticks are of rattan cane, and from 4 to 4 1/2
feet long, set into square heads beveled at the sides and about 8 inches long and 2 wide. The
handles are leather-wrapped to insure a good grip. As to the ponies, no blinkers are used,
so that they may have a clear sight of the field. No rowels or spurs are permitted. The animals
have to be trained for the purpose.

Each of the four players of a side has certain rules to obey governing his position. It is
for Number 1 to watch the opposing back, to ride him off and clear the way for his own side
when they have the ball going towards the goal. All his energies must be directed to obtaining
a clear field for his side. He requires a fast pony to do the work.

The position of Number 2 is the most independent and the player is called the "flying man"
of the team. He must be an adept in "dribbling" out the ball so as to get a fair hit at it.
As it comes to him from his side players his part is to race with it, hitting as he gallops,
and in this way make the goal if he can.

It is the duty of Number 3 to help his back when the latter is being hard pressed and be ready
to exchange places with him when the back gets an opportunity to make a run with the ball.

Number 4 is the real back, for all the others are in front of him and consequently his is the
most important position. He must have a shifty pony well trained to riding work. He has to
defend the goal, and therefore must be an expert "backhander," that is, quick to send back
the ball to the opposing rank when it comes in the direction of his goal. It is the place of
the back to knock in when the ball goes over the end line. When he is sure of the half-back
player on his side he may go up into the game and make a leading attack himself, but it is
nearly always well for him to avoid meeting the ball, for if he misses, the goal is left defenceless.

On the whole, pony polo is an intricate game, and while it is not the sport of kings, it is
only adapted to the people of leisure with whom time and money are not an object.

HOCKEY

To play hockey a level field is required about 100 yards long and 50 yards wide. The space
is marked out in whitewash lines and small flags are placed at each corner. The long lines
are called side lines, and the shorter ones goal lines. Across the center, 50 yards from either
goal, is the center line. This divides the ground in half. These halves are again equally divided
by 25-yard lines. Five yards inside each line is marked a dotted line, parallel with the side
line, and which is called the five-yard line.

In the middle of each goal line and 4 yards apart are placed the goal posts, which are uprights
7 feet high, with a horizontal bar from one to the other. Fifteen yards in front of each goal
is drawn a line 4 yards long, parallel to the goal line; the ends of this line are brought
round in curves to meet the goal line and the space thus inclosed is called the "striking circle."

The stick and balls are the main requisites of hockey. The sticks are made of hickory. The
better kind have ash blades and cane handles, such handles giving a spring which sends a clean
drive without giving a jar to the hands. The balls used are about the size and weight of the
average baseball.

Nowadays it is customary to have nets behind the goal posts, so that it may be definitely determined
if there is any dispute whether the ball went clean through between the goal posts or past
the outside of either.

Hockey requires 22 players, 11 on each side, consisting of 5 forwards, 3 half-backs, 2 full-backs
and a goal-keeper. The center forward stands in the middle of the ground. On her right about
10 yards distant stands the inside right; the right wing stands between the 5-yard line and
the side line; the inside left and the left wing stand on the left of the center forward. The
half-backs stand 15 yards behind the forward. The center half takes her place directly in line
with the center forward; the right half covers the two right forwards, while the left half
covers the two left forwards. Behind, on the 25-yard line, stand the fullbacks, right and left;
the goalkeeper stands between the goal posts about a foot in front of the goal line.

The two center forwards start the game by "bullying off" the ball in the center of the field;
the ball is placed on the center line while the two forwards stand with a foot on either side
of the line facing each other and standing square to the side line; then the center halves
and left and inside forwards on the blowing of the whistle for the "bully," close up in order
to keep watch, each one ready to take the ball should it come in her direction. When one of
the center forwards gets the ball she tries to pass it out to either of her own inside players,
who endeavors to "dribble" it up the field until she is encountered by an opposition player,
at which juncture, by a quick stroke she passes it out to the wing player. It is in this manner,
by keeping a straight course and assisted by their halfbacks that the forwards by passing and
"dribbling" get the ball into the "striking circle," and when they get it that length it is
not a difficult matter to score a goal.

GOLF

In golf the player strikes a ball in the endeavor to send it to a particular spot. He is not
met with opposition in such endeavor, as in other ball games, his opponent having also a ball
which he, too, is trying to put into the same spot with fewer strokes. This spot into which
the player tries to put his ball is a small hole in the earth about 4-1/4 inches in diameter,
and the instruments he uses for doing so are exceedingly varied.

The game commences by a player hitting off from a marked line called the teeing-ground, the
ball in the direction of the first hole. In a regular golf course there are generally 18 holes,
their distance apart varying from about 100 yards to 500 yards. The smoothly kept grounds near
the holes is called the "putting-greens," and beside each "putting-green" is a marked teeing-ground.
After the ball has been struck from the "tee" the player must not touch it with his hand until
it is driven into the next hole, out of which he may then take it and "tee" it on the teeing
ground in a good position for the drive-off to the next hole.

As the holes are widely separated and the ground in many places uneven and broken up, the ball
will be driven into many positions, it will lie in the grass, in sand pits or bunkers, and
in all kinds of holes and hollows in the rough surface, therefore it will be readily understood
that the distance the ball is sent will vary with the stroke. It is to meet the difficulties
arising from having to strike the ball in its different positions that so many instruments
are called into requisition for the purpose. The names of the chief sticks and implements employed
in the sport are: driver, brassie, spoon, cleek, iron, mashie, niblick and putter. The driver,
brassie and spoon are wooden-headed clubs, but the others have always iron heads. The driver
is the club used for striking to the greatest distance when the ball is on the "tee," that
is, on the little mound of sand on which it is placed at the commencement of each hole, so
that more facility may be had in striking it. The putter is used on the putting--green, for
short strokes round about the holes. The putting--green or ground surrounding each hole is
kept level for about a radius of 20 yards from the hole. The different sticks or clubs are
graded from driver to putter in accordance with the different lengths of stroke for which they
are designed. For instance, the niblick is a short club for taking the ball out of difficult
positions ("lies") as when the latter gets into long grass, sand or some other awkward kind
of obstruction.

A good driver by well hitting the ball can send it to a distance of about 200 yards from the
tee. If the hole be so far off as to require a second stroke of equal length he can use the
driver again, provided the ball is on level ground, but it is likely it will not be on such
ground for the second stroke, and in such case the brassie or spoon is called on to do service.
Each of these instruments has the face that strikes the ball laid back more than in the driver,
so that they can lift it more easily off the ground. If the ball gets into a worse position,
as a bunker or sandpit, the use of the cleek, iron or niblick will become necessary. The heads
of these clubs are adjusted to deal with difficult "lies" that is, positions in which the ball
may be driven. The niblick is used for taking it out of especially bad situations.

The stroke called the full swing is used with the driver. There are many other modifications
of stroke, such as the three-quarter, the half and the wrist strokes.

As has been said, the issue of the game depends upon sending the ball into the holes with fewer
strokes than the opposition. Victory is gained by the side which holes the ball with less strokes.
If the sides hole out in the same number of strokes the hole is halved. A match is also won
by the side which is leading by a number of holes greater than the number of holes remaining
to be played. Thus if Jones has won six holes and Smith four, and seven holes have been halved,
Jones, in case the round is the ordinary length of 18 holes, will be two holes up, with only
one hole remaining to be played, and therefore he, Jones, wins the match. This is the general
manner of playing the game in a match, each player playing his own ball.

In what is known as "score" play the relative merits of several can be tested at the same time.
In this kind of play the total score of each player for all of the 18 holes is added up and
the player who has the lowest total is declared the winner.

ARCHERY

Archery has played an important part in the history of the race from the very earliest times.
Primitive man hurled his stone-pointed arrows at wild beasts, and as he advanced to a higher
state of the observances of the laws of force he fashioned bows to give a greater impulse to
his missiles. For hundreds of years the bow and arrow constituted the principal weapon of the
chase, and finally became the instrument of offence and defence for armored knights, warriors
and heroes. Robin Hood, roving the wild woods of Merry England, depended upon it for his prowess,
as did Allan a Dale and Little John. In the early battles it was the chief weapon, and did
effective service. In the battle of Hastings it decided the issue for William the Conqueror;
at Agincourt, Crecy and Poitiers victory depended on its use. Skilled archers became famous
all over the land, and many were their doughty deeds with the long bow.

In modern time, however, with the introduction of firearms, archery declined, until it came
to be but a mere memory of the past. The last century revived it, and to-day it is one of the
most popular sports in England. Americans, too, have taken it up with enthusiasm, and clubs
are interested in it all over the land, the ladies being especially devoted to it.

In 1879 the first organization of Archery Clubs was formed at Crawfordsville, Indiana, and
the first annual target meeting was held in Chicago in the same year.

Bows for archery are generally made out of tough soft wood, such as yew, with a flat outside
called the back and a rounded inside called the belly; they are always strung with latter side
inward. Lance wood is chiefly used in the United States on account of its resistance to heat.
The bow must be easily controlled, and not too heavy. The strain of drawing a heavy bow is
apt to pull the bow hand out of the line of sight. A 48-pound bow well drawn and loosed will
give a lower trajectory than one of 55 pounds sluggishly handled. By the weight of a bow is
not meant its avoirdupois, but the force necessary to draw the arrow to its head on the bow.
It is all important to know how to string the bow. Grasp the handle firmly with the right hand,
draw it near your right side, while the lower end rests against the inside of the right foot,
the back of the bow being toward you. With left foot well extended in front so as to brace
the body, rest the left hand on the bow below the loop of the upper end of the string, the
tip of the thumb and knuckle of forefinger pressing firmly on opposite edges of the bow. Draw
the bow firmly to you with the right hand, while you push down and away from you with the left.
A little practice will soon give the knack. No part of the body except the face must be turned
towards the target. Stand with the feet at right angles to the direction of the target and
have them a few inches apart. In handling the arrow avoid touching the feathers, and in the
act of drawing always keep the thumb and fourth finger away from the arrow and string. As the
bow is lifted, draw it three parts of the way, catch the aim, complete the draw and instantly
loose.

The arrows are an important consideration. Never use a light arrow with a heavy bow, nor, conversely,
a heavy arrow with a light bow. Arrows are generally made of one piece of wood, but sometimes
a harder kind is used for the part joining the tip and which is dovetailed into the shaft.
The tip is formed of steel, and is cylindrical in form. The length varies. A lady's bow of
5 feet calls for a 24-inch arrow, the customary length of men's arrows is 28 inches.

The target is a flat disc about four feet in diameter made from straw and covered with an oilcloth
or white sheet painted in concentric rings of gold, red, blue, black and white, each color
of which, when penetrated by the arrow counts so many points in the aim. The gold is the objective
point of the archer, the "bull's eye," as it is called. Three arrows are shot by each archer
in turn, then three more, the six constituting an end. A certain number of ends complete a
given range, while two or three ranges form a round. Here is the American round:

30 arrows at 60 yards. 30 arrows at 50 yards. 30 arrows at 40 yards.

RING TOSS

This is a very simple game. A stake is driven into the ground for a flagstaff. At a distance
of, say nine feet, stakes are arranged as follows: four at equal distances, back of these,
at a short distance, three; then two; then one. The setting for nine pins is the same.

Each stake is numbered from ten, beginning on the left hand side, to one hundred, which is
the apex of the setting.

Iron rings are tossed from the flagstaff by each player. A score is kept. The one getting the
greatest number of points is the winner.

LAWN BOWLS

Lawn bowls, although but recently introduced into the United States, is, however, one of the
oldest games in existence, and is believed to have been played by the Ancient Greeks and Romans.
Scotland has brought this game to its present state of perfection. The game is played as follows:

Select a level lawn, or a floor will answer if this game be played indoors. Choose sides, giving
those of a side, balls of a similar color.

A ball of a third color is called the Jack. The one holding it begins the play by rolling the
ball over the lawn. Where it stops is the goal. The others try to strike the Jack. The one
doing this is the winner of the game. Or put a nine pin, or nine pins, at a distance from the
players, and try to strike as is done in a bowling alley. The guests are attired in white to
represent snow, or they may appear in fur-trimmed garments. At midnight all sing "Auld Lang
Syne," and shake hands. Calendars are appropriate souvenirs for the occasion. At midnight all
wish each other "A Happy New Year."

CHILDREN'S NEW YEAR GAMES

Give the children pencils and paper. Let them write out their resolutions for the New Year.
These may be grave or funny as desired. Give calendars as souvenirs.

LINCOLN'S DAY

Recite poems about Lincoln. Tell stories about him. Explain why "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is a suitable
book to read on this day.

If possible give tableaux suited to the occasion. Those taken from Uncle Tom's Cabin are eminently
suitable.

VALENTINE PARTY

The evening is opened with the playing of a game of hearts. Each lady receives a red paper
heart, and is requested to write her name on the back of it. The hearts are shuffled and put
in a bowl; the men's hearts are put in another bowl. A lady chooses a heart from the men's
bowl, then a man chooses from the ladies' bowl. The lady is partner for the evening of the
man whose heart she drew and vice versa.

Valentines are given, and are read aloud by the recipient. Comic ones are admissible if not
vulgar. Valentine mottoes also are given.

WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY

A Martha Washington party in costume with a supper in Colonial time style. Dance the Minuet
and old-time dances.

FOR APRIL FIRST

This is April Fool's Day. It may be made the occasion of a party. Games suitable to the occasion
are played; among them pinning a tail to the picture of a tailless donkey fastened on the wall.
This may be drawn by one of the children. Tails are slightly pinned on the children among themselves.
April fool candy is served, and glasses are offered which appear to have lemonade in them,
but which are so made that no liquor can be drunk from them, etc. The one who is not fooled
all evening receives a prize--the funnier it is the better. It may be a "nigger doll" or the
like. A donkey is given as a booby prize to the one most often fooled. This fooling can be
done in any way which suggests itself.

EASTER EGG PARTIES

Color hard-boiled eggs and hide them. Give your little guests pretty baskets and let them hunt
for the eggs, or give each a large wooden spoon to spoon them up. If you live in the country
roll eggs down hill at one place as a target at the foot of it.

Draw a bunny holding an egg. Pin it to the wall. The one who, blindfolded, succeeds in putting
a pin in the egg receives eggs as presents.

FLAG DAY

Display flags liberally. Tell stories about the American Flag. Sing "America," "Star-Spangled
Banner," etc. Salute "Old Glory."

A HALLOWE'EN PARTY

The usual Hallowe'en tricks are tried such as the following: A ring, a piece of money and a
thimble are hidden; the player who finds the ring will be first married, or these articles
may be baked in a cake which is cut and distributed. The one getting the money will be prosperous,
the getter of the thimble industrious, the getter of the ring will soon be married.

BOBBING FOR APPLES

Bobbing for apples. All children like this. In a tub of water several apples float. The children
try to capture them with their teeth.

FLOATING NEEDLES

Grease needles and let them float in a bowl of water, upon which tissue paper is laid. Each
child has his, or her, own needle. It is amusing to watch the action of the needle when the
paper sinks--as it does when it becomes saturated--the needles rush about.

CANDLE AND LOOKING-GLASS

Each person in turn walks downstairs backwards, alone in the dark, with a looking-glass in
one hand and a lighted candle in the other. The future husband or wife will be seen--? Or,
run around the house three times with your mouth full of water--at midnight.

Melted lead poured into water results in queer figures which sometimes resemble initials; these
are supposed to be those of the future husband or wife.

