"That was a night, Joel. A slow-winded, warm, trembling night when there was a song in the
very air. The wind tingled on your throat like a woman's finger tips; and the sea was singing
at the one side, and the wind in the palms on the other. And ahead of me, the wild, discordant
chanting of the Islanders about their fires.... That singing it was that got me by the throat,
and led me. I twirled around and around, very solemnly, by myself in the moonlight on the sand;
and all the time I went onward toward the fires....

"I remember, when I came in sight of the fires, I threw away my coat and ran in among them.
And they scattered, and yelled their harsh, meaningless, throaty yells. And they hid in the
bush to stare at me by the fire.... They hid in the rank, thick grasses. All except one, Joel."

Joel, listening, watched his brother and saw through his brother's eyes; for he knew, for all
his slow blood, the witchery of those warm, southern nights.

"The moon was on her," said Mark. "The moon was on her, and there was a red blossom in her
hair, and some strings of things that clothed her. A little brown girl, with eyes like the
eyes of a deer. And--not afraid of me. That was the thing that got me, Joel. She stood in my
path, met me, watched me; and her eyes were not afraid....

"She was very little. She was only a child. I suppose we would call her sixteen or seventeen
years old. But they ripen quickly, Joel--these Island children. Her little shoulders were as
smooth and soft.... You could not even mark the ridge of her collar bones, she was fleshed
so sweetly. She stood, and watched me; and the others crept out of the grasses, at last, and
stood about us. And then this little brown girl held up her hand to me, and pointed me out
to the others, and said something. I did not know what it was that she said; but I know now.
She said that I was sick.

"I did not know then that I was sick. When she lifted her hand to me, I caught it; and I began
to lead her in a wild dance, in the moonlight, about their dying fires. I could see them, in
the shadows, their eyeballs shining as they watched us.... And they seemed, after a little,
to move about in a misty, inhuman fashion; and they twisted into strange, cloud-like shapes.
And I stopped to laugh at them, and my head dropped down before I could catch it and struck
against the earth, and the earth forsook me, Joel, and left me swimming in nothing at all....

"My memory was a long time in coming back to me, Joel. It would peep out at me like a timid
child, hiding among the trees. I would see it for an instant; then 'twould be gone. But I know
it must have been many days that I was on the island there. And I knew, after a time, that
I was most extremely sick; and the little brown girl put cool leaves on my head, and gave me
strange brews to drink, and rubbed and patted my chest and my body with her hands in a fashion
that was immensely comfortable and strengthening. And I twisted on a bed of coarse grass....
And I remember singing, at times...."

He looked toward Joel, eyes suddenly flaming. "Eh, Joel, I tell you I was not three pagans,
but six, in those days. The thing's clear beyond your guessing, Joel. But it was big. An immense
thing. I was back at the beginning of the world, with food, and drink, and my woman.... It
was big, I tell you. Big!"

His eyes clouded--he fell silent, and so at last went on again. "I was asleep one night, tossing
in my sleep. And something woke me. And I laid my hand on the spot beside me where the little
brown girl used to lie, and she was gone. So I got up, unsteadily. There were rifles snapping
in the night; and there were screams. And I heard a white man's black curse; and the slap of
a blow of flesh on flesh. And the screams.

"So I went that way; and the sounds retreated before me, until I came out, unsteadily, upon
the open beach. There was no moon, that night; and the water of the lagoon was shot with fire.
And there was a boat, pulling away from the beach, with screaming in it.

"I swam after the boat for a long time, for I thought I had heard the voice of the little brown
girl. The water was full of fire. When I lifted my arms, the fire ran down them in streams
and drops. And sometimes I forgot what I was about, and stopped to laugh at these drops of
fire. But in the end, I always swam on. I remember once I thought the little brown girl swam
beside me, and I tried to throw my arm about her, and she wrenched away, and she burned me
like a brand. I found, afterwards, what that was. My breast and sides were rasped and raw where
a shark's rough skin had scraped them. I've wondered, Joel, why the beast did not take me....

"But he did not; for I bumped at last into the boat, and climbed into it, and it was empty.
But I saw a rope at the end of it, and I pulled the rope, and came to the schooner's stern,
and climbed aboard her."

His voice was ringing, exultantly and proudly. "I swung aboard," he said. "And I stumbled over
fighting bodies on the deck, astern there. And some one cried out, in the waist of her; and
I knew it was the little brown girl. So I left those struggling bodies at the stern, for they
were not my concern; and I went forward to the waist. And I found her there.

"A fat man had her. She was fighting him; and he did not see me. And I put my fingers quietly
into his neck, from behind; and when he no longer kicked back at me, and no longer tore at
my fingers with his, I dropped him over the side. I saw a fiery streak in the water where I
dropped him. That shark was not so squeamish as the one I had--embraced. It may have been the
other was embarrassed at my ways, Joel. D'ye think that might have been the way of it?"

Joel's knuckles were white, where his hand rested on his knee. Mark saw, and laughed softly.
"There's blood in you, after all, boy," he applauded. "I've hopes for you."

Joel said slowly: "What then? What then, Mark?"

Mark laughed. "Well, that was a very funny thing," he said. "You see, the other two men, they
were busy, astern, with their own concerns. And when I had comforted the little brown girl,
and sat down on the deck to laugh at the folly of it all, she slipped away from me, and went
aft, and got all their rifles. She brought them to me. She seemed to expect things of me. So
I, still laughing, for the fever was on me; I took the rifles and threw them, all but one,
over the side. And I went down into the cabin, with the little brown girl, and went to bed;
and she sat beside me, with the rifle, and a lamp hanging above the door....

"And that was all that happened, until I woke one morning and saw her there, and wondered where
I was. And my head was clear again. She made me understand that the men had sought to come
at me, but had feared the rifle in her hands....

"And we were in the open sea, as I could feel by the labor of the schooner underfoot. So I
took the rifle in the crook of my arm, and with the little brown girl at my heel, I went up
on deck. And we made a treaty."

He fell silent for a moment, and Joel watched him, and waited. And at last, Mark went on.

"I had been more than a month on the island," he said. "The Nathan Ross had gone. This schooner
was a pearler, and they had the location of a bed of shell. They had been waiting till another
schooner should leave the place, to leave their own way clear. And when that time came, they
went ashore to get the brown women for companions on that cruise. And they made the mistake
of picking up my little brown girl, when she ran out of the hut. And so brought me down upon them.

"There were two of them left; two whites, and three black men forward, who were of no account.
And the other two women. These other two were chattering together, on the deck astern, when
I appeared. They seemed content enough....

"The men were not happy. There was a large man with slanting eyes. There was Oriental blood
in him. You could see that. He called himself Quint. But his eyes were Jap, or Chinese; and
he had their calm, blank screen across his countenance, to hide what may have been his thoughts.
Quint, he called himself. And he was a big man, and very much of a man in his own way, Joel.

"The other was little, and he walked with a slink and a grin. His name was Fetcher. And he
was oily in his speech.

"When they saw me, they studied me for a considerable time without speech. And I stood there,
with the rifle in my arm, and laughed at them. And at last, Quint said calmly:

"'You took Farrell.'

"'The fat man?' I asked him. He nodded. 'Yes,' I said. 'He took my girl, and so I dropped him
into the water, and a friend met him there and hurried him away.'

"'Your girl?' he echoed, in a nasty way. 'You're that, then?'

"'Am I?' I asked, and shifted the rifle a thought to the fore. And his eyes held mine for a
space, and then he shook his head.

"'I see that I was mistaken,' he said.

"'Your sight is good,' I told him. 'Now--what is this? Tell me.'

"He told me, evenly and without malice. They had a line on the pearls; there were enough for
three. I was welcome. And at the end, I nodded my consent. The Nathan Ross was gone. Furthermore,
there were nine pagans in me now; and the prospect of looting some still lagoon, in company
with these two rats, had a wild flavor about it that caught me. My blood was burning; and the
sun was hot. Also, they had liquor aboard her. Liquor, and loot, and the three women. Pagan,
Joel. Pagan! But wild and red and raw. There's a glory about such things.... Songs are made
of them.... There was no handshaking; but we made alliance, and crowded on sail, and went on
our way."

He stopped short, laughed, filled his pipe again, watched Joel. "You're shocked with me, boy.
I can see it," he taunted mockingly. Joel shook his head. "Will you hear the rest?" Mark asked;
and Joel nodded. Mark lighted his pipe, laughed.... His fingers thrummed on the desk beside him.

"We were a week on the way," he said. "And all pagan, every minute of the week. Days when we
fought a storm--as bad as I've ever seen, Joel. We fought it, holding to the ropes with our
teeth, bare to the waist, with the wind scourging us. It tore at us, and lashed at us.... And
we drove the three black men with knives to their work. And the three women stayed below, except
my little brown girl. She came up, now and then, with dry clothes for me.... And I had to drive
her to shelter....

"And when there was not the storm, there was liquor; and they had cards. We staked our shares
in the catch that was to come.... Hour on hour, dealing, and playing with few words; and our
eyes burned hollow in their sockets, and Quint's thin mouth twisted and writhed all the time
like a worm on a pin. He was a nervous man, for all his calm. A very nervous man....

"The fifth day, one of the blacks stumbled in Quint's path, on deck. Quint had been losing,
at the cards. He slid a knife from his sleeve into the man's ribs, and tipped the black over
the rail without a word. I was twenty feet away, and it was done before I could catch breath.
I shouted; and Quint turned and looked at me, and he smiled.

"'What is it?' he asked. 'Have you objections to present?' And the smeared blade in his hand,
and the bubbles still rising, overside. I was afraid of the man, Joel. I tell you I was afraid.
The only time. Fear's a pagan joy, boy. It was like a new drink to me. I nursed it, eating
it. And I shook my head, humble.

"'No objections,' I said, to Quint. ''Tis your affair.'

"'That was my thought,' he agreed, and passed me, and went astern. I stood aside to let him
pass, and trembled, and laughed for the joy of my fear.

"And then we came to the lagoon, and the blacks began to dive. Only the two we had; and there
was no sign of Islanders, ashore. But the water was shallow, and we worked the men with knives,
and they got pearls. Sometimes one or two in a day; sometimes a dozen. Do you know pearls,
Joel? They're sweet as a woman's skin. I had never seen them, before. And we all went a little
mad over them....

"They made Fetcher hysterical. He laughed too much. They made Quint morose. They made me tremble...."

He wiped his hand across his eyes, as though the memory wearied him; and he moved his great
shoulders, and looked at Joel, and laughed. "But it could not last, in that fashion," he said.
"It might have been anything. It turned out to be the women. I said they seemed content. They
did. But that may be the way of the blacks. They have a happy habit of life; they laugh easily....

"At any rate, we found one morning that Quint's girl was gone. She was not on the schooner;
and ashore, we found her tracks in the sand. She had gone into the trees. And we beat the island,
and we did not find her. And Quint sweated. All that day.

"That night, he looked at my little brown girl, and touched her shoulder. I was across the
deck, the girl coming to me with food. I said to him: 'No. She's mine, Quint.' And he looked
at me, and I beat him with my eyes. And as his turned from mine, Fetcher and his woman came
on deck, and Quint tapped Fetcher, and said to him: 'What will you take for her?'

"Fetcher laughed at him; and Quint scowled. And I--for I was minded to see sport, came across
to them and said: 'Play for her. Play for her!'

"Fetcher was willing; because he had the blood that gambles anything. Quint was willing, because
he was the better player. They sat down to the game, in the cabin, after supper. Poker. Cold
hands. Nine of them. Winner of five to win....

"Fetcher got two, lost four, got two more. I was dealing. Card by card, face upward. I remember
those hands. And my little brown girl, and the other, watching from the corner.

"The hands on the table grew, card by card. Fetcher got an ace, Quint a deuce. Fetcher a queen,
Quint a seven. Fetcher a jack, Quint a six. Fetcher a ten, Quint a ten. Only the last card
to come to each. If Fetcher paired any card, he would win. His card came first. It was a seven.
He was ace, queen high. Quint had deuce, six, seven, ten. He had to get a pair to win....

"I saw Quint's hand stir, beneath the table; and I glimpsed a knife in it. But before I could
speak, or stir, Fetcher dropped his own hand to his trouser leg, and I knew he kept a blade
there.... So I laughed, and dealt Quint's last card....

"A deuce. He had a pair, enough to win....

"He leaned back, laughing grimly; and Fetcher's knife went in beneath the left side of his
jaw, where the jugular lies. Quint looked surprised, and got up out of his chair and lay down
quietly across the table. I heard the bubbling of his last breath.... Then Fetcher laughed,
and called his woman, and they took Quint on deck and tipped him overside. The knife had been
well thrown. Fetcher had barely moved his wrist.... I was much impressed with the little man,
and told my brown girl so. But she was frightened, and I comforted her."

He was silent again for a time, pressing the hot ashes in his pipe with his thumb. The water
slapped the broad stern of the ship beneath them, and Joel's pipe was gurgling. There was no
other sound. Little Priss, nails biting her palms, thought she would stream if the silence
held an instant more....

But Mark laughed softly, and went on.

"Fetcher and I worked smoothly together," he said. "The little man was very pleasant and affable;
and I met him half way. The blacks brought up the shells, and we idled through the days, and
played cards at night. We divided the take, each day; so our stakes ran fairly high. But luck
has a way of balancing. On the day when we saw the end in sight, we were fairly even....

"Fetcher, and the blacks and I went ashore to get fruit from the trees there. Plenty of it
everywhere; and we were running short. We went into the brush together, very pleasantly; and
he fell a little behind. I looked back, and his knife brushed my neck and quivered in a tree
a yard beyond me. So I went back and took him in my hands. He had another knife--the little
man fairly bristled with them. But it struck a rib, and before he could use it again, his neck
snapped.

"So that I was alone on the schooner, with the two blacks, and Fetcher's woman, and the little
brown girl.

"Fetcher's woman went ashore to find him and never came back. And I decided it was time for
me to go away from that place. The pagans were dying in me. I did not like that quiet little
island any more.

"But the next morning, when I looked out beyond the lagoon, another schooner was coming in.
So I was uncomfortable with Fetcher's pearls, as well as mine, in my pocket. There are some
hard men in these seas, Joel; and I knew none of them would treasure me above my pearls. So
I planned a story of misfortune, and I went ashore to hide my pearls under a rock.

"The blacks had brought me ashore. I went out of their sight to do what I had to do; and when
I came back, after hiding the pearls, I saw them rowing very swiftly toward the schooner. And
they looked back at me in a fearful way. I wondered why; and then four black men came down
on me from behind, with knives and clubs.

"I had a very hard day, that day. They hunted me back and forth through the island--I had not
even a knife with me--and I met them here and there, and suffered certain contusions and bruises
and minor cuts. Also, I grew very tired of killing them. They were wiry, but they were small,
and died easily. So I was glad, when from a point where they had cornered me I saw the little
brown girl rowing the big boat toward me.

"She was alone. The blacks were afraid to come, I thought. But I found afterward that this
was not true. They could not come; for they had tried to seize the schooner and go quickly
away from that place, and the little brown girl had drilled them both. She had a knack with
the rifle....

"I waded to meet the boat, and she tossed me the gun. I held them off for a little, while we
drew away from the shore. But when we were thirty or forty yards off, I heard rifles from the
other schooner, firing past us at the blacks in the bush; and the girl stopped rowing. So I
turned around and saw that one of the balls from the other schooner had struck her in the back.
So I sat there, in the sun, drifting with the wind, and held her in my arms till she coughed
and died.

"Then I went out to the other schooner and told them they were bad marksmen. They had only
been passing by, for copra; and the story I told them was a shocking one. They were much impressed,
and they seemed glad to get away. But the blacks were still on shore, so that I could not go
back for the pearls; and I worked the schooner out by myself, and shaped a course....

"I came to Tubuai, alone thus, a day before you, Joel."

IX

For a long time after Mark's story ended, the two brothers sat still in the cabin, puffing
at their pipes, thinking.... Mark watched Joel, waiting for the younger man to speak. And Joel's
thoughts ranged back, and picked up the tale in the beginning, and followed it through once
more....

They were silent for so long that little Priss, in the cabin, drifted from waking dreams to
dreams in truth. The pictures Mark's words had conjured up merged with troubled phantasies,
and she twisted and cried out softly in her sleep so that Joel went in at last to be sure she
was not sick. But while he stood beside her, she passed into quiet and untroubled slumber,
and he came back and sat down with Mark again.

"You brought the schooner into Tubuai?" he asked.

"Aye. Alone. Half a thousand miles. There's a task, Joel."

"And left it there?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

Mark smiled grimly. "It was known there," he said quietly. "Also, the three whom I had found
aboard it were known. And they had friends in Tubuai, who wondered what had come to them. I
was beginning to--find their questions troublesome--when the Nathan Ross came in."

"They will ask more questions now," said Joel.

"They must ask them of the schooner; and--she does not speak," Mark told him.

Joel was troubled and uncertain. "It's--a black thing," he said.

"They'll not be after me, if that distresses you," Mark promised him. "Curiosity does not go
to such lengths in these waters."

"You told no one?"

Mark laughed. "The pearls were--my own concern. You're the first I've told." He watched his
brother. Joel frowned thoughtfully, shook his head.

"You plan to go back for them?" he asked.

"You and I," said Mark casually. Joel looked at him in quick surprise; and Mark laughed. "Yes,"
he repeated. "You and I. I am not selfish, Joel. Besides--there are plenty for two."

Joel, for an instant, found no word; and Mark leaned quickly toward him. He tapped Joel's knee.
"We'll work up that way," he said quietly. "When we come to the island, you and I go ashore,
and get them where they're hid beneath the rock; and we come back aboard with no one any wiser....
Rich. A double handful of them, Joel...."

Joel's eyes were clouded with thought; he shook his head slowly. "What of the blacks?" he asked.

Mark laughed. "They were brought down on us by the woman who got away," he said. "Quint's woman.
I heard as much that day, saw her among them. But--they're gone before this."

Joel said slowly: "You are not sure of that. And--I cannot risk the ship...."

Mark asked sneeringly: "Are you afraid?"

The younger man flushed; but he said steadily: "Yes. Afraid of losing Asa Worthen's ship for him."

Mark chuckled unpleasantly. "I'm minded of what is written, here and there, in the 'Log of
the House of Shore,'" he said, half to himself. And he quoted: "'All the brothers were valiant....'
There's more to that, Joel. 'And all the sisters virtuous.' I had not known we had sisters--but
it seems you're one, boy. Not valiant, by your own admission; but at least you're fairly virtuous."

Joel paid no heed to the taunt. "Asa Worthen likes care taken of his ship," he said, half to
himself. "I'm thinking he would not think well of this.... He's not a man to gamble...."

"Gamble?" Mark echoed scornfully. "He has no gamble in this. The pearls are for you and me.
He will know nothing whatever about them. A handful for me, and a handful for you, Joel. For
the taking...."

"You did not think to give him owner's lay?" Joel asked.

"No."

"Where is this island?"

Mark laughed. "I'll not be too precise--until I have your word, Joel. But--'tis to the northward."

"Our course is west, then south."

"Since when has the Nathan Ross kept schedule and time table like a mail ship?"

Joel shook his head. "I cannot do it, Mark."

"Why not?"

"A risk I have no right to take; and wasted weeks, out of our course. For which Asa Worthen pays."

Mark smiled sardonically. "You're vastly more virtuous than any sister could be, Joel, my dear."

Joel said steadily: "There may be two minds about that. There may be two minds as to--the duty
of a captain to his ship and his owner. But--I've shown you my mind in the matter."

Mark leaned toward him, eyes half-friendly. "You're wrong, Joel. I'll convince you."

"You'll not."

"A handful of them," Mark whispered. "Worth anything up to a hundred thousand. Maybe more.
I do not know the little things as well as some. All for a little jog out of your way...."

Joel shook his head. And Mark, in a sudden surge of anger, stormed to his feet with clenched
hand upraised. "By the Lord, Joel, I'd not have believed it. You're mad; plain mad--sister,
dear! You...."

Joel said quietly: "Your schooner is at Tubuai. I'll set you back there, if you will."

Mark mocked him. "Would you throw your own brother off the ship he captained?... Oh hard, hard
heart...."

"You may stay, or go," Joel told him. "Have your way."

Mark's eyes for an instant narrowed; they turned toward the door of the cabin where Priss lay....
And there was a flicker of black hatred in them, but his voice was suave when he replied: "With
your permission, captain dear, I'll stay."

Joel nodded; he rose. "Young Morrell has given you his bunk," he said. "So--good night, to you."

He opened the door into the main cabin; and Mark, his fingers twitching, went out. He turned,
spoke over his shoulder. "Good night; and--pleasant dreams," he said.

X

Even Joel Shore saw the new light in Priscilla's eyes when she met Mark at breakfast in the
cabin next morning; and it is said husbands are the last to see such things.

That story she had heard the night before, the story Mark told Joel in the after cabin, had
made of him something superhuman in her eyes. He was a gigantic, an epic figure; he had lived
red life, and fought for his life, and killed.... There was Puritan blood in Priscilla; but
overrunning it was a flood of warmer life, a cross-strain from some southern forebear, which
sang now in answer to the touch of Mark's words. She watched him, that morning, with wide eyes
that were full of wonder and of awe.

Mark saw, and was immensely amused. He asked her: "Why do you look at me like that, little
sister? I'm not going to bite...."

Priscilla caught herself, and smiled, and laughed at him. "How do I look at you? You're--imagining
things, Mark."

"Am I?" he asked. And he touched Joel's arm. "Look at her, Joel, and see which of us is right."

Joel was eating his breakfast silently, but he had seen Priscilla's eyes. He looked toward
her now, and she flushed in spite of herself, and got up quickly, and slipped away.... They
watched her go, Joel's eyes clouded thoughtfully, Mark's shining. And when she was gone, Mark
leaned across and said to Joel softly, a devil of mischief in his eyes: "She heard my tale
last night, Joel. She was not asleep. Fooled you...."

Joel shook his head. "No. She was asleep."

Mark laughed. "Don't you suppose I know. I've seen that look in woman's eyes before. In the
eyes of the little brown girl, the night I dropped the fat man overside...."

He sat there, chuckling, when Joel got abruptly to his feet and went on deck; and when he came
up the companion a little later, he was still chuckling under his breath.

After that first morning, Priss was able to cloak her eyes and hide her thoughts; and on the
surface, life aboard the Nathan Ross seemed to go on as before. Mark threw himself into the
routine of the work, mixing with the men, going off in the boats when there was a whale to
be struck, doing three men's share of toil. Joel one day remonstrated with him. "It is not
wise," he said. "You were captain here; you are my brother. It is not wise for you to mix,
as an equal, with the men."

Mark only laughed at him. "Your dignity is very precious to you, Joel," he mocked. "But as
for me--I am not proud. You'd not have me sit aft and twiddle my thumbs and hold yarn for little
Priss.... And I must be doing something...."

He and Jim Finch were much together. Finch always gave Joel careful obedience, always handled
the ship when he was in charge with smooth efficiency. His boat was the best manned and the
most successful of the four. But he and Joel were not comradely. Joel instinctively disliked
the big man; and Finch's servility disgusted him. The mate was full of smooth and flattering
words, but his eyes were shallow.

Mark talked with him long, one morning; and then he left Finch and came to Joel, by the after
house, chuckling as though at some enormous jest. "Will ye look at Finch, there?" he begged.

Joel had been watching the two. He saw Finch now, standing just forward of the boat house with
flushed cheeks and eyes fixed and hands twitching. The big man was powerfully moved by something....
"What is it that's got him?" Joel asked.

"I've told him about the pearls," Mark chuckled. "He's wild to be after them...."

Joel turned on his brother hotly. "You're mad, Mark," he snapped. "That is no word to be loose
in the ship."

"I've but told Finch," Mark protested. "It's mirthful to watch the man wiggle."

"He'll tell the ship. His tongue wags unceasingly."

Mark lifted his shoulders. "Tell him to be silent. You should keep order on your ship, Joel."

Joel beckoned, and Finch came toward them. As he came, he fought for self control; and when
he stood before them, his lips were twisting into something like a smile, and his eyes were
shifty and gleaming. Joel said quietly:

"Mr. Finch, my brother says he has told you his story."

"Yes, sir," said Finch. "An extraordinary adventure, Captain Shore."

"I think it best the men should know nothing about it," Joel told him. "You will please keep
it to yourself."

Finch grinned. "Of course, sir. There's no need they should have any share in them."

Joel flushed angrily. "We are not going after them. I consider it dangerous, and unwise."

Over Finch's fat cheeks swept a twitching grimace of dismay. "But I thought...." He looked
at Mark, and Mark was chuckling. "It's so easy, sir," he protested. "Just go, and get them....
Rich...."

Joel shook his head. "Keep silent about the matter, Finch."

Finch slowly bowed his head, and he smirked respectfully. "Very well, Captain Shore," he agreed.
"You always know best, sir."

He turned away; and after a little Mark said softly: "You have him well trained, Joel. Like
a little dog.... I wonder that you can handle men so...."

Two days later, Joel knew that either Finch or Mark had told the tale anew. Young Dick Morrell
came to him with shining eyes. "Is it true, sir, that we're going after the pearls your brother
hid?" he asked. "I just heard...."

Joel gripped the boy's arm. "Who told you?"

Morrell twisted free, half angry. "I--overheard it, sir. Is it true?"

"No," said Joel. "We're a whaler, and we stick to our trade."

Dick lifted both hands, in a gesture almost pleading. "But it would be so simple, sir...."

"Keep the whole matter quiet, Morrell," Joel told him. "I do not wish the men to know of it.
And if you hear any further talk, report it to me."

Morrell's eyes were sulky. He said slowly: "Yes, sir." The set of his shoulders, as he stalked
forward, seemed to Joel defiant....

Within the week, the whole ship knew the story. Old Aaron Burnham, repairing a bunk in the
fo'c's'le, heard the men whispering the thing among themselves. "Tongues hissing like little
serpents, sir," he told Joel, in the cabin that night. "All of pearls, and women, and the like....
And a shine in their eyes...."

"Thanks, Aaron," Joel said. "I'm sorry the men know...."

"Aye, they know. Be sure of that," Aaron repeated, with bobbing head. "And they're roused by
what they know. Some say you're going after the pearls, and aim to fraud them of their lay.
And some say you're a mad fool that will not go...."

Joel's fist, on the table, softly clenched. "What else?" he asked.

Aaron watched him sidewise. "There was a whisper that you might be made to go...."

Priscilla saw, that night, that Joel was troubled. She and Mark were together on the cushioned
seat in the after cabin, and Joel sat at his desk, over the log. Mark was telling Priss an
expurgated version of some one of his adventures; and Joel, looking once or twice that way,
saw the quick-caught breath in her throat, saw her tremulous interest.... And his eyes clouded,
so that when Priscilla chanced to look toward him, she saw, and cried:

"Joel! What's the matter? You look so...."

He looked from one of them to the other for a space; and then his eyes rested on Mark's, and
he said slowly: "It's in my mind that I'd have done best to set you ashore at Tubuai, Mark."

Mark laughed; but Priss cried hotly: "Joel! What a perfectly horrible thing to say!" Her voice
had grown deeper and more resonant of late, Joel thought. It was no longer the voice of a girl,
but of a woman.... Mark touched her arm.

"Don't care about him," he told her. "That's only brotherly love...."

"He oughtn't to say it."

Joel said quietly: "This is a matter you do not understand, Priscilla. You would do well to
keep silent. It is my affair."

A month before, this would have swept Priss into a fury of anger; but this night, though her
eyes burned with slow resentment, she bit her lips and was still. A month ago, she would have
forgotten over night. Now she would remember....

Mark got up, laughed. "He's bad company, Priss," he told her. "Come on deck with me."

She rose, readily enough; and they went out through the main cabin, and up the companionway.
Joel watched them go. They left open the door into the cabin, and he heard Varde and Finch,
at the table there, talking in husky whispers.... It was so, he knew, over the whole ship.
Everywhere, the men were whispering.... There hung over the Nathan Ross a cloud as definite
as a man's hand; and every man scowled--save Mark Shore. Mark smiled with malicious delight
at the gathering storm he had provoked....

Joel, left in the after cabin, felt terribly lonely. He wanted Priss with him, laughing, at
his side. His longing for her was like a hot coal in his throat, burning there. And she had
taken sides with Mark, against him.... His shoulders shook with the sudden surge of his desire
to grip Mark's lean throat.... Ashore, he would have done so. But as things were, the ship
was his first charge; and a break with Mark would precipitate the thing that menaced the ship....
He could not fight Mark without risking the Nathan Ross; and he could not risk the Nathan Ross.
Not even.... His head dropped for an instant in his arms, and then he got up quickly, and shook
himself, and set his lips.... No man aboard must see the trouble in his heart....

He went through the main cabin, and climbed to the deck. There was some sea running, and a
wind that brushed aside all smaller sounds, so that he made little noise. Thus, when he reached
the top of the companion, he saw two dark figures in the shadows of the boat house, closely
clasped....

He stood for an instant, white hot.... His wife, and Mark.... His little Priss, and his brother....

Then he went quietly below, and glanced at the chart, and chose a course upon it. The nearest
land; he and Mark ashore together.... His blood ran hungrily at the thought....

XI

Priscilla went on deck that night so angry with Joel that she could have killed him; and Mark
played upon her as a skilled hand plays upon the harp. It was such a night as the South Seas
know, warm and languorous, the wind caressing, and the salt spray stinging gently on the cheek.
The moon was near the full, and it laid a path of silver on the water. This path was like the
road to fairyland; and Mark told Priscilla so. He dropped into a gay little phantasy that he
conceived on the moment, a story of fairies, and of dancing in the moonlight, and of a man
and a woman, hand in hand....

She felt the spell he laid upon her, and struggled against it. "Tell me about the last fight,
when the little brown girl was killed," she begged.

He had told her snatches of his story here and there; but he had not, till that night, spoken
of the pearls. When Priss heard of them, she swung about and lifted up her face to his, listening
like a child. And Mark told the story with a tongue of gold, so that she saw it all; the lagoon,
blue in the sun; and the schooner creeping in from the sea; and the hours of flight through
the semi-jungle of the island, with the blacks in such hot pursuit. He told her of the times
when they surrounded him, when he fought himself free.... How he got a great stone and gripped
it in his hand, and how with this stone he crushed the skull of a young black with but one
eye. Priss shuddered with delicious horror at the tale....

She loved best to hear of the little brown girl whom Mark had loved; and that would have told
either of them, if they had stopped to consider, that she did not love Mark. Else she would
have hated the other, brown or white.... And he told how the brown girl saved him, and gave
her life in the saving, and how he had stopped at a little atoll on his homeward way and buried
her.... She had died in his arms, smiling because she lay there....

"And the pearls?" Priss asked, when she had heard the story through. "You left them there?"

"There they are still," he told her. "Safely hid away."

"How many?" she asked. "Are they lovely?"

"Three big ones, and thirty-two of a fair size, and enough little ones and seeds to make a
double handful."

"But why did you leave them there?"

"The black men were on the island. They were there, and watchful, and very angry."

"Couldn't you have kept them in your pocket?"

He laughed. "That other schooner made me cautious. Man's life is cheap, in such matters. And
if they guessed I had such things upon me.... If I slept too soundly, or the like.... D'ye see?"

She nodded her dark head. "I see. But you'll go back...."

He chuckled at that, and tapped on the rail with one knuckle, in a thoughtful way. "I had thought
that Joel and I would go, in the Nathan Ross, and fetch the things away," he said.

"Of course," she exclaimed. "That would be so easy.... I'd love to see the--pearls...."

"Easy? That was my own thought," he agreed. Something in his tone prompted her question.

"Why--isn't it?"

"Joel objects," he said drily.

"He--won't. But why? I don't understand. Why?"

Mark laughed. "He speaks of a matter of duty, not to risk the ship."

"Is there a risk?"

"No." He chuckled maliciously. "As a matter of cold fact, Priss, I'm fearful that Joel is a
bit--timid in such affairs."

She flamed at him: "Afraid?"

He nodded.

"I don't believe it."

His eyes shone. "What a loyal little bride? But--I taxed him with it. And--that was the word
he used...."

She was so angry that she beat upon Mark's great breast with her tiny fists. "It's not true!
It's not true!" she cried. "You know...."

Abruptly, Mark took fire. She was swept in his arms, clipped there, half-lifted from the deck
to meet his lips that dipped to hers. She was like nothing in his grasp; she could not stir....
And from his lips, and circling arms, and great body the hot fire of the man flung through
her.... She fought him.... But even in that terrific moment she knew that Joel had never swept
or whelmed her so....

She twisted her face away.... And thus, from the shadow where they stood, she saw Joel. He
was at the top of the cabin companion, looking toward them, his face illumined by the light
from below. And she watched for an instant, frozen with terror, expecting him to leap toward
them and plunge at Mark and buffet him....

Joel stood for an instant, unstirring. Then he turned, very quietly, and went down stairs again
into the cabin....

She thought, sickly, that he had shirked; he had seen, and held his hand....

What was it Mark had said? Afraid....

Mark had not seen Joel. He kissed her again. Then she twisted away from him, and fled below.

Joel was at his desk. He did not look up at her coming; and she stood for an instant, behind
him, watching his bent head....

