Toney laughed again. "Too much walk, indeed, she walk here most ebery day, wid her little bonnet
in her hand and basket too, wid sometin good for Toney. When sun yonder and de shade cobber
de groun; den she set dare, (pointing to the grass which grew luxuriantly near by) and talk
to de ole man and lissen so still like a bird hiding, when I tell her all bout de ole folks,
dat is buried dare, and how we all comed away from de States when de ole war driv us off, not
General Jackson's war. No, sir, General Washington's war, de ole war of all--and den, young
massa, you ought to see her. She's mity putty den, she is--face red and smove, and she little
tired and she look so like ole missus yonder, when she was a gall, and dem English red coats
comes out from Charleston, to de ole place to see her. Dat's a long time ago, young massa."

"Uncle Toney, how old are you?"

"Moss a hundred, young massa; I don't know zackly--but I great big boy when I comed from de
ole country, tudder side ob de sea--my country, massa. When I comed to Charleston, I was so
high--(holding his hand some four feet from the earth) yet I was big nuff to plow, when ole
massa, de fadder of him burried yonder, bied me and tuck me up to de high hills ob Santee.
Den, sir, my massa who brought me here, was gone to de country whar de white folks first comed
from, England. I neber see him till de ole war, when his fadder been dead two year, den he
comed home one night and all de family but one had gone to de war. He not talk much, but look
mity sorry. My ole missus was a pretty gall, den, live close by us, and it not long afore dey
gets married, and den many ob de nabors come and dey hab long talk. Dey's all comes to de greement
to come away from de country, fraid ob de war, and all de fadders ob all de nabors here take
all der niggers and der stock and go up de country to de riber dat's named de Holsten, and
dare dey built heep flat boats, and in de spring dey starts down de riber. Some ob de boats
hab hogs on 'em, some hosses, some cows, some niggers, some corn and meat, and some de white
families. Dar was boff de grandfadder ob Miss Alice, and her fadder. He was small, not grown,
and old massa, her modder's fadder, was young wid young wife, but dey all made him captain.

"We was long time comin down de riber, and we had to fite de Injuns long time at de place dey
calls Mussel Shoals. Some ob de boats got on de ground, and one on em we had to leave wid de
hogs on it. De bullets come from the Injuns so hot dat we all had to get out into de water
and go to anudder boat and get away from dar. Dem was the wust Injuns I ebber seed. But we
got away and we runned all night. Nex day Miss Alice's fadder was on de top ob de boat ob his
fadder when Injun shoot him in de back from de woods, and he buried wid dat bullet in him up
yonder to de great house. Well, young massa, we comed one day into a big riber, and dar we
stopt one hole week, and de massa and some on de ress on em got out and luck at de country,
but dey not like him and we started agin, and de nex day we gits into di Massasippi, and in
two days more we comed to de place dey called New Madrid, and here stopt agin.

"De land was mity level and rich, and all de men said dey would stop here and live. De people
what lived here was Spanish, and some niggers and Injuns, and dey talked a lingo we didn't
know. Dere was a nigger who could talk American, and he comed one night and tuck ole massa
out and telled him de Spaniards was gwine to rob dem all, and dat dey would kill all on de
white folks, and take all de niggers and stock, and dey was gwine to do it de fus dark night.
Dis larmed us all, and dat night we slipt off, and when mornin comed we was way down de riber
and gwine ahead I tell you. We neber stopt any more till we got to de mouth of Cole's Creek.
Dare de fadder of Miss Alice's fadder stopt, and said he would stay dare. Ole massa seed an
Injun dat tole him ob dis place and dey started true de cane, dey was gone long time, but when
dey comed back, ole massa got us all ready and away we went and neber stopt till we comed to
the mouth of St. Catharine's, right ober dar. Dar we landed and unloaded de boats, and in a
week we was all camped up dar whar de big percan is, and right dar de ole man raise all his
family--and dar he and ole missus died.

"All dis country was full ob deer and Injuns, and dem hills yonder was all covered wid big
canes and de biggest trees you ebber seed. Yonder, all round dat mound we cleaned a field and
planted corn and indigo; and ober yonder was another settlement; and yonder, down de creek
was another; and on de cliffs was another, and den dare comed a heap ob people and stopt at
Natchez and St. Catharine, and all us people a most, young massa, about here is come ob dem;
but dare was trouble moss all de time twixt em.

"Ole massa was made de Governor, by somebody, and dare was another man made a Governor, too,
and he git a company one night and comed down here; but somebody had tole old massa, and dat
day he tell me, and we went down to de riber under de cliff war was some cane and he tole me
he was gwine to stay dar, and I muss bring him sometin to eat ebery day, but I musn't tell
whar he was, not eben to ole missus, for dey would scare her and make her tell on him. Shore
nuff, dat night here dey comed, a many a one on em, and dey went right into de great house
and serched it and ebery whar, but dey was fooled bad, and den dey tuck me and put a rope round
my neck and hung me to de lim of a tree what is dead and gone now, right out dar. But wen I
was moss dead, dey let me down and axed me whar was de Governor. I swared I didn't know, and
dey pulled me up agin; and dis time dey thought dey had killed me, shore nuff. It was a long
time before I comed to, and den I tole um I could show um whar he was, and we started.

"De cane was mity thick, and we went up one hill and down another till we comed to dat big
hill ober de creek dar. De todder side ob it is mity steep, but de cane was all de way down
it. I was a good ways before em and I jumpt down de steepest place and way I went through de
cane down de hill, and de way dey made de bullets whistle was curos. But I got away and went
round and told de ole man all dey had done. When I went back all de black people was gone and
missus said dese men had tuck em off. De nex nite dey cotch me and carried me to whar our black
folks was, and den we all started in a boat down de riber, and when we got to New Orleans we
got on a skiff and run down de riber to a big ship and went out to sea dat night and landed
at Pensacola, and dare dat wicked ole man sold us to de Spanish."

"Uncle Toney, who was that wicked old man?"

"Ah! my young massa, I musn't tell, cause his grandchillen is great folks here now, and Miss
Alice telled me I musn't tell all I knows. Dey aint sponsible, she says, for what dere grandfadder
did. But I tell you he was a mity bad man. Well, I staid at Pensacola two years wid my ole
oman; and we could talk wid de Injuns, and one day two Injuns dat I knowd out here comed to
my cabin, and dey telled me dat ole massa was gone way from here and missus was here by herself
and had nobody to help her. So I makes a bargain wid dese Injuns to come here wid me and my
old woman. One Saturday night we started to go and see some ob our people dat was bout ten
miles from whar we was; but we neber stopped. We tuck to de woods, and we killed a deer wheneber
we was hungry. De Injuns, you know, can always do dat. We was a mity long time comin; but at
last we got here, and den it was moss a year arter dat before ole massa come. Den dar was more
trouble. One day dar comed fifty men and tuck ole massa, and dey tied him and den begin to
rob de house. Dey had all de silver and sich like, when de captain comed in, and he did cuss
mity hard and made em put it every bit down, and march out. Ole missus she thanked him mitily;
but dey carried ole massa off to New Orleans.

"Dar was great trouble wid de nabors. Dey comed and talked bout it; and one day when ole massa
was gone bout a mont, when dey was all dar, who should step into de house but ole massa. He
was fash, I tell you he was, Dar was old Mr. E----, and Mr. O---, and Mr. T----, and a heap
more, and dey all put der heads togeder and talked. One day ole massa come to me and sez he:
'Toney, you mus get on my black hoss and go down to de bluffs. Watch down de riber, and when
you see two big boats comin up--big keel-boats wid plenty ob men on em--way down de riber,
jes come as hard as de hoss can bring you here and let me know it.'

"I knowd dar was trouble comin, young massa; for I seed Miss Alice's papa comin wid plenty
ob de nabors wid him. He was a tall man, and neber talk much. Miss Alice's modder was a young
oman den, and I knowd dey was gwine to be married. When she seed him wid his gun and so many
men she gins to cry. Well, I was gone quick, and moss as soon as I got to de cliff, I see de
boats way down de riber, pulling long by de shore. I made dat hoss do his best home, when I
told old massa: 'Dey's comin, sir!' He sorter grin, and git on his hoss and gallop away down
toward St. Catharine's. He telled me to come on, and I comed. When we got to de mouth ob de
creek dar was fifty men dar, all wid der guns, settin on de ground, and ole massa talkin to
em. Way moss night de boats comed in sight. Den all de men hide in de cane, and massa tell
me: 'Toney, you call em and tell em to come to de shore.' I called em, and dey comed and tied
der boats to de trees, and de captain and some ob de men jumped on de land, and walked out,
and corned close to me.

"De fuss ting dey knowd, bang! bang! bang! go de guns, and de captain fall. De men all run
for de boats, and de men on de boats gin to shoot too. I runs wid all my might, and ole massa
shout to his friends to fire agin, and two men untying de boats fall. Den dey cut de ropes
wid an axe, and shove out de boats into de riber, and pull em away wid de oars too far to hit
em. Ole massa comes out ob de cane and goes to de men what is lying on the ground. Dar was
six on em, and four was dead sure nuff. Two was jus wounded, and one of dese was de captain.
Him de same man what make his men put down de silber and tings dey was takin from ole missus.
Den dey carry all on em to de grate house and bury de dead ones. De captain and de oder wounded
man was tuck into de house, and ole missus she knowd de captain, and she cried mitily bout
his bein shot. Well, he talk plenty bout his wife and modder, and Miss Alice's modder nurse
him; but he died, and his grave's yonder wid ole massa and missus. De oder man he got well
and went away, and berry soon arter dat Miss Alice's fadder and modder got married. Dar come
de judge. He hab seen you, and he ride out ob de road to come see you."

"Toney, I shall come to see you again, and you must tell me more about the family and these
people about here; you must tell me everything."

"You musn't tell anybody I tell you anyting. De judge mity quare man; he don't like for people
to know all I knows."

The judge rode up, and Toney with great respect arose and saluted him. "Ah!" said he, "you
have found this old hermit, have you? Toney is the chronicle of the neighborhood--a record
of its history from the day of its first settlement. I hope he has amused you. He is upwards
of ninety years old, and retains all his faculties in a remarkable degree."

"I have been quite entertained with his history of the descent of the river with your ancestors.
He seems to remember every incident, and says your father was wounded at the Muscle Shoals
on the Tennessee River."

"He is quite right, sir. It was a perilous trip. My grandfather was a man of wonderful energy
and determination. He pioneered the ancestors of almost every family in this vicinage to this
place. There was a large grant of land from the Spanish Government made here and divided among
his followers, every foot of which is in the possession of their descendants to-day, except
perhaps one thousand acres which were swindled from my family by a most iniquitous decision
of a jury, influenced by an artful old Yankee lawyer. This spot here, sir, was the nucleus
of the first settlement which in a few years spread over the country."

"This county I believe, sir, was once represented in the State of Georgia as the County of
Bourbon, at the time this State with Alabama constituted a part of that State."

"My father was elected to represent the county, but he never took his seat. We continued to
be governed by the laws of Spain which we found in force here until the line between Florida
and the United States was established--indeed until the American Government extended its jurisdiction
in the form of a territorial government over the country. I am riding to my sisters. You will
have fine shooting if you will go through yonder piece of woods. Every tree seems to have a
squirrel upon it. We will meet again at tea. Adieu, till then."

"He been watchin you. Better go, young massa."

"You don't appear, Toney, to like your young master."

"Him not good to Miss Alice. He got plenty sisters; but he only lub two, and dey don't lub
anybody but just him. Him not like his fadder nor ole massa yonder. He bring plenty trouble
to massa and to his modder. No, me don't like him. Miss Alice know him all."

"Well, Toney, no one shall ever know you have told me anything. Some of these days I will come
and see you again. Good by."

"God bress you, young massa! Kill ole nigger some squirrels. Tell Miss Alice dey is for me,
and she will make some on de little ones run down here wid em. Good by, massa."

Slowly the young man wended his way to the mansion; but remembering the negro's request, he
shot several squirrels, and gave them as requested.

"Then you have been to see Uncle Toney. Did he give you any of his stories? Like all old persons,
he loves to talk about his younger days."

"I was quite interested in his narrative of the trip down the river, when your grandparents
and your father emigrated to this part of the country."

"Did he tell you his Indian ghost story?"

"He did not. He was quite communicative; but your brother came and arrested his conversation."
A shade fell upon the features of the beautiful creature as she turned away to send the squirrels
to Toney.

"These are beautiful grounds, Miss Ann."

"Yes, sir; there has been great care bestowed upon them, and they make a fairy-land for my
cousin who in fair weather is almost always found here in these walks and shady retreats afforded
by these old oaks and pecans."

"There is something very beautiful, miss, in the attachment of Miss Alice to Uncle Toney. The
devotion to her on his part almost amounts to adoration."

"My aunt, the mother of Alice, taught her this attachment. There is a little history connected
with it, and indeed, sir, all the family remember his services to our grandfather in a most
perilous moment; but you must ask its narration from the old man. He loves to tell it. My cousin's
memory of her mother is the cherished of her heart. Indeed, sir, that is a strong, deep heart.
You may never know it; but should you, you will remember that I told you there was but one
Alice. In all her feelings she is intense; her love is a flame--her hate a thorn; the fragrance
of the one is an incense--the piercing of the other is deep and agonizing. Shan't we go in,
sir; I see the damp of the dew is on your boot-toe, and you have been ill. The absence of the
sun is the hour for pestilence to ride the breeze in our climate, and you cannot claim to be
fully acclimated."

The autumn progressed, and the rich harvests were being gathered and garnered. This season
is the longest and the loveliest of the year in this beautiful country. During the months of
September, October, and November, there ordinarily falls very little rain, and the temperature
is but slightly different. The evolutions of nature are slow and beneficent, and it seems to
be a period especially disposed so that the husbandman should reap in security the fruits of
the year's labor. The days lag lazily; the atmosphere is serene, and the cerulean, without
a cloud, is deeply blue. The foliage of the forest-trees, so gorgeous and abundant, gradually
loses the intense green of summer, fading and yellowing so slowly as scarcely to be perceptible,
and by such attenuated degrees accustoming the eye to the change, that none of the surprise
or unpleasantness of sudden change is seen or experienced.

The fields grow golden; the redly-tinged leaves of the cotton-plant contrast with the chaste
pure white of the lint in the bursting pods, now so abundantly yielding their wealth; the red
ripe berries all over the woods, and the busy squirrels gathering and hoarding these and the
richer forest-nuts; the cawing of the crows as they forage upon the ungathered corn, feeding
and watching with the consciousness of thieves, and the fat cattle ruminating in the shade,
make up a scene of beauty and loveliness not met with in a less fervid clime. The entranced
rapture which filled my soul when first I looked upon this scene comes over me now with a freshness
that brings back the delights of that day with all its cherished memories, though fifty years
have gone and their sorrows have crushed out all but hope from the heart--and all the pleasures
of the present are these memories kindly clustering about the soul. Perhaps their delights,
and those who shared them, will revive in eternity. Perhaps not; perhaps all alike--the pleasant
and the painful--are to be lost in an eternal, oblivious sleep. It is all speculation; yet
hope and doubt go on to the grave, and thence none return to cheer the one or elucidate the
other. But be it eternal life or eternal death, it is wise; for it is of God.

The autumn grew old and was threatening a frost--the great enemy of fever. The falling leaves
and the fitful gusts of chill wind presaged the coming of winter. The ear caught the ring of
sounds more distant and more distinct now that the languor of summer was gone, and all animal
nature seemed more invigorated and more elastic. Health and her inhabitants were returning
to the city, and the guests of the hospitable planters were thinning from the country. Business
was reviving and commotion was everywhere.

The young stranger was preparing to leave; yet he lingered. Ann had gone; Alice grew more shy
and timid, and his walks and rides were solitary, and but that he loved nature in her autumn
robes would have been dull and uninteresting. The judge was absent at another plantation beyond
the river, and his books and his gun were his only companions. Sometimes he read, sometimes
he rode, and sometimes he walked to visit Toney. It was on one of those peculiarly lonely afternoons
which come in the last days of October when the stillness persuades to rest and meditation
in the woods that, seated on a prostrate tree near the pathway which led down the little creek
to the residence of Uncle Toney, the young guest of the judge was surprised by Alice with a
small negro girl on their way to visit Uncle Toney. Both started; but in a moment were reassured,
and slowly walked to the cabin of the good old negro.

