Amusement: A Force in Christian Training*

                                  By The

                          Rev. Marvin R. Vincent

           Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Troy, N.Y.

                     Wm. H. Young, 8 & 9 First Street

                                Troy, N.Y.

                                   1867

CONTENTS

Preface. Religion And Amusement. The True Nonconformist. The Church And The Young Man. Thoughts
For The Clergy on the Amusement Question.

PREFACE.

These discourses are not presented as a series. With the exception of the last, which was prepared
merely for publication, they were delivered at considerable intervals, and to meet certain
aspects of the subject as they presented themselves. As they all develop substantially the
same principles, they will probably contain some repetitions. The interest awakened by the
publication of the essay before the Albany Convention, and the very general desire expressed
to see the second and third of these discourses in print, have decided the author against remoulding
the whole into one treatise which he at one time contemplated. He therefore sends them forth
in their original shape, with earnest prayer that the great Head of the church may use them,
with all their imperfections, to awaken Christian thought and friendly discussion on a subject
of vital importance to the welfare of our youth.

Marvin R. Vincent.

Troy, Jan. 9th, 1867.

RELIGION AND AMUSEMENT.

    An Essay, Delivered at the International Convention of Young Men’s
                         Christian Associations,

                      Held In Albany, June 1, 1866.

The religious thought of the age must soon face this subject more fairly than it has yet done;
and seek for some more satisfactory adjustment of it. At present its status is very indefinite.
The church is by no means at one concerning it. The pulpit too often evades it. Private Christians
waver between the results of independent thought and of early education, undecided whether
to approve or condemn; while extremists take advantage of this hesitation to lay down the sternest
dogmas, and to thunder denunciations at every head that will not bow to their ipse dixit. The
questions at issue are not to be dismissed with a sneer at fanaticism and over-scrupulousness
on the one hand, and with a protest against unwarrantable liberality on the other. The whole
subject must be reëxamined with reference to fundamental gospel principles by both parties,
in a spirit of Christian moderation, and with the desire of ascertaining not only what is safe,
but what is right.

To prosecute thoroughly such an examination within the limits assigned me, is, of course, impossible.
I can only deal with a few of the great principles underlying the case, and urge their application
to a single practical question which has arisen in the experience of our own, and it may be,
of other Christian associations.

The idea of development, which is perhaps the fundamental one of Christianity, has been to
a very great extent swallowed up in the idea of safety. It is not an uncommon error to regard
Christianity almost exclusively in a defensive aspect; the Christian merely as a safe man,
protected by Divine safe-guards from temptation, rescued by Divine mercy from the terrors of
death and judgment. Correspondingly with this mistake, the tendency has grown to strengthen
the defenses of character, rather than to foster its growth. To keep it from temptation, rather
than to teach it to overcome temptation. To teach it its danger from the world, rather than
its duty to the world. Consequently we have heard more about keeping unspotted from the world,
than of going into all the world, and preaching the gospel to every creature. More about coming
out and being separate, than of knowing the truth which shall make free. More of separating
wheat from tares, than of leavening lumps.

The false instinct of self-preservation, which sent the Romanist into cloisters and convents,
and tore him from the sweet sanctities of domestic life, has perpetuated itself more than some
of us think in Protestant thought and church legislation. And in nothing has this tendency
revealed itself more distinctly than in the matter of amusements. For amusement, having the
effect to make men feel kindly toward the world, and, more readily than duty, falling in with
human inclination, has been regarded as unsafe, and therefore as a thing to be kept at arm’s
length by the church, and admitted to her folds only under the strictest surveillance, and
in gyves and handcuffs.

The developments of this spirit are so familiar that I need not stop to enumerate them. The
important thing now is to discover the right stand-point for discussion. And here let me say
what, until recently, I had supposed there was no need of saying: that amusement is a necessity
of man’s nature as truly as food, or drink, or sleep. Physiology, common sense, experience,
philosophy, are all at one on this point. Man needs something besides change of employment.
He needs something pursued with a view solely to enjoyment. Those who deny this are ignorant
of the simplest fundamental laws of mind and matter. Men who assert publicly that they need
no amusements, and “want to die in the harness,” will have the opportunity of dying in the
harness some years earlier than would be demanded in the ordinary course of nature. It was,
in short, a strain, but upon the anchor.

No revenge has acquired of more magnitude since Carlyle, and so many
of us who follow him as admirers of Knox, have not adopted the modern
trick of speech of calling he a Prophet to his time.

This must be assumed in all discussions of the subject; and it being a religious, no less than
a physical truth, it throws into new prominence the question, how, as Christians, we are to
discharge this duty without being led away by the temptation which adjoins it so closely.

Let it be borne in mind that we are not now dealing with individual cases of conscience, but
with general laws. While then there is obviously a distinction between amusements—while it
is granted that some develop greater capabilities of abuse than others, the attempt to adjust
this question on the basis of discriminating between amusements must result in failure. It
always has, and it always will. This basis is secure only in a question between an innocent
amusement, and one involving a palpable violation of the law of God. The advocate of any particular
amusement is, on this ground, shut up to the necessity of proving that what he approves and
practices is absolutely pure, and incapable of perversion. The moment it is admitted that it
can, by any possibility, be turned to base uses, the lists are thrown open to all corners,
and the utterly insoluble question arises, just what degree of capacity for perversion entitles
an amusement to approval or rejection? Insoluble, I say, because, not to speak of any other
difficulty, one is obliged to confront the fact that no one amusement presents a similar temptation
to abuse to all alike. That in which the slightest indulgence might tend to lead one man to
ruinous excess, excites no interest in another. It might possibly be dangerous for one man
to play at backgammon, while to another it would prove no amusement, but only a tedious method
of killing time. On this ground, in short, it is utterly impossible to adjust this matter satisfactorily
or consistently. The only consistent or safe rule in this view of the case, is rigorously to
exclude all, because all are partakers of the universal taint of sin.

    “The trail of the serpent is over them all.”

