BIRD STORIES
        FROM BURROUGHS

     SKETCHES OF BIRD LIFE
    TAKEN FROM THE WORKS OF

        JOHN BURROUGHS

      WITH ILLUSTRATIONS
   BY LOUIS AGASSIZ FUERTES

           [Device]

   BOSTON  NEW YORK  CHICAGO
   HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
 The Riverside Press Cambridge

COPYRIGHT, 1871, 1875, 1876, 1877, 1879, 1881, 1886, 1894, 1899, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1907,
1908, 1909, BY JOHN BURROUGHS

COPYRIGHT, 1911, BY HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

    Hyphenation has been standardised. Minor typographical errors have
    been corrected without note.

PUBLISHERS' NOTE

John Burroughs's first book, "Wake-Robin," contained a chapter entitled "The Invitation." It
was an invitation to the study of birds. He has reiterated it, implicitly if not explicitly,
in most of the books he has published since then, and many of his readers have joyfully accepted
it. Indeed, such an invitation from Mr. Burroughs is the best possible introduction to the
birds of our Northeastern States, and it is likewise an introduction to some very good reading.
To convey this invitation to a wider circle of young readers the most interesting bird stories
in Mr. Burroughs's books have been gathered into a single volume. A chapter is given to each
species of bird, and the chapters are arranged in a sort of chronological order, according
to the time of the bird's arrival in the spring, the nesting time, or the season when for some
other reason the species is particularly conspicuous. In taking the stories out of their original
setting a few slight verbal alterations have been necessary here and there, but these have
been made either by Mr. Burroughs himself or with his approval.

CONTENTS

 THE BLUEBIRD                                            1

   THE BLUEBIRD (poem)                                13

 THE ROBIN                                              15

 THE FLICKER                                            21

 THE PHŒBE                                              28

   THE COMING OF PHŒBE (poem)                         31

 THE COWBIRD                                            33

 THE CHIPPING SPARROW                                   36

 THE CHEWINK                                            39

 THE BROWN THRASHER                                     42

 THE HOUSE WREN                                         47

 THE SONG SPARROW                                       53

 THE CHIMNEY SWIFT                                      61

 THE OVEN-BIRD                                          69

 THE CATBIRD                                            72

 THE BOBOLINK                                           77

   THE BOBOLINK (poem)                                82

 THE WOOD THRUSH                                        83

 THE BALTIMORE ORIOLE                                   91

 THE WHIP-POOR-WILL                                     95

 THE BLACK-THROATED BLUE WARBLER: A SEARCH FOR
   A RARE NEST                                         100

 THE MARSH HAWK: A MARSH HAWK'S NEST, A YOUNG
   HAWK, AND A VISIT TO A QUAIL ON HER NEST            106

 THE WINTER WREN                                       119

 THE CEDAR-BIRD                                        122

 THE GOLDFINCH                                         125

 THE HEN-HAWK                                          130

 THE RUFFED GROUSE, OR PARTRIDGE                       133

   THE PARTRIDGE (poem)                              137

 THE CROW                                              138

   THE CROW (poem)                                   144

 THE NORTHERN SHRIKE                                   147

 THE SCREECH OWL                                       151

 THE CHICKADEE                                         157

 THE DOWNY WOODPECKER                                  161

   THE DOWNY WOODPECKER (poem)                       169

 INDEX                                                 173

ILLUSTRATIONS

 GOLDFINCH (in color).

There never was a happier or more devoted husband than the male bluebird.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day in early May, Ted and I made an expedition to the Shattega, a still, dark, deep stream
that loiters silently through the woods not far from my cabin. As we paddled along, we were
on the alert for any bit of wild life of bird or beast that might turn up.

There were so many abandoned woodpecker chambers in the small dead trees as we went along that
I determined to secure the section of a tree containing a good one to take home and put up
for the bluebirds. "Why don't the bluebirds occupy them here?" inquired Ted. "Oh," I replied,
"bluebirds do not come so far into the woods as this. They prefer nesting-places in the open,
and near human habitations." After carefully scrutinizing several of the trees, we at last
saw one that seemed to fill the bill. It was a small dead tree-trunk seven or eight inches
in diameter, that leaned out over the water, and from which the top had been broken. The hole,
round and firm, was ten or twelve feet above us. After considerable effort I succeeded in breaking
the stub off near the ground, and brought it down into the boat. "Just the thing," I said;
"surely the bluebirds will prefer this to an artificial box." But, lo and behold, it already
had bluebirds in it! We had not heard a sound or seen a feather till the trunk was in our hands,
when, on peering into the cavity, we discovered two young bluebirds about half grown. This
was a predicament indeed!

Well, the only thing we could do was to stand the tree-trunk up again as well as we could,
and as near as we could to where it had stood before. This was no easy thing. But after a time
we had it fairly well replaced, one end standing in the mud of the shallow water and the other
resting against a tree. This left the hole to the nest about ten feet below and to one side
of its former position. Just then we heard the voice of one of the parent birds, and we quickly
paddled to the other side of the stream, fifty feet away, to watch her proceedings, saying
to each other, "Too bad! too bad!" The mother bird had a large beetle in her beak. She alighted
upon a limb a few feet above the former site of her nest, looked down upon us, uttered a note
or two, and then dropped down confidently to the point in the vacant air where the entrance
to her nest had been but a few moments before. Here she hovered on the wing a second or two,
looking for something that was not there, and then returned to the perch she had just left,
apparently not a little disturbed. She hammered the beetle rather excitedly upon the limb a
few times, as if it were in some way at fault, then dropped down to try for her nest again.
Only vacant air there! She hovers and hovers, her blue wings flickering in the checkered light;
surely that precious hole must be there; but no, again she is baffled, and again she returns
to her perch, and mauls the poor beetle till it must be reduced to a pulp. Then she makes a
third attempt, then a fourth, and a fifth, and a sixth, till she becomes very much excited.
"What could have happened? am I dreaming? has that beetle hoodooed me?" she seems to say, and
in her dismay she lets the bug drop, and looks bewilderedly about her. Then she flies away
through the woods, calling. "Going for her mate," I said to Ted. "She is in deep trouble, and
she wants sympathy and help."

In a few minutes we heard her mate answer, and presently the two birds came hurrying to the
spot, both with loaded beaks. They perched upon the familiar limb above the site of the nest,
and the mate seemed to say, "My dear, what has happened to you? I can find that nest." And
he dived down, and brought up in the empty air just as the mother had done. How he winnowed
it with his eager wings! how he seemed to bear on to that blank space! His mate sat regarding
him intently, confident, I think, that he would find the clew. But he did not. Baffled and
excited, he returned to the perch beside her. Then she tried again, then he rushed down once
more, then they both assaulted the place, but it would not give up its secret. They talked,
they encouraged each other, and they kept up the search, now one, now the other, now both together.
Sometimes they dropped down to within a few feet of the entrance to the nest, and we thought
they would surely find it. No, their minds and eyes were intent only upon that square foot
of space where the nest had been. Soon they withdrew to a large limb many feet higher up, and
seemed to say to themselves, "Well, it is not there, but it must be here somewhere; let us
look about." A few minutes elapsed, when we saw the mother bird spring from her perch and go
straight as an arrow to the nest. Her maternal eye had proved the quicker. She had found her
young. Something like reason and common sense had come to her rescue; she had taken time to
look about, and behold! there was that precious doorway. She thrust her head into it, then
sent back a call to her mate, then went farther in, then withdrew. "Yes, it is true, they are
here, they are here!" Then she went in again, gave them the food in her beak, and then gave
place to her mate, who, after similar demonstrations of joy, also gave them his morsel.

Ted and I breathed freer. A burden had been taken from our minds and hearts, and we went cheerfully
on our way. We had learned something, too; we had learned that when in the deep woods you think
of bluebirds, bluebirds may be nearer you than you think.

       *       *       *       *       *

One mid-April morning two pairs of bluebirds were in very active and at times violent courtship
about my grounds. I could not quite understand the meaning of all the fuss and flutter. Both
birds of each pair were very demonstrative, but the female in each case the more so. She followed
the male everywhere, lifting and twinkling her wings, and apparently seeking to win him by
both word and gesture. If she was not telling him by that cheery, animated, confiding, softly
endearing speech of hers, which she poured out incessantly, how much she loved him, what was
she saying? She was constantly filled with a desire to perch upon the precise spot where he
was sitting, and if he had not moved away I think she would have alighted upon his back. Now
and then, when she flitted away from him, he followed her with like gestures and tones and
demonstrations of affection, but never with quite the same ardor. The two pairs kept near each
other, about the house, the bird-boxes, the trees, the posts and vines in the vineyard, filling
the ear with their soft, insistent warbles, and the eye with their twinkling azure wings.

Was it this constant presence of rivals on both sides that so stimulated them and kept them
up to such a pitch of courtship? Finally, after I had watched them over an hour, the birds
began to come into collision. As they met in the vineyard, the two males clinched and fell
to the ground, lying there for a moment with wings sprawled out, like birds brought down by
a gun. Then they separated, and each returned to his mate, warbling and twinkling his wings.
Very soon the females clinched and fell to the ground and fought savagely, rolling over and
over each other, clawing and tweaking and locking beaks and hanging on like bull terriers.
They did this repeatedly; once one of the males dashed in and separated them, by giving one
of the females a sharp tweak and blow. Then the males were at it again, their blue plumage
mixing with the green grass and ruffled by the ruddy soil. What a soft, feathery, ineffectual
battle it seemed in both cases!--no sound, no blood, no flying feathers, just a sudden mixing
up and general disarray of blue wings and tails and ruddy breasts, there on the ground; assault
but no visible wounds; thrust of beak and grip of claw, but no feather loosened and but little
ruffling; long holding of one down by the other, but no cry of pain or fury. It was the kind
of battle that one likes to witness. The birds usually locked beaks, and held their grip half
a minute at a time. One of the females would always alight by the struggling males and lift
her wings and utter her soft notes, but what she said--whether she was encouraging one of the
blue coats or berating the other, or imploring them both to desist, or egging them on--I could
not tell. So far as I could understand her speech, it was the same that she had been uttering
to her mate all the time.

When my bluebirds dashed at each other with beak and claw, their preliminary utterances had
to my ears anything but a hostile sound. Indeed, for the bluebird to make a harsh, discordant
sound seems out of the question. Once, when the two males lay upon the ground with outspread
wings and locked beaks, a robin flew down by them and for a moment gazed intently at the blue
splash upon the grass, and then went his way.

As the birds drifted about the grounds, first the males, then the females rolling on the grass
or in the dust in fierce combat, and between times the members of each pair assuring each other
of undying interest and attachment, I followed them, apparently quite unnoticed by them. Sometimes
they would lie more than a minute upon the ground, each trying to keep his own or to break
the other's hold. They seemed so oblivious of everything about them that I wondered if they
might not at such times fall an easy prey to cats and hawks. Let me put their watchfulness
to the test, I said. So, as the two males clinched again and fell to the ground, I cautiously
approached them, hat in hand. When ten feet away and unregarded, I made a sudden dash and covered
them with my hat. The struggle continued for a few seconds under there, then all was still.
Sudden darkness had fallen upon the field of battle. What did they think had happened? Presently
their heads and wings began to brush the inside of my hat. Then all was still again. Then I
spoke to them, called to them, exulted over them, but they betrayed no excitement or alarm.
Occasionally a head or a body came in gentle contact with the top or the sides of my hat.

But the two females were evidently agitated by the sudden disappearance of their contending
lovers, and began uttering their mournful alarm-note. After a minute or two I lifted one side
of my hat and out darted one of the birds; then I lifted the hat from the other. One of the
females then rushed, apparently with notes of joy and congratulation, to one of the males,
who gave her a spiteful tweak and blow. Then the other came and he served her the same. He
was evidently a little bewildered, and not certain what had happened or who was responsible
for it. Did he think the two females were in some way to blame? But he was soon reconciled
to one of them again, as was the other male with the other, yet the two couples did not separate
till the males had come into collision once more. Presently, however, they drifted apart, and
each pair was soon holding an animated conversation punctuated by those pretty wing gestures,
about the two bird-boxes.

These scenes of love and rivalry had lasted nearly all the forenoon, and matters between the
birds apparently remained as they were before--the members of each pair quite satisfied with
each other. One pair occupied one of the bird-boxes in the vineyard and reared two broods there
during the season, but the other pair drifted away and took up their abode somewhere else.

THE BLUEBIRD

    A wistful note from out the sky,
      "Pure, pure, pure," in plaintive tone,
      As if the wand'rer were alone,
    And hardly knew to sing or cry.

    But now a flash of eager wing,
      Flitting, twinkling by the wall,
      And pleadings sweet and am'rous call,--
    Ah, now I know his heart doth sing!

    O bluebird, welcome back again,
      Thy azure coat and ruddy vest
      Are hues that April loveth best,--
    Warm skies above the furrowed plain.

    The farm boy hears thy tender voice,
      And visions come of crystal days,
      With sugar-camps in maple ways,
    And scenes that make his heart rejoice.

    The lucid smoke drifts on the breeze,
      The steaming pans are mantling white,
      And thy blue wing's a joyous sight,
    Among the brown and leafless trees.

    Now loosened currents glance and run,
      And buckets shine on sturdy boles,
      The forest folk peep from their holes,
    And work is play from sun to sun.

    The downy beats his sounding limb,
      The nuthatch pipes his nasal call,
      And Robin perched on tree-top tall
    Heavenward lifts his evening hymn.

    Now go and bring thy homesick bride,
      Persuade her here is just the place
      To build a home and found a race
    In Downy's cell, my lodge beside.

In the latter half of April, we pass through what I call the "robin racket,"--trains of three
or four birds rushing pell-mell over the lawn and fetching up in a tree or bush, or occasionally
upon the ground, all piping and screaming at the top of their voices, but whether in mirth
or anger it is hard to tell. The nucleus of the train is a female. One cannot see that the
males in pursuit of her are rivals; it seems rather as if they had united to hustle her out
of the place. But somehow the matches are no doubt made and sealed during these mad rushes.
Maybe the female shouts out to her suitors, "Who touches me first wins," and away she scurries
like an arrow. The males shout out, "Agreed!" and away they go in pursuit, each trying to outdo
the other. The game is a brief one. Before one can get the clew to it, the party has dispersed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first year of my cabin life a pair of robins attempted to build a nest upon the round timber
that forms the plate under my porch roof. But it was a poor place to build in. It took nearly
a week's time and caused the birds a great waste of labor to find this out. The coarse material
they brought for the foundation would not bed well upon the rounded surface of the timber,
and every vagrant breeze that came along swept it off. My porch was kept littered with twigs
and weed-stalks for days, till finally the birds abandoned the undertaking. The next season
a wiser or more experienced pair made the attempt again, and succeeded. They placed the nest
against the rafter where it joins the plate; they used mud from the start to level up with
and to hold the first twigs and straws, and had soon completed a firm, shapely structure. When
the young were about ready to fly, it was interesting to note that there was apparently an
older and a younger, as in most families. One bird was more advanced than any of the others.
Had the parent birds intentionally stimulated it with extra quantities of food, so as to be
able to launch their offspring into the world one at a time? At any rate, one of the birds
was ready to leave the nest a day and a half before any of the others. I happened to be looking
at it when the first impulse to get outside the nest seemed to seize it. Its parents were encouraging
it with calls and assurances from some rocks a few yards away. It answered their calls in vigorous,
strident tones. Then it climbed over the edge of the nest upon the plate, took a few steps
forward, then a few more, till it was a yard from the nest and near the end of the timber,
and could look off into free space. Its parents apparently shouted, "Come on!" But its courage
was not quite equal to the leap; it looked around, and, seeing how far it was from home, scampered
back to the nest, and climbed into it like a frightened child. It had made its first journey
into the world, but the home tie had brought it quickly back. A few hours afterward it journeyed
to the end of the plate again, and then turned and rushed back. The third time its heart was
braver, its wings stronger, and, leaping into the air with a shout, it flew easily to some
rocks a dozen or more yards away. Each of the young in succession, at intervals of nearly a
day, left the nest in this manner. There would be the first journey of a few feet along the
plate, the first sudden panic at being so far from home, the rush back, a second and perhaps
a third attempt, and then the irrevocable leap into the air, and a clamorous flight to a near-by
bush or rock. Young birds never go back when they have once taken flight. The first free flap
of the wings severs forever the ties that bind them to home.

       *       *       *       *       *

I recently observed a robin boring for grubs in a country dooryard. It is a common enough sight
to witness one seize an angle-worm and drag it from its burrow in the turf, but I am not sure
that I ever before saw one drill for grubs and bring the big white morsel to the surface. The
robin I am speaking of had a nest of young in a maple near by, and she worked the neighborhood
very industriously for food. She would run along over the short grass after the manner of robins,
stopping every few feet, her form stiff and erect. Now and then she would suddenly bend her
head toward the ground and bring eye or ear for a moment to bear intently upon it. Then she
would spring to boring the turf vigorously with her bill, changing her attitude at each stroke,
alert and watchful, throwing up the grass roots and little jets of soil, stabbing deeper and
deeper, growing every moment more and more excited, till finally a fat grub was seized and
brought forth. Time after time, during several days, I saw her mine for grubs in this way and
drag them forth. How did she know where to drill? The insect was in every case an inch below
the surface. Did she hear it gnawing the roots of the grasses, or did she see a movement in
the turf beneath which the grub was at work? I know not. I only know that she struck her game
unerringly each time. Only twice did I see her make a few thrusts and then desist, as if she
had been for the moment deceived.

The matchmaking of the high-holes, which often comes under my observation, is in marked contrast
to that of the robins and the bluebirds. There does not appear to be any anger or any blows.
The male or two males will alight on a limb in front of the female, and go through with a series
of bowings and scrapings that are truly comical. He spreads his tail, he puffs out his breast,
he throws back his head and then bends his body to the right and to the left, uttering all
the while a curious musical hiccough. The female confronts him unmoved, but whether her attitude
is critical or defensive, I cannot tell. Presently she flies away, followed by her suitor or
suitors, and the little comedy is enacted on another stump or tree. Among all the woodpeckers
the drum plays an important part in the matchmaking. The male takes up his stand on a dry,
resonant limb, or on the ridgeboard of a building, and beats the loudest call he is capable
of. A favorite drum of the high-holes about me is a hollow wooden tube, a section of a pump,
which stands as a bird-box upon my summer-house. It is a good instrument; its tone is sharp
and clear. A high-hole alights upon it, and sends forth a rattle that can be heard a long way
off. Then he lifts up his head and utters that long April call, Wick, wick, wick, wick. Then
he drums again. If the female does not find him, it is not because he does not make noise enough.
But his sounds are all welcome to the ear. They are simple and primitive, and voice well a
certain sentiment of the April days. As I write these lines I hear through the half-open door
his call come up from a distant field. Then I hear the steady hammering of one that has been
for three days trying to penetrate the weather boarding of the big icehouse by the river, and
to reach the sawdust filling for a nesting-place.

THE COMING OF PHŒBE

    When buckets shine 'gainst maple trees
      And drop by drop the sap doth flow,
    When days are warm, but still nights freeze,
      And deep in woods lie drifts of snow,
    When cattle low and fret in stall,
    Then morning brings the phœbe's call,
                                    "Phœbe,
    Phœbe, phœbe," a cheery note,
    While cackling hens make such a rout.

    When snowbanks run, and hills are bare,
      And early bees hum round the hive,
    When woodchucks creep from out their lair
      Right glad to find themselves alive,
    When sheep go nibbling through the fields,
    Then Phœbe oft her name reveals,
                                    "Phœbe,
    Phœbe, phœbe," a plaintive cry,
    While jack-snipes call in morning sky.

    When wild ducks quack in creek and pond
      And bluebirds perch on mullein-stalks,
    When spring has burst her icy bond
      And in brown fields the sleek crow walks,
    When chipmunks court in roadside walls,
    Then Phœbe from the ridgeboard calls,
                                    "Phœbe,
    Phœbe, phœbe," and lifts her cap,
    While smoking Dick doth boil the sap.

THE CHIPPING SPARROW

When the true flycatcher catches a fly, it is quick business. There is no strife, no pursuit,--one
fell swoop, and the matter is ended. Now note that yonder little sparrow is less skilled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Last summer I made this record in my notebook: "A nest of young robins in the maple in front
of the house being fed by a chipping sparrow. The little sparrow is very attentive; seems decidedly
fond of her adopted babies. The old robins resent her services, and hustle her out of the tree
whenever they find her near the nest. (It was this hurried departure of Chippy from the tree
that first attracted my attention.) She watches her chances, and comes with food in their absence.
The young birds are about ready to fly, and when the chippy feeds them her head fairly disappears
in their capacious mouths. She jerks it back as if she were afraid of being swallowed. Then
she lingers near them on the edge of the nest, and seems to admire them. When she sees the
old robin coming, she spreads her wings in an attitude of defense, and then flies away. I wonder
if she has had the experience of rearing a cow-bunting?" (A day later.) "The robins are out
of the nest, and the little sparrow continues to feed them. She approaches them rather timidly
and hesitatingly, as if she feared they might swallow her, then thrusts her titbit quickly
into the distended mouth and jerks back."

Whether the chippy had lost her own brood, whether she was an unmated bird, or whether the
case was simply the overflowing of the maternal instinct, it would be interesting to know.
Why is the thrasher so stealthy? It always seems to be going about on tip-toe.

After a pair of nesting birds have been broken up once or twice during the season, they become
almost desperate, and will make great efforts to outwit their enemies. A pair of brown thrashers
built their nest in a pasture-field under a low, scrubby apple-tree which the cattle had browsed
down till it spread a thick, wide mass of thorny twigs only a few inches above the ground.
Some blackberry briers had also grown there, so that the screen was perfect. My dog first started
the bird, as I was passing near. By stooping low and peering intently, I could make out the
nest and eggs. Two or three times a week, as I passed by, I would pause to see how the nest
was prospering. The mother bird would keep her place, her yellow eyes never blinking. One morning,
as I looked into her tent, I found the nest empty. Some night-prowler, probably a skunk or
a fox, or maybe a black snake or a red squirrel by day, had plundered it. It would seem as
if it was too well screened; it was in such a spot as any depredator would be apt to explore.
"Surely," he would say, "this is a likely place for a nest." The birds then moved over the
hill a hundred rods or more, much nearer the house, and in some rather open bushes tried again.
But again they came to grief. Then, after some delay, the mother bird made a bold stroke. She
seemed to reason with herself thus: "Since I have fared so disastrously in seeking seclusion
for my nest, I will now adopt the opposite tactics, and come out fairly in the open. What hides
me hides my enemies: let us try greater publicity." So she came out and built her nest by a
few small shoots that grew beside the path that divides the two vineyards, and where we passed
to and fro many times daily. I discovered her by chance early in the morning as I proceeded
to my work. She started up at my feet and flitted quickly along above the ploughed ground,
almost as red as the soil. I admired her audacity. Surely no prowler by night or day would
suspect a nest in this open and exposed place. There was no cover by which they could approach,
and no concealment anywhere. The nest was a hasty affair, as if the birds' patience at nest-building
had been about exhausted. Presently an egg appeared, and then the next day another, and on
the fourth day a third. No doubt the bird would have succeeded this time had not man interfered.
In cultivating the vineyards the horse and cultivator had to pass over this very spot. Upon
this the bird had not calculated. I determined to assist her. I called my man, and told him
there was one spot in that vineyard, no bigger than his hand, where the horse's foot must not
be allowed to fall, nor tooth of cultivator to touch. Then I showed him the nest, and charged
him to avoid it. Probably if I had kept the secret to myself, and let the bird run her own
risk, the nest would have escaped. But the result was that the man, in elaborately trying to
avoid the nest, overdid the matter; the horse plunged, and set his foot squarely upon it. Such
a little spot, the chances were few that the horse's foot would fall exactly there; and yet
it did, and the birds' hopes were again dashed. The pair then disappeared from my vicinity,
and I saw them no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chatter of a second brood of nearly fledged wrens is heard now (August 20) in an oriole's
nest suspended from the branch of an apple-tree near where I write. Earlier in the season the
parent birds made long and determined attempts to establish themselves in a cavity that had
been occupied by a pair of bluebirds. The original proprietor of the place was the downy woodpecker.
He had excavated it the autumn before, and had passed the winter there, often to my certain
knowledge lying abed till nine o'clock in the morning. In the spring he went elsewhere, probably
with a female, to begin the season in new quarters. The bluebirds early took possession, and
in June their first brood had flown. The wrens had been hanging around, evidently with an eye
on the place (such little comedies may be witnessed anywhere), and now very naturally thought
it was their turn. A day or two after the young bluebirds had flown, I noticed some fine, dry
grass clinging to the entrance to the cavity; a circumstance which I understood a few moments
later, when the wren rushed by me into the cover of a small Norway spruce, hotly pursued by
the male bluebird. It was a brown streak and a blue streak pretty close together. The wrens
had gone to housecleaning, and the bluebird had returned to find his bed and bedding being
pitched out of doors, and had thereupon given the wrens to understand in the most emphatic
manner that he had no intention of vacating the premises so early in the season. Day after
day, for more than two weeks, the male bluebird had to clear his premises of these intruders.
It occupied much of his time and not a little of mine, as I sat with a book in a summer-house
near by, laughing at his pretty fury and spiteful onset. On two occasions the wren rushed under
the chair in which I sat, and a streak of blue lightning almost flashed in my very face. One
day, just as I had passed the tree in which the cavity was located, I heard the wren scream
desperately; turning, I saw the little vagabond fall into the grass with the wrathful bluebird
fairly upon him; the latter had returned just in time to catch him, and was evidently bent
on punishing him well. But in the squabble in the grass the wren escaped and took refuge in
the friendly evergreen. The bluebird paused for a moment with outstretched wings looking for
the fugitive, then flew away. A score of times during the month of June did I see the wren
taxing every energy to get away from the bluebird. He would dart into the stone wall, under
the floor of the summer-house, into the weeds,--anywhere to hide his diminished head. The bluebird,
with his bright coat, looked like an officer in uniform in pursuit of some wicked, rusty little
street gamin. Generally the favorite house of refuge of the wrens was the little spruce, into
which their pursuer made no attempt to follow them. The female would sit concealed amid the
branches, chattering in a scolding, fretful way, while the male with his eye upon his tormentor
would perch on the topmost shoot and sing. Why he sang at such times, whether in triumph and
derision, or to keep his courage up and reassure his mate, I could not make out. When his song
was suddenly cut short, and I glanced to see him dart down into the spruce, my eye usually
caught a twinkle of blue wings hovering near. The wrens finally gave up the fight, and their
enemies reared their second brood in peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

If one has always built one's nest upon the ground, and if one comes of a race of ground-builders,
it is a risky experiment to build in a tree. The conditions are vastly different. One of my
near neighbors, a little song sparrow, learned this lesson the past season. She grew ambitious;
she departed from the traditions of her race, and placed her nest in a tree. Such a pretty
spot she chose, too,--the pendent cradle formed by the interlaced sprays of two parallel branches
of a Norway spruce. These branches shoot out almost horizontally; indeed, the lower ones become
quite so in spring, and the side shoots with which they are clothed droop down, forming the
slopes of miniature ridges; where the slopes of two branches join, a little valley is formed,
which often looks more stable than it really is. My sparrow selected one of these little valleys
about six feet from the ground, and quite near the walls of the house. "Here," she thought,
"I will build my nest, and pass the heat of June in a miniature Norway. This tree is the fir-clad
mountain, and this little vale on its side I select for my own." She carried up a great quantity
of coarse grass and straws for the foundation, just as she would have done upon the ground.
On the top of this mass there gradually came into shape the delicate structure of her nest,
compacting and refining till its delicate carpet of hairs and threads was reached. So sly as
the little bird was about it, too,--every moment on her guard lest you discover her secret!
Five eggs were laid, and incubation was far advanced, when the storms and winds came. The cradle
indeed did rock. The boughs did not break, but they swayed and separated as you would part
your two interlocked hands. The ground of the little valley fairly gave way, the nest tilted
over till its contents fell into the chasm. It was like an earthquake that destroys a hamlet.

No born tree-builder would have placed its nest in such a situation. Birds that build at the
end of the branch, like the oriole, tie the nest fast; others, like the robin, build against
the main trunk; still others build securely in the fork. The sparrow, in her ignorance, rested
her house upon the spray of two branches, and when the tempest came, the branches parted company
and the nest was engulfed.

A little bob-tailed song sparrow built her nest in a pile of dry brush very near the kitchen
door of a farmhouse on the skirts of the northern Catskills, where I was passing the summer.
It was late in July, and she had doubtless reared one brood in the earlier season. Her toilet
was decidedly the worse for wear. I noted her day after day, very busy about the fence and
quince bushes between the house and milk house, with her beak full of coarse straw and hay.
To a casual observer, she seemed flitting about aimlessly, carrying straws from place to place
just to amuse herself. When I came to watch her closely to learn the place of her nest, she
seemed to suspect my intention, and made many little feints and movements calculated to put
me off my track. But I would not be misled, and presently had her secret. The male did not
assist her at all, but sang much of the time in an apple-tree or upon the fence, on the other
side of the house.

The song sparrow nearly always builds upon the ground, but my little neighbor laid the foundations
of her domicile a foot or more above the soil. And what a mass of straws and twigs she did
collect together! How coarse and careless and aimless at first,--a mere lot of rubbish dropped
upon the tangle of dry limbs; but presently how it began to refine and come into shape in the
centre! till there was the most exquisite hair-lined cup set about by a chaos of coarse straws
and branches. What a process of evolution! The completed nest was foreshadowed by the first
stiff straw; but how far off is yet that dainty casket with its complement of speckled eggs!
The nest was so placed that it had for canopy a large, broad, drooping leaf of yellow dock.
This formed a perfect shield against both sun and rain, while it served to conceal it from
any curious eyes from above,--from the cat, for instance, prowling along the top of the wall.
Before the eggs had hatched, the docken leaf wilted and dried and fell down upon the nest.
But the mother bird managed to insinuate herself beneath it, and went on with her brooding
all the same.

Then I arranged an artificial cover of leaves and branches, which shielded her charge till
they had flown away. A mere trifle was this little bob-tailed bird with her arts and her secrets,
and the male with his song, and yet the pair gave a touch of something to those days and to
that place which I would not willingly have missed.

THE CHIMNEY SWIFT

One day a swarm of honey-bees went into my chimney, and I mounted the stack to see into which
flue they had gone. As I craned my neck above the sooty vent, with the bees humming about my
ears, the first thing my eye rested upon in the black interior was a pair of long white pearls
upon a little shelf of twigs, the nest of the chimney swallow, or swift,--honey, soot, and
birds' eggs closely associated. The bees, though in an unused flue, soon found the gas of anthracite
that hovered about the top of the chimney too much for them, and they left. But the swifts
are not repelled by smoke. They seem to have entirely abandoned their former nesting-places
in hollow trees and stumps, and to frequent only chimneys. A tireless bird, never perching,
all day upon the wing, and probably capable of flying one thousand miles in twenty-four hours,
they do not even stop to gather materials for their nests, but snap off the small dry twigs
from the tree-tops as they fly by. Confine one of these swifts to a room and it does not perch,
but after flying till it becomes bewildered and exhausted, it clings to the side of the wall
till it dies. Once, on returning to my room after several days' absence, I found one in which
life seemed nearly extinct; its feet grasped my finger as I removed it from the wall, but its
eyes closed, and it seemed about on the point of joining its companion, which lay dead upon
the floor. Tossing it into the air, however, seemed to awaken its wonderful powers of flight,
and away it went straight toward the clouds. On the wing the chimney swift looks like an athlete
stripped for the race. There is the least appearance of quill and plumage of any of our birds,
and, with all its speed and marvelous evolutions, the effect of its flight is stiff and wiry.
There appears to be but one joint in the wing, and that next the body. This peculiar inflexible
motion of the wings, as if they were little sickles of sheet iron, seems to be owing to the
length and development of the primary quills and the smallness of the secondary. The wing appears
to hinge only at the wrist. The barn swallow lines its rude masonry with feathers, but the
swift begins life on bare twigs, glued together by a glue of home manufacture as adhesive as
Spaulding's.

The big chimney of my cabin "Slabsides" of course attracted the chimney swifts, and as it was
not used in summer, two pairs built their nests in it, and we had the muffled thunder of their
wings at all hours of the day and night. One night, when one of the broods was nearly fledged,
the nest that held them fell down into the fireplace. Such a din of screeching and chattering
as they instantly set up! Neither my dog nor I could sleep. They yelled in chorus, stopping
at the end of every half-minute as if upon signal. Now they were all screeching at the top
of their voices, then a sudden, dead silence ensued. Then the din began again, to terminate
at the instant as before. If they had been long practicing together, they could not have succeeded
better. I never before heard the cry of birds so accurately timed. After a while I got up and
put them back up the chimney, and stopped up the throat of the flue with newspapers. The next
day one of the parent birds, in bringing food to them, came down the chimney with such force
that it passed through the papers and brought up in the fireplace. On capturing it I saw that
its throat was distended with food as a chipmunk's cheek with corn, or a boy's pocket with
chestnuts. I opened its mandibles, when it ejected a wad of insects as large as a bean. Most
of them were much macerated, but there were two house-flies yet alive and but little the worse
for their close confinement. They stretched themselves and walked about upon my hand, enjoying
a breath of fresh air once more. It was nearly two hours before the swift again ventured into
the chimney with food.

These birds do not perch, nor alight upon buildings or the ground. They are apparently upon
the wing all day. They outride the storms. I have in my mind a cheering picture of three of
them I saw facing a heavy thunder-shower one afternoon. The wind was blowing a gale, the clouds
were rolling in black, portentous billows out of the west, the peals of thunder were shaking
the heavens, and the big drops were just beginning to come down, when, on looking up, I saw
three swifts high in air, working their way slowly, straight into the teeth of the storm. They
were not hurried or disturbed; they held themselves firmly and steadily; indeed, they were
fairly at anchor in the air till the rage of the elements should have subsided. I do not know
that any other of our land birds outride the storms in this way.

In the choice of nesting-material the swift shows no change of habit. She still snips off the
small dry twigs from the tree-tops and glues them together, and to the side of the chimney,
with her own glue. The soot is a new obstacle in her way, that she does not yet seem to have
learned to overcome, as the rains often loosen it and cause her nest to fall to the bottom.
She has a pretty way of trying to frighten you off when your head suddenly darkens the opening
above her. At such times she leaves the nest and clings to the side of the chimney near it.
Then, slowly raising her wings, she suddenly springs out from the wall and back again, making
as loud a drumming with them in the passage as she is capable of. If this does not frighten
you away, she repeats it three or four times. If your face still hovers above her, she remains
quiet and watches you.

What a creature of the air this bird is, never touching the ground, so far as I know, and never
tasting earthly food! The swallow does perch now and then and descend to the ground for nesting-material,
but not so the swift. The twigs for her nest she gathers on the wing, sweeping along like children
on a "merry-go-round" who try to seize a ring, or to do some other feat, as they pass a given
point. If the swift misses the twig, or it fails to yield to her the first time, she tries
again and again, each time making a wider circuit, as if to tame and train her steed a little
and bring him up more squarely to the mark next time.

Though the swift is a stiff flyer and apparently without joints in her wings, yet the air of
frolic and of superabundance of wing-power is more marked with her than with any other of our
birds. Her feeding and twig-gathering seem like asides in a life of endless play. Several times
both in spring and fall I have seen swifts gather in immense numbers toward nightfall, to take
refuge in large unused chimney-stacks. On such occasions they seem to be coming together for
some aerial festival or grand celebration; and, as if bent upon a final effort to work off
a part of their superabundant wing-power before settling down for the night, they circle and
circle high above the chimney-top, a great cloud of them, drifting this way and that, all in
high spirits and chippering as they fly. Their numbers constantly increase as other members
of the clan come dashing in from all points of the compass. Swifts seem to materialize out
of empty air on all sides of the chippering, whirling ring, as an hour or more this assembling
of the clan and this flight festival go on. The birds must gather in from whole counties, or
from half a State. They have been on the wing all day, and yet now they seem as tireless as
the wind, and as if unable to curb their powers.

One fall they gathered in this way and took refuge for the night in a large chimney-stack in
a city near me, and kept this course up for more than a month and a half. Several times I went
to town to witness the spectacle, and a spectacle it was: ten thousand swifts, I should think,
filling the air above a whole square like a whirling swarm of huge black bees, but saluting
the ear with a multitudinous chippering, instead of a humming. People gathered upon the sidewalks
to see them. It was a rare circus performance, free to all. After a great many feints and playful
approaches, the whirling ring of birds would suddenly grow denser above the chimney; then a
stream of them, as if drawn down by some power of suction, would pour into the opening. For
only a few seconds would this downward rush continue; then, as if the spirit of frolic had
again got the upper hand of them, the ring would rise, and the chippering and circling go on.
In a minute or two the same manœuvre would be repeated, the chimney, as it were, taking its
swallows at intervals to prevent choking. It usually took a half-hour or more for the birds
all to disappear down its capacious throat. There was always an air of timidity and irresolution
about their approach to the chimney, just as there always is about their approach to the dead
tree-top from which they procure their twigs for nest-building. Often did I see birds hesitate
above the opening and then pass on, apparently as though they had not struck it at just the
right angle. On one occasion a solitary bird was left flying, and it took three or four trials
either to make up its mind or to catch the trick of the descent. On dark or threatening or
stormy days the birds would begin to assemble by mid-afternoon, and by four or five o'clock
were all in their lodgings.

THE OVEN-BIRD

Every loiterer about the woods knows this pretty, speckled-breasted, olive-backed little bird,
which walks along over the dry leaves a few yards from him, moving its head as it walks, like
a miniature domestic fowl. Most birds are very stiff-necked, like the robin, and as they run
or hop upon the ground, carry the head as if it were riveted to the body. Not so the oven-bird,
or the other birds that walk, as the cow-bunting, or the quail, or the crow. They move the
head forward with the movement of the feet. The sharp, reiterated, almost screeching song of
the oven-bird, as it perches on a limb a few feet from the ground, like the words "preacher,
preacher, preacher," or "teacher, teacher, teacher," uttered louder and louder, and repeated
six or seven times, is also familiar to most ears; but its wild, ringing, rapturous burst of
song in the air high above the tree-tops is not so well known. From a very prosy, tiresome,
unmelodious singer, it is suddenly transformed for a brief moment into a lyric poet of great
power. It is a great surprise. The bird undergoes a complete transformation. Ordinarily it
is a very quiet, demure sort of bird. It walks about over the leaves, moving its head like
a little hen; then perches on a limb a few feet from the ground and sends forth its shrill,
rather prosy, unmusical chant. Surely it is an ordinary, commonplace bird. But wait till the
inspiration of its flight-song is upon it. What a change! Up it goes through the branches of
the trees, leaping from limb to limb, faster and faster, till it shoots from the tree-tops
fifty or more feet into the air above them, and bursts into an ecstasy of song, rapid, ringing,
lyrical; no more like its habitual performance than a match is like a rocket; brief but thrilling;
emphatic but musical. Having reached its climax of flight and song, the bird closes its wings
and drops nearly perpendicularly downward like the skylark. If its song were more prolonged,
it would rival the song of that famous bird. The bird does this many times a day during early
June, but oftenest at twilight.

About the first of June there is a nest in the woods, upon the ground, with four creamy-white
eggs in it, spotted with brown or lilac, chiefly about the larger ends, that always gives the
walker who is so lucky as to find it a thrill of pleasure. It is like a ground sparrow's nest
with a roof or canopy to it. The little brown or olive backed bird starts away from your feet
and runs swiftly and almost silently over the dry leaves, and then turns her speckled breast
to see if you are following. She walks very prettily, by far the prettiest pedestrian in the
woods. But if she thinks you have discovered her secret, she feigns lameness and disability
of both leg and wing, to decoy you into the pursuit of her. This is the oven-bird. The last
nest of this bird I found was while in quest of the pink cypripedium. We suddenly spied a couple
of the flowers a few steps from the path along which we were walking, and had stooped to admire
them, when out sprang the bird from beside them, doubtless thinking she was the subject of
observation instead of the rose-purple flowers that swung but a foot or two above her. But
we never should have seen her had she kept her place. She had found a rent in the matted carpet
of dry leaves and pine needles that covered the ground, and into this had insinuated her nest,
the leaves and needles forming a canopy above it, sloping to the south and west, the source
of the more frequent summer rains.

THE CATBIRD

It requires an effort for me to speak of the singing catbird as he; all the ways and tones
of the bird seem so distinctly feminine. But it is, of course, only the male that sings. At
times I hardly know whether I am more pleased or annoyed with him.

THE BOBOLINK

The bobolink has a secure place in literature, having been laureated by no less a poet than
Bryant, and invested with a lasting human charm in the sunny page of Irving, and is the only
one of our songsters, I believe, that the mockingbird cannot parody or imitate. He affords
the most marked example of exuberant pride, and a glad, rollicking, holiday spirit, that can
be seen among our birds. Every note expresses complacency and glee. He is a beau of the first
pattern, and, unlike any other bird of my acquaintance, pushes his gallantry to the point of
wheeling gayly into the train of every female that comes along, even after the season of courtship
is over and the matches are all settled; and when she leads him on too wild a chase, he turns
lightly about and breaks out with a song that is precisely analogous to a burst of gay and
self-satisfied laughter, as much as to say, "Ha! ha! ha! I must have my fun, Miss Silverthimble,
thimble, thimble, if I break every heart in the meadow, see, see, see!"

At the approach of the breeding-season the bobolink undergoes a complete change; his form changes,
his color changes, his flight changes. From mottled brown or brindle he becomes black and white,
earning, in some localities, the shocking name of "skunk bird"; his small, compact form becomes
broad and conspicuous, and his ordinary flight is laid aside for a mincing, affected gait,
in which he seems to use only the very tips of his wings. It is very noticeable what a contrast
he presents to his mate at this season, not only in color but in manners, she being as shy
and retiring as he is forward and hilarious. Indeed, she seems disagreeably serious and indisposed
to any fun or jollity, scurrying away at his approach, and apparently annoyed at every endearing
word and look. It is surprising that all this parade of plumage and tinkling of cymbals should
be gone through with and persisted in to please a creature so coldly indifferent as she really
seems to be.

I know of no other song-bird that expresses so much self-consciousness and vanity, and comes
so near being an ornithological coxcomb. The redbird, the yellowbird, the indigo-bird, the
oriole, the cardinal grosbeak, and others, all birds of brilliant plumage and musical ability,
seem quite unconscious of self, and neither by tone nor act challenge the admiration of the
beholder.

THE BOBOLINK

    Daisies, clover, buttercup,
      Redtop, trefoil, meadowsweet,
    Ecstatic pinions, soaring up,
      Then gliding down to grassy seat.

    Sunshine, laughter, mad desires,
      May day, June day, lucid skies,
    All reckless moods that love inspires--
      The gladdest bird that sings and flies.

    Meadows, orchards, bending sprays,
      Rushes, lilies, billowy wheat,
    Song and frolic fill his days,
      A feathered rondeau all complete.

    Pink bloom, gold bloom, fleabane white,
      Dewdrop, raindrop, cooling shade,
    Bubbling throat and hovering flight,
      And jocund heart as e'er was made.

It is a curious habit the wood thrush has of starting its nest with a fragment of newspaper
or other paper. Except in remote woods, I think it nearly always puts a piece of paper in the
foundation of its nest. Last spring I chanced to be sitting near a tree in which a wood thrush
had concluded to build. She came with a piece of paper nearly as large as my hand, placed it
upon the branch, stood upon it a moment, and then flew down to the ground. A little puff of
wind caused the paper to leave the branch a moment afterward. The thrush watched it eddy slowly
down to the ground, when she seized it and carried it back. She placed it in position as before,
stood upon it again for a moment, and then flew away. Again the paper left the branch, and
sailed away slowly to the ground. The bird seized it again, jerking it about rather spitefully,
I thought; she turned it round two or three times, then labored back to the branch with it,
upon which she shifted it about as if to hit upon some position in which it would lie more
securely. This time she sat down upon it for a moment, and then went away, doubtless with the
thought in her head that she would bring something to hold it down. The perverse paper followed
her in a few seconds. She seized it again, and hustled it about more than before. As she rose
with it toward the nest, it in some way impeded her flight, and she was compelled to return
to the ground with it. But she kept her temper remarkably well. She turned the paper over and
took it up in her beak several times before she was satisfied with her hold, and then carried
it back to the branch, where, however, it would not stay. I saw her make six trials of it,
when I was called away. I think she finally abandoned the restless fragment, probably a scrap
that held some "breezy" piece of writing, for later in the season I examined the nest and found
no paper in it.

How completely the life of a bird revolves about its nest, its home! In the case of the wood
thrush, its life and joy seem to mount higher and higher as the nest prospers. The male becomes
a fountain of melody; his happiness waxes day by day; he makes little triumphal tours about
the neighborhood, and pours out his pride and gladness in the ears of all. How sweet, how well-bred,
is his demonstration! But let any accident befall that precious nest, and what a sudden silence
falls upon him! Last summer a pair of wood thrushes built their nest within a few rods of my
house, and when the enterprise was fairly launched and the mother bird was sitting upon her
four blue eggs, the male was in the height of his song. How he poured forth his rich melody,
never in the immediate vicinity of the nest, but always within easy hearing distance! Every
morning, as promptly as the morning came, between five and six, he would sing for half an hour
from the top of a locust-tree that shaded my roof. I came to expect him as much as I expected
my breakfast, and I was not disappointed till one morning I seemed to miss something. What
was it? Oh, the thrush had not sung this morning. Something is the matter; and, recollecting
that yesterday I had seen a red squirrel in the trees not far from the nest, I at once inferred
that the nest had been harried. Going to the spot, I found my fears were well grounded; every
egg was gone. The joy of the thrush was laid low. No more songs from the tree-top, and no more
songs from any point, till nearly a week had elapsed, when I heard him again under the hill,
where the pair had started a new nest, cautiously tuning up, and apparently with his recent
bitter experience still weighing upon him.

One evening, while seated upon my porch, I had convincing proof that musical or song contests
do take place among the birds. Two wood thrushes who had nests near by sat on the top of a
dead tree and pitted themselves against each other in song for over half an hour, contending
like champions in a game, and certainly affording the rarest treat in wood-thrush melody I
had ever had. They sang and sang with unwearied spirit and persistence, now and then changing
position or facing in another direction, but keeping within a few feet of each other. The rivalry
became so obvious and was so interesting that I finally made it a point not to take my eyes
from the singers. The twilight deepened till their forms began to grow dim; then one of the
birds could stand the strain no longer, the limit of fair competition had been reached, and
seeming to say, "I will silence you, anyhow," it made a spiteful dive at its rival, and in
hot pursuit the two disappeared in the bushes beneath the tree.

One day in Kentucky I saw an oriole weave into her nest unusual material. As we sat upon the
lawn in front of the cottage, we had noticed the bird just beginning her structure, suspending
it from a long, low branch of the Kentucky coffee-tree that grew but a few feet away. I suggested
to my host that if he would take some brilliant yarn and scatter it about upon the shrubbery,
the fence, and the walks, the bird would probably avail herself of it, and weave a novel nest.
I had heard of its being done, but had never tried it myself. The suggestion was at once acted
upon, and in a few moments a handful of zephyr yarn, crimson, orange, green, yellow, and blue,
was distributed about the grounds. As we sat at dinner a few moments later, I saw the eager
bird flying up toward her nest with one of these brilliant yarns streaming behind her. They
had caught her eye at once, and she fell to work upon them with a will; not a bit daunted by
their brilliant color, she soon had a crimson spot there amid the green leaves. She afforded
us rare amusement all the afternoon and the next morning. How she seemed to congratulate herself
over her rare find! How vigorously she knotted those strings to her branch and gathered the
ends in and sewed them through and through the structure, jerking them spitefully like a housewife
burdened with many cares! How savagely she would fly at her neighbor, an oriole that had a
nest just over the fence a few yards away, when she invaded her territory! The male looked
on approvingly, but did not offer to lend a hand. There is something in the manner of the female
on such occasions, something so decisive and emphatic, that one entirely approves of the course
of the male in not meddling or offering any suggestions. It is the wife's enterprise, and she
evidently knows her own mind so well that the husband keeps aloof, or plays the part of an
approving spectator.

The woolen yarn was ill-suited to the Kentucky climate. This fact the bird seemed to appreciate,
for she used it only in the upper part of her nest, in attaching it to the branch and in binding
and compacting the rim, making the sides and bottom of hemp, leaving it thin and airy, much
more so than are the same nests with us. No other bird would, perhaps, have used such brilliant
material; their instincts of concealment would have revolted, but the oriole aims more to make
its nest inaccessible than to hide it. Its position and depth insure its safety.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the shadows deepen and the stars begin to come out, the whip-poor-will suddenly strikes
up. What a rude intrusion upon the serenity and harmony of the hour! A cry without music, insistent,
reiterated, loud, penetrating, and yet the ear welcomes it; the night and the solitude are
so vast that they can stand it; and when, an hour later, as the night enters into full possession,
the bird comes and serenades me under my window or upon my doorstep, my heart warms toward
it. Its cry is a love-call, and there is something of the ardor and persistence of love in
it, and when the female responds, and comes and hovers near, there is an interchange of subdued,
caressing tones between the two birds that it is a delight to hear. During my first summer
in my cabin one bird used to strike up every night from a high ledge of rocks in front of my
door. At just such a moment in the twilight he would begin, the first to break the stillness.
Then the others would follow, till the solitude was vocal with their calls. They are rarely
heard later than ten o'clock. Then at daybreak they take up the tale again, whipping poor Will
till one pities him. One April morning between three and four o'clock, hearing one strike up
near my window, I began counting its calls. My neighbor had told me he had heard one call over
two hundred times without a break, which seemed to me a big story. But I have a much bigger
one to tell. This bird actually laid upon the back of poor Will one thousand and eighty-eight
blows, with only a barely perceptible pause here and there, as if to catch its breath. Then
it stopped about half a minute and began again, uttering this time three hundred and ninety
calls, when it paused, flew a little farther away, took up the tale once more, and continued
till I fell asleep.

By day the whip-poor-will apparently sits motionless upon the ground. A few times in my walks
through the woods I have started one up from almost under my feet. On such occasions the bird's
movements suggest those of a bat; its wings make no noise, and it wavers about in an uncertain
manner, and quickly drops to the ground again. One June day we flushed an old one with her
two young, but there was no indecision or hesitation in the manner of the mother bird this
time. The young were more than half fledged, and they scampered away a few yards and suddenly
squatted upon the ground, where their assimilative coloring rendered them almost invisible.
Then the anxious parent put forth all her arts to absorb our attention and lure us away from
her offspring. She flitted before us from side to side, with spread wings and tail, now falling
upon the ground, where she would remain a moment as if quite disabled, then perching upon an
old stump or low branch with drooping, quivering wings, and imploring us by every gesture to
take her and spare her young. My companion had his camera with him, but the bird would not
remain long enough in one position for him to get her picture. It is he you see flying low
over the fields, beating about bushes and marshes and dipping over the fences, with his attention
directed to the ground beneath him. He is a cat on wings. He keeps so low that the birds and
mice do not see him till he is fairly upon them. The hen-hawk swoops down upon the meadow-mouse
from his position high in air, or from the top of a dead tree; but the marsh hawk stalks him
and comes suddenly upon him from over the fence, or from behind a low bush or tuft of grass.
He is nearly as large as the hen-hawk, but has a much longer tail. When I was a boy I used
to call him the long-tailed hawk. The male is of a bluish slate-color; the female reddish-brown,
like the hen-hawk, with a white rump.

Unlike the other hawks, they nest on the ground in low, thick marshy places. For several seasons
a pair have nested in a bushy marsh a few miles back of me, near the house of a farmer friend
of mine, who has a keen eye for the wild life about him. Two years ago he found the nest, but
when I got over to see it the next week, it had been robbed, probably by some boys in the neighborhood.
The past season, in April or May, by watching the mother bird, he found the nest again. It
was in a marshy place, several acres in extent, in the bottom of a valley, and thickly grown
with hardback, prickly ash, smilax, and other low thorny bushes. My friend took me to the brink
of a low hill, and pointed out to me in the marsh below us, as nearly as he could, just where
the nest was located. Then we crossed the pasture, entered upon the marsh, and made our way
cautiously toward it. The wild, thorny growths, waist-high, had to be carefully dealt with.
As we neared the spot, I used my eyes the best I could, but I did not see the hawk till she
sprang into the air not ten yards away from us. She went screaming upward, and was soon sailing
in a circle far above us. There, on a coarse matting of twigs and weeds, lay five snow-white
eggs, a little more than half as large as hens' eggs. My companion said the male hawk would
probably soon appear and join the female, but he did not. She kept drifting away to the east,
and was soon gone from our sight.

We presently withdrew and secreted ourselves behind the stone wall, in hopes of seeing the
mother hawk return. She appeared in the distance, but seemed to know she was being watched,
and kept away.

About ten days later we made another visit to the nest. An adventurous young Chicago lady also
wanted to see a hawk's nest, and so accompanied us. This time three of the eggs were hatched,
and as the mother hawk sprang up, either by accident or intentionally she threw two of the
young hawks some feet from the nest. She rose up and screamed angrily. Then, turning toward
us, she came like an arrow straight at the young lady, a bright plume in whose hat probably
drew her fire. The damsel gathered up her skirts about her and beat a hasty retreat. Hawks
were not so pretty as she thought they were. A large hawk launched at one's face from high
in the air is calculated to make one a little nervous. It is such a fearful incline down which
the bird comes, and she is aiming exactly toward your eye. When within about thirty feet of
you, she turns upward with a rushing sound, and, mounting higher, falls toward you again. She
is only firing blank cartridges, as it were; but it usually has the desired effect, and beats
the enemy off.

After we had inspected the young hawks, a neighbor of my friend offered to conduct us to a
quail's nest. Anything in the shape of a nest is always welcome, it is such a mystery, such
a centre of interest and affection, and, if upon the ground, is usually something so dainty
and exquisite amid the natural wreckage and confusion. A ground nest seems so exposed, too,
that it always gives a little thrill of pleasurable surprise to see the group of frail eggs
resting there behind so slight a barrier. I will walk a long distance any day just to see a
song sparrow's nest amid the stubble or under a tuft of grass. It is a jewel in a rosette of
jewels, with a frill of weeds or turf. A quail's nest I had never seen, and to be shown one
within the hunting-ground of this murderous hawk would be a double pleasure. Such a quiet,
secluded, grass-grown highway as we moved along was itself a rare treat. Sequestered was the
word that the little valley suggested, and peace the feeling the road evoked. The farmer, whose
fields lay about us, half grown with weeds and bushes, evidently did not make stir or noise
enough to disturb anything. Beside this rustic highway, bounded by old mossy stone walls, and
within a stone's throw of the farmer's barn, the quail had made her nest. It was just under
the edge of a prostrate thorn-bush.

"The nest is right there," said the farmer, pausing within ten feet of it, and pointing to
the spot with his stick.

In a moment or two we could make out the mottled brown plumage of the sitting bird. Then we
approached her cautiously till we bent above her.

She never moved a feather.

Then I put my cane down in the brush behind her. We wanted to see the eggs, yet did not want
rudely to disturb the sitting hen.

She would not move.

Then I put down my hand within a few inches of her; still she kept her place. Should we have
to lift her off bodily?

Then the young lady put down her hand, probably the prettiest and the whitest hand the quail
had ever seen. At least it started her, and off she sprang, uncovering such a crowded nest
of eggs as I had never before beheld. Twenty-one of them! a ring or disk of white like a china
tea-saucer. You could not help saying, How pretty! How cunning! like baby hens' eggs, as if
the bird were playing at sitting, as children play at housekeeping.

If I had known how crowded her nest was, I should not have dared disturb her, for fear she
would break some of them. But not an egg suffered harm by her sudden flight. And no harm came
to the nest afterward. Every egg hatched, I was told, and the little chicks, hardly bigger
than bumblebees, were led away by the mother into the fields.

In about a week I paid another visit to the hawk's nest. The eggs were all hatched, and the
mother bird was hovering near. I shall never forget the curious expression of those young hawks
sitting there on the ground. The expression was not one of youth, but of extreme age. Such
an ancient, infirm look as they had,--the sharp, dark, and shrunken look about the face and
eyes, and their feeble, tottering motions! They sat upon their elbows and the hind part of
their bodies, and their pale, withered legs and feet extended before them in the most helpless
fashion. Their angular bodies were covered with a pale yellowish down, like that of a chicken;
their heads had a plucked, seedy appearance; and their long, strong, naked wings hung down
by their sides till they touched the ground: power and ferocity in the first rude draught,
shorn of everything but its sinister ugliness. Another curious thing was the gradation of the
young in size; they tapered down regularly from the first to the fifth, as if there had been,
as probably there was, an interval of a day or two between the hatchings.

The two older ones showed some signs of fear on our approach, and one of them threw himself
upon his back, and put up his impotent legs, and glared at us with open beak. The two smaller
ones regarded us not at all. Neither of the parent birds appeared during our stay.

When I visited the nest again, eight or ten days later, the birds were much grown, but of as
marked a difference in size as before, and with the same look of extreme old age,--old age
in men of the aquiline type, nose and chin coming together, and eyes large and sunken. They
now glared upon us with a wild, savage look, and opened their beaks threateningly.

The next week, when my friend visited the nest, the larger of the hawks fought him savagely.
But one of the brood, probably the last to hatch, had made but little growth. It appeared to
be on the point of starvation. The mother hawk (for the male seemed to have disappeared) had
perhaps found her family too large for her, and was deliberately allowing one of the number
to perish; or did the larger and stronger young devour all the food before the weaker member
could obtain any? Probably this was the case.

Arthur brought the feeble nestling away, and the same day my little boy got it and brought
it home, wrapped in a woolen rag. It was clearly a starved bantling. It cried feebly but would
not lift up its head.

We first poured some warm milk down its throat, which soon revived it, so that it would swallow
small bits of flesh. In a day or two we had it eating ravenously, and its growth became noticeable.
Its voice had the sharp whistling character of that of its parents, and was stilled only when
the bird was asleep. We made a pen for it, about a yard square, in one end of the study, covering
the floor with several thicknesses of newspapers; and here, upon a bit of brown woolen blanket
for a nest, the hawk waxed strong day by day. An uglier-looking pet, tested by all the rules
we usually apply to such things, would have been hard to find. There he would sit upon his
elbows, his helpless feet out in front of him, his great featherless wings touching the floor,
and shrilly cry for more food. For a time we gave him water daily from a stylograph-pen filler,
but the water he evidently did not need or relish. Fresh meat, and plenty of it, was his demand.
And we soon discovered that he liked game, such as mice, squirrels, birds, much better than
butcher's meat.

Then began a lively campaign on the part of my little boy against all the vermin and small
game in the neighborhood, to keep the hawk supplied. He trapped and he hunted, he enlisted
his mates in his service, he even robbed the cats to feed the hawk. His usefulness as a boy
of all work was seriously impaired. "Where is J----?" "Gone after a squirrel for his hawk."
And often the day would be half gone before his hunt was successful. The premises were very
soon cleared of mice, and the vicinity of chipmunks and squirrels. Farther and farther he was
compelled to hunt the surrounding farms and woods to keep up with the demands of the hawk.
By the time the hawk was ready to fly, it had consumed twenty-one chipmunks, fourteen red squirrels,
sixteen mice, and twelve English sparrows, besides a great deal of butcher's meat.

His plumage very soon began to show itself, crowding off tufts of the down. The quills on his
great wings sprouted and grew apace. What a ragged, uncanny appearance he presented! but his
look of extreme age gradually became modified. What a lover of the sunlight he was! We would
put him out upon the grass in the full blaze of the morning sun, and he would spread his wings
and bask in it with the most intense enjoyment. In the nest the young must be exposed to the
full power of the midday sun during our first heated terms in June and July, the thermometer
often going up to ninety-three or ninety-five degrees, so that sunshine seemed to be a need
of his nature. He liked the rain equally well, and when put out in a shower would sit down
and take it as if every drop did him good.

His legs developed nearly as slowly as his wings. He could not stand steadily upon them till
about ten days before he was ready to fly. The talons were limp and feeble. When we came with
food, he would hobble along toward us like the worst kind of a cripple, drooping and moving
his wings, and treading upon his legs from the foot back to the elbow, the foot remaining closed
and useless. Like a baby learning to stand, he made many trials before he succeeded. He would
rise up on his trembling legs only to fall back again.

One day, in the summer-house, I saw him for the first time stand for a moment squarely upon
his legs with the feet fully spread beneath them. He looked about him as if the world suddenly
wore a new aspect.

His plumage now grew quite rapidly. One red squirrel a day, chopped fine with an axe, was his
ration. He began to hold his game with his foot while he tore it. The study was full of his
shed down. His dark-brown mottled plumage began to grow beautiful. The wings drooped a little,
but gradually he got control of them, and held them in place.

It was now the 20th of July, and the hawk was about five weeks old. In a day or two he was
walking or jumping about the grounds. He chose a position under the edge of a Norway spruce,
where he would sit for hours dozing, or looking out upon the landscape. When we brought him
game, he would advance to meet us with wings slightly lifted, and uttering a shrill cry. Toss
him a mouse or sparrow, and he would seize it with one foot and hop off to his cover, where
he would bend above it, spread his plumage, look this way and that, uttering all the time the
most exultant and satisfied chuckle.

About this time he began to practice striking with his talons, as an Indian boy might begin
practicing with his bow and arrow. He would strike at a dry leaf in the grass, or at a fallen
apple, or at some imaginary object. He was learning the use of his weapons. His wings also,--he
seemed to feel them sprouting from his shoulders. He would lift them straight up and hold them
expanded, and they would seem to quiver with excitement. Every hour in the day he would do
this. The pressure was beginning to centre there. Then he would strike playfully at a leaf
or a bit of wood, and keep his wings lifted.

The next step was to spring into the air and beat his wings. He seemed now to be thinking entirely
of his wings. They itched to be put to use.

A day or two later he would leap and fly several feet. A pile of brush ten or twelve feet below
the bank was easily reached. Here he would perch in true hawk fashion, to the bewilderment
and scandal of all the robins and catbirds in the vicinity. Here he would dart his eye in all
directions, turning his head over and glancing up into the sky.

He was now a lovely creature, fully fledged, and as tame as a kitten. But he was not a bit
like a kitten in one respect,--he could not bear to have you stroke or even touch his plumage.
He had a horror of your hand, as if it would hopelessly defile him. But he would perch upon
it, and allow you to carry him about. If a dog or cat appeared, he was ready to give battle
instantly. He rushed up to a little dog one day, and struck him with his foot savagely. He
was afraid of strangers, and of any unusual object.

The last week in July he began to fly quite freely, and it was necessary to clip one of his
wings. As the clipping embraced only the ends of his primaries, he soon overcame the difficulty,
and, by carrying his broad, long tail more on that side, flew with considerable ease. He made
longer and longer excursions into the surrounding fields and vineyards, and did not always
return. On such occasions we would go to find him and fetch him back.

Late one rainy afternoon he flew away into the vineyard, and when, an hour later, I went after
him, he could not be found, and we never saw him again. We hoped hunger would soon drive him
back, but we have had no clew to him from that day to this.

THE WINTER WREN

An old hemlock wood at the head waters of the Delaware is a chosen haunt of the winter wren.

The winter wren is so called because he sometimes braves our northern winters, but it is rarely
that one sees him at this season. I think I have seen him only two or three times in winter
in my life. The event of one long walk, recently, in February, was seeing one of these birds.
As I followed a byroad, beside a little creek in the edge of a wood, my eye caught a glimpse
of a small brown bird darting under a stone bridge. I thought to myself no bird but a wren
would take refuge under so small a bridge as that. I stepped down upon it and expected to see
the bird dart out at the upper end. As it did not appear, I scrutinized the bank of the little
run, covered with logs and brush, a few rods farther up.

Presently I saw the wren curtsying and gesticulating beneath an old log. As I approached he
disappeared beneath some loose stones in the bank, then came out again and took another peep
at me, then fidgeted about for a moment and disappeared again, running in and out of the holes
and recesses and beneath the rubbish like a mouse or a chipmunk. The winter wren may always
be known by these squatting, bobbing-out-and-in habits.

As I sought a still closer view of him, he flitted stealthily a few yards up the run and disappeared
beneath a small plank bridge near a house.

I wondered what he could feed upon at such a time. There was a light skim of snow upon the
ground, and the weather was cold. The wren, so far as I know, is entirely an insect-feeder,
and where can he find insects in midwinter in our climate? Probably by searching under bridges,
under brush-heaps, in holes and cavities in banks where the sun falls warm. In such places
he may find dormant spiders and flies and other hibernating insects or their larvæ. We have
a tiny, mosquito-like creature that comes forth in March or in midwinter, as soon as the temperature
is a little above freezing. One may see them performing their fantastic air-dances when the
air is so chilly that one buttons his overcoat about him in his walk. They are darker than
the mosquito,--a sort of dark water-color,--and are very frail to the touch. Maybe the wren
knows the hiding-place of these insects.

THE GOLDFINCH

About the most noticeable bird of August in New York and New England is the yellowbird, or
goldfinch. This is one of the last birds to nest, seldom hatching its eggs till late in July.
It seems as if a particular kind of food were required to rear its brood, which cannot be had
at an earlier date. The seed of the common thistle is apparently its mainstay. There is no
prettier sight at this season than a troop of young goldfinches, led by their parents, going
from thistle to thistle along the roadside and pulling the ripe heads to pieces for the seed.
The plaintive call of the young is one of the characteristic August sounds. Their nests are
frequently destroyed, or the eggs thrown from them, by the terrific July thunder-showers. Last
season a pair had a nest on the slender branch of a maple in front of the door of the house
where I was staying. The eggs were being deposited, and the happy pair had a loving conversation
about them many times each day, when one afternoon a very violent storm arose which made the
branches of the trees stream out like wildly disheveled hair, quite turning over those on the
windward side, and emptying the pretty nest of its eggs. In such cases the birds build anew,--a
delay that may bring the incubation into August.

It is a deep, snug, compact nest, with no loose ends hanging, placed in the fork of a small
limb of an apple-tree, a peach-tree, or an ornamental shade-tree. The eggs are faint bluish-white.

While the female is sitting, the male feeds her regularly. She calls to him on his approach,
or when she hears his voice passing by, in the most affectionate, feminine, childlike tones,
the only case I know where the sitting bird makes any sound while in the act of incubation.
When a rival male invades the tree, or approaches too near, the male whose nest it holds pursues
and reasons or expostulates with him in the same bright, amicable, confiding tones. Indeed,
most birds make use of their sweetest notes in war. The song of love is the song of battle
too. The male yellowbirds flit about from point to point, apparently assuring each other of
the highest sentiments of esteem and consideration, at the same time that one intimates to
the other that he is carrying his joke a little too far. It has the effect of saying with mild
and good-humored surprise, "Why, my dear sir, this is my territory; you surely do not mean
to trespass; permit me to salute you, and to escort you over the line." Yet the intruder does
not always take the hint. Occasionally the couple have a brief sparring-match in the air, and
mount up and up, beak to beak, to a considerable height, but rarely do they actually come to blows.

The yellowbird becomes active and conspicuous after the other birds have nearly all withdrawn
from the stage and become silent, their broods reared and flown. August is his month, his festive
season. It is his turn now. The thistles are ripening their seeds, and his nest is undisturbed
by jay-bird or crow. He is the first bird I hear in the morning, circling and swinging through
the air in that peculiar undulating flight, and calling out on the downward curve of each stroke,
"Here we go, here we go!" Every hour in the day he indulges in his circling, billowy flight.
It is a part of his musical performance. His course at such times is a deeply undulating line,
like the long, gentle roll of the summer sea, the distance from crest to crest or from valley
to valley being probably thirty feet; this distance is made with but one brief beating of the
wings on the downward curve. As he quickly opens them, they give him a strong upward impulse,
and he describes the long arc with them closely folded. Thus, falling and recovering, rising
and sinking like dolphins in the sea, he courses through the summer air. In marked contrast
to this feat is his manner of flying when he indulges in a brief outburst of song on the wing.
Now he flies level, with broad expanded wings nearly as round and as concave as two shells,
which beat the air slowly. The song is the chief matter now, and the wings are used only to
keep him afloat while delivering it. In the other case, the flight is the main concern, and
the voice merely punctuates it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among our familiar birds the matchmaking of none other is quite so pretty as that of the goldfinch.
The goldfinches stay with us in loose flocks and clad in a dull-olive suit throughout the winter.
In May the males begin to put on their bright summer plumage. This is the result of a kind
of superficial moulting. Their feathers are not shed, but their dusky covering or overalls
are cast off. When the process is only partly completed, the bird has a smutty, unpresentable
appearance. But we seldom see them at such times. They seem to retire from society. When the
change is complete, and the males have got their bright uniforms of yellow and black, the courting
begins. All the goldfinches of a neighborhood collect together and hold a sort of musical festival.
To the number of many dozens they may be seen in some large tree, all singing and calling in
the most joyous and vivacious manner. The males sing, and the females chirp and call. Whether
there is actual competition on a trial of musical abilities of the males before the females
or not, I do not know. The best of feeling seems to pervade the company; there is no sign of
quarreling or fighting; "all goes merry as a marriage bell," and the matches seem actually
to be made during these musical picnics. Before May is passed the birds are seen in couples,
and in June housekeeping usually begins. This I call the ideal of love-making among birds,
and is in striking contrast to the squabbles and jealousies of most of our songsters.

I have known the goldfinches to keep up this musical and love-making festival through three
consecutive days of a cold northeast rainstorm. Bedraggled, but ardent and happy, the birds
were not to be dispersed by wind or weather.

The calmness and dignity of this hawk, when attacked by crows or the kingbird, are well worthy
of him.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The red-tailed and red-shouldered hawks are both called hen-hawks.

THE PARTRIDGE

    List the booming from afar,
      Soft as hum of roving bee,
    Vague as when on distant bar
      Fall the cataracts of the sea.

    Yet again, a sound astray,
      Was it the humming of the mill?
    Was it cannon leagues away?
      Or dynamite beyond the hill?

    'T is the grouse with kindled soul,
      Wistful of his mate and nest,
    Sounding forth his vernal roll
      On his love-enkindled breast.

    List his fervid morning drum,
      List his summons soft and deep,
    Calling Spice-bush till she come,
      Waking Bloodroot from her sleep.

    Ah! ruffled drummer, let thy wing
      Beat a march the days will heed,
    Wake and spur the tardy spring,
    Till minstrel voices jocund ring,
      And spring is spring in very deed.

THE CROW

The crow may not have the sweet voice which the fox in his flattery attributed to him, but
he has a good, strong, native speech nevertheless. How much character there is in it! How much
thrift and independence! Of course his plumage is firm, his color decided, his wit quick. He
understands you at once and tells you so; so does the hawk by his scornful, defiant whir-r-r-r-r.
Hardy, happy outlaws, the crows, how I love them! Alert, social, republican, always able to
look out for himself, not afraid of the cold and the snow, fishing when flesh is scarce, and
stealing when other resources fail, the crow is a character I would not willingly miss from
the landscape. I love to see his track in the snow or the mud, and his graceful pedestrianism
about the brown fields.

He is no interloper, but has the air and manner of being thoroughly at home, and in rightful
possession of the land. He is no sentimentalist like some of the plaining, disconsolate song-birds,
but apparently is always in good health and good spirits. No matter who is sick, or dejected,
or unsatisfied, or what the weather is, or what the price of corn, the crow is well and finds
life sweet. He is the dusky embodiment of worldly wisdom and prudence. Then he is one of Nature's
self-appointed constables and greatly magnifies his office. He would fain arrest every hawk
or owl or grimalkin that ventures abroad. I have known a posse of them to beset the fox and
cry "Thief!" till Reynard hid himself for shame. Do I say the fox flattered the crow when he
told him he had a sweet voice? Yet one of the most musical sounds in nature proceeds from the
crow. All the crow tribe, from the blue jay up, are capable of certain low ventriloquial notes
that have peculiar cadence and charm. I often hear the crow indulging in his in winter, and
am reminded of the sound of the dulcimer. The bird stretches up and exerts himself like a cock
in the act of crowing, and gives forth a peculiarly clear, vitreous sound that is sure to arrest
and reward your attention. This is, no doubt, the song the fox begged to be favored with, as
in delivering it the crow must inevitably let drop the piece of meat.

The crow has fine manners. He always has the walk and air of a lord of the soil. One morning
I put out some fresh meat upon the snow near my study window. Presently a crow came and carried
it off, and alighted with it upon the ground in the vineyard. While he was eating it, another
crow came, and, alighting a few yards away, slowly walked up to within a few feet of this fellow
and stopped. I expected to see a struggle over the food, as would have been the case with domestic
fowls or animals. Nothing of the kind. The feeding crow stopped eating, regarded the other
for a moment, made a gesture or two, and flew away. Then the second crow went up to the food,
and proceeded to take his share. Presently the first crow came back, when each seized a portion
of the food and flew away with it. Their mutual respect and good-will seemed perfect. Whether
it really was so in our human sense, or whether it was simply an illustration of the instinct
of mutual support which seems to prevail among gregarious birds, I know not. Birds that are
solitary in their habits, like hawks or woodpeckers, behave quite differently toward each other
in the presence of their food.

The crow will quickly discover anything that looks like a trap or snare set to catch him, but
it takes him a long time to see through the simplest contrivance. As I have above stated, I
sometimes place meat on the snow in front of my study window to attract him. On one occasion,
after a couple of crows had come to expect something there daily, I suspended a piece of meat
by a string from a branch of the tree just over the spot where I usually placed the food. A
crow soon discovered it, and came into the tree to see what it meant. His suspicions were aroused.
There was some design in that suspended meat, evidently. It was a trap to catch him. He surveyed
it from every near branch. He peeked and pried, and was bent on penetrating the mystery. He
flew to the ground, and walked about and surveyed it from all sides. Then he took a long walk
down about the vineyard as if in hope of hitting upon some clew. Then he came to the tree again,
and tried first one eye, then the other, upon it; then to the ground beneath; then he went
away and came back; then his fellow came, and they both squinted and investigated, and then
disappeared. Chickadees and woodpeckers would alight upon the meat and peck it swinging in
the wind, but the crows were fearful. Does this show reflection? Perhaps it does, but I look
upon it rather as that instinct of fear and cunning so characteristic of the crow. Two days
passed thus: every morning the crows came and surveyed the suspended meat from all points in
the tree, and then went away. The third day I placed a large bone on the snow beneath the suspended
morsel. Presently one of the crows appeared in the tree, and bent his eye upon the tempting
bone. "The mystery deepens," he seemed to say to himself. But after half an hour's investigation,
and after approaching several times within a few feet of the food upon the ground, he seemed
to conclude there was no connection between it and the piece hanging by the string. So he finally
walked up to it and fell to pecking it, flickering his wings all the time, as a sign of his
watchfulness. He also turned up his eye, momentarily, to the piece in the air above, as if
it might be some disguised sword of Damocles ready to fall upon him. Soon his mate came and
alighted on a low branch of the tree. The feeding crow regarded him a moment, and then flew
up to his side, as if to give him a turn at the meat. But he refused to run the risk. He evidently
looked upon the whole thing as a delusion and a snare, and presently went away, and his mate
followed him. Then I placed the bone in one of the main forks of the tree, but the crows kept
at a safe distance from it. Then I put it back to the ground, but they grew more and more suspicious;
some evil intent in it all, they thought. Finally a dog carried off the bone, and the crows
ceased to visit the tree.

       *       *       *       *       *

From my boyhood I have seen the yearly meeting of the crows in September or October, on a high
grassy hill or a wooded ridge. Apparently, all the crows from a large area assemble at these
times; you may see them coming, singly or in loose bands, from all directions to the rendezvous,
till there are hundreds of them together. They make black an acre or two of ground. At intervals
they all rise in the air, and wheel about, all cawing at once. Then to the ground again, or
to the tree-tops, as the case may be; then, rising again, they send forth the voice of the
multitude. What does it all mean? I notice that this rally is always preliminary to their going
into winter quarters. It would be interesting to know just the nature of the communication
that takes place between them.

THE CROW

I

    My friend and neighbor through the year,
    Self-appointed overseer

    Of my crops of fruit and grain,
    Of my woods and furrowed plain,

    Claim thy tithings right and left,
    I shall never call it theft.

    Nature wisely made the law,
    And I fail to find a flaw

    In thy title to the earth,
    And all it holds of any worth.

    I like thy self-complacent air,
    I like thy ways so free from care,

    Thy landlord stroll about my fields,
    Quickly noting what each yields;

    Thy courtly mien and bearing bold,
    As if thy claim were bought with gold;

    Thy floating shape against the sky,
    When days are calm and clouds are high;

    Thy thrifty flight ere rise of sun,
    Thy homing clans when day is done.

    Hues protective are not thine,
    So sleek thy coat each quill doth shine.

    Diamond black to end of toe,
    Thy counterpoint the crystal snow.

II

    Never plaintive nor appealing,
    Quite at home when thou art stealing,

    Always groomed to tip of feather,
    Calm and trim in every weather,

    Morn till night my woods policing,
    Every sound thy watch increasing.

    Hawk and owl in tree-top hiding
    Feel the shame of thy deriding.

    Naught escapes thy observation,
    None but dread thy accusation.

III

    Hunters, prowlers, woodland lovers
    Vainly seek the leafy covers.

    Noisy, scheming, and predacious,
    With demeanor almost gracious,

    Dowered with leisure, void of hurry,
    Void of fuss and void of worry,

    Friendly bandit, Robin Hood,
    Judge and jury of the wood,

    Or Captain Kidd of sable quill,
    Hiding treasures in the hill,

    Nature made thee for each season,
    Gave thee wit for ample reason,

    Good crow wit that's always burnished
    Like the coat her care has furnished.

    May thy numbers ne'er diminish!
    I'll befriend thee till life's finish.

    May I never cease to meet thee!
    May I never have to eat thee!

    And mayest thou never have to fare so
    That thou playest the part of scarecrow!

THE CHICKADEE

The chickadees we have always with us. They are like the evergreens among trees and plants.
Winter has no terrors for them. They are properly wood-birds, but the groves and orchards know
them also. Did they come near my cabin for better protection, or did they chance to find a
little cavity in a tree there that suited them? Branch-builders and ground-builders are easily
accommodated, but the chickadee must find a cavity, and a small one at that. The woodpeckers
make a cavity when a suitable trunk or branch is found, but the chickadee, with its small,
sharp beak, rarely does so; it usually smooths and deepens one already formed. This a pair
did a few yards from my cabin. The opening was into the heart of a little sassafras, about
four feet from the ground. Day after day the birds took turns in deepening and enlarging the
cavity: a soft, gentle hammering for a few moments in the heart of the little tree, and then
the appearance of the worker at the opening, with the chips in his, or her, beak. They changed
off every little while, one working while the other gathered food. Absolute equality of the
sexes, both in plumage and in duties, seems to prevail among these birds, as among a few other
species. During the preparations for housekeeping the birds were hourly seen and heard, but
as soon as the first egg was laid, all this was changed. They suddenly became very shy and
quiet. Had it not been for the new egg that was added each day, one would have concluded that
they had abandoned the place. There was a precious secret now that must be well kept. After
incubation began, it was only by watching that I could get a glimpse of one of the birds as
it came quickly to feed or to relieve the other.

One day a lot of Vassar girls came to visit me, and I led them out to the little sassafras
to see the chickadee's nest. The sitting bird kept her place as head after head, with its nodding
plumes and millinery, appeared above the opening to her chamber, and a pair of inquisitive
eyes peered down upon her. But I saw that she was getting ready to play her little trick to
frighten them away. Presently I heard a faint explosion at the bottom of the cavity, when the
peeping girl jerked her head quickly back, with the exclamation, "Why, it spit at me!" The
trick of the bird on such occasions is apparently to draw in its breath till its form perceptibly
swells, and then give forth a quick, explosive sound like an escaping jet of steam. One involuntarily
closes his eyes and jerks back his head. The girls, to their great amusement, provoked the
bird into this pretty outburst of her impatience two or three times. But as the ruse failed
of its effect, the bird did not keep it up, but let the laughing faces gaze till they were
satisfied.

I was much interested in seeing a brood of chickadees, reared on my premises, venture upon
their first flight. Their heads had been seen at the door of their dwelling--a cavity in the
limb of a pear-tree--at intervals for two or three days. Evidently they liked the looks of
the great outside world; and one evening, just before sundown, one of them came forth. His
first flight was of several yards, to a locust, where he alighted upon an inner branch, and
after some chirping and calling proceeded to arrange his plumage and compose himself for the
night. I watched him till it was nearly dark. He did not appear at all afraid there alone in
the tree, but put his head under his wing and settled down for the night as if it were just
what he had always been doing. There was a heavy shower a few hours later, but in the morning
he was there upon his perch in good spirits.

I happened to be passing in the morning when another one came out. He hopped out upon a limb,
shook himself, and chirped and called loudly. After some moments an idea seemed to strike him.
His attitude changed, his form straightened up, and a thrill of excitement seemed to run through
him. I knew what it all meant; something had whispered to the bird, "Fly!" With a spring and
a cry he was in the air, and made good headway to a near hemlock. Others left in a similar
manner during that day and the next, till all were out.

THE DOWNY WOODPECKER

The bird that seems to consider he has the best right to my hospitality is the downy woodpecker,
my favorite neighbor among the winter birds.

       *       *       *       *       *

I watch these woodpeckers daily to see if I can solve the mystery as to how they hop up and
down the trunks and branches without falling away from them when they let go their hold. They
come down a limb or trunk backward by a series of little hops, moving both feet together. If
the limb is at an angle to the tree and they are on the under side of it, they do not fall
away from it to get a new hold an inch or half-inch farther down. They are held to it as steel
to a magnet. Both tail and head are involved in the feat. At the instant of making the hop
the head is thrown in and the tail thrown out, but the exact mechanics of it I cannot penetrate.
Philosophers do not yet know how a backward-falling cat turns in the air, but turn she does.
It may be that the woodpecker never quite relaxes his hold, though to my eye he appears to do so.

THE DOWNY WOODPECKER

    Downy came and dwelt with me,
      Taught me hermit lore;
    Drilled his cell in oaken tree
      Near my cabin door.

    Architect of his own home
      In the forest dim,
    Carving its inverted dome
      In a dozy limb.

    Carved it deep and shaped it true
      With his little bill;
    Took no thought about the view,
      Whether dale or hill.

    Shook the chips upon the ground,
      Careless who might see.
    Hark! his hatchet's muffled sound
      Hewing in the tree.

    Round his door as compass-mark,
      True and smooth his wall;
    Just a shadow on the bark
      Points you to his hall.

    Downy leads a hermit life
      All the winter through;
    Free his days from jar and strife,
      And his cares are few.

    Waking up the frozen woods,
      Shaking down the snows;
    Many trees of many moods
      Echo to his blows.

    When the storms of winter rage,
      Be it night or day,
    Then I know my little page
      Sleeps the time away.

    Downy's stores are in the trees,
      Egg and ant and grub;
    Juicy tidbits, rich as cheese,
      Hid in stump and stub.

    Rat-tat-tat his chisel goes,
      Cutting out his prey;
    Every boring insect knows
      When he comes its way.

    Always rapping at their doors,
      Never welcome he;
    All his kind, they vote, are bores,
      Whom they dread to see.

    Why does Downy live alone
      In his snug retreat?
    Has he found that near the bone
      Is the sweetest meat?

    Birdie craved another fate
      When the spring had come;
    Advertised him for a mate
      On his dry-limb drum.

    Drummed her up and drew her near,
      In the April morn,
    Till she owned him for her dear
      In his state forlorn.

    Now he shirks all family cares,
      This I must confess;
    Quite absorbed in self affairs
      In the season's stress.

    We are neighbors well agreed
      Of a common lot;
    Peace and love our only creed
      In this charmèd spot.

INDEX

 Blackbird, cow. See Cowbird.

 Bluebird, arrival in spring, 1;
   nest-building, 1, 2;
   young and cicada, 2, 3;
   a bewildered pair, 3-7;
   love and rivalry, 7-12;
   war with house wrens, 47-52.

 Bluebird, The, poem, 13.

 Bobolink, courtship, 77, 78;
   concealment of nest, 78-81.

 Bobolink, The, poem, 82.

 Bob-white. See Quail.

 Butcher-bird. See Shrike, northern.

 Catbird, song of, 72, 73;
   and black snake, 73-76;
   a coquette, 83.

 Cedar-bird, nest-building, 122, 123;
   notes of, 124.

 Chewink, markings of, 39;
   Thomas Jefferson writes to Alexander Wilson about, 39-41;
   inhospitality of, 83.

 Chickadee, nesting of, 157-160.

 Chippy. See Sparrow, chipping.

 Coming of Phœbe, The, poem, 31.

 Cowbird, notes of, 33;
   parasitic habits of, 33-35.

 Crow, character of, 138, 139;
   manners of, 139, 140;
   wariness of, 140-142;
   yearly meeting, 142, 143.

 Crow, The, poem, 144.

 Downy Woodpecker, The, poem, 169.

 Flicker, call of, 21;
   courtship, 22, 25, 26;
   not satisfied with being a woodpecker, 22, 23;
   excavating a nest, 23;
   young, 23-25;
   drumming, 26, 27.

 Goldfinch, nesting, 125, 126;
   notes of, 126-128;
   flight of, 127, 128;
   musical festivals, 128, 129.

 Grouse, ruffed, 133-136.

 Hawk, marsh, habits of, 106;
   nest of, 106-108;
   young, 111, 112;
   a pet young one, 112-117.

 Hawk, red-shouldered. See Hen-hawk.

 Hawk, red-tailed. See Hen-hawk.

 Hen-hawk, flight of, 130-132.

 High-hole. See Flicker.

 Jefferson, Thomas, 39, 40.

 Oriole, Baltimore, nests of, 91-94.

 Oven-bird, walk of, 69;
   the two songs of, 69, 70;
   nest of, 70, 71.

 Owl, screech, a brood, 151, 152;
   two owl neighbors, 152-156;
   a captive, 153;
   note of, 154;
   disappearing in his hole, 154-156.

 Partridge, 133-136.

 Partridge, The, poem, 137.

 Phœbe, arrival in spring, 28;
   nests of, 29, 30.

 Phœbe, The Coming of, poem, 31.

 Quail, on nest, 109-111.

 Robin, arrival in spring, 15;
   a graceful warrior, 16;
   the "robin racket," 16, 17;
   nest and young, 18, 19;
   boring for grubs, 19, 20.

 Shrike, northern, 147-150;
   raided by a screech owl, 155.

 Snake, black, and song sparrows, 55, 56;
   and catbirds, 73-76.

 Sparrow, chipping, trying to catch a miller, 36;
   feeding young robins, 37, 38.

 Sparrow, song, unsuccessful nestings, 53, 54;
   and a black snake, 55, 56;
   a risky experiment, 56-58;
   a bob-tailed song sparrow's nest, 58-60.

 Swallow, chimney. See Swift, chimney.

 Swift, chimney, nest of, 61, 62;
   flight of, 61, 62;
   young, 63, 64;
   outriding the storms, 64;
   habits of, 64-66;
   great gatherings and aerial evolutions of, 66-68.

 Thrasher, brown, stealthiness of, 42;
   nests of, 42-46;
   skulking, 83.

 Thrush, wood, grace and elegance of, 83, 84;
   newspaper in nests, 84-86;
   the song and the nests, 86, 87;
   unsuccessful nestings, 87-89;
   song contests, 89, 90.

 Towhee. See Chewink.

 Warbler, black-throated blue, a successful search for the nest
           of, 100-105.

 Whip-poor-will, eggs of, 95;
   assimilative coloration of, 95, 97, 99;
   young, 96;
   gait of, 97;
   song of, 97, 98;
   an old bird with her young, 98, 99.

 Wilson, Alexander, 39-41.

 Woodpecker, downy, a winter neighbor, 161-164;
   drumming, 164-167;
   the mystery of his hopping up and down the trunks and
             branches, 167, 168.

 Woodpecker, The Downy, poem, 169.

 Woodpecker, golden-winged. See Flicker.

 Wren, house, song of, 47;
   war with bluebirds, 47-52.

 Wren, winter, in his summer home, 119, 120;
   in winter, 120, 121.

 Yarup. See Flicker.

 Yellowbird. See Goldfinch.

