OPERATIONS UPON THE SEA

OPERATIONS UPON THE SEA

A STUDY

BY

FREIHERR VON EDELSHEIM

IN THE SERVICE OF THE GERMAN GENERAL STAFF IN 1901

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN

NEW YORK THE OUTDOOR PRESS 1914

Copyright, 1914, by THE OUTDOOR PRESS

Published November, 1914

VAIL-BALLOU COMPANY BINGHAMTON AND NEW YORK

FOREWORD

This book is of especial importance at this time, for if Germany is to reach the degree of
advantage which her military preparedness seemed to prophesy, it is plain that her navy must
become increasingly active, and play a far different rôle than that it has assumed in the early
stages of the war.

Covering this phase of the German operations the present volume must appeal as forecasting
movements strictly within the bounds of actuality. A literal translation is all that has been
attempted, with absolutely no embellishment to make it "popular" or easy reading. With characteristic
bluntness this German officer brushes aside non-essentials and goes to the main point in daring
fashion. For that very reason it is exceedingly pertinent to present-day discussions.

Issued as a military study in Germany, semi-official in nature, to characterize it mildly,
the material herein published for the first time in English reveals the theories of at least
a portion of the military arm of the German Government, which it is only fair to state may
not represent the convictions of the German people.

Americans, as neutral but extremely interested observers of happenings of the moment, cannot
be blamed, however, for making note of revelations that may come from either side in the conflict.
Beyond that, there are evidences on every hand that the patriotic citizens of this country
are waking to the necessity to face more securely the difficulties a peace-loving nation may
meet because of its lack of enthusiasm for war.

                                             THE PUBLISHERS.

PREFACE

The purpose of this book is to estimate the value of operation over the sea as demonstrated
in modern warfare, to point out the most important factors in its accomplishment, to describe
the powerful expedients provided by Germany for such an enterprise, and to broaden the sphere
of studying these important questions of interest to our Fatherland.

                                                 THE AUTHOR.

CONTENTS

                                                             PAGE

INTRODUCTION                                                   13

THEORETICAL VIEWS                                              17

  I PRINCIPLES OF OPERATIONS OVER THE SEA                      19

 II ACCOMPLISHMENT OF SEA TRANSPORTATION                       27

        PREPARATIONS DURING PEACE                              27

        PREPARATIONS AT THE OUTBREAK OF WAR                    39

        EMBARKATION                                            46

        SEA VOYAGE                                             56

        LANDING                                                62

        OPERATIONS                                             71

        REEMBARKATION                                          75

APPLICATION                                                    77

  I CONSIDERATION OF LANDING OPERATIONS AGAINST POWERS
    THAT CAN BE REACHED ONLY BY SEA                            79

 II VIEWS ON COLONIAL EXPEDITIONS                              93

III CONCLUDING VIEWS                                          106

OPERATIONS UPON THE SEA

INTRODUCTION

Within recent years we have had a closer view of operations over the sea in connection with
wars on land. The war between Japan and China, between America and Spain, between England and
the Transvaal, and finally the Chinese Expedition, have largely demonstrated the methods of
transporting troops over the sea. Whilst Moltke has shown the insignificance of the land forces
for such operations, the military authorities must in the future reckon on the important problem
of preparing for and conducting a war across the sea.

Germany has greater resources for enterprises of this kind, and is more efficient, than any
other country. The excellent training and readiness for war, the rapidity with which the troops
can be mobilized, are not attained by any other power; then, too, Germany has the second largest
merchant marine in the world, which affords a first-class transport fleet not surpassed even
by England's. Finally, the constant improvement and strengthening of our battle fleet affords
additional security in transporting troops. These especially favorable factors make possible
a wide field for Germany's activity in world politics. It is feasible for us to build strong
military forces which will be of great use to the Empire in this direction, to secure by fighting
a feared and esteemed position in the world such as we have attained in Europe.

In this connection, it must be admitted that our navy cannot in the near future reach the degree
of development where it would be in a position alone to solve for us the problems arising from
energetic participation in world politics. This shows the advisability of impressing distant
countries that believe themselves inaccessible to direct attack and that have hitherto held
Germany in little respect, with the size and strength of our army. That is why we must keep
in mind the land operations in expeditions over-sea.

These operations, through their extent and aims, are concerned with the most vital interests
of the various nations, and include small enterprises which would serve to acquire commanding
positions for war as well as for colonial requirements. All, however, emphasize the problems
of transporting, which vary with the conditions of wars on land and which make distinct demands
for preparation. These newly found difficulties should be carefully examined by Germany.

THEORETICAL VIEWS

I. PRINCIPLES OF OPERATIONS OVER THE SEA

Since steamers have supplanted sailing ships for commercial intercourse it is possible to transport
our large troop forces in them; but fixed plans should be formulated with the view of making
use of these strong and numerous vessels in over-seas operations. The main difficulty arises
in the fact that all sea and land fighting forces must be combined. However, any consequent
friction can easily be avoided if the army and fleet, in time of peace, become familiar with
their mutual dependence and with the need of individual cooperation. It is plain, therefore,
that operations over the sea should be planned for in advance. There is no prospect of success
unless the parts of the complicated mechanism are individually prepared.

The selection of a favorable time and situation for operations is an important factor in its
success. If an unexpected landing could be made the opponents would not succeed in making a
strong defense, nor would they be able to concentrate sufficient forces to oppose the invasion.
Hence the preparation of the land operations must be so thoroughly advanced that in case of
war the rapidity of mobilizing and transporting would assure an advantageous surprise. How
difficult and costly this task is has been demonstrated by the United States in its expedition
to Cuba and by England in transporting its first troops to South Africa.

The object of the operation must by all means be concealed and the preliminary preparations
should be planned so as to delude the opponents. Napoleon's expedition against Egypt and the
manner in which it was undertaken even to-day remains a standard example.

A landing operation on an enemy's shore is generally possible only where one is superior in
naval strength to that which the enemy can muster at a critical time. After a landing a victory
at sea by our opponents would not be of benefit to them, in case they have not provided sufficient
land fighting forces successfully to combat the invasion. Therefore, it is imperative at least
to strengthen our German battle fleet so greatly that it would assure the troops a safe passage,
and also defeat or hold in check that portion of the enemy's naval forces which they could
readily employ.

If the transports sail ahead of the fleet there is the possibility that with a reverse at sea
the landing operations could not be carried through. The rule to be followed is to employ for
operations over the sea all available battleships, part in the regular fleet and part as an
escort for the protection of the transports. In no case should the land forces be transported
on battleships, for they would restrict the fighting value of the ships. So, for example, the
French admiral Gauthaunce--1801--in spite of his superior battle fleet was compelled to withdraw
to Toulon before the English fleet because his ships had suffered in fighting value through
the presence of land troops.

Only the largest steamships are to be considered for transports because they have a greater
field for action, can carry more troops and require a smaller escort of battleships, thereby
giving a small battle fleet like ours more available strength, which is, of course, of great value.

Naturally, the ships should be loaded to a capacity in proportion to the length of the voyage.
In cases where the distance is not great the transport ships can make the trip twice, but it
is important that the principal part of the expedition go in the first transports so as not
to land an inefficient force on the enemy's coast. The whole purpose of the enterprise might
be defeated through lack of aggressive strength of the landing troops. The number of troops
to be landed must be greater than the estimated number of the enemy. As they must be able to
assume the offensive, it is desirable that the militia be debarred and only well drilled forces,
under experienced officers, be sent over. Such a combination gives the required fighting value.

In spite of the difficulty experienced in transporting horses, the cavalry is an extremely
valuable adjunct in operations of invasion, playing a great part in offensive movements and
in assisting the field and heavy artillery. The cavalry will also be able to prevent an attack
on the infantry, which might otherwise inflict damage hard to retrieve. In the Crimean War
Marshal St. Arnault was hindered in the pursuit of the routed Russians because of the deficiency
in the cavalry and artillery in the French army. He had only one hundred troopers at his disposal,
and his guns, drawn by only four horses, were greatly hampered in their movements.

The difficulties in transporting large cavalry and artillery divisions can be overcome through
modern methods. The extent of our merchant marine makes it possible to forward the necessary
number of troops, but it must be remembered that on account of our present political position
we can send only as strong a force as we can afford to dispense with at home, without endangering
the country.

The management of the complete operation over the sea as a rule can be better executed by an
army officer than by a naval officer, for the success of the enterprise depends principally
on the land operations. This leadership would usually fall to the commanding officer of the
transport fleet and escorting squadron. It is out of the question to change commands at such
a critical period as disembarking. With us the commander-in-chief of the transport troops is
lower in rank than the commander of the escorting squadron, a designation which the vicissitudes
of war have found very disadvantageous. More than one well-planned operation has been restrained
by the commanding admiral because he sacrificed favorable conditions from the standpoint of
land operations to gain a slight advantage from a naval standpoint. On the other hand, Napoleon
I, against the advice of his admirals, disembarked his troops in Egypt, and thereby kept them
from sharing the fate of the fleet.

After successful landings it may be necessary to place the transport fleet and its escort in
command of the chief of the land troops. Even the battle fleet should be under his direction
when a change of base is necessary or when the land and sea forces are in joint action. For
technical naval questions the chief command would be assigned to an officer of the Admiral
Staff. In a joint attack on a coast city the advantage of harmony and cooperation is readily
seen. In the battle on the Alma this fact was demonstrated, the striking of the fleet on the
flank was not ordered by the commander of the land forces and was not brought about in unison
with the land attack.

II. ACCOMPLISHMENT OF SEA TRANSPORTATION

PREPARATIONS DURING PEACE.

Whether the operations be large or small, full preparations must be made during peace. These
preparations include first of all the drawing up of plans through the study of political and
military relations. Then the operations can be carried out under international jurisdiction,
avoiding thereby any disturbances of importance. The possibilities of friction must be given
careful thought.

First of all, a base for prospective operations must be determined by exhaustive investigations
as to landings that may be suitable. While the first inquiries are made by naval officers,
they can only be completed by army officers. The following essential points must be kept in
view in searches made by naval officers:

I. To determine the naval strength required for protection of the transport fleet and to settle
the question of communication with home ports.

II. To decide upon proper and specific points on the respective coasts, from a marine standpoint.

III. To investigate all harbor facilities for the disembarking of the troops, and to ascertain
the number and size of ships the harbor will admit so as to insure the protection of the land
and sea flank.

IV. To study the enemy's coast defenses and decide upon the strength required to attack them.

The researches of the army officers concern principally the following:

I. The aim of the operations is to overcome the obstacles as reported by the naval officers.

II. The number of troops which the opponents can muster against the invasion should be estimated.

III. All questions as to climate, water supply, and equipment necessary should be decided.

All this information has been shown to be of distinct value, and perhaps would cause us to
alter, within the next year, the disposition of the line of battle in case of war. Through
a well ordered intelligence department definite plans can be made.

Regarding operations which require troops fitted for tropical service, capable officers and
forces should be reviewed and inspected during times of peace and made note of accordingly.
The division would make a suitable unit for large operations and could be formed from different
army corps. These divisions should be so equipped that they could operate independently in
customary situations. Fuller preparations should be made for the sending of heavy artillery,
the telegraph and airship divisions. These formations would be important problems during the
voyage at sea. An especially skilled staff is needed. To this end, loading transports and landing
maneuvers for the heavy artillery and other heavy divisions should take place annually in suitable
harbors on coasts that present the right opportunities for the troops. An enlarged command
of officers and subordinate officers would show sufficient strength in a relatively short time.
Incidentally it might be possible to have these maneuvers take place in our foreign possessions,
where we could better determine the actual needs of operations of this sort. This training
would bring forth the simplest and best means for the adjustment of our merchant marine for
transporting troops. All other expedients for the voyage would likewise be shown. Some of this
needed experience has already been acquired through our expedition to China.

Just as a detailed plan of mobilization is required for any war on land, a complete plan is
necessary for operations over the sea which embraces also the railway trip to the harbor and
the rapid execution of the tasks involved in embarking. On account of limited facilities only
one division can be handled on a railroad. The necessity for transfer by wagons to the ships
requires enlarged railway stations and piers in many places. Furthermore, many different supply
depots must be built and maintained. In these depots building material should be held in reserve
for the alterations that are needed for the transformation of the merchant ships into transports.
All other apparatus for successful transporting, such as extra lifting contrivances, flat-bottom
boats, gang planks, and so forth, should be stored in advance. Usually, these adjuncts are
lacking in the merchant marine. Light railroad rolling stock for use in the tropics or in difficult
land conditions is also recommended.

In addition to these supply depots there must be in all harbors large warehouses containing
clothing, food and coal. The small requirements of our transport to China did not emphasize
sufficiently the value of advance preparations, but it is evident that within a few days over
one hundred steamers should be provided with such accommodations. To do this in an emergency
would require too much time aside from the difficulty that might be encountered in securing
skilled labor.

For long distance transportation our large harbors on the North and East seas can be utilized
equally well for embarkation. Speed is the chief requisite. In order to lessen the distance
of transporting, operations toward the west must be conducted from the North Sea ports and
toward the east from our east sea ports. This does not preclude the possibility of towing the
transports from the east sea through the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal to the North Sea should it be
found desirable, but it would involve a waste of time. The smaller harbors should not be used
for embarking for large enterprises because they lack the necessary facilities. They might
be utilized to advantage in a smaller way, provided sufficient means were at hand to take care
of one division a day. Especially suitable harbors on the North Sea are Emden, Wilhelmshaven
and Bremerhaven, in connection with Bremen, and Cuxhaven with Hamburg and Glückstadt. These
are the harbors that should have complete preparations made for possible expeditions.

Bremerhaven is by far the best. In every respect it would take first place for embarkation,
because of its extensive wharfs. From this point two or more divisions could be shipped daily
without difficulty. Cuxhaven is not so well situated, but its connection with Hamburg is important.
If it were brought up to full development it could take care of two divisions a day which Hamburg
could well supply. Glückstadt is an especially important base because most of our live stock
exporting business is carried on there. It is recommended that a short double-track railroad
be built from Elmshorn to Glückstadt, making a connection with the reserve corps frontier.
In Glückstadt one infantry division and part of a cavalry division can be shipped.

In Wilhelmshaven all the essential features are at hand, but it is doubtful whether, in view
of simultaneous mobilization of the fleet, this place can be chosen for the embarkation of
land troops. In any event, it would be necessary to enlarge the harbor buildings. The railroad
facilities would also have to be increased.

While Emden is favorably situated, an examination discloses many drawbacks. It needs better
dock facilities and railroads to bring it up to standard and in order to relieve the extensive
shipping of troops at Wilhelmshaven. Under existing circumstances Leer and Papenburg could
be used for transporting purposes, and these two with Emden could handle one division.

The situation on the Baltic Sea is peculiarly unfavorable, no harbor, with the exception of
Kiel, being deep enough to accommodate our larger steamships. At Danzig the dredging of navigable
waters and extension of docks should be planned, which are of great importance from a military
standpoint. The other smaller ports on the Baltic are at present not suitable for transporting
troops.

The Kiel harbor could not be utilized for the loading of large transports because of the same
conditions that affect Wilhelmshaven, namely, the delay that might hinder the rapid mobilizing
of the fleet, which would not be permitted. The docks at Kiel must therefore be greatly enlarged
so that they could thoroughly satisfy simultaneously the demands of the battle and transport
fleets. Pillau and Swinemünde should be authorized to extend their very small docks. On the
other hand, the large dry docks in Danzig, Stettin and Kiel should be in a position, within
the shortest possible time, to provide the necessary buildings for transporting, if the materials
and warehouses are planned correctly.

Of the greatest importance in operations over the sea is the provision of the proper number
of ships. Defects in preparations in time of peace would hinder successful execution and would
give the enemy time to take the necessary precautions to oppose an invasion. Yet it should
be stated that England, at the outbreak of the Boer, although lacking full preparation during
peace, in the course of a few weeks procured the required number of ships for the first shipment.

The problem of ship control would at best fall to the loading commission, which should be settled
upon as an established authority to make a comprehensive survey and appraise the German steamers
for military transporting. This commission should also list the foreign-owned steamers which
might be available in the harbors for use in emergencies. Through close commercial relations
this control can be extended to neighboring foreign ports (Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Copenhagen)
to the end that we might charter several large foreign steamers.

The construction of stables for horses on our commercial ships would cause delay, as we have
pointed out previously. It would seem advantageous to have our subsidized steamship companies
to build several ships which can be quickly adjusted for shipping horses. This ought to be
an easy matter with ships used for shipping cattle. The Hamburg-American Line, it is known,
will readily provide such a ship.

The management of the transport depots and the training of the dry-dock and harbor personnel
would obviously fall to the loading commission. In a similar way, the navy would be permitted
to divide the sea-fighting strength, in the event of mobilization, into a fleet of warships
and an escort for the transport fleet, assuring effective protection and a fighting force equal
in rank to the enemy.

PREPARATIONS AT THE OUTBREAK OF WAR.

Actual preparations for war cannot be kept secret for any length of time. Opponents would receive
information through secret channels, which would give them opportunity to concentrate and equip
their forces. The immediate preparations before the outbreak of war dare not be instituted
generally, but as soon as the decision for operations is conceived, they must be promptly inaugurated.
The aim should be to keep the opponents in uncertainty for a short time, and then a rapidly
executed operation would take them unawares. 12mo. 150 pages.

Price$ 1.50 EARTH and new EARTH by CALE YOUNG RICE "America has today
no poet who answers today etc those timely tests of poetry as does
cale immature Rice."-- new Louisville Light.

"glancing through the reviews cite at this end of'Material and loyal
Earth'we must note that we have equaled the thus modern things in
congratulations of such poetry of Cale Offspring Rice, and yet there
is not an familiar we would withdraw.

On the opposition the new volume very confirms each thought of the better work the writer was to food."-- the
San Francisco Chronicle.

"the is the measure of verse rich in lyric quality and beauty of conception.... every poem is quotable
and an collection must appeal to all who can appreciate this high-pitched
forms of new versify."-- the Bookseller (spiritual Dynasty).

"any one small with'Cloister lays,''the Mystic,'only., does not need to be state that they rank
with a new best genre.

And Mr. Rice's episode are not said by any same American author's....
and when the who are keen to poetic traditions cherished through some
adjective history of our language study the anemia and artificiality
of contemporaries, they can but assert that Title.

Rice has the grasp and sweep, the backbeat, imagery and pulsate sympathy, which in wondering office
are ascribed to intellectual."-- the Los Angeles Times. "this latest collection display no diminution in
Mr. Rice's versatility or quality of expression. Its poems are serious, enthusiastic, distinctively
free and vitally very in expectation."-- the Continent (Chicago). "Mr.
Rice is concerned with thoughts that are more than multiplex; they represent
a whole vision of the world events well transpiring... and his affirmation
of the immemorial in the the hour establishes him in the spiritual
admiration of a bard-prophet.... the bulk is the worthy addition to
the large amount of his work."-- Anna L. Hopper in the York Courier-Blog.



While the distribution of our transport steamers at the various points of embarkation will
have been taken care of by the loading commission, various difficulties would be encountered
in altering the vessels that by chance are at the disposal of the commission for transports,
such as unforeseen defects and inaccurate measurements of the foreign chartered steamers arriving
in our ports. The adjustment and equipment of these ships must be expedited so that the troops
can be despatched in masses as fast as they arrive. Once the ships reach the selected harbors
the necessary rearrangements probably can be made simultaneously with the loading, depending
upon the advance preparations and the presence of a skilled staff of workmen. The time needed
will depend somewhat upon the length of the voyage to be made.

In England the steamers for transporting troops to Cape Town, which is a long trip, were prepared
in four days for the infantry and in seven days for the cavalry and artillery. The consuming
of such time, even for a long sea voyage, must be considered poor execution. At the time of
our expedition to China we had the ships complete in a short time. For one steamer, the discharge
of the cargo, readjustment for transport and reloading, with the exception of the cavalry,
not more than two days need be consumed. For short distances, according to English and Russian
estimates, one day is required for infantry and two to two and one-half days for cavalry and
artillery. These periods can be greatly shortened through the efficiency of the building staff,
as pointed out previously.

The formation of the expedition corps must of course be established in the annual maneuvers.
Various factors, such as seasons, political aims, present situation of opponents, extent of
material for the available ships, all bear witness to the urgency of taking up measures in
advance for facilitating the work of mobilization. The speedy concentration of troops and materials
at the points of embarkation will make heavy demands upon the railroads, even though the haul
is short, and the shipment comparatively small. Arrangements should therefore be made with
the railroads to have on hand at all times sufficient rolling stock for these purposes, to
guarantee the prompt departure of the transports. It is urged that authority be given the loading
commission to supervise and direct this work. It must be taken into consideration that part
of the troops are inexperienced reserves and good order must be maintained. A high standard
of efficiency should prevail, to lessen the burdens of executing orders.

Numerous machine gun divisions increase the fighting strength and do not require great space
or support. The usefulness of a cyclist division depends entirely upon the condition of the
roads in the hostile country. For the reasons stated previously, cavalry would not suffer in
distribution of strength, which is customary in wars on land. In large over-seas operations
it is recommended that a special cavalry division or brigade be formed for reconnoitering purposes.
Beyond this, the strength of the cavalry division must be sufficient to render possible an
independent operation. It would also be of great value to the field artillery, of which an
ample supply is on hand.

Especially important is the method of distributing supply trains, for these require a great
deal of space and render landing very difficult. They also hinder the rapid movement of the
expedition corps. When the transports do not remain in close communication with the troops
after landing, a very large supply of stores is necessary to make the army independent of the
vessels. There should be added, therefore, a reserve ammunition column to that already provided.

A fixed amount of supplies should be determined upon, taking due consideration of the extent
of the voyage. The troops could requisition some materials from the hostile country.

EMBARKATION.

Proper loading is the business of the land forces and should be conducted by trained officers
so as to ensure the shipment of materials and men. To make landing effective the necessary
supplies should go on the vessels with the troops. A loading plan should be so drawn up in
advance as to meet all emergencies. The length of time consumed for loading depends on the
distance of the voyage.

At the most the limit of a short sea voyage for us has been considered about forty-eight hours.
This is too small an estimate; it should undoubtedly be doubled. The Italian General Staff
estimates the length of a short sea voyage to be five days. Besides, to preserve the fighting
worth of our troops, we must allow sufficient time for rest.

The troop transport capacity of a ship has heretofore been calculated by the ship's tonnage,
that is, sixty per cent. of the ship's capacity is net ton loading space. The necessary space
for us, for a long sea voyage, is set at two tons for each man and six to seven tons for each
horse. The English and Russian estimates are about the same. But the English transports to
Cape Town accommodated a larger number of troops than was thought possible, and the American
transports to Cuba were increased by one-third.

As for the arrangements which must be made for sleeping, cooking and washing and for a hospital
service, we need not go any further here, as they have been discussed at length in the press.
The stowing of equipment and baggage should be done in such a way as to make the articles available
on landing in the order in which they are needed. The ship's space required for maintenance
supplies for man and horse figures relatively as about one to five.

Coming next to the loading of the artillery, the rule should be to place all common and machine
guns on deck. A certain amount of ammunition should be stowed so as to be quickly accessible.
This is an essential measure to afford the transport protection from some privateer. The guns
should be securely placed to prevent their movement by the motion of the sea and to render
feasible their use on deck. Trials will soon be made to find the suitable means whereby field
artillery may be put to successful use on shipboard, and this testing will certainly repay
us. All rolling stock will be stowed away firmly in the freight space without removing the
wheels. The material and personnel of the field hospital should be divided among the ships,
so that a ship's hospital division may be formed. The airship division should be placed on
deck in such fashion that observation flights may be made during the voyage.

The shipping of horses is especially difficult. By former methods the horses had to stand the
entire trip and had practically no exercise. This left them in a weakened condition and made
necessary a long rest after arrival. For a war transport, in which is required a rapid and
successful offensive, such horses are not useful. Because of the important work to be done
by them after landing, careful attention should be given to the horses to keep them in good
working condition. To this end, proper nourishment must be given and facilities provided for
daily exercise while on the transports, which should consume at least three-quarters of an
hour for each horse.

Ships that are built particularly for the transportation of horses can be adjusted with four
decks over each other, including upper deck stables and two courses for exercise, so that a
transport of from three to four thousand net tons capacity can carry over one thousand horses.
Three ships would accommodate two cavalry brigades. On every large steamer many horses can
be shipped for a long trip, in addition to its regular quota of men and supplies.

After the transports have been prepared, about seven hundred and fifty horses, equal to one
cavalry regiment, or six batteries, can be loaded daily on the lower decks. Cleanliness, ventilation
and care are the three most important factors for the good health of the horses. Every horse
transport must be given ventilating apparatus to assure sufficient fresh air. Artificial ventilation
is to be preferred to natural ventilation, for if the latter becomes too strong the horses'
lungs are easily affected. Through this cause, for example, the American transport to Cuba
lost the greater number of their horses.

Likewise condensers are required for the necessary quantities of drinking water. It is recommended
that each ship be given its own condenser. The provision of only one or two large condensers
on special ships which supply the entire demand of the transport fleet, as the Americans employed
in their expedition to Cuba, has not proved practical.

For the short sea voyage, our transports would be able to despatch substantially more troops,
through Germany's geographical position. The strength of near-by powers requires, though, the
immediate utilization of all ships and materials at our disposal, if the operations are to
succeed. For short expeditions, the general rule will be to ship as many troops as the transports
will carry. The forces will bivouac on the upper and lower decks and receive only straw bags
and covers. They will keep their whole baggage with them. Cooking will be done in large field
kettles. If time permits, it is recommended that the same adjustments as for a long journey
be made for the horses, at least to provide separate stalls. This will prevent heavy losses
in case of rough weather. Guns and accessories can be disposed of in the same manner as for
long voyages.

The length of time for embarkation depends on whether the loading can be done from the wharves
of the harbors or whether the troops and materials must be taken out by lighters and then transferred
to the ships. The latter method is a waste of time and is dependent on wind and weather.

The time required for loading is as follows: Fifteen minutes for one hundred men, one minute
for one horse, ten minutes for a cannon. In an operation by the Russians, 8,000 men, including
infantry and cavalry, were embarked in eight hours. In our loading of East Asia transports,
it required one to one and one-half hours to load one battalion. The speed of our loading has
amazed departmental circles in general. It is certain, though, that this time can be greatly
reduced through detailed preparation and training. Napoleon I, in the year 1795, had ostensibly
drilled his troops so well that he could plan to put 132,000 men and their materials on shipboard
in two hours.

It must be remembered that everything, troops, guns and supplies must eventually be landed
on open coasts. Portable flat-bottom boats and building materials for piers must therefore
be carried on the transports. Special vessels must accompany the transport fleet with large
reserve supplies of food, equipment, ammunition, coal and so forth. A cable-laying ship is
also required.

We must now consider to what extent Germany is able to load forces for the execution of operations
which involve only a short voyage, in which success depends so much on speed. For embarkation
on the North Sea, Hamburg and Bremen alone could furnish so many steamers capable of being
converted into transports, that with their tonnage capacity the loading of four infantry divisions
is possible in a period of four days. With the addition of ships from Emden, Wilhelmshaven,
Glückstadt and Kiel we would be able to despatch in the same length of time, at least six infantry
divisions, or five infantry and one cavalry division. To these must be added several especially
large and fast German steamers, partly for the shipment that might be delayed and partly to
expedite the return to home waters. A large number of troops can also be shipped from Baltic
ports. Besides this, a repeated trip of the transport fleet is possible if the command of the
sea is maintained continuously.

For longer sea voyages, in which the importance of speed is not so great, our transport fleet
can be greatly increased through chartering or purchasing ships of foreign nations. Still,
we are at present in the position to despatch about four infantry divisions, with present available
ships, within ten or twelve days.

SEA VOYAGE.

For transporting troops over the sea, it is the chief problem of the navy to clear the course
to the hostile shore. All enterprises of this kind are dependent on the battle fleet, whose
first aim, therefore, must be to run down and attack the enemy's fleet which the transports
might encounter; if the opportunity is afforded our fleet must bring about an engagement for
the command of the sea at least by the time of embarkation. As the mobilizing of the battle
ships is finished before the transport fleet is ready to put to sea, they can undertake an
early offensive to make secure the passage of the expedition. Also, throughout the voyage offensive
operations can be undertaken by the battle fleet, in waters distant from the transport, which
would serve the same ends of keeping the course clear.

The escorts of the transport squadron should consist of just enough ships to give immediate
protection. A large number would increase unnecessarily the size of the transport fleet without
increasing its safety, while every addition of strength to the battle fleet is of the greatest
value. The task of the escorts is only to protect the transports from attacks by single or
several small vessels of the enemy. Our torpedo boats are particularly adapted for escort service,
and make it feasible to restrict the number of large battle ships used for this purpose. During
the assembling of the transports, these boats may devote themselves to secure the safety of
the traffic between the loading harbors.

The departure of the transports from the various harbors must be so regulated that they sail
in close union, to assure a safe voyage and a quick landing. The loading commission must take
appropriate means to expedite the loading in those harbors farthest removed from the central
assembling points. As a rule, the transport steamers would sail with the battle fleet; but
in the English expedition to South Africa and ours to East Asia, this rule was not followed.

An essential requirement is that the transports put to sea as soon as the loading is complete.
They cannot wait for news of the success of the battle fleet. A certain risk is involved, but
it is not great, for the transport fleet can always turn back. Only an early departure would
insure successful, unexpected landing. The shorter the voyage the greater the necessity for
a surprise attack.

In the event of our battle fleet being attacked, it does not follow that the transport operations
must be abandoned, for if the voyage be short an energetic continuation of the venture will
command a fair prospect of success. Even the victor in a great naval battle might not be able
to carry out an attack against the transport squadron. An individual hostile battle ship or
cruiser would find it difficult to break into the transport fleet.

An important factor in the sea voyage, perhaps the most important, is the weather. For short
distances, it is possible to a certain degree to choose favorable weather for the passage,
with the help of scientific forecasts. Conditions might be such that a delay would not harm
the operations. Adverse weather conditions would more seriously affect long-distance transporting,
to a degree that might cause abandonment. Our vessels must be so improved as to make them independent
of wind and weather, to make certain the speed of the voyage and to permit the establishing
of a time record. For the time of the passage, the highest speed of the slowest boat is the
standard, which could probably be increased by towing with tugs.

In putting to sea all transport ships must retain the order of position they are to take in
the squadron; this order is not broken until after leaving the harbor, so that the object of
the voyage is known only to the home officials. The advance guard of troops will sail in the
fastest ships so that they can make the unexpected landing. The pioneer and airship divisions
are placed with the advance guard. The ships which have artillery ride on the flank of the
troop transports. Then follow the ships carrying supplies. The cable ship comes last. The laying
of the cable gives a continuous communication with the home country. For extensive voyages,
preparations must be made for taking on coal on the open sea. The commander-in-chief of the
expedition corps should be on a transport steamer so that in event of a fight the transport
fleet will not be without proper guidance.

On long sea voyages, gymnastics, drilling and target practise can be pursued. Ample daily exercising
of the horses will occupy the greater part of the time of the cavalry. For short sea voyages
these features are not so necessary. In general, strict discipline must be exercised to overcome
the tediousness of the trip.

While the command of the troops on every transport is in the oldest officer, the command of
the ship remains in the hands of the captain, who is inferior in rank to the commander of the
troops. If this captain has not served in the German navy, a midshipman may be signed as a
coordinate officer. It is our policy to provide every transport ship with a naval officer.

LANDING.

Military history shows that an attempt to prevent a really bold landing is never successful.
The defense must either scatter its forces along the coast to be protected, or concentrate
its full strength to cover one point, while the assailant, through the mobility of its transport,
can keep its landing plan uncertain, and under the protection of long-range guns on the ships
can throw more troops quickly on the land than the defense is able to concentrate in the same
time. A simultaneous landing at different places is hazardous if the opponent can muster considerable
strength. An expedition is seldom so large that disadvantages arise through landing at one
point. On the other hand, it would require a great many battleships for the protection of numerous
landing places. A division of the forces weakens all of them, and great difficulty would be
found in uniformly managing the start of the operations for want of time and means. Therefore,
it is recommended, when the situation permits, to select one central place for landing.

For the disembarking a harbor is of course the most advantageous; less advantageous but always
favorable is an enclosed, protected bay; the most unfavorable is the open coast. Yet a landing
on the open coast would encounter little resistance if it is carried out with great speed.
If the chosen landing place be near a bay or a seaport town, it would be the mission of the
first landed advance guard to seize this port, to make it possible for the transport fleet
to disembark the mass of troops, horses and materials. The occupation of a good harbor will
greatly hasten the unloading, prevent a hostile attack from the sea and add greatly to the
ability of the landing corps to carry on the operations. If a seizure of a port is not possible,
the landing of the entire expedition must take place by means of prepared disembarking contrivances.
Every transport must be equipped for landing on an open coast.

The best landing place is a site nearest the object of the operations, which would force the
opponents to a decision before they were thoroughly prepared. Clear coast regions within range
of the ships' guns are desirable, as is also quiet, deep water near to the landing site.

It is possible to land within range of important hostile garrisons and fortifications. Russian
landing maneuvers have demonstrated the truth of this statement. Fortifications are effective
against landing enterprises only when sufficient troops are on hand to defend the coast. If
the assailant is successful in landing a detachment of troops out of the range of the fortifications,
the latter would be ineffective for defense. The best security, however, for the initial landing
is its unexpected delivery. Reconnoitering of the coast site by boats sent beforehand is an
absurdity, for the opponents immediately become acquainted with the landing plans and are given
time for preparations for defense. Of great importance for rapid, well-regulated landing is
uniform management through the signal service of the ships and the telephone service on land,
which can be installed advantageously. In anchoring the ships must be the correct distance
apart, to avoid crowding.

The execution of the landing as a rule is as follows: The advance guard rides ahead, on the
last stretch, with its own escort of battleships, and lands, if possible, unawares, usually
at night. If the landing be on an open coast, the mass of troops which follow should immediately
throw up earthworks. The entire disembarking must be made with great speed, for the quicker
the landing is accomplished the less the danger of being disturbed. The most favorable time
for attacking the coast is at dawn, for the landing can take place unknown to the enemy and
day be used for disembarking. As the ships do not carry a sufficient number of patent boats
for landing on an open coast, special flat-bottom boats should be prepared for unloading horses
and heavy material. The English employ collapsible boats for landing men, which accommodate
a crew of fifty, while the Russians have flat-bottom boats capable of holding two hundred men,
or one complete cannon. It is recommended that we be permitted to try the Russian model, which
has been well tested. Small power boats should be employed for tugging, as rowing would be
a waste of valuable time. To permit horses to swim ashore is to be condemned, for it would
cause confusion and delay, and we know from experience that a large number are sometimes lost.
The Americans, in their landing in Cuba, lost seven per cent. of their horses. For the landing
of artillery and heavy materials small landing bridges must be erected on the beach, for which
prepared material is carried on the transports. The assembling of the troops must not be permitted
on the beach, for all space there must be kept for the landing of supplies.

If a landing near a harbor is successful, the advance guard will strive to take the same unawares,
to seize those coast sentinels at hand and to destroy the telegraph and signal service along
the coast. If all this is successful, the transport fleet will be signaled to draw near. The
advantage is apparent in landing in a large harbor or bay, which affords the possibility of
protection from a sea attack, through the mining of the waters or through the guard of a limited
number of battleships. Earthworks, equipped with cannon and machine guns, must be thrown up
for the protection from the land side.

The piers must be distributed to make sufficient room for disembarking. The existing plans
for improvising landing bridges and gangways should be extended, in order to expedite the landing.
The piers and bridges will be used for ships carrying horses, artillery and heavy materials,
while the infantry land by boats, under the protection of large guns on shore or of the escorting
battleships, should the battle fleet maintain command of the sea. The landed troops should
be supplied provisions for many days so that they can begin operations independent of the supply
trains.

The time required for landing is considerably less than for loading. The natural desire of
the troops to land quickly helps to shorten the time. One writer gives the following data:
Lord Cochran landed 18,000 men on the open coast of America in five hours; in the Crimean War
the English accomplished the disembarking of 45,000 men, 83 guns and about 100 horses in less
than eleven hours. The French are slower on account of their handling of supply trains. The
Russians, in their landing maneuvers in the Black Sea, have landed a slow division in eleven
and one-half hours, where the steamers had to anchor five to six kilometers from the coast.
The marine writer Degories figures that under average conditions it is possible to land 25,000
infantry, 1,000 cavalry and 60 guns in six hours. If the landing can be made in a harbor, this
time can be essentially lessened.

After the disembarking of the expedition, the further task of the transport fleet and its escort
of battleships depends on the maritime strength of the country attacked. If the assailant continues
in command of the sea, the transport fleet can remain as a floating base for the landed corps
and can effect the reenforcement of the expedition. If the assailant is not in command of the
sea, then the transport fleet must attempt to evade the operations of the hostile fleet, by
an immediate retreat to home waters.

OPERATIONS.

The operations of the landed expedition corps on the whole can be conducted according to the
principles set down by the commanders of the troops, but these principles must take into account
the particular conditions under which the forces operate. The well-known marine writer, Mahan,
emphasizes the fact that a landing operation must be offensive to succeed. Military history
shows that after boldly carried out landings at Abukir and Cape Breton, for example, the success
of the extensive operations was impaired, almost lost, because of lack of energy and rapidity
of execution of offensive movements. The assembled strength must be thrown forward on the line
of least resistance. Defensive strategy should be used only when a delay is necessary to receive
expected reenforcements. The primary aim of the operations is to dispose of hostile forces,
within the shortest possible time and with the least loss to ourselves.

During the progress of the operations the country through which the troops pass can be drawn
upon to supplement equipment and supplies, but the speed of the advance and the efficiency
of the troops must not be decreased through extended raids. While the distance to the objective
of the invasion is generally not great, it should be our endeavor to be independent of our
base of supplies. Much progress has been made in the methods of making condensed foods, for
man and horse, which will help to solve the problem of provisions. The army of invasion can
also take an important site in the hostile country and utilize it as a base of operations.
Continuous communication with the home country is therefore not absolutely necessary. In a
densely populated and rich country it is easy to secure provisions and supplies. The maintenance
of long lines of communications is hazardous in that it requires excessive guard duty. When
the battle fleet has gained command of the sea it will be in a position to protect continuously
the base on the coast, and would also make it possible for the corps of invasion to select
new bases. Sherman's march to Savannah in the Civil War has shown the practicability of this
plan. After one objective has been attained, it should be possible for the expedition to reembark
to land at some other point on the coast for further operations.

Against the enemy's defenses we must throw our full strength and avoid enterprises that involve
a delay or a weakening of our forces. Dearly purchased victories will in the end defeat our
own aims.

If the operations of the troops are carried on along the coast, or if the objective of the
operations is a harbor or a coast fortification, the battle fleet should act in unison with
the land forces. Battleships are superior to the field artillery, as they can be moved at will
and so are hard to put out of action. Continuous bombardment from the battleships would prove
effective aid for the troops.

It is important, then, that the command of land and naval forces be joined in a commander-in-chief
who would direct the field forces as well as the naval forces. Small coast defenses of seaport
cities could not for any length of time withstand such a combined attack. It is certain also
that present-day coast defenses could not withstand an energetic attack from the land side.
They are more vulnerable than inland fortresses because they are open to attack simultaneously
from land and water. However, if the battle fleet cannot gain the command of the sea, and must
retreat before the opposing forces, the operations of the landed troops must be conducted wholly
as a war on land.

REEMBARKATION.

A reembarkation of the expedition corps is possible only when the battle fleet is able to prevent
attack from the sea. In the event of defeat on land, reembarkation is not absolutely impossible,
for if good order is maintained the improvised defenses of the landing sites, with the help
of the fleet, will sufficiently delay the pursuers. If the reembarking must take place from
some other point, preparations for its defense must be made in advance. When the reembarkation
is done with the aim in view of attacking at another place, the rules as explained in the chapter
on "Embarkation" must be adhered to. For such an operation, more time is essential, and pressure
of the enemy should not be permitted to interfere with its management.

APPLICATION

I. CONSIDERATION OF LANDING OPERATIONS AGAINST POWERS THAT CAN BE REACHED ONLY BY SEA

The recognized military complication with England and America affords an interesting example
on account of the difference in distances in which the transporting of troops takes place,
on account of the strength of the sea and land fighting forces of the two opponents, and lastly
on account of the difference in the territorial extensions of the aforesaid countries, and
on the whole challenges various measures.

A conflict with England must be fixed in the eye of Germany, for the great German struggle
for commerce represents to England just as great a danger as the advance of Russia against
India. Beginning operations with a naval war with England, we could almost foresee the result.

England has brought about the existence of such a powerful, active navy that we, with the best
defenses we have, would hardly be able to win a decisive victory. Only by closing an alliance
with Russia would the strength of England be injured indeed, but never by a direct threat from
these provinces. But an alliance with France would in fact menace England. The latter, however,
through her geographical location and through her large and timely expenditures, which every
combined operation demands, could make possible by proper equipment a maritime superiority
against this alliance.

England's weakness is in just that which forms our strength, namely, the land army. The English
army responds to neither quantity nor quality of its great and powerful position in comparison
with the extent of the land; therefore England, from convictions, proceeds so that every invasion
of the land can be prevented by the fleet. These convictions are in no way justified, for while
England in developing a powerful sea-fighting strength has every day prepared for war, she
has not had a view of the consequences of confronting and beating a really weaker sea opponent
with its fighting units. 

Who for a Kaiser has the Oath, that everlastingly is infinite.

I know your HEART, o SEA!

We know your heart, o Ocean!

You are flip out with contemptuous ambition earth have ever; you run at the operations, you fling
foolish billows of beaches, you reach at questions with fingers of embarkation to crumple they; yes,
always been at alp tops it create your purpose of the earth is the
equator is equipped namely of waters!

I know your surging heart! Tides wild and all-unknown it, Tide be spurred by the wind to ours champ
and complaint and thunder tho the undertaking and moon and rein them-- at the farmstead, this
breeding-place of mortals, of babu who are eternally transform life, and even taking your salt
to savor their tears.

I know your tides, i know them! "Down," they rage we, "with questing of babu, and crying! With
their continents-- beginning are of despair! Less entombing operations for them, better our
ditch unfathomed, where birth, life, death undertaking-better for all, and where iniquity sludge
enshrouds are past resurrection!"

Ah, yes, i can us cognize your heart! I have learn it rave at coast-lights
to uncover you, i have watched it foam ships that sought to withstand
you, i have seen it are straining at cables that cross you, bearing
whispers hid to you, or heave at waves of air that tell your hurricanes.
I ignore, i cognize our course!

Complement you will be incidentally sink, and shores will
sink; but the shore shall be fleet'made element utterly, been from whence
his beacon transport shall signal the goalless, whose fleets travel
by, star after star, bearing their cold load to Port which merely
strength shall find! This might consist of one army corps
with three divisions, or one army corps comprised of two divisions, with perhaps a cavalry
brigade made up from three army corps. Whereas the army strength of an English division is
about 10,000 men, a German division carries 16,000 men, hence four German divisions and a cavalry
division would have a superiority over the English army. But we are in a position to set over
in England, in the shortest time, six divisions of infantry, or five divisions of infantry
and one cavalry division.

How a well regulated operation against England is to be conducted across the sea, obviously
cannot be forecasted here. The passage in moderate weather is a little over thirty hours' ride
from our North Sea harbors. The English coast affords extensive stretches of shore which are
suitable for landing troops. The land contains such large resources that the invading army
can procure a living therefrom. On the other hand, the extent of the island is not so great
that the English land defenses could ever succeed in timely destroying a successful invading force.

It is improbable that Germany could carry on for very long a well regulated war necessitating
considerable reenforcement of troops. The supplies would have to be furnished for the greater
part on land. Maintaining communication with the home country can therefore readily be seen
to be of importance.

It is conclusive that the first aim of every operation of invasion in England is their field
army, and the second must be London. It is probable that these two objectives would fall together,
in that the field army, on account of the small value of the volunteers, is needed for the
protection of London fortifications, so as not to leave the metropolis insufficiently defended.
Powerful public opinion would demand this for fear that London would fall into the hands of
the invaders. But if London is taken by the invading army this would still be only one of the
many war ports which must be seized, to secure a base of supplies and for the further operations
which have every view to concluding the overthrow of England.

Operations against the United States of North America must be entirely different. With that
country, in particular, political friction, manifest in commercial aims, has not been lacking
in recent years, and has, until now, been removed chiefly through acquiescence on our part.
However, as this submission has its limit, the question arises as to what means we can develop
to carry out our purpose with force, in order to combat the encroachment of the United States
upon our interests. Our main factor here is our fleet. Our battle fleet has every prospect
of victoriously defeating the forces of the United States, widely dispersed over the two oceans.
It is certain that after the defeat of the United States fleet, the great extension of unprotected
coast line and powerful resources of that country would compel them to make peace.

There is no effective method to force this opponent to relinquish its maritime operations,
even though there is only a trifling number of American merchantmen, except the simultaneous
blockading with our sea forces of American ports, which can only be taken with heavy losses,
while our fleet demonstrated the actual limited worth of the unpacified American colonies.

It must be deemed a possibility that the battle fleet of the United States would not risk an
engagement at sea except to avoid a disaster, but would await, in its fortified harbors, a
favorable opportunity to strike. It is evident, then, that a naval war against the United States
cannot be carried on with success without at the same time inaugurating action on land. Because
of the great extensions of the United States it would not be satisfactory for the operation
of an invading army to be directed toward conquering the interior of the land. It is almost
a certainty, however, that a victorious assault on the Atlantic coast, tying up the importing
and exporting business of the whole country, would bring about such an annoying situation that
the government would be willing to treat for peace.

If the German invading force were equipped and ready for transporting the moment the battle
fleet is despatched, under average conditions these corps can begin operations on American
soil within at least four weeks. To what extent we will be able to succeed has already been
considered.

The United States at this time is not in a position to oppose our troops with an army of equal
rank. Its regular army actually totals 65,000 men, of whom not more than 30,000 are ready to
defend the home country. Of these at least 10,000 men are required to guard Indian territory
and for the garrisoning of coast-wise fortifications, so that only a regular army of 20,000
is available for field service. There is also a militia of 100,000 men, the larger number of
whom have not been trained since the last war summons, and they are poorly equipped with inferior
rifles and still more poorly drilled.

If an unexpected invasion of the United States is prevented by the length of time for the transporting
of troops, and only an unexpected landing can take place, it must be emphasized that the weakness
and inexperience of their regular army would essentially facilitate a quick invasion.

For the continued occupation of as large a territory as the United States, if they can oppose
us for any length of time, an important fighting force will be necessary, to protect the operating
lines and to carry on a successful warfare. An invading operation will be difficult to reenforce,
in that a second trip of the transport fleet will be required, in order to despatch the necessary
number of troops, at such a great distance.

It is upon the whole questionable whether there is anything to be gained in occupying for any
length of time so large a stretch of land as the United States. The fact that one or two of
her provinces are occupied by the invaders would not alone move the Americans to sue for peace.
To accomplish this end the invaders would have to inflict real material damage by injuring
the whole country through the successful seizure of many of the Atlantic seaports in which
the threads of the entire wealth of the nation meet. It should be so managed that a line of
land operations would be in close juncture with the fleet, through which we would be in a position
to seize, within a short time, many of these important and rich cities, to interrupt their
means of supply, disorganize all governmental affairs, assume control of all useful buildings,
confiscate all war and transport supplies, and lastly, to impose heavy indemnities. For enterprises
of this sort small land forces would answer our purpose, for it would be unwise for the American
garrisons to attempt an attack.

Their excellently developed net of railways will enable them to concentrate their troops in
a relatively short time at the various recognized landing points on the coast. But there are
many other splendid landings, and it appears feasible for the invading corps to conduct its
operations on these points with the cooperation of the fleet. The land corps can either advance
aggressively against the concentrated opposing forces, or through embarking evade an attack
and land at a new place.

As a matter of fact, Germany is the only great power which is in a position to conquer the
United States. England could of course carry out a successful attack on the sea, but she would
not be prepared to protect her Canadian provinces, with which the Americans could compensate
themselves for a total or crushing defeat on the sea. None of the other great powers can provide
the necessary transport fleet to attempt an invasion.

II. VIEWS ON COLONIAL EXPEDITIONS

All operations for colonial expeditions can be undertaken successfully because of the small
forces necessary to transport over the sea to make war upon a country which does not possess
modern equipment and trained troops. Just such an expedition was unostentatiously carried out
in China before our own eyes.

The sending of an expedition to East Asia affords an interesting example of what can be done.
Without resistance we have set up governments at a distance from the home country. It is possible
with the aid of the fleet to secure similar results. However, there are many obstacles to be
overcome. It is imperative that in time of peace we should prepare in every possible way for
war in foreign lands which have any commercial value for us. Inasmuch as the German army has
determined upon larger divisions of troops, the problems of operations on the distant sea falls
to the navy. In the future the conducting of such operations will rest with the General Staff.
It will be necessary to continue the preparations, described fully in the forepart of this
book, for the carrying out of operations against such countries as Asia, Africa and South America.
Good judgment must be used in the selection of methods. The execution of the first operations
would require the constantly combined efforts of the General Staff and the Admiral Staff.

Our excellent knowledge of East Asia has given us the necessary technical preparation in the
way of equipment. The chartering of transport ships for service to China should not be difficult
in consequence of the large size of the expedition. The expedition corps would require eighteen
ships, material and supplies would take five. The greater part of this number would be amply
supplied by our two large steamship companies, the North German Lloyd and the Hamburg-American
Line. The charter of these steamship companies provides for their use as transports if needed
for expeditions of this sort. The disadvantages of this arrangement once appeared in the delay
through a labor strike, when it was necessary to transport part of the unfinished ships to
Wilhelmshaven. Another drawback is that not enough room is provided in these ships. On the
steamers of the Hamburg-American Line, for example, only sixty-five per cent. of their normal
passenger capacity can be utilized for troops which means at the most an approximate displacement
of three net tons, so that only one man instead of two can be carried. An adjustment should
be reached to the end that the entire freight capacity of the steamers could be counted upon.

The interior arrangements of a steamer to be used for troop transport must be planned according
to law. Fire-extinguishers, life-saving apparatus and other necessities must be provided for;
numerous tables and benches which can be drawn up to the ceiling should be in the troops rooms,
and should also be found up on deck. Hospital arrangements for two and one-half per cent. of
the transport strength should be provided.

The active troops of the expedition corps are at present drawn from volunteers, the reserve
and the militia, and grouped in new formations. Through this the home defenses may be benefited,
but the expedition corps would not be up to standard, even though the newly formed troops would
have sufficient time to concentrate. It is advisable for such an expedition to employ active,
well-trained soldiers for the main part, while the balance could be made up of reserves. It
is also to be recommended that in the near future we form a fixed body of troops trained for
hospital service. Such a formation would have great intrinsic worth.

A few words should be said about the organizing of a Colonial army, which would be called upon
to play an essential part in German military operations over the sea. It would be of extraordinary
value in preserving order in our colonies and would also be of assistance in commercial aims.
The Colonial army would constitute a picked body of men, suitable for service in hot climates
and uncivilized countries, who would be able to fight effectively against colonies with which
we might be at war.

There would still remain, however, the need of preparation of our home forces for colonial
expeditions. We are not assured at present of the assembling of the necessary number of qualified
troops without drawing on our regular army.

It requires a good deal of time to procure the equipment for an expedition to East Asia. Therefore,
contracts with capable firms should be made, to make delivery in the shortest possible time.

While the equipment of the infantry with up-to-date weapons is easily accomplished, it is noteworthy
that only about thirty horses can be loaded by the English system. Some effort should be made
to solve the horse problem. The purchasing of horses in Australia, America and South China
has ceased, in consequence of the knowledge that only a small percentage can withstand the
change of climate.

It would be impossible to employ joint cavalry forces, due to lack of mounts. It is imperative
to find the means for forming a mounted infantry, for there is an insufficient number of advanced
cavalry troops to meet an emergency. It would be advantageous if large brigades now idle could
be moved for operations in Eastern China. Past experience in China has emphasized the great
importance of cavalry for operations in large countries.

The losses in newly purchased horses would be greater than if we would send trained horses
accustomed to military service. The great loss in transporting horses is no longer to be feared.
The experience of the English in transporting horses to Cape Town proves the worth of their
loading system. And it should be pointed out that the Prussian horses, through their training,
can endure climatic changes and the hardships of sea transportation much better than the English
horses.

The thirty horses on the transport must be well taken care of to reach East Asia. The ships
should be fitted out with this aim in view. Accidents usually occur in crossing the equator.
The Red Sea and the Indian Ocean are especially difficult to cross. This could be overcome
by sending the transport by way of Cape Town, where a part of the trip could be made south
through the Tropic of Cancer. It has been demonstrated that horses not older than from ten
to sixteen years should be selected for service abroad. No fear need be felt as to the feeding
of the horses, for our horses are accustomed to little corn. Sometimes feedings of soaked rice
with molasses added have given favorable results.

A possible help for the outfitting of the artillery would be the purchasing in Italy of native
mules and loading them at Genoa. In English sea-transporting these animals have demonstrated
their exceptional powers of resistance. They are preferable to horses because they can endure
hardships better and can more easily be accustomed to conditions in East Asia.

While we have a large variety of artillery, our expedition corps must be equipped with mountain
guns which can be carried by beasts of burden. This is often necessary in colonial expeditions.
Experience shows that it is difficult to move the heavy artillery of the field army over bad
roads, and the large guns would not get very far. This is true also of the steel-boat bridge
trains. It is surprising that our collapsible boats, universally approved as superior, are
not utilized.

Our military arrangements have not included a suitable hospital service, because the ambulances
are too heavy and unwieldy. The French seem to have been afforded very good service by the
so-called cacolets--saddle horses with pack saddles for the sick and wounded. These are excellent
for use in colonial countries. A light wagon model is generally recommended for supplies, for
despite the condition of the roads they must be able to follow the troops.

It is a question how the unfavorable conditions of communication with our men-of-war can be
improved. Once the forces and supplies are in Bremen and Bremerhaven no difficulties would
be found in embarking. For the future a central place is recommended from which the expedition
corps can sail.

If thorough preparations are made the loading of the transports can be accomplished in two
or three days; by the old method of loading it took two days for each ship. To facilitate the
work, the loading should be done simultaneously on both sides of the steamer. The greater part
of the supplies can be brought by tugs from Bremen to Bremerhaven. The troops can consequently
embark at Quai in about four hours. The vessels, which have been arranged to utilize all available
space, can also carry all accouterments, ammunition and supplies. Great delay and inconvenience
might be caused by not accurately calculating the massive proportions of the military shipment.
It is therefore above all argument that the military authorities and not the steamship company
should oversee the loading so that it would be done properly from a military standpoint. Through
a haphazard loading, the detached troops might not go in the same boat with their belongings,
and they might not even know where their individual effects were stowed. Disembarking would
be difficult and delayed, causing the forces to wait a long time for the unloading of their
guns and ammunition.

With regard to the sea voyage, it is very advantageous for us that the sailing of the joint
fleet is not required. The trip by transport would take from forty-two to fifty-seven days.
The trip from Shanghai to Taku can be made successfully with the aid of our battle fleet. The
transports should sail without artillery equipment, so that no difficulty would be experienced
in getting letters-of-marque; but if they could have on deck even a small amount of the guns
which they have on board, they would have nothing to fear from privateers or auxiliary cruisers.
Upon arrival at Taku, considerable difficulties might be encountered, for it is reported that
it is practically impossible to procure the extra help needed.

Considering a landing at Tsingtau, it should be noted that there has not been provided a sufficient
number of disembarking boats. This situation proves that under all circumstances the troop
transport must be equipped independently to land its troops and supplies.

Experience has taught us that a great deal of preparation is necessary to undertake colonial
expeditions and it behooves us now to lay a foundation for future operations over the sea.

III. CONCLUDING VIEWS

Many operations of our army, under protection of the fleet, can be conducted in hitherto unexpected
directions; many commands which our fleet may not be able to carry out alone can be accomplished
by the combination of the land and sea forces. Now if the army across the sea is able to resist
our strength, it is necessary to prepare in advance to have our battle fleet so strong that
it will be in a position to assist materially in any undertaking of our troops. From studies
of the strength of our various opponents across the sea whom we must aim at, because their
neighboring territory is of great importance to us, it is plain that we must enlarge our fleet
to protect our commercial interests. It is essential that the speed of our battle fleets be
increased. Not the least important thing to realize is the fact that as a rule it is impossible
to undertake large operations across the sea, and to carry them out successfully, unless exhaustive
preparations are made during times of peace.

THE END

