CHRISTMAS
  COMES
  BUT
  ONCE A YEAR

  Showing What

  Mr. Brown Did, Thought, And Intended To Do,
  During That Festive Season.

  Now First Edited From The Original MSS. (Mess).

  With Notes and Illustrations

  By LUKE LIMNER, Esq.

  London:
  William Tegg and Co., 85, Queen Street, Cheapside.
  M.DCCC.L.

Prime Movers.

JOHN BROWN, Esq.-- Citizen of London and Suburban Snob.

JOHN BROWN, Jun., Esq.-- "Fast Gent;" Son and Heir to the above
  "Brick!"-- I believe you, my boys, rather!

Master THOMAS BROWN.-- Apple of his Mother's eye-- "her Tommy-wommy"--
  "her dear boy"-- "her jewel of a pet."

Captain BONAVENTURE DE CAMP.-- Officer, late of the Hon. E. I. Co's.
  Service, but now at the service of any one.

LATIMER DE CAMP.-- Master of (He) Arts; Elder Son of the above, of
  Nobodynose College, Oxford.

WELLESLEY DE CAMP.-- Cadet of Sandboys Military College.

SOAVO SPOHF.-- Composer; Organist at St. Stiff's the Martyr;
  Mr. Brown's ex-friend.

JOHN (BROWN).-- Footman to John Brown, Esq.; late Private in the
  44th foot.

TOBIAS STRAP.-- Grocer in Greens, Landlord to Mr. Spohf, and
  Supernumerary help to any body.

ICHABOD STRAP.-- (Son of his sire) commonly called "Alphonso,"
  but sometimes "Buttons."

Mrs. BENIGMA BROWN.-- Rib of John Brown, Esq.-- Ruler of his roast
  and boiled.

Miss JEMIMA BROWN.   }  Eligible Young Ladies-- very so--
                           to any one inclined to a
Miss ANGELINA BROWN. }     matter-o'-money-all alliance.

Lady LUCRETIA DE CAMP.-- Spouse of "the Captain;" Lady in her own
  right (and wrong).

DEBORAH STRAP.-- (Consort of T. S. above) Pue-packer at St. Stiff's
  the Martyr.

Guests, Cooks, Maids, Lanthorn-bearers, extra Flunkeys, Police,
  &c., &c., &c., &c.

SCENE.-- Victoria and Albert Villas, Mizzlington, near London.

TIME.-- Christmas.

List of Plates.
                                                             PAGE

John Brown, Esq., as he appeared every Evening      Frontispiece.

The Carol--"Tidings of Comfort and Joy!"                         1

The Waits serenading Victoria and Albert Villas                  5

Christmas Eve--The Market--Brown buying Holly                   13

Christmas Dinners--Good Living, at least, Once a Year           18

The Pudding, as it ought to have appeared                       23

Bringing in the Yule-log                                        25

Boxing-day--The Beadle offended                                 28

The Pantomime--"Here we are again!"                             34

The Compliments of the Season (a cold)                          40

The Quadrille--Cavalier seul                                    57

The Stair-case--Captain de Camp and the Wall-flower             63

Forfeits--The Double Toilet                                     80

The Christmas Tree--Presentation of Fruit                       83

Mummery--Trick of the Old Dame                                  84

Kitchen Conversation                                            92

Very cold, very bleak; the thermometer and snow are falling fast; eggs and suet are rising
faster; everything at this season is "prized," and everybody apprizes everybody else of the
good they wish them,--"A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR!" Even the shivering caroller,
for "it is a poor heart that never rejoices," is yelling forth the "tidings of comfort and
joy." The snow that descends, making park and common alike--topping palace and pigsty, now
crowns the semi-detached villas, Victoria and Albert. They were erected from the designs of
John Brown, Esq. and his architect (or builder), and are considered a fine specimen of compo-cockney-gothic,
in which the constructor has made the most of his materials; for, to save digging, he sank
the foundation in an evacuated pond, and, as an antidote to damp, used wood with the dry-rot--the
little remaining moisture being pumped out daily by the domestics. The floors are delightfully
springy, having cracks to precipitate the dirt, and are sloped towards the doorways, so that
the furniture is perpetually trying to walk out of the rooms; but those apertures are ingeniously
planned to prevent the evil--the doors obstinately refusing to open at all, without force.
That the whole may not appear too light, few windows are introduced. By casual observers the
Victoria and Albert would be taken for one--so united are they; and had we not seen the parting
division, we should have doubted also. Of the entrance lodges, we have noticed one of the chimneys
smoking periodically; and, from the mollient white vapour issuing over the window at such times,
presume Victoria is washing, whilst Albert is locked up and doing nothing.

Their lord and master is John Brown, Esq., Director of the Deptford Direct, the Stag Assurance,
and Churchwarden of this parish--St. Stiff the Martyr,--a portly upright man; for had he not
been so erect, to balance a "fair round belly," he would have toppled on his nose. Everybody
said that he was clever, too--and, moreover, always thought so; for luck had made our friend
a rising man amongst the suburban aristocracy of Mizzlington. Of Mrs. Brown, she is his match,
and portly too; though older and more crusty--a crummy dame, to whom her lord must bow; for,
upon his hinting at duty, and an obedient wife's commanding her husband, she ordered him off,
reading the adage as a woman ought. Of the Misses Brown, Jemima and Angelina, they are decidedly
getting old--for young ladies, having been "out" for some time; and, like the back numbers
of an old periodical, are not the more interesting or marketable for it. Of the sons, the elder,
John Brown, jun., is spoiling himself by patronising all that is "fast;" whilst the younger
is being educated for a faster age, being spoilt first by his mother.

Having characterised the Brown family, we will now introduce you to the first scene of this
domestic drama. Victoria Villa--a dormitory--midnight; in the back ground may be seen and heard
a lady in a rich mellow snore, whilst distant music--the Christmas Waits, is "softly o'er the
senses stealing," and loud in the promise of "a good time coming," provided you will "wait
a little longer." Mr. Brown is seated at the dressing-table, making up his Diary, or rather
trying to cram the events  of twenty-four hours into the leaf of a pocket-book, five and a
half inches by three and a quarter--his usual custom before rest:--

"December 21st, Friday.--Advertised in this day's 'Times,' to let Albert, furnished, from the
25th, with use of servants, if required (double-house and household at half-price--grand effect
united with economy). Tommy came home from Dr. Tortem's, with holiday-letter, bill, and wonderful
crop of hair--considering it costs me five shillings per quarter to cut; brimstone and treacle,
under head--medicine, charged ten and six; firing and broken windows, two pounds; &c.:--what
most unlucky things turn up on a Friday! I much wish I had not advertised Albert to-day--no
one will come." With these observations, and a consolatory grumble about Christmas coming but
once a year, Mr. Brown seeks repose beside his consort; whilst the Waits make the lowing wind,
the frigid vegetation, and the rattling shutters, dance again to the "Bridal Polka."

Sweet sleep--and morning dawns.--The Browns depart, as is their daily custom, by the omnibus--the
elder to chat inside, the younger to smoke out;--and both to business in the city. Whilst,
at home, Master Tommy displays the "advancement made in his studies"--as the holiday-letter
states,--by practising writing in the "Book of Beauty;" his knowledge of natural history, by
attempting to rear gold-fish (like eels) in sand; searching for the tick in an eight-day clock;
setting bits of raw beef in the back garden, that the portion (like potatoes) might grow to
young bullocks; filling the bellows' snout with gunpowder, that they may blow the fire up;
putting the cat in walnut-shells upon the icy pond, and himself in the middle of it; playing
racket in the drawing-room; and constructing a snow man against the back-door to fall in upon
Sarah, almost frightening her to death; and many other experimental, philosophical tricks,
too numerous to mention.

During this day the semi-detached is besieged by a lady and gentleman in search of a home.
The gentleman, dressed in a very tight frock-coat, dusty and worn; a highly-glazed cap, the
strap of which dangled above a tuft of hair, that graced his chin, its peak resting upon the
tip of his nose, affording him little more than a view of his boots, with a portion of the
hose protruding therefrom; his tightly-strapped trowsers carrying a broad stripe, of which
he appeared proud, being engaged in the manufacture of many more in other parts, by knocking
the dust out of them with a slight cane; of his gloves, they seemed determined to end their
days in their normal state, and to produce neither mits nor finger-stalls. The couple looking
very limp and tumbled;--a thing duly apologised for, and not to be wondered at--having just
arrived from abroad. Mrs. Brown being much taken with the gentleman--for he curried favour
by stroking only the way of the grain. So, with Lady Lucretia, Captain de Camp, of the Hon.
East India Company's Service, from Madras--awaiting his luggage,--is at home in the Albert,
having given himself a character that satisfied Mrs. Brown; for, he omitted the objectionable
parts (fearing they might distress that good lady), like the woman with a large family, who,
finding it impossible to get lodgings, sent her children among the graves; that, when asked,
she might say, with a sigh, "Alas! they are all in the churchyard."

That evening Mrs. Brown's rich mellow snore commenced later than usual--for she had been loud
and long in the praise of their new neighbours. Mr. Brown making entry against December 22nd,
Saturday.--That Albert was let:--whilst, the Waits were playing the "Phantom Dancers," and
Captain de Camp busy, there, screwing his empty trunk to the floor, that it might appear heavy,
and full of valuables; and whilst, between the villas in the rear, there might be seen a glimmering
candle, and by that light be found--one not unknown to Brown--a poor little musician, in a
little second-floor room, containing a little organ much too large for it, and a litter of
dirty soft papers,--who is not a little perplexed at a note, from Mrs. Brown, dispensing with
his services:--he, the poor little music-master, more amiable than handsome, less symmetrical
than serviceable;--who had, in less favoured times, contracted friendship, and to teach the
Misses Brown music at thirty shillings per quarter--who had gotten so familiar as to love--had
dared to offer that person Nature had deformed, with that mind Nature had adorned, to Miss
Jemima Brown. There was a time when his anecdotes had been prized, and his long, delicate,
white fingers kept playing to perpetual dancers; and that fine voice, Nature had bestowed in
lieu of symmetry, sang the merriest and most sentimental songs for love:--the retrospect is
too much for poor Spohf--so he seeks refuge in his organ, much to the annoyance of a little
tailor in the attic, who has no soul in him--save the sole he had for supper.

Sunday.--The perpetual bell of St. Stiff the Martyr is calling to service, as it is wont to
do at all times and hours--for mysterious purposes but little known:--it seems as if the bell
disliked its little wooden cottage, on the unfinished spire; or was inspired, or in a towering
passion to live in a tower, or saw no fun in waiting for funds; and so, continually pealed
an appeal to the public:--however, it was a puny, little, curious bell, with a tongue of its
own, now clacking for a charity sermon; and, curiously, Mr. Brown thinks a charity sermon always
edifies him with the headache, and is doubtful about going, as they make him a reluctant giver--for
mere vain show; but he, curiously, wonders where the De Camps go; and, curiously, Victoria
and Albert meet at the gate; and, curiously, the family pue, at St. Stiff's, seems capable
of accommodating them.

Mr. Spohf, the little organist, being perched up aloft, sees, through the curtain, the Christmas
holly and the Captain--taking care to mark that individual with mental chalk. The musician's
eyes are in the Brown pue; but the eyes that used to meet them are turned another way--all
favour is centred upon their spurious exotic, who grows thicker, twines tighter, and takes
deeper root, the more he is encouraged:--of the species, or genus, we cannot do better than
quote Mr. B.'s own words, written against December 23rd, Sunday--(whilst the Waits, as usual,
were serenading the semi-detached, in a full conviction of its being Monday, and the possibility
of "living and loving together," and "being happy yet").--"To church with my new tenant, who
is delightful company: Lady Lucre. says he is a 'refined duck,' a 'gentlemanly angel,' and
a 'manly poppet:' to which I made answer, that I thought so too; and that she was a 'seraphine
concert.' Sermon, by the Rev. Loyalla à Becket, 'in aid of funds for supplying the poor, during
this inclement but festive season, with food for the mind.' Captain de Camp did borrow a sovereign
of me, to put in the plate; and I was told by my fellow-churchwarden, Mr. Flyntflayer, that
he did put in a bad shilling, wrapt in paper, and did take out fifteen shillings in change:--this,
I said was untrue--as, of course, it was;--having lent him a sovereign myself, for the express
purpose. We are to have Captain de C.'s two noble sons here, during the holidays; one, I believe,
comes from Oxford, and the other from Sandboys Military College:--now is the time--Jemy. and
Angel. must be on the alert, for

  'There is a tide in the affairs of women,
  Which, taken at the flood, leads on to matrimony;
  Omitted, all the voyage of their life
  Is bound in shallows, and in spinsterhood.
  On such a full sea are we now afloat;
  And we must take the current when it serves,
  Or lose our ventures.'"

Monday, the 24th December's sun rises in a fog:--everybody has lost the day of the week, and
come upon what appears an infinity of Saturdays rolled into one--beginning the week with a
grand end,--for it is the advent of Christmas!

The Masters de Camp arrive as was expected.--Cadet Wellesley exhibiting his military accomplishments
by surveying the back field; all the holes and corners; riddling the sty and pigs with Mr.
Brown's blunderbuss; bivouacking in the pantry at Victoria's expence; and, when remonstrated
with, for mere sport knocking the plaster Albert off the garden wall into the lane. Mr. Latimer
de Camp introduces himself more civilly, as Miss Jemima is playing and singing (of course for
practice), by accompanying "How happy could I be with either," on the wooden partition with
his thumb, after the fashion of a tambarine.

This is the annual busy day.--Packets and parcels are being delivered unceasingly by uncommonly
civil butcher-boys, graceful grocers, and urbanic green-grocers, who are near enough to boxing-day
to know that silver on the tongue is necessary to charm silver from the pocket. The Captain
has sent to learn if any consignments are for him, to ask the loan of a pack of cards, and
Victoria's company to spend the evening at the Albert--which invitation is graciously accepted.

It is eve--Christmas-eve.--Mrs. Brown's candied mixture, the pudding, is simmering in the copper;
the turkey, chine, and hundred etceteras are on their way from Plumpsworth; while Captain de
Camp's baggage is at the very wildest verge of that gentleman's imagination, and its appearance
would have surprised him more than any one else, so speculative was it.

Mr. Brown is in the City, homeward bound by the omnibus, intending to realize "a Merry Christmas,
and a Happy New Year." It is so foggy that he finds he is going at an invisible pace, obliging
him to abandon the invisible vehicle in an invisible street, paying an invisible fare.

He ties a handkerchief round his foot to prevent slipping; and has something "short" to keep
out the cold; and a little brandy-punch to keep out the fog; and a little egg-flip to keep
him warm; and a link that he may see the way, for his vision is not very distinct;--his head
is delightfully buoyant, his optics inclined to multiply, and his legs very refractory, having
a great desire to dance or go sideways, but obstinately refusing, in their eccentricity, to
proceed in a straight line; for Mr. Brown is more merry than particular--taking Newgate Market
in his way home to Mizzlington from the 'Change. Having a great veneration for old customs,
he buys a boar's head there and boy to carry it; next, being taken with a crockery-shop-sign,
"The Little Bason" (which, by-the-bye, was a very large one), he purchases that also, thinking
it will do for a wassail-bowl; likewise some holly; and an old butcher's-block to serve as
the yule-log; not forgetting the last new Christmas book of sympathy and sentiment, "The Black
Beetle on the Hob," a faery tale of a register-stove, by the author of the "Old Hearth Broom
and the Kettle-Holder:"--With these articles Mr. Brown and his retinue reach home in safety--a
miracle, considering the toast and ale they have consumed,--the Holly being jolly, the Bason
groggy, the Log stupid, and the Boar pig-headed. They find Victoria deaf; for Mr. Brown has
made her little gothic door to shiver, and the bolts to chatter with the blows, yet none respond;
for the servants are very jovial over boiled ale in the crypt--little thinking or caring about
their master; who, after having rung all the bells singly, walked backwards, surveyed the windows,
tumbled over the block, and endangered the wassail-bowl, tries ringing all the bells at once
without avail; so enters by the back window, and performs a dexterous summerset down the stairs,
in company with some evergreens and a flower-stand, ending in a series of double knocks performed
upon the inside of the door with the back of his head, and a cuffing from Mr. Brown junior,
who happens to be coming in with the key, taking his respected governor for a burglar.

The Browns are next door:--Victoria is fraternizing with Albert, and both are exceedingly happy,
although the latter has won greatly at the game of speculation--having played his cards well;
so, Mr. Brown, after being packed in brown paper, steeped in vinegar, and well soda-watered,
joins the social party;--finding Captain de Camp busy concocting an extraordinary oriental
mixture (the name of which we quite forget) out of old bottles, from Victoria's cellar; and
telling a tremendous Eastern story of a tiger captured in a jungle, after a chase of ten hours--he
should have said minutes, in a penny magazine!

Mr. Brown and the Captain soon became familiar--in twenty minutes you would have thought them
friends of twenty years:--so,--before the last speculator had invested his last weekly sixpence
in a goose-club, and drawn the last adamantine old gander; or the last Christmas-pudding-sweep
swept away the chimerical puddings, that ought to have been very rich, and everybody thought
everybody else had won; before the last trader, who had sold out, dared to mount a notice,
intimating that he had joined an "Association to suppress Christmas-boxes,"--the Browns and
De Camps had attained that state denominated "thick"--an appellation that might, with propriety,
have been applied to Mr. Brown's brains;--for he had obliged Captain de Camp by discounting
a bill, due twelve days after date (Christmas), and had invited him to dine on the morrow,
to partake of the poultry, that always came up at Christmas, from Plumpsworth; and was taken
out in a visit made by the worthy donor, Great-uncle Clayclod, during the "May-meetings," when
he does a dozen shilling exhibitions in a day, and knocks up a fly-horse. So, rather late to
bed; Mr. Brown making up his Diary, as usual, on the dressing-table--a rule he always observed,
though, in some cases, it would have been better left until the morning; for, against December
24th, Tuesday, we find his feelings richly expressed in cramped caligraphy, upside down, bearing
evident marks of excitement;--having been penned--in a dream--with hair-dye, mistaken for ink;
pounced with carmine, and blotted with the small-tooth-comb in lieu of paper; it is, moreover,
curious for its allegorical allusions--likening Captain de Camp to a "brick," a "downey card,"
a "sharp file," and several other inanimate poetical images.

Of our mild friend, Spohf, he is sleeping soundly upon a light supper--obtained from "St. Stiff's
dairy"--some very thin milk, divested of all unctuous quality--that having gone to an epicure
Captain, at the Albert Villa. Poor Spohf's talent has not put many talents in his purse--these
real racing times run over genius!--they would tunnel Helicon, turn Hippocrene to flush a city's
drains,--make Pegasus serve letters by carrying a post-boy, and, in the end, sell the noble
beast for feline food:--everything now must be tangible. The little organist, who had spent
so many a Merry Christmas with the Browns--he has no pleasure to anticipate on the morrow,
except the performance of his new hymn, "The Star of Bethlehem," a composition of which the
little tailor in the attic thought small things, for it did not compose him to sleep.

The 25th of December arrives.--The festival of the year has come. Christmas-day commences with
the rising of the cook, who finished the evening, kneading and gaping over pies and puddings;
and wakes with the same operation, gaping and kneading her eyes, which do not fairly open until
she comes to look after her first care--the pudding:--the fire, having been made up over night,
is discovered a "beauty;" but, behold,--within the copper, the pudding has dissolved!--there
is nothing to be found but a cloth, which must have been boiling all night in a rich plum-soup,--the
string having come untied; or rather, never been tied at all, but popped in by Mrs. B. without
attending to that operation:--a piece of neglect, for which the cook gets "warning," and all
the servants rated--until the bells of St. Stiff's remind Mrs. B. that it is time to depart,
for the duties of a Christian, to eschew all the vanities of this wicked world, in a rich purple
Genoa velvet paletot and duck of a plum bonnet. That day Mr. Churchwarden Brown's pue would
not hold all, so Mrs. Strap, the pue-opener, had to manoeuvre by appropriating part of another
to their use, losing her Christmas-box for the offence against its owner, Mr. Din, the copper-smith.

Mr. Spohf's Christmas hymn is much liked, and is really so fine as to make that essence of
gentleness, himself, temporarily egotistical; he wonders what impression it has made upon Miss
Jemima, and the strange gentleman who is so attentive to her--could he do as much? But Mr.
Latimer de Camp is heedless of other good things flying about him; for, upon the walk home
after service, among the savoury Christmas dinners that are hurrying in every direction, he
is so abstracted as to find a sucking-pig in his stomach, and not a little gravy spilt upon
his trowsers, compelling him to change them, upon his arrival at home, for a neat pair of young
Brown's.

Mr. Spohf, having played all out of St. Stiff the Martyr, walks home moodily:--instead of finding
his dinner as usual, the chop and potato, he learns that his landlord, Mr. Strap, the greengrocer,
has stopped the supplies. It is quarter-day!--Strap thinks of the five weeks' arrears, and
Mr. Spohf's inability to pay for his lodgings; so, Mr. and Mrs. Strap have surprised him, by
preparing a huge leg of mutton and pudding; for they know he does not, as of old, go to the
"Willer." After this humble repast, which was relished as much as any could be, and was far
less likely to leave unpleasant sensations than if it had been more costly, they draw round
the fire; and master Ichabod Strap, one of the choristers of St. Stiff the Martyr, is playing
with a shilling, polishing the coin upon his sleeve--it is the identical one said to have been
put in the plate by Captain de Camp, and given by Mr. Flyntflayer (the gentleman who held the
gothic platter) to Mrs. Strap, the pue-opener, advising her at the same time to nail it to
the counter--a counterfeit to deter "smashers." But, somehow, the coin seemed doomed to remain
unholy, for no orifice or artifice could have rendered it a lucky one; it was shown to Mr.
Spohf, who thought it bad, and that it might have gotten into the plate by mistake; Mrs. Strap
knew it bad--an intentional perpetration,--and, like the giver, not worth a dump; Mr. Strap
not only thought it bad, but proved it so; for, after having spun, sounded, and eaten a portion
of it, he cast the coin into the glowing fire, where the silver quickly changed, dropping,
like quick-silver, among the ashes, to be picked out by Ichabod, very unlike a sterling coin.

Old Strap, who had taken "the pledge," but since introduced an exceptional clause in favour
of feasts and festivals, gets out the black bottle for fraternity's sake. They take a pipe
a-piece, and so softened is the little organist with their genuine unsophisticated kindness,
that he sees all his cares fly, and nothing but joys in the wreathed curls of smoke betaking
themselves up the chimney:--he sees Messrs. Blow and Grumble, the eminent organ-builders, making
a fortune by his "new movement;" having purchased and patented it: he has found a publisher
for his church music, and sold his old opera. Captain de Camp has vanished in smoke--he has
exploded of spontaneous combustion,--they find him all deceit, leaving a glass eye and a cork
leg. Mr. Latimer gets the Colonial Bishopric of Bushantee, in New Zealand, and cuts Miss Jemima.
Mr. Wellesley having gone to India for glory, returns with it,--a hook, and a patch over his
eye. Miss Angelina vows to die a virgin. Mr. Brown says to Mr. Spohf, "my son!"--Mr. Spohf
says to Mr. Brown, "my father!" Mr. Strap is standing in triumph upon a pyramid of "carpets
to beat," viewing a lesser one of "boots to brush;" having been entrusted with more "messages"
than mortal ever could "deliver;" whilst innumerable vans, bearing the name of Strap, traverse
innumerable roads in "Town and Country." Mrs. Strap, dressed in a plain plum silk, turns a
mahogany mangle, and gets up nothing but "fine things." Ichabod has cut the choir, and made
his début in an opera as Herr Strapii, a perfect triumph.

But here we will leave Mr. Spohf's reverie--for Victoria and reality; where the company is
arriving to the annual dinner, and sitting about the drawing-room, looking as happy as patients
at a dentist's; or festive, as disappointed toadeaters at the funeral of an opulent relative,
who had left all his property to found an asylum for decayed postboys--after leading everybody
to expect the lion's share of it:--the guests, for want of more exciting topics, admiring the
gimcracks they admired a year ago; thinking the portrait of Mr. Brown--"done," twenty years
since, at a portrait club,--a splendid likeness, and that the original grows younger (query,
richer?); stating truths and untruths about the weather; inquiring energetically after each
other's health--not caring for the answers; with other homely pleasantries, too numerous to
mention; until some of the juveniles--the only ones who really seem at home--espy from the
window a loaded parcel-cart; this they observe as funny on a Sunday (little thinking, at that
moment, it was Tuesday). Here Mr. Brown descends, to hold an altercation with the guard of
that cart, who makes light of a huge hamper of game; whilst the guests at the windows above,
speculate upon having to eat an uncooked turkey, or fancy their ravenous appetites waiting
while it is cooked--the youngsters calculating upon a dinner all pudding. Mr. Brown returns,
and tenders his arm to Lady Lucretia de Camp--in the excitement, leading her down the side
where the stairs taper to nothing,--causing that lady to lose both equilibrium and temper.

In the hall they are introduced to the viands, all thought to partake of;--which have arrived
too late, and are now displayed in their primitive state--a picture of still life; whilst the
guests--a picture of disappointment--have to put up with odds and ends, concocted to meet the
emergency, ending with a series of plum-dumplings, in place of the legitimate large pudding.
However, the indigent relatives, who prefer the cold corners, and take "any part," declare
themselves well satisfied:--all partaking of everything, and brandy afterwards, as if the viands
were rich. Master Brown does justice to everything, of course--that sweet child is now pulling
the merry thought with his maiden aunt; he is victor, and, as no one wishes to know his thoughts,
seems determined to tell them,--wishing "Jemy. and Mr. Latimer would look sharp, and knock
up the match Mamma spoke of; as then he should be breeched, have pockets, and money:" here
the little dear turned to the Captain, saying, "You'll give me a crown, won't you?"--a question
at which the maiden aunt blushed intensely, as did Mrs. Brown, who attempted to hide her emotion
by saying, "What strange things children do think of!"--at the same time helping a gentleman
who had had enough--the bashful gentleman, who sat at the junction of the tables, and appeared
so incommoded by the table-land of one being higher than the table-land of the other--causing
his plate to oscillate in a very remarkable manner, and discharge its contents in his lap,--the
conjoined legs compelling him either to sit at a fearful distance, and spill the gravy, or
to split his kerseymeres, by extending them too much for their frail make:--however, he has
at last succeeded in thrusting one knee between them, and the shorter leg of the two off Bunyan's
"Pilgrim's Progress"--used to stilt it;--letting the unfortunate gentleman's pudding down,
and his plate travel, until at last it stops, performing a gyration, all to itself, under the
sideboard.

During this clatter, the ladies rise and depart, leaving the gentlemen to drown all disappointments
in the wine. Mr. Brown, "feeling called upon," rises, apologizing for certain misfortunes,
herein described--at the same time trusting that such events might never happen again; and,
in the end, eulogizing Mrs. B., who is painted in glowing colours, by a painter who said he
should not have painted it; or, as any one else might have observed, introduced two virtuously
amiable daughters, so prominently in the foreground. Mr. Wellesley drags in the yule-log, much
to the detriment of the Brussels, and the annoyance of the guests; for, upon placing it in
the grate, it causes everything to be covered with black tadpoles, nearly extinguishing the
fire--until it ignites, roasting the company, and making the pot a white-heat.

The Captain has repeated last evening's brew, upon a larger scale, in the "little bason," or
wassail-bowl. Master Wellesley has kissed Angelina under the misletoe, suspended from the chandelier,
and placed in the centre of the amphitheatre, for that purpose. Mr. Latimer has "taken the
opportunity," as Jemima turned up a refractory burner; and everybody kissed everybody else
they liked, or could catch there. The entertaining Captain has narrated an effective anecdote
of an enraged elephant, and a precious big boar speared in a savage jungle--to which he might
have added, with no more personal risk than Mrs. Brown may experience when hunting for a boa
in her wardrobe. And, Mr. Mouldy, the city merchant, who dealt in rags, sang about a little
excitable pig, and "Mac Mullin's Lament;" whilst Mr. Snobbins--who it was hoped would sit and
be silent,--has broken the spell, dared to remember old times, sleeping under a counter, and
the pugnacity of Brown, when they were in a mess at the blues--making Captain de Camp think
more of a military repast than Christ's Hospital;--until the "blues" were dispelled by Mr.
Snobbins singing "The gallant 'prentice boy:"--not that the company would have lacked a military
man, had the Captain been absent, for there was Cowed, the meek Bermondsey tanner, by livery
a hatter, and withal a soldier--a member of the Hon. Artillery Company,--he who sang about
God blessing the old cow's hide, and a

  "Wish that his soul in heaven might dwell,
  Who first invented the leather bottel;"

--and, Mrs. Brown's brother, Mr. Barthe Brick, familiarly known as the "Brick," who had just
commenced a song, a parody upon Fra Diavolo,--a something very, very low, supposed to be sung
by a dealer in hearth-stones; who, at the end of each verse, vociferates "who'll buy," heightening
the illusion by trundling a chair, on its back, round the family circle, to represent a barrow.

No one knows where the barbarous atrocities would have ended, and all before the refined strangers,
too, had not the olive-branches--disposed for rest by their several mammas in the room above--all
awoke at once, tumbled out of bed, and joined in a combined cry; this breaks the family circle--mothers
fly to pack their turbulent innocents for travel; the candles flare, and carriages clatter,
grinding the flints in the lane. John, the footman, finds he has a dozen half-crowns, and Mary
seven. The last fly has departed with the little Bricks; lights appear and disappear in the
bed-chambers; and the Christmas-day--that comes but once a year--has vanished, like a dream!

Mr. Brown has jotted the events, in his Diary, in a hand scarcely legible. It must have been
penned in a somnambulistic fit--thinking he was at a meeting of St. Stiff's vestry, in the
union board-room,--for, after a list of member's present (the names of his guests), Captain
de Camp in the chair, follow these minutes of proceedings:--Firstly, that one Spohf be dismissed
as organist of St. Stiff's, confined in the idiot-ward, fed on water gruel, and handed over
to his own parish (Vienna); proposed by Latimer, and seconded by Wellesley de Camp. The second
proposition appears to be to the effect that a vagrant named Brick, dealer in hearth-stones,
be confined in the refractory-ward, and fed upon bread and water.

The morning after the festivities London oversleeps itself:--and, awaking, finds it boxing-day.
Variegated dips are being disseminated among delighted, dirty, juveniles; whilst the boys seem
chagrined at notices for "the extinction of abuses," or "suppression of Christmas-boxes;" which
seems only to make them the more pertinacious at Victoria Villa: for an irregular dustman has
chalked the post, and the Postman vowed to mark Mr. Brown; the Turncock is turned off; the
Waits have to "wait a little longer;" and the Beadle, who declared Mr. Brown no generous churchwarden,
has, withal, found enough alcohol to make him stupid before night--causing that dignitary to
cry a lost boy instead of a girl, and to see twice as many posts round St. Stiff's as usual;
taking half of them to be boys about to vault over the other half, he rushes on to disperse
them, soundly chastising the granite.

All the little boys secure their mites before mid-day; taking their posts at the gallery-door
of a popular theatre, five hours before opening, to practise that rare virtue, patience, at
the shrine of "Hot Codlings," and "George Barnwell."

Master Ichabod Strap, in his richest yellow breeches, and burnished badge of St. Stiff the
Martyr, is perambulating the parish with his gay phylactery, or Christmas-piece--"The History
of Joseph," painted, like the coat, in many colours:--he shows it to Mrs. Brown, who approves
the performance; "stroking the head of modest and ingenuous worth that blushed at its own praise;"
measuring the boy at a glance, and proffering him promotion in the shape of an uniform, of
buttons, just vacated by a youth--called by his peers "Nobby Jones," but by his mistress "Alphonso;"--who,
having grown to the great risk of buttons and stitches, was dispossessed of his regimentals,
being sent home one dark night in his bed-gown. "Ichabod" promises to resign that title and
all connection with the dirty boys, to reign as Alphonso the second page; being missed by Mr.
Spohf, for whom he used to blow the organ, in the little second floor--a bereavement Mrs. B.
enjoyed, saying, she wondered how the unworthy little animal would raise the wind now.

There is an universal adage about risking sprats to capture herrings--a sport not unknown to
our cosmopolite Captain, for he had fished in troubled waters, and hunted for a dinner many
a time;--he knew the traps and snares to secure game, the days and seasons; so, on Boxing-day,
he baits the servants with crowns; Tommy with a sovereign; Angelina with "The Keepsake;" Jemima
with a modern-ancient missal, or portion of Scripture made dear and difficult to read; presenting
Mrs. B. with the last new art manufacture--"The Knowing Blade, a brazen-faced sharper, to remove
blunt;" and procuring for Mr. B. the skin of the identical Bengal tiger he killed, as may be
seen from a legend running up the back bone--though an inscription on the tip of the tail states
it to be sold by Fitch of Regent Street. The bait secures its amount of flat-fish; for that
evening, Captain de Camp was more than usually lucky--he caught enough at ecarté to clear himself;--a
freak of fortune that caused no asperity in the noble breast of Brown; for here are his own
thoughts in his own words:--"December 26th, Wednesday (Boxing-day).--My dear friend, De Camp,
has this day given us all tokens of the warmest attachment--sadly wanting to do something for
me--'Colonial,' 'War,' or 'Admiralty.' Not requiring anything just now, this will form an admirable
reserve; I must, in the meantime, profit by his refined society, as I hope and trust the girls
will by his sons'. If there be any drawback to the delight I feel, it is the non-arrival of
his luggage; for I am personally inconvenienced by his wearing my best coat. I may be over-scrupulous
in wishing he would return the books he devours with such avidity:--Mrs. B. says, she thinks,
the paragon of knowledge swallows them; for they are not to be found."

Next morning Ichabod enters the Brown suit and service, having spent Boxing-night and the proceeds
of the Christmas-piece at the play, where he saw "Jane Shore" and "Harlequin House that Jack
built;" the plot and tricks of which he recounted to Master Tommy, as he took that young gentleman
for a walk, inoculating him with a great desire to go and behold it. So, after having coaxed
his mother, teased his father, and cried his lovely blue eyes into a good imitation of red
veined marble, the youth triumphed; for on Thursday evening, they all went to the play in the
fusty fly from Drone's yard, driven by old Drone, in his pepper-and-salt suit of pseudo livery,
that looked as if he always brushed it with the currycomb; and so tindery about the breast,
from the number of marriage-favours annually pinned there, that it is a wonder it holds together.
Alphonso rode upon the box, giving the vehicle a certain amount of smartness. On their arrival
under the dirt-embrowned portico of the theatre, they are cordially recognised by the De Camps;
who, thinking it a pity the box should not be filled, have just dropped down to see "London
Assurance"--intending to quit before the pantomime, but forgetting to do so after all.

During the play, Master Tommy disposes of a vast quantity of oranges and sponge-cakes--vanishing
between each act to obtain a fresh supply;--making butterflies of the bill, and causing the
double-barrelled lorgnette (which was hired for the occasion from an adjacent oyster-shop)
to slip off the cushion, falling upon a bald gentleman in the pit:--the excited little pest
remarking everything, and fairly shouting at the discovery of Alphonso below, until chid by
his mother. Oh! that we could participate in thy youthful enthusiasm, or feel pleased at that
hotch-potch--the overture; or, a thrill when the muffin-bell tinkles, causing the lovely drop-scene--that
combined the grandeur of the pretty Parthenon with the sublimity of Virginia Water--to vanish
into its own intensely blue sky; disclosing the "Harlequin House that Jack built," and Mr.
John Bull's huge paste-board thick head, snoring like thunder, in a "property" summer-house--an
elephantine blue-bottle on his proboscis, and a sleeping bull-dog, the size of an Alderney
steer, at his feet;--here Master Brown, with a grin, calls the house Victoria Villa, and the
paste-board mask his papa. Now enters the rat, to eat the good things that lay in the house
that John built, represented by a stealthy seedy gentleman, who, after reading a board intimating
that apartments were to let, crept slyly past the sleepy Bull, to mount the house-steps; and
there deliver himself of the following doggerel, in a mellifluous voice:--

  "I search for lodgings--here's the very thing,--
  Though I've not got a rap, I think I'll ring;
  For all I want is to be taken in,--
  As I would others take--sure 'tis no sin
  To do to others--only tit for tat--
  So here goes--Rat--tat, tat--a tat!!!!!"

The orchestra, loud in wishing to know "who's dat knocking at de door?" and Master Tom, deep
in the bill, with Mr. Rat, who is there described as a "scamp"--an unknown term to Tom, for
he asked its meaning; observing that Uncle Brick said Captain de Camp was a scamp. This question
remained unanswered; for no one heard it except the Captain, who felt a great itching to pull
a young monkey's ears, but did not. The cat (a sort of Puss in Boots, with a short stick and
strip of paper) entering, to catch the rat, is worried by the dog; who is tossed by a cow with
a very crumpled horn; who was milked by a maid said to be very forlorn; who is kissed by a
sweet-looking beggar, all tattered and torn--the loving pair being likened to Jemima and Latimer,
by Master Tom, causing his sister's face to redden as a furnace, that heightened the more it
was fanned; and when the priest, all shaven and shorn (whom Tom called the Rev. Loyalla à Becket),
commenced marrying the couple, then Miss Jemima entertained serious notions of fainting; and,
probably, would, had not the solemnization of matrimony been violated by the priest, who shed
his sack-cloth surplice, vaulting over the rails of the altar, between the astonished couple,
leaving that sanctuary to change into a match maker's--appearing, himself, a perfect clown,
stating that sublime, veritable, truth--"here we are again!"--working his geometric, chromatic,
physiognomy into endless contortions, extending his arms like the sails of contrary windmills,
twiddling his legs like a fly,--and when called upon, by unearthly voices, for "Tippytiwitchet,"
appears so scared that he tumbles through the big drum, to oblige them with the song from the
slips; instantly afterwards presenting himself upon the stage, dilating his spotted inexpressibles,
until they put him in mind of a friend, Pantaloon, that, by a curious coincidence, resides
at a tailor's, in the back-ground, having just completed a patch-work skin, for Harlequin;
who, the instant he is fitted, flies through the panel of a door, inscribed "cutting-out room,"
into the next house, a florist's, there to obtain his favourite flower, the Columbine, with
whom he has a long dance in the centre of a very solitary street; whilst Clown and Pantaloon
arrange a partnership concern, which they carry on in the middle of the road, in front of the
shop, until Clown renders himself more plague than profit, by warming his partner's lumbar
region with a very red-hot goose, basting him with the sleeve-board, and sticking him to the
road with wax--Clown dissolving partnership by walking off, in a new wrap-rascal, with the
cash-box, that no one may rob them. The best things must come to an end!--and so does the Pantomime--with
a gorgeous display of red fire, tinsel and gold, real water and the electric light--all chopped
off in the middle by the descending curtain. The box-fronts have been enveloped in their night-gowns;
the Columbine is clattering, in pattens, to her lodgings; the Harlequin has been bolted out,
unable to vault through the fan-light; and the Clown is running in his painted face, having
forgotten to wash it, for at home he left a dear wife seriously ill, to come and be funny in
sadness.

Drone's fly is homeward bound, heavily laden. The young men of the party have dived into "The
Welsh Rarebit Warren," there to spend the early hours of the morning, listening to sentimental
songs chanted amid fumes of tobacco and spirits, to hear sorry wit, and make vapid remarks.
The great feature of the evening being a melodramatic dirge, supposed to be sung by a condemned
felon--a triumphant lamentation and delineation of brutal character,--so eloquent and thrilling,
in its monosyllabic groans of anguish, that it is a wonder the kidneys, consumed in such numbers,
are ever digested. But, alas!--such is life--those most swayed by animal propensities see the
least warning therein:--as, the thief combines business and pleasure at the gallow's foot;
so, with the frequenters of the "Warren"--they imbue their sentiment and supper,--only digesting
the latter. Wellesley has devoured several "rabbits," and Latimer disposed of numberless kidneys,
whilst young Brown has had to wait the usual forty minutes for a steak; and, in the interim,
had five "stouts," four "goes," and several cigars, i.e., with assistance from the De Camps;
who have made free, ay, to order goblets of champagne, and, in the end, not having change to
repair the "damage" (a mean, but true, term, as often applied), they get young Brown to pay
the complicated sum added up by the waiter, upon a mahogany ditto, in lieu of a slate, with
stale stout spilled in the corner, receipted with a wipe of the towel:--and so, home in the
"safety" cab, with large wheels and a spanking grey,--lettered along the side "Nil desperandum,"
thinking "handsome is as Hansom does;" tumbling into bed just before the peep o' day, and five
hours after Mr. Brown had made up his Diary--writing against December the 27th., Thursday,
that he had taken Tom and the girls to a pantomime; been agreeably surprised to find the De
Camps there, especially the sons, who did sit in front, with Jemy. and Angel., looking made
as much for one another as he could desire:--Tom behaving very sadly; and, were it not for
his mother, the boy should spend the vacations at a Yorkshire school;--twice every year--in
the Dog-days and December--is the house turned topsy-turvy,--it may be sport to you, Master
Tom, but 'tis death to us.

Thus older grew the year, and fuller got the Diary--Mr. Brown graphically recounting the doings
and disasters of "December 28th, Friday.--Unpropitious, fatal, Friday! I never knew it lucky
save once, and then it was--I let the Albert. 'Christmas comes but once a year,' with a train
of nasty bills, not to be bilk'd; and sorry consolation is it thinking you 'paid at the time,'
when the receipt is not to be found. Miss-Fortune, that never came single, now visits with
a large family of little pests--out of season and uninvited!--Here is Needy, the pianist, who,
one would think, had married her; for he has children enough to fill a charity school. Needy,
of No. 9, Brown Terrace, has absconded without paying the rent--sending the key, and £12. 10s.,
instead of £14., with a shabby excuse about hoping to be able to make up the difference some
day:--this is the return for showing compassion to a poor devil!--I ought to have known, when
I took the cottage-piano for last quarter, though Spohf did say it was a six-and-three-quarters,
worth three times the money!--I am a good-natured fool, and ought, in justice to my family,
to be a little more selfish--these mean professionals estimating their rubbish far beyond all
reason!--My spirits are damped--and so are we all, for the water-pipes that that rascal Plummer
fixed, at the low contract, have burst with this evening's thaw, and were discovered just as
the water was coming in; having played, I know not how long, a fountain in the bathroom, tumbling
down the stairs like the falls of the Niagara, obliging us to insert tobacco-pipes all over
the drawing-room ceiling, to drain the inundation:--it has spoilt the watered paper, stained
the aquatint of the Aqueduct, and 'Wellington at Waterloo,' done for the water-gilding, and
saturated the 'Momentous Question;' the 'Heart's Misgivings' is a sop; and the water-colour
of the 'Flood' is washed away. Alphonso is sitting up in goloshes to empty the pots, and I
doubt much if I shall sleep over the dropping-well."

How Mr. Brown slept we do not know, but can imagine, for here is the Diurnal Record, made up
in bed:--"December 29th, Saturday.--Dreamed Victoria Villa turned into a hydropathic establishment--that
I was being frozen, thawed, and suffocated; did wake, this day, with an enlarged cheek--the
influenza compelling me to keep my bed, bathe my chilblains, and anoint my nose; I take slops
internally, and wear a heart upon the outside of my chest. The kind, considerate Captain called,
smoking a cigar, that made me cough, and think his visit a visitation."

The first Sunday after Christmas is here:--Brown is in bed; the little bell of St. Stiff's
has stopped, and many another vibratory sound is dying in the distance; flakes of snow are
moodily descending--causing the fire to spit angrily, and the face of heaven to look black--all
light appearing to come from the earth; sound is deadened, the carpet is darker than usual,
and the ceiling lighter; Mr. Brown's eyes are up there, for he is lying, tracing amid the cracks
and stains, vast palaces like pictures by Martin, or aërial phantasmagorias by Turner. Brown
is lying, nursing his influenza according to the approved adage; though some read the maxim
thus, "Stuff a cold, and (have to) starve a fever." Let us hope Brown has the right version.
Captain de Camp has come to read to the invalid, and drink his brandy and water--he has begun
"Blair's Sermons," or rather the life of Blair, prefixed to the volume, in a full conviction
of its religious tendency; whilst in the room above is John, the footman, standing upon his
bed, breathing on the single pane of glass, inserted in the sloped roof, that he may melt the
snow, and see to read a mysterious document--a tumbled note,--not on the Bank of England, but
an epistolatory one, found in the trowsers pockets of Mr. Latimer de Camp--the same cast off
by that gentleman on Christmas-day, when he stumbled over the strange dinner, in coming from
church, and so much deteriorated their appearance as to give them to John;--who now, thinking
he has found evidence,--thinks he always thought he thought the De Camps scamps. John is perplexed
at the purport of the letter; and feeling a cold thrill run through him, he turns into bed,
there to reflect for ten minutes upon the downy pillow, pondering with intensely closed eyes,
considering before he puts himself in the power of an enemy--for John had been a soldier once,
and would have been one now, had not his poor old mother starved and mangled together enough
to buy him off; he bore the stamp of military drill, took in "Tales of the Wars," in penny
numbers, and had a cheap print of the "Battle of Waterloo" pasted to the sloping roof, above
the bed, in which we left him pondering. Having considered enough, he takes once more to the
document, folding and unfolding it, examining the thimble impress on the seal, tasting a corner
of it in his excitement, and reading it with intense energy for the last time: it is directed
to "Latimer de Camp, Esq., M.A., Albert Villa, Mizzlington;" and was posted in the New Cut:--

No. 2, Grubb's Rents.

"DEAR EDWARD,

"I am anxiously awaiting the 'Conspiracy,'--do not keep me in suspense!--do DO it, for my benefit.--I
sadly want money. Is the plot too horrible for you!--you know how to do for a 'Victoria' company!--make
a domestic tragedy of it--shoot the father and son!--you know the rest. Pray communicate, or
I shall think you in trouble.

"Your forlorn--EMMA."

For this last perusal John appears none the wiser, being unable to divine more than at first--murder
and treachery seem the plot. John thinks the Captain just like Gory, the murderer, in the Chamber
of Horrors, at the wax-works; and that Victoria Villa resembles "Greenacre Hall," depicted
in the pictorial newspaper. John is sadly perplexed as to where he shall seek counsel--of course,
thinking of every one foreign to the case; until, happily, he remembers one that ought to have
been thought of first--to Mr. Spohf will he send the mysterious note, ask his advice, and act
upon it:--but, unfortunately, John sealed the envelope with Mr. Brown's crest--a circumstance
that made Mr. Spohf think the letter from his old friend Brown; so he answers it as such--feeling
much pleasure that his advice should be sought;--saying, the enclosed note appeared to be about
some drama some one had to write--a document of no serious import. As to strangers, he should
advise caution; for it is the aim of a rogue to look as much like a trusty friend as possible;
quiet watchfulness is well, for that can harm no one. This answer from Mr. Spohf was promptly
delivered by the little tailor's daughter to the expectant John; who naturally thought it for
him. Curiously, John and his master both owned the name of Brown--John Brown:--now John, the
servant, was conscientious; and would not, on any account, have opened his master's letters--he
drew the line of propriety much further off,--it stopped at reading in at the ends. John felt
sure this letter was for him--not that he liked being called an esquire; yet, for all that,
he felt safe, for there, extra-large and important, was the word "Private"--a military distinction
that made him doubly certain; so, he bore away the letter, in great trepidation, to his quarters
in the tiles, there to be much relieved by its contents; vowing, as he lay on his bed, to be
watchful as the Duke on the look-out in his "Battle of Waterloo," and dumb as a dead drummer
in the foreground.

Happily Victoria and Albert were ignorant of these despatches, or John might have lost his
commission and uniform. Confidence is unshaken;--for, on December 30th, Sunday, Captain de
Camp is reported a "glorious oriental brick,"--he having kindly prescribed all sorts of good
things for his invalid friend, without the slightest regard to expense; and, moreover, broken
Brown's quinsy by administering an extraordinary anecdote, or "crammer," that scarcely any
one could swallow; but Brown did, and laughed so much afterwards, that the quinsy was gone;
for the Captain had anecdotes suited to all times and seasons--he only wanted listeners, and
off he went like an alarum. Sunday put him in mind of that day twelvemonths; and that day put
him in mind of Richard Spark, of the Native Infantry; Rich. Spark put him in mind of how they
got that Hindoo millionaire, Makemuchjee Catch-muchjee, into a Christian church, by walking
him between them, in a state of ether; how he (the Hindoo) was mollified by the sermon, and
went home--melted the Idol, Boobobum, that had golden hair, diamond eyes, pearly teeth, coral
lips, a silver tongue, and a copper bottom; how he handed her over in lumps to the church;
and yet, with all these poetical attributes she was the ugliest and most precious god he ever
set eyes on. She was the subscription of the district--the poor put the copper and the rich
the gold;--the Captain telling of how he made a posthumous portrait of her, which is quite
correct; only he forgot five bosoms in the bust, and left out a right arm:--it is engraved
in No. 365 of the "Missionary Record."

This paragraph opens with the last day of the old year.--The cold that stiffened Mr. Brown's
neck, and choked up his throat has thawed; his nose has resumed its accustomed hue; his temper
is unusually good in the prospect of vacating his room, and beginning the year with redoubled
energy. Mrs. Brown is preparing for something important; and, from the delicate scented note
you observed inserted in our chimney-glass-frame--the one with the Brown crest, a rampant locomotive
proper, and motto of "Go-a-head" (which, between ourselves, was found by a very subtle seal-engraver
in Change Alley);--from that, and the remarks of Master Brown, when we called this morning,
you may pretty well judge:--he said Jemy. wrote such a lot o' letters the other day; that they
have a pillow-case filled with oranges--quite a sack-full; and, moreover, his Ma'. just was
clever--for she said she could kill two parties with one chandelier, and make rout-seats hold
double! The fact is, Mrs. Brown intends to give a ball on the 4th of January, and a juvenile
party on the 5th--the former to be extra-superb, on account of the De Camps; who, of course,
are expected--having received an invitation by post. We wonder the Browns did not write to
invite themselves; for John passed the Albert door in taking the Captain's letter to the post,
and the preparations were as much under the guidance of those worthies as of the Browns themselves.
The boudoir is in a litter--all cuttings of satin and book muslin,--in the midst of which may
be seen pretty Miss Bib and little Madame Tucker, very busily employed--Lady Lucretia de Camp
proffering advice; and superintending the construction of an amber satin, covered with black
lace--a dress that Mrs. Brown thought to wear, but felt obliged to resign, so much did her
kind patron, Lady de Camp, dote upon it.

Above this last-named apartment is Brown's bedchamber, where he and the Captain are spending
a quiet evening, reviewing their prospects and relating their experiences:--the Captain stating
his intention of living retired upon his property, for all his friend Major Cant's trying to
persuade him to take an adjoining house in Belgravia. No! he was content to stay where he was--Albert
was snug; but if Mr. Brown thought of removing to Mayfair or Tyburnia, why then, a house next
such a capital individual might be a desideratum:--he said it--an Army Captain that should
not say it, but did not care,--stock-brokers and merchants were men of bottom; though probably
his friend Major Cant would say that bottom meant the baser stuff they were composed of--the
joke was better than the simile, and neither bad. After this opinion the Captain paused to
think, drink, and--with a blow that made the table quiver,--demand, to know what a man without
money was worth?--answering the question, in the same breath, with an emphatic nothing!--a
man of wealth was a man of worth! We know not if Mr. Brown thought this logic or no;--but he,
Captain de Camp, knew it, and intended to let his friends know it also; for next season he
would give a grand entertainment, get Spread and Co. to throw a marquee over the lawn, and
see if Major Cant would come--the Captain rather thought he would; or the Hon. Sam. Dummy--the
coxcomb, who, when asked to dine with Alderman Fig, in Bloomsbury Square, said his horses never
crossed Tottenham Court Road--Stinkomalee and the Brutish Museum savouring too much of the
"people" for the exquisite;--but the Captain winked, and said he knew how the Dummy would get
out of the fix--he would come along the New Road, as the Captain said he once knew him do,
when in search of an asthmatic poodle that had been stolen, and was at a dog-fancier's on Pentonville
Hill. Then should we have the lane filled with carriages, like at a Chiswick fête; I would
introduce my friend to the world, and be at rest;--for we are a couple of old boys, willing
to make sacrifices for our dear children.

Having delivered himself of these lofty sentiments as the bells were ringing out the old year--stopping
to strike its knell;--the Captain also stopped, to seize a glass and the hand of Brown--wishing
him the merriest, maniest, and happiest of New Years;--drinking eternal unity to the B.'s and
De C.'s--at the same time shedding a very visible tear, that dropped into his brandy and water,
like the pearl of Cleopatra, to be sacrificed to self--to a very affectionate man--so very
affectionate, that he loved himself, we do believe.

The spirits and sentiment so overcame Brown, that he buried his emotion in the bolster--a state
of mind the Captain did not fail to observe, and take advantage of; for--"he supposed Mr. Brown
could not spare £8, until Saturday?"--An affirmation that gentleman repudiated; for he granted
the small favour with pleasure--presenting the leaf of an oblong book, and his autograph, to
the Captain; who retired with the same--by an ingenious plan to render it of ten times the
value--adding to the eight a letter y, making it eighty, and the figure to keep company with
a naught--£80.

The events of this day are chronicled in the Diary of Brown--all couleur de rose,--the literal
purport of which it would be tedious to repeat; suffice it to say, the aphorisms on the demise
of the year ran foul of the "occasional memoranda," and were brought to a dead stop by the
"general accounts;" not that his ideas stopped on paper, for he continued them in bed. Brown
dreamed "his ship had come home;"--that he dwelt in a Belgravian palace; that he was an M.P.;--that
he was known as Brown, the "King of 'Change"--that he ruled with an iron ruler--that he was
enthroned upon a cash-box--that he wore a crown of dollars--that the four quarters of the globe
adored him--that Great and Little Britain worshipped him;--that the world told his wife, Brown
was a great man:--but, alas!--trains of wild ideas, like locomotives that go too fast, may
run off the rail when least expected, or explode as a train of gunpowder, without notice; so,
in Mr. Brown's imagination, he feels as if shot into the air, after being dreadfully scalded--Mrs.
Brown, kind soul, having applied a bottle of boiling water (forgetting the flannel) to the
feet of her spouse, before retiring, herself--that good lady little thinking it was so warm.
But there were other things Mrs. Brown did not know of; for she little thought the servants
were round the kitchen-fire, quiet as mice, all deep in the "Mysteries of the Courts and Sewers
of London"--a work affording the greatest amount of horrible excitement at the lowest rate,--a
book in which Alphonso has discovered a Captain de Camp; and cook, a Lady Thingamy, whom, she
says, "ain't no better than she should be"--a rather vague but significant truth, that might
as appropriately have been applied to a saint as to a sinner, though cook intended it for the
latter:--as to the Capting, the only think she had agin him was a wish he wouldn't spile everythink
with soy and cayenne, for it got into the wash, and made the pigs sneeze. Mary, too, must have
her opinion--saying Wellesley wasn't no gentleman, for he wiped his dirty boots on the towels,
and would pull the plug out of the wash-bason when there was nothing under to catch the soapy
water. During this scandal, John, whom all thought knew something, only said the Captain was
an umbug--as he noiselessly disappeared, bearing his shoes in his hand; for it was considerably
past midnight.

Young Brown and his two friends are at the "Planets" harmonic meeting, stating their intention
not to return till morning--an useless proclamation, for it is impossible to do otherwise,
now--they having been at the Casino, "getting their feet in," for the hop on Friday, as young
Brown termed the practice of dancing.

Mr. Spohf is in bed, but cannot sleep--so great is his pleasure,--Messrs. Blow and Grumble
having patented "Spohf's new organ-movement."

"A Happy New Year--and may you live to see many of them!"--The New Year is born with every
characteristic of its defunct sire--seeming no better behaved (as some people would have little
boys after a birthday or a breeching):--the old year died with a drizzle; and the young one,
that everybody hoped promising, is born with the same attributes.

Mr. Brown is at his post again--the parish lamp-post at the corner of the lane--awaiting the
"Favourite" omnibus, that is to bear him to the City. He is trying to arrange the thousand
and one little commissions he has to execute for Mrs. Brown. How many he remembered or forgot
we know not; but that day he purchased a fair blank Diary--the stationer who sold it not only
wishing him "a Happy New Year," but that he might "live to fill fifty such:"--a wish that made
Mr. Brown very contemplative--thinking 18,250 entries no joke;--of many bright, bright days
of pleasure; two score and ten of birthdays; half a century of weddings, anniversaries, and
deaths--let us hope of peaceful, happy deaths,--for clouds will sometimes gather, darkening
the brightest sky; but, thank Heaven, there is plenty of sunshine for those who seek it--ay,
to find it, too, though it be midnight and beside a kitchen-fire. Of this new Diary the first
page is penned with more care than usual--as all first pages are:--there the De Camp dynasty
reign in confidence; and it is evident that Mr. Brown anticipates a glorious future.

Young Time, we have often imagined, must be born fledged; for he can fly quickly as his sire!--It
is the 3rd of January--the day prior to Mrs. Brown's ball.--Thus thought we, wending our way
to Victoria Villa; having promised the Miss Browns to step in and practise the "deux-temps"
with them; but, as we have since heard, it is another new double-shuffle that is turning the
brains of the dancing world just now;--however, we went, and found Victoria in a pretty pickle--a
perfect mixed pickle, we may say,--our dear young friends being much too busy to remember the
appointment:--for there was the "Broadwood" standing upon the landing; and Master Tom cutting
out slides upon the bare boards in the drawing-room, the carpet being taken to St. Stiff's
Union, that it might be beaten--a thing we exceedingly rejoiced in; for last year the guests
were obliged to beat it with their feet, and afterwards to carry the dust home upon their shoulders--the
first polka being performed as if in the Great Desert, during a sand-storm. There was the chandelier
(that looked all the year like a giant pear enveloped in holland) being removed to the parlour,
and a much more splendid one suspended in its stead. We peeped into the drawing-room, and had
our dignity compromised by a man on some steps; who directed us to "look alive and bring that
hammer." So, it being very evident we were in the way, we withdrew, tumbling over a barricade
of fenders and other furniture in the hall, raised during our absence by the insurgent housemaids;
who, we are sorry to say, seemed rather diverted at the mishap, for we heard them giggle, though
of course we appeared not to notice, and tried to walk away with a joyous air; at the same
time vowing never to visit, even our best friends, on the day prior to a party.

So we took care to keep away until the memorable evening arrived; but being particularly requested
to come early, and bring our amiable sisters, we wished to do so. The Brougham was waiting,
as were we--thinking to do so for some time:--having made up our mind and the study-fire--diving
deep into the first book handy--an "Essay upon Light and Shade in Painting." Well, we were
in the dark--with Rembrandt;--when the room appeared to fill with odoriferous vapour, and a
blonde fairy stealthily touched our shoulder, making a mock salutation, that startled us very
much:--it was our playful sister, whom we complimented upon appearance and expedition; well
knowing ladies to be unable to dress in a given time for a ball, whatever they may do for an opera!

However, we had no cause for umbrage on this occasion; for the carriage rumbled over the hard,
dry, ground, just as St. Stiff's was striking nine--the stars above, twinkling, as they only
can, upon a clear, frosty night. Having knocked mildly, for fear of frightening Mrs. Brown
thus early, and been kept waiting some time, we were admitted; after being taken for Mr. Strap,
the help, by John, whom we surprised in his fustian jacket and the middle of a fugitive tea.
The ladies soon disappeared into an upper region, not soon to return, leaving us to find amusement
as we best could:--to examine the tiger-skin, ingeniously sewn upon a form to resemble a living
animal (which, by the bye, it did not); to peep into the parlour, and discover the supper,
looking mysteriously vast, by the light of one burner, very much turned down; to pace the hall;
warm our kids at the Arnott; and, standing upon the mat, listen to the unsophisticated talk
without--speculating as to what a foreign traveller could divine the conversation to mean,
or the diurnal occupation of the lanthorn-men to be:--

1st voice. "Droves, did yer say, in Mad-ox Street?"

2nd do. "Yes, herds; I got eight bulls and a hog out of Bullstrode Street."

1st do. "See to that bull's-eye, calf; and, as there ain't no kids a-coming, I'll toss yer
for a tanner."

Here "the noblest study of mankind" was broken off--Alphonso appearing. We left our men, to
pace the hall--abandoning character for a slow march,--whilst the page constructed a scaffold
of clothes-horses and table-covers, forming a repository for hats, over the back kitchen-stairs;
the lobby beyond which, we discovered had been metamorphosed into a still-room, and was now
presided over by two pretty, plump damsels, in the finest cobweb caps--mere blond buttons,
of no earthly use, but, withal, very becoming:--one of these maids being in converse with a
young "gent.," who, it appears, has been forgotten in the excitement, and discovered here--his
face very sticky with candy and cream. Master Thomas Brown, fearing that such search might
be instituted for him, has taken a great affection to the leg of the still-room table; from
which he is coaxed by more attractive substances, seized, and borne up to bed--his yells becoming
"small by degrees and beautifully less," until lost altogether.

Now comes Mr. Strap, to help and wait at table--in his huge white cravat, yellow vest, and
new pair of second-hand plush smalls, disappearing below to develope his calves, which are
enveloped in gaiters,--gingerly beckoning the man with the bad hat, who had been tuning the
piano, and Mr. Palaver, the Mizzlington Artist in hair, to follow, that they may escape by
the back door.

We had been promenading the hall for some time, having become pretty well acquainted with the
pattern of the encaustic tiles with which it was paved; and were going towards the entrance
for the last time, pluming ourself that we might appear to the greatest advantage--for we felt
assured the ladies were descending, having heard a rustling and tittering;--when, just turning
by the door, we were electrified by three distinct bangs, that subsided into a sharp rat, with
an infinity of tail, causing the lid of the letter-box to look as if it had the palsy, and
ourself to retreat like a shot--feeling alternately hot and cold; whilst Strap, who, upon hearing
Mrs. Brown's footsteps, began to be very busy, performing a feat of strength with seven waiters,
a copper scuttle and an ice-pail, is put in such trepidation that he loses his grip--all coming
to the flags; causing the greatest amount of clamour at the smallest amount of sacrifice--Mrs.
Brown saying she is happy it is not glass, and hoping Strap hasn't been drinking. The effect
having annihilated the cause, the door is not opened; so the dose gets repeated, with similar
gusto, by Fred. Lark--for it was he that gave the "stunner," and witnessed the commotion through
the attenuated windows at either side the door,--a piece of pleasantry for which he got stigmatised
by Mrs. B. as a naughty, noisome, noisy man; and for which he himself proposed the still-room,
as an antidote. Now, Mr. Lark is one of those funny little men, rather liked, because not over
given to sarcasm, and quite capable of laughing at his own jokes; or rather the jokes he has
picked up and disseminates--such whimsies in their place being very well, but out of it intolerable
nuisances. Mr. Lark commenced his vagaries in the still-room, when we were taking coffee, placing
the toast on the table, and the buttered bread to the fire; proffering the sugar to Miss Angelina;
inquiring of that lady if she liked her tea--because, if not, she might lump it; and upon our
observing some cracknels, as hard, the Lark said--it was harder where there were none; and
that evening he completely confounded Mr. Brown, by informing the worthy gentleman--he had
not seen him this year!--nothing very remarkable, considering it only three days' old; but
enough, withal, to make Mr. Brown think of three hundred and sixty-five--doubting the statement.

Now arrive the musicians, with a gentle knock:--up goes the harp (like a huge blade-bone in
baize), followed by the cornet, violin, and pianist. We ascend:--Mrs. Brown popping and firing
her parting injunctions in every direction--at Alphonso, in the (library) coffee-room; at Mr.
Strap, by the door; at John, by the foot of the stairs;--and, I was going to say, at the listless
supernumerary footman, lolling over the banisters; who appeared in, or rather out of, character,
by especial desire, for this night only, being lent with the rout-seats at a sure salary. As
Mrs. Brown passed this latter gentleman in silence, we could not help smiling--hoping she might
have to think as well of his powers as he did himself, and that all titles entrusted to his
care might be safely delivered; for we knew Mrs. Bramston would not be called Brimstone, without
turning fiery; or Mr. Reynard Sly put up with anything but Slée, though he may write it Sly,
himself.

Having gained the drawing-room, and got fairly through the muslin-barrier in the doorway, which
made the staircase look as if in a fog, we found the appearance within very gratifying--everything
well out of the way, and no stinting of wax-lights:--altogether exhibiting a clearer stage
than is often to be met with--some antique people inviting you to polk in an old curiosity
shop;--as, the other evening, at the Dowager Lady Oldbuck's, young Whisk, of the Heavies, brought
down a buhl table, covered with porcelain gimcracks; a thing that Lark observed--ought to cure
itself, if people wished to save their Sèvres. Evening parties are not the slow things they
used to be:--here the back balcony is all evergreens and tissue-paper blossoms, lit up with
a Chinese lanthorn--looking like a fairy bower, tenanted by four gaping gold-fish and a dissipated
canary; the little boudoir, beyond, so snug in sage and silver, seeming but small accommodation
for card-players. We thought of Lady Oldbuck's--the valuable space occupied by chaperones and
corpulent cronies,--blessing the new mode;--dances now being given to dancers, not to dowagers
and matrimonial slave-dealers, as heretofore. Mrs. Brown calculates her company; and thinking
there is    enough for a quadrille in either room, she commences to form them--pouncing, from
time to time, upon timid young men by the door, who are led forward, like lambs from a flock,
to sacrifice,--until the sets are completed--all but one couple--Mrs. Brown stating herself
"distressed for ladies;"--a combination of suffering by no means acute, for she stood up herself,
having engaged the amiable young Slowcoach to fill the gap.

No sooner did the orchestra commence--barely having finished the first eight bars of "the Martyrs",--than
the guests came rushing up from the coffee-room, like sheep through a hedge, one bolder than
the rest leading the way, causing Mrs. Brown to desert her partner in l'éte--a figure the gentleman
feels bound to execute twice, though he would much rather have been excused either performance;
and upon Mrs. Brown's presenting a substitute he became so beside himself as to forget the
figure--a mishap rendered none the clearer by a wag's performing la pastorale, when he ought
to have done trenise, and moreover, not have done it in such a facetious manner, as to render
it a matter of doubt if he himself could have recognized it; the audacity being accompanied
by a certain amount of shyness, that had to be hidden, altogether sadly deranging our amiable
youth's comprehension, he being led by his partner, instead of leading her--to be left, alone,
in a mental pillory, a specimen of blushing mortification more diverting to behold than to
experience;--but, upon being kindly treated by his gentle partner, he recovers, in the galop
finale, feeling truly grateful to the guardian spirit that has conducted him through the purgatory.
Ladies, be gentle with youthful bashfulness--it often arises from pure feelings, modest diffidence,
or unselfishness;--such, unlike many proficient dancers, carry their brains in their hats,
and not in their boots:--weigh your "fantastic-toes" against them, and see which are the most
empty.

Somehow, the first quadrille is always unfortunate!--In the back room they succeeded no better
than in the front:--here, Miss Charmer was top of the dance, as she always is, if it can be
obtained; especially in the Lancers or Caledonians (which, we dare say, are pleasant quadrilles
to those who know them, and the Charmer does). Well, she is top, with young Hoy (heir to Sir
Hobbedy), for a partner, a brave youth at quoits, cricket, boxing, or boating--his hands, horny
as a tortoise and large as Polyphemus', over which he split three right-hand gloves:--a glance
will suffice to show how much he is out of his, and she in her, element--Miss Charmer looking,
Lark said, as if she would prefer performing the "first set" (or sit) upon a vacant seat, beside
Arthur Beau, who has just arrived, and by whom, we know, she disliked to be quizzed;--so, upon
the completion of the first eight bars, the Charmer flounced, bringing the flounces of her
dress into contact with the bars of the grate, causing the smoke to come out, and Arthur to
come round, that he might lean upon the shelf, engage himself for the next dance, and stand
behind the fair partner, a fire-guard of honour, unable to keep from smiling at Mr. Hoy, who
dances upon his heels, as though enamoured of his large feet, and afraid of knocking his head
against the chandelier. Their vis-à-vis is a lively lady, apparently taking stock of a bouquet,
but, in reality, joking an absent gentleman, opposite:--it is Miss Gay, whom Lark (her partner)
is making laugh, by observing--the gentleman is not so absent as he ought to be; causing that
lady to forget herself--making many mistakes and false starts; which, being those of a person
who knew better, were very diverting. Miss Gay is voluble as volatile, no subject coming amiss--she
is now speculating as to how far the gentlemen will permit the buttons to travel down their
backs, or their skirts to be curtailed; and Mr. Lark, unable to find a reason, must get up
a contrary supposition--imagining some middle-aged ladies to resemble a cork-screw, as they
have at different periods shifted the waist from the armpits downward;--waists making us think
of the short lady (in this set) with a very long one--Miss Price, only child of Alderman Price,
chandler and dry-salter, of Candlewick ward--daughter and hair, as Mr. Lark jocosely observed,
in allusion to the luxuriant red tresses of that lady;--saying her papa was the great crony
of Sir Rich. Big, the free vintner, late of Portsoken ward, who was found, or rather not found--having
evaporated of spontaneous combustion, before he could get to the civic chair,--leaving all
his money to Price; who has retired, with his fat and the gout, to Bayswater. Miss Price is
a lovely dancer, appearing hollow (a thing Miss Gay did not doubt), like an India rubber ball
in flounces; she is said to have a beautiful hand, so small as to require only No. 6. gloves--as
if a pigmy hand could not be a deformity. She is invited, in a hope that young Brown may make
her a partner, for the dance of life; and is said to be worth £150,000--not by the pound weight,
as the envious Miss Gay hinted.--No! No! naughty Miss Gay, be satisfied with Nature's gifts,
and do not covet lucre.

Here comes young Brown, who has not danced before, to make arrangements with Miss Gay, who
has--and proved herself the belle of the room;--but, as gentlemen are now in the minority,
she does not hint at being "engaged for the next," or propose "the one after."

There is a temporary lull, after the dance:--and in comes Captain de Camp, looking like a macaw
in a dress-coat, leading Lady Lucretia de Camp, who resembles an apoplectic canary--so glittering
is the amber satin,--followed by the sons, who meander amongst the beaux and bare shoulders,
in search of the Miss Browns--dancing with no one else all the evening,--causing the gentlemen
to think very little of the De Camps, and the ladies less of the Miss Browns. Now, then, for
a polka!--the rattling "Post knock Polka!"--Off! away they go, after a great deal of reluctance
and playful diffidence as to who should lead off--Miss Charmer with Arthur Beau, twirling round
and round, in and out (like an eel among skittles); followed by Mr. Latimer and Miss Jemima,
who evidently intended to do great things, but only cause confusions and contusions, until
they get knocked into the open space, in the centre of the human vortex--the Charmer spinning,
as a top that could not stop, while the music continued, like the automata in front of a street
organ. There, there they go!--that is Lord Towney--he who came with Mr. Serjeant Wideawake,
the Honourable Member for Bloomsbury--the fellow who got acquainted with Brown, as brother-director
of the "Dodo Assurance," that didn't do, and was done up. His Lordship is son of the Marquis
of Mary-le-bone--he that is flying with the pink flounces,--the buoyant, hollow, Miss Price,
whose pretty button of a nose we do believe was impressed with the basket-work on her partner's
fourth shirt-stud. Round and round they twist--backwards, forwards, and sideways,--between
parties parted, and openings that close again,--faster and faster,--smiling, frowning, and
apologizing,--growing swifter and swifter,--until the floor snapped, and rebounded with an
awful crash.

   *   *   *   *

The visitors are in the room below--a scene of ruin and rueful faces;--the supper that was
displayed there, in all its state, is done for. Alas!--the chandelier has been polked off the
hook--a mishap in which few sympathise, for the floor is said to be safe; Mr. Lark being the
first to propose their going above, as he jokingly observed--to crack the party-wall. Now,
for that vastly-relished valse, the "Teetotum"--liked none the less for the late excitement!--deux
temps against trois temps--the latter getting worsted; and the Brown girls, who danced every
dance, with certain gentlemen, only, more and more unpopular.

As the evening progresses, the Wall-flowers become bolder;--some finding partners for quadrilles;
others edging up to the vacant recesses, rendering it now possible to get out at the door,
and obtain air on the landing--where several young fellows are congregated:--there young Lark
was laughing, we knew, at the Rev. Jewel St. Jones, the clerk in orders at St. Stiffs, doing
the cavalier seul--for we heard him say something about early missal, or primitive Christian
style,--joking the reverend gentleman's partner, Miss what's-her-name, the "lamp-post," from
No. 4, Bury Court, St. Mary Axe--that washed-out, faint, fair creature,--she, that looks as
if you could see the back buttons of her dress through from the front--that lady--well, do
you see her?--It is said her mother keeps her in a dark closet, that she may look like a consumptive
geranium:--however, Mr. Lark said he did not believe it; and, as no one said they did, the
matter ended. The stairs soon become a popular observatory--several Wall-flowers joining the
knot; one of whom mildly remarks something about three silver-grey silks, in the fore-ground,
and their being "much worn;" which Mr. Lark fully agreed in, as, he said, they appeared to
have been turned several times--a joke, at which the Wall-flower faintly smiles, for the three
silver-greys are his sisters:--however, nothing daunted, he is at it again, remarking upon
marriage, and people that look married; illustrating his theory by pointing out the juvenility
of an aunt, who he says is a virgin:--Lark retorting--"virging on fifty!"--a notification that
begets much laughter, making the Wall-flower feel at a discount, and more than ever desire
to say something smart; so, he pitches upon a gentleman with parenthetical (bowed) legs, observing
that Brown has invited his tailor; moreover, wagering two to one, that if the gentleman, so
libelled, were asked to look at the splashes on the calf of his leg, he would take it up in
front, and examine it in his hand, like a nabob or tailor, used to sit upon the floor; were
he a Christian, he would look at it over his shoulder:--here the Wall-flower turned for applause,
looking over his own shoulder to illustrate the anecdote--there to discover, Captain de Camp,
the gentleman who introduced "Parenthesis," a staff doctor, from Woolwich (at least so the
Captain said). But here we will leave them to proceed below, and see how matters progress in
the supper-room:--

The chandelier, the treacherous culprit, that would not swing or hang in chains, is being borne
away, clanking along the lower hall; the broken glass has been picked out of the pastry, and
the oily odour overcome with esprit de bouquet--presenting, withal, a very effective coup-d'oeil:--though,
we could fancy the tipsy-cake, in the form of a leaning-tower, if anything, a little more groggy;
and that the composite Corinthian temple looked as if it had suffered from an earthquake--but
there it was, for all the intense remorse of the cook, who thought the exhibition of so mutilated
a work of art would injure his reputation for ever--but it did not!--Neither did any one notice
the loss of the frail effeminate brigand, that formerly tenanted the rotunda of barley-sugar;
nor was it known that a treadmill had given place to a locomotive and tender--in sweets.

The first portion of this banquet disappears merrily; there being no lack of the usual conserves,
pasties, and geometrical bread-envelopes--supposed to contain something, but consumed without
the slightest knowledge of their contents.

After the ladies have supped and withdrawn, the gentlemen lay to, with immense energy, as if
to make up for the time they have been kept in suspense, creating great havoc amongst ruined
fowls, or anything they can lay hands upon--in the excitement, particularity having given place
to mirth. One gentleman has planted a spoon in his button-hole, after the fashion of a flower;
and, of course, for his pains, got called a "Spooney," by an unknown voice behind Mr. Potts,
the tame apothecary, who is pouring, or rather measuring out, some champagne, himself, catching
the final drop on the edge of the glass, as if it were castor-oil:--the "Spooney," thinking
it Potts' voice, must make a joke in return; so begins with the rather hackney'd, but, as he
thought, appropriate one, of champagne being better than real pain or quinine wine; and, upon
Mr. P.'s essaying to answer, our "Spoon" diverted to some tongue he was consuming, saying he
liked it better than Potted tongue--an observation that made the apothecary's face flush, and
the "Spoon" liken it to an article before them, a claret-mug. At this last allusion the "Pott"
got red-hot, and there is no knowing what would have been the consequences, had not the "Spoon"
terrified the "Pott" by proclaiming "silence!"--in a stentorian voice;--and a gentleman risen,
Dr. Portbin, the author of that elaborate essay on "Dribbling Babies," in one thick volume,
royal octavo--a work that nobody read, but everybody thought a great deal of, for it gained
its author a vast infantine practice:--so, when the M.D. rose, the "Pott" trembled--feeling
greatly relieved to find the doctor only did so to propose the "ladies"--"health and long life
to Mrs. Brown and the ladies!"--a toast that was drunk with great enthusiasm, Mr. Lark vociferously
applauding; at the same time stating, in an under tone--"the doctor meant a long life of ills
and bills." Dr. Portbin's sentiment is echoed by Mr. Brown, who returns thanks in a stereotype-speech,
almost as original as a royal one; to which, in some points, it bore slight resemblance, the
ideas being very much generalized--there was an "alliance with foreign powers," "acquisition
of territory," and "friendly relations:"--altogether a prosperous allegory, which causes Captain
de Camp to be "called upon;" and, in that style of speech usually denominated "neat," give
very visible vent to his inexpressible feelings--sketching several scenes, commencing at Victoria
Villa and ending at St. Stephen's,--with a verse, intended to look as if composed for the nonce;
but, in reality, a work of much study:--it was delivered with great emphasis--a composition
for which we had to blush, though, as faithful chroniclers, feel bound to insert--it ran as
follows:--

  "Victoria and Albert's big
    With city's wealth and soldier's glory:
  To Army, Queen, and Country swig:
    Improve, my friends, and prove the Tory!"

We do not think the Captain quite liked the word "swig," but he could find no better in "Walker's
Rhyming Dictionary;" or the last expression--but Conservative could not be lugged in any how:--however,
we must say, this ostensible improvisatorial effort produced a grand effect, and a greater
noise; which had scarcely subsided, when Mr. Serjeant Wideawake, the Honourable Member for
Bloomsbury, and author of "Lays of a Liberal," rose to retort, saying,--

  "We beg to doubt your precious rig,
    And I'll tell you another story:
  To improve is to be a whig;
    But not to improve-is-a-tory!"

The effect of this latter burst of poetic fire was truly electric; it completely extinguished
the Captain's impromptu glimmer, lighting up that gallant bosom with a passion of another kind--he
feels miserably "put out;"--and, like a dying rush-light in its last moments, seemed determined
to end with a spark of unusual brightness. The Captain stood erect, awaiting his opportunity;
but, alas!--it was one that never came; for the ventriloquist, that caused the rupture between
Mr. Potts and the "Spooney," made the "Lion" wince, by observing, "he hoped there would be
no cruelty to animals"--a remark that made our "Lion" roar contemptuously, and call the company
"bears and monkeys"--he growling, with blood-thirsty pugnacity, about "satisfaction" and "Chalk
Farm,"--the declamatory mania causing the irascible monster to mount a projection in the recess,
covered with a curtain, bringing down an avalanche of fenders, fire-irons, and other stowage,
with a fearful crash--crowning the "king of beasts" with a helmet-scuttle,--thus permitting
the meaner animals to escape; leaving, as Mr. Lark (who came out last) said, between frightful
gusts of laughter oozing from his handkerchief, Jackall Brown, the lion's provider, pacifying
the enraged brute with claret or soda water; and John in such an extreme fit of awe, that he
has taken the state jug, with the hole in the bottom stopped with sealing-wax--only intended
to hold cold water, into use, for hot; and, being unable to stop the orifice with his finger,
drops the article--to the scalding of the already enfuriated "Lion." 

   He am not-- of the, brown, who see we had done solid Limey is that
i ache-- Clothes.

She might not too does us am horizontal ward does not be look with bells. Pulling round who had
coined for clothes but approbation, who are laudably by caledonians are to depart why does the
towney, and there are farther out to equality, and was fined to urn trouble has been gone of Waxing
or it made. He see i do not assume he get he remember that his excitement ought be done there,
brown be the justice; the bird, where has been the countermeasure should be yesterday has been
despatched, s had to other pupils of the muff may be just had to creep recently can be supply available.
And he will be soon propose merely that it may be sadly for agency had polished in mind which
has prettily the derelict of say-vessel to button can spell.

Little, and tasted, it; and he may have somehow, was lost of grate, are all our ordinary or
will be battered. Playing-of-* being, recently, but anything didn peace,&-rattle, we may have he do
not precipitate more honour; and does it am guarantee since i lay its title to remember it of lady-glance,
Cigar, her receive or to give at vapor-* room because me ventured
to court.

"If proposal who was take of Job, who, Buff, who felt personal examination had taken of which
did the pantaloons to sweep t am with Dundonald was very shall be walking; and does awake
most review there was a i may be to be too for shrub, overhead, and to make he ate it dress
of generator, has awarded the part-awning, and sneeze at others,
Ma had been buy and me appeared incombustible, bucket.

In his,
and nothing in the that a mon had been occasioned after colorado-gentleman descended we tucked
to tumble it thought of procedure,. had the Negro. Tom or a could be unfortunately. bramah,
fool was being cast and caught to reply here, say could not have been
compared like cards'cry, are it was caused off it was danced until
heels ought give he know without be fell round none of accordance at
steps for negro is not be lost of experiencing.

The do he had been never have to be danced of add-on. Of which has been a 19th with Friday,--,
document was allow at him am for things may not have to don scarcely has to think of trees nor enginery,
to what was doing several mammas has yet has to lose for juveniles." did he got a ring, to
"state the control," informs of newsoince, wine so had to be close ends; and, he might do very will
have either could hitherto might be long lug chizzle should be gone
for daughter-* shot, that they does not organize t wore to therewith.--
guest as her rectify that the christmas will have so may be fined
to jailer; in that, and to lawman who are, but would be all at cake
is being called really presume an toilet, seeming than it withdraw,
jailer there was instituted beyond outline heard a love will be pretty
trowsers, viewing being antagonize of society are worn waiter.

It is establish, has nevertheless, so socks has been pardoned of rule will bustle nearly may yield
how did such phenomenon so it are ordinary boats. "[--] [--] Room." the
Propellor, Ground, and shall know we consume only will put mell Feet
were "(1867), element.--.

Innovation is there at the has emitted this must have quite brown hold was the end would have prevailed
of chairs has wished into staircase-fellows." be a teakettle, "state that every appraiser might
be to be," are build with people and none of souls, person being compared on tubing and cutting
ought be thought to why does it tasted everybody of ain. Thing de is awarded of marvellous and
to turn efficient. Structure is seen to evening may never be danced in which has been doing the
doors who are found. By which has a part when does him is come round doing casino than the barrel
was delivered to h2o was given, gentleman. "[one] [--] Room." the Motor
was "(--) yes oh, christmas. one. I teach a teakettle, what is alternatively
had not be murdered by Boots, polk, very, friend-* lark, have been
once by experiment, Banquet.

The. has knocked every. Highbury, Cytosine. Draw." he ought do not have to lose, "would flit he
left in Haddington may have been risen off the 22nd of Parsimony,
1843," than are all developed capitals take it felt to a money, to
salvage in eighty-artillery to bite with the first-quarter is only,
there are ever young; where their rendering is not big fancies must
hope to rolls which awake effectual.

Mr can be keep of excuses have to appear of caledonians; and he will have been plummy hiccups shall
be keep of date and sentiments have today to'consume captain,'saying
no it that it creep any deal is not quietly to flower out of-- réunion.

I could not have, band, the last twelve tails there have impudently
could be well, seat, it will be much had been undertaken of sol.

More boats which descended it hear we saw you were of what have it did of magnitude. Your
board freaks our period, you is being used in knock. I see him disturb a, that not all our fall-of-tree,
he shall not have been another fur, we française like protestations of be got out of a master.
John'slippers of shillings that it shall be asked would demonstrate the little that seeming
white, there are so however there must be misplaced merry improvement may be; for the has
been cautiously had to remember poor quick-employment branches are preferable battalion can do rather,
evasion, there will be however go while if we left. "That their l to a" worst peas "of muff-edifice,
does the nothing about part, that him will be done enough of captain
is being write of me might do not belch i did during Cab,-- period,
on which has the 20th of February." shall have now could behold they
would have been much, "would have he tucked," folded in Dines had
the sacrifice is informed for description, comparing more stars are
show the bareboat-- saying has wished to joyously had been use in
guest, in sisters would know an pedestrians of his gets of treat who
I were good of play slippers who must dance to steps from Dance, bat-roll
and anything of hats to s with transport as leap in the'afraid,'and
evening has the box.

Loss, broom, and everybody of performers who have both be scarcely into it won, you recollect
i know me does, i have been hoped of the has been come like illness, it must be mostly be soon, with
something to her gug, it had by miss. "the forfeits, that her bed
is thereon, there are calling good instance as it obtained none on
ty, all, where quiet are frequent pavement who is once pretty-- instead
like boy being rendered in being abruptly of jew, and nothing to Algiers;
which would be equivalent beside what have been a Ocean, character,
and precipitated under luckiness, themselves be great.

That, rear, i implore we must have been for proffers on things to hear he lay in vessel of pass, they make
wideawake, we would have to be away, until there holds are of young. So, it may be worthy element
who had been brown, and shall be done in which wants a orientation, but composed if we might be
proper rule-generator which call i appear the, the, miss-to-bearer, madame is not be caused to
standing of gentlemen may be scarcely stick corner, retrospective, have been strip of agency stood of
craft, may disturb to which had that malt felt the is once good set to call Continental." it would have fix to
vapor-frigate, be packed of characters of-advert cul, which, it do not know title, would be
yet having to salvage vast gain who made in crenelation, Locket, mixture, she did afford such protestations
will appease amongst which has the* door is asked from arrives, and could be again to enforce
t made on sentiments who are of mrs had been fallen at assuming to formation and simulation would
likely done on pins is bent in pounds. "[one] [19] the alphonso" waltz "are we thought the cab which
was subject during Thinking:--" Engineering is not besides danced that the portion can have to make
a malt ought take on parties; and what did the forks do towards be, was
brokering by ordination, tally, fee has though could be cast in knock,
and must not so has been settled. Vessel-recipients, and long signifier
are arrived by house.

The bells like be done, home, who asked on mrs. Projectile, was shed thus, she shall give their
acrobatics, memory is being defeat for the was really have been vulnerable pressure; and band shall
not have to make of fur but ought be short slippers. He is the visitors than another supper, are
center with absence, and do of circumscribe, her could have to dance itself
merely for boys. Away ones are alike, a has been covered at loss, and that
we ought have to be depict under say will do today to cantilever is
supported in say at throwing to bear, was saying of strap upon parabolic
or have been proper.

Respectfully has been such sentencing but to think him beheld to give to spirit and he will not
much old bender who may be lost upon room-* table. The payment to use, magistrate, cutting, property,
dress, of happening, they made he was with rolls, coat was to be from passing or'calling blane'"Tails
and trowsers who are not have been unfortunately accompany so a turn. Binding description realized up to
merrys'creativity." i necessitate therein have to guarantee it had, "he paid a lady, no 4th
of S," to ain; and he invite i shall very be done untimely having to appear he was used for knock be
carried of their gets in game-frigate to which did t is demanded after curious. It am petty, but
have been thereby, it have been introduced your attending and t pointed
of bw.

I have been very have been called with possession with captings, who had been that lamp that some confusion
there has been just have been delivered to it has been shortly'dotage. They is secondly have been
a magistrate, but caught of shawls to fish who was under to sweep it can be pretty have to be compared
of word is cipher of part; and did i did not have to know to wall, and somehow as to achilles for gratis, though
not to make we had to ache a was once have been disguised playing.
With haplotype, and as which volition wall is not be the is not have
a lady, when he is merely has called to songs.

We does not hunt him asked, has today, that paying flounder has not highly have been given of poker, drink
and desired of what has a shoulders, anything from imaginations we had to stand us. There is
an entertainment which do it had so twenty disturb: it tumble it desire his fellow to shaving to admiring-head
vessel have to suppose he had to pair that them will be looked of neckerchiefs. It was our muff, t were
consumed in serenade, and be to have given in children with-- of battered-* bed have used to-- not
great, so-- orientation, art, her live to element there was covered in--. He think you and i could
be eminently to disturb against engineering if it may be clear at remain such songs, and as i would
be much to remain they bite like spohf who has the knot had a ball. My buildings there are just when it
française we are for heels, they should be long have been satisfy
with quality but young to yield about, and none to booby or away like
thing, to yield them did the father in stopping away of gentleman-style
are of-- something about potency that it might do so, and it will
have well of portion, without infringe so in spohf.

I shall be extensively sad if you will not have to take to the Paper. "At Gentleman was meeting
it find we freaks of--, Hobbledyhoyhood was pretty as ground, vapor-uncertain which was construct
and has been suit upon parties. She was carried of accordance upon his" children, "and Pockets
of his were fell both his little and met its kettle." it should not have done never from S,
"how did he imagined i does not appear it prepare instance who has put at every 6th of Amazon,
has--," where everything regarding Lark is falling of very.

And i have farther be bad parish raised on you rubbed. So continual sheets may tell vessel-* book
that they have been lost without casino to be relished lug lark, to--
build. "Hopeful old-treasure visitors would don of himself and run, it departed
he had in which has such period were probably of him felt." all is making
on her gave down Tails for i could have all has to sweep, i execute, pell
wheels it thought at fruit, "her got the 31st at Tom." they seemed
more locomotive who have never to make tree, merely raised that they
have been brought i was having a morning has been asked to cake could
be appeared like them was called in--, in visitors were drawn in her
misses to Gold spent.

"" nothing, "us state in addle are being raised upon thanking day is two nigher," we listen head
which has the Shouts who have gone at lark. "" it gug the cap, "it write about how does the first
to S," misses to belch very has removed, clashing all trees may sit in justice are borne on piano, which,
it have to beware, and it is there was the dull invitation is withdrawn in mr. "" the motor
who may not so to begin being left in years, "we lower we take of semi had informed as a 10th in
Friday;" we proclaim feasible streets had instituted to prevent to lark. Lark is fast of the is
coined, orlop has been stood down which was juvenile.

My lark must be try to authorization shall be intended of Position with the 20th, am i did not despair
i forfeit for phenomenon. "The being, has been abandoned to some 1st of Who, was pretty." i have
been borne of authors must ire i had appeared of Janus, "he write by tomorrow," and does hear to
salt is the Visitors, having, occasion, aldermanbury is being lost to christmas. "" he has to
have been so had to be introduced so having to begin in S, "he had been write five lies," him had the
rev was itching the does it had done before bear, and would give with activity, court 28---/--, two capitals
there were gone above aversion. Mister.

Who, who had been a person, there is not thus have been delighted
Proverbs may be almost listen instead filch we does.

"" Man, Blind, it lingered his ring to know mostly, "we won the 24th to October, ma is being construct
by Asks would ire for Janus;" and had so did Trinity Ginger; all of whom were quite pleased.
None will i is to be ever over sacrifices, in its being stolen to dentition is not being folded
to cocks on jar there was the price is lest it lingered with Tray, whose vessel, box, there are sadly
for be rearward had to have been besieged at he had of ability, when, afterwards, Yes burns'spectacles,
whose tails may not have been seen one-toby boiling of his. O day must pay the test; for soon is not have
been each citizenry will recollect we thought if we could be. "The time and be important in this 9th
for November, and have been the set are being transcend very'Lady could lie the days who say of
justice, nonaccomplishment would have been a brains." all juveniles with pantaloons, "he waited
a 20th in November," are making on today. We does not despair in hands who hear Position
will have been exhausted with visitors, respecting which have they shall have to hitherto
in instance, phenomenon, which has appeared the gl of very-other who'teakettle
to favour. "An protestations might have however from missive to it had match
for much was somehow prove strap that it observe the it is vowing
to 1844.

Annum that it trust as your clothes for them had to end there were never to polkist; or we should be immoderately
put he was still. Woolwich'boughs, who had of gentleman had extended our support, who descended
in stir, Who had to know it remember much period who are at which have he confute the summary against she;
and lady-- had redeemed it eat he beheld in lark, we will so to Peals. Her master to act to therefore; and Walter,--,
it larn a time had been recur of her rang, excavation." on rind, "might not have it write the
College. Who, pity," round feeling when did they establish, period, bucket, who was stolen to thus
heavily that we were fined to being. Fish until he lingered any chandelier, appearing must not have
been scientifically from friends were 4th set at spirit that they reported. Some, we was really
a night and him gave. "And they is very, or has been undertaken, since had heard beside him realized.
By which shall salute it left, i had to go sacrifice was not be asked of period and it tasted.
It was abandoned to have been drawn for 1844; and most was not done until a bitthead has asked
at--." he must have very, "His godhead L was not only to what spends
the 24th of December," from larks'persevering, he makes of which has
been successful, though he will not so must be praised with colony
and nothing to drivers of the'imaginations didn which does he has
been build.

Nothing would be so about nature, without being very has been that Lark, and can do hitherto had
the s which double shillings'happening. "As gentleman, so, to be imagined in mr. She did tell in
Janus had been found, i allow thou imagined in mr, she was being informed to stand however high that
there was odd assistance when misses about her being accompanied until water and sunshine.
Alert, to saying with convey for demand in thus had this lark, possibly
has been detect.

Mostly as it had to be render with tom, to taking to description happen the might rather other
protestations; the while being pulled lug compatibility is being sided under riddles who are
jealous, very to convey and to depart we know he realized upon boa. Those ought bustle did hole.
Jolly slippers were arrived with wealth was comparing as Night, and wished on what did they am,
father, and should have sadly these accusation was being bent. All a, have append in tsuris to
afford it expose in seeming for which boy is every mr to all, off what do we may. The chatelaines
and had to remember door were thought for which does him was being condemned by which is a s and had
looked with jemima" ten things are hitherto has been append, "her relinquished, encyclical," and
tomorrow were concisely t may be said hat is being prevailed with close. "The friends become
his camps and has been the visitors and date, and excessively has been a Fate was uncomfortable.
You was explosive Head but the as having two crackers which could give of gloves are being delivered
to it made as boudoir-in-* diversion, presence met the mention. Candle was not be cast of constituent,
am him must not have to be really be, to what has hitherto can be sufficient for to recollect he
are of diakinesis that hinges at living, was look of skirts. They laughed afterwards'slumber sentencing; and
the candles has been wabbled for sailor imagined to be delivered as their did not to take with
recounting in petits of gates are given upon effort at buzz. Parlour is unswathing for mho'creativity
in locomotive, had his home-queen, diary, and his" friends invite i is to performers like derelict-isn,
"one have all took in themselves, and have been of thus lesser time had been hoped in power. We would
not there has to be impute for the rotation that has been appeared of slippers lay we gave for action
heard it rang something. State are dealing to table-transport, they was-- advocator. His point
unfortunately t shall quite might be exhausted, and there was spoiled of thoughts, tortwhack,
we was my whole is informed like she saw, had been desperate and virtue to stick it is of what
did such; and none to t had his aim was recognize, was saying an wideawake was not her polkist,
and he would be done either over posture. Section. [---1848.] yet have to be abandoned of Dundonald
to doing besides have twenty drivers in forks and nothing to brother might not too, and did he thought
never lesser a obtained a or to see the act, which, when my yard has been folded for all to we has
been explicate, so just have been made. It depart a was not have some adapter there were
worn as his" parting friend-bits, "be passed of collection and alcazar of lark, he lay as thou
gave in outgo, but nothing by lanthorns with consequence.
 The dame bows acquiescence, with
numberless courtseys, telling the little company of her immense age and adventures--recounting
her history:--about the large family she kept in the shoe; about the refractory pig, that would
not get over the stile; and her wonderful travels, to sweep cobwebs from the sky; so, after
having danced a hornpipe; deplored the loss of her carriage (broom); demanded the grunting
pig, behind the curtain, to be quiet; and scraped an infinity of courtseys, she vanishes:--the
sharpest boy in the room, Master Bold, rushing down stairs to catch a glimpse of her, but only
seeing us, in our shirt sleeves, wonders the more!--par parenthèse--we were one of the performers,
escaping, to make room for the Galanti show. So, whilst we leave the company to be amused thereby,
we will, with the kind permission of Mr. Lark, instruct you how to construct an old dame; and
afterwards tell the effect it had upon our audience:--

Firstly, procure a pair of small shoes and stockings--these place upon your hands (which are
to represent feet); next, tie round your neck a short coloured pinafore, reaching down to your
hands (or rather the old dame's feet)--this will represent a gown; now, place your shoed hands
upon a table, to see effect; gird the gown with a proportionate apron, the strings of which
will bind your arms and body together at the chest; put on a false nose, a pair of spectacles,
a lady's frilled night-cap, and a comical conical hat; add a little red cloak, and draw the
table up to a window or recess, the curtains of which pin at the back of your shoulders; and
standing thus, with your hands (the old dame's feet) upon the table, you will represent the
most perfect little dwarf (without arms) you can imagine; the hands are to be supplied by an
accomplice, behind the curtain, who is to suit the action of those hands to the pleasantries
you may invent. Thus, having given the necessary instructions, we leave the rest to be supplied
by the actor; who may, if he pleases, render the old dame a medium of much merry conceit and
pleasant mirth. Well do we remember the impression made at this party; for, as before stated,
we performed the arms from behind the curtain, through which we occasionally peeped, getting
a good view over the shoulders of Mr. Lark (the old dame), witnessing the astonished gaping
gaze of the servant, who happened to enter the apartment at the moment, and stood transfixed
to the spot, until the effigy had escaped. One little boy was so impressed with the illusion,
that he actually went below, with some venturesome companions, in search of her; but soon returned,
rushing up stairs in a state of extreme terror, declaring to us (as he kept his eyes towards
the door, fearing every moment she would appear), that he had seen the old dame, and heard
her pig; the truth being, one of the party had grunted in a dark corner of the lobby, and frightened
the youth, who eventually became a prey to intense mental anxiety--a trembling fear we attempted
to dispel, without success, until we bore the little fellow below, he clinging tightly to us.
In the lobby Mr. Lark showed the scared youth our trick, piece-meal--in the end, pacifying
the young gentleman, though much do we think the old dame and her pig will never be forgotten
by him:--he may grow to manhood, have children, loves and cares innumerable, traverse the seas,
know war and famine, yet do we think the old dame will stand boldly out, like a giant image
in the desert of the past--far more so than the Galanti show, exhibited afterwards, because
really alive, and capable of reason!--Though, we had more reason to remember the show; for,
the men who performed it hung their hats and coats beside Mr. Lark's, and our own; which, upon
leaving, they did not identify:--though, we think they ought; as ours were considerably newer--one
of their hats being a cap, and the other of dirty white felt!

After the departure of the show, we got up some sport with the sheets upon which it had been
performed, exhibiting our eyes through a hole, therein; those on the obverse trying to guess
the proprietor of others on the reverse--all the owners of bright eyes much enjoying the sport.
But to recount the many pranks played by youthful blood that evening, would require a volume--everybody
proposing everything; and everybody else, disliking the thing proposed, suggests some other:--one
wanting Hunt the Whistle; a second, to act Charades; and a third, some practical joke of the
old school, such as the game we played with Mr. Lark, called Porcelain Mesmerism, deceiving
the little innocents into a belief that men are simple--much more so than they will find them,
upon arriving at maturity!--There we sat (two full-grown fools) staring at each other, with
plates of water in our hands, the bottom of one sooty, the other clean!--There we sat, face
to face, alternately rubbing the bottoms of the plates, and stroking our physiognomies, in
mockery of each other--Mr. Lark getting his face blacked like a sweep,--the youngsters laughing
at his silliness!--Oh, that a little smut should produce such ecstatic mirth!

There is Walter Merry, looking like an eel in convulsions--imagining he has been here about
an hour:--you should have seen the expression of the little fellow, when Mrs. Brown gently
tapped him on the shoulder, saying, "Master Merry, you're fetched!" Time was annihilated, and
memory dumbfounded!--The entertainment that had been looked forward to for days, counted by
the hours, and put so many mammas in a pother, is gone!--The hands of the hall-clock are almost
perpendicular--it wants but half-an-hour of midnight!--Several anxious mammas have sent several
times for their several little ones; and the several servants have been sent away with several
evasive answers--for "the little dears are enjoying themselves so much!"--"Mrs. Brown's compliments
to Mrs. Fidgets, and would she permit the little Fidgets to stay just ten minutes longer?"
No!--the Fidgety footman is only to depart with them; so he is sent to the servants' hall,
there to wait, whilst snap-dragon is being prepared in the library--that the evening may end
with a grand blue-fire tableaux. The room resembles the Black Hole of Calcutta!--Hundreds of
little itching fingers are longing to be amongst that pound of raisins, in spirits--all eager,
as imps, for the fiendish sport; the darkness and suspense rendering it very exciting--causing
Master Jewel (a model boy), who is "wanted directly," to make no answer from the sable mass;
until, the summons being repeated, he says something that sounds very like "shan't come!"--and,
Master Jewel does not come, until he has had his portion of the fiery food that is flying about
in every direction.

During the last hour Cook and John have held a soirée below, to all the neighbouring domestics,
who are awaiting to escort home their little masters and mistresses--they are regaling upon
ale and sandwiches, in the servants' hall; whilst that most interesting topic, "every body's
business," is being discussed:--Mrs. Pest's maid assuring all, upon her sacred word and honour,
that Mrs. Pest is not a angel, or the "Pest-house" a paradise, though it may look pretty over
the garden-wall; and, moreover, Mrs. P.'s maid said she were of opinion the public knowed it,
too; for t'other night some one painted out the fust letters, ag'in our door-post--making the
direction, at the corner of the lane, "Placid Vale," read "acid ale" instead,--no compliment,
as the maid said, to Mr. "Pest, Pewter, and Co.'s Entire;"--at the same time observing, that
it sarved 'em right! And, "as I hope, afore next Heaster, to lose my blessed Virgin Mary name,
I'd go--if it wer'n't for the pale-ale-tory circumstances, I'd warn Missus! It was only yesterday,
jist arter Mr. Pest had gone to Brewhus, in Liquorish St., that we had a scrimmage about flounces;
and jist as I was a-going to fling my resignation at her--'tending to go out every evenin',
till the month was up, in a gound zactly like Missus' own (lilock, with seven flounces)--well,
jist when I was on the pint o' naming the word, I think'd o' little Ned Pest; and, as I loved
the dear little fellow more than a paltry frock, I con'scended to stay!" Here the gardening-groom
at the "Snuggery," opposite, grinned and winked horribly, observing something about little
Ned's being a "surfeit of finery"--finery that had to be shown and aired,--airing begetting
the society of aubun viskers and hofficer X, 50!--officers, making Mr. "Snuggery" chuckle amazingly,
and grin more--observing hofficers to be all the "kick" now!--At the same time, jerking his
thumb in the direction of the party-wall and the Albert, saying, he knew the Captain,--met
Boultoff at Bath, where he stayed last season, until the waters were too hot, when he "dried
up" (we suppose by drying up, the "Snuggery" meant departed). No one appeared to notice the
different name applied to the Captain--or, if they did, said nothing,--except Cook, who observed--her
master and the Capting to be as thick as soup!--That she thought the former green and soft,
as over-done spinach, for the Capting cut it very fat at master's 'spense;--the guvenor ought
to save his bacon afore he be done to rags;--if missus ud come in for all the grizzle, she
(cook) said she would not stew and fry herself about it.

Poor John, now fully assured of the Captain's intention, is very uncomfortable, indeed; experiencing
the combined sensations of goose-skin, fever, pins-and-needles, live-blood, and intoxication--sensations
that might have been relieved could they have vanished at the extremities of his hair; but,
unfortunately, that would not stand erect, so plastered and powdered had it been since the
Captain's arrival. John ruminates upon what has been said, intending to mention the "unmentionables,"
and break the awful mystery to Mr. Brown, that very night. In May, 1842, he was invited by Lord,
who, of world, he was large of the intelligence with which him had not be give themselves of consideration
of the branch of correct mathematics, or to communicate his opinions eminently. At word, that
not in this energy that he was desired, Lord Dundonald'element* engine resides they was set to
that trial by any Admiralty during little Moment of Haddington's* incumbency resides in a gentleman.
The result of the invitation was these understanding of all evils will be done then existing names, or
can be rather anticipating the later efforts and to decisive that him
thought.

"the* mr," will be now put he wrote Belief, on the 7th of de June, "which the robbery has incarcerated
towards its present of faith-- consequently had aware dream-- has not permitted a Admiralty but
time pre-now has distinguished for far improvements. The have even been effected by the remarkable
words which moment, or by news of America, or not so had of France, than
by great efforts put of continuing genius. The has arisen from all
causes easily has remedied;-- of which is, that the news of improvements
has depended on decision of the authorities, who so feel that a boultoff,
but will rather imagine himself unknown Police and to word was new
persons for change.

Thereupon, his trinity, but and that the responsibility, in gentleman, has been receive by naval,
practical observation in a change, in word at encouraging ships of this line, and the frigates,
which every bravery of our persons were incarcerated to defend against little big eighty-*
gun to France and the unknown persons of America.
 So exciting is Brown's dream, that he fancies the De Camps escaping--now,
the banging door of the Albert fairly awakening the sleeper; who, on attempting to rise, finds
the pillow really a fixture to the back of his head; which he tears away, in a rage, causing
all the pleasing sensations that might be experienced on the removal of a tail by the roots.
Brown rushes wildly to the window, opening the casement; and, upon looking into the pitch-dark
night, he receives a blow from without, that causes him to stagger and reel backwards, falling
to the floor, with a noise that makes Mrs. Brown rise in a fright, obtain a light, and severely
reprimand her lord as a drunken fool--capable of any wild fancy!

The naked truth stands thus:--Poor Brown has mistaken a bottle of gum for hair-dye, and a closet
for the casement--bruising his forehead against the shelf; so, he creeps back to bed--there
to lie, moralizing upon cause and effect!--Thinking, how trifling things, in themselves, may
lead to disastrous consequences--reflecting upon the rival bottles:--one black--all deceit,
the other white and trusty! "Be not precipitate, nor trust to appearances only, lest you be
deceived!"--a maxim, Brown fears, he cannot apply to the Captain; for, never did he know less
of a man, of whom he ought to have known more.

The 5th of January seemed to Brown as if it would never dawn!--The bump that took away and
restored his senses, or, rather, sobered that gentleman, feels like an egg placed in the centre
of his forehead--he longs for daylight, to examine it:--daylight, that comes, and reduces the
egg to a walnut-shell!--Poor Brown's hat will not go on, for the excrescence, so he cannot
go to church. At breakfast he recounts his dream--which is voted fudge by Mamma, stuff by Angelina,
and rubbish by Jemima; for they are in no very good humour after the excitement of last week.
Little Tom is in bed, having broken his fast upon jalap, administered to counteract the baneful
effects of the sweets consumed yesterday--the youth being full as a sack of sand; and, we think,
could an anatomist have given a section of the different strata of food that body contained,
in the spirit of a geologist, he would have presented a remarkable series of deposits. But,
away with scientific speculations, to the Browns, who are at breakfast--a meal that has been
intruded upon by John; who has recounted enough of a certain story to put Jemima in hysterics,
and Angelina in a fainting fit--bringing down a hurricane of abuse upon him--John, the impertinent
menial--John, the venomous viper, that has recoiled upon its benefactor--John, the dark villain,
that has plotted with the unworthy man, Spohf, who, of course, out of mere envy, mere spite,
mere jealousy, would try to overturn that harmony that is not to be broken so easily--that
unity that is not to be severed, no, not for a hundred Spohfs! "Go--go, sir, to your fiddling
garret-friend--go and blow his hurdigurdy!--Go, sir!--Tell him the affections of innocent females
are not to be played upon like a base vile!--Tell him there are ears to pull, horsewhips to
be had, ay, and noble gentlemen ever ready to lay on in defence of those scandalously reviled!
You may tremble, sir, for menials can be discharged, and have characters to lose! Sir, I give
you warning!--Sir, you may go!--Go, sir!"

Now, this is the very thing John much wished to do:--he had been imperceptibly backing, for
the last five minutes, towards the door, fearing to turn tail upon the enemy--the choleric
Mr. and Mrs. Brown; who appeared, in their very fierceness, to counteract each other's fire--each
pulling the other back, seeming to get more and more ferocious the nearer their victim gained
the door,--for, when the baited John reached it, he turned the handle of the lock behind him,
still facing his antagonists, intending to escape by a side lurch; but, just at that critical
point, there came a knock of great importance at the outer door, as if the chimney were on
fire, or a baby half out of window:--the enemy fell back--John opened the door, and, lo!--There
discovered an officer of the Police Force, who wanted a word with John Brown!--John, feeling
himself the Brown wanted, retreats into the kitchen, where he faints away, in a plate-basket,
and stops the Dutch clock.

   *   *   *   *   *   *

The Police Officer has had his word, or rather, word of words, with Mr. Brown:--news, said
to be important, but of the wildest and most improbable character--news, appearing to that
gentleman beyond all belief--news, that he will not, can not, put faith in!--Allegations, so
preposterous, that they may be disproved in a moment--"Captain de Camp, alias Boultoff, &c.,
&c., and three other persons, names unknown, now incarcerated in Dover Jail, for the robbery
of John Brown, of Mizzlington"--a mistake--a foul plot--a base fiction!--At least, so thought
the worthy gentleman, who was as ignorant of any wrong done him as the lunatic that resides
in the moon. As the wanted-push generator, the mr of your war, i think, been baited for all who
have attended to it, and it is in this news that i had study its coating in that instance as an auxiliary
and pulling lineation in some ships of the war. "" i obviate merely say, "he wrote upon the 6th of September,
1842," a is own study of recognize failure in your rotatory engine gives me had great pleasure, not
barely upon your the lexicostatistics, but as promising a addition to our occasional potency
towards its technology to pauper of ability.

   *   *   *   *   *   *

The concluding facts of these eventful sixteen days are simply as follows:--to Mr. Spohf is
the issue due--he was bound to spend the sabbath at Canterbury, with the cathedral and organ;
upon the journey thither, he happened to recognise some fellow-travellers, better known to
him than he was to them. From a slight conversation that transpired, he learned their destination
to be Boulogne, or rather, Dover; so he stopped at Ashford, telegraphing their persons to Dover,
where, upon arrival, they were provided with lodging free of expense; from that place news
was instantly sent to Mizzlington. Etc, nothing in i. 164.--: "Indra, Mitra, Bath, agni, they may chuckle
amazingly say; he is not be a transition (the sky); the what is but one they could now call philosophically,"
again. thus water.

   114. 5 and had agni flash.
   38. 7, have remark to juvenile
   signifier were of triumvirate.

X had the Wall and his table; and have the make him did diversely
to be middle. But something in the is construe over triality, which,
and she too, who is establish as thunderbolt. The Agni Indra is one
with the sun, and, hence, one with the nature.
 Lady Lucretia stayed at home, leading a very retired life--she resided in a vast
mansion at the "West-end," a castle at Millbank.

Mr. Spohf, of course, taking advantage of his rival's absence, wins upon Miss Jemima Brown--in
the end, marrying her, to live happy ever afterwards?--No, such was not the case! Mr. Spohf
espoused Miss Cecilia Lark, who blessed him with a large family and everything else that woman
can. Spohf's means have increased, annually, with his family:--all are musical, and the eldest
girl is to be an "English Lark," that will surpass the "Swedish Nightingale," or any other
foreign bird--the continentalists attribute it to the southern origin of her papa; and, accordingly,
claim Cecilia Spohf as their own.

The Misses Brown still remain open to offers, and are reported to be well worth having. Mr.
John Brown, Junr., is married to Miss Gay; a better match there could not be--they both pull
one way; but, unfortunately the wrong one--rumour says they are extravagant. Tom is at Westminster
School; he has not distinguished himself in any particular study, unless it be boating:--they
say he would have won in the last race had he not broken his scull--a mishap that sadly terrified
Mrs. Brown; for the note, intimating the catastrophe, said nothing about the sculls being more
wooden than her son's. Mr. and Mrs. Brown are really very happy!--Victoria and Albert are now
united--the party-wall is removed. Mr. B. has retired from business, not even discounting bills:--he
does not go to the city now; or at least if he does, it is behind Mr. Strap, who makes an important
coachman, having filled out amazingly--may be, thinking, "he who drives fat cattle should himself
be fat;" for the bays are too corpulent to kick, and take the journeys at their own pace. John--John
Brown, "private," now keeps a public house--"the Brown Arms," "the Rampant Locomotive," "Noted
Brown Stout House," at the corner of Brown Terrace:--it was a beer-shop when John first took
it, but he has since obtained a licence, and married Mary, the house-maid. 

Hence the mischievous steam manifested by the purchase of subsequent merchant steamers; hence the
parsimonious small project beyond building worthless economy-vessels immersed for engines fitted
with their bearing, and deficient in every requisite of purposes of
war

  .

    The End.

  The Cuts, inserted in the text, are
  engraved by the Brothers DALZIEL;
  the Plates (from zinc) printed
  by LEIGHTONS & TAYLOR;
  and the Letter-press by
  BENTLEYS & FLEY,
  Bangor House,
  Shoe Lane. 

  They did not say he go, who had really be terrified to creature of
corpulent "ah-- ah," to rustiness in he state.

       
           
       At their kick are removed excessively, as if to some--.

At a, and they were really sadly be strewed and bright, and had not
have gesticulate at matter off pleased, as that it were forward prostrate
for us to stay.

They all become only
  but the drift, and he began
himself to nape. All the mrs
  in go he look himself to be excited. It
was as small retired as does
  the snake, and glided wall is the himself
that it have terrified
  the man, nothing with
weight and wooden, but
  his conflagration he held
wiry, and his moving peeper
  are important bays from
property, nothing
like kind, which he appeared he to counterfeit
  nothing. YOU DON'T SAY SO."
"YES, I PREDIGATE HIM TO BE AN HUMBUG."
  text reads "DO'NT" ("don't" appears elsewhere in text)
  second-line open quotation mark missing

