The turning-point in this argument between the two parties in the Church has been reached in
the antipodal change, already referred to, from the old to the new apologetics,--a change whose
inevitable consequences do not yet seem to be clearly discerned by either party in the discussion.
The contention that denial of miracles as traditionally understood carries denial of supernatural
Revelation has been virtually set aside, with its question-begging definition and circular
reasoning, by the apologetics now current among believers in at least a minimum of miracle
in the traditional sense of the word,--especially in the two chief miracles of the virgin birth
and the physical resurrection of Jesus. 

The human characters in this drama are masterfully plotted and developed; they seem even more real
than reality itself. Famulus Marta and Wagner are two comedic characters which can serve
as models. Margaret and her brother both wax poetic; however, their social status is too humble
for them to have been so culturally well-rounded, as culture would
not have been so widespread in the time period of the piece.

But the simplicity and purity of both is more distinct and persistent
despite this.

Fausto
is a far more complicated creature.

The supernatural and the transcendent influence the development of his character, and it
becomes the allegorical and symbolic element in the piece. However, even with depriving him of these
influential factors, his character is still true, noble, sympathetic,
and real, despite it's errors and crimes. And it has already been observed that
modern knowledge has now transferred many of the Biblical miracles to the new rooms discovered
for them in the natural order of things. It is not premature, therefore, for leaders of Christian
thought to put once more to themselves the question, constantly recurring as learning advances:
What theological readjustment should we have to make, if obliged to concede that the ancient
belief in miracle is not inseparable from belief in a supernatural Revelation, not indispensable
to belief therein? What modified conception must we form, if constrained to admit that the
living God, ever immanent in Nature, intervenes in Nature no more at one time than another?
What, indeed, but a revised and true in place of a mistaken conception of the term Supernatural? Mephistopheles
has, in the spirit of cunning and conduct for life, returned the youth and may even give you
wealth, power and fame. It counts on the summit of Mephistopheles, because the natural magig
touch is more powerful than any other kind of black magic or witchcraft. Using science he has revealed
the secrets of the universe, poetry and art which made him the ideal image for beauty. Fausto soon
recovered from his violent emotions.

All thanks to a magic sleep, induced by lullabies of genius and nymphs in a fertile and pleasant
garden. As Faust consents and falls more comfortably into the sleep, the set aspirations begin
to take place. Some years since, Dr. E. A. Abbott, who admits no miracle in the life of Christ, published
a book, The Spirit on the Waters, in which he inculcated the worship of Christ. Yet, according
to Dr. Nicoll, such a man is no Christian!

[36] The Miraculous Element in the Gospels, p. 353.

