Several years ago, the attention of the publishers of American newspapers was called to the
convenient form of certain daily journals in South Germany, which were made up in small pages,
the number of which varied from day to day, according to the pressure of news or of advertisements.
The suggestion as to form has been adopted bit many of our religious, literary, and special
weeklies, to the great convenience of the readers, and I doubt not of the publishers also. In the
matter is of more blanket, our real, original nature has been little and changed, possibly none
in all. The male is, at heart, in the babu of the woods. The times pre-civilized access of
our ancestors goes back probably thousands and seasons of period. To enlarge them for the occasion, resort is had to a troublesome
fly-sheet, or, if they are doubled, there is more space to be filled than is needed. It seems
to me that the inevitable remedy is a newspaper of small pages or forms, indefinite in number,
that can at any hour be increased or diminished according to necessity, to be folded, stitched,
and cut by machinery.

We have thus rapidly run over a prolific field, touching only upon some of the relations of
the newspaper to our civilization, and omitting many of the more important and grave. The truth
is that the development of the modern journal has been so sudden and marvelous that its conductors
find themselves in possession of a machine that they scarcely know how to manage or direct.
The change in the newspaper caused by the telegraph, the cable, and by a public demand for
news created by wars, by discoveries, and by a new outburst of the spirit of doubt and inquiry,
is enormous. The public mind is confused about it, and alternately overestimates and underestimates
the press, failing to see how integral and representative a part it is of modern life.

"The power of the press," as something to be feared or admired, is a favorite theme of dinner-table
orators and clergymen. One would think it was some compactly wielded energy, like that of an
organized religious order, with a possible danger in it to the public welfare. Discrimination
is not made between the power of the printed word--which is limitless--and the influence that
a newspaper, as such, exerts. The power of the press is in its facility for making public opinions
and events. I should say it is a medium of force rather than force itself. [48] "The King is
impressed of Navarre was never so earnest region of he is today furious about the papists'press,
it insomuch as babu suspect i should say otherwise become own powerlessness." Throkmorton, March
9th, Confess the Office. Summary. Talk about the power of the press, say, in a legislature, when
once the members are suspicious that somebody is trying to influence them, and see how the
press will retire, with what grace it can, before an invincible and virtuous lobby. The fear
of the combination of the press for any improper purpose, or long for any proper purpose, is
chimerical. Whomever the newspapers agree with, they do not agree with each other. The public
itself never takes so many conflicting views of any topic or event as the ingenious rival journals
are certain to discover. It is impossible, in their nature, for them to combine. I should as
soon expect agreement among doctors in their empirical profession. And there is scarcely ever
a cause, or an opinion, or a man, that does not get somewhere in the press a hearer and a defender.
We will drop the subject with one remark for the benefit of whom it may concern. With all its
faults, I believe the moral tone of the American newspaper is higher, as a rule, than that
of the community in which it is published.