"And if I had passed by without seeing you, you would have been out of doors all night, and
a wolf would have eaten you up."

"Oh, I knew very well that you would see me," answered Petit-Pierre, confidently.

"Well, kiss me now, bid me good-by, and run back quickly to the house, unless you wish them
to have supper without you."

"Are you not going to take me, then?" cried the little boy, beginning to rub his eyes to show
that he was thinking of tears.

"You know very well that grandpapa and grand-mama do not wish it," said Germain, fortifying
himself behind the authority of his elders, like a man who distrusts his own.

The child would not listen. He began to cry with all his might, saying that as long as his
father was taking little Marie, he might just as well take him too. They replied that they
must pass through great woods filled with wicked beasts who eat up little children. The gray
would not carry three people; she had said so when they were starting, and in the country where
they were going there was no bed and no supper for little boys. All these good reasons could
not persuade Petit-Pierre; he threw himself on the ground, and rolled about, shrieking that
his little father did not love him any more, and that if he did not take him he would never
go back to the house at all, day or night.

Germain had a father's heart, as soft and weak as a woman's. His-wife's death, and the care
which he had been obliged to bestow all alone on his little ones, as well as the thought that
these poor motherless children needed a great deal of love, combined to make him thus. So such
a sharp struggle went on within him, all the more because he was ashamed of his weakness and
tried to hide his confusion from little Marie, that the sweat started out on his forehead,
and his eyes grew red and almost ready to weep. At last he tried to get angry, but as he turned
toward little Marie in order to let her witness his strength of mind, he saw that the good
girls face was wet with tears; all his courage forsook him and he could not keep back his own,
scold and threaten as he would.

"Truly your heart is too hard," said little Marie at last, "and for myself I know that I never
could refuse a child who felt so badly. Come, Germain, let 's take him. Take him on the horse
in front of you. Besides, I should rather walk on foot all alone than give this little boy
so much pain."

"Never mind," answered Germain, who was dying to allow himself to give way. "The gray is strong,
and could carry two more if there were room on her back. But what can we do with this child
on the way? He will be cold and hungry, and who will take care of him to-night and tomorrow,
put him to bed, wash him, and dress him? I don't dare give this trouble to a woman I don't
know, who will think, doubtless, that I am exceedingly free and easy with her to begin with."

"Trust me, Germain, you will know her at once by the kindness or the impatience that she shows.
If she does not care to receive your Pierre, I will take charge of him myself. I will go to
her house and dress him, and I will take him to the fields with me to-morrow. I will amuse
him all day long, and take good care that he does not want for anything."

"He will tire you, my poor girl, and give you trouble. A whole day is a long time."

"Not at all; it will give me pleasure; he will keep me company, and that will make me less
sad the first day that I must pass in a new place. I shall fancy that I am still at home."

Seeing that little Marie was pleading for her, the child seized upon her skirt and held it
so tight that they must have hurt him in order to tear it away.

"Come along," said the young girl, lifting him in her arms; "let us try to quiet his poor little
heart. It is fluttering like a little bird; and if you feel the cold when night comes on, tell
me, my Pierre, and I will wrap you in my cape. Kiss your little father, and beg his pardon
for being naughty. 

With the above I think he left showed that the seduction scene between the Duchess and Ignacio,
far from being sinful is exemplary and uplifting. And let also shown that is not there today
so seductive duchess has increased corruption in a class society than others, and at the present
time in the past. The same corruption appears in time of the Pharaohs and repeated in Phaedra, in
Briolanja and the women empecatadas of which managed to win the three most glorious saints whom
we have cited. Does not imply more corruption, no need to attribute the author of the novel
more pessimistic, so that it justified vengeance by taking the Duchess Ignacio know their shame.
Almost all women of ancient times when they are more fiercely despised retaliate.

    Why poisons introduced If nature
    had Downs to kill?

What
    atrocities and heinous crimes do not make the heroine's devotion
to the Cross, the Catholic playwright irritated by us represents a
contempt not real, but imagined!

Driven by their passion Julia decides to commit and commit such crimes

Will spook the world Admiration of the times Horror at the same sin
And terror of hell.

    
    
    The revenge, then that
    takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is
a bargain when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances
of the sort.



When they had taken this precaution, Germain put the mare to a trot, and Petit-Pierre was so
overjoyed that for a time he forgot that he had gone without his dinner; but the motion of
the horse gave him a hollow feeling in his stomach, and at the end of a league, he began to
gape and grow pale, and confessed that he was dying of hunger.

"This is the way it begins," exclaimed Germain. "I was quite sure that we should not go far
without this young gentleman crying with hunger or thirst."

"I am thirsty, too!" said Petit-Pierre.

"Very well, then, let 's go to Mother Rebec's tavern at Corlay, the sign of 'The Dawn'--a pretty
sign, but a poor lodging. You will take something to drink, too, will you not, Marie?"

"No, no; I don't want anything. I will hold the mare while you go in with the child."

"But I remember, my good girl, that this morning you gave the bread from your own breakfast
to my Pierre. You have had nothing to eat. You would not take dinner with us at home; you would
do nothing but cry."

"Oh, I was not hungry; I felt too sad, and I give you my word that even now I have no desire
to eat."

"You must oblige yourself to eat, little girl, else you will fall sick. We have a long way
to go, and it will not do to arrive half-starved and beg for bread before we say how d' ye
do. I shall set you a good example myself, although I am not very hungry: and I am sure that
I can, for, after all, I did not eat any dinner. I saw you crying, you and your mother, and
it made me feel sad. Come along. I am going to tie the gray at the door. Get down; I wish you to."

All three entered the inn, and in less than fifteen minutes the fat, lame hostess was able
to place before them a nice-looking omelette, some brown bread, and a bottle of light wine.

Peasants do not eat quickly, and little Pierre had such a good appetite that a whole hour passed
before Germain could think of starting out again. At first little Marie ate in order to be
obliging; then little by little she grew hungry. For, at sixteen, a girl cannot fast for long,
and country air is dictatorial.

The kind words with which Germain knew how to comfort her and strengthen her courage, produced
their effect. She tried hard to persuade herself that seven months would soon be over, and
to think of the pleasure in store for her when she saw once more her family and her hamlet;
for Father Maurice and Germain had both promised to take her into their service. But just as
she began to cheer up and play with little Pierre, Germain was so unfortunate as to point out
to her from the inn window the lovely view of the valley which can all be seen from this height,
and which looks so happy and green and fertile.

Marie looked and asked if the houses of Belair were in sight.

"No doubt," said Germain, "and the farm, too, and even your house--see! that tiny gray spot
not far from Godard's big poplar, below the belfry."

"Ah, I see it," said the little girl; and then she began to cry.

"I ought not to have made you think of it," said Germain. "I can do nothing but stupid things
today. Come along, Marie; let 's start, and in an hour, when the moon rises, it will not be hot."

They resumed their journey across the great heath, and for fear of tiring the young girl and
the child by too rapid a trot, Germain did not make the gray go very fast. The sun had set
when they left the road to enter the wood.

Germain knew the way as far as Magnier, but he thought it would be shorter to avoid the Chantaloube
road and descend by Presles and La Sépulture, a route he was not in the habit of taking on
his way to the fair. He lost his way, and wasted more time before he reached the wood. 

Yes, however, the above is clearly evident. Would it not have better suited your purpose, if Ignacio
had fallen passionately in love with Miss Eulalia before marriage? This would better explain that
while it is improbable, bordering on impossible something happens to Ignacio that is similar
to what happens to the tenor, Fernando in the beautiful opera, La Favorita. Ignacio, to a lesser
extent feeble minded, a sleepwalker and absent minded, but in a sense, without finding out
what had happened, he is just as jealous of his honor in the aforementioned marriage to Eulalia.
And, here, far from lessening difficulties, in my opinion I feel it unnecessarily grows and multiplies
for you. It is enough the indiscretions of Eulalia are known to all of Madrid society. Besides,
why do you suppose that Eulalia is kept intimately adorned by such a man? Would it not have been
more prudent, that the novelist could suppose as he pleases, or that Eulalia had not received
such items, or that this was naturally and quietly revealed before
your wedding?

But, no sir. You insist that the business is strange and difficult to explain, and the wedding
you celebrate is in the end a premature escape that presents the appearance of a perfect
human being.

In light of what is happening and what you are saying, not just a few people of the high society to which
you belong, accuse you of deep pessimism, coated in dark immorality
and vices.

For which I see in the distance as your bad intentions. And, neither do I understand what is to be the
bad result, while the intention is to be good.

The truth is, more a very sad truth, that more noble and pure virtues ascend moral excellence. They
do not clearly demonstrate themselves as good, neither do they glow, if the vices, sins and evils
do not have a reason or cause for it. The virtue, we say, will be like
a cocoon that will never be a perfect flowering calyx, opening the petals
and scent the air with their fragrance. If the vice is without want,
and by contradiction, you should not intervene in the matter. The gray has but one idea in her head, and that
is to get home. It is she who is deceiving me. If we wish to go home, we have only to give
her the bit. But when we are perhaps but two steps from our journey's end, it would be foolish
to give up and return such a long road; and yet I am at a loss what to do. I cant see sky or
earth, and I am afraid that the child will catch the fever if we remain in this cursed fog,
or that he will be crushed beneath our weight if the horse falls forward."

"We must not persist longer," said little Marie. "Let 's dismount, Germain. Give me the child;
I can carry him perfectly well, and I know better than you how to keep the cloak from falling
open and leaving him exposed. You lead the mare by her bridle. Perhaps we shall see more clearly
when we are nearer the ground."

This precaution was of service only in saving them from a fall, for the fog hung low and seemed
to stick to the damp earth.

Their advance was painfully slow, and they were soon so weary that they halted when they reached
a dry spot beneath the great oaks.

Little Marie was in a violent sweat, but she uttered not a word of complaint, nor did she worry
about anything. Thinking only of the child, she sat down on the sand and laid it upon her knees,
while Germain explored the neighborhood, after having fastened the gray's reins to the branch
of a tree.

But the gray was very dissatisfied with the journey. She reared suddenly, broke the reins loose,
burst her girths, and giving, by way of receipt, half a dozen kicks higher than her head, she
started across the clearing, showing very plainly that she needed no one to show her the way home.

"Well, here we are afoot," said Germain, after a vain attempt to catch the horse, "and it would
do us no good now if we were on the good road, for we should have to ford the river on foot,
and since these paths are filled with water, we may be sure that the meadow is wholly submerged.
We don't know the other routes. We must wait until this fog clears. It can't last more than
an hour or two; as soon as we can see clearly, we shall look about for a house, the first we
come to near the edge of the wood. But for the present we can't stir from here. There is a
ditch and a pond over there. Heaven knows what is in front of us, and what is behind us is
more than I can say now, for I have forgotten which way we came."

VII -- Underneath the Big Oaks

"WELL, we must be patient, Germain," said little Marie. "We are not badly off on this little
hillock. The rain does not pierce the leaves of these big oaks, and we can light a fire, for
I can feel old stumps which stir readily and are dry enough to burn. You have a light, Germain,
have you not? You were smoking your pipe a few minutes ago."

"I did have; my tinderbox was in my bag on the saddle with the game that I was bringing to
my bride that is to be, but that devilish mare has run away with everything, even with my cloak,
which she will lose and tear to bits on every branch she comes to." "No, no, Germain; saddle
and cloak and bag are all there on the ground at your feet. The gray burst her girths, and
threw off everything as she ran away."

"That's true, thank God," exclaimed the laborer; "if we can grope about and find a little dead
wood, we shall be able to dry ourselves and get warm."

"That 's not difficult," said little Marie; "dead wood always cracks when you step on it. But
will you give me the saddle?"

"What do you want of it?"

"To make a bed for the child. No, not that way. Upside down. He will not roll off into the
hollow, and it is still very warm from the horse's back. Prop it up all around with the stones
that you see there."

"I can't see a stone; you must have cat's eyes."

"There, it is all done, Germain. Hand me your cloak so that you can wrap up his little feet,
and throw my cape over his body. Just see if he is not as comfortable as though he were in
his own bed, and feel how warm he is."

"You certainly know how to take care of children, Marie."

"I need not be a witch to do that; now get your tinderbox from your bag, and I will arrange
the wood."

"This wood will never catch fire; it is too damp."

