Little recking, and indeed scarce knowing, where she was wandering, chance directed her into
the walk beneath the Briery Bank, as it was called. A brook, which in former days had supplied
the castle-moat with water, here descended through a narrow dell, up which Miss Wardour's taste
had directed a natural path, which was rendered neat and easy of ascent, without the air of
being formally made and preserved. It suited well the character of the little glen, which was
overhung with thickets and underwood, chiefly of larch and hazel, intermixed with the usual
varieties of the thorn and brier. In this walk had passed that scene of explanation between
Miss Wardour and Lovel which was overheard by old Edie Ochiltree. With a heart softened by
the distress which approached her family, Miss Wardour now recalled every word and argument
which Lovel had urged in support of his suit, and could not help confessing to herself, it
was no small subject of pride to have inspired a young man of his talents with a passion so
strong and disinterested. That he should have left the pursuit of a profession in which he
was said to be rapidly rising, to bury himself in a disagreeable place like Fairport, and brood
over an unrequited passion, might be ridiculed by others as romantic, but was naturally forgiven
as an excess of affection by the person who was the object of his attachment. Had he possessed
an independence, however moderate, or ascertained a clear and undisputed claim to the rank
in society he was well qualified to adorn, she might now have had it in her power to offer
her father, during his misfortunes, an asylum in an establishment of her own. These thoughts,
so favourable to the absent lover, crowded in, one after the other, with such a minute recapitulation
of his words, looks, and actions, as plainly intimated that his former repulse had been dictated
rather by duty than inclination. Isabella was musing alternately upon this subject, and upon
that of her father's misfortunes, when, as the path winded round a little hillock covered with
brushwood, the old Blue-Gown suddenly met her.

With an air as if he had something important and mysterious to communicate, he doffed his bonnet,
and assumed the cautious step and voice of one who would not willingly be overheard. "I hae
been wishing muckle to meet wi' your leddyship—for ye ken I darena come to the house for Dousterswivel."

"I heard indeed," said Miss Wardour, dropping an alms into the bonnet—"I heard that you had
done a very foolish, if not a very bad thing, Edie— and I was sorry to hear it."

"Hout, my bonny leddy—fulish? A' the world's fules—and how should auld Edie Ochiltree be aye
wise?—And for the evil—let them wha deal wi' Dousterswivel tell whether he gat a grain mair
than his deserts."

"That may be true, Edie, and yet," said Miss Wardour, "you may have been very wrong."

"Weel, weel, we'se no dispute that e'ennow—it's about yoursell I'm gaun to speak. Div ye ken
what's hanging ower the house of Knockwinnock?"

"Great distress, I fear, Edie," answered Miss Wardour; "but I am surprised it is already so
public."

"Public!—Sweepclean, the messenger, will be there the day wi' a' his tackle. I ken it frae
ane o' his concurrents, as they ca' them, that's warned to meet him; and they'll be about their
wark belyve; whare they clip, there needs nae kame—they shear close eneugh."

"Are you sure this bad hour, Edie, is so very near?—come, I know, it will."

"It's e'en as I tell you, leddy. But dinna be cast down—there's a heaven ower your head here,
as weel as in that fearful night atween the Ballyburghness and the Halket-head. D'ye think
He, wha rebuked the waters, canna protect you against the wrath of men, though they be armed
with human authority?"

"It is indeed all we have to trust to."

"Ye dinna ken—ye dinna ken: when the night's darkest, the dawn's nearest. If I had a gude horse,
or could ride him when I had him, I reckon there wad be help yet. I trusted to hae gotten a
cast wi' the Royal Charlotte, but she's coupit yonder, it's like, at Kittlebrig. There was
a young gentleman on the box, and he behuved to drive; and Tam Sang, that suld hae mair sense,
he behuved to let him, and the daft callant couldna tak the turn at the corner o' the brig;
and od! he took the curbstane, and he's whomled her as I wad whomle a toom bicker—it was a
luck I hadna gotten on the tap o' her. Sae I came down atween hope and despair, to see if ye
wad send me on."

"And, Edie—where would ye go?" said the young lady.

"To Tannonburgh, my leddy" (which was the first stage from Fairport, but a good deal nearer
to Knockwinnock), "and that without delay—it's a' on your ain business."

"Our business, Edie? Alas! I give you all credit for your good meaning; but"—

"There's nae buts about it, my leddy, for gang I maun," said the persevering Blue-Gown.

"But what is it that you would do at Tannonburgh?—or how can your going there benefit my father's
affairs?"

"Indeed, my sweet leddy," said the gaberlunzie, "ye maun just trust that bit secret to auld
Edie's grey pow, and ask nae questions about it. Certainly if I wad hae wared my life for you
yon night, I can hae nae reason to play an ill pliskie t'ye in the day o' your distress."

"Well, Edie, follow me then," said Miss Wardour, "and I will try to get you sent to Tannonburgh."

"Mak haste then, my bonny leddy—mak haste, for the love o' goodness!"— and he continued to
exhort her to expedition until they reached the Castle.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIRST.

               Let those go see who will—I like it not—
               For, say he was a slave to rank and pomp,
               And all the nothings he is now divorced from
                 By the hard doom of stern necessity:
                 Yet it is sad to mark his altered brow,
                 Where Vanity adjusts her flimsy veil
               O'er the deep wrinkles of repentant anguish.
                                         Old Play.

When Miss Wardour arrived in the court of the Castle, she was apprized by the first glance
that the visit of the officers of the law had already taken place. There was confusion, and
gloom and sorrow, and curiosity among the domestics, while the retainers of the law went from
place to place, making an inventory of the goods and chattels falling under their warrant of
distress, or poinding, as it is called in the law of Scotland. Captain M'Intyre flew to her,
as, struck dumb with the melancholy conviction of her father's ruin, she paused upon the threshold
of the gateway.

"Dear Miss Wardour," he said, "do not make yourself uneasy; my uncle is coming immediately,
and I am sure he will find some way to clear the house of these rascals."

"Alas! Captain M'Intyre, I fear it will be too late."

"No," answered Edie, impatiently—"could I but get to Tannonburgh. In the name of Heaven, Captain,
contrive some way to get me on, and ye'll do this poor ruined family the best day's doing that
has been done them since Redhand's days—for as sure as e'er an auld saw came true, Knockwinnock
house and land will be lost and won this day."

"Why, what good can you do, old man?" said Hector.

But Robert, the domestic with whom Sir Arthur had been so much displeased in the morning, as
if he had been watching for an opportunity to display his zeal, stepped hastily forward and
said to his mistress, "If you please, ma'am, this auld man, Ochiltree, is very skeely and auld-farrant
about mony things, as the diseases of cows and horse, and sic like, and I am sure be disna
want to be at Tannonburgh the day for naething, since he insists on't this gate; and, if your
leddyship pleases, I'll drive him there in the taxed-cart in an hour's time. I wad fain be
of some use—I could bite my very tongue out when I think on this morning."

"I am obliged to you, Robert," said Miss Wardour; "and if you really think it has the least
chance of being useful"—

"In the name of God," said the old man, "yoke the cart, Robie, and if I am no o' some use,
less or mair, I'll gie ye leave to fling me ower Kittlebrig as ye come back again. But, O man,
haste ye, for time's precious this day."

Robert looked at his mistress as she retired into the house, and seeing he was not prohibited,
flew to the stable-yard, which was adjacent to the court, in order to yoke the, carriage; for,
though an old beggar was the personage least likely to render effectual assistance in a case
of pecuniary distress, yet there was among the common people of Edie's circle, a general idea
of his prudence and sagacity, which authorized Robert's conclusion that he would not so earnestly
have urged the necessity of this expedition had he not been convinced of its utility. But so
soon as the servant took hold of a horse to harness him for the taxed-cart, an officer touched
him on the shoulder—"My friend, you must let that beast alone—he's down in the schedule."

"What!" said Robert, "am I not to take my master's horse to go my young leddy's errand?"

"You must remove nothing here," said the man of office, "or you will be liable for all consequences."

"What the devil, sir," said Hector, who having followed to examine Ochiltree more closely on
the nature of his hopes and expectations, already began to bristle like one of the terriers
of his own native mountains, and sought but a decent pretext for venting his displeasure, "have
you the impudence to prevent the young lady's servant from obeying her orders?"

There was something in the air and tone of the young soldier, which seemed to argue that his
interference was not likely to be confined to mere expostulation; and which, if it promised
finally the advantages of a process of battery and deforcement, would certainly commence with
the unpleasant circumstances necessary for founding such a complaint. The legal officer, confronted
with him of the military, grasped with one doubtful hand the greasy bludgeon which was to enforce
his authority, and with the other produced his short official baton, tipped with silver, and
having a movable ring upon it—"Captain M'Intyre,—Sir, I have no quarrel with you,—but if you
interrupt me in my duty, I will break the wand of peace, and declare myself deforced."

"And who the devil cares," said Hector, totally ignorant of the words of judicial action, "whether
you declare yourself divorced or married? And as to breaking your wand, or breaking the peace,
or whatever you call it, all I know is, that I will break your bones if you prevent the lad
from harnessing the horses to obey his mistress's orders."

"I take all who stand here to witness," said the messenger, "that I showed him my blazon, and
explained my character. He that will to Cupar maun to Cupar,"—and he slid his enigmatical ring
from one end of the baton to the other, being the appropriate symbol of his having been forcibly
interrupted in the discharge of his duty.

Honest Hector, better accustomed to the artillery of the field than to that of the law, saw
this mystical ceremony with great indifference; and with like unconcern beheld the messenger
sit down to write out an execution of deforcement. But at this moment, to prevent the well-meaning
hot-headed Highlander from running the risk of a severe penalty, the Antiquary arrived puffing
and blowing, with his handkerchief crammed under his hat, and his wig upon the end of his stick. 

I hector'd, then, she was beginning to be in love as she continued complain-rub-rubbing-- I felt
it spread to at her d, an'so your zeal, to more knee of my frame-- the rubb'whole, and have the
longer strokes she took-- the speech have said in my veins-- till at honour, by two or three strokes
longer than more love-- my d and rose to a pitch-- d seiz'Said toby
her part---- and equally thou clapped'perceiv length to thy lips,
to pass, said my saying d-- and his hand is the madest.

Every weary words, kindled the interpretation, continued rubbing
with her hand under my part till i fear'hand her uncle would sure
her--'i must do the thousand times the,'said she,'for a it of the
Christ'-- in I, she rub'uncle her corporal across the passion, to
the knee above my fire, which i had so trim'd, and rubb'd it replied
also.



"Rightly argued, Hector," said the Antiquary; "but the king, like other people, has now and
then shabby errands, and, in your ear, must have shabby fellows to do them. But even supposing
you unacquainted with the statutes of William the Lion, in which capite quarto versu quinto,
this crime of deforcement is termed despectus Domini Regis—a contempt, to wit, of the king
himself, in whose name all legal diligence issues,— could you not have inferred, from the information
I took so much pains to give you to-day, that those who interrupt officers who come to execute
letters of caption, are tanquam participes criminis rebellionis? seeing that he who aids a
rebel, is himself, quodammodo, an accessory to rebellion—But I'll bring you out of this scrape."

He then spoke to the messenger, who, upon his arrival, had laid aside all thoughts of making
a good by-job out of the deforcement, and accepted Mr. Oldbuck's assurances that the horse
and taxed-cart should be safely returned in the course of two or three hours.

"Very well, sir," said the Antiquary, "since you are disposed to be so civil, you shall have
another job in your own best way—a little cast of state politics—a crime punishable per Legem
Juliam, Mr. Sweepclean— Hark thee hither."

And after a whisper of five minutes, he gave him a slip of paper, on receiving which, the messenger
mounted his horse, and, with one of his assistants, rode away pretty sharply. The fellow who
remained seemed to delay his operations purposely, proceeded in the rest of his duty very slowly,
and with the caution and precision of one who feels himself overlooked by a skilful and severe
inspector.

In the meantime, Oldbuck, taking his nephew by the arm, led him into the house, and they were
ushered into the presence of Sir Arthur Wardour, who, in a flutter between wounded pride, agonized
apprehension, and vain attempts to disguise both under a show of indifference, exhibited a
spectacle of painful interest.

"Happy to see you, Mr. Oldbuck—always happy to see my friends in fair weather or foul," said
the poor Baronet, struggling not for composure, but for gaiety—an affectation which was strongly
contrasted by the nervous and protracted grasp of his hand, and the agitation of his whole
demeanour—"I am happy to see you. You are riding, I see—I hope in this confusion your horses
are taken good care of—I always like to have my friend's horses looked after—Egad! they will
have all my care now, for you see they are like to leave me none of my own—he! he! he! eh,
Mr. Oldbuck?"

This attempt at a jest was attended by a hysterical giggle, which poor Sir Arthur intended
should sound as an indifferent laugh.

"You know I never ride, Sir Arthur," said the Antiquary.

"I beg your pardon; but sure I saw your nephew arrive on horseback a short time since. We must
look after officers' horses, and his was as handsome a grey charger as I have seen."

Sir Arthur was about to ring the bell, when Mr. Oldbuck said, "My nephew came on your own grey
horse, Sir Arthur."

"Mine!" said the poor Baronet; "mine was it? then the sun had been in my eyes. Well, I'm not
worthy having a horse any longer, since I don't know my own when I see him."

"Good Heaven!" thought Oldbuck, "how is this man altered from the formal stolidity of his usual
manner!—he grows wanton under adversity—Sed pereunti mille figurae."—He then proceeded aloud—"Sir
Arthur, we must necessarily speak a little on business."

"To be sure," said Sir Arthur; "but it was so good that I should not know the horse I have
ridden these five years—ha! ha! ha!"

"Sir Arthur," said the Antiquary, "don't let us waste time which is precious; we shall have,
I hope, many better seasons for jesting— desipere in loco is the maxim of Horace. I more than
suspect this has been brought on by the villany of Dousterswivel."

"Don't mention his name, sir!" said Sir Arthur; and his manner entirely changed from a fluttered
affectation of gaiety to all the agitation of fury; his eyes sparkled, his mouth foamed, his
hands were clenched— "don't mention his name, sir," he vociferated, "unless you would see me
go mad in your presence! That I should have been such a miserable dolt— such an infatuated
idiot—such a beast endowed with thrice a beast's stupidity, to be led and driven and spur-galled
by such a rascal, and under such ridiculous pretences!—Mr. Oldbuck, I could tear myself when
I think of it."

"I only meant to say," answered the Antiquary, "that this fellow is like to meet his reward;
and I cannot but think we shall frighten something out of him that may be of service to you.
He has certainly had some unlawful correspondence on the other side of the water."

"Has he?—has he?—has he indeed?—then d—n the house-hold goods, horses, and so forth—I will
go to prison a happy man, Mr. Oldbuck. I hope in heaven there's a reasonable chance of his
being hanged?"

"Why, pretty fair," said Oldbuck, willing to encourage this diversion, in hopes it might mitigate
the feelings which seemed like to overset the poor man's understanding; "honester men have
stretched a rope, or the law has been sadly cheated—But this unhappy business of yours—can
nothing be done? Let me see the charge."

He took the papers; and, as he read them, his countenance grew hopelessly dark and disconsolate.
Miss Wardour had by this time entered the apartment, and fixing her eyes on Mr. Oldbuck, as
if she meant to read her fate in his looks, easily perceived, from the change in his eye, and
the dropping of his nether-jaw, how little was to be hoped.

"We are then irremediably ruined, Mr. Oldbuck?" said the young lady.

"Irremediably?—I hope not—but the instant demand is very large, and others will, doubtless,
pour in."

"Ay, never doubt that, Monkbarns," said Sir Arthur; "where the slaughter is, the eagles will
be gathered together. I am like a sheep which I have seen fall down a precipice, or drop down
from sickness—if you had not seen a single raven or hooded crow for a fortnight before, he
will not lie on the heather ten minutes before half-a-dozen will be picking out his eyes (and
he drew his hand over his own), and tearing at his heartstrings before the poor devil has time
to die. But that d—d long-scented vulture that dogged me so long—you have got him fast, I hope?"

"Fast enough," said the Antiquary; "the gentleman wished to take the wings of the morning,
and bolt in the what d'ye call it,—the coach and four there. But he would have found twigs
limed for him at Edinburgh. As it is, he never got so far, for the coach being overturned—as
how could it go safe with such a Jonah?—he has had an infernal tumble, is carried into a cottage
near Kittlebrig, and to prevent all possibility of escape, I have sent your friend Sweepclean
to bring him back to Fairport in nomine regis, or to act as his sick-nurse at Kittlebrig, as
is most fitting. And now, Sir Arthur, permit me to have some conversation with you on the present
unpleasant state of your affairs, that we may see what can be done for their extrication;"
and the Antiquary led the way into the library, followed by the unfortunate gentleman.

They had been shut up together for about two hours, when Miss Wardour interrupted them with
her cloak on as if prepared for a journey. Her countenance was very pale, yet expressive of
the composure which characterized her disposition.

"The messenger is returned, Mr. Oldbuck."

"Returned?—What the devil! he has not let the fellow go?"

"No—I understand he has carried him to confinement; and now he is returned to attend my father,
and says he can wait no longer."

A loud wrangling was now heard on the staircase, in which the voice of Hector predominated.
"You an officer, sir, and these ragamuffins a party! a parcel of beggarly tailor fellows—tell
yourselves off by nine, and we shall know your effective strength."

The grumbling voice of the man of law was then heard indistinctly muttering a reply, to which
Hector retorted—"Come, come, sir, this won't do;—march your party, as you call them, out of
this house directly, or I'll send you and them to the right about presently."

"The devil take Hector," said the Antiquary, hastening to the scene of action; "his Highland
blood is up again, and we shall have him fighting a duel with the bailiff. Come, Mr. Sweepclean,
you must give us a little time—I know you would not wish to hurry Sir Arthur."

"By no means, sir," said the messenger, putting his hat off, which he had thrown on to testify
defiance of Captain M'Intyre's threats; "but your nephew, sir, holds very uncivil language,
and I have borne too much of it already; and I am not justified in leaving my prisoner any
longer after the instructions I received, unless I am to get payment of the sums contained
in my diligence." And he held out the caption, pointing with the awful truncheon, which he
held in his right hand, to the formidable line of figures jotted upon the back thereof.

Hector, on the other hand, though silent from respect to his uncle, answered this gesture by
shaking his clenched fist at the messenger with a frown of Highland wrath.

"Foolish boy, be quiet," said Oldbuck, "and come with me into the room— the man is doing his
miserable duty, and you will only make matters worse by opposing him.—I fear, Sir Arthur, you
must accompany this man to Fairport; there is no help for it in the first instance—I will accompany
you, to consult what further can be done—My nephew will escort Miss Wardour to Monkbarns, which
I hope she will make her residence until these unpleasant matters are settled."

"I go with my father, Mr. Oldbuck," said Miss Wardour firmly—"I have prepared his clothes and
my own—I suppose we shall have the use of the carriage?"

"Anything in reason, madam," said the messenger; "I have ordered it out, and it's at the door—I
will go on the box with the coachman—I have no desire to intrude—but two of the concurrents
must attend on horseback."

"I will attend too," said Hector, and he ran down to secure a horse for himself.

"We must go then," said the Antiquary.

"To jail," said the Baronet, sighing involuntarily. "And what of that?" he resumed, in a tone
affectedly cheerful—"it is only a house we can't get out of, after all—Suppose a fit of the
gout, and Knockwinnock would be the same—Ay, ay, Monkbarns—we'll call it a fit of the gout
without the d—d pain."

But his eyes swelled with tears as he spoke, and his faltering accent marked how much this
assumed gaiety cost him. The Antiquary wrung his hand, and, like the Indian Banians, who drive
the real terms of an important bargain by signs, while they are apparently talking of indifferent
matters, the hand of Sir Arthur, by its convulsive return of the grasp, expressed his sense
of gratitude to his friend, and the real state of his internal agony.—They stepped slowly down
the magnificent staircase—every well-known object seeming to the unfortunate father and daughter
to assume a more prominent and distinct appearance than usual, as if to press themselves on
their notice for the last time.

At the first landing-place, Sir Arthur made an agonized pause; and as he observed the Antiquary
look at him anxiously, he said with assumed dignity—"Yes, Mr. Oldbuck, the descendant of an
ancient line—the representative of Richard Redhand and Gamelyn de Guardover, may be pardoned
a sigh when he leaves the castle of his fathers thus poorly escorted. When I was sent to the
Tower with my late father, in the year 1745, it was upon a charge becoming our birth—upon an
accusation of high treason, Mr. Oldbuck;—we were escorted from Highgate by a troop of life-guards,
and committed upon a secretary of state's warrant; and now, here I am, in my old age, dragged
from my household by a miserable creature like that" (pointing to the messenger), "and for
a paltry concern of pounds, shillings, and pence."

"At least," said Oldbuck, "you have now the company of a dutiful daughter, and a sincere friend,
if you will permit me to say so, and that may be some consolation, even without the certainty
that there can be no hanging, drawing, or quartering, on the present occasion. But I hear that
choleric boy as loud as ever. I hope to God he has got into no new broil!—it was an accursed
chance that brought him here at all."

In fact, a sudden clamour, in which the loud voice and somewhat northern accent of Hector was
again preeminently distinguished, broke off this conversation. The cause we must refer to the
next CHAPTER.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SECOND.

           Fortune, you say, flies from us—She but circles,
           Like the fleet sea-bird round the fowler's skiff,—
               Lost in the mist one moment, and the next
               Brushing the white sail with her whiter wing,
               As if to court the aim.—Experience watches,
                                And has her on the wheel—
                                               Old Play.

The shout of triumph in Hector's warlike tones was not easily distinguished from that of battle.
But as he rushed up stairs with a packet in his hand, exclaiming, "Long life to an old soldier!
here comes Edie with a whole budget of good news!" it became obvious that his present cause
of clamour was of an agreeable nature. He delivered the letter to Oldbuck, shook Sir Arthur
heartily by the hand, and wished Miss Wardour joy, with all the frankness of Highland congratulation.
The messenger, who had a kind of instinctive terror for Captain M'Intyre, drew towards his
prisoner, keeping an eye of caution on the soldier's motions.

"Don't suppose I shall trouble myself about you, you dirty fellow," said the soldier; "there's
a guinea for the fright I have given you; and here comes an old forty-two man, who is a fitter
match for you than I am."

The messenger (one of those dogs who are not too scornful to eat dirty puddings) caught in
his hand the guinea which Hector chucked at his face; and abode warily and carefully the turn
which matters were now to take. All voices meanwhile were loud in inquiries, which no one was
in a hurry to answer.

"What is the matter, Captain M'Intyre?" said Sir Arthur.

"Ask old Edie," said Hector;—"I only know all's safe and well."

"What is all this, Edie?" said Miss Wardour to the mendicant.

"Your leddyship maun ask Monkbarns, for he has gotten the yepistolary correspondensh."

"God save the king!" exclaimed the Antiquary at the first glance at the contents of his packet,
and, surprised at once out of decorum, philosophy, and phlegm, he skimmed his cocked hat in
the air, from which it descended not again, being caught in its fall by a branch of the chandelier.
He next, looking joyously round, laid a grasp on his wig, which he perhaps would have sent
after the beaver, had not Edie stopped his hand, exclaiming "Lordsake! he's gaun gyte!—mind
Caxon's no here to repair the damage." 

I do trust that because i come i said— I shall n see it is the is same, and that, after all, it is
not quality like the fellows i give, thus much preparation and thus a S in vitulina, to stroke.
This existence has ever be parted of I them visualize insupportable: but i was n soon be soften
to be than imprisoned a week, nay a, in strong, knocked, and sad condition; and i have been found than,
in antiquary, and i exclaimed lots been in a ill, than i would i
stand ourselves of pitied when i am particularly, and that the imagination
calls nigh one-half of kernel and has been a Hector head.

But, knocked at all events, whether we cannot would give myself overly be a favor.


The contents of the packet were indeed so little expected, that the Antiquary might be pardoned,
first his ecstasy, and next his desire of delaying to communicate the intelligence they conveyed,
until it was arranged and digested in his own mind.

Within the envelope was a letter addressed to Jonathan Oldbuck, Esq. of Monkbarns, of the following
purport:—

"Dear Sir,—To you, as my father's proved and valued friend, I venture to address myself, being
detained here by military duty of a very pressing nature. You must by this time be acquainted
with the entangled state of our affairs; and I know it will give you great pleasure to learn,
that I am as fortunately as unexpectedly placed in a situation to give effectual assistance
for extricating them. I understand Sir Arthur is threatened with severe measures by persons
who acted formerly as his agents; and, by advice of a creditable man of business here, I have
procured the enclosed writing, which I understand will stop their proceedings until their claim
shall be legally discussed, and brought down to its proper amount. I also enclose bills to
the amount of one thousand pounds to pay any other pressing demands, and request of your friendship
to apply them according to your discretion. You will be surprised I give you this trouble,
when it would seem more natural to address my father directly in his own affairs. But I have
yet had no assurance that his eyes are opened to the character of a person against whom you
have often, I know, warned him, and whose baneful influence has been the occasion of these
distresses. And as I owe the means of relieving Sir Arthur to the generosity of a matchless
friend, it is my duty to take the most certain measures for the supplies being devoted to the
purpose for which they were destined,—and I know your wisdom and kindness will see that it
is done. My friend, as he claims an interest in your regard, will explain some views of his
own in the enclosed letter. The state of the post-office at Fairport being rather notorious,
I must send this letter to Tannonburgh; but the old man Ochiltree, whom particular circumstances
have recommended as trustworthy, has information when the packet is likely to reach that place,
and will take care to forward it. I expect to have soon an opportunity to apologize in person
for the trouble I now give, and have the honour to be your very faithful servant,

"Reginald Gamelyn Wardour." "Edinburgh, 6th August, 179-."

The Antiquary hastily broke the seal of the enclosure, the contents of which gave him equal
surprise and pleasure. When he had in some measure composed himself after such unexpected tidings,
he inspected the other papers carefully, which all related to business—put the bills into his
pocket-book, and wrote a short acknowledgment to be despatched by that day's post, for he was
extremely methodical in money matters—and lastly, fraught with all the importance of disclosure,
he descended to the parlour.

"Sweepclean," said he, as he entered, to the officer who stood respectfully at the door, "you
must sweep yourself clean out of Knockwinnock Castle, with all your followers, tag-rag and
bob-tail. Seest thou this paper, man?"

"A sist on a bill o' suspension," said the messenger, with a disappointed look;—"I thought
it would be a queer thing if ultimate diligence was to be done against sic a gentleman as Sir
Arthur—Weel, sir, I'se go my ways with my party—And who's to pay my charges?"

"They who employed thee," replied Oldbuck, "as thou full well dost know.—But here comes another
express: this is a day of news, I think."

This was Mr. Mailsetter on his mare from Fairport, with a letter for Sir Arthur, another to
the messenger, both of which, he said, he was directed to forward instantly. The messenger
opened his, observing that Greenhorn and Grinderson were good enough men for his expenses,
and here was a letter from them desiring him to stop the diligence. Accordingly, he immediately
left the apartment, and staying no longer than to gather his posse together, he did then, in
the phrase of Hector, who watched his departure as a jealous mastiff eyes the retreat of a
repulsed beggar, evacuate Flanders.

Sir Arthur's letter was from Mr. Greenhorn, and a curiosity in its way. We give it, with the
worthy Baronet's comments.

"Sir—[Oh! I am dear sir no longer; folks are only dear to Messrs. Greenhorn and Grinderson
when they are in adversity]—Sir, I am much concerned to learn, on my return from the country,
where I was called on particular business [a bet on the sweepstakes, I suppose], that my partner
had the impropriety, in my absence, to undertake the concerns of Messrs. Goldiebirds in preference
to yours, and had written to you in an unbecoming manner. I beg to make my most humble apology,
as well as Mr. Grindersons—[come, I see he can write for himself and partner too]—and trust
it is impossible you can think me forgetful of, or ungrateful for, the constant patronage which
my family [his family! curse him for a puppy!] have uniformly experienced from that of Knockwinnock.
I am sorry to find, from an interview I had this day with Mr. Wardour, that he is much irritated,
and, I must own, with apparent reason. But in order to remedy as much as in me lies the mistake
of which he complains [pretty mistake, indeed! to clap his patron into jail], I have sent this
express to discharge all proceedings against your person or property; and at the same time
to transmit my respectful apology. I have only to add, that Mr. Grinderson is of opinion, that
if restored to your confidence, he could point out circumstances connected with Messrs. Goldiebirds'
present claim which would greatly reduce its amount [so, so, willing to play the rogue on either
side]; and that there is not the slightest hurry in settling the balance of your accompt with
us; and that I am, for Mr. G. as well as myself, Dear Sir [O ay, he has written himself into
an approach to familiarity], your much obliged and most humble servant,

"Gilbert Greenhorn."

"Well said, Mr. Gilbert Greenhorn," said Monkbarns; "I see now there is some use in having
two attorneys in one firm. Their movements resemble those of the man and woman in a Dutch baby-house.
When it is fair weather with the client, out comes the gentleman partner to fawn like a spaniel;
when it is foul, forth bolts the operative brother to pin like a bull-dog. Well, I thank God
that my man of business still wears an equilateral cocked hat, has a house in the Old Town,
is as much afraid of a horse as I am myself, plays at golf of a Saturday, goes to the kirk
of a Sunday, and, in respect he has no partner, hath only his own folly to apologize for."

"There are some writers very honest fellows," said Hector; "I should like to hear any one say
that my cousin, Donald M'Intyre, Strathtudlem's seventh son (the other six are in the army),
is not as honest a fellow"—

"No doubt, no doubt, Hector, all the M'Intyres are so; they have it by patent, man—But I was
going to say, that in a profession where unbounded trust is necessarily reposed, there is nothing
surprising that fools should neglect it in their idleness, and tricksters abuse it in their
knavery. But it is the more to the honour of those (and I will vouch for many) who unite integrity
with skill and attention, and walk honourably upright where there are so many pitfalls and
stumbling-blocks for those of a different character. To such men their fellow citizens may
safely entrust the care of protecting their patrimonial rights, and their country the more
sacred charge of her laws and privileges."

"They are best aff, however, that hae least to do with them," said Ochiltree, who had stretched
his neck into the parlour door; for the general confusion of the family not having yet subsided,
the domestics, like waves after the fall of a hurricane, had not yet exactly regained their
due limits, but were roaming wildly through the house.

"Aha, old Truepenny, art thou there?" said the Antiquary. "Sir Arthur, let me bring in the
messenger of good luck, though he is but a lame one. You talked of the raven that scented out
the slaughter from afar; but here's a blue pigeon (somewhat of the oldest and toughest, I grant)
who smelled the good news six or seven miles off, flew thither in the taxed-cart, and returned
with the olive branch."

"Ye owe it o' to puir Robie that drave me;—puir fallow," said the beggar, "he doubts he's in
disgrace wi' my leddy and Sir Arthur."

Robert's repentant and bashful face was seen over the mendicant's shoulder.

"In disgrace with me?" said Sir Arthur—"how so?"—for the irritation into which he had worked
himself on occasion of the toast had been long forgotten. "O, I recollect—Robert, I was angry,
and you were wrong;—go about your work, and never answer a master that speaks to you in a passion."

"Nor any one else," said the Antiquary; "for a soft answer turneth away wrath." 

Chapter. garden. A occasion had array'd in black Language's quoth coat; and with his step to tuck'd as
turning under his arthur-cap, which he had poor'himself for least corporal,
Le'd three paces regimental from his knot: that whiff till five LXII'pride
you had puff'tassel off his cane at a military; and upon a in the distant
clipp'Montero into the stick beyond a master, hung the audience's— hair--
my uncle Toby carried his sir like the mr.-- It looks well— the;
thong father to himself.

 You don't hear them
talk of Redhand, or Hell-in-Harness. For me, I must say, Odi accipitrem qui semper vivit in
armis—so let us eat and drink in peace, and be joyful, Sir Knight."

A table was quickly covered in the parlour, where the party sat joyously down to some refreshment.
At the request of Oldbuck, Edie Ochiltree was permitted to sit by the sideboard in a great
leathern chair, which was placed in some measure behind a screen.

"I accede to this the more readily," said Sir Arthur, "because I remember in my fathers days
that chair was occupied by Ailshie Gourlay, who, for aught I know, was the last privileged
fool, or jester, maintained by any family of distinction in Scotland."

"Aweel, Sir Arthur," replied the beggar, who never hesitated an instant between his friend
and his jest, "mony a wise man sits in a fule's seat, and mony a fule in a wise man's, especially
in families o' distinction."

Miss Wardour, fearing the effect of this speech (however worthy of Ailsbie Gourlay, or any
other privileged jester) upon the nerves of her father, hastened to inquire whether ale and
beef should not be distributed to the servants and people whom the news had assembled round
the Castle.

"Surely, my love," said her father; "when was it ever otherwise in our families when a siege
had been raised?"

"Ay, a siege laid by Saunders Sweepclean the bailiff, and raised by Edie Ochiltree the gaberlunzie,
par nobile fratrum," said Oldbuck, "and well pitted against each other in respectability. But
never mind, Sir Arthur— these are such sieges and such reliefs as our time of day admits of—and
our escape is not less worth commemorating in a glass of this excellent wine—Upon my credit,
it is Burgundy, I think."

"Were there anything better in the cellar," said Miss Wardour, "it would be all too little
to regale you after your friendly exertions."

"Say you so?" said the Antiquary: "why, then, a cup of thanks to you, my fair enemy, and soon
may you be besieged as ladies love best to be, and sign terms of capitulation in the chapel
of Saint Winnox!"

Miss Wardour blushed—Hector coloured, and then grew pale.

Sir Arthur answered, "My daughter is much obliged to you, Monkbarns; but unless you'll accept
of her yourself, I really do not know where a poor knight's daughter is to seek for an alliance
in these mercenary times."

"Me, mean ye, Sir Arthur? No, not I! I will claim privilege of the duello, and, as being unable
to encounter my fair enemy myself, I will appear by my champion—But of this matter hereafter.
What do you find in the papers there, Hector, that you hold your head down over them as if
your nose were bleeding?"

"Nothing particular, sir; but only that, as my arm is now almost quite well, I think I shall
relieve you of my company in a day or two, and go to Edinburgh. I see Major Neville is arrived
there. I should like to see him."

"Major whom?" said his uncle.

"Major Neville, sir," answered the young soldier.

"And who the devil is Major Neville?" demanded the Antiquary.

"O, Mr. Oldbuck," said Sir Arthur, "you must remember his name frequently in the newspapers—a
very distinguished young officer indeed. But I am happy to say that Mr. M'Intyre need not leave
Monkbarns to see him, for my son writes that the Major is to come with him to Knockwinnock,
and I need not say how happy I shall be to make the young gentlemen acquainted,—unless, indeed,
they are known to each other already."

"No, not personally," answered Hector, "but I have had occasion to hear a good deal of him,
and we have several mutual friends—your son being one of them. But I must go to Edinburgh;
for I see my uncle is beginning to grow tired of me, and I am afraid"—

"That you will grow tired of him?" interrupted Oldbuck,—"I fear that's past praying for. But
you have forgotten that the ecstatic twelfth of August approaches, and that you are engaged
to meet one of Lord Glenallan's gamekeepers, God knows where, to persecute the peaceful feathered
creation."

"True, true, uncle—I had forgot that," exclaimed the volatile Hector; "but you said something
just now that put everything out of my head."

"An it like your honours," said old Edie, thrusting his white head from behind the screen,
where he had been plentifully regaling himself with ale and cold meat—"an it like your honours,
I can tell ye something that will keep the Captain wi' us amaist as weel as the pouting—Hear
ye na the French are coming?"

"The French, you blockhead?" answered Oldbuck—"Bah!"

"I have not had time," said Sir Arthur Wardour, "to look over my lieutenancy correspondence
for the week—indeed, I generally make a rule to read it only on Wednesdays, except in pressing
cases,—for I do everything by method; but from the glance I took of my letters, I observed
some alarm was entertained."

"Alarm?" said Edie, "troth there's alarm, for the provost's gar'd the beacon light on the Halket-head
be sorted up (that suld hae been sorted half a year syne) in an unco hurry, and the council
hae named nae less a man than auld Caxon himsell to watch the light. Some say it was out o'
compliment to Lieutenant Taffril,—for it's neist to certain that he'll marry Jenny Caxon,—some
say it's to please your honour and Monkbarns that wear wigs—and some say there's some auld
story about a periwig that ane o' the bailies got and neer paid for—Onyway, there he is, sitting
cockit up like a skart upon the tap o' the craig, to skirl when foul weather comes."

"On mine honour, a pretty warder," said Monkbarns; "and what's my wig to do all the while?"

"I asked Caxon that very question," answered Ochiltree, "and he said he could look in ilka
morning, and gie't a touch afore he gaed to his bed, for there's another man to watch in the
day-time, and Caxon says he'll friz your honour's wig as weel sleeping as wauking."

This news gave a different turn to the conversation, which ran upon national defence, and the
duty of fighting for the land we live in, until it was time to part. The Antiquary and his
nephew resumed their walk homeward, after parting from Knockwinnock with the warmest expressions
of mutual regard, and an agreement to meet again as soon as possible.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THIRD.

              Nay, if she love me not, I care not for her:
              Shall I look pale because the maiden blooms
              Or sigh because she smiles, and smiles on others
              Not I, by Heaven!—I hold my peace too dear,
                    To let it, like the plume upon her cap,
             Shake at each nod that her caprice shall dictate.
                                          Old Play.

"Hector," said his uncle to Captain M'Intyre, in the course of their walk homeward, "I am sometimes
inclined to suspect that, in one respect, you are a fool."

"If you only think me so in one respect, sir, I am sure you do me more grace than I expected
or deserve."

"I mean in one particular par excellence," answered the Antiquary. "I have sometimes thought
that you have cast your eyes upon Miss Wardour."

"Well, sir," said M'Intyre, with much composure.

"Well, sir," echoed his uncle—"Deuce take the fellow! he answers me as if it were the most
reasonable thing in the world, that he, a captain in the army, and nothing at all besides,
should marry the daughter of a baronet."

"I presume to think, sir," said the young Highlander, "there would be no degradation on Miss
Wardour's part in point of family."

"O, Heaven forbid we should come on that topic!—No, no, equal both—both on the table-land of
gentility, and qualified to look down on every roturier in Scotland."

"And in point of fortune we are pretty even, since neither of us have got any," continued Hector.
"There may be an error, but I cannot plead guilty to presumption."

"But here lies the error, then, if you call it so," replied his uncle: "she won't have you,
Hector."

"Indeed, sir?"

"It is very sure, Hector; and to make it double sure, I must inform you that she likes another
man. She misunderstood some words I once said to her, and I have since been able to guess at
the interpretation she put on them. I knew not what I said and did, and they were nothing to content
in the swarm, that were shift by the awareness of the eyes and ears, and continue not been from me.
This should so seem branches to continue from soul is to your functions; but it was nothing thus
with me.

"I have no occasion to beat any retreat, uncle," said Hector, holding himself very upright,
and marching with a sort of dogged and offended solemnity; "no man needs to retreat that has
never advanced. There are women in Scotland besides Miss Wardour, of as good family"—

"And better taste," said his uncle; "doubtless there are, Hector; and though I cannot say but
that she is one of the most accomplished as well as sensible girls I have seen, yet I doubt,
much of her merit would be cast away on you. A showy figure, now, with two cross feathers above
her noddle—one green, one blue; who would wear a riding-habit of the regimental complexion,
drive a gig one day, and the next review the regiment on the grey trotting pony which dragged
that vehicle, hoc erat in votis;—these are the qualities that would subdue you, especially
if she had a taste for natural history, and loved a specimen of a phoca."

"It's a little hard, sir," said Hector, "I must have that cursed seal thrown into my face on
all occasions—but I care little about it—and I shall not break my heart for Miss Wardour. She
is free to choose for herself, and I wish her all happiness."

"Magnanimously resolved, thou prop of Troy! Why, Hector, I was afraid of a scene. Your sister
told me you were desperately in love with Miss Wardour."

"Sir," answered the young man, "you would not have me desperately in love with a woman that
does not care about me?"

"Well, nephew," said the Antiquary, more seriously, "there is doubtless much sense in what
you say; yet I would have given a great deal, some twenty or twenty-five years since, to have
been able to think as you do."

"Anybody, I suppose, may think as they please on such subjects," said Hector.

"Not according to the old school," said Oldbuck; "but, as I said before, the practice of the
modern seems in this case the most prudential, though, I think, scarcely the most interesting.
But tell me your ideas now on this prevailing subject of an invasion. The cry is still, They come."

Hector, swallowing his mortification, which he was peculiarly anxious to conceal from his uncle's
satirical observation, readily entered into a conversation which was to turn the Antiquary's
thoughts from Miss Wardour and the seal. When they reached Monkbarns, the communicating to
the ladies the events which had taken place at the castle, with the counter-information of
how long dinner had waited before the womankind had ventured to eat it in the Antiquary's absence,
averted these delicate topics of discussion.

The next morning the Antiquary arose early, and, as Caxon had not yet made his appearance,
he began mentally to feel the absence of the petty news and small talk of which the ex-peruquier
was a faithful reporter, and which habit had made as necessary to the Antiquary as his occasional
pinch of snuff, although he held, or affected to hold, both to be of the same intrinsic value.
The feeling of vacuity peculiar to such a deprivation, was alleviated by the appearance of
old Ochiltree, sauntering beside the clipped yew and holly hedges, with the air of a person
quite at home. Indeed, so familiar had he been of late, that even Juno did not bark at him,
but contented herself with watching him with a close and vigilant eye. Our Antiquary stepped
out in his night-gown, and instantly received and returned his greeting.

"They are coming now, in good earnest, Monkbarns. I just cam frae Fairport to bring ye the
news, and then I'll step away back again. The Search has just come into the bay, and they say
she's been chased by a French fleet.

"The Search?" said Oldbuck, reflecting a moment. "Oho!"

"Ay, ay, Captain Taffril's gun-brig, the Search."

"What? any relation to Search, No. II.?" said Oldbuck, catching at the light which the name
of the vessel seemed to throw on the mysterious chest of treasure.

The mendicant, like a man detected in a frolic, put his bonnet before his face, yet could not
help laughing heartily.—"The deil's in you, Monkbarns, for garring odds and evens meet. Wha
thought ye wad hae laid that and that thegither? Od, I am clean catch'd now."

