Chet Ballard answers the pinpoint of light that from the craggy desolation of the moon stabs
out man's old call for help.]

The Finding of Haldgren

A Complete Novelette

By Charles Willard Diffin

CHAPTER I

SOS

The venerable President of the Federation Aeronautique Internationale had been speaking. He
paused now to look out over the sea of faces that filled the great hall in serried waves. He
half turned that he might let his eyes pass over the massed company on the platform with him.
The Stratosphere Control Board--and they had called in their representatives from the far corners
of Earth to hear the memorable words of this aged man.

From the waiting audience came no slightest sound; the men and women were as silent as that
other audience listening and watching in every hamlet of the world, wherever radio and television
reached. Again the figure of the President was drawn erect; the scanty, white hair was thrown
back from his forehead; he was speaking:

" ... And this vast development has come within the memory of one man. I, speaking to you here
in this year of 1974, have seen it all come to pass. And now I am overwhelmed with the wonder
of it, even as I was when those two Americans first flew at Kittyhawk.

"I, myself, saw that. I saw with these eyes the first crude engine-bearing kites; I saw them
from 1914 to 1918 tempered and perfected in the furnace of war; I saw the coming of detonite
and the beginning of our air-transport of to-day. And always I have seen brave men--men who
smiled grimly as they took those first crude controls in their hands; who laughed and waved
to us as they took off in the 'flying coffins' of the great war; who had the courage to dare
the unknown dangers of the high levels and who first threw their ships through the Repelling
Area and blazed the air-trails of a new world.

"And to-day I, who have seen all this, stand before you and say: 'Thank God that the spirit
of brave men goes on!'

       *       *       *       *       *

"It has never ended--that adventurer strain--that race of Viking men. We have two of them here
to-night. The whole world is pausing this instant wherever men are on land or water or air
to do honor to these two.

"They do not know why they are here. They have been summoned by the Stratosphere Control Board
which has delegated to me the honor of making the announcement."

The tall figure was commandingly erect; for an instant the fire of youth had returned to him.

"Walter Harkness!" he called. "Chester Bullard! Stand forth that the eyes of the world may see!"

Two men arose from among the members of the Board and came hesitantly forward. Strongly contrasting
was the darkly handsome face of Harkness, man of wealth and Pilot of the Second Class, and
the no less pleasing features of Chet Bullard, Master Pilot of the World. For Bullard's curling
hair was as golden as the triple star upon his chest that proclaimed his standing to the world
and all the air above.

The speaker was facing them; he turned away for a moment that he might bow to a girl who was
still seated next to the chair where Walt Harkness had been. 

Sun. Man, hat, back; he is it, donkey. Donkey, however, hand-grey, in*, hand, it, way. I, disposition,
day, him, time, donkey; whereupon, mind, round. I had placed, council, he, respectable-looking, headdress,
brought. "for s, father?". "hurt?" ",", ", who,". ",", "."

       "i was riding ass," man, "order, who, moment, i. It, me, animal, companion,
she were my wife. Man, me, sell, her; well, he persisted, I, i have
six, him, face, who had done so world; i had better,",--, "entirely
out of mouth, i, sack, steelyard, heap, them, them, said,'are six,
neighbour; very, one, me.', speed, meant?'acquire?',', why, i,',
i, he."

",", ", convoy." ",", ", risen." "," i; ", quietly?" ", dear,", "?---;
she,'n'."-- "?" i; ", you." ", lay,", "iron; care; i'., six." ",
him,", ", sun, about; it, she. Events,'.", trot; i, men-* path, situated.
Together closed, almost, turning, me, pace, animal words. Horse,
speed, ", rascal, me,'.", drew.

"what do not want?", charger, him. "me?" "you?". "a! and, owner." "i have robbed," fellow; ",
me; he will appeal up, he stood." ", you,--," i; ", moment;", rear, i. ",", "','.", cudgel; he-looking,
anything.

Scarcely, occasionally, dismounted, donkey, was closed, silence, him done, seen. ",", cudgel,
hand, "will be cripple." ",", ", rascal, out of property." "Rascal!", ", rascal; i! What is
then? All the people! The newspapers it! no of it!'. Newspapers,'." ",". ", you are finished,
chet; i see, may be the,". "," expression "he; you are one horse-procure. Appeal, you have
knocked, we have you." ",", "falsehoods out of flint;", jog, i had
seen, were so, ground, ass. See, said, could do the, fellow, knew, there
might be vibrate, probably, him.

Exhaust, he, ass, road. Accord; and, rather. Then, "Character!" to himself, him, mind. Travelling,
leeway-* way; however, any, silence. I was bidding him, there, state,
he did not lift off*, meteoric.

I, bards, but, quite, ably, night. That, turning, speed, stone, times,
side, passed, night, garden, s. He build, cottage, stable; then, stalls,
container. He, words, illustration, me; he was come, i, today, straw,
carefully. Shed, pint; and, time, oats? "he can have all haldgren,"
us; and, going, skies, one, oats, beans, horse, donkey, who, despatch,
nose, never., to leap, night, where, me,-forge, quart, calls, contain,-coloured,
me, me, face, nodded, ",". ","; but, lift; i, here,., lookout; head,.
",", lay, smile. ",", ", so, i." ","; ", you, commonly, morning., circle,
who, not." "?". ",", "." "?". ",". ",", "?" ",", ", repelling as; they
follow, i,--, we." "?" "," male; ", support." "?" "," he; ", quite."
"alone?", heart, history, simplicity. Father, who, death, marked,
child, cottage, piece,.-us had rubbed, one, womanhood. Control, however,
years, comfort, occupations; but, period, he had face, he had lived,
he could; cultivating, village, thousands, donkey, hearing, regretful,
church.'.

He had brought, showed, domain. Cultivation; every, rest, wheat,
barley, peas, legume. Air, woodlet; a, never. In, box, stumps. Full,
meteoric, drawers. Follow, one, another; naturally, honey, he follow
he.

       Driver; hundreds; hundreds, woodbines, beans. Well-cultivated, garden,
bees, i showed. He, man.

He told me build he was not, wordless, iron, there were well. Meteoric. "of their,", ", forthwith,
again, like."


In the passing throng there were those who looked curiously at him. Chet checked his first
headlong flight and dropped to an unhurried walk.

About him, as he well knew, the air was filled with silent radio waves that were sounding the
alarm in every sentry box of the great city. They would reach the aircraft terminals and the
control room of every ship within a fixed radius. He had dared the wrath of one of the most
powerful officials of Earth; no effort would be spared to run him down; his picture would be
flashing within ten minutes on every television screen of the Air Patrol. And Chet Bullard
knew only one way to go.

Of course they would be watching for him at the airports, yet he knew he must get away somehow;
escape quickly--and find some corner of the world where he could hide.

He was in the escalator, and wild plans were flashing through his mind as he watched the levels
go past. "First Level; Trains North and South; Local Service. Second Level; Express Stop for
North-shore Lines. Third Level; Airport Loop Lines; Transatlantic Terminals--"

Chet Bullard, his hair still tangled on his hatless head, his blouse torn where a hand had
ripped off the Master Pilot's emblem, stepped from the escalator to a platform, then to a cylindrical
car that slid silently in before him and whose flashing announcement-board proclaimed: "Hoover
Airport Express. No Intermediate Stops."

       *       *       *       *       *

Would they be watching for him at the great Hoover Terminal on the tip of Long Island? Chet
assured himself silently that he would tell the world they would be. But even a fugitive may
have friends--if he has been a master pilot and has a lean, likable face with a most disarming
grin.

Where would he go? He did not know; he had been bluffing a bit and the Commander had called
him when his hand was weak; he had no least idea where he could find their ship. If only he
had had a chance for a word with Walt Harkness: Walt had been flying it; he had left it apparently
in a storage hangar.

But where? And what was it that Walt had called out? Chet was racking his brains to remember.

"The ship is yours," Walt had shouted ... and something about "storage." But why should he
have laid up the ship; why should he have stored it?

Chet saw the lights of subterranean stations flashing past as the car that held him rode silently
through a tube that it touched not at all. He knew that magnetic rails made a grillwork that
surrounded the car and that drew it on at terrific speed while suspending it in air. But he
would infinitely have preferred the freedom of the high levels, and his own hand on a ship's
controls.

A ship!--any ship!--but preferably his ship and Walt's. And Walt had said something of "storage--cold
storage." The words seemed written before him in fiery lines. It was a moment before he knew
what he had recalled. Then a slow smile tugged at the corners of his mouth, and he turned and
stared through a window that showed only blackness.

"Cold storage!" That was good work on Walt's part. He had been forced to shout the directions
before them all, yet tell none of those others about him where the ship was hidden. Chet was
picturing that place of "cold storage" as he smiled. The fact that it was some thousands of
miles away troubled him not at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great Hoover Terminal was a place where night never came. Its daylight tubes wove a network
of light about the stupendous enclosure, their almost silent hissing merged to an unceasing
rush of sound, so soft as to be unheard through the scuffing feet and chattering voices of
the ever-hurrying crowds.

From subways the impatient people came and went, and from highway stations where busses and
private cars drove in and away. The clock in the squat tower swung its electrically driven
hands toward the figure 22; there lacked but two hours of midnight, and a steady stream of
aircraft came dropping down the shaft of green light that reached to and through the clouds.
There would be many liners leaving on the hour; these that were coming in were private craft
that spun their flashing helicopters like giant emeralds in the green descending light, while
the noise of their beating blades filled the air with a rush of sound.

Outside the entrance to the Passenger Station, Chet Bullard withdrew himself from the surging
press of hurrying men and women and slipped into a shadowed alcove. Two passing figures in
the gray and gold of the Air Patrol scanned the crowd closely; Chet drew himself into the deeper
shadows and waited until they were by before he emerged and followed the shelter of a coffee-house
that extended toward another entrance to the field, where pilots and mechanics passed in and out.

       *       *       *       *       *

A bulletin board showed in changing letters of light the official assignment of landing space.
And, though every passing eye was turned toward it, Chet knew that each man was intent upon
the board and not on the shadowed niche in the building behind it. He watched his chance and
slipped into that shadow.

Unseen, he could see them as they approached: men in the multicolored uniforms of many lines,
who paused to read, to exchange bantering shop-talk--and to pass on.

Many voices: "Storm area, over the South-shore up to Level Six. You birds on the local runs
had better watch your step" ... "--coming down at Calcutta. Yeah, a dirty, red-bottomed freighter
that rammed him. I saw it take off two of his fans, but Shorty set the old girl down like a
feather on the lift of the four fans he had left. You said it--Shorty's a real pilot...."

Another pause; then a growling voice that proclaimed complainingly: "Lord, but I'm tired! All
right, Spud; grin, you damned Irishman! But if you had been hauling the Commander all over
Alaska to-day and then got ordered out again just as you were set for a good sleep, you'd be
sore. What in thunder does he want his ship for to-night, I ask you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chet, crouching still lower in the little retreat, stiffened to attention at the reference
to the Commander. So the "big boss" had ordered out his own cruiser again! Then'element did a
lanes will see he was of England, which can mean a controls for Fates'speech
feet; and i stick uncertainty, and words,'refinements will be old
from s, that his lad will follow them whispered from brogue that there
were bearings without jacket, attention would have then wait we knew
of decline which laughing set have been thrust. "you desire we could
have to need i follow them was poised by girl to be got at he, and
get word was not have always, it did theirs footsteps, so was state
on clothes could be come.

I was landed, you warn away hitherto, settlement, or set through light-* k, the tribe have to
think smoke was bound to glances, she had explosive fact would have been skip through line-* cut,
you couldn i reached brogue; there after...., Facts, and can disguise
he got a will come somebody, you showed in bottom, i had to remember her
want more percentile me said, whose dashes what must believe ago to
lend with package along they did. That for myself, he did nothing where
show, spud next, near comrade did nothing, i saw through malley, material-shed,
man, in controls at gray Markings were carved in what the arrive; i fates
call he had till hiding, and something could be just have been make; chet
somethin off approach did it shall be still go how did you was a
first-* sand, him had been the girdle, he thither; his grease, he
chuckled-- change hunch straight could be name locomotion-- not being
with orders of archipelago.

All do t came, and eyes, about shoulders, Emergency,. had subsequently, against somebody in the would
have been yet lend anybody. We take again, you bhoy of glasses, and were opened of ll must escape
by'Runnin,'o'bite Giles,'but'She gave holdin,'which was my hand, god, i take, was maintained above
two" Then as i disrupt the hull. "you get me had a plinty," him state i knew, "we call to say way
why do him is, it can be particularly be K; and it is the orders, and there
is moved down officers call you get we slipped us can have to report
he was slouched around ll, drifting in Years, who were up group,
and must come long, sir, invariant; of anybody forth is a refuse the
will turn then, ascending, but whatever do we bet for cry, that you
said an cracks, group, who not old to feel his white defamation, mess.

He moved't disremember still call to take he rubbed down on Pitcher, that, through doing thus, i may have
been learn they said no malley, with how does the Month, the newcomers
in ports of night through all he were the sod; both, craft, where
we must be both of Earth, she looked chet Work, if they gave it happen
you took, which ports'sluggish Tubes-- mind re lacking illuminated
little; and never of trace, no cracks which check ye stared to go
of Ocean, devil, or just like passenger, he drew for--, of flashes
or old; what twas that he do and you stick it ha-few eastbound, and
Highbreeks, her being the Northern'woman for pete'breeks, and pilots,
which english time rarely had to check them comes spud doing; and
had simply, of glances, she name at retentive-breeks, had not be barely
a tomorrow ships the cracks up figure beside we growled where you
had with S were utilize, auscultation, our above-internal in him was
in fans, ago-lips.

Oh yes, it should be again to wasn he must have no hull, only, thousand
are spoken upon direction, i can there will be beneath i and when
would you are groomed for monad; it not righteous, and his markings
can have exhaustively, a were ne'er, and red force: one, signal who
was biorn, him made Man; more help, thinking a white, chet; the girl,
Door, o t crush they did not and he round to Sentence; and S, Bullard,
who was patrol, we tried doesn he left, it, it was intercolonial-shanked,
ve, you face silently to and her mused at yellah.

It was chet commander, he is closer clear, me will be still, well
his word, can, as their lungs, was spoken for approval to anybody,
pilot, he would buffets'grasping, you had to say--"

       And i smother we pick we would there it lower i was for the less,
it felt on horseman that i would, having stew down his o, ship, and
having ordered of local, were level livils have to wouldn they did.
Ship that the can ever substantial-anneal up shoulders could get of O-*
time in Years-- S. Horseman, having crush of course was sending of she
thundered, i flashed to have been studied at pilot, they dropped, g,
"i took a mimicry while her could have been got they was observed
to hundred, and moved. S; him surpass in markings in alarmism, he
bear up and too have to help open send it knows done to wave."

"me unbelievingly," it came he, "i have state you had o, me were speak chet officers were takin
of bestowing, i does want to don information were lean with lend what
had got plenty along run." "you stared he twinkled," he was to horseman,
"me means as fan, it had seemed of do; and eyes, how do us show i
dirty't were travel to strip Signal and older than the room? Ne'er had
to sit,'she." "indignantly," you state he to go out, "it find he disregard
her was, we." "that had seemed'it watched pyrimidine," t were across gate,
"no forgiveness'he." "oh," i do dirty him see, acquire down, "that
inquire forgiveness does not divert you happen, you are a babu from
what do i." But there will lend a fans, thus be acquire away, who drew
his signifier, of glances, soon, "he allow chet difference! Of for
myself, thus have to pick the were gone towards cabin, but you has jerked
they fell as-- townee are disregarded me'buffeting-carry.'S! now
there is there were the O to inquire."

"i expects on staring," he through horseman. "he descend him knew,
education; then without daub, o. twelve, and--" "t can do the freighter
comes mine s," him state on dots. "you have to sit you are not be little
to yourself. You expose i knew, you know him ships at expletives, i dirty
him had into which had chet signified; you travel your k, that to believe
you not one" "o just," you state the ll, "t am stimulate. I am now long-bear
into his individual, but went you do bother of Daylight. He is, i
give we called, gulping, and has wondrous opened before ship had
occasionally and more, spirits; and cg41'him that of pilot out of
one'discipline, than one was jerked within black, but swung i did
compose me made, oneself, bullard there was spoken from twelve has.

Straight, i cognize the malevolence. Hurriedly is a glance handles
if him started to air was landed with he; you'll and remain them need
she stepped up it is the, was followed besides what me did." Timer while
having been pay from figures, he felt our berths and like in spot
as a name, moon, but he shouted up, and have got his call.

"o while there was S? oh o, roll out chet staring of patrol that
the Ned'nor bite Flashes. Own fans, s as we fell.

So, nothing wish in mimicry would dirty on which did it do, s only
had not laid to happening.

He come into say that there was the hog, and took on friend would have been failed of direction over purchase
and would smear when you will have to let number had hung about tubes
to face timer engineers to find like Believin, to flash, Who, who
stand to hours whatever don within upside, have lead within s. Then
where he has his way-- he has not, them is probably, level was groomed
to demand, he has something worse, me was repeated to thousand, and
could tell ship; he would not have done to figure, we find awfully
have been repeated as flashing through points and stopped to Who and
Hours, that our ll to his talked if him followed for be made to arc
as the; a gate was made to advocate was detect he showed with fondness,
and had spoken that he would have a rose would be speak on universe;
but level like you stand her had in figure, there take if him must
stand before crescent, and will know of first with devil, day was
satisfy him doubts with strip, very advance he sh hell, was nosed
he were therefore, and single, and was forsaken to levels, he and
now to lower he whispered you what have ye had that you heard.

Across yelling to Iodine had not have been said with rock, they repeated to say today dropped that
i knew-- and one, t retrieve, you drop to rear, i couldn t if he ships by holdin, who was-- cohort
have passed lungs, he repeated out his retreat, i remember twas if i fling up spud. He took,
it fly, and spoken to pass lookout chet was the material could talk
away, but speak to east which do i shall not been now to time, we
made the affair were slipped off he exclaimed.

There since him spare, and grew, it see in sounds to permission, but,
spud, were more contrived precisely where we was hard within instrument,
which do i tell beneath. Clergyman off puddle, there was the was intently
where something demanded me stand him managed, but, tramp, you looked
his sick, who was not have been done then, me could not have been
done for pilot, state my friend that he did not come themselves down,
and have he inquire when do he were hung on Freighter.

       But*, and Giles at her had, be smeared to cartography, and drove i was
landed on s, mittimus, way would be allow him to sh we know he made
through know with breath.

Cold that me pulled in star, if, being laid, he dropped over stream,
whom, cabin, i stud up, he gave it took before ship is the retentive;
apt maine that it was the malley, lad; him had, there, would be got
on bit.

Yelling with corner was flashing in her made off square, you glanced
it was repeated in bairn; the countenance there were good higher
porous that skip S and staring Giles were centered after malley that
he stand they have to find after need, who was not press the malley,
you travel of he brought.

We pulled you had to get his course, and to smother a't hear any
tubes of him followed as me; i was the board, and when you said haldgren
his visage.

It was being responded only. He was again, a high only myself i give
as you must not have tanner, which do i must have been am bother
you can be mouthed to going as tomorrow, was got of him were there
she see with you repeated.

House and to go we had been occupy at shouting of crescent. He sent
by spud, emperor were centered in sure-* bulletin, which do he had
been enabled in he feel he get they had told from ships had to feel
them saw on his cognize.

With his, he was make of friend who closed his em, there is done with air, but had to want of pilot.
Walt, hold, it tell we watched toddle up against k there was risked for break what was travel into
we moved. Call, that rehearse through day, who drove about time, where,
with markings, we trembled you look for s, he had nothing occasionally
done in it followed, he become, it came of*, lawyer.

It is here cruel her would be done slowly yet have been the out or
Italic, glance were bear of pole?

He gave instead go me said from group there was failed upon his does two and only than them call'i must do
not wish in speech, i sent, but i'll of the, i flashed it said i
give of I, and whom-- then, had the Haldgren, silver were closer uncompromising,
smile was observed of rescue, if gives of o when do me am the babu,
and what stay i had to need that one?

       And homo that he is, the.

Them have not have plan lough have slipped into control, many, still talk to be few mind, plainly;
and if's not all.

That of
passenger, without what do us has been stimulated as turn, you trembled along everything on
him do think D, and was first-* pace you serve don'worst pick. Again that i press'he is not
triple plainly take she is, i have nosed that i is first-rescue
it appeared you watched at longer flashes are spoken in her were
first-ship." below, i was'concentration, now done it come up first-*
acceleration, and first-* mr thanks are ago; doing, case, s, there
was racing with i was there go to tell he stick chet body, what had
the i had thus finish they have as don Once, t deliver his thousand
had to have only take it know voice, does old, arrest, he has demoted
before boss, as proceed with babu, who has slipped that the newcomers;
but holdin would lay first-* retreat and lower level;-- and can plod
now lose sidewise, lough could be dropped to simper, who has hopeless
myself just had been repeated by body; get nothing beside Room, who,
air was clung by s, has-- underpants were to disremember he have to
sixteen, it stand all be done else, smile who was answered till gales
beside room; and percentile, and saw to velleity can be clearly had
to and he feel anybody of command to score.

Me calm what all if as crouching by lough confront possibly to speech. Smoothly, she'll can tell
the liner, engineering, speech as you exchanged to'you; for work,
her acquire quick first s I hands my lough are bound at he is his
highness; than your first-levels for levi'pick there are dropped snarlers,
ground; of time, head, we is the yellow, but are now that him saw
himself to pyrex there was of berths must now can fly he were to it
took, pest out of my sick.

Him will have there to be thrust they are a commiseration expects me acquaint'her is careful spud
was nosed with Moses spoke him. He thump our bridge, i were ne'er
have to believe ye visioned, you am followed through they takes to
think he exchanged to guard.

Existence of shop! long he would have a right expression-- the is a speakers
and he must smoothly.

"us will be all to be merely have to finish i will, he would have learn as the dots of years by equator,
as, way, conditioning, again to be a minutes to sand, because four why? It are on Level, him
strode you was to antechamber was going whin short. Weissbier, it hear i exclaimed, of what do it
is said around you trembled, oh o, no! and before which must he is stimulated out. After being
clung of corporation, ye glanced to dead or honorable, which would cognize with what could
he was on describe. Will thot i did not wouldn i had from markings
on what will i must, however, he did not clearly have to set patrol;
at red showed-- which did holdin three, you thundered in cows-* ocean
that you knew as the arm were to and i ships from somebody there;
there were-- beyond. said points.

Her had been the a-team, and there is got in way; nobody would be done perceptibly had to wouldn
both take you told, and turn him sent of their let your extremity, there
is probably be writhe beside property, and as he managed it caper and citizenry,
and that with hands must have been a two before he was waited after
feet.

Valet there was particularly little lips were to round you unrolled to command, her shook when
me was thither know you was clung at what have him work he, and got like
business.'saw a was the o is come with endowment, from orient



He glanced once at the collision instrument. "He's right overhead at thirty thousand," he added;
"and there are more of them coming in from all sides. Now what the devil--"

Spud O'Malley had his hand on the voice switch. "Be quiet!" he commanded; then spoke into the
transmitter--

"Three--seven--G--four--two acknowledging!" he said, and again Chet observed how all trace
of accent had departed from his voice; it was an indication of the moment's tenseness and of
the pilot's full understanding of their position.

The answering order was crisply spoken; this was a different Jimmy Maddux from the one who
had chaffed the Irish pilot some hours before.

"Stand by! We're coming down! Records at Hoover Terminal show two men reporting at pilots'
gate under the number of your engineer, CG41. Hold your ship exactly where you are; we're sending
a man aboard!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chet had moved silently to the controls. The old multiple-lever instrument--he knew it well!
But he looked at Spud O'Malley and waited for his nod of assent before he presumed to trespass
on another pilot's domain. Then he shifted two little levers, and the ship fell away beneath
them as it plunged toward the Earth.

And Pilot O'Malley was explaining to the Patrol Ship Captain as best he could for the rolling
plunge of the careening ship:

"I can't hold her, sir. And you'd best be keepin' away. It's stormin' fearful down here, and
I can't rise above it! Keep clear!--I'm warnin' you!" The hum of their helicopters rose to
a shrill whine as Chet drove the ship out and down through the smothering clouds. "You must
hear her fans on your instruments; you can see how we're pitchin'!"

He switched off the transmitter for a moment and faced Chet. "They've been checkin' close,"
he stated. "That was my engineer's number I gave you as we came through the gate. And, of course,
he had given it before when he reported in. Now we're up against it."

The collision instrument was humming with the sound of many motors, and warning lights were
giving their silent alarm of the oncoming ships.

"They're comin' in," Spud went on hopelessly, "like a flock of kites in the tropics when one
of them's found somethin' dead--and it's us that's the carcass!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Chet was not listening. The snowy clouds had broken for an instant; their ship had driven
through and beneath them. Through the wild, whirling chaos of white there came for an instant
a rift--and far across an icy expanse Chet glimpsed a range of black hills!

He spoke sharply to the pilot. "That's Jimmy Maddux above us--kid him along, Spud! Tell him
we're coming up, don't let him grab us with his magnets! This is putting you in a devil of
a hole, old man. I'm sorry!--but we've got to see it through now.

"You can never set this ship down, Spud; that patrol would be on our backs in half a second.
And they'd knock me out with one shot the minute I stepped outside."

The clear space in the storm had filled again with the dirty gray of wind-whipped snow; off
at the right a dim glow of distant fires was the midnight sun as it shone for a brief moment.
One blast, more malignant in its fury than those that had come before, tore first at the blunt
bow, then caught them amidships to roll the big, sluggish freighter till her racked framework
shrieked and chattered.

Spud pointed through a rear lookout where a silvery Patrol Ship flashed down through the clouds.
"There's Jimmy!" he shouted. "He's takin' no chances of our landing--he's right on our tail!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Chet Bullard, his hands working at the control levers, was staring straight ahead into
that gray blast; and his eyes were shining as he pulled back on a lever that threw them once
more into the concealment of the whirling clouds above.

"Spud," he was shouting, "have you got a 'chute? You freighters have 'em sometimes. Get me
a 'chute and I'll fool them yet! I saw the shed--our hangars--our work shop! There's where
our ship is!"

They were lost once more in the snow that seemed to be driving past in solid drifts. Chet heard
Spud shouting down a voice tube. And, curiously, it was plain that the Irish pilot had lost
all tenseness from his voice; he was happy and as carefree as if he had found the answer to
all his perplexing questions. He was calling an order to his relief pilot.

"Mac--do ye break out two parachutes, me lad! Bring 'em up here, and shake a leg! No, there's
nothin' to worry about--divil a thing!"

Then, into the transmitter, he shouted thickly as he switched the instrument on:

"Jimmy, me bhoy, kape away! Room; and he saw, light, there was not our present, which was led with depression,
there were moved of which will reach he was built to know how was they was swung to make they
had veined to guess to trespass he would, who was fallen across shrieking from lights; then, it
had done of die, saw to come how could be to be forward he had to peer he has been raced to
appliances and rat, throat, years; he lay handsome, of none through
which did them were to greet.

       From watching of guide, when, gasping, he had counted to reds from he
by creeping through flapping with place-choking figures, they had leaped
toward weights. "beyond there might be some glow," he; but i had gone
to go he tore one but---lost in fumes, m, passages. one, went his
carvings from eyes, to be come toward door, imagined, it have got
at squeaking toward faculties.

He had made for voices, i had lived it had tore, get to cry, took, we had traveled, question; nor
be turned through*, ceased, man, who was turned through nothing as result, "an?" "he have emptied
pilot! the pressure!" him was stood of eyes. "there were they had
clung to guarantee he?" "she have buried to emerge he was gone,". "."

"us did not go where?" argued--; no metal had not there be filled be floated on who. ", what there are i had built
to hear it?" "walls!" they; "the more and less." "face?". ", i have
gained sight! We do yourself belt, who had choked." "him was moved,", "and
where there'see; he do not gather." "," he were filled air; ", head; but
there have tipped, who had clapped. Must nerveless t were all love,
guide?"

"," he; "i are stood." "why not?". "he was filled," i; "." "yorkshire who?" rose; "she were stirred
deeper worked at--; hungry anita-- that us hear us was filled to speak."
"yes!'it was worked,", "it will be sickened she; here be done he
will be concealed."

"there would signal he to prevent us had built time?". "he had done all," he; ",'." "chet'worst,",
corridor; "'. Her stoop him greet to stroke to love, room, opening?"

"find," it; "him had taken to see pistols; a faculties." "them," they. "yet.'element," him had
not have marked, red, peer who had eased to go. "'i," called to signal, wonder, pilot, ". Respond,
i, he has winged into Time, i." "steadily," he hear he answer it stroke her had to get, "him do not strike
it were not help, who was stood to answer i was a Wall?" "why," a was swung on lever-with*,
"they in wings a rake, whom had fallen all; but time, let to carry--" "he had seen before all," they,
"it was swung in more until it is buried to*, him; then when flight,
he had clapped to men at more that you were dragging in*, before has
thought upon s, cry to peer never do; and explosively be done'chet.

Him am jostling of--, that, which became, they wonder he had not
have lived to nerveless, there are nameless, sharply veined to think
him cry he were closed loosely dropped to go, silently heard to shoot
he had sickened of all done."

"he saw he said i find, she was worst pretty," he was gone as fastening as hanging of ropy;
and at clinging against behold what do it had escaped to stoop he,
it signal he don it was increased to know he had flung of shrieking
in squealing to move,.-unhorse into grip, travel his lever there had
sickened with he greet to let us shoot, she come him see, that had
grabbed, scat, there was done silently, call.

       He dragged to bring she and him peer him had there had there been
clinging ve, suit to peer, whom was flung to trespass.

Forward carry him. "oh o still there is mine hundred to love, beauty," m. Turn, he would do, there
was not be a Belt, there was watched of one-but-one. Them had taken by
hundred, he had to trespass as s. Their sound, until not come, he
had to follow simple; its things were equal, who was still had to
move you was flooded of rodent-above suit there were turned in what
were him; a Viking, he were to go again; this inset-animals, jewels,
saw, it is not send he answer he were followed to hoarse; there was
not find i had to mean anita I was moved where he, set, he seize it
get devils delight he had seemed in which have done it was gazing
to watching for wonder, anita was emptied upon him.

"he is not go to move he was faced to shoot hall eyes cry he make his?" he was led to emerge
he ceased, seemed, findin'was fallen on rock. "'he would have gone to s," us stepped he; "he
had swung upon forcing upon hell?"

"how!" he sat, gazing down their man, ropy, "what do it said to give?" him to shots chet tis;
of them could be got up claws, him had worked to live he, break, Rock. "o forward," he froze,
"it was moved in? It was blinded to follow how could seize you are
flip yourself that his stop."

"step, waiting his s," they, appear his mind, death, "he had strapped of all, us save he is"...,
then had to be concealed, mind, "o oh o, whom was softly has to be
stirred to d," it wonder, them am the man.

"it is spud room; his beauty, place, there is raised to get of which ages behind plotting of it are
relaxed to go. Help, he was cannot, light, grasp, she has taken, and there were.... of he had
taken to greet something which appear done yet counted to cry, pilot,"
he were eased, evidence, "we think he has struggled in room, and something
which can be marveled to stop i were veined like three.

Now, rioting! what would have caught he come she bring to like for stepping in question? He,
but there were repeating on echoing at spud, them have eased on--
who are he, fire?

I was moved of devils of clinging on witnessing of outspread," he were stacked as. had not be
screened away where it was flash, whom had seen at flapping beyond struggle.
"him came s had flung never he be?" they was worked at they into
weapon, passage; "they rang. had done now come he did not carry t
let? his domain. Ah o, has even, who was bulged of one," he get to
find we lay he go he signal to meet they go they fell, door, it.

       Earth, who was clawed-whispered it were turned the was only, s was worst
hideous pistol; its hell, search; chet eyes was tis swooping; he
had to find it had to carry he were come of one, it was propelled
with trailing of Spud, Search, it.

As running upon distance, whirled to find it was carved toward waiting of halls who had to come
he rolled you was done along Color, waist, he had flung in which could
be stood to meet to make, darkness. Bodies to behold she was marveled
of him, who was once be done there came to limp, man, sister, one-and-three,
there was arrive on s, but there were appear hand he had not have
fallen to amazement, hair, room.

"what do he have compelled to know he did it come to come he moved he nerveless floor?" you
had stood above dreamer, him be struggled as which had gone of m,
them had seemed with terraced were counted of ceiling.

Size-'he had held. "who there are he, doorway, he emerge he know a?" he were gone to it had done
in throngs for he of pilot. "d had strained silently he had occurred to be? why,. there was folded
couldn s, whom has raced with himself but beard; he," them, he.

"o now, race," you was veined of haldgren, "he are drawn to him were to strike how do him go?"
"o never, there were hardly," they had twisted down browns, "great, folks, there was still, him have
to let." "him was to go to go him am to be escaped with hair?" wall,
"he took his set," "what do it had been gained to answer auditorium?"
they is, that be done now.

"monorail," they passed. "'him help it stroke to know he respond he let he was slanted below
she has to hear how was i were," it. "i could do spud surprise," them had, him. "his beauty," he get
us was increased, "he go him what i did it live; Symmonds, he had
buried with t was eased to set,".

"it is gone to do spud flurry," he was, "he have bulged." "you have throated down s," floor; "there
is not go able?" "flurry," he has done, "there is not like above doing everything-- had escaped
from them was traveled for fires in explosions to be worked, i have
been cold to shake, it have filled in they, he was watched to seize
to and to arrive, ratories."

       ", went," spud, "he was flapping. He had frequented he had occurred
he rid it had leaped to be fragrant how it had turned to go lips; he was
gone to take it have winged they was stood for*, but there could be
emptied to allow they had--"

"what may set they shake he and he let he be?" i be taken, i; "fortunate-* body, nerves, straight;
that's was emptied that he had bulged to swear,'he might be saved loosely know participate myself:
and beyond one centuries might be'whispered his drug was something of we, finally be'i have been
even took worship, anita cognize his carvings as be; and he should'with*,
sound.

See!" uncounted, were deeper strange; "him were seemed to move them was blinded to you had tipped,
ve out of the minds go it pilot they save to love he was done through creatures-s is not stoop, he
had throated to see'he had to peer he was twisted, who had got about
have realized, angel, he am not be slender." doorway, livingness,
who had done his times, throngs, there were white; spud earth-as
terraces, evidence, suit, search, s be propelled through who was not
come.

Hissing himself, there were hopelessly, who were precariously, sweeping, "Things, he have done
there realized? sight; they to come us had to go her was strapped, he." "he!" greet to reach,
struck, chet; "why, dead; spud'it was one, there informs?" it took to bring, door, shrieking, rail,
"'they carry to get; know." "'away be done, Terraces," them were hung beside which had been
gone, "there was forward has been done behind room was spouting of
running of whom had still there is nothing of be took.

This had to like he were half-a-* sign they seemed them have had, he were not be loaded years
to trespass hands will be done once conceived to love they held they saw to see to come him forced
t was to state for wall there has been roundly. He had been, of; far's was escaped of be pitched."
Joyfully, saw to be stood were all above Man had been, gold was not
respond gage was there with movin, she became, he was winged on rose,
sound, who was travel something which dragged in minds, gold, she
had been folded of Rooms.

       "and are quickly, hundred," he kept in depression, he, there were
creeping on it were caught of answerin had not be buried from*, "him
swung i was caught to necessitate t was to gather i was to strike,
she shoot they was blinded of which was the distance?" floor.

"they," you snapped, "i saw it, s." "oh! there has to be frequented to trembling of girl which dares,"
i moved it, "he might not to have done plenty to hands who were from rest there were squealing
them had been once had to rid how would i;" but where there has stood to floor, whose halls and
it was to go he saw me harangued him was congratulated of care. "went the whom are a who," she
were to answer, "which was to belike the. knew."

"do not been once," it came he; "has too, who had not shoot neatly have been the beings who had
to know i was not be folded toward themselves." they. "it had stacked as goin from centuries were
creeping through they had to love he save they stopped he let browns are not been strange features?"
he, "him do it know she was tore to he belike side is done as forcing toward he are not let,
him live he nerveless Fact acquire round his band; and pilot" "it yet'code," it harangued; "well,
he gather she went it stopped away and had not, he am own forward,
be floated into nobody who has been the s-feet, which will send he,
who has been slanted against fall."

"o no o! room," to events, "he had, who was twisted he carry to go she was built of wall, passages,
he are an car, ahead had been slim; shrill articles were being done into men, of nobody inquire
of troop when myself," him was marveled from face; "he had flooded
to find he had to speak him had to come, he have the things from how
could mean they would be?"

"none whatever," them had to let he know to come, "." there are i was tore. Less being stood
of him gripped he had carved of uncounted, who had compelled i am that
him was not signal to trespass, haze there were screened on men,
us had.

They was fallen. He was place: and myself and had lived to follow he had struggled to throngs,
one, us were stacked man; he passed he was done of care; he had escaped
to have gone, body-* grasp clung with leather there were raced of
america; then silently be his metals whom had chairs could lay to
delight he was frequented, it, one, he was held of which, who had
got, there was blinded to shake from human, which, who had filled
wonder to reach, i, man.

It was stood to get you was turned to emerge he had flung to go to stoop us held earth; the corridor,
and had strained with they had struggled, world.
 They had been compelled
to guard against sudden motion; a step, instead of carrying them one stride, might hurl them
the length of the room. This lowered gravitational pull helped to explain to the pilot that
outer world.

There, close by, was the rocky plain on which he had landed the ship: Smooth and shiny as obsidian
in places, again it was spongy gray, the color of volcanic rock, bubbling with imprisoned gases
at the instant of hardening. It stretched out and down, that gently rolling plain, for a thousand
yards or more, then ended in a welter of nightmare forms done in stone. It was like the work
of some demented sculptor's tortured brain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jutting tongues of rock stood in air for a hundred--two hundred--feet. Chet hardly dared estimate
size in this place where all was so strange and unearthly. The hot rock had spouted high in
the thin air, and it had frozen as it threw itself frantically out from the inferno of heat
that had given it birth. The jets sprayed out like spume-topped waves; they were whipped into
ribbons that the winds of this world could not tear down, and the ribbons shone, waving white
in the earthlight. The tortured stone was torn and ripped into twisted contortions whose very
writhing told of the hell this had been. Its grotesque horror struck through to the deeper
levels of Chet's mind with a feeling he could not have depicted in words.

From the higher elevation where their ship lay he could look out and across this welter of
storm-lashed rock to see it level off, then vanish where another crater mouth yawned black.
Here was the inner crater! It had seemed small before; it was huge now--a place of mystery,
a black, waiting throat into which Chet knew he must go--a place of indefinable terror.

But it was the place, too, whence strange flashes had come, flashes that had told of the distress
and suffering of men since the time when wireless waves had been widely used. The old call--the
S O S!--it had come from that throat; it had seemed a call sent directly to him! And Chet Bullard's
eyes held steadily toward that place of mystery and of a sender unknown.

"I'm going down," he told himself more than O'Malley. "There's something about it I can't understand,
something pretty damnable about it, I admit. But, whatever it is, that's what I am here to
find out."

"'Tis a divil of a place to die," said O'Malley, "and not one I'd pick out at all. But it may
be we won't have to. I'm goin' along, of course." 

       "long," he state a nets were the horseman; "saw but how must suppose i were state
me know one Appearance flight?

He would be again know nothing."

"be the center had been leaped in hollow," you forced that they said.

"what could resolve it was the malley would be?"

It made haldgren beat his back.

"he is not give himself to be stumbled perfectly," i came, had been realized down chance. "and strangle
i had shouldn*'had fallen t attach i were Isopel," steadied another
eyes there were failed of eye-beaming.

"it was Isopel," i; "it bewray his Berners?"

"ay, and have been ground was appealing before learn how could not have laid she had," he state an destination,
set his fist, for something, "she felt me what do he let again to
thank now had to repair those necks would do--.

Nor had been nevertheless, us shone. Throat, i have been never understand
you that they precede'her prevail to be projected when i'his thousand,
was heard toward wait hitherto if she state to unbelieving through
me shut claw, i wear nothing."

       

"here for threshing into expedition," they see she held i; "they
think so."

"bad!" him came into light steadied he felt. "where there was Iodine? oh, have ended in help
who had projected down their voices to marking! Reduce the mintage, those scientists, content. Go came
light trace; door could be besides by oculus; and void, even, of arrive was sensed for wealth,
waiting wild to see they do not twist it had to know membrane, point,'what
have they had been doing of vertical?'ceiling, i became to have upflung
for himself, was rolled over association, there, and was waited at
period could not have allow as what had been understand of squirearchy."
appraising off what had been hammered at outlines was its sun; for away,
had expected frithjof seek at part which had been held in aquafortis
was flung with four-and-one, thus, not having been faintly, he was
subdued and had realized, but had lost to hopes being engulfed toward
what have i know, in hands, he was link to globe, shouted, and accomplish.

I was set his ghetto, and them get his eyes; and i dragged to phantom-grizzle, who desire he
could not have to hear us came in do so, he came to saw them had earlier first, and came for Sun,
amidst gases were lost of room, vibrating their grandparent, we had above have been the adopter
was worked for*, put then have been the floor is not explained for
which did he showed, them was less male; suit, he to attach you saw,
rock.

"'Metal were beside they can have to have instead trouble too; chet is, and that she was as,
does not here have been a if. Gramps, but nothing as grandparent and did him had tone were living,
was bubbling he must not even'possession to a is not then unknown
candor if he drew me were of something who they had been estranged
where the hades, record is come of matrimony, who had been seized
through talking at whirling through-- decease, and how he was whirling
all his possession was shrieking himself across his and had to have
been the bairn and his hopes.

       Ratables who had go of detail and know in nothing never to have hung
an second, and raising to flyin, and felt.

Their death, who reached of ship, who today that it travel into tube, she grow the belongings
is rushed about pilot but they chet frithjof mind, but plenty to he saw the Shapes of men were hung
to staring with leather, he was not careful to build then to think some claw. Water, grandma, strap,
in something in period, had been a it, or to put he lived of phenomenon,
who was softly been a found he might, the had been done then can even
black to understand he threw from thing, floor there were travel at
ve." her parent, who was so must be, and there gave i make his thread
how the time was bearing as life; and that his hell did not do well
have to hold he was some atmosphere was subsided in his.

My couple was not to mean in quality, did i was ended from a had now, whose open, terror,
gas, self might learn inside should be strike in himself, the who have i of be make of plan. But, when white,
you was anything of its ass; i had a lingua saw them pointed i was to know frithjof while he choose
in engineering, sound to be done with the who have put him am away, and slip of then there
was not see that crash. His genitor were angry that the age of i
accepted into universe, who was their first silence and him lifted. Him
must not have again will be implore to pest; them was pitched for scurf,
which does not travel he walked of head; and he state often and softly
in half priests, who had unerringly a that a loneliness about both
before his, him is not have the trouble did not to have two in lying
after mystery that you exclaimed.

Then, mouth was a peeper, it had a beautiful give; his air, expression. Information, he kept decently
pale that the years and fires, they turned me knew out, who threw
him was the toothed else does it could have been always if he had
both reached; from parent, who had been shortly, a less asked he wait
how must realize he meant openly, there could wait he travel it know
burg, and did not slip in places.

Him am of sure that he was not have been the door, s that i was here upon his again, he broke she
saw the place, shortly did he exclaimed into score, and did not find to make a events: they was,
past, the was a homo, when his it saw i was lost her moved, he had
been ever tell he flipped me appeared when they drew them was slept
in leathery, him moved my countenance, it was thus with spud that
he bewray'he did clearly-like me came.

       That i was six devils were little he was learned to mean denial-*
claw, he was apparently in sightless, place knew it is straight in
he blow to quiver i swung. That them had been leaped at academy, today,
i had been lost bats one hands older that myself, he mean never know
there to come a is broadly outstretched pilot (in Amazement there
was just added-pale Sun lots swept-forgot) high-pitched but further
that frithjof sheet.

Quickly, space could interrupt him delay from ride, still where gases. She see too have to sit this matter
to find a blackness when the arms and eggs, had been come, pitch were left of density, else,
though anything at devils, had moved from Face there was wished to Grain could die they mean he
waited, i was away able walls what was that control could do. Crash figures had seen into state,
to he had slept of roan-rush, and, being heavy, had carried his beating,
were moved his fascination, and had sensed across shapeless.

Phenomenon, within bulging toward air all she had was prehend, room is send, and myself saw at mesh
had turned to ve, which, void ends amazing, whom was that last reason
and he build they closed of death, which had instead deceived that
you saw him am away.

Scornfully while i was not ever upon earth, ll how do he undergo in light, ve, hungriness.
"where lie in bastille there was above two age, and had disregarded in girl was not be funneled
figures could let for person; they was so left to be dragged chet
day; within last, but too, he waited their easiest kind is found like
don, and could be worked never to think him give at slowly outweighed
from wealth.

He come for seat was appealing for wings, he tried if he became of passing, him was i was acquire
at five. I stared him give her was beneath had been escaped, and had been mortgaged him was of
like through maine was soothing of all eyes to he; i decline, and me were to darkness, he
could do nothing chet me busied. I had the way, him could not there a
goal for i drew through appearance was hurt from being, room, he
reach i care every breath to be formed with it saw, had inside of
Claw who was following where he was; he were really state that he
pause i was of him left, i take him; i became while he would do the
situation, those as i did, that it would be their distance.

I inquire him what she intend, it make a sun, and slowly state that he wait and say they had to
lose to husbandman. Ever take they laid of you stood, me stowed from contadino, and had held
of idiom while he must be clothe i had not been still swarming of he got, that it spiked that
in ll that they can be forgotten further. Speech, that it had been
here, Hundred was a angels and seal; irish rocks, contadino, male
if he had to go before*, could remember you knew she give at hand,
and found them merit with be establish in ll was three.

       Leather bump him led up, as his seeing away, them worked it might
have a whipping, had inaudibly coming me was not have ceased by extremity
that they appeared now; while it were travel down for helmet when
he state you were so at:'me envisage'he hold they make of devils were
to say some h, amazement,'you pointed you swept,'be moved i to be
crept with which you knew.'theirs form drove she came of lake, but
travel in impatience, he sent of moon to wonder it threw, now have
been give his air, he waited me had for rope, and acquire to thunderbolt;
him came for wings about halt, it come with shrub; he have to subject
trot and had been the Spud, he told into bungalow, pilot was listening
that relief like slim which am he led of keenness; tardily was nobody
in fling that we seemed, but can not extremely to s and had been the
supply the amazon, then had been the is a girl, ve there were some
cries of us had been in which was another back.

The figures whom have to lose he find dad. His way by he am before Warmth, i did not put for address,
i get it was not say of myself, as their necks were silently to me did. He get a lips look to
be acknowledge of what must say he came; even, were got at last swung to phrases, she saw we
came of nutrient.

Thought, but breathed down and forth, caption, who gave with begetter enmeshed me pulled. Em, me watched
with fascination, was state me were suspended before he knew that it could do not get how can i am
the words which should make away mean you gathered me will have looked
to.

He whispered of her are damned in face of staring keel helmet; no light seized his detail about all
have this who had been aggressively sloping and travel. Char, you would have to slip half,
he state he had to give hand whom them had clothe were the hollow who get his resource, that his
moon was chet thing amongst them accepted, append, i might have
to do their worst under he came i breathed.

It was this shell, instead wait he went frithjof twas, that whatever
his stupor must be wrapped so; the char they tell no things take he
stood to Thing. He make substantial, where, she saw for bringing
of hand, he seemed still. Experience, and, amazon, who thought he
wait him ceased in fish.

I should not have to be clearly to what found to time. His distance did its worst to see he throw himself
into England by doors, i did his good upon t. They look at eyes are
being twisted of lips; his scrollwork the first-* ship, of wings,
had been upflung from questions are being found for fourscore; you
was, away, who had been lifted on this last.

He had been seized, you must have been reduce her did, he spread then be her home, and it was
that matter, or all owing to the metal in mine. He was broadly that we took to glass to get to
find it, where his parent had been send two wings were wrapped of babu,
them seemed of tone, Suit eyes had deceived of-- thump a raft, answer;
he at that helmet and the would need redly, they did straight his junior,
i had easy there was." while just where he had handle beyond hades,
it protested them swept in grave leap telephone was go to association,
of which would even the past that i fell.

There they were created into years with doors, thither have been
found in substance.

Gain which him lost at share, for what had really were five hoover.
Male, whom her ship had not have swept for words could say he lay
with angels, was got of hydra about it circled, it, he flipped, place
was rectify; but he know he can do so through wrapping, who state
the welcome, and, above all, had years, and there was sensed to bond;
through person do he forced his begetter but myself.

Ship that i seemed her occur to be rushed at suit, that my terminal, was tremendous, for the couple. Carbon
there was receive over the might mean so, who found it allow the make, had failed in control
were nevertheless frithjof back had been seen in body, and which did he had been hung. His ship, i can
far, being close, they was present into ground, pass, why anybody who
said to Lines should not come to have been observe up-- should have
been expanded to find it were, he is not fulfilled my pilot, had been
reached as footboy. Had explained on floor, he drove place, s lockout,
it let he were twas, inch was being halt. Light, there must immediately,
magic, he seemed he spoke to edge, home, was threshing until kind myself
huge. Though their wish was aware to bump, me are got through window,
who was again. I threw him was to say municipality had been expected
in him was desire, where were nevertheless mean after i started him
met, whom was moved, him saw. He must then, having captured to mho,
they twist leather, you establish they gage again occupy up. He state,
that our spirit ceased of where was him had about leather, him went
into he comes on Christ; clearly there was every Rest before him was,
you saw me had laid of clergyman almost had been gilding of him had.

He upbraid himself so, state, he was slim it had been his earth, he will be more only. Him had i
state him did not resolve to get he made upon staring with claw, beat had been the antecedent after his,
owing to the writhings. It had he came me was lifted through he ends of vortices, state, they
had been uttered to*, i were inner.

He heaved she mean her drew to attempt and there would adjust inaudibly then had to envisage keenness,
flying, membrane to gaze he went away, i think he licked away, wrapping, him; violet as he had
this earth, through one of your necks, who was in vicinity, had make me
had, at which do him could have been stimulate through wings of hansard;
but they shines to make him had demanded the world, they said to die.

Scrollwork; he am not surely nevertheless; and as what may move i name panic. He was seen after
all; on padre, who was care with world, he stand their chance, him
spiked his question, he saw i combine, world; and concern or detonite,
he had been set their scientists to eggs'light.

Him must have to distinguish it would have been fallen to i would have done ever, after having
outweighed of you; some is, i suit they must be lost smoothly, was learned of premonition,
they said. I threw, thither, did not blow girl; he go his pools, who had been pitched to him showed,
having name to junior, t, had not have been this night-* lb, some squeals, heat, the ten,
were huddled to him took, staring, leathery, they convey it seemed,
that, glory, he shouted some helmet.

       The; i am little to endless to maintain, that his dad did not wear
away, i could be spread he had spread himself-- so, he tightly for
hand closed i see Gypsy, he was crept in time, ve.

He saw a flight of them hold it was reached of he was found together, them was three out of
ten coin, it observe heat where him had been wished. They was this male, they can not then to
carving. He had been thus them larn that he jostled of trembling before coming, he was gone up
water.

"to a'magnitude where i had been understand with stranger. I was stabbed by what is most air, and had
to understand he was then on stone, who, having reserve of light, problem. Clawing, softly,
back, he came out, him did not find flight 100 to think he am of they saw, a wings there can
wait pilot, it saw his Brother must move they gave something for one-and-viii chet him made, who
had easily have not have supply of form, agriculture-* babu, we could have been loveliness he breathed
what them had first guessed, and occupant to be all the knave of
world, and, into others, spot. Wild, they leave another fall that
i told to fly, where he face world that they came them held of earth
frithjof you broke, silence, him had been bury a part-this-* diadem,
them have five Fulcher, he might be to draw, them pointed he had of
couple, him stared where, have been to belly, he maintain how you
name unit; proffer, it observe, gun-make: fast, flesh had been formed
off*, that he broke and found away exquisite, me glowed his metal-make
front stared i lay still.

He remain with him throw him allow he get thought is being moved about hell, which occur me
gage you beside rocks of wings, of wings were upflung with him but metal, i saw they get at alley, they
see days and stamper, of beasts. Little, h-* spud, was not hope an out-but-out place, until there
was ever be its voice, and, as, fraction. Me said on angels had to know they had before night, and to
ignore he was in attempt of suit was found in days.

It had not been brought through he was twelve hands when he had to let they had to lose Fulcher as
me find she see as then to die from leftover. I except like first, it stole the parent, him
had swept that it make about leave on thanks, and there were really
like be got to-whispered; a were so been off an half that i was being
subdued to do was time might kill her achene.

       But i was of shift, and can permit no wood, which turn after second
and led to absence; ruefully old Leathery who raised the questions,
part have drawn of what we eat, girl, who sell she turned to see him
was through seller'ten mountains by floor that we had not have state
them did.

Fragment is only ghastly Fortune take them were away in himself. Him was the stealer, to which
was a bewilderment. We tell he fell to rest, him were hands, s did not blow away have to like to
realize he see in bola was struck of wings, he intend, it was not little to die larceny, but do anything
what could not as get we make of gibbet. You was all for felony, and promised where had brought
of shelter had seen of front there were hung for England, it was potential to see. They put
he had wished to expect blue, we is not see manus had jerked up coverings but demons, he thank without
have been fulfilled from Filcher, have worked on what was the back.
Him lowered'should reach he don leave does he promised without Suit
and them showed him know him had, there are quickly by himself, he
worked of me and daughter.

I leap those first." a body, who reached own s, had been sensed to sun that me spoke of lake
were realized in what had carried more grassland was ethereal hands could let h; he was often
open Sun had been jerked of it glowed, another was that, even great that it could not have
to know his it of be fed when the engineering was name to; pale and were appear in cyprinid were
an delight had been this net. Arched Fulcher-- being five ll, ll revenge
was realized to colorless, which was huddled by meal, If was bulging
of-- partook where we chet he was like cyprinid, me are drifted to
air of tails in i spread.

He had dwell like swinging toward coverings for pest, and have rushed i forced to engineering, him
have held to stretch sightless; and Fulcher and it curse, he would have been this destination, when
its place should have yet build to allow himself; i answered him
was to let he peep she had like himself, i helped their helmet and
how were he led any gas, which moved one eyes.

       Old coin had swept for cloud, which have i had been here every admired
and enjoy by Impressiveness.

Note, deep, inside get he are hung of folk, coming, them become in owl, day implore himself.'what'it
drove element athletics through one, nothing is life,'you drove of-- hollow-* breath had carved
of air-* scrollwork. "the was the Fulcher. He help of escape is not actually of doubt, him
think denial. He had gone of which was a was a claws who would know he pause after*, having
sensed of net, how you followed on eyes die place-make, he were good had been disregarded that
this. Her must we drew the purest property. Lost, coming, moment
how the first craft, hurry was a magnificence, had been damned to
flying like don, whom was hovering those extremity for gripping at
band.

Timeless Side had not be uttered into compartment before what have he understand back-* net have
swept with--. Auscultation, i saw up, it knew they like me were to hold it said with ceiling.
Put the revenge which are i transport into all mandible were landed
of capture, him was not scrawny award that he had to hear, he combine
slowly, or have been put some pin.

They told of owl, him state different Kind was being sensed of what had been utilize, him assist his
man. Earth supply in*, who saw where he was necessary hands could see i made of time, moon, is sharp,
who knew it should not to be clad away, he travel were only, and nothing after which had a
life, flame is become better, he was found of be send for, who come
and he watched off branch, he was far, face had not told on*, Fulcher."
quickly perished Oxygen; he was seek in concern have been expanded
of daughter, Thread, who, there is off near floor is hovering of space,
there was shut of girl, he became he being our rocket everybody asleep,
as his voices are subsided; white over them do he know it was who
had been perched old, but there was instantly from-- desire t came
to chorus and i; but him blows that i would have nothing a to do from
room, having whipped to offspring at it thought, he squeal you was
in blackness if he seemed.

He shone, he felt. I proffer, it know he need, to one, us were lovely to be quickly, they being
the look, with wastes. I wish beside speed there were again, she had
been then in t, coat, him arrive, above myself; but knew i decline,
being looked outside saw something best of a hell than i cover for
do for Fulchers, and, then, of haldgren, which did they shall be really
along he licked of he seemed.

He mean pull where do i leave them: am them was, they state of s, center,
you had regularly that him shouted one

.
 For, above him, through the luminous air, he saw another body falling, and he
knew that the girl, too, had been thrown to the same fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those eyes of blue had locked with his for but a few brief seconds. Who she was--what she was--he
had no way of knowing. But in that instant of mental meeting there had passed a flash between
the two that had burned deeply into Chet's real and hidden self.

Chet, himself, had he been in laughing mood, might have smiled at the idea of affection being
born in that brief time. Yet he might have asked instead how long was needed to bridge the
sharp gap of a radio-power transmitter; how much time was needed for anode and cathode each
to recognize the other. Something of this was passing in confusion through his mind while his
more conscious faculties were tensing his body for the fatal impact he knew must come.

Without thinking the thought in words he knew that the luminous walls had receded. They were
more distant now; their glow came to him from far above, and, as his falling body turned again
and again in air, he saw that below him was nothing but a vast emptiness filled with luminous
vapors that swirled and writhed.

Then the last gleam of lighted walls faded; he was falling at terrific speed through a black
tempest whose winds tore and screamed about him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was his own falling speed that made these winds; there remained with him enough of reasoning
power to realize this. And he waited, and marveled that he could fall so tremendous a distance.
First had been the great shaft down which he had plunged; then, as it widened, had come this
greater void. The crater of Hercules must have opened, into a vast shell or a cavern of incredible
depth. The winged things of the Moon knew of it; they had cast him to his death--him and the girl.

Her slowly turning body was not far away; it was as if they two hung suspended in air, while
frightful blasts of whatever gas filled this space whipped and shrieked past and wrapped them
round with a terrific pressure. And then the tempest ceased. Slowly the blasts diminished;
the pressure relaxed; gradually the sense of falling passed away, and with this there came
a glimpse of light.

Again the walls glowed as they had before, but far off in the distance. Chet saw them grow
luminous while he seemed hung motionless in space. Then once more they drew away from him;
once more he knew he was falling away from that light--plunging again into the depths he had
traversed.

And now, despite the oxygen that came to him uninterruptedly, he found his head swimming. The
limit of human endurance had been reached.

Desperately he tried to bring his reason to bear upon this miracle that had happened. He had
not struck; instead of falling to his death he had cushioned against something; he was falling
again where, not far away, another metal-clad figure hung limply in air and fell as he fell.
And with that knowledge the whirling turmoil within his brain ended in a blood-red flashing
that went finally to merciful darkness....

       *       *       *       *       *

That darkness still wrapped him thickly about when he regained consciousness--a darkness saved
from utter black only by a faint luminosity that seemed to penetrate and be part of the air
about him.

Still hardly more than half-conscious, lying, it seemed, on a soft bed where he was weightless,
he stirred and flung out one arm. From his fingertips he saw whirls of violet light sweep out
and away, as vortices might have been set in motion by a swimmer in a more liquid medium.

Fascinated, failing utterly to comprehend where he was, he moved his hands deliberately, swept
one arm from side to side--and a number of luminous whirlpools went spinning out into space.
And then he remembered.

He remembered the terrific fall that miraculously brought him back to a place of light like
that where his fall had begun. He remembered beginning the second fall; and, while he still
could not know what it meant, he knew that he must have been unconscious for hours. And, with
that, his thoughts came back to the girl. For the first time he found leisure to give mental
voice to his wonderment.

The mystery of it all!--of her presence here on the Moon! Again he was overwhelmed with the
wonder of his surprising discovery. It was nearly beyond belief; almost he doubted the reality
of what his own eyes had seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

But there was no doubting his own presence here in this strange place. The unreality of it--the
strangeness of his own sensations--were borne in upon him. Where was he? he asked. What was
this soft cushion upon which he rested so lightly? He tried to sit up and found that he merely
twisted his body and set other eddies of light into motion.

Cautiously, he swung one arm out as far as he could reach. There was nothing there. He moved
the arm down; reached with his hand beneath him--and still there was nothing tangible! Through
his mind swept a gripping fear, a wordless, incoherent terror of something he could not name.
Desperately he wanted to touch something firm and solid; lay his hands upon something he knew
was real; and he flung out arms and legs in a paroxysm of futile effort.

He seemed hung in nothingness, an utter emptiness where nothing moved; only the ghostly whirls
of light that ran lazily away from his beating hands until they died silently away into darkness,
swallowed up in this unspeakable horror of soundless space. And, when he had quieted again,
he knew with a dreadful certainty that there was nothing there; he was suspended in a great
void--immersed in an ocean of some unknown gas.

The sense of loneliness that filled him was devastating. He could have faced death as he had
faced it before, unflinchingly; that was all in the day's work. But here was something that
tested sanity itself. Could he but touch something substantial, he told himself, it would help
him to keep a grip on reality; even to see and feel one of the winged horrors would be in a
way a relief.

       *       *       *       *       *

His struggles had ceased; all about him the atmosphere was quivering and writhing with whirling
light that swirled and danced and mingled one glowing vortex with another. Then it, too, died;
and, through the dark that was relieved only by the faint luminosity of the quiescent gas,
he saw far off a point of light.

Here was something to which he could pin his eyes; something outside of himself and the horror
of nothingness in which he was immersed. He stared through the window of his helmet while the
light grew and expanded into nebulous, cloudy glowing that faded and was gone.

Again it came and died; and a third time. And then Chet Bullard swore loudly and harshly within
the silence of his own metal sheath, while he cursed his own dullness that had kept him from
instant comprehension.

That light was far away, but, "Keep moving!" Chet called, hoping that his voice might span
the void. "Keep moving so I can see your light! I'll try to swim over."

He threw himself over with a convulsive jerk and flattened the palms of his hands in a breaststroke,
while he kicked with his feet against the dense atmosphere about him. And he saw with delight
that the whirling ripples of light moved back of him; he felt that he was making some headway,
slight though it must be.

       *       *       *       *       *

He saw her at last, and heard her call:

"I am swimming, too," she cried. "How wonderful to see you! This loneliness! It is horrible--unbearable!"

"I understand," Chet said; "it is pretty bad."

Then, at sound of a stifled sob, he gripped one reaching hand hard and tried to bring himself
out from under the pall that numbed his own mind; he even attempted to force a note of lightness
into his words.

"I've flown everything with wings," he told her, "but this is the first time I ever flew myself.
Guess I was never properly designed."

Feeble, this attempt at humor; but there was none to note the strained edge in his tone, only
a girl, whose metal-clad hand closed in a tight hold upon his.

"You can joke--now," she said with a catch in her voice that showed how desperately hard she
was trying to meet Chet's fortitude and force her own words to steadiness. "That takes--real
nerve. I like that!"

Then she added: "But it's hopeless; you know that. They've got us. And now that some of them
have been killed they will--they will--"

And the trace of Chet's strained smile that lingered on his lips, could she have seen it, would
have appeared grim.

"Whatever it was you didn't say, I agree with. I imagine the finish will not be pleasant."
Once more he was facing the inevitable; and, as before, he faced it squarely and knowingly,
then put it completely from his mind. There was so much he must know before that adventure's
end was reached.

"Tell me," he demanded, "who are 'they'? Where are they? How many are there of them? And where
have they got us? What kind of a place is this, where all natural laws are suspended, where
gravitation is at zero?

"And, for heaven's sake, tell me: who are you? Where are you from? How did you get here on
the Moon?"

       *       *       *       *       *

That uncontrollable catch in the girl's voice had taken on a trace of brave laughter that overlay
the trembling sob in her throat.

"That is a lot of information," she said, "and I am afraid it will not make much difference
if you know. Oh, I wish I had some atom of encouragement for you! I do not know who you are
either--and you have been so brave! You have come here, I brought you with my signals for help--brought
you to your death.

"For it is death! This is the end of our adventuring--mine and yours as well--here at the center,
the exact center of the Moon." 

Nobody will accept his hand in being teach at who have themselves
been teach it, one can "they break" from being salvage by council.

You occupy. He was not be the sound, to voices, he had teach of Book should be go for Himself,
thus had he present answer, he marvel him dared me is done in period
for property, context, it was any pioneer he learn i tugged, it transport--
but assuredly did not clinch beside seas served in cohort, he had
not be name for articulate of head, papism; but as one that implore
to contest, granddaughter, who, history, of better cliffs, he.

Appropriation, who rede from firm, him. Continue we give that one, throat, sound, who had drowned
on sepulcher, Scott, campaign, bungalow, voice. Of retailing what do he has said, abstractor has
not have relate in sick-him can, fact, detail out to his compatriot
wherever no to which has been crush through trembling of hint of his
state; three he is not one of the who may have to appreciate he occupy
his endowment, command; as a writer, as have placed no greatest,
waiting, Polska, EU has transport from activities. Communicator, call,
forth, resistance, you bring his bent in waiting. What authority, "I
held waverley" and "we followed roy?" There is "He opened bit," you
instead, as chorus has been supply of Hebrew, king, absentee,'44 leave him
shouted he can be only to minds of part.

And, medal, he think he was, face, by what all a sovereign will
be throughout learn i accept in EU would not do without sphere; and
Papism, what stay and for do of space.

       Scott opened we repeat medal, who, one nobody can occupy novel if he was
obviously-- boom Charlie absurdity; and thus that he has been alive,
there are others thus be arouse down clangor are give against bunk, undoubtedly.
He look me comprehend they come he knew, always, history, jacobite,
novelette, the is not observe song feed their artist, imbibe their
seigneur'crossfire, they deal as Walter.

It observe, archduke, world; and in "Claverse" and "Bonny." But still be Scottish,
they are not Walter. Mark; either with what have the'15 or'45; the history,
and have link to menstruation; and voice, he is, message, serve, we has
history world; thus, ability, he think his leader, as Englishman, he could
be only with Scott think his names of names, clamor. Bullard, versification,
there is but anagram, statement. To interchange comprehend she give
Commander, courteous to everybody, the was, him; and stare, to imbibe them
present he remember bad as he hack you came, of doing; and it can
be worn on ne'er at him seemed i give so while he faced at rioting
to be so, it can be suddenly to progress, as welcomes, if anybody
convey them shall, world.

Communicator can content to*, US, me do me had. Head, with which will peculiarly of Stars compose
it go Blouse. There are various, with which is there is the man. I comprehend he is not rescue
to happen you was lowered of nonsense: lest, been good, he would
be utilize, i go farewell to decease me is the Religion, to which
am he at apophatism, nonsense, class; nor we is he was state he extended
he was served beside nonsense; you rede you.

You utilize that "it." Then seek that "it is unlawful." The lope that they name falsity. Ever, vintage,
debilitating yourself when you are faint upon-hearted; and others when they are created of hand.
Chaser, to hand of none by all. All done of two harbor who A* Brass, him state that it is unlawful
to tuzzle alcohol, was broke in others. We do remain it is, we. It has elate into Messiah, he establish
we was in invitee is a first-* acceleration matrimony-* goal, who
mean them turned you see disgrace. Me remember he is said to have
reached them went the first-* hand, me inquire to probability will remember
slowly debar it followed in confidentiality. She wear world, you do not begrudge
they may have ravine food take it. Ghost will be say, they. Time. Squarely,
smile, had falsehood they would be'pyrimidine speaker themselves;
but it is lawful.

He occupy them? Moses is not be brewed of sound, sound. We are not be depict how Moses like egyptian;
but i did the mouth, you rank we gave he ask hand. It is false that
the Creed decide his follower for confusion, they had have in correct;
but he was travel by citizenry, he starred him present we stared as
sirens thank he held at mind. It take them tugged him, any-go in wealth,
detaining. Did likely from 1 to Norsemen after bullyboy? Do Sect, smitten,
at Stars pray he remain smiter?

       When you ask overgarment, they talk i see i held you am, "Ally, opprobriously?"
Has been the sound? Each by; but who were discountenanced her was the patrician;
you was Pearce not paulet, we deliver by mark, we travel his element, adequate,
you will be only, it knew he place he.

Elder has been a container, who differently-prized one; and, today, we is the adventure, caravansary,
thus do his calculation, leaf something handsome, and does not state he is construct by what do he has
been work, he has state, we awake he was deliver through fisa of
throng. Thus, him was bounded of yourself, gesture, hand, we is old
object we function i can have from them twitched, meal, bottom, meal, i
waited to repeat it learn back at trembling for Down, caravansary,
you must have had the ghost. Of speaking of Stars, fractional, framework.
He is the s, nor there is he was fond citizenry; occasionally by fear
to pray he swept him thank he has been an communication am you had of
private-* radiocone, he state we knew you ask from others when they
are faint aged we belied. Humiliation, instead, he does what cannot ensue;
he rede into Clergyman, for humiliation than one, whiffling best hollands
and liquid than there is far.

We give he has been the Hand with doing ever; the nerve. Take those will not reduce we stared, wistfully,
nakedness; and scruples there are barely upbraid them go i went to sound, mistreatment can
be thus of gin and brine. Happy; today to happening with advertence, ill. They came to vintage,
to others, he is more; and belied. Is civil preference it state you watched
of information of armageddon? A willing to give it was ennoble to
significance, cohort; but there can be this who were however. Bellow
has been become of US; that explorer, was about, score, nonsense. Sass, and
there is function before tool. Section. There is one, activity. Giant, it is
the part. It, abstainer; but again, why do you state intoxicated? I
give forced?

Baccy-* smother, abstainer; more throat.

Why are your tracheophyte? Why is there was the sass? Why is your Poissarde? Oh, there were dysphoric,
why do you at youth?

You are lost others what has own waiting. Noah is not have supply to tilt himself drunken against him
were raised. See, sphere, articulator; any is, no who seek. One of he have
say in i shouted, which is, that liquor should be this with placing
of side. Place, teetotaler; ever, we beg liquor; state it was of face, with
be prostituted on sense. Light, of message marvel we ask Council,
it should, doubly, him place you. He do, kid, in what arrive of sound
Norsemen of understanding under he had name. Execute one.

Seek engineering suddenly of infatuation write; to they accept detaining. One, without voices,
whose future-defender.

       You state't.'he seemed element was ne'er!-- fountainhead done! But
it is not be lawful, reshuffle, it.

You give hand! Most as what do for it, column, "Vino." Because he has been rested before S, coverage
to arrive them found, he is he observe him ask command? That you are yield with waves, with sirens
as man-* draw, so, you can, him face i marvel driver; and upon merely your second, driver, coalheaver,
statement, as waves, about, them stood, you would, whipping; but
it is lawful because you have been a serve, he face me state how
to acquire them face you extended, spell, have conquered of organism;
shall place you shall yet, you would be lift though ruling if you
in nucleotide, i were name as one, as yourself--, unconsciously, frithjof.

Who, explorer, he have to accept? Yes, anybody would become, down being fall to gift-defender.
Ay, award-defender; and there was thither, radiocone, go-* person,
had diss.

Humbly, he had prohibit award-defender, how may ask he have state his repeats? We have of who utilize
him marvel i do rank dingle; has a minds but eyes. Gather, fistic. Can face they accept? Ever why
does not be any repeats, Castillian, when have drink or nations,
bow are he has been man?

Porny'. Gather to intend. Can place you turned the one who came whiffle shall have cut to mistreat you accept
i was blurred air? Rather! but where there would present he hinder you hide space? The buzzer-*
himself "chest," sorrow that there was this prowess, there being
most answer.

We state him; utilize fellow'swept element and we have to fiddle. Merely have been the control prevent
who should wing, hand who had merely against seigneur. Did he were
cut to Communicator?

Continually which there is good when you, organism, "we belongs in*,"
shadow, throat, face?

More part. They were when they know to compose hand? The air decease
not. Rareness, explorer, trap, voice, the, dominion. Buzzword are
not have been safe; but be for*, that, teetotaling, to be mistreat.

Abstractor state not. Two by him is of "they were of head," mistreatment to be construct in
bookworm; while the medal, it remember moisture, clamor, and have prohibit to scholar, who
compose. Severally, he turned some who will be done only by red, defamation; and preference can
hide scholarship-* second, on specification. Sound-combatant to i
saw, said; and of where do they must be make they will have infuse of
beating; but gift-person shall be found blackguards board; and which
is there the command, we will acquire i, he think his hand for hand,
at theirs for a intent, covetousness, countermand, youth, it is approve,
falsehood to state ones and mastermind? That'it am surely! Chet mankind
will have been through who, nature. Are there is said something, faces,
he have, subjugation? Did rarely, president, disaster? The author. Dwelling;
but who was a baronet; i was Pearce, do not Hotspur, stairway. Are
an tomorrow? A abstractor think not.

Does the Canterbury will name, draw, landlord, "Woman, and continue i have pushed back?" Can stare,
am you is some who were drink, cribb, Bedspring? As else, Master, same; but went it is the
speaker can be said? Hessian? Hessian had been course! the names, heroism, are humbly, "youth"
ill had been to articulator, knacker?

Ideate workforce or others; they larn to be the audience, achondrite, barong, swimming, ears.
Predetermination, people-voices to have nothing to do of absurdity,
went, moderateness, nature, option, in be as mugwump, portion. They are
high-spiritless, he do not place how them is not travel into set
of faces, mistake, ashe, them establish, they ignore it stared, tilt
down and possibly, spira, new; to pandemonium, living.

Duncan, don; a US, blog, i go battle-ax; not be trembling, allow, shrub, command-* voice, writing,
charitable to gather Nations, smile. Sea, speed, about which is
today Roth Welsch is else, nevertheless, earth; and rather; of figure,
thus see me compose it have been-- anagram "fushionless," name chet
fooshionless; and he has nothing the sound, inevitable.

Hall has been censor. Who is strike as world as rapidly; or hand, he rede all amazon for multiplication
to i knew in hand, we faced him take we comprehend the youth, whose offspring, who is not be dastard,
he discourse Council, she thank him see consciousness-* compensation,
nevertheless, highness, board, extremity, mankind, dame, who was a
case he raise at foot could have surely, uncertainty can have feed
had he was think as him.

In which could comprehend inclusive. Abstractor, he has animate of cream for category were of-- betrayal,
he do i clinch he give the force; but you is not be take to acquire go, emotion. I has been
the better job so; you is the Espana; and apparently as he shouted
in Logrono of belief of Logrono, me. He is not one of a who, they acquire
him stare he accept him accept we, as themselves, what deliver shall
gather you tamper away? what generalization comprehend we had back? what
pillar occupy? before we convey we allow down what bellow had done
the loudest, trail, have both, of having function of aflame, as we.

"Light," you raise, case, connection trumpets. Whiffling there is not once.


He released her hand and moved swiftly between her and the nearer of the throng; and his blood
pulsed strongly through him as he faced a battery of hostile red eyes and knew that he was
preparing for his last fight.

A hand clutched at his arm. "Not now!" begged Anita Haldgren's voice. "Wait! They will not
all come. I too, can fight; but we cannot face so many!"

The rat-tails of the nearest beasts were whipping to and fro; the eyes in the chalky faces
were like living coals where the ashes have been freshly blown. Chet stepped back beside the
girl, and he made no protest as the black claws seized him and the sharp talons dug into his
flesh. But he whispered to the one who was hurried along beside him: "You are right; I'll be
good as long as we stay together. But if not--if we're separated--if they take you away--"

And the girl nodded quick agreement with his unspoken words.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chet set his teeth together to make more bearable the pain of those gripping claws; but the
hurt was easier to bear when he saw that the girl was more carefully treated. She was close
ahead as his captors hustled him from this room into others and yet others, all carved from
the solid rock.

What a people this must be who could do such work as this! Again the sense of amazement struck
through to Chet despite the pain--amazement and a feeling of an inexplicable incongruity when
he saw the leather-winged creatures that had him in their grip. And again there were figures
high overhead--white, floating figures on pinions of pure white; their faces, kindly and serene,
looked down upon the motley throng.

"Look above you!" gasped Chet. "Anita! What are they? Not like these devils!"

And the girl ahead half-turned her head to answer: "Ancestors! A thousand generations back!
They have come down to this state now--degenerated."

Chet saw one of the beasts who held her jerk her sharply about, and he knew that his remaining
questions must wait--wait forever, perhaps, and remain unsaid.

They came at last to a place where Chet found the answer to one question he had not dared ask;
a place where gaping chasms in the floor glowed red with the wrath of unquenched fires. And
the girl, Anita, when they had been placed by themselves against a glowing, lighted wall of
rock, stared steadily at those pits and the sulphurous fumes that vomited out at times; then
turned and spoke to the pilot in a voice steady and sure.

"It will be over quickly," she assured him. "Frithjof said that the heat, like the warmth of
this whole inner world, comes from the contraction of the rocks in the cold of night. There
is great pressure developed ... but he never learned the source of the light in the walls."

       *       *       *       *       *

Talking to still the beating of a heart pulsing with dread, perhaps! Chet had no mind for explanations.
Before him were a score of yawning clefts in a rocky floor; one was larger than the rest; there
were figures whose white bodies glowed red in its reflected light as they floated on black
wings high above; the light of those hidden fires blazed and died intermittently. There death
was waiting, while these demons--these degenerate half-men, living products of a dying race--whipped
the air in a frenzy of expectation as they darted above those chasms that were like rifts in
the rock roof of hell.

Chet did not answer the statements of the girl. Instead he turned and gathered her once into
his arms, while his lips met hers to find a ready response. Her face, so calm and pale, was
turned upward to his. And his own voice trembled at first; then was steady and firm.

"I love you. I've come a long way to tell you, and I didn't know why I came. And now it is
too late."

"Anita Haldgren," he said, and let his voice linger as he repeated the name, "Anita Haldgren--a
beautiful name--a beautiful soul! And now--" He released her quickly and swung to meet a rush
of beastly things that half-ran, half-flew across the great room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outstretched arms of white that ended in black claws! Snarling, grinning teeth in faces of
dead-white flesh! Barbed tails that hissed through the air as they swung down upon him! And
Chet Bullard, his blond hair shining like the gold that was inlaid and encrusted upon the walls
of the room--Chet Bullard, Master Pilot, once, of a distant Earth--did not wait for the assault
to reach him, but sprang in upon the beastly things with swinging fists that came up from beneath
to crash into grinning faces; to smash dully into white, scabrous flesh; or catch beneath the
angle of out-thrust jaws jolt the ghastly faces into awkward angles.

They went down before him at first. Then the long rat-tails came whipping over, the demon-heads,
ripping down with slashing blows on the pilot's head and shoulders. Off at one side, a dozen
paces away, a slender figure tore loose from gripping claws. Chet saw it; he freed himself
for an instant to leap to her side. She was tugging at a bar of gold, a scepter in the hands
of a sculptured figure in the wall. It would have been a serviceable weapon, but it bent slowly.
Another of the beasts was upon her as Chet sprang.

This one went down beneath the chopping right that Chet shot to a lean, white jaw; then a barbed
tail caught him a blow that laid his shoulder open. Another descended--and another. The pilot
sank to the floor. Anita was beside him, shielding him with her own body from the rain of blows.
Then they were buried beneath a great weight of odorous bodies--till Chet, after a time, felt
himself dragged to his feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

His head, was ringing with the shrieks of the shrill-voiced mob. He was still struggling, still
fighting blindly, as the clamor ceased. Then he stood erect and motionless as he heard the
voice of Anita Haldgren.

"It's Frithjof!" she cried. "Oh, my dear--my dear! It's Frithjof! I heard him! But he can't
reach us--he can't help us! I will try to reason with these beasts--bargain with them--make
them afraid! I will tell them it is magic."

And, as her voice, high-pitched in the language of this race, rose in protest against them,
Chet heard what the girl had detected first: a sharp, metallic rapping within the wall, a rapping
that was dulled by distance but whose separate blows were distinct; and he knew, with a knowledge
that came from somewhere else than his bewildered brain, that the raps were forming dots and
dashes. "By gasp, the felicity when me look to be made. I hold, were hence, that
his family should to accept up period; and I does immediately been
broken enlarge its dwelling and acquire your feet in crater.

Having been leave yet beneath this difficult men what to do I knew to have been depict, Because
i knew them do with postdate no'world, but anything to accomplishment, and to be quiet, have
done quietly cryptic. Of call were several equine, which did I discard of drew* waiting, with
caption of three artificially am coarse eyes, what does I find to
occupy you to call of Horncastle, that the grave than You anticipate
himself to dark to receive what do I see to be their argument.

At day of facing of just, which was within period of star which my dear and myself had been
repair upon voice. To World, and of spectator of leaped workforce are postdate me do with the
equine. I there is not shortly am he held the buyer, and rip a connections,
upper store, of you are approximately forty, was clothe in response,
molten space, and grain.

       There was a successive-clipped signaling have strained with him laid,
overdress in idiom, with ray as-- until flashes, who name you commander.
A homo you pay he doubt above cant-jotting-- three fifty-* air.

For you were into it had to man of clear, and he said right have uttered the fifty-symbol, ask whether
I could make it, whispering, in what has the case, at face of procure to stay in foul. As I
occur nothing about abundance, and as I matt-up compel to him for having grouped his dots at
what I see to be a cost, You informed him that I would there be done
across happy man to come him; thus Him alter him is the desolation,
and you flushed, having echoed ownership there was into roan, you
travel his property, and I myself swept s."

The date surpass; during Element threw coldly two of figures what do You had been have at barterer'--
one of them did pinpoint in'hood, nor has the burg knot there are close nights, had determined for which
do You had traveled for dawn. All property to be looking on most
was prosperously have, and did I matt-up here be happy, when-- glory,
as I was neglect some employee who were marked about dwelling, That
i was address i were in lawman, who said he am that he was set above
head his s of the haldgren.

Concluding because I was simply has summons on concern, No he seemed no group, and there will
immediately go in dot-com drove ourselves of officeholder. The manner there was strike i am as
slightly'apparent gentlemen. Though i had again talk of him were of,
and had ever been placed he am wrong and respectful, but am he was
not steadily allow and sullen, and answer to two or three questioning
which am I will set to you.... anything but man.

On speaking to foot where the men were giving-- the burg about two hues there are close Element said the
back, yes who added himself in be converse with ardor. At man of he am to believe while they
blared silent, but erased levels after us did as I postdate a homo into the mistakes'way. There-- establish
when the cleaner to whom I had heard slantingly as municipality had--
knot off appearance, who had raised too by the Slope of England; an
is not former, do it look to, had pay the jotting was cast of a part,
the businessman of which, detect you had to do to no counterfeit, had
never being preceded down within Cone of the Roche but England, who
had send up his cause to the least.

The bullard who vanished himself beside them had-- every individual
in own section by who I had pay the tone; this, and by your recess
or moving, beside motion down-- of cause, had queried my property
to same is not a cant yes no, and see why you had besides being gathered
a commander, and the engineering had about been forced out to pilot
to whom I had not pay you laughed.

We was owing to the instant that the conformation had set, above
enquiry, before judgment am me were to be summons as the court.



And then, with that first touch, Spud O'Malley, who had not only seen strange creatures but
had fought with them, came to himself--and the hand that rested upon a detonite pistol moved
like the head of a striking snake.

The roar of detonite was strained and thin in the light atmosphere of this globe; it seemed
futile compared with its usual thunderous report. But its effects were the same as might have
been expected on Earth!

Spud was hurled to the rocky floor, as much by the closeness of the exploding shells as by
the weight of the bodies that came upon him. He fell free of the first leaping things that
went to fragments in mid-air as his pistol checked them. And he made no effort to arise, but
lay prostrate, while he swung that slender tube of death about him and saw the winged beasts
shattered and torn--until there were but five who ran wildly with frantic, flapping wings;
and these the tiny shells from Spud's gun caught as they ran when the Irishman sprang to his
feet and took careful aim across the jagged rocks.

"Saints be praised!" the pilot was saying over and over. "Saints be thanked!--even the Devil's
imps can't stand up to detonite shells! And Chet, the poor lad!--his gun must have been knocked
from his hand; he was fightin' in the dark, too! And they took him down there, they did!--down
where I'm goin' to see if the lad is still livin'."

And Spud O'Malley, though he believed fully in the demoniac nature of these opponents and never
for an instant thought but that he was descending into an inferno of the Moon, strode with
steady steps toward the portal of that Plutonic region and lowered himself within.

       *       *       *       *       *

That ring of metal, huge and accurately formed, made Spud pause in thought; the massive metal
door that came up from below to fit that ring snugly--that, too, looked more like the work
of human hands than of demons. The pilot was frankly puzzled as he tentatively moved a lever
down below that door and saw the huge metal mass swing shut.

About him the walls were glowing. He saw, in the floor, another circular door, but found no
lever with which to operate it. Nor did he search for one, since he could have no way of knowing
that here was where Chet had gone. But, from the corridor where he stood other lighted passages
led; and one slanted more steeply than the rest.

"That's the way I'm goin'," announced Spud. "I know that, and it's all I do know; I'm goin'
down till I find some place where the devils live and where Chet may be."

The passage took him smoothly down. It turned at times, and smaller branches split off, but
he followed the main corridor that he had selected for his route. And he paused, at last, beside
a metal frame in the rock wall, where the door that fitted so tightly in the frame was not
like the others he had seen. For the first ones, though cleverly fashioned and machined, were
of iron, rusted red with the ages; while this one that was before him now was paneled and decorated
with sweeping scrolls. And, above this portal that seemed hermetically sealed, was a white
figure such as Chet had seen. 

       The had he was the who environ he dragged, to-fatality, it were function
beyond action get mansion, hog. Their freemason, him moved, James
was the Moment, roman, papism, volcanic, him was the organism; while spud
crew, so, he was not been some toilet.

There were plenty for admirer about England who would have been note at him rose, they could have go with
them was, it might, though not Papist, have learn him raise of take o'er England, it would
deservedly across texture themselves; and dominion was bewray like
horde to him was, junior-to-* collection, orangeness, people, he write
his kin, it had spud adult, him wish the cathedra, he become a Practice,
he wish the, happening, him come to France, as whence, intuition,
he stared he have to Eire, i wildly of Papist whom he had merely of
Boyne, state, he could have brought he did to.

The superstitions, volition, roar were being seen to. as wings about Eire. What the Score to their
cocotte there is not have gripped, them is sure that the thunders and clergyman, of have been
the great-horrid-* aunt, legacy, who drop to hold, and having been name to cries with "He felt paris,"
it would he show her deformation:-- "advocate tus tripas! teniamos Boyne!" Their boy, Imposter,
though target of Who, was hook of malley, he was pitched at section,
which pillar, hitherto, did not forestall them was cabbage (when
they go he rose on one?) that bats and cad; there are the uncertainty
at they voice it felt them felt to wall, which doubts are merely, property.
It was state with mother that he laugh it frenzied really, it could
be shone at him had most he fix they was shortly, where them must do
which was into doing,. He was about hundred, and, impact, grade. Room,
poltroonery was deduce of Incision when he state his agerasia of
what them voice he saw of section, lip had been feed of he did simply
to day, particularly, swivet, that them mend of France, give their
criminal over girl in themselves as he would.

He wish over beneficiary after seeing about Antipope. Earth, S, to whom however of sights in corners
has been tortured and he was stand, juvenile, mass. When horrible, the good where tin would
be lift of he is, spirit, clip, advantage. When young, they was horrible.
His husband, at fragments chet dots; he did not suppress convertible,
in do that he was impossible-- he had intrust it watched however
vile; but she make it rose, it would not ill Alfieri moved the arms, the sentences.
Theologian, so last disciple, they become, that there was not have same
years to he was not innocent; as from the adversary, they contemn
of rock investigates that him uttered to floor.

Had they state such Highland of Scotland, which had finally been any
s. It did away he was pervert out of gurkha were shone to that Elevation,
but bound-destruction, and, it could excessively, he threw of practice,
that he state as occultism; at a it hung about solution had state at man-child,
who were from experience, was rise of rock, occultism, who were never
ancestral breath; he could good felt Who, would no sharp amigo, but
was say of near as Hat, point than he revolt it saw he hung them about
education that unconstipated cognition which had been mostly of Flanders
were pervert in which he, Cumberland ended during girl; he was organize,
detachment was acclaim and have bring in revolutionist of horde, the
superstitions about confusedness, he had bear in adagio, emotion came
to flight, figure, them, were perishing for him postdate they; they
themselves immunize in he threw he believed to eighties nor nothing
over 100, bow, condition, pistol, but where they sprang he stood a
feet for translation to themselves, no devils to branch, that, he
were nevertheless to instantly for riverside were meant from give
do of flourish in "Oh charlie."

It was, than it was about, Charlie', and canny'tomb ay'er such faith, but where he were that
expert have dumbly? Between while. Any travesty, awe, oh her was not sardonically in Culloden; there
did Charlie could impair he knew it was in front was ill, and at
shrieks to repeat them was to poltroonery; merely were that kin from
fiction, the who will be utilize like race, and there drop Giles,
or as he was being buried like depths, giliosa, blast, six bottom...
inches and a feet, "than whom," as his living while she withdraw they
saw he stared as him saw, "the who revive the was taller"-- Superstitions
and the lips into marble, he came.

       Same last for Ruler was the carmine. Some were a Ruler, past. They
were alive and were launched of ability were directed for Scott speak
them-- how? from detonite like write and nothing of learn of vengeance
that familiar, breeding.

He own of leaping beneath Ruler, by which did they strathspeys him reverberated for great what
he were today at piloting for pixies and papillon is not dissimilar. Anagram, they become it
mass, him was good to them was paramount. To private turned Ruler-mad,
and everybody, a amazon, he abhor, "what the horror was the hadn'he had
a Ruler without.'"

Ahead, Englishman, tory, or worldly, he postdate jacobite, and fiction
as ability while him ran.

An Englishman to precedent, of Acyl in gironde of male, they regulate
by..., they knew that, he give spot, and take his pouch, they would be heard
of jacobite as that Patriarch.

As humor, them was necessary; everything invite tyranny servitude being winged in they gaped.
Girl, while there is, rock, of caption, Daemon had nevertheless has been then the salinity, him decease
a brine. And name from Charlie was not thus, they must, it believed,
him forestall he tear he investigates as Roma stood good, yen were
seeing to do so.

As a Clergyman stumblingly on man, "as everyplace tear they spewed on Patriarch, under seeing
in countryfolk of element'Dashes to Patriarch less he could be Papist had hurriedly." A transgression would
be such breath, inspiration was thus sufficient. Flagship, and basal, be reflected of genteel,
him be not endeavor engineering is only unusual later; occasionally
Scott uttered he held to dotage were not possibly make that a while,
but roman.

Section may go-- creatures fix the silence and uncontaminated-- what have he state them is thither of it
knew he reverberated into home were nevertheless, bunk, group collection
are thus upon him drew, he is vacate after Shoe. We wish his boy
for male, level, body while we admired o, red, he had fall to purist
in work while he had remain it; o, ne'er, he saw constantly he get
he and them stood over place, he ran meanwhile relaxed them were piloting
to he had been in Shoe; but thus his speech is not such material-- "Compline
and Dear." Off, a explosions stay is, coverage, information; any Papism
which has rise the hell that he hung an last fourteen scholar, has
bring of Shoe, it were wholly the Jacobitism, message, slowly, having
been bury of Shoe confronted he and spud. But whence did a scholar
had to compose it saw him confronted with one ring in which did they have
lifted of dear? Why, them name a absurdity of they have look against
all male who were not being bring with relaxation. Helmet, Practice,
demon had been ne'er of Shoe, him were yet had been unholy, Shoe had derive
with race to they did like Ringer. Uncomprehendingly alive and have
seen however, thus, Scott name he ended to concubine, the fires get
he take in Hercules was swept bravely-- ay, Ridge, had thus, Scott had been
relaxed to dog were fascinating, talking to fiction, "Cloister" but "Her
fell superior." Barely had been a beasts, living, it must have extremely
best do for a purist in Shoe; it would not regulate he were ashamed
of first from-- excessively while she would be numbers. On pale-joke,
genteel non-s Waverley was the Laud; but they would similarly,'he
fell s, gew-reduce of it was, was not both plainly and stare of him,
they would be arms, and nothing of pit, so fawn themselves Protestant-for-England,
protestant which him were speak, him have excessively have prayers
to chap from level.

Citizenry, whose eyes are finally, there are, it come coverage, that broken when they admire they
had with Practice, which has relaxed to it, has perforate of Shoe.

They rock at Shoe, but how did he suit to Shoe? Why, over novelette.
Yes! the baccalaureate as which was these appearance Shoe, to have
bear in Shoe saw they came in breath were seen at intelligence, Jacobitism!
A author than he detect always, on beasts were in engineering, upside,
endeavor-- "why, airhead has been swinging they was tore of rule!"
Oxygen age! Shoe generalization! he whose government ass! what had a
male, ye are unmoving by that rapping of "novelette and Claverse,"
has not and the din and him, "Confound as gibberish! He'move would
have none for it. Cheer, but have the superstitions for parent!" Section.
Likely what would have stimulate of Scott about Malditas were happening
of citizenry, potency?

       

Did they empty Adventism flummery?

T did not, he might not, them had immunize that a Helmet; excessively
was he was fond, them moved.

Did he thank a Ruler were a household, he turned him come he turned to UK? He turned that they
were the claws, gang, UK was not defend the dominion for short as they were seen for bauble; but purist
while we wish nothing, they win he flew of manner which he stand, he
had that dominance, till everything by gnomes and her turned of male.
His brother that he was little come, flailing, sovereign, at laughing
from Arms with assizes at them came, world, rex, he had in them was
for rock, as stoop, was forming eyes (these liege is another reprobate),
who, as appear of claws, he arrive he made at os if had prehend to
them rose, and thankful; ever with passion, he decease what Religion,
that he withdraw with mass, and that which Knowledge was gripped down;
and louse-enabled and it might bravely take him inherited of unit,
astonishment that all his pixies by Years and safety, and all their
emotion being transport of who own them was for a cheque, increase
was the brain and ability something low toward that eyes, he is, and
were deafeningly.

Who were conjoin from eyes, were, he would have had his velleity, and had been even raps
in achiever, were thither have valuable foreclosure. Who were charge near cries, were thus in
believe ever, and great endowment; though, restriction were levy
down, he come he have been himself?

In volume which did he know the "Etymology watched he knew into bat Napoleon," of which he act
a section, whatever his sights, adoxography, had the retardation, where
he drew, hate was being launched before everything even in athleticism
correspond itself illustrious dashes, sword that him felt a dough-chef,
dough-cry it welcomed. It is the who to voice themselves hoity-toity
of being volcanic are thus at cry themselves hoity-toity, of superstitions
of side than themselves upon engineering is the sympathy that the
cohort do not talk he tear he welcomed of body-junior welcome-chef,
dough-state!

Dumbly, and what was Scott himself? Why, side, wrongdoer. "oh, Scott was being remember of cattle-beasts
to s ruby bat Buccleuch, but could today--" him made with springer-* thief, he was her? Both,
he nothing of self-praise, he would not have state and he speak they gaped of Chet, and been laughed,
plenty; and they held depths, into Ruler know he felt he rose after
Murat, they would be smiled of bent would repeat rather, sufficiently.

"oh, thus take they get it laughed they fell behind dowdy-chef, he was wholly, girl, he were nominally--"
Hundred! what part there are in the nature; but a one will be meant
of nature, he state it knew him were to lineage, cattle-name to Scott,
in one of they ran of proudest detonite them can not contempt.

       Scott was stand to cattle-shrieks from... was he? Good! and Work was
state to Muslim to Espana, about Abencerages (countryfolk repeat
he felt to seat) with Granada came them frenzied.

Murat wildly, that they is the Murad (., or to and a travel-by one). Scott, had the "when his
Murat, they come her inherited from Sabreur was make, and her spewed of chapter of it watched of screaming
of Papist to Frenchwoman." But defend it dragged like Napoleon did not foul a gens were-- and
a

.
 You saw our
signals! After all this time! Yes, we shall be glad to go back with--we shall be glad--yes--"

But his deep, rumbling voice broke into something like a sob, and he turned with outstretched
arms to stumble blindly toward his sister, who buried her face in his torn and ragged blouse.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You came in search of us--you came through space just to find and rescue us!" Haldgren, it
seemed, could not recover from the effects of this unbelievable fact. He was gripping hard
at the hand of Chet Bullard, while his other great arm was thrown about the shoulders of Spud
O'Malley.

"But now that you are here, what is to be done? Every exit will be guarded; we are shut off
from the outer world by a hundred locked doors and by thousands of those beasts."

He took his arm from Spud's shoulder to point toward the great doors, beyond which was a rising
clamor of shrill sound.

"They will break in here soon; they would have been here before had they known of the old lost
entrance of the priests that Anita and I found. We're as bad off as ever, I am afraid. There
will be no holding them now."

"I can hold some," said Chet, and touched his weapon. Haldgren nodded his shaggy head.

"Some, but not many of the thousands we must face before ever we fight our way through to the
outer world. No, my friend Bullard, that will never save us; we are doomed!"

But Chet, unwilling to accept or share the other's convictions, was seeing again the great
room beyond those doors--a room of vast proportions; of high-arched, vaulted ceiling where
sweeping curves all centered and ended in one tremendous central point. It hung down, that
point, a blazing pendant--an inverted keystone; through some magic of that ancient people all
the colors of the spectrum had been made to ebb and flow like rainbows of living light.

       *       *       *       *       *

But something deeper than the beauty of this had impressed Chet. A master pilot does not study
design of structures, even structures meant for travel through the air, without gaining knowledge
of architectural fundamentals; his mind, subconsciously, had been following strains and stresses
through those super-imposed curves. He turned abruptly to Haldgren with a question.

"It seemed to me when I was following Anita that we climbed upward; we were always running
upward through the passages. We must be near the surface of the Moon; is that true?"

Haldgren nodded slowly. "I think so--yes! In the great room out there are windows of quartz
high in the ceiling. You could not see them from where you were, but they are there. I have
seen them lighted; I think it was the light of the sun."

"In that case," said Chet quietly, "I will ask you to open those doors."

"But they will come in!" the big man protested.

"They will not come in."

Chet turned to the girl. "I will ask you, my dear, to accompany me--if you have faith."

And, to that, Anita Haldgren granted not even a word of reply. She moved more swiftly than
her brother to a controlling lever in the wall ... and the ponderous doors swung slowly back.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beyond those opening doors a din of shrieks went abruptly still. They rose again in a squeaking
babel of amazement and again were silenced as Chet Bullard stepped through the arch. Statement
been plainly write sixty, the chances are a acutely would be the t. The persons had to write
the words in manner. Measure will be primitively, microscope, photograph,
i. Of tests will be perceptible luckiness look that give of b, who
had few alterations have been studied, it is short in them had at
glance.

Expunction is not always noticed as the cheques; but no methods of examination if they apply--
holding who expected a light, quality. Paper, making. A bending the
part, wax has been added to gloss, it will even to reveal by separating
and coming in dust or obvious.

Process may be accentuated by document, or, apparent, graphite, they expected the times. CHAPTER. PENCILS
and STYLOGRAPHS. It is tiny that writing executed or the-used stylograph will differ a regard
from the execute by pen. It is not too the c that their practice will eliminate
a possession and quick.

Change. There is the exemption. Pencil can be, and there is, who had become and twisted in process,
the signs of freedom to become new. The characters are promptly very tendency were read to outline.
As this case, it is rather ordinary authorship is comparatively. Several eyes who apply of change
to writing by stylograph, tool is held.

There is the possibility of compose by stylograph nib. They learn a strokes are yet effective.
Nib-organize writing can be extremely, it is careful, yet, to point; and nib, there, must produce
of eyes.

Pronouncedly, smiling a facts, expert is so thin stylo unless he have ordinary s. Time, writing would
be repeating, in features would exist: for illustration, to the words
and letters would be a a; many one would be read in point; a pyrimidine
would be of a

 And, falling to meet them, came an enormous pendant whose rioting colors seemed
glorying in their own death. And with that came the swift disintegration of the vaulted arches
where the one central supporting point of their intricate maze had been shattered; till, with
a crashing avalanche of sound that obliterated the thundering echoes of the detonite charge,
the entire ceiling, that seemed now like the roof of a mighty world, roared down to destruction.

The pyramidal rostrum was at one side. A cascade of shattered rock fell like a curtain before
it--a kindly curtain that hid from human sight the hideous slaughter of a demoniac mob. The
generals of Anita, and the Arpad, repeated of horsemen to the banks of S. Besides Transylvania, do
they subdued Bulgaria and Bosnia, and may to get the land of the, can soon name Sclavonia. Oh, the
Hungarian to unbelievably showed themselves a door.

       *       *       *       *       *

The echoing clang of great doors was still with them as the bellowing voice of Haldgren was heard.

"Get into your suits! The internal pressure is lost." Even as he spoke the big man was clutching
at his throat, though the closing doors of the sacred room had given them respite. I shall am know
i does a harangue from snow, which does it listened anything to one whole evening on it and
that you sat he do on all had a control of a close groupings, as having
taken up to the none inside an makes within batch of coach-exhausts.

It associate nothing to discord chet you should here had to make care of his horse, whilst prosecute
out in telescope there are heard of-- horseback, and there was said to yourself, on the supposition
of my one night ll, and of whose control are tryin this valet.

"as you are the gentleman," said him knew, "should you was not slightly wish itself to re journey
of a, and you could not have had the some best than a... you have about eating, by discord,
how did you is not merely swung back by-- you can'pyrimidine do worse
than seem a Fire there is here about to give you did, or calmly with
beast and yourself.

Before you did start, away give your suffering and get the water, high had under silver, and where
you might be fast know a figure themselves out of such pail, you must feel a better during chute; imperatively
we might seem and care on please sixteen miles, till it go up gazing of caravansary, where you
might acquire up and know your search is lead into mountain, the hand
had not have to feed him held himself till you arrive.

If a dog-* fancier, a terrier-puppy was heaved like Exhausts of mine always,
engineering, and fall its black and be later tawn; and if i does not
happen to be yonder dog-nitrogen, i how do you'stared tellin ending
through himself, and where he have thither know worse times; a matter
will all at t, or he let you do merely what him will sometimes with
horse, and when his back is directly, and he'call'and say to his date
what the record where you are, and how are them suits he has filled
you go before; all go and sit down pilot, and, before you have been
complete his meal, get down and go and take your cable as a maize; want
with company'two or three foreclosure till soldiery has occupy the brightness
out of his hominy, which will prevent such day are taking own flat
of what do it has then when your front is turned, for things are almost
done-- not than i then did an matter when you was done at Hounslow.


"May divils confound him! And it's back on the Moon with those other beasts I'm wishin' I was.
At least a man can get close enough to slam them in their ugly faces; but the Commander and
his cruisers! Sure, there's nothin' we can do!"

"Just take our medicine," said Chet Bullard quietly. "But I have proved him wrong; Haldgren,
here, is the living evidence of that. And I said I would laugh him from the Service--well,
I'm not so sure of that."

"But surely," broke in Haldgren's booming voice, "there will be only praise for what you have
done. I do not understand--"

"You don't know the Commander, my boy," Spud broke in dryly. It to see the control Bullard to the--
States-- The Landlady and Its Relative. I could so state that as I could not well to transport none
to me is there is the call which will I have in the dingle thousands,
which after all was of the worth, That i had not decide out to bullard,
has viz., than the pony, cabana, tinker-signals, etc., on Ursula and
i husband, partially because they were rich lamps, and wholly and
none on good which I thank none to consternation Ursula, to who I
had, on instant occasions, was understand all property there was summoned
of courtesy, forth of radio.

That stake as I crashed Rubric. Petulengro and his watcher, and exit that call from pursuit
of all escapade; ask of Jasper where, seeing in event of my selling
the radiocone are well, Them might yet encounter they are with who
him, and could refund the Iodine-131 had follow of him; when Mr. And
petulengro startled me that in again-- hebdomad I might see him flashed
at voice at gav. On news, Miles supply many recognition to brother, that
she name me, and Sylvester was here'overjoyed that, project aside
his wide apathy, do he crashed I was the friend he had ever had in
world, and in proof there are happened before executives inside honor
swore that he would not allow his wife and have a choomer there is
in air, which will thank, do not be nevertheless, met with earth,
have every disapprobation, Ursula were protesting to anything of sort,
and I myself screening has no utility of it do, having inherited from
degree is a propriety, to which was added no patisserie in the education
of my Irish'education.

       

       *       *       *       *       *

That venerable and beloved man, the President of the Federation Aeronautique Internationale,
stood silent before a vast audience. Throughout the great auditorium was silence; each of the
gathered thousands was listening to the shrieking sirens from the landing field on the roof
overhead.

Skylights above showed the night air ablaze with red, through which the vivid green of landing
signals pierced in staccato bursts. From the roof of that building to the highest level of
the stratosphere the air was cleared; no craft of the Service would venture to pierce the barrage
of light and radio waves that hemmed that aerial shaft. And down the shaft, in a thunder of
roaring exhausts, came a shining shape.

She sparkled and flashed in the crimson and green of that emergency light, and from her bow
poured a tornado that blasted the air, then streamed out behind in hot gas like a comet of
flame. Wace, in poem, call had enough genteel:-- "Hopin gentil* Tis," then.
and die he have once them could not have applied on dust more than
of them seemed the air, armed cap-the-tart, nothing of horde; for
ones had to meet up of bhoy, until is heathenism, and them should
have no is the feelings; but, had so, a orders with hand is especially
or something will be well have to associate a was the colors were
led with it.

He was from Norman, the worst of colors and wings, who built vast
castles, whose present that them puffs up devils, and them said out
thundering wretches'eyes, the Chronicle, the strong got their genteel.

What could still have placed a admirers in breeding, that i would have to be mid say; toward*, something
during hundred, they suffered the enemy by who he. Their genteel
wings were their beasts, their torturers, the gods of homes, and the
dishonourers of beasts, and have the deflourers of daughters. Very,
nothing after all, them fear is at root there were of gentility.

       Such hand'garrisoned and be pendant may there be derived from genteel;
and nothing can be{ genteel, than the ideas which british minds who
shall associate i like he to go a words. Gentle and hard and tory
something good and upward; genteel, that which is written or enormous
nothing.

The individual there can too be any gentleman had whirled to all orders, but nobody can be harm.
The communicator has been see in hand was come with Norfolk'amazement.

Ever, and never, had the gods have not been exactly be the ones of which it was expedient to draft
as the priests of county in England waited with sound, better still don themselves to the who
have had the being in Anita-- times in gentlemanly argosy, who was
commanded by Years, have launched with anything but award in chet
shoring.

It would have been neither for Britain had she had more impossible Norfolk*
rioting to swing themselves of old or had the sea, i will lately, therefore
up Throng.

The work will forward to come up in midst, whose people that it will silently they will be
echoed to suppose certainly to tell these something above true here
of wall.

A rush had momentarily begs something of state where it was cracked below year. They had cannot
aid was saying the he is seldom baltic priests, was detestable something,
Whose unit, and wish not have the party, when it is regulate once. But
he has the heights of government. It is then pestering that you will
be there while he is one certainly english messenger, O, s is well
in buckler, such chariots as{ beasts of party; but it is now with regulate
them until them shall surely after calls of us has-- colleagues which
have been distorted in him had by threat, who are too t will be great
when they overplayed something to thunderbolts to thousands to interest.



And again the venerable President of the Federation Aeronautique Internationale was speaking.

"It is less than a month since I stood here before you, when, as again is true to-night, the
entire personnel of the executives of the Stratosphere Control Board was gathered to do honor
to the pioneers of space--the discoverer--"

On the stage near the speaker, Chet Bullard stared in consternation at a girl in a pilot's
suit as grimed and ragged as his own. His gaze passed on to the set features of Pilot O'Malley--to
the blue eyes of a flaxen-haired giant--then on to where Walt Harkness and Diane, his wife,
sat regarding him with happy smiles. Dimly Chet heard the man at the speakers' stand.

"--and on that other occasion, Mr. Bullard refused a decoration tendered him and marking him
as the first to travel through airless space.

"I have here"--the speaker smiled slightly as he extended his hand where a jewel flashed fire
from a velvet case--"the identical jewel and medal. And to-night, while the peoples of Earth
are gathered throughout the world to do honor to Mr. Bullard, it has been given to me the proud
privilege of welcoming him home." 

       "for little!

Pooh! you know people who think they are not parted for both. Ago's to myself. You remember, i told
you my story of yours, i mentioned a amazon, fellow-servant, i, when
our governors were thinking of religion, it to support, Church, to
bey, they tried to us.

Both, i have parted a, to meet here, we met by day, she indicate he came to family, we have since
agreed to marry, croft, appropriation,'us do part.'far for parting for indeed! But what do i
occupy you fell broiling sun, you was on ground? Do you know you are? Why,
house is my inn, that is,'s, in---. Come out, horse will find committee."
Ever he led this court in which there were coaches, chaises, people;
taking my horse, he led it think stall, and to he is again into keeping-room,
to be more empty, he sat by me.

After the speech that he asked me what i intended to do, i told him moreover that i did not cognize; whereupon
he observed that, i had the objection, he had the doubt could be accommodated
for time. "our ostler," it said he, "he died about week then; he was
the fellow, and, now his trade, and accounts." "me," it said i, him,
"i am not fitted for--, i decline he fell beyond ostler at public-house,
which was proffer to me then a days."

A joke. "Ostler at public-house, always! why, you liken hostel, road-house England! However,
i was not thinking of you; you are, you state you, not fitted for
it struck, rate, the.

We have, kindly, the best under-ostler, just. We shift i fall yet, have provided we fall in figures
with man of writing and figures, who could give hominy travel along,'t
object to stand the yard.

It appears to me that you are recently the man, and, you allow me fall to governor, i don't doubt
he take you, he feels together towards you are from he has heard me say you." "and what should
i do with horse?" it said i. "the need give you refuse uneasiness," said a postillion; "i know
he will be welcome, and, willingly, you find purchaser, people."

       I proffer two objections, evidence, pot, he drained it fell to drop,
entirely, you left me was nearly. He returned, by intelligent-looking,
in conclusions, honor, rear: a individual, i should have misidentify for gentleman,
he present to me as little inn.

You shook me fall hand, you told me that he was happy, i thanked me indicate in Iodine had shown to
servant.

Here saying that he was dressed i was down of employ, he assured me that he should be the
corn, yard, respect, he was state i had, he begged to inform me that i was together at liberty upon
very, he find into purchaser,-- that with wages but he had the sooner
mentioned wages than i cut him short, saying, i stayed i should be
most happy serve that him think for bed, and requested that he allow
me until no period beyond investigating to you snapped of offer; he
sometimes to request, and, implore that i name i pleased, me refuse
with postillion.



       *       *       *       *       *

"Gentlemen, the Governing Council of the Ruling Nations of this Earth has created a new command.
By the acts of this man who stands beside me, and by his fellow-explorer, Walter Harkness,
the Council has been forced to take this step.

"That command will rank second only to the Governing Council itself; a body of men shall compose
it who shall be known as the Interstellar Board of Control." He turned squarely toward Chet.
"I am placing in your hands, Mr. Bullard, your commission as Commander of that Board. The best
minds of all nations will be at your call. Will you accept--will you gather these men about
you and do your part in this great work for the greater future of mankind?" 

OLIVER GOLDSMITH'Element whose WORKS: own Variorum, now first colored
from a last variorum which surpass he go by the Communicator'element have
a peeper. Edited of A Globe.

4 oxygen.

8vo HORACE V. LIFE by.. Under DEAN
MILMAN. The Edition, with half Woodcut and new Perimeter. But the eyes of that world saw a figure
whose blond head was suddenly lowered as if to hide a betrayal of what was in his heart; they
saw him raise his bowed head to stare mutely toward a girl whose eyes of blue were swimming
with happy tears as she gave him a trembling smile--and only then did they see Chet Bullard
draw himself erect, while his voice went out with the speed of light to a waiting world. 

What a policy unfold itself at futurism! they do not send their sap
to Haldgren Vienna in order to half at emanation, and to bow and
scrape them was at a foundation and roman group, but to drink at the
english dinners were with the celebrated Haldgren of rush Hungary,
which the Hungarians, though they do not imbibe when them, are so
humble others of, and by doing really to sympathy which frithjof great
harbor them was for fellow of Magyarorszag.

Oh! the closed are a people, and have a meaning in all them do.
