"'Mrs.' here and 'Mrs.' there, certificated and teaching. It's all very well, but I'm not sure
they don't go too far in this teaching business. No amount of teaching will--Well, it's there,
so what's the use? I expect Eve knew how to handle Cain right enough."

"He wasn't very well brought up, though, Nannie," I said.

"Poor child!" said Nannie. "How do we know it wasn't Abel's fault? He may have been an aggravating
child; some are born so, and I've seen a child, many a time, go on at another till he's almost
worried him into a frenzy just saying, 'I see you,' over and over again, does it sometimes.
Children will do it, of course; besides, there were no commandments then, and you can't expect
children to do right without rules and regulations. That's all discipline is, rules and regulations,
which is commandments, so to speak."

"You think, then, Nannie," I said, "that Eve forgot to tell Cain not to kill Abel?"

"Well," said Nannie, "Eve had a lot to do; we can't blame her. She must have had a lot to do.
Think what a worry Adam must have been: he had no experience, no nothing; he couldn't be a
help to a woman, brought up as he was, always thinking of himself as first, as of course he
was! Now, there's Parker--he is a good husband: he rolls the beef on Sunday to save Mrs. Parker
trouble, and prepares the vegetables; he is a good husband, no trouble in the house whatsoever.
He never brings in dirt, Mrs. Parker says, wipes his feet ever so before he comes, on the finest
day just the same."

I thought the comparison a little hard on Adam, but still I didn't say so, and Nannie reverted
to the modern nurse, after informing me that men and horses were sacred beasts!

"Well, about nurses, 'Mrs.' before a nurse's name doesn't soothe a fretful child, nor make
her more patient or loving. It might make her less patient, if she took to wishing the 'Mrs.'
was real instead of sham; some women are like that, all for marrying. I dare say," said Nannie,
when going over her experiences, "my face did look blank when I missed all my treasures, but
f said nothing, although it was a blow when I thought of all the lovely times you had had with
that rocking-horse. You remember the hole in it? Well, that was cut out solid because of all
the things that were inside that rocking-horse; almost all the things that had been lost for
years we found in that horse. My gold chain, for one thing, to say nothing of other things.
The tail came out, and that is how the things got lost. The boys, always up to mischief, just
popped anything they came across down that hole and put in the tail again, so no one knew anything
about it. Well, then, your father lost something very special, I forget what, and there was
a to-do! And Jane said she believed there was a power of things down that rocking-horse, so
we got Jane's sister's young man, who was a carpenter, or by way of being, to come and cut
out a square block out of the underneath--well, the stomach--of that horse--and then we found
things! Things we had lost for years. Then we put the block back, and no one would have noticed
particularly, not unless they had looked. Well, that's what I missed, the rocking-horse, but
still I said nothing. Then we had tea out of new cups, and still I said nothing, because tea-cups
will get broken, and you can't expect young girls to take care of cups like we did. The kettle-holder
was gone! Then Mrs. David came in. Oh! she is lovely and like your mother in some ways,--the
ways of going round and speaking to every one,--and she laid her hand on Betty's head, just
as I've seen your mother do a hundred times on yours, and that was hard to bear. Anyhow, it's
a good thing it wasn't some one else who got Hames. There 's that to be thankful for. It begins
with 'Z,' you know."

"Nannie!" I said.

"Z for Zebra," said Nannie.

When the new nursery was all ready, Nannie was sent for. A dozen times that day I ran up that
narrow staircase, and in the morning I laid the tea to see how it would look, and it looked
so pretty that I left it. At four o'clock the fire was lighted and the kettle was put on to
boil. Nannie drove up in a four wheeler. I was in the hall to meet her. She lingered to look
at everything. She went round and round the dining-room, up to the drawing-room, even into
the spare room, but no word of nursery. "Which is my room?" she said.

"It's upstairs," I said. "Won't you come and look at it?"

"There's no hurry, is there, miss?"

I could see it was the nursery floor she dreaded.

"Well, there is rather a hurry, Nannie," I said. "I am so anxious to see if you like all the
house."

At last I got her upstairs. I threw open the nursery door. It was too sudden, no doubt. At
the sight of the kettle, the rocking-horse, the tea-set, she burst into tears.

"Dear, dear Nannie," I said, "it is your own nursery; it's all from Hames."

She paused in her sobs. "The robin mug's wrong," she said, and she moved it to the opposite
side of the table; "he always sat there." "He" applied to a little brother who had died, not
to the mug.

"It's a very small nursery, Nannie," I said apologetically.

"Well, there are no children to make it untidy," she answered.

So Nannie and I settled down in our nursery, and through the darkening of that first evening
she talked to me of my mother. It seems to me very wonderful how one woman can so devotedly
love the children of another, but was it not greatly for the love of that other woman that
Nannie loved us so much? It is her figure, I know, that Nannie sees when she shuts her eyes
and re-peoples the nursery in her dreams,--that lovely mother, the center of that nursery and
home; that mother so quick to praise, so loath to blame, so ready to find good in everything,
so tender to suffering, so pitiful to sin!

"Tell me about her when she was quite young, Nannie," I said.

And Nannie talked on, telling me the stories I knew by heart and loved so dearly; and then,
I remember, she started up.

"What is it, Nannie?" I asked.

"I thought she was calling," she replied; "I often seem to hear her voice."

Dear Nannie! I believe she is ready to answer that call at any moment, for all the love of
her new nursery.

That is how I came to live in London.

Chapter VIII

Most people, I imagine, who live in London are asked by their relatives
and friends who live in the country to shop for them. My post is often
 nothing more upsetting than on a very hot summer's morning, or a wet
winter's one, to find an envelope on my plate, or beside it, addressed
in Cousin Anastasia's large handwriting. "Dearest," the letter inside
it begins, "if" (heavily underlined) "you should be passing Paternoster
Row, will you choose me a nice little prayer-book, without a cross
on it, please; people tell me they are cheaper there than elsewhere,
prayer-books, I mean, for Jane, who is going to be confirmed. She
is such a nice clean girl. I do hope she will be as clean after her
confirmation, but one never can tell. In any case I feel I ought to give
her something, and a prayer-book, under the circumstances, seems the
most suitable thing."

Jane, I remember, is a kitchen-maid. Of course I never pass Paternoster Row, but that to a
country cousin of Anastasia's mental caliber is not worth consideration. She has no knowledge
of geography, London's or otherwise, and is doubtless one of those people who think New Zealand
is another name for Australia.

On another occasion she writes to say that Martha, the head housemaid, "such an excellent servant,"
(all heavily under lined), who has been with them seventeen years, is going to marry a nice,
clean widower with six children. She must give her a nice present; "nice" is underlined several
times. She has heard that in the Edgeware Road there are to be had, complete in case, for three-and-sixpence,
excellent clocks. She doesn't know the name of the shop, but she believes it begins with "P,"
and if I could look in as I pass, she would be most grateful. As will be guessed, Anastasia
is a wealthy woman with no sense of humor. She knows she has none, and she says she doesn't
know what rich people want it for. Of course for poor people it is an excellent thing, because
it enables them to look at the bright side of things; but as Anastasia's things, life in particular,
are bright on all sides, she doesn't need that particular sense.

Then there is another country cousin she is so sweet and diffident about asking me to do anything,
that I feel I ought willingly to look into every shop window in the Edgeware Road beginning
with "P" or any other letter, however wet or hot the day! And I am not sure that I wouldn't!
Her writing is as meek as Anastasia's is aggressive, and she never descends to the transparency
of an underlined "if." She says, would I mind sending her a book, called so-and-so, by such
and such an author, price so much? It is all plain sailing with Cousin Penelope. She knows
just what she wants and where to get it; so much so that I sometimes wonder why she doesn't
send straight to the shop. But country cousins never do that; for wherein would lie the use
of London cousins, if they didn't shop for their country cousins? How would they occupy their
time? She would like me please to get it at Bumpus's, because they are so very civil and they
knew her dear father. I might mention his name if I thought fit! Now, I know quite well that
it is impossible that any one at Bumpus's, be he ever so venerable, can ever have known Cousin
Penelope's father. The name, being Smith, may no doubt be familiar. Of course Cousin Penelope
would repay any expense I incurred. In fact she must insist on so doing.

"Insist" seems too strong a word to apply to any power that Cousin Penelope could enforce.
It would be something so gentle; persistent, perhaps, but insistent? Never! "I beg, I implore,
I entreat," would all be suitable, but "I insist" does not suggest Cousin Penelope.

Dear Cousin Penelope, we are told, had a love-story in her youth, the sadness of which ruined
her life. It must have been a very beautiful thing, that sorrow, to have made her what she
is. One feels that it must be a very wonderful love that is laid away in the wrappings of submission
and tied with the ribbons of resignation. There is assuredly no bitterness about it, and I
sometimes wonder if one's own sorrow which tears and tugs at one's heart will some day leave
such a record of holiness and patience on one's face! I am afraid not. I look in the glass,
but I see nothing in the reflection which in the least resembles Cousin Penelope, nor can I
believe that time will do it, nor am I brave enough to wish it. I cannot yet pray for a peace
like hers. People say time can do everything, but

     "Time is
       Too slow for those who wait,
       Too swift for those who fear,
       Too long for those who grieve,
       Too short for those who rejoice,
       But for those who love Time is
                           Eternity."

So it is written on a sun-dial I know, and when I have a sun-dial of my own, those words shall
be written thereon.

I think time lies heavily sometimes on Hugh's hands. He said one day, "The days pass by, Betty,
and we don't grow up!"

To return to booksellers. There is "Truslove and Hanson" in my more or less immediate neighborhood,
who are civil to a degree, but they did not know Cousin Penelope's father, therefore they are
not specially qualified to sell a book to his daughter! So to Bumpus I must go, and I love
it. A bookshop is a joy to me; the feel of books, the smell of books, the look of books, I
love! I even enjoy cutting the pages of a book, which I believe every one does not enjoy.

Then there is another country cousin, Pauline. When her letter comes, I open it with mixed
feelings, in which the feeling of fondness predominates. One can't help loving her. She never
asks one to shop for her, but with her, which is perhaps an even greater test of friendship.
On a particularly hot day, I remember, a letter came from Pauline which announced her immediate
arrival. I was, waiting in the hall for her, ready to start, which is a stipulation she always
makes, as she says it is such a pity to waste time. She greeted me in the same rather tempestuous
manner that I am accustomed to at the hands of Betty and Hugh, and then she ran down the steps
again to tell the cabman that he had a very nice horse, which she patted, and said, "Whoa,
mare!" She always does that. She then asked the cabman how long he had been driving, whether
it was difficult to drive at night, and whether it was true he could only see his horse's ears;
and I think she asked if he had any children, but of that I am not quite sure. If she didn't,
it was a lapse of memory on her part. Even the cab-runner interested her. Hadn't I noticed
what a sad face he had?

I said I hadn't noticed anything except that he was rather dirty. Pauline said, "Of course
he is dirty; what would you be, if you ran after cabs all day?" I wondered.

Talking of cab-runners, I told her of the children's party I went to with Cousin Penelope,
who, very much afraid that she was late, said in her sweetest manner to a man who opened the
cab-door for us, "Are we late?" And the man answered, "I really cannot say, madam; I have only
just this moment arrived myself."

He was in rags, which I did not tell her; the sponge cake would have stuck in her throat at
tea if I had. But I gave him something for his ready wit, and wished for weeks afterwards that
I had plunged into the darkness after him. "What a charming man!" said Cousin Penelope. But
to return to Pauline.

"What a glorious day we are going to have!" she said. "It is good of you to say I may stay
the night, and if I go to a ball, you won't mind? I have brought a small box,--as you see."

I did see, and to my mind its size bordered on indecency. I like a box to look sufficiently
large to take all I think a woman ought to need for a night's stay. Pauline often assures me
it does hold everything, squashed tight, of course. I say it must be squashed very tight, and
she says it is. "That's the beauty of the present-day fashion of fluffy things: everything
is so easily squashed, and yet you can't squash them; an accordion-pleated thing, for instance."

To a man whose admiration for a woman is gauged by the amount of luggage she can travel without,
Pauline would prove irresistible. I know one who prides himself on his packing, and who has
a horror of much luggage. He was all packed ready to go to Scotland, when his wife asked him
if he could lend her a collar-stud for her flannel shirts, and he said, "Yes, but you must
carry it yourself, I'm full up!"

To that man Pauline, I am sure, would be very attractive.

When Pauline and I started off on our shopping expedition, she demurred at taking a hansom,
although she loves driving in them; but she said 'buses were so much more amusing. "People
in 'buses say such funny things," she said, and so they do. The old lady in particular who,
when the horse got his leg over the trace without hurting himself or any one else, got up and
announced to the 'bus in general: "There, I always did say I hated horses and dogs," and sat
down again. I loved her for that and for other things too, among them her apple-cheeks and
poke bonnet.

Another reason why I insisted upon a hansom is that Pauline is not to be trusted in a 'bus;
her interest in her fellow-creatures is embarrassing. I have, moreover, sat opposite babies
in 'buses with Pauline, and where a baby is concerned, she has no self-control. So I was firm,
and we started off in a hansom. I was continually besought to look at some delicious baby,
first this side, then that.

Pauline calmly avers that she would go mad if she lived in London. She couldn't stand seeing
so many beautiful children, or babies, beautiful or otherwise. It is curious how babies in
perambulators hold out their hands to Pauline as she passes, and laugh and gurgle at her.

Once in Piccadilly, beautiful babies became less plentiful, and Pauline turned her thoughts
and sympathies to horses and bearing-reins. She was instantly plunged into the depths of despair.
Couldn't I do something, she asked, to remedy such a crying evil? She said it was the duty
of every woman in London--Something in the catalogue she was carrying arrested her attention,
and what it was the duty of every woman to do I am not sure. I did not ask, but was grateful
for the peace which ensued.

Pauline was glad the sales were on. She loved them, and yet she didn't like them, because she
didn't think they brought out the best side of a woman's character. "I think," she said, "a
woman's behavior at sales is a test, don't you?"

I said I thought her behavior as regarded swing-doors was a surer one. She said she hadn't
thought of that.

"But I know what you mean; I do dislike the flouncing, pushing woman. I think every one should
be taught to be courteous and gentle, don't you?" She added, "I hate being pushed."

I told her of a woman next me in a 'bus one day, who said, "You're a-sittin' on me!" How I
rose and politely begged her pardon, whereupon she said, "Now you're a-standin' on me!" And
we agreed that there is no pleasing some people.

Pauline returned to the perusal of the catalogue, in which she had put a large cross against
the picture of a coat and skirt. She said she was stock-size. She didn't suppose any really
smart women were. "Or would own to it," I suggested, but she didn't answer; she never does
if she detects any savor of malice in a remark. She was very anxious I should admire the illustration.
I did, but I felt it my duty as a London cousin to a country cousin to tell her that the illustration
might lead her to expect too much. She warmly agreed that of course as regarded the figure,
etc., the illustration was misleading, because she, of course, could never look so beautifully
willowy as that. She was inclined to come out where the illustration went in, and she could
never be so slanty, never; but apart from that, of course the coat and skirt would be exactly
as it was pictured. Her figure would be to blame, of course. Her figure happens to be a very
pretty one, but she didn't give me time to say so. I repeated that I should not put implicit
faith in the illustration. She was a little hurt. She did not think it right to cast aspersions
on the character of so respectable a firm as that whose name headed the catalogue. I said I
didn't see it quite in the same light. Pauline looked at me reproachfully, and said drawing
a lie was as bad as telling one.

The argument was beyond me; besides, I like Pauline to look reproachfully at me, she is so
pretty. Being as pretty as she undoubtedly is, I often wonder why she is not more effective.

