 In Susan's case,
as recorded by Wordsworth, what connection had the corner of Wood Street with a mountain ascending,
a vision of trees, and a nest by the Dove? Why should the song of a thrush cause bright volumes
of vapor to glide through Lothbury, and a river to flow on through the vale of Cheapside? As
she stood at that corner of Wood Street, a mop and a pail in her hand most likely, she heard
the bird singing, and straight-way began pining and yearning for the days of her youth, forgetting
the proper business of the pail and mop. Even so we are moved by the sight of some of Mr. Cruikshank's
works--the "Busen fuhlt sich jugendlich erschuttert," the "schwankende Gestalten" of youth
flit before one again,--Cruikshank's thrush begins to pipe and carol, as in the days of boyhood;
hence misty moralities, reflections, and sad and pleasant remembrances arise. He is the friend
of the young especially. Have we not read, all the story-books that his wonderful pencil has
illustrated? Did we not forego tarts, in order to buy his "Breaking-up," or his "Fashionable
Monstrosities" of the year eighteen hundred and something? Have we not before us, at this very
moment, a print,--one of the admirable "Illustrations of Phrenology"--which entire work was
purchased by a joint-stock company of boys, each drawing lots afterwards for the separate prints,
and taking his choice in rotation? The writer of this, too, had the honor of drawing the first
lot, and seized immediately upon "Philoprogenitiveness"--a marvellous print (our copy is not
at all improved by being colored, which operation we performed on it ourselves)--a marvellous
print, indeed,--full of ingenuity and fine jovial humor. A father, possessor of an enormous
nose and family, is surrounded by the latter, who are, some of them, embracing the former.
The composition writhes and twists about like the Kermes of Rubens. No less than seven little
men and women in nightcaps, in frocks, in bibs, in breeches, are clambering about the head,
knees, and arms of the man with the nose; their noses, too, are preternaturally developed--the
twins in the cradle have noses of the most considerable kind. The second daughter, who is watching
them; the youngest but two, who sits squalling in a certain wicker chair; the eldest son, who
is yawning; the eldest daughter, who is preparing with the gravy of two mutton-chops a savory
dish of Yorkshire pudding for eighteen persons; the youths who are examining her operations
(one a literary gentleman, in a remarkably neat nightcap and pinafore, who has just had his
finger in the pudding); the genius who is at work on the slate, and the two honest lads who
are hugging the good-humored washerwoman, their mother,--all, all, save, this worthy woman,
have noses of the largest size. Not handsome certainly are they, and yet everybody must be
charmed with the picture. It is full of grotesque beauty. The artist has at the back of his
own skull, we are certain, a huge bump of philoprogenitiveness. He loves children in his heart;
every one of those he has drawn is perfectly happy, and jovial, and affectionate, and innocent
as possible. He makes them with large noses, but he loves them, and you always find something
kind in the midst of his humor, and the ugliness redeemed by a sly touch of beauty. The smiling
mother reconciles one with all the hideous family: they have all something of the mother in
them--something kind, and generous, and tender.

