On that day the portrait of the King of Rome was brought to Napoleon.  He needed some gentle
emotion to divert his mind from this state of anxious suspense.  He held this portrait long
on his knees, contemplating it with delight, and said that it was the most agreeable surprise
he had ever received, and repeated several times in a low tone, "My good Louise! This is a
charming attention!"  On the Emperor's countenance there rested an expression of happiness
difficult to describe, though the first emotions excited were calm and even melancholy.  "The
dear child," was all that he said.  But he experienced all the pride of a father and an Emperor
when by his orders officers, and even soldiers, of the old guard came to see the King of Rome.
The portrait was placed on exhibition in front of the tent; and it was inexpressibly touching
to see these old soldiers uncover themselves with respect before this image, in which they
sought to find some of the features of Napoleon.  The Emperor had at this moment the expansive
joy of a father who knows well that next to him his son has no better friends than his old
companions in endurance and glory.

At four o'clock in the morning, that is to say one hour before the battle opened, Napoleon
felt a great exhaustion in his whole person, and had a slight chill, without fever, however,
and threw himself on his bed. Nevertheless, he was not as ill as M. de Segur states.  He had
had for some time a severe cold that he had somewhat neglected, and which was so much increased
by the fatigue of this memorable day that he lost his voice almost entirely.  He treated this
with the soldier's prescription, and drank light punch during the whole night, which he spent
working in his cabinet without being able to speak.  This inconvenience lasted two days; but
on the 9th he was well, and his hoarseness almost gone.

After the battle, of every six corpses found, one would be French and five Russian.  At noon
an aide-de-camp came to inform the Emperor that Count Auguste de Caulaincourt, brother of the
Duke of Vicenza, had been struck by a ball.  The Emperor drew a deep sigh, but said not a word;
for he well knew that his heart would most likely be saddened more, than once that day.  After
the battle, he expressed his condolences to the Duke of Vicenza in the most touching manner.

Count Auguste de Caulaincourt was a young man full of courage, who had left his young wife
a few hours after his marriage to follow the French army, and to find a glorious death at the
battle of La Moskwa.  He was governor of the pages of the Emperor, and had married the sister
of one of his charges.  This charming person was so young that her parents preferred that the
marriage should not take place until he returned from the campaign, being influenced in this
decision by the fate of Prince Aldobrandini after his marriage with Mademoiselle de la Rochefoucault
before the campaign of Wagram.  General Auguste de Caulaincourt was killed in a redoubt to
which he had led the cuirassiers of General Montbrun, who had just been fatally wounded by
a cannon-ball in the attack on this same redoubt.

The Emperor often said, in speaking of generals killed in the army, "Such an one is happy in
having died on the field of honor, while I shall perhaps be so unfortunate as to die in my
bed."  He was less philosophical on the occasion of Marshal Lannes's death, when I saw him,
while at breakfast, weeping such large tears that they rolled over his cheeks, and fell into
his plate.  He mourned deeply for Desaix, Poniatowski, and Bessieres, but most of all for Lannes,
and next to him Duroc.

During the whole of the battle of the Moskwa the Emperor had attacks resembling stone in the
bladder.  He had been often threatened with this disease unless he was more prudent in his
diet, and suffered much, although he complained little, and only when attacked by violent pain
uttered stifled groans.  Now, nothing causes more anxiety than to hear those complain who are
unaccustomed to do so; for then one imagines the suffering most intense, since it is stronger
than a strong man.  At Austerlitz the Emperor said, "Ordener  is worn out.  There is only one
time for military achievement in a man's life.  I shall be good for six years longer, and after
that I shall retire."

The Emperor rode over the field of battle, which presented a horrible spectacle, nearly all
the dead being covered with wounds; which proved with what bitterness the battle had been waged.
The weather was very inclement, and rain was falling, accompanied by a very high wind.  Poor
wounded creatures, who had not yet been removed to the ambulances, half rose from the ground
in their desire not to be overlooked and to receive aid; while some among them still cried,
"Vive l'Empereur!" in spite of their suffering and exhaustion.  Those of our soldiers who had
been killed by Russian balls showed on their corpses deep and broad wounds, for the Russian
balls were much larger than ours.  We saw a color-bearer, wrapped in his banner as a winding-sheet,
who seemed to give signs of life, but he expired in the shock of being raised.  The Emperor
walked on and said nothing, though many times when he passed by the most mutilated, he put
his hand over his eyes to avoid the sight.  This calm lasted only a short while; for there
was a place on the battlefield where French and Russians had fallen pell-mell, almost all of
whom were wounded more or less grievously.  And when the Emperor heard their cries, he became
enraged, and shouted at those who had charge of removing the wounded, much irritated by the
slowness with which this was done.  It was difficult to prevent the horses from trampling on
the corpses, so thickly did they lie.  A wounded soldier was struck by the shoe of a horse
in the Emperor's suite, and uttered a heartrending cry, upon which the Emperor quickly turned,
and inquired in a most vehement manner who was the awkward person by whom the man was hurt.
He was told, thinking that it would calm his anger, that the man was nothing but a Russian.
"Russian or French," he exclaimed, "I wish every one removed!"

Poor young fellows who were making their first campaign, being wounded to the death, lost courage,
and wept like children crying for their mothers. The terrible picture will be forever engraven
on my memory.

The Emperor urgently repeated his orders for removing the wounded quickly, then turned his
horse in silence, and returned to his headquarters, the evening being now far advanced.  I
passed the night near him, and his sleep was much disturbed; or, rather, he did not sleep at
all, and repeated over and over, restlessly turning on his pillow, "Poor Caulaincourt!  What
a day!  What a day!"

CHAPTER IV.

