The election of Donald Trumpas Presidentof the United States left many progressivesand liberals shocked and bewildered.  During his election campaign, Trump promotedviolence and appealed toracism, nativism, xenophobia, Islamophobia, ableism, andmisogyny. And, as Douglas Kellner putsit,he brags, bullies, rants, displays extreme narcissism, and is a “bullshit artist” (49). So why did so many Americans vote for this “authoritarian demagogue”(57)? The books by Kellner andJohn B. Judiswere completed after Trump’s Republican nomination but prior to his electionas president, whileArlie Russell Hochschild’s book was completed during the Republican primaries. Still, they help to explain the rise and “success” of Trump. The works by Kellner and Judis also raiseand help to address the question of how we should politically interpret Trump: Is he a rightwing populist or closer to a fascist? Relatedly, is he a threat to liberal or constitutional democracy?

Kellner argues that a crucial enabling factor of Trump’s rise is that his presidential campaign became a “media spectacle.” He writes: “By ‘media spectacle’ I am referring to media constructs that present events which disrupt ordinary and habitual flows of information, and which become popular stories which capture the attention of the media and the public, and circulate through broadcasting networks, the Internet, social networking, smart phones, and other new media and communication technologies” (3). Early examples of media spectacles are the O.J. Simpson murder trial and the Clinton sex scandals, bothenabled by the rise of cable news networks. Trump’s election campaign as media spectacle blends celebrity, entertainment, and controversial and inflammatory politics. The groundwork for his campaign as media spectacle waslaid withhis business mode of operation, as described in several of his books, involvinga ruthless capitalist mindsetof winning at all costsand the art of branding the Trump name, and with the development of his TV personalityin“The Apprentice” and the subsequent “The Celebrity Apprentice.”Trumpkicked off the spectacle on June 16, 2015 with hisdramaticannouncement ofrunning for president: In a staged manner, he (and Melania)came downthe escalator in Trump Tower(an image rebroadcasted adnauseam),and then he mentionedmany American social and economic shortcomingsthat he as president would overcome, includingthatMexico is “sending people that have lots of problems...They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people” (10). Trump’s media dominance and manipulation since then has been almost constant, aided by his incessant Tweeting.

A significant part of Kellner’s short book offers a description of the Trump media spectacle from June 2016 to early October 2016. 

Here Kellner covers words and images of the campaign that are familiar and ingrained in the public consciousness, reflecting that the campaign indeed was a media spectacle: “America First,” “USA! USA! USA!,” “Radical Islam,” “Melania’s plagiarism,” “praising Putin,” “attacks on the Khan family,”“the election is rigged,” “release of tax returns,” etc. In his description of the Trump campaign, Kellner does not hide his contempt for Trump, as shownin the section title “RNC Day 4: The Red Faced Orange Man Rants” (54).  On a deeper levelof assessment, heargues in some detail that Trump fits Erich Fromm’sanalysis of the authoritarian character, as exemplified by, among others,Hitler and Himmler, as “sadistic, excessively narcissistic, malignantly aggressive[as in his conduct toward ‘losers’ and women who challenge him], vengeably destructive[as in his criticism of bias by Judge GonzaloCuriel presiding overthe Trump University fraudcase], and necrophiliac [his life reflects Fromm’s description of the necrophiliac asa person whose emotional emptiness needs to be filled with constant new acquisitions, conquests, etc.]”.

More broadly, Kellner claims that there are important parallels between the rise of fascism in the 1930s and the rise of Trump, writing that attending one of Trump’s rallies reminded him of Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will (21) and that Trump’s arrival at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland followed the scenario of Hitler arriving in Nuremberg as captured in Riefenstahl’s movie (45). In my view, this imaginative association is a bit puzzling: one event shows the frightful discipline of hundreds of thousands of people in thrall of their leader, but the other event shows a banal celebrity festivity beamed across the globe. There is a difference between a spectacle in its own rightand a media spectacle.  At any rate, on Kellner’s account, the Trump supporters display similar“anger and rage” toward the establishment as the Nazi supportersdid, show similar“idolatry toward their Führer,”have been similar victims of “economic deprivation, political alienation, humiliation, and a variety of hard times,” and are similarly lured by “restorative nostalgia” and promises to make their country great again (21, 24). In terms of outer personality,though, Kellner maintains that Trump resembles the buffoonish Mussolini rather than the repressed and serious Hitler (27-28).

Kellner also notes some differences between Trumpism and Nazism, such as the lack of a party apparatus behind the rise of Trump, the absence of “disciplined cadres that the Nazisused to seize and hold power,” and Trump’sclaim that “his deal-making skills as a supercapitalist billionaire ... credentials him to be the President” (22, 27). All in all, he thinks that Trump is best described as an “authoritarian populist” or “neo-fascist” (20, 26).Trump is a populist in that he presents himself as the “voice of the forgotten men and women,” those left behind by corrupt elites (exemplified by Hillary Clinton and Goldman Sachs), and he scapegoats outsiders as a threat to the white majority. Historically, Trump was preceded by the populist Tea Party and rightwing populistssuch asGeorge Wallace and Pat Buchanan(22-23). For Kellner, Trump’s populism with its promise of improving the economic condition of his supporters is a sham andrefuted by his exploitation of workersas well as by his lifestyle (21, 32, 33).

Kellner concludes that Trump’s political success would burden us with a malignant and aggressive leader who has nuclear weaponsat his disposal, constituting “a clear and present danger to U.S. democracy and an American Nightmare ... that threatens world peace and global stability” (39; see also 95). A strength of Kellner’s discussion is that he emphasizes a distinctive feature of Trumpism –the effectiveblending of celebrity politics and media spectacle –but a weakness is that he too quickly designates Trump’srightwing populism as a form of fascism.1Judis’sbook makes a strong case against this equation.He offers a moredetailed account of American populism and, most importantly, gives it a different political and historical interpretation. On his account, populism in Americais best understood as a response to a failure in democratic representation: significant groups in society, compromising the “people,” no longer accept the prevailing view of the economic andpolitical elites (“the establishment”),and findingthat their voices are not heardby the establishment, theyfollow the populist leader who attacks theestablishment in their name. Typically, populism emerges in a time of economic crisis and canleadtopolitical realignmenteven when the establishment’s fear of populist electoral success turns out to be ungrounded or disproportionate. For example, Judis discusses how the populist Huey Long gained a large followingbecause of the Depression, and how President Roosevelt, out of fear of Long running for presidenton a third-party ticketin 1936, adopted in 1935“the Second New Deal,” addressing economic inequality (28-32). The populist challenge, however,never materialized since Long was assassinatedin September1935.  Longrepresents what Judis describes as “leftwing populism,”in which the bottom and middle contest the top, while “rightwing populistschampion the people against an elite that they accuse of coddling a third group, which can consist, for instance, of immigrants, Islamists, or African American militants” (15).George Wallace represents rightwing populism and his campaigns in the 1960s and 1970s contributed to the Republican Party embracing the “middle” Southern whites, leading them to moveaway from the Democratic Party(32-38). 

For Judis, the global financial collapse of 2008 led to Occupy and the Tea Party, and in their footsteps followed, respectively, the leftwing populist campaign of Bernie Sanders and the right wing populist campaign of Trump, both challenging neoliberalismand global capitalism. More specifically, Judis argues (66-71) that Trump opposed the consensus foreign policyof Republicans and Democrats by questioning the relevance of NATO, that he was critical of free trade, corporate outsourcing and offshoring, and tax inversion, and that he railed againstimmigration on both economic grounds (depression of wages and publiccosts) and social-cultural grounds (immigrants are a cause of crime). Accordingly, core Trump voters during the primaries, white working and middle class Republicanvoters, the “middle” left behind by global capitalism, soughtto change the Republican business agenda.Judis says little about what the alternative agendamight be, reflecting Trump’s own lack of details and vague insistence that hewill make much better deals for the American people. But from this angle “Making America Great Again” involves an agenda of a return to a less regulated and more nationalist capitalism. 

In short, Judis holds that the historical and political meaningof rightwing populism (as well as leftwing populism) should be situated within electoral politics rather than in seeking its negation, as is true of fascism; it is an“early warning” (157) that the political mainstream is ignoring real problems and that a political realignment might be in the making. He writes: “Calling [rightwing populist] parties and campaigns ‘fascist’ ... does bring out what is most toxic about these movements–their scapegoating of other nationalities and religions and in Trump’s case, too, the encouragement of thuggery –but it is not helpful for understanding their actual role in contemporary history” (157). Judis adds: “Calling them fascist exaggerates the danger they pose –they don’t threaten to ... disband parliament [as did German and Italian fascists].”  And for Judis this is not onlytrue of populism in America. He discusses in several chapters of his bookrecent populistmovements in Europe, focusing on leftwing populism in Spain and Greeceand rightwing populism in Northern/Western Europe,and his general conclusion of populism as corrective of representative democracyis based also ontheir historical record. Judis further argues that a distinguishing feature of fascism between the World Wars was that it was importantly directed against socialist and communist parties;it vieweddemocracy as a dangerous vehicle for promoting these parties;and,it justified and used violence to seek to destroy the revolutionary left(155-56). Also, fascism in both Italy and Germany was expansionist, while current rightwing populistsare opposed to imperialist or globalist schemas, seeking instead anexclusionary nationalismandwithdrawal from, or reduced participationin,transnational or global organizations(156-57).Finally, it may be noted (beyond Judis) that fascism is an elitist doctrine; its leader does not seek to express and realize the voice of forgotten itizens, as is true of the populist leader, but rather the fascist leader seeks to steer and educate the people toward a “new man” and a “holistic nation.”

Even though Judis arguesplausiblythat recent rightwing populism in the United States and Western/Northern Europe should be situated within democratic electoral politics, rather than viewed as incipient authoritarianism,it does not follow that rightwing populism does not threaten to erode liberal democracy.  We can find examples of rightwing populism in Latin American and Eastern Europe not discussed byJudis where populist leaders have opted for illiberal policies.4Certainly, the logic of rightwing populismhas illiberal components; it is bound todisregardthe rights of minorities whodo not belong to the “people,” and the populist leader, oncein power, may also seek to curtailthe judiciary or press whenthese are viewed as not in line with the political aims of the “people.”This threat of illiberalism is especially worrisome in a presidential system, as distinct from a parliamentary system, since it providesthe elected populist with considerable executive powerto pursue illiberal policies. Certainly, one should worry with Kellner about Trump’s anti-democratic personalityas well ashis admiration of “strongmen”(43).Trumpdisplayshostility towardmigrants, the judiciary,the “corrupt press,” and he does not share the liberal notion that political power should always be contestable. Instead, he responds to his critics with aggression and contempt.
