The war metaphor. Around the world, responses to the COVID-19 pandemic differ. Yet one element that many  states –from  their  politicians  and  policymakers  to  journalists,  healthcare specialists, and much of the public at large –seem to have in common is in framing and referring to the pandemic as a ‘war’. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the United States. On 17thMarch2020, US President Donald Trump tweeted:‘the world is at war with a hidden enemy. WE WILL WIN!’. In a press conference the following day on his decision to invokethe Defense Production Act in response to the crisis, Trump said:the  invisible  enemy,  it’s  always  the  toughest  enemy,  the  invisible  enemy,  but  we  are going  to  defeat  the  invisible  enemy,  I  think  we’re  gonna  do  it  even  faster  than  we thought and it will be a completevictory, a total victory... Trump further stated that the US is ‘at war against the Chinese virus’, which ‘spreads violently’, while also completely refuting suggestions that using the term ‘Chinese virus’ is racist and puts Asian-Americans at risk. Askedif he considers the United States to be  in  a  ‘war-time  footing’  in  terms  of  fighting  the  virus,  he  answered  (seemingly forgetting that he is alreadya wartime president, with the U.S. continuing its ‘war on terror’ in numerous countries): I do, I actually do, I’m looking at it that way... I view it as a...in a sense a wartime president, I mean that’s what we’re fighting... one day you have to close it down [the economy] in order to defeat this enemy. The Atlantic Council, in a piece which draws parallels between the events of 9/11 and the pandemic, urges Trump to invoke Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, an article which triggers collective self-defence among NATO’s members if one of them is subject to an armed attack. Trump could, writes Frederick Kempe(President and CEO of the Atlantic Council), ‘offer the transatlantic community an Article 5 declaration of war against this deadly pathogen’, as ‘there is far greater need now than after 9/11 for a symbolic gesture of unity.’ Kempe also refers to the virus as the ‘Chinese-originated COVID-19’, and his piece is, unsurprisingly, rather more concerned about maintaining US primacy over China in relations with Europe than it is about effective responses to  the  pandemic.    In  an  op-ed  in the New  York  Times, David  Katz  draws  a parallelbetween  ‘two  kinds  of  military  action:  inevitable  and  collateral  damage  of  diffuse hostilities, and the precision of a “surgical strike,” methodically targeted to the sources of  our  particular  peril’,  and  the  ‘battle’  against  the  coronavirus  pandemic,  calling  on the United States and the world to ‘consider the surgical approach, while there is still time.’This invocation of war in discussions and statements on the coronavirus pandemic is not limited to the US. In his address to the nation on the 16thMarch, French President Emmanuel  Macron told  the  country‘nous  sommes  en  guerre’ –‘we  are  at  war’ –against an invisible enemy. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson arguedthat his government  ‘must  act  like  any  wartime  government’, announced  the  setting-up  of  a ‘war room’, and said he and his cabinet ministers had a ‘battle plan’. Israel now finds itself in another ‘state of war’, according toMoshe Bar Siman-Tov, director general of the health ministry. In Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison called on Australians to ‘summon the spirit of the Anzacs... Of those who won the great peace of World War  II  and  defended  Australia.’  As  such,  while  this  piece  focuses  primarily  on  US policy, it is relevant beyond. The  use  of  the  war  metaphor  and  the  language  of  violence  and  conflict  is  neither accurate  nor  helpful  for  the  situation  we  are  facing.  For  one  thing,  those  drawing parallels between thispandemic and war fail to recognise the role of war in spreading disease, and in causing public health crises. The relationship between war and disease is not benign, and it is certainly not positive –war does not cure or cleanse. In reality, war  and  infectious  disease  are  ‘deadly  comrades’,  and  ‘infectious  diseases  ruthlessly exploit the conditions created by war, affecting both armies and civilians.’ Hagopian contends that war itself should be viewed as a public health problem, given that it is ‘arguably at the root of most of the world’s violent deaths... and significant numbers of chronic, infectious, and psychological health problems’ and ‘generates round after round of refugee movements, mental health crises, infectious epidemics, and chronic ailments.’1In  Afghanistan,  for  example,  the Costs  of  War  project  notesthat  ‘nearly every factor associated with premature death –poverty, malnutrition, poor sanitation, lack of access to health care, environmental degradation –is exacerbated by the current war.’This is, of course, not a new problem. War and the spread of disease have always been related –they were the combined agents of European genocides of Indigenous populations  throughout  the  Americas,  and  were  often  intertwined  with  colonialism. For example, writing on the relationship between cholera epidemics and colonialism in  India,  David  Arnold  noted  that:  ‘It  has  become  so  customary  to  apply  military metaphors  to  epidemic  diseases  to  speak  of  their  “attacks”  and  “invasions,”  of  the “devastation” they cause or the “resistance” they encounter, and of their “conquest” by medical science, that one could easily overlook the literal correspondence between cholera and military power in colonial India.’2Why,  then,  does  the  warmetaphor  hold  such  appeal?  Steinart  argues  that  the  war metaphor is ‘strong and socially valid because it is connected to very basic social values and  their  everyday  practices:  community,  patriarchy,  masculinity.’3I  would  add  that, for  Western  states  inparticular –and  for  some  states  more  than  others –the  war metaphor is ‘strong and socially valid’ because it is connected to everyday practices of imperialism. This is especially true in the United States. After all, the USis ‘a nation deeply wedded toand defined by war, though maddeningly reluctant to admit it’.4The experience  of  the  ‘war’  on  drugs  in  the  US  is  one  illustration  of  this.  Apart  from wreaking  havoc  on  communities  across  the  US  itself –especially  among  African-American communities –and driving up dramatically the US prison population,this heavily militarised approach to drug control has had serious and far-reaching effects across Latin America. The ‘war’ on terror is another example of the US obsession with militarised responses to all kinds of threats. In pursuing it, the US conducts ‘counter-terror’ operations in more than 80 countries, which has led to more than $2 trillion in war-related  debt,  and  at  least  801,000  deaths  directly  due  to  war  violence.5That  we should reach for the language of war and conflict in responding to this pandemic is troubling,  and  demonstrative  of  how  the  past  nineteen  years  in  particular,  since  the advent of the global ‘war on terror’, have shaped our thinking and our responses.