Despite being home to only 4.4% of the world’s population (U.S. and World PopulationClock), around 31% of the world’s mass shootings occur in the United States (Lankford, 2016).According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the term “mass murder” has beendefined as a multiple homicide incident in which four or more victims are murdered, within oneevent, and in one or more locations in close geographical proximity (Krouse, 2015, p. 2).Although there is no set definition of what a “mass shooting” is, since a mass shooting is a typeof mass murder, we are able to define a mass shooting as a mass murder through the use offirearms. From 1999 to 2013, the United States has seen on average of 31 mass murders per year,and of those incidents, 21 of them on average were committed entirely by firearms (Krouse,2015, p. 2). The five deadliest public mass shootings in the United States have occurred since2007 (Deadliest Mass Shootings, 2018) and the frequencies, along with number of fatalities isshown to be growing (Keller et. al, 2016). According to the Congressional Research Service, theannual number of public mass shootings in the 1970s had multiplied by four and a half times bythe early 2010s (Krouse, 2015, p. 2). There has also been an increasing trend in active shootingincidents from 2000 to 2015, according to the FBI (Blair, 2014). As of 2015 to 2017, a massshooting resulting in the death of four or more people occurred approximately every 12.5 days(Meindl & Ivy, 2017, p.368). With these alarming rates on the rise, the safety of the entire nationis in jeopardy.

Although there is current discussion surrounding gun control laws and mental healthapproaches, the one area that may lead to major progress in decreasing the number of massshootings is changing the media coverage and media portrayal surrounding both the offendersand the events. With current media coverage often highlighting the perpetrator and operation ofthe event, future offenders have a clear incentive of becoming famous for both their identitiesand actions through news outlets. Some shooters have even gone as far as reaching out to mediaorganizations themselves to gain the fame they seek. Those who may be looking to commit afuture shooting may also look at past offenders and events reported in the news to gainknowledge on how they can emulate a similar crime, causing contagion, copycat effects, andimitation. As a result of competing for attention, these fame-seeking offenders are extremelydangerous as they often try to kill more victims than previous shooters. The attention the mediaplaces on these aspects of mass shootings has caused the increase in occurrences and fatalities. Ifthe media were to place less attention on the perpetrators of these events and focusing more onthe victims, future perpetrators may be discouraged from continuing this increasing trend. Byremoving names, pictures, and details of the event from the media, the increase in frequency andfatalities may begin to drop.

Although mass shootings may seem rare, there should still be a large concern surroundingthis topic. Mass shootings not only cause multiple casualties and devastate families, but they alsoleave some survivors, bystanders, and community members with post-traumatic stress and createfear among the larger public. According to a Texas State University professor, J. Pete Blair, mass shooting fatalities are often higher in large, crowded and confined spaces, making it difficult forpeople to escape (Keller et. al, 2016). As a result, gunmen often create hostage situations and arenot stopped until hours after the event, causing deaths of victims who were in dire need ofmedical attention (Keller et. al, 2016). With the amount of deaths skyrocketing from massshootings among public spaces, such as the workplace, schools, restaurants, and houses ofworship, people are left feeling anxious and vulnerable due to the thoughts that “this couldhappen to me” (Krouse, 2015, p. 1). As human beings, coping with the loss of a loved one can beextremely difficult, but when the loss is unexpected and due to senseless violence, the sense ofsafety that was once had is taken away, leaving people feeling vulnerable, angry, and hopeless(Kamp, 2017).  According the Sheila Rauch, an associate professor at Emory University,“Violent trauma steals the sense of safety that most people take for granted in their lives forthemselves and those they care about” (Kamp, 2017). Both physical and mental trauma that iscaused by shootings can be extremely detrimental to a person, as it can lead to depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, fear, insomnia, anger, rehabilitation, and medicalinterventions that can last a person’s entire lifetime (Lowe & Galea, 2017) . With shootingshaving such detrimental effects on everyone in the nation, it is critical to understand how thesehorrific events can be reduced.

This journal article will give a background on the current discussion surroundingalternative approaches to reduce mass shootings, including gun control and mental healthapproaches. The importance of media coverage and how it plays a vital role in molding thepublic’s opinion on certain events will also be discussed. Focusing on the relationship between the media and mass shootings will allow us to understand how focusing on perpetrator of theseevents in news stories may be causing the increase in occurrences and fatalities. The examinationof how the media plays a role in transferring news to the public, due to its ability to shape thepublic’s perception will give us a further understanding of how it can inspire undesired effects offuture shootings. These undesired effects will be discussed through how the current state ofmedia coverage surrounding shootings may be seen as a fame incentive or inspire copycatgunmen. Researching current news articles surrounding recent mass shootings will illustratewhether or not change among the media coverage has taken place. By looking at current mediacoverage, consequences of the media coverage, and whether implementation of change hasoccurred, we will be able to gain a further understanding of the possibility and plausibility ofchanging in media coverage surrounding these incidents.

By taking a psychological and behavioral approach I will be able to gain a furtherunderstanding of why media reporting of perpetrators, may influence the number of shootingsand fatalities. Through the examining of current news articles surrounding recent shootings I willalso be able to understand why the increasing trend of mass shootings have continued toincrease. Looking at other media reports will also give me a chance to understand how difficult itwould be to change the media coverage of perpetrators.

Although a ban on guns may often be the first topic of discussion when discussing how toreduce these fatal events, the actual removal of these weapons used by perpetrators may benearly impossible. This is due to the fact that Americans appear to be dramatically split about gun control, as many citizens own a gun or multiple guns themselves. This split opinion on guncontrol within the citizens can be seen through the Washington Post-ABC news poll conductedon October 15-18, 2015 with a sample size of 1,001 U.S. adults. 82% of respondents answeredthat gun violence is a very serious problem in the country, with 46% responding that enactingnew laws to try and reduce gun violence should be a higher priority, and 47% responding thatprotecting the right to own guns is a higher priority (Washington Post-ABC news poll, 2015).Respondents were also asked how strongly they felt about their opinion, and 78% of themselected that they felt strongly (Washington Post-ABC news poll, 2015).

Another problem with gun control that may arise is the amount of firearms that arepresent within the nation. U.S. citizens currently own 40% of all the guns in the world, which is more than the next 25 top ranked gun ownership countries combined (Schaeffer, 2018). With atotal of 393 million guns for a population of around 326 million, it is estimated that there is gunownership of 121 firearms per 100 civilians (Schaeffer, 2018). Being one of the only twocountries in the world that have “the right to bear arms” written into their constitution, theremoval of the ability to purchase firearms would be in violation of the constitution (Lemieux,2014, p.76). As a result, removing this absurd amount of guns from the population is bothphysically unlikely and politically unfeasible.

Mass shooters have also been shown to have some common psychosocial characteristicsincluding problems with self-esteem, a persecutory/paranoid outlook, narcissism, depression,suicidality, and a perception of being socially rejected (Knoll, 2012). In the same WashingtonPost-ABC News poll mentioned previously, respondents were asked if they believed mass shootings in the country are more a reflection of problems identifying and treating people withmental health problems or inadequate gun control laws, while 63% selected the former and 23%selected the later (2015). As a result, the discussion of taking a mental health approach to targetperpetrators with these psychosocial problems in reducing mass shootings has also been a topicfor discussion.