The election of Donald Trump as President of the United States in 2016 was a shock to many progressives and liberals, as he had promoted violence and appealed to racism, nativism, xenophobia, Islamophobia, ableism, and misogyny during his campaign. According to Douglas Kellner, Trump is a "bullshit artist" who displays extreme narcissism and is an "authoritarian demagogue". Kellner and John B. Judis have written books that explain the rise of Trump and whether he is a right-wing populist or closer to a fascist. Arlie Russell Hochschild's book was completed during the Republican primaries and also helps to explain the rise of Trump.

Kellner argues that a significant factor in Trump's rise was his campaign becoming a "media spectacle," which he defines as media constructs that disrupt habitual flows of information and become popular stories that capture the attention of the media and the public. 


A significant part of Kellner’s short book offers a description of the Trump media spectacle from June 2016 to early October 2016. Trump's campaign blended celebrity, entertainment, and controversial politics.

More broadly, Kellner claims that there are important parallels between the rise of fascism in the 1930s and the rise of Trump, writing that attending one of Trump’s rallies reminded him of Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will (21) and that Trump’s arrival at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland followed the scenario of Hitler arriving in Nuremberg as captured in Riefenstahl’s movie (45).

Kellner argues that Trump's dominance and manipulation of the media was almost constant, aided by his incessant Tweeting. Kellner also suggests that Trump fits Erich Fromm's analysis of the authoritarian character, as exemplified by Hitler and Himmler, as "sadistic, excessively narcissistic, malignantly aggressive, vengeably destructive, and necrophiliac".

Kellner claims that there are parallels between the rise of fascism in the 1930s and the rise of Trump, citing the similarities between the anger and rage displayed by Trump supporters and Nazi supporters. However, Kellner also notes some differences between Trumpism and Nazism, such as the lack of a party apparatus behind the rise of Trump. Kellner maintains that Trump resembles the buffoonish Mussolini rather than the repressed and serious Hitler.