Another road, called the Nakasendo, the "Road of the Central Mountains," in contradistinction
to the Tokaido, the "Road of the Eastern Sea," also connects the old capital with the new;
but, besides being somewhat longer, the Nakasendo is a hillier road, and less interesting than
the Tokaido. After leaving the city the Tokaido leads over a low pass through the hills to
Otsu, on the lovely sheet of water known as Biwa Lake.

This lake is of about the same dimensions as Lake Geneva, and fairly rivals that Switzer gem
in transcendental beauty. The Japs, with all their keen appreciation of the beauties of nature,
go into raptures over Biwa Lake. Much talk is made of the "eight beauties of Biwa." These eight
beauties are: The Autumn Moon from Ishi-yama, the Evening Snow on Hira-yama, the Blaze of Evening
at Seta, the Evening Bell of Mii-dera, the Boats sailing back from Yabase, a Bright Sky with
a Breeze at Awadzu, Bain by Night at Karasaki, and the Wild Geese alighting at Katada. All
the places mentioned are points about the lake. All sorts of legends and romantic stories are
associated with the waters of Lake Biwa. Its origin is said to be due to an earthquake that
took place several centuries before the Christian era; the legend states that Fuji rose to
its majestic height from the plain of Suruga at the same moment the lake was formed. Temples
and shrines abound, and pilgrims galore come from far-off places to worship and see its beauties.

One object of special curiosity to tourists is a remarkable pine-tree, whose branches have
been trained in horizontal courses over upright posts, until it forms a broad shelter over
several hundred square yards. A smaller imitation of the large tree is also spreading to ambitious
proportions on the Tokaido side.

Snow has fallen and rests on the upper slopes of the mountains overlooking the lake, little
steamers and numerous sailing-craft are plying on the smooth waters, and wild geese are flying
about. With these beauties on the left and tea-gardens on the right, the Tokaido leads through
rows of stately pines, and past numerous villages along the lake shore.

The Nakasendo branches off to the left at the village of Kusa-tsu, celebrated for the manufacture
of riding-whips. Through Ishibe and beyond, to where it crosses the Yokota-gawa, the Tokaido
continues level and good. Near the crossing of this stream is a curious stone monument, displaying
the carved figures of three monkeys covering up their eyes, mouth, and ears, to indicate that
they will "neither see, hear, nor say any evil thing." All through here the country is devoted
chiefly to growing tea; very pretty the undulating ridges and rolling slopes of the broken
foot-hills look, set out in thick, bushy, well-defined rows and clumps of dark, shiny tea-plants.

Down a very steep declivity, by sharp zigzags, the Tokaido suddenly dips into the little valley
of the Yasose-gawa. At the foot of the hill is a curious shrine cave, containing several rude
idols, a trough with tame goldfish, and one of the crudest Buddhas I ever saw. The aim of the
ambitious sculptor of Buddhas is to produce a personification of "great tranquillity." The
figure in the Valley of Yasose-gawa is certainly something of a masterpiece in this direction;
nothing could well be more tranquil than an oblong bowlder with the faintest chiselling of
a mouth and nose, poised on the top of an upright slab of stone rudely chipped into a dim semblance
of the human form.

A mile or two farther and my day's ride of forty-six miles terminates at the village of Saka-no-shita.
A comfortable yadoya awaits me here, no better nor worse, however, than almost every Jap village
affords; but on the Tokaido the innkeepers are more accustomed to European guests than they
are south of Kobe. Every summer many European and American tourists journey between Yokohama
and Kobe by jinrikisha.

At this yadoya I first become acquainted with that peculiar institution of Japan, the blind
shampooer. Seated in my little room, my attention is attracted by a man who approaches on hands
and knees, and butts his shaven pate accidentally against the corner of the open panel that
forms my door. He halts at the entrance and indulges in the pantomime of pinching and kneading
his person; his mission is to find out whether I desire his services. For a small gratuity
the blind shampooer of Japan will rub, knead, and press one into a pleasant sensation from
head to foot. This office is relegated to sightless individuals or ugly old women; many Japs
indulge in their services after a warm bath, finding the treatment very pleasant and beneficial,
so they say.

One of the most amusing illustrations of Jap imitativeness is displayed in the number of American
clocks one sees adorning the walls of the yadoyas in nearly every village. The amusing feature
of the thing is that the owners of these time-pieces seem to have the vaguest ideas of what
they are for. One clock on the wall of my yadoya indicates eleven o'clock, another half-past
nine, and a third seven-fifteen as I pull out in the morning. Other clocks through the village
street vary in similar degree. Watching out for these widely varying clocks as I wheel through
the villages has come to be one of the diversions of the day's ride.

The road averages good, although somewhat hilly in places, from Saka-no through lovely valleys
and pine-clad mountains to Yokka-ichi. Yokka-ichi is a small seaport, whence most travellers
along the Tokaido take passage to Miya in the steam passenger launches plying between these
points. The kuruma road, however, continues good to the Ku-wana, ten miles farther, whence,
to Miya, one has to traverse narrower paths through a flat section of rice-fields, dikes, canals,
and sloughs.

A ri beyond Okabe and the pass of Utsunoya necessitates a mile or two of trundling. Here occurs
a tunnel some six hundred feet in length and twelve wide; a glimmer of sunshine or daylight
is cast into the tunnel by a system of simple reflectors at either entrance. These are merely
glass mirrors, set at an angle to reflect the rays of light into the tunnel.

Descending this little pass the Tokaido traverses a level rice-field plain, crosses the Abe-kawa,
and approaches the sea-coast at Shidzuoka, a city of thirty thousand inhabitants. The view
of Fuji, now but a short distance ahead, is extremely beautiful; the smooth road sweeps around
the gravelly beach, almost licked by the waves. The breakers approach and recede, keeping time
to the inimitable music of the surf; vessels are dotting the blue expanse; villages and tea-houses
are seen resting along the crescent-sweep of the shore for many a mile ahead, where Fuji slopes
so gracefully down from its majestic snow-crowned summit to the sea.

It is indeed a glorious ride around the crescent bay, through the sea-shore villages of Okitsu,
Yui, Kambara, and Iwabuchi to Yoshiwara, a little town on the footstool of the big, gracefully
sweeping cone. The stretch of shore hereabout is celebrated in Japanese poetry as Taga-no-ura,
from the peculiarly beautiful view of Fuji obtained from it.

This remarkable mountain is the highest in Japan, and is probably the finest specimen of a
conical mountain in existence. Native legends surround it with a halo of romance. Its origin
is reputed to be simultaneous with the formation of Biwa Lake, near Kioto, both mountain and
lake being formed in a single night--one rising from the plain twelve thousand eight hundred
feet, the other sinking till its bed reached the level of the sea.

The summit of Fuji is a place of pilgrimage for Japanese ascetics who are desirous of attaining
"perfect peace" by imitating Shitta-Tai-shi, the Japanese Buddha, who climbed to the summit
of a mountain in search of nirvana (calm). Orthodox Japs believe that the grains of sand brought
down on the sandals of the pilgrims ascend to the summit again of their own accord during the
night.

Tradition is furthermore responsible for the belief that snow disappears entirely from the
mountain for a few hours on the fifteenth day of the sixth moon, and begins to fall again during
the following night. Formerly an active volcano, Fuji even now emits steam from sundry crevices
near the summit, and will some day probably fill the good people at Yoshiwara and adjacent
villages with a lively sense of its power. Fuji is the special pride of the Japs, its loveliness
appealing strongly to the national sense of landscape beauty. Of it their poet sings:

"Great Fusiyama, tow'ring to the sky. A treasure art thou, giv'n to mortal man, A god-protector
watching o'er Japan: On thee forever let me feast mine eye."

Fuji is passed and left behind, and sixteen miles reeled off from Yoshiwara, when Mishima,
my destination for the night, is reached. A festival in honor of Oyama-tsumi-no-Kami, the god
of "mountains in general," is being held here; for, behold, to-day is November 15th, the "middle
day of the bird," one of the several festivals held in his honor every year. The big temple
grounds are swarming with people, and pedlers, stalls, jugglers, and all sorts of attractions
give the place the appearance of a country fair.

Leaving the bicycle outside, I wander in and stroll about among the crowds. Sacred ponds on
either side of the footway are swarming with sacred fish. An ancient dame is doing a roaring
trade, in a small way, in feathery bread-puffs, which the people buy and throw to the fish,
for the fun of seeing them swarm around and eat.

Interested groups are gathered around veritable fac-similes of the Yankee "street-men," selling
to credulous villagers little boxes of powder for "coating things with silver." Others are
selling song-books, attracting customers by the novel and interesting performances of a quartette
of pretty girls, who sing song after song in succession. Here also are little travelling peep-shows,
containing photographic scenes of famous temples and places in distant parts of the country.

Among the various shrines in this temple is one dedicated to an ancient wood-cutter, who used
to work and spend his wages on drink for his aged father, who was now too old to earn money
for the purpose himself. At his father's demise the son was rewarded for his filial devotion
by the discovery of a "cascade of pure sake."

A gayly decorated car and a closed tumbril, that looks very much like an old ammunition-wagon,
have been wheeled out of their enclosures for the occasion. Strings of little bells are suspended
on these; mothers hold their little ones up and allow them to strike these bells, toss a coin
into the contribution-box, and pass on. The vehicles probably contain relics of the gods.

A wooden horse, painted red, stands in solemn and lonely state behind the wooden bars of his
stall--but I have almost registered a vow against temples and their belongings, in Japan, so
inexplicable are most of the things to be seen. A person who has delved into the mysteries
of Japanese mythology would no doubt derive much satisfaction from a visit to the Oyama-tsumi-uo-Kami
temple, but the average reader would weary of it all after seeing others. What to ordinary
mortals signify such hideous mythological monsters as saru-tora-hebi (monkey-tiger-serpent),
or the "Twenty-four Paragons of Filial Piety" on the architrave. Yet, of such as these is the
ornamentation of all Japanese temples. Some few there are that are admirable as works of art,
but most of them are hideous daubs and representations more than passing rude.

