From the Arabian Nights

BARBARA FRIETCHIE .......... John Greenleaf Whittier

BEOWULF AND GBENDEL

CUPID AND PSYCHE .......... Adapted by Anna McCaleb

THE PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN .......... Robert Browning

FRITHIOF THE BOLD .......... Adapted by Grace E. Sellon

THE STORY OF SIEGFRIED .......... Adapted by Grace E. Sellon

NIGHT .......... Robert Southey

LOCHINVAR .......... Sir Walter Scott

ROBIN HOOD

ROLAND AT RONCESVALLES

For Classification of Selections, see General Index, at end of Volume X

ILLUSTRATIONS

ALADDIN LEADS THE PRINCESS INTO THE PALACE (Color Plate)
 Arthur Henderson   FRONTISPIECE
JOHN'S PUMPKIN ... Lucille Enders
THE GRYPHON ... After Sir John Tenniel
ALICE SAT STILL ... After Sir John Tenniel
THE LOBSTER QUADRILLE ... After Sir John Tenniel
AND TURNS OUT HIS TOES ... After Sir John Tenniel
THE SPIDER AND THE FLY ... Herbert N. Rudeen
IT WAS A GOLDEN CROWN ... After Sir John Tenniel
ALICE CONSIDERED ... After Sir John Tenniel
TWO QUEENS ASLEEP AT ONCE ... After Sir John Tenniel
THIS WAY, THAT WAY, SO WE MAKE A SHOE ... Herbert N. Rudeen
THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER ... After Sir John Tenniel
THE LITTLE OYSTERS WAITED ... After Sir John Tenniel
I DEEPLY SYMPATHIZE ... After Sir John Tenniel
THE DEATH OF GELERT ... Herbert N. Rudeen
ROBINSON CHUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND ... G.H. Mitchell
FRIDAY ... G.H. Mitchell
FRIDAY ROASTING THE KID ... G.H. Mitchell
I DISCOVERED A SHIP LYING AT ANCHOR ... G.H. Mitchell
THEY STARTED UP (Halftone) ... G.H. Mitchell
MAP OF GLOBE ... G.H. Mitchell
LIKE MOUNTAINS THE BILLOWS SWELL ... Donn P. Crane
THE SHIP WAS JAMMED BETWEEN HIGH ROCKS ... J. Allen St. John
THEY MADE A RAFT OF CASKS ... J. Allen St. John
THE AGOUTI ... J. Allen St. John
THE MONKEYS THREW DOWN COCONUTS ... J. Allen St. John
THE SHEEP FLOATED FAMOUSLY ... J. Allen St. John
FALCONHURST ... J. Allen St. John
CHEST OF TREASURE ... J. Allen St. John
OVERTURNING THE TURTLE ... J. Allen St. John
PENGUINS ... J. Allen St. John
CATCHING THE WILD ASS ... J. Allen St. John
FLAMINGOS ... J. Allen St. John
I ADVANCED WITH A LONG POLE ... J. Allen St. John
JACK AND THE OSTRICH ... J. Allen St. John
THE WALRUS ... J. Allen St. John
LATEST NEWS BY PIGEON POST ... J. Allen St. John
HIPPOPOTAMUS ... J. Allen St. John
ALBATROSS ... J. Allen St. John
PEARL BAY ... J. Allen St. John
WE BROUGHT UP WITHIN HAIL ... J. Allen St. John
THE SLAVE OF THE LAMP ... Arthur Henderson
ALADDIN DESCENDED THE STEPS ... Arthur Henderson
"GENIE, BUILD ME A PALACE" ... Arthur Henderson
"NEW LAMPS FOR OLD" ... Arthur Henderson
ALADDIN SALUTED THE PRINCESS JOYFULLY ... Arthur Henderson
THE VALLEY WAS STREWED WITH DIAMONDS ... Arthur Henderson
THE ROC FLEW AWAY WITH SINBAD (Halftone) ... Arthur Henderson
BARBARA FRIETCHIE ... Iris Weddell White
GRENDEL COULD NOT BREAK THAT GRIP OF STEEL ... Arthur Henderson
BEOWULF ON HIS NOBLE STEED ... Arthur Henderson
SHE LOOKED UPON THE GOD OF LOVE ... Iris Weddell White
PSYCHE AND CHARON ... Iris Weddell White
CUPID SPIED PSYCHE SLEEPING ... Iris Weddell White
PEOPLE CALL ME THE PIED PIPER ... Iris Weddell White
GREAT RATS, SMALL RATS ... Herbert N. Rudeen
A WONDERFUL PORTAL OPENED WIDE ... Iris Weddell White
THEY HAD BECOME BETROTHED ... Donn P. Crane
FRITHIOF BEHELD THE TWO WITCHES ... Donn P. Crane
SIEGFRIED AND THE DRAGON ... Louis Grell
A GREAT CASTLE TOWERED ABOVE THE CLIFFS ... Louis Grell
THE DEATH OF SIEGFRIED ... Louis Grell
LOCHINVAR ... Arthur Henderson
TUMBLED HIM INTO THE BROOK ... Jessie Arms
THE STRANGER OVERTHROWS ROBIN HOOD ... Jessie Arms
ROBIN HOOD AND THE WIDOW ... Jessie Arms
ROBIN HOOD AND THE SHERIFF ... Jessie Arms
ROBIN HOOD PLAYS HARPER ... Jessie Arms
IN THE GREENWOOD ... Jessie Arms
GANELON PICKS UP CHARLEMAGNE'S GLOVE ... Louis Grell
WHERESOEVER HE PLANTED HIS FOOT, THERE HE STAYED ... Jan in Grell
ROLAND FEEBLY WINDED HIS HORN ... Louis Grell

JOHN'S PUMPKIN

By MRS ARCHIBALD

Last spring I found a pumpkin seed,
  And thought that I would go
And plant it in a secret place,
  That no one else would know,
And watch all summer long to see
  It grow, and grow, and grow,
And maybe raise a pumpkin for
  A Jack-a-lantern show.

I stuck a stick beside the seed,
  And thought that I should shout
One morning when I stooped and saw
  The greenest little sprout!
I used to carry water there,
  When no one was about,
And every day I'd count to see
  How many leaves were out.

Till by and by there came a flower
  The color of the sun,
Which withered up, and then I saw
  The pumpkin was begun;
But oh! I knew I'd have to wait
  So long to have my fun,
Before that small green ball could be
  A great big yellow one.

At last, one day, when it had grown
  To be the proper size,
Said Aunt Matilda: "John, see here,
  I'll give you a surprise!"
She took me to a pantry shelf,
  And there before my eyes,
Was set a dreadful row of half
  A dozen pumpkin pies.

Said Aunt Matilda; "John, I found
  A pumpkin, high and dry,
Upon a pile of rubbish, down
  Behind that worn-out sty!"
O, dear, I didn't cry, because
  I'm quite too big to cry,
But, honestly, I couldn't eat
  A mouthful of the pie.

THE MOCK TURTLE'S STORY

By LEWIS CARROLL

NOTE.--The Mock Turtle's Story is from Alice in Wonderland, one of the most delightful books
that ever was written for children. It tells the story of a little girl's dream of Wonderland--a
curious country where one's size changes constantly, and where one meets and talks with the
quaintest, most interesting creatures. Through the Looking-Glass, a companion book to Alice
in Wonderland, is almost equally charming, with its descriptions of the land where everything
happens backward. Queen Alice, and The Walrus and the Carpenter, are from Through the Looking-Glass.

The real name of the man who wrote these books was Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, but every one
knows him better as Lewis Carroll. He was a staid and learned mathematician, who wrote valuable
books on most difficult mathematical subjects; for instance, he wrote a Syllabus of Plane Algebraical
Geometry, and it is not a joke, though the name may sound like one to a person who has read
Alice in Wonderland. However, there was one subject in which this grave lecturer on mathematics
was more interested than he was in his own lectures, and that was children--especially little
girls. He liked to have them with him always, and they, seeing in him a friend and playmate,
coaxed him constantly for stories and stories, and yet more stories.

One day, in July, 1862, he took three of his little friends, Alice and Edith and Lorina Liddell,
for a trip up the river, and on that afternoon he began telling them about Alice and her Wonderland,
continuing the story on other occasions, He had no intention then of making a book, but the
story pleased little Alice and her sisters so well that they talked about it at home and among
their grown-up friends, who finally persuaded the author to have it printed. It has gone on
growing more and more popular, and will keep on doing so as long as children love fun and wonderful
happenings.

The pictures which Sir John Tenniel made for Lewis Carroll's books are almost as famous as
the books themselves, and every child who has studied them knows exactly how dear little Alice
looked, and feels certain that he would recognize a Gryphon or a Mock Turtle anywhere. The
pictures given here are after Tenniel's drawings.

They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely
on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his
heart would break. She pitied him deeply.

"What is his sorrow?" she asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, "It's all his fancy,
that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on!"

So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said
nothing.

"This here young lady," said the Gryphon, "she wants for to know your history, she do."

"I'll tell it her," said the Mock Turtle in a deep-hollow tone: "sit down both of you, and
don't speak a word till I've finished."

So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to herself, "I don't see
how he can EVER finish, if he doesn't begin." But she waited patiently.

"Once," said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, "I was a real Turtle."

These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation
of "Hjckrrh!" from the Gryphon, and the constant heavy sighing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was
very nearly getting up and saying "Thank you, sir, for your interesting story," but she could
not help thinking there MUST be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

"When we were little," the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly, though still sobbing a
little now and then, "we went to school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle--we used to
call him Tortoise--"

"Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?" Alice asked.

"We called him Tortoise because he taught us," said the Mock Turtle angrily; "really you are
very dull."

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question," added the Gryphon;
and then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.
At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, "Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about
it!" and he went on in these words:

"Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it--"

"I never said I didn't!" interrupted Alice.

"You did," said the Mock Turtle.

"Hold your tongue!" added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again. The Mock Turtle went on:

"We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school every day-"

"I'VE been to a day-school too," said Alice; "you needn't be so proud as all that."

"With extras?" asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

"Yes," said Alice, "we learned French and music."

"And washing?" said the Mock Turtle.

"Certainly not!" said Alice indignantly.

"Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school," said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief.
"Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill, 'French, music, AND WASHING--extra.'"

"You couldn't have wanted it much," said Alice, "living at the bottom of the sea."

"I couldn't afford to learn it," said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. "I only took the regular
course."

"What was that?" inquired Alice.

"Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with," the Mock Turtle replied; "and then the different
branches of Arithmetic--Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision."

"I never heard of 'Uglification'," Alice ventured to say. "What is it?"

The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. "Never heard of uglifying!" it exclaimed.
"You know what to beautify is, I suppose?"

"Yes," said Alice, doubtfully; "it means--to--make--anything-- prettier.

"Well then," the Gryphon went on, "if you don't know what to uglify is, you ARE a simpleton."

Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she turned to the Mock
Turtle, and said, "What else had you to learn?"

"Well, there was Mystery," the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers--"Mystery,
ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old conger eel,
that used to come once a week: HE taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils."

"What was THAT like?" said Alice.

"Well, I can't show it you, myself," the Mock Turtle said: "I'm too stiff. And the Gryphon
never learned it."

"Hadn't time," said the Gryphon. "I went to the Classical master, though. He was an old crab,
HE was."

"I never went to him," the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: "he taught Laughing and Grief, they
used to say." "So he did, so he did." said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn, and both creatures
hid their faces in their paws.

"And how many hours a day did you do lessons?" said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject.

"Ten hours the first day," said the Mock Turtle; "nine the next, and so on."

"What a curious plan!" exclaimed Alice.

"That's the reason they're called lessons," the Gryphon remarked: "because they lessen from
day to day."

This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next
remark. "Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?"

"Of course it was," said the Mock Turtle.

"And how did you manage on the twelfth?" Alice went on eagerly.

"That's enough about lessons," the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: "tell her something
about the games now."

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes. He looked
at Alice and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. "Same as if he
had a bone in his throat," said the Gryphon, and it set to work shaking him and punching him
in the back.

At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went
on again:

"You may not have lived much under the sea"--("I haven't," said Alice)--"and perhaps you were
never even introduced to a lobster"-- (Alice began to say "I once tasted"--but checked herself
hastily, and said, "No, never")--"so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster-Quadrille
is!"

"No, indeed," said Alice. "What sort of a dance is it?"

"Why," said the Gryphon, "you first form into a line along the seashore--"

"Two lines!" cried the Mock Turtle. "Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on: then, when you've cleared
all the jellyfish out of the way--"

"THAT generally takes some time," interrupted the Gryphon.

"You advance twice--"

"Each with a lobster as a partner!" cried the Gryphon.

"Of course," the Mock Turtle said: "advance twice, set to partners--"

"Change lobsters, and retire in same order," continued the Gryphon.

"Then you know," the Mock Turtle went on, "you throw the--"

"The lobsters!" shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air. "As far out to the sea as you
can--"

"Swim after them!" screamed the Gryphon.

"Turn a somersault in the sea!" cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.

"Change lobsters again!" yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.

"Back to land again, and--that's all the first figure," said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping
his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time,
sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

"It must be a very pretty dance," said Alice timidly.

"Would you like to see a little of it?" said the Mock Turtle.

"Very much indeed," said Alice.

"Come, let's try the first figure!" said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. "We can do it without
lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?"

"Oh, YOU sing," said the Gryphon. "I've forgotten the words."

So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
fore paws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very
slowly and sadly:
"'Will you walk a little faster!' said a whiting to a snail,
 'There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.
 See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
 They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?

"'You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
 When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!'
 But the snail replied 'Too far, too far!' and gave a look askance--
 Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

"'What matters it how far we go?' his scaly friend replied,
 'There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.

"Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch," said Alice, feeling very glad that it
was over at last; "and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!"

"Oh, as to the whiting," said the Mock Turtle, "they--you've seen them, of course?"

"Yes," said Alice, "I've often seen them at dinn--" she checked herself hastily.

"I don't know where Dinn may be," said the Mock Turtle, "but if you've seen them so often,
of course you know what they're like."

"I believe so," Alice replied thoughtfully. "They have their tails in their mouths; and they're
all over crumbs."

"You're wrong about the crumbs," said the Mock Turtle; "crumbs would all wash off in the sea.
But they HAVE their tails in their mouths; and the reason is"--here the Mock Turtle yawned
and shut his eyes. "Tell her about the reason and all that," he said to the Gryphon.

"The reason is," said the Gryphon, "that they WOULD go with the lobsters to the dance. So they
got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their
mouths. So they couldn't get them out again. That's all."

"Thank you," said Alice, "it's very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before."

"I can tell you more than that, if you like," said the Gryphon. "Do you know why it's called
a whiting?"

"I never thought about it," said Alice. "Why?"

"IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES," the Gryphon replied very solemnly.

Alice was thoroughly puzzled. "Does the boots and shoes!" she repeated in a wondering tone.

"Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?" said the Gryphon. "I mean, what makes them so shiny?"

Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her answer. "They're done
with blacking, I believe."

"Boots and shoes under the sea," the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, "are done with whiting.
Now you know."

"And what are they made of?" Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

"Soles and eels, of course," the Gryphon replied rather impatiently; "any shrimp could have
told you that."

"If I'd been the whiting," said Alice, whose thoughts were still running on the song, "I'd
have said, to the porpoise, 'Keep back, please; we don't want YOU with us!'"

"They were obliged to have him with them," the Mock Turtle said; "no wise fish would go anywhere
without a porpoise."

"Wouldn't it really?" said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

"Of course not," said the Mock Turtle; "why, if a fish came to ME, and told me he was going
a journey, I should say 'With what porpoise?'"

"Don't you mean 'purpose'?" said Alice.

"I mean what I say," the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone.

And the Gryphon added, "Come, let's hear some of YOUR adventures."

"I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning," said Alice a little timidly;
"but it's no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then."

"Explain all that," said the Mock Turtle.

"No, no! the adventures first," said the Gryphon in an impatient tone; "explanations take such
a dreadful time."

So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit;
she was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one
on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she gained courage as she
went on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating, "You
are old, Father William," to the caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then
the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said, "That's very curious."

"It's all about as curious as it can be," said the Gryphon.

"It all came different!" the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. "I should like to hear her
try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin." He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought
it had some kind of authority over Alice.

"Stand up and repeat, ''Tis the voice of the sluggard'," said the Gryphon.

"How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!" thought Alice. "I might just
as well be at school at once."

However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster-Quadrille,
that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:

    "'Tis the voice of the lobster; I heard him declare,
     'You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.'
     As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
     Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes."

"That's different from what I used to say when I was a child," said the Gryphon.

"Well, I never heard it before," said the Mock Turtle; "but it sounds uncommon nonsense."

Alice said nothing; she had sat down again with her face in her hands, wondering if anything
would ever happen in a natural way again.

"I should like to have it explained," said the Mock Turtle.

"She can't explain it," said the Gryphon hastily. "Go on with the next verse."

"But about his toes?" the Mock Turtle persisted. "How COULD he turn them out with his nose,
you know?"

"It's the first position in dancing," Alice said; but she was dreadfully puzzled by the whole
thing, and longed to change the subject.

"Go on with the next verse," the Gryphon repeated impatiently; "it begins 'I passed by his
garden.'"

Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on
in a trembling voice:

    "I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
     How the owl and the oyster were sharing the pie."

"What IS the use of repeating all that stuff," the Mock Turtle interrupted, "if you don't explain
it as you go on? It's by far the most confusing thing I ever heard."

"Yes, I think you'd better leave off," said the Gryphon, and Alice was only too glad to do so.

"Shall we try another figure of the Lobster-Quadrille?" the Gryphon went on. "Or would you
like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?"

"Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind," Alice replied, so eagerly that the
Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, "Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her 'Turtle Soup,'
will you, old fellow?"

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked
with sobs, to sing this:
    "Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    "Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?

THE SPIDER AND THE FLY

By MARY HOWITT

"Will you walk into my parlor?"
  Said a spider to a fly:
'Tis the prettiest little parlor
  That ever you did spy.
The way into my parlor
  Is up a winding stair,
And I have many pretty things
  To show when you are there."
"Oh, no, no!" said the little fly,
  "To ask me is in vain;
For who goes up your winding stair
  Can ne'er come down again."

"I'm sure you must be weary
  With soaring up so high;
Will you rest upon my little bed?"
  Said the spider to the fly.
"There are pretty curtains drawn around,
  The sheets are fine and thin;
And if you like to rest awhile,
  I'll snugly tuck you in."
"Oh, no, no!" said the little fly,
  "For I've often heard it said,
They never, never wake again
  Who sleep upon your bed."

Said the cunning spider to the fly,
  "Dear friend, what shall I do
To prove the warm affection
  I've always felt for you?
I have within my pantry
  Good store of all that's nice;
I'm sure you're very welcome--
  Will you please to take a slice?"
"Oh, no, no!" said the little fly;
  "Kind sir, that cannot be;
I've heard what's in your pantry,
  And I do not wish to see."

"Sweet creature," said the spider,
  "You're witty and you're wise;
How handsome are your gauzy wings,
  How brilliant are your eyes.
I have a little looking-glass
  Upon my parlor shelf;
If you'll step in one moment, dear,
  You shall behold yourself."
"I thank you, gentle sir," she said,
  "For what you're pleased to say,
And bidding you good morning, now,
  I'll call another day."

The spider turned him round about,
  And went into his den,
For well he knew the silly fly
  Would soon be back again;
So he wove a subtle thread
  In a little corner sly,
And set his table ready
  To dine upon the fly.
He went out to his door again,
  And merrily did sing,
"Come hither, hither, pretty fly,
  With the pearl and silver wing;
Your robes are green and purple,
  There's a crest upon your head;
Your eyes are like the diamond bright,
  But mine are dull as lead."

Alas, alas! how very soon
  This silly little fly,
Hearing his wily, flattering words,
  Came slowly flitting by:
With buzzing wings she hung aloft,
  Then near and nearer drew--
Thought only of her brilliant eyes
  And green and purple hue;
Thought only of her crested head--
  Poor foolish thing! At last
Up jumped the cunning spider,
  And fiercely held her fast.

He dragged her up his winding stair,
  Into his dismal den,
Within his little parlor--but
  She ne'er came out again!
And now, dear little children
  Who may this story read,
To idle, silly, flattering words,
  I pray you, ne'er give heed:
Unto an evil counsellor
  Close heart and ear and eye,
And learn a lesson from this tale
  Of the spider and the fly.

A FAREWELL

By CHARLES KINGSLEY

My fairest child, I have no song to give you;
  No lark could pipe to skies so dull and gray;
Yet, ere we part, one lesson I can leave you
         For every day.

Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever;
  Do noble things, not dream them, all day long:
And so make life, death, and that vast forever
        One grand sweet song.

QUEEN ALICE

By LEWIS CARROLL

Alice threw herself down to rest on a lawn as soft as moss, with little flower beds dotted
about it here and there. "Oh, how glad I am to get here! And what IS this on my head?" she
exclaimed, as she put her hands up to something very heavy, that fitted tight all round her head.

"But how CAN it have got there without my knowing it?" she said to herself, as she lifted it
off, and set it on her lap to make out what it could possibly be. It was a golden crown.

"Well, this IS grand!" said Alice. "I never expected I should be a queen so soon--and I'll
tell you what it is, your majesty," she went on in a severe tone (she was always rather fond
of scolding herself), "it'll never do for you to be lolling about on the grass like that! Queens
have to be dignified, you know!"

So she got up and walked about--rather stiffly just at first, as she was afraid that the crown
might come off: but she comforted herself with the thought that there was nobody to see her;
"and if I really am a queen," she said, as she sat down again, "I shall be able to manage it
quite well in time."

Everything was happening so oddly that she didn't feel a bit surprised at finding the Red Queen
and the White Queen sitting close to her, one on each side: she would have liked very much
to ask them how they came there, but she feared it would not be quite civil. However, there
would be no harm, she thought, in asking if the game was over.

"Please, would you tell me--" she began, looking timidly at the Red Queen.

"Speak when you're spoken to!" the Queen sharply interrupted her.

"But if everybody obeyed that rule," said Alice, who was always ready for a little argument,
"and if you only spoke when you were spoken to, and the other person always waited for YOU
to begin, you see nobody would ever say anything, so--"

"Ridiculous!" cried the Queen. "Why, don't you see, child--" here she broke off with a frown,
and, after thinking for a minute, suddenly changed the subject of the conversation. "What do
you mean by 'If you really are a queen?' What right have you to call yourself so? You can't
be a queen, you know, till you've passed the proper examination. And the sooner we begin it,
the better."

"I only said 'if'," poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone.

The two queens looked at each other, and the Red Queen remarked, with a little shudder, "She
SAYS she only said 'if'--"

"But she said a great deal more than that," the White Queen moaned, wringing her hands. "Oh,
ever so much more than that."

"So you did, you know," the Red Queen said to Alice. "Always speak the truth--think before
you speak--and write it down afterward."

"I'm sure I didn't mean--" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen interrupted her impatiently.

"That's just what I complain of. You SHOULD have meant! What do you suppose is the use of a
child without any meaning? Even a joke should have some meaning--and a child's more important
than a joke, I hope. You couldn't deny that, even if you tried with both hands."

"I don't deny things with my HANDS," Alice objected. "Nobody said you did," said the Red Queen.
"I said you couldn't if you tried."

"She's in that state of mind," said the White Queen, "that she wants to deny SOMETHING--only
she doesn't know what to deny."

"A nasty, vicious temper," the Red Queen remarked; and there was an uncomfortable silence for
a minute or two.

The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen, "I invite you to Alice's dinner
party this afternoon."

The White Queen smiled feebly, and said, "And I invite YOU."

"I didn't know I was to have a party at all," said Alice; "but if there is to be one, I think
I ought to invite the guests."

"We gave you the opportunity of doing it," the Red Queen remarked: "but I dare say you've not
had many lessons in manners yet?"

"Manners are not taught in lessons," said Alice. "Lessons teach you to do sums, and things
of that sort."

"Can you do addition?" the White Queen asked. "What's one and one and one and one and one and
one and one and one and one and one?"

"I don't know," said Alice. "I lost count."

"She can't do Addition," the Red Queen interrupted. "Can you do Subtraction? Take nine from eight."

"Nine from eight I can't, you know," Alice replied very readily: "but--"

"She can't do Subtraction," said the White Queen. "Can you do Division? Divide a loaf by a
knife--what's the answer to that?"

"I suppose--" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen answered for her. "Bread-and-butter, of
course. Try another Subtraction sum. Take a bone from a dog: what remains?"

Alice considered. "The bone wouldn't remain, of course, if I took it-- and the dog wouldn't
remain; it would come to bite me--and I'm sure I shouldn't remain!"

"Then you think nothing would remain?" said the Red Queen.

"I think that's the answer."

"Wrong as usual," said the Red Queen; "the dog's temper would remain."

"But I don't see how--"

"Why, look here!" the Red Queen cried. "The dog would lose its temper, wouldn't it?"

"Perhaps it would," Alice replied cautiously.

"Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!" the Queen exclaimed triumphantly.

Alice said, as gravely as she could, "They might go different ways." But she couldn't help
thinking to herself, "What nonsense we ARE talking!"

"She can't do sums a BIT," the queens said together, with great emphasis.

"Can YOU do sums?" Alice said, turning suddenly on the White Queen, for she didn't like being
found fault with so much.

The Queen gasped and shut her eyes. "I can do Addition," she said, "if you give me time--but
I can't do Subtraction under ANY circumstances!"

"Of course you know your A B C?" said the Red Queen.

"To be sure I do," said Alice.

"So do I," the White Queen whispered: "we'll often say it over together, dear. And I'll tell
you a secret--I can read words of one letter! Isn't THAT grand? However, don't be discouraged.
You'll come to it in time."

Here the Red Queen began again. "Can you answer useful questions?" she said. "How is bread made?"

"I know THAT," Alice cried eagerly. "You take some flour--"

"Where do you pick the flower?" the White Queen asked. "In a garden, or in the hedges?"

"Well, it isn't PICKED at all," Alice explained: "it's GROUND--"

"How many acres of ground?" said the White Queen. "You mustn't leave out so many things."

"Fan her head!" the Red Queen anxiously interrupted. "She'll be feverish after so much thinking."
So they set to work and fanned her with bunches of leaves, till she had to beg them to leave
off, it blew her hair about so.

"She's all right again now," said the Red Queen. "Do you know languages? What's the French
for fiddle-de-dee?"

"Fiddle-de-dee's not English," Alice replied gravely.

"Who ever said it was?" said the Red Queen.

Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time. "If you'll tell me what language
'fiddle-de-dee' is, I'll tell you the French for it!" she exclaimed triumphantly.

But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly, and said, "Queens never make bargains."

"I wish queens never asked questions," Alice thought to herself.

"Don't let us quarrel," the White Queen said, in an anxious tone. "What is the cause of lightning?"

"The cause of lightning," Alice said, very decidedly, for she felt quite certain about this,
"is the thunder--no, no!" she hastily corrected herself. "I meant the other way."

"It's too late to correct it," said the Red Queen: "when you've once said a thing, that fixes
it, and you must take the consequences."

"Which reminds me," the White Queen said, looking down and nervously clasping and unclasping
her hands, "we had SUCH a thunderstorm last Tuesday--I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays,
you know."

Alice was puzzled. "In OUR country," she remarked, "there's only one day at a time."

The Red Queen said, "That's a poor thin way of doing things. Now HERE, we mostly have days
and nights two or three at a time, and sometimes in the winter we take as many as five nights
together--for warmth, you know."

"Are five nights warmer than one night, then?" Alice ventured to ask.

"Five times as warm, of course."

"But they should be five times as COLD, by the same rule--"

"Just so!" cried the Red Queen. "Five times as warm, AND five times as cold--just as I'm five
times as rich as you are, AND five times as clever!"

Alice sighed and gave it up. "It's exactly like a riddle with no answer!" she thought.

"Humpty Dumpty saw it too," the White Queen went on in a low voice, more as if she were talking
to herself. "He came to the door with a corkscrew in his hand--"

"What did he want?" said the Red Queen.

"He said he WOULD come in," the White Queen went on, "because he was looking for a hippopotamus.
Now, as it happened, there wasn't such a thing in the house, that morning."

"Is there generally?" Alice asked in an astonished tone.

"Well, only on Thursdays," said the Queen.

"I know what he came for," said Alice: "he wanted to punish the fish, because--"

Here the White Queen began again. "It was SUCH a thunderstorm, you can't think!" ("She NEVER
could, you know," said the Red Queen.) "And part of the roof came off, and ever so much thunder
got in--and it went rolling round the room in great lumps--and knocking over the tables and
things--till I was so frightened, I couldn't remember my own name!"

Alice thought to herself, "I never should TRY to remember my name in the middle of an accident!
Where would be the use of it?" but she did not say this aloud, for fear of hurting the poor
Queen's feelings.

"Your Majesty must excuse her," the Red Queen said to Alice, taking one of the White Queen's
hands in her own, and gently stroking it: "she means well, but she can't help saying foolish
things, as a general rule."

The White Queen looked timidly at Alice, who felt she OUGHT to say something kind, but really
couldn't think of anything at the moment.

"She never was really well brought up," the Red Queen went on: "but it's amazing how good-tempered
she is! Pat her on the head, and see how pleased she'll be!" But this was more than Alice had
courage to do.

"A little kindness--and putting her hair in papers--would do wonders with her--"

The White Queen gave a deep sigh, and laid her head on Alice's shoulder. "I AM so sleepy!"
she moaned.

"She's tired, poor thing!" said the Red Queen. "Smooth her hair--lend her your nightcap--and
sing her a soothing lullaby."

"I haven't got a nightcap with me," said Alice, as she tried to obey the first direction: "and
I don't know any soothing lullabies."

"I must do it myself, then," said the Red Queen, and she began:

    "Hush-a-by, lady, in Alice's lap!
     Till the feast's ready, we've time for a nap:
     When the feast's over, we'll go to the ball--
     Red Queen, and White Queen, and Alice, and all!"

"And now you know the words," she added, as she put her head down on Alice's other shoulder,
"just sing it through to ME; I'm getting sleepy, too." In another moment both queens were fast
asleep, and snoring loud.

"What AM I to do?" exclaimed Alice, looking about in great perplexity, as first one round head,
and then the other, rolled down from her shoulder, and lay like a heavy lump in her lap. "I
don't think it EVER happened before, that any one had to take care of two queens asleep at
once! No, not in all the history of England--it couldn't, you know, because there never was
more than one queen at a time. Do wake up, you heavy things!" she went on in an impatient tone;
but there was no answer but a gentle snoring.

THE LEPRECAUN

By WILLIAM ALLINGHAM

NOTE.--The Leprecaun, or Shoemaker, is one of the solitary fairies of Ireland. He is a little
fellow who wears a red coat with seven buttons in each row, and a cocked or pointed hat, on
the point of which he often spins round like a top. You may often see him under the hedge mending
shoes; where, if you are sharp enough, you may catch him and make him give up the big crocks
of gold, of which the little miser has saved many and many. But you must be careful, for if
after you have seen him once you take your eyes off him for a single instant, he vanishes into
the air like a wreath of smoke.

    Little cowboy, what have you heard,
    Up on the lonely rath's green mound?
    Only the plaintive yellow-bird
    Singing in sultry fields around?
    Chary, chary, chary, chee-e!
    Only the grasshopper and the bee?
    "Tip-tap, rip-rap,
    Tick-a-tack-too!
    Scarlet leather sewn together,
    This will make a shoe.
    Left, right, pull it tight,
    Summer days are warm;
    Underground in winter,
    Laughing at the storm!"

    Lay your ear close to the hill:
    Do you not catch the tiny clamor,
    Busy click of an elfin hammer,
    Voice of the Leprecaun singing shrill
    As he merrily plies his trade?
    He's a span
    And a quarter in height;
    Get him in sight, hold him fast,
    And you're a made
    Man!

    You watch your cattle the summer day,
    Sup on potatoes, sleep in the hay;
    How should you like to roll in your carriage
    And look for a duchess's daughter in marriage?
    Seize the shoemaker, so you may!
    "Big boots a-hunting,
    Sandals in the hall,
    White for a wedding feast,
    And pink for a ball:
    This way, that way,
    So we make a shoe,
    Getting rich every stitch,
    Tick-tack-too!"

    Nine and ninety treasure crocks
    This keen miser-fairy hath,
    Hid in mountain, wood and rocks,
    Ruin and round-tower, cave or rath,
    And where the cormorants build;
    From the times of old
    Guarded by him;
    Each of them filled
    Full to the brim
    With gold!

    I caught him at work one day myself,
    In the castle ditch where the foxglove grows,
    A wrinkled, wizened and bearded elf,
    Spectacles stuck on the top of his nose,
    Silver buckles to his hose,
    Leather apron, shoe in his lap.
    "Rip-rap, tip-tap,
    Tick-tack-too!

    A grig stepped upon my cap,
    Away the moth flew.
    Buskins for a fairy prince,
    Brogues for his son,
    Pay me well, pay me well,
    When the job's done."

    The rogue was mine beyond a doubt;
    I stared at him, he stared at me!
    "Servant, Sir!" "Humph," said he,
    And pulled a snuff-box out;
    He took a long pinch, looked better pleased,
    The queer little Leprecaun,
    Offered the box with a whimsical grace,
    Pouf! he flung the dust in my face,
    And, while I sneezed, was gone!

BETH GELERT

By WILLIAM E. SPENCER

The spearmen heard the bugle sound,
  And cheerily smiled the morn;
And many a brach, and many a hound,
  Obeyed Llewelyn's horn.

And still he blew a louder blast,
  And gave a lustier cheer,
"Come, Gelert, come, wert never last
  Llewelyn's horn to hear.

"O, where does faithful Gelert roam,
  The flower of all his race;
So true, so brave,--a lamb at home,
  A lion in the chase?"

In sooth, he was a peerless hound,
  The gift of royal John;
But now no Gelert could be found
  And all the chase rode on.

That day Llewelyn little loved
  The chase of hart and hare;
And scant and small the booty proved,
  For Gelert was not there.

Unpleased, Llewelyn homeward hied,
  When, near the portal seat,
His truant Gelert he espied,
  Bounding his lord to greet.

But when he gained his castle door,
  Aghast the chieftain stood;
The hound all o'er was smeared with gore;
  His lips, his fangs, ran blood.
Llewelyn gazed with fierce surprise;
  Unused such looks to meet,
His favorite checked his joyful guise,
  And crouched, and licked his feet.

Onward, in haste, Llewelyn passed,
  And on went Gelert, too;
And still, where'er his eyes he cast,
  Fresh blood-gouts shocked his view.

O'erturned his infant's bed he found,
  With blood-stained covert rent;
And all around the walls and ground
  With recent blood besprent.

He called his child,--no voice replied,--
  He searched with terror wild;
Blood, blood he found on every side,
  But nowhere found his child.

"Hell-hound! my child's by thee devoured,"
  The frantic father cried;
And to the hilt his vengeful sword
  He plunged in Gelert's side.

Aroused by Gelert's dying yell,
  Some slumberer wakened nigh;
What words the parent's joy could tell
  To hear his infant's cry!

Concealed beneath a tumbled heap
  His hurried search had missed,
All glowing from his rosy sleep,
  The cherub boy he kissed.

Nor scathe had he, nor harm, nor dread,
  But, the same couch beneath,
Lay a gaunt wolf, all torn and dead,
  Tremendous still in death.

Ah, what was then Llewelyn's pain!
  For now the truth was clear;
His gallant hound the wolf had slain
  To save Llewelyn's heir.

ROBINSON CRUSOE

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

The author of Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe, lived in England from 1661 to 1731. He was a brave,
liberty-loving man who was always in opposition to the tyranny of the government, and was many
times punished for his independent speech and lively interest in the wrongs of his fellows.

We do not know positively what inspired him to write the story, or where he got his facts.
It has been generally believed that his tale was founded on The Life and Adventures of Alexander
Selkirk, a book which was published about seven years before Robinson Crusoe appeared, in 1719.
Selkirk was a buccaneer on a ship cruising in the South Atlantic. He quarreled violently with
his captain, and at his own request was put ashore alone on the island of Juan Fernandez. Here
he lived for four years and four months, and was then rescued by a privateer. The adventures
of Selkirk have so little in common with those of Robinson Crusoe that it is doubtful whether
Defoe had the former in mind at all. Moreover, there had been published in England some twenty
years before Defoe wrote Robinson Crusoe the story of Peter Serrano, who was shipwrecked and
lived for several years on an island near the mouth of the Orinoco.

This is the scene of Robinson Crusoe, and it is probable that Defoe was influenced by Serrano's
story.

The title-page of the first edition is as follows:

"The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York, Mariner; Who lived
Eight and Twenty Years, all alone in an un- inhabited Island on the Coast of America, near
the Mouth of the Great River Oroonoque; Having been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all
the Men perished but himself. With an Account how he was at last as strangely delivered by
Pyrates. Written by Himself. London: Printed for W. Taylor at the Ship in Pater-Noster-Row.
MDCCXIX"

The story as Defoe tells it is vividly written in what seems to us now rather quaint phraseology,
but everything appears so simple and so real that it is hard to believe that the man who wrote
the story did not really have the experiences he relates. Defoe did not intend to write a book
for children, and Robinson Crusoe is really the first great English story, and the forerunner
of our modern novels. The book, however, became very popular, and the children seized upon
it at once and made it their own particular story. Countless editions of it have been printed,
and it has been translated into almost every modern language. Besides this, there have been
dozens of English versions of Robinson Crusoe, from simple little tales in words of one syllable,
to finer editions in which Defoe's language has been modernized and a really new story created.
However, there is nothing so charming and so real as Crusoe's own account of himself, and the
selections which follow are taken from the larger book just about as they were written by Defoe.

Robinson Crusoe was a good honest Englishman, who made the best of a hard situation and worked
his way into comparative comfort in spite of a thousand difficulties and dangers, of which
only those who read the book have any idea. He was so manly about it always, and so straightforward
in his account of what he did, that it is worth any one's while to read the entire book.

THE MAN FRIDAY

I am now to be supposed retired in my castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate
laid up and secured under water, and my condition restored to what it was before; I had more
wealth than I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no more use for it than
the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and- twentieth year of my first
setting foot in this island of solitariness; I was lying in my bed or hammock awake, very well
in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of mind more
than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long. It is impossible to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled
through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's time: I ran over
the whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming
to this island, and also of that part of my life since I came to this island.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in considering the nature
of those wretched creatures, the cannibals, [Footnote: Crusoe had been much disturbed by discovering
footprints and remains of fires, which showed him that his island had been visited. As he found
human bones near the embers, he knew that his visitors were cannibals.] and how it came to
pass in the world that the wise Governor of all things should give up any of his creatures
to such inhumanity--nay, to something so much below even brutality itself--as to devour its
own kind: but, as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it occurred to
me to inquire, what part of the world these wretches lived in? how far off the coast was from
whence they came? what they ventured over so far from home for? what kind of boats they had?
and why I might not order myself and my business so, that I might be able to go over thither,
as they were to come to me?

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with myself when I went thither;
what would become of me if I fell into the hands of these savages; or how I should escape them
if they attacked me; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the mainland. I looked upon my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly
be; that I was not able to throw myself into anything but death, that could be called worse;
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast
along, till I came to some inhabited country, where I might find some relief; and, after all,
perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that would take me in; and if the worst came
to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to all these miseries at once.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such violence that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary
fervor of my mind about it, Nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but
I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning
as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming to land,
and that they brought with them another savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat
him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his
life; and I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove before my
fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others
sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he kneeled
down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made him go
up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as I had gotten
this man, I said to myself, "Now I may certainly venture to the mainland, for this fellow will
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither
not to go for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into, and what to escape." I waked
with this thought; and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my
escape in my dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
that it was no more than a dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into
a very great dejection of spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my only way to go about to attempt an escape
was, to endeavor to get a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of
their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to resolve on; but as
I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to
see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as often as possible, and
indeed so often, that I was heartily tired of it.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business to teach him everything that was
proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand
me when I spoke; and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me understand
him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now my life began to be so easy that I
began to say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I
was never to be removed from the place where I lived.

********

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm, and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing at a fowl which was indeed a parrot, and to my gun, and to the
ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him understand that I
would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he
saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frighted again, notwithstanding all I had said to him;
and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me put anything into the gun; but
thought that there must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able
to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or far off; and the astonishment this created in
him was such as could not wear off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch
it for several days after; but would speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answered him,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterward learned of him, was to desire it not to kill
him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch
the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead,
had fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell; however, he found her, took
her up, and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I might
be ready for any other mark that might present.

I resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of a kid; this I did by hanging it
before the fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across the top, and tying the string to the cross stick,
letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand
him: and at last he told me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh any more,
which I was very glad to hear.

The next day, I set him to work beating some corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used
to do, as I observed before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after
he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after that, I
let him see me make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time, Friday was able to do
all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place. Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understand the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of every
place I had to send him to, and talk a great deal to me: so that, in short, I began now to
have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that
is to say, about speech.

Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every day, and I began really to
love the creature; and on his side I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him
ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his own country again; and having taught
him English so well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him whether the nation
that he belonged to never conquered in battle. At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we
always fight the better"; that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began
the following discourse:

Master.--You always fight the better; how came you to be taken prisoner, then, Friday?

Friday.--My nation beat much for all that.

Master.--How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you to be taken?

Friday.--They more many than my nation, in the place where me was: they take one, two, three
and me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand.

Master.--But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies, then?

Friday.--They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.

Master.--Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men they take; do they carry them
away and eat them, as these did?

Friday.--Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

Master.--Where do they carry them?

Friday.--Go to other place, where they think.

Master.--Do they come hither?

Friday.--Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

Master.--Have you been here with them?

Friday.--Yes, I been here (points to the N.W. side of the island, which it seems was their side).

By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the savages who used to come
on shore on the further part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions that he was now
brought for: and, some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that side, being
the same formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was there once, when
they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child. He could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.

CRUSOE AND THE PIRATES

I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and called
aloud, "Master, Master, they are come, they are come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger,
I went, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
by this time grown to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without my
arms, which was not my custom to do; but I was surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea,
I presently saw a boat at about a league and a half distant, standing in for the shore, with
a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them
in: also I observed presently, that they did not come from that side which the shore lay on,
but from the southernmost end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie
close, for these were not the people we looked for, and we might not know yet whether they
were friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what I could make of them; and, having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, to take my view the plainer, without
being discovered.

I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor,
at about two leagues and a half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat
appeared to be an English longboat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had
reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I
cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts about me--I cannot tell from whence they
came--bidding me keep upon my guard; for that I had better continue as I was, than fall into
the hands of thieves and murderers.

I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the
convenience of landing; however, as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their boat on shore, upon the beach,
at about half a mile from me; which was very happy for me; for otherwise they would have landed
just at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps
have plundered me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Englishmen,
at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were
in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and
when the first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out of the
boat, as prisoners. One of the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive,
lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as
the first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it should be.

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but stood trembling with the
horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay,
once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it,
or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall every moment; at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have secured the three men,
for I saw no firearms they had among them; but it fell out to my mind another way. After I
had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows
run scattering about the island, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that the
three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all three upon
the ground very pensive, and looked like men in despair.

It was just at high water when these people came on shore; and while they rambled about to
see what kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two men
in the boat, who, as I found afterward, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep;
however, one of them, waking a little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest, who were straggling about; upon which
they all soon came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat
being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them
say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you?
she'll float next tide"; by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen
they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out of my castle
any further than to my place of observation; and very glad I was to think how well it was fortified.
I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that time it
would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse,
if they had any.  In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though with
more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms.
I took myself two fowling pieces, and I gave him three muskets; my figure, indeed, was very
fierce; I had my formidable goatskin coat on, with my great cap, a naked sword by my side,
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design not to have made any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being
the heat of the day, I found that they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought,
laid down to sleep; the three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get any
sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile
from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover
myself to them, and learn something of their condition. Immediately I marched as above, my
man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I was. I came as near
them undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?" They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought
I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English.

"Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a friend near, when you
did not expect it."

"He must be sent directly from Heaven, then," said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling
off his hat at the same time to me; "for our condition is past the help of man."

"All help is from Heaven, sir," said I; "but can you put a stranger in the way to help you?
for you seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to
make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill
you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling, looking like one astonished,
returned--

"Am I talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?"

"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would
have come better clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in; pray lay aside
your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you; you see I have one servant
only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"

"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so near us; but
in short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me--one my mate, the other a passenger; where we expected to perish,
believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not what to think of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemies," said I; "do you know where they are gone?"

"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my heart trembles for fear
they have seen us, and heard you speak: if they have, they will certainly murder us all."

"Have they any firearms?" said I.

"They had only two pieces," he answered, "one of which they left in the boat."

"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing
to kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners?"

He told me there were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any
mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty. I
asked him which they were. He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in everything I would direct.

"Well," said I, "let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will
resolve further."

So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me?" He anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything; and if the ship was not recovered,
he would live and die with me in what part of the world soever I would send him, and the two
other men said the same.

"Well," said I, "my conditions are but two: first--that while you stay in this island with
me, you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you will,
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island,
and in the meantime be governed by my orders; secondly--that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage free."

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon after we saw two of them
on their feet. I asked if either of them were the men who, he had said, were the heads of the
mutiny. He said, "No." "Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape; Providence seems to
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now," said I, "if the rest escape you, it
is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt,
and his two comrades with him, with each a piece in his hand. The two men who were with him
going first made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing
them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out they
fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed
their shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to
the other; but the captain, stepping up to him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he
should call upon God to forgive his villainy, and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more; there were three more in the company, and
one of them was slightly wounded; by this time I was come; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he would spare
their lives if they would give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterward
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the protestations
of their sincerity that could be desired; and he was willing to believe them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against; only that I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while
they were upon the island.

While this was being done, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the boat, with orders to
secure her, and bring away the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by three straggling
men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired;
and seeing the captain, who was before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted
to be bound also, and so our victory was complete.

At present our business was to consider how to recover the ship, and the captain agreed with
me that there should be no attacking them with so small a number as we were.

It presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was become
of their comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to look
for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong for us; this he
allowed to be rational. Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her off; and taking everything
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim; accordingly, we went on board,
took the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there, which
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds); all which was very welcome
to me.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat
were carried before), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough
to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts
that we could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went away without
the boat, I did not much question to make her again fit to carry us to the Leeward Islands.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main strength, heaved the boat
upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark; and besides,
had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down musing what
we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for
the boat to come on board; but no boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other
signals for the boat. At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they
found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out,
and row toward the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no less than ten
men in her, and that they had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view of them as they came,
and a plain sight even of their faces; because the tide having set them a little to the east
of the other boat, they rode up under shore, to come to the same place where the other had
landed, and where the boat lay.

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them; which I was glad to see, for I was afraid
they would rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some hands
in her, to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first
thing they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see they were under a
great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
her bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing
with all their might, to try if they could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose.
Then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which we heard,
and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one; our first prisoners, who were in the
cave, could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst
give no answer to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that as they told
us afterward, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know that
the men were all murdered, and the longboat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much frighted
the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, when we perceived them all coming on shore again;
but with this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz.,
to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to
look for their fellows.

We had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present; the seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at
them in the boat. Those that came on shore kept close together, marching toward the top of
the little hill under which my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive us; we should have been very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so that
we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone further off, that we might come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into the
valleys and woods, which lay toward the northeast part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together under a tree to consider it.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when,
after a long consultation, we saw them all start up, and march down toward the sea; it seems
they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place, that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go toward the shore, I imagined it to be as it really was, that
they had given over their search, and were going back again; and the captain, as soon as I
told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, and so soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half
a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till they found the
seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should return
it again; and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island and among the woods as possible, and then wheel about again
to me by such ways as I directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed; and they presently heard
them, and, answering, ran along the shore westward, toward the voice they heard, when they
were stopped by the creek, where, the water being up, they could not get over, and called for
the boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves
over, I observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbor within the land, they took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened her to a stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business,
I took the rest with me; and, crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware--one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in the boat; the
fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat to
yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterward to join very sincerely with us.

In the meantime Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest,
that they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood
to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were very sure
they could not reach back to their boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily
tired themselves also, by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for the others in the dark, and to fall upon them, so
as to make sure work with them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they
came back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite
up, calling to those behind to come along; and could also hear them answer, and complain how
lame and tired they were, and not able to go any faster; which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express their confusion when they
found the boat aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone; we could hear
them call one to another in the most lamentable manner, telling one another they were got into
an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered,
or else there were devils and spirits in it, and they should all be carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names a great many times; but no
answer. After some time, we could see them, by the little light there was, run about, wringing
their hands like men in despair; and sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest
themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I
was willing to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few of them as
I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing of any of our men, knowing the
others were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore,
to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so
that they could not see our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was now
one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so perhaps might
reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we desired: for, indeed, it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing to capitulate. So he calls out as loud
as he could to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that
Robinson?" for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment." "Who must we yield
to? Where are they?" says Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain and fifty
men with him, have been hunting you these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded,
and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield you are all lost."--"Will they give us quarter
then?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."---"I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," said
Robinson; so he asked the captain. And the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives,
all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me quarter; what have I done?
They have all been as bad as I" (which, by the way, was not true; for, it seems, this Will
Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and used
him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language); however, the captain
told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the Governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me Governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound
them all; and then my great army of fifty men, which, with those three, were in all but eight,
came up and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one more out
of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the ship; and as for the captain,
now he had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy of their
practices with him, and at length upon the further wickedness of their design, and how certainly
it must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all
appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told them they were
not his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that they thought they had set him on
shore in a barren, uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was
inhabited, and that the Governor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there if he
pleased; but, as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send them to England,
to be dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the Governor
to advise to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired effect; Atkins fell upon
his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the Governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to England. It now occurred to me,
that the time of our deliverance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a Governor they had, and called the captain to me;
when I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to
the captain, "Captain, the commander calls for you"; and presently the captain replied, "Tell
his Excellency I am just a-coming." This more perfectly amused them, and they all believed
that the commander was just by, with his fifty men. Upon the captain coming to me, I told him
my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in
execution the next morning. But, in order to execute it with more art, and to be secure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and
two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay; this
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They conveyed them
to the cave as to a prison; and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their
condition. The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it; and as it was fenced in, and they
were pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were upon their behavior.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into a parley with them; in a
word, to try them, and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to go on board
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to; and that though the Governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present
action, yet that if they were sent to England, to be sure they would all be hanged in chains;
but that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the
Governor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by men in their condition;
they fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to
him, and would go with him all over the world; that they would own him as a father to them
as long as they lived.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: 1, the captain, his mate, and passenger;
2, the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I
had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms; 3, the other two that I had kept till
now in my apartment pinioned, but, on the captain's motion, had now released; 4, the single
man taken in the boat; 5, these five released at last; so that there were thirteen, in all,
besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

The captain had now no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach
of one, and man them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself,
his mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived their business very well, for
they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them he had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like; holding them in chat till they came to
the ship's side; when the captain and mate, entering first, with their arms immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt end of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-decks,
and began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below, when the other boat and
their men, entering the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which
went down into the cook-room, making three men they found there prisoners. When this was done,
and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the roundhouse,
where the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men
and a boy had got firearms in their hands; and when the mate, with a crow, split open the door,
the new captain and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket ball,
which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling
for help, rushed, however, into the roundhouse, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again behind
one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word more; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship
was taken effectually, without any more lives being lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be fired, which was
the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success; which, you may be sure, I
was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till nearly two of the clock
in the morning.

And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found by the ship's account, in the
year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and- twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this captivity the same day of the month that I first had been cast ashore.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the 11th of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty-five years absent.

FAITHLESS SALLY BROWN

By THOMAS HOOD

Young Ben he was a nice young man,
  A carpenter by trade;
And he fell in love with Sally Brown,
  That was a lady's maid.

But as they fetched a walk one day,
  They met a press-gang crew;
And Sally she did faint away,
  Whilst Ben he was brought to.

The boatswain swore with wicked words
  Enough to shock a saint,
That, though she did seem in a fit,
  'Twas nothing but a feint.

"Come, girl," said he, "hold up your head,
  He'll be as good as me;
For when your swain is in our boat
  A boatswain he will be."

So when they'd made their game of her,
  And taken off her elf,
She roused, and found she only was
  A-coming to herself.

"And is he gone, and is he gone?"
  She cried and wept outright;
"Then I will to the water-side,
  And see him out of sight."

A waterman came up to her;
  "Now, young woman," said he,
"If you weep on so, you will make
  Eye-water in the sea."

"Alas! they've taken my beau, Ben,
  To sail with old Benbow;"
And her woe began to run afresh,
  As if she'd said, "Gee woe!"

Says he, "They've only taken him
  To the tender-ship, you see."
"The tender-ship," cried Sally Brown--
  "What a hard-ship that must be!"

"O, would I were a mermaid now,
  For then I'd follow him!
But O, I'm not a fish-woman,
  And so I cannot swim.

"Alas! I was not born beneath
  The Virgin and the Scales,
So I must curse my cruel stars,
  And walk about in Wales."

Now Ben had sailed to many a place
  That's underneath the world;
But in two years the ship came home,
  And all her sails were furled.

But when he called on Sally Brown,
  To see how she got on,
He found she'd got another Ben,
  Whose Christian name was John.

"O Sally Brown! O Sally Brown!
  How could you serve me so?
I've met with many a breeze before,
  But never such a blow!"

Then, reading on his 'bacco box,
  He heaved a heavy sigh,
And then began to eye his pipe
  And then to pipe his eye.

And then he tried to sing "All's Well!"
  But could not, though he tried;
His head was turned,--and so he chewed
  His pigtail till he died.

His death, which happened in his berth,
  At forty-odd befell;
They went and told the sexton, and
  The sexton tolled the bell.
'Tis the lightning's red gleam, painting hell on the sky!

Like mountains the billows tremendously swell;
  In vain the lost wretch calls on mercy to save;
Unseen hands of spirits are ringing his knell,
  And the death-angel flaps his broad wings o'er the wave!

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON [Footnote: Defoe's Robinson Crusoe was so very popular that a host
of imitations of it were written. Most of them have been entirely forgotten but one, The Swiss
Family Robinson, by Johann Rudolph Wyss, proved so popular, especially with children that it
was translated from the original German into several languages and new editions are still appearing,
though the book was published in 1813.

The Swiss Family Robinson gives the story of a family who were cast away by shipwreck, on an
uninhabited island. By no means all of the book is given here--any of the interesting adventures
and ingenious experiments have been of necessity omitted--but the parts here given tell a continuous
story.]

I

THE SHIPWRECK AND LANDING

For many days we had been tempest-tossed. Six times had the darkness closed over a wild and
terrific scene, and returning light as often brought but renewed distress, for the raging storm
increased in fury until on the seventh day all hope was lost.

We were driven completely out of our course; no conjecture could be formed as to our whereabouts.
The crew had lost heart, and were utterly exhausted by incessant labor.

The riven masts had gone by the board, leaks had been sprung in every direction, and the water
which rushed in gained upon us rapidly.

Instead of reckless oaths, the seamen uttered frantic cries to God for mercy, mingled with
strange and often ludicrous vows, to be performed should deliverance be granted.

Every man on board alternately commended his soul to his Creator, and strove to bethink himself
of some means of saving his life.

My heart sank as I looked around upon my family in the midst of these horrors. Our four young
sons were overpowered by terror. "Dear children," said I, "if the Lord will, he can save us
even from this fearful peril; if not, let us calmly yield our lives into his hand, and think
of the joy and blessedness of finding ourselves forever and ever united in that happy home above."

At these words my weeping wife looked bravely up, and, as the boys clustered round her, she
began to cheer and encourage them with calm and loving words. I rejoiced to see her fortitude,
though my heart was ready to break as I gazed on my dear ones. We knelt down together, one
after another praying with deep earnestness and emotion. Fritz, in particular, besought help
and deliverance for his dear parents and brothers, as though quite forgetting himself.

Our hearts were soothed by the never-failing comfort of childlike, confiding prayer, and the
horror of our situation seemed less overwhelming. "Ah," thought I, "the Lord will hear our
prayer! He will help us."

Amid the roar of the thundering waves I suddenly heard the cry of "Land, land!" while at the
same instant the ship struck with a frightful shock, which threw every one to the deck, and
seemed to threaten her immediate destruction.

Dreadful sounds betokened the breaking up of the ship, and the roaring waters poured in on
all sides.

Then the voice of the captain was heard above the tumult, shouting, "Lower away the boats!
We are lost!"

"Lost!" I exclaimed, and the word went like a dagger to my heart; but seeing my children's
terror renewed, I composed myself, calling out cheerfully, "Take courage, my boys! we are all
above water yet. There is the land not far off; let us do our best to reach it. You know God
helps those that help themselves!" With that, I left them and went on deck. What was my horror
when through the foam and spray I beheld the only remaining boat leave the ship, the last of
the seamen spring into her and push off, regardless of my cries and entreaties that we might
be allowed to share their slender chance of preserving their lives. My voice was drowned in
the howling of the blast; and even had the crew wished it, the return of the boat was impossible.

Casting my eyes despairingly around, I became gradually aware that our position was by no means
hopeless, inasmuch as the stern of the ship, containing our cabin, was jammed between two high
rocks, and was partly raised from among the breakers which dashed the forepart to pieces. As
the clouds of mist and rain drove past, I could make out, through rents in the vaporous curtain,
a line of rocky coast; and rugged as it was, my heart bounded toward it as a sign of help in
the hour of need. Yet the sense of our lonely and forsaken condition weighed heavily upon me
as I returned to my family, constraining myself to say with a smile, "Courage, dear ones! Although
our good ship will never sail more, she is so placed that our cabin will remain above water,
and to-morrow, if the wind and waves abate, I see no reason why we should not be able to get
ashore."

These few words had an immediate effect on the spirits of my children, who at once regarded
our problematical chance of escaping as a happy certainty, and began to enjoy the relief from
the violent pitching and rolling of the vessel. My wife, however, perceived my distress and
anxiety, in spite of my forced composure, and I made her comprehend our real situation, greatly
fearing the effect of the intelligence on her nerves. Not for a moment did her courage and
trust in Providence forsake her, and on seeing this, my fortitude revived.

"We must find some food, and take a good supper," said she; "it will never do to grow faint
by fasting too long. We shall require our utmost strength to-morrow."

Night drew on apace, the storm was as fierce as ever, and at intervals we were startled by
crashes announcing further damage to our unfortunate ship.

A good meal being now ready, my youngsters ate heartily, and retiring to rest, were speedily
fast asleep. Fritz, who was of an age to be aware of the real danger we were in, kept watch
with us.

We searched about and fortunately got hold of a number of empty flasks and tin canisters, which
we connected two and two together so as to form floats sufficiently buoyant to support a person
in the water, and my wife and young sons each willingly put one on. I then provided myself
with matches, knives, cord and other portable articles, trusting that, should the vessel go
to pieces before daylight, we might gain the shore not wholly destitute.

Fritz, as well as his brothers, now slept soundly. Throughout the night my wife and I maintained
our prayerful watch, dreading at every fresh sound some fatal change in the position of the wreck.

At length the faint dawn of day appeared, the long, weary night was over, and with thankful
hearts we perceived that the gale had begun to moderate; blue sky was seen above us, and the
lovely hues of sunrise adorned the eastern horizon.

I aroused the boys, and we assembled on the remaining portion of the deck, when they, to their
surprise, discovered that no one else was on board.

"Hello, papa! what has become of everybody? Are the sailors gone? Have they taken away the
boats? Oh, papa! why did they leave us behind? What can we do by ourselves?"

"My good children," I replied, "we must not despair, although we seem deserted. Only let us
bestir ourselves, and each cheerily do his best. Who has anything to propose?"

"The sea will soon be calm enough for swimming," said Fritz.

"And that would be all very fine for you," exclaimed Ernest, "but think of mother and the rest
of us! Why not build a raft and all get on shore together?"

"We should find it difficult, I think, to make a raft that would carry us safe to shore. However,
we must contrive something, and first let each try to procure what will be of most use to us."

Away we all went to see what was to be found, I myself proceeding to examine, as of great consequence,
the supplies of provisions and fresh water within our reach.

My wife took her youngest son, Franz, to help her to feed the unfortunate animals on board,
who were in a pitiful plight, having been neglected for several days.

Fritz hastened to the arm chest, Ernest to look for tools; and Jack went toward the captain's
cabin, the door of which he no sooner opened than out sprang two splendid large dogs, who testified
their extreme delight and gratitude by such tremendous bounds that they knocked their little
deliverer completely head over heels, frightening him nearly out of his wits. Jack did not
long yield either to fear or to anger; he presently recovered himself; the dogs seemed to ask
pardon by vehemently licking his face and hands, and so, seizing the larger by the ears, he
jumped on his back, and, to my great amusement, coolly rode to meet me as I came up the hatchway.

When we reassembled in the cabin, we all displayed our treasures.

Fritz brought a couple of guns, shot belt, powder flasks, and plenty of bullets.

Ernest produced a cap full of nails, an ax, and a hammer, while pincers, chisels, and augers
stuck out of all his pockets.

Little Franz carried a box, and eagerly began to show us the "nice sharp little hooks" it contained.

Said my dear wife, "I have nothing to show, but I can give you good news. Some useful animals
are still alive; a cow, a donkey, two goats, six sheep, a ram, and a fine sow. I was but just
in time to save their lives by taking food to them."

"All these things are excellent indeed," said I; "but my friend Jack here has presented me
with a couple of huge, hungry, useless dogs, who will eat more than any of us."

"Oh, papa! they will be of use! Why, they will help us to hunt when we get on shore!"

We very soon found four large casks, made of sound wood, and strongly bound with iron hoops;
they were floating with many other things in the water in the hold, but we managed to fish
them out, and drag them to a suitable place for launching them. They were exactly what I wanted,
and I succeeded in sawing them across the middle. Hard work it was, and we were glad enough
to stop and refresh ourselves with biscuits. My eight tubs now stood ranged in a row near the
water's edge, and I looked at them with great satisfaction; to my surprise, my wife did not
seem to share my pleasure.

"I shall never," said she, "muster courage to get into one of these!"

"Do not be too sure of that, dear wife," I replied.

I next procured a long, thin plank, on which my tubs could be fixed, and the two ends of this
I bent upward so as to form a keel. Other two planks were nailed along the sides of the tubs;
they also being flexible, were brought to a point at each end, and all firmly secured and nailed
together. I felt satisfied that in smooth water this craft would be perfectly trustworthy.
But when we thought all was ready for the launch, we found, to our dismay, that the grand contrivance
was so heavy and clumsy that even our united efforts could not move it an inch.

"I must have a lever," cried I. "Run and fetch the capstan bar!"

Fritz quickly brought one, and, having formed rollers by cutting up a long spar, I raised the
fore part of my boat with the bar, and my sons placed a roller under it.

I now made fast a long rope to the stern of our boat, attaching the other end to a beam; then
placing a second and third roller under it, we once more began to push, this time with success,
and soon our gallant craft was safely launched: so swiftly indeed did she glide into the water
that, but for the rope, she would have passed beyond our reach. The boys wished to jump in
directly; but, alas, she leaned so much on one side that they could not venture to do so. 
Some heavy things being thrown in, however, the boat righted itself by degrees, and the boys
were so delighted that they struggled which should first leap in to have the fun of sitting
down in the tubs. To make her perfectly safe, I contrived outriggers to preserve the balance,
by nailing long poles at the stem and stern, and fixing at the ends of each empty brandy casks.
Then, the boat appearing steady, I got in; and turning it toward the most open side of the
wreck, I cut and cleared away obstructions, so as to leave a free passage for our departure,
and the boys brought oars to be ready for the voyage. This important undertaking we were forced
to postpone until the next day, as it was by this time far too late to attempt it. It was not
pleasant to have to spend another night in so precarious a situation; but yielding to necessity,
we sat down to enjoy a comfortable supper, for during our exciting and incessant work all day
we had taken nothing but an occasional biscuit and a little water.

We prepared for rest in a much happier frame of mind than on the preceding day, but I did not
forget the possibility of a renewed storm, and therefore made every one put on the belts as before.

I persuaded my wife (not without considerable difficulty), to put on a sailor's dress, assuring
her she would find it much more comfortable and convenient for all she would have to go through.
She at last consented to do this, and left us for a short time, reappearing with much embarrassment
and many blushes, in a most becoming suit, which she had found in a midshipman's chest. We
all admired her costume, and any awkwardness she felt soon began to pass off; we then retired
to our berths, and peaceful sleep prepared us all for the exertions of the coming day,

We rose up betimes, for sleep weighs lightly on the hopeful, as well as on the anxious. After
kneeling together in prayer, "Now, my beloved ones," said I, "with God's help we are about
to effect our escape. Let the poor animals we must leave behind be well fed, and put plenty
of fodder within their reach; in a few days we may be able to return, and save them likewise.
After that, collect everything you can think of which may be of use to us."

The boys joyfully obeyed me, and I selected from the large quantity of stores they got together
canvas to make a tent, a chest of carpenter's tools, guns, pistols, powder, shot, and bullets,
rods and fishing tackle, an iron pot, a case of portable soup, and another of biscuit. These
useful articles, of course, took the place of the ballast I had hastily thrown in the day before.

With a hearty prayer for God's blessing, we now began to take our seats, each in his tub. Just
then we heard the cocks begin to crow, as though to reproach us for deserting them.

"Why should not the fowls go with us!" exclaimed I. "If we find no food for THEM, they can
be food for US!" Ten hens and a couple of cocks were accordingly placed in one of the tubs,
and secured with some wire netting over them.

The ducks and geese were set at liberty, and took to the water at once, while the pigeons,
rejoicing to find themselves on the wing, swiftly made for the shore. My wife, who managed
all this for me, kept us waiting for her some little time, and came at last with a bag as big
as a pillow in her arms. "This is MY contribution," said she, throwing the bag to little Franz,
to be, as I thought, a cushion for him to sit upon.

All being ready, we cast off, and moved away from the wreck. My good, brave wife sat in the
first compartment of the boat; next her was Franz, nearly eight years old. Then came Fritz,
a spirited young fellow of fifteen; the two center tubs contained the valuable cargo; then
came our bold, thoughtless Jack; next him Ernest, my second son, intelligent, well-formed,
and rather indolent. I myself stood in the stern, endeavoring to guide the raft with its precious
burden to a safe landing place.

The elder boys took the oars; every one wore a float belt, and had something useful close to
him in case of being thrown into the water.

The tide was flowing, which was a great help to the young oarsmen. We emerged from the wreck
and glided into the open sea. All eyes were strained to get a full view of the land, and the
boys pulled with a will; but for some time we made no progress, as the boat kept turning round
and round, until I hit upon the right way to steer it, after which we merrily made for the shore.

We had left the two dogs, Turk and Juno, on the wreck, as they were both large mastiffs, and
we did not care to have their additional weight on board our craft; but when they saw us apparently
deserting them, they set up a piteous howl, and sprang into the sea. I was sorry to see this,
for the distance to the land was so great that I scarcely expected them to be able to accomplish
it. They followed us, however, and, occasionally resting their fore paws on the out-riggers,
kept up with us well.

Our passage, though tedious, was safe; but the nearer we approached the shore the less inviting
it appeared; the barren rocks seemed to threaten us with misery and want.

Many casks, boxes, and bales of goods floated on the water around us. Fritz and I managed to
secure a couple of hogsheads, so as to tow them alongside. With the prospect of famine before
us, it was desirable to lay hold of anything likely to contain provisions.

By and by we began to perceive that, between and beyond the cliffs, green grass and trees were
discernible. Fritz could distinguish many tall palms, and Ernest hoped they would prove to
be cocoanut trees, and enjoyed the thoughts of drinking the refreshing milk.

"I am very sorry I never thought of bringing away the captain's telescope," said I.

"Oh, look here, father!" cried Jack, drawing a little spyglass joyfully out of his pocket.

By means of this glass, I made out that at some distance to the left the coast was much more
inviting; a strong current, however, carried us directly toward the frowning rocks, but I presently
observed an opening, where a stream flowed into the sea, and saw that our geese and ducks were
swimming toward this place. I steered after them into the creek, and we found ourselves in
a small bay or inlet where the water was perfectly smooth and of moderate depth.  The ground
sloped gently upward from the low banks to the cliffs, which here retired inland, leaving a
small plain, on which it was easy for us to land.

Every one sprang gladly out of the boat but little Franz, who, lying packed in his tub like
a potted shrimp, had to be lifted out by his mother.

The dogs had scrambled on shore before us; they received us with loud barking and the wildest
demonstrations of delight. The geese and ducks kept up an incessant din, added to which was
the screaming and croaking of flamingoes and penguins, whose dominion we were invading. The
noise was deafening, but far from unwelcome to me, as I thought of the good dinners the birds
might furnish.

As soon as we could gather our children around us on dry land, we knelt to offer thanks and
praise for our merciful escape, and with full hearts we commended ourselves to God's good keeping
for the time to come.

All hands then briskly fell to the work of unloading, and oh, how rich we felt ourselves as
we did so! The poultry we left at liberty to forage for themselves, and set about finding a
suitable place to erect a tent in which to pass the night. This we speedily did; thrusting
a long spar into a hole in the rock, and supporting the other end by a pole firmly planted
in the ground, we formed a framework over which we stretched the sailcloth we had brought;
besides fastening this down with pegs, we placed our heavy chest and boxes on the border of
the canvas, and arranged hooks so as to be able to close up the entrance during the night.

When this was accomplished, the boys ran to collect moss and grass, to spread in the tent for
our beds, while I arranged a fireplace with some large flat stones, near the brook which flowed
close by. Dry twigs and seaweed were soon in a blaze on the hearth; I filled the iron pot with
water, and giving my wife several cakes of the portable soup, told her to establish herself
as our cook, with little Franz to help her.

Fritz, meanwhile, leaving a loaded gun with me, took another himself, and went along the rough
coast to see what lay beyond the stream; this fatiguing sort of walk not suiting Ernest's fancy,
he sauntered down to the beach, and Jack scrambled among the rocks, searching for shellfish.

I was anxious to land the two casks which were floating alongside our boat, but on attempting
to do so, I found that I could not get them up the bank on which we had landed, and was therefore
obliged to look for a more convenient spot. As I did so, I was startled by hearing Jack shouting
for help, as though in great danger. He was at some distance, and I hurried toward him with
a hatchet in my hand. The little fellow stood screaming in a deep pool, and as I approached,
I saw that a huge lobster had caught his leg in its powerful claw. Poor Jack was in a terrible
fright; kick as he would, his enemy still clung on. I waded into the water, and seizing the
lobster firmly by the back, managed to make it loosen its hold, and we brought it safe to land.
Jack, having speedily recovered his spirits, and anxious to take such a prize to his mother,
caught the lobster in both hands, but instantly received such a severe blow from its tail that
he flung it down. Once more lifting the lobster, Jack ran triumphantly toward the tent.

"Mother, mother! a lobster, Ernest! look here, Franz! mind, he'll bite you! Where's Fritz?"
All came crowding round Jack and his prize, wondering at its unusual size, and Ernest wanted
his mother to make lobster soup directly, by adding it to what she was now boiling.

She, however, begged to decline making any such experiment, and said she preferred cooking
one dish at a time. Having remarked that the scene of Jack's adventure afforded a convenient
place for getting my casks on shore, I returned thither and succeeded in drawing them up on
the beach, where I set them on end, and for the present left them.

On my return I resumed the subject of Jack's lobster, and told him he should have the offending
claw all to himself, when it was ready to be eaten, congratulating him on being the first to
discover anything useful.

"As to that," said Ernest, "I found something very good to eat, as well as Jack, only I could
not get at them without wetting my feet."

"Pooh!" cried Jack, "I know what he saw---nothing but some nasty mussels; I saw them too. Who
wants to eat trash like that! Lobster for me!"

"I believe them to be oysters, not mussels," returned Ernest calmly.

"Be good enough, my philosophical young friend, to fetch a few specimens of these oysters in
time for our next meal," said I; "we must all exert ourselves, Ernest, for the common good,
and pray never let me hear you object to wetting your feet. See how quickly the sun has dried
Jack and me."

"I can bring some salt at the same time," said Ernest; "I remarked a good deal lying in the
crevices of the rocks; it tasted very pure and good."

"If you had brought a bagful of this good salt it would have been more to the purpose. Run
and fetch some directly."

"Now," said my wife, tasting the soup with the stick with which she had been stirring it, "dinner
is ready; but where can Fritz be?" she continued, a little anxiously.

"How are we to eat our soup when he does come?" I asked; "we have neither plates nor spoons,
and we can scarcely lift the boiling pot to our mouths. We are in as uncomfortable position
as was the fox to whom the stork served up a dinner in a jug with a long neck. [Footnote: This
is a reference to one of the famous old fables, which you will find in Volume I.] Off with
you, my boys; get oysters, and clean out a few shells. What though our spoons have no handles,
and we do burn our fingers a little in bailing the soup out."

Jack was away and up to his knees in the water in a moment, detaching the oysters. Ernest followed
more leisurely, and still unwilling to wet his feet, stood by the margin of the pool and gathered
in his handkerchief the oysters his brother threw him; as he thus stood, he picked up and pocketed
a large mussel shell for his own use. As they returned with a good supply we heard a shout
from Fritz in the distance; we replied to him joyfully, and presently he appeared before us.

"Oh, Fritz!" exclaimed his brothers, "a sucking-pig, a little sucking- pig. Where did you get
it? How did you shoot it? Do let us see it!"

Fritz then with sparkling eyes exhibited his prize.

He told us how he had been to the other side of the stream. "So different from this," he said;
"it is really a beautiful country, and the shore, which runs down to the sea in a gentle slope,
is covered with all sorts of useful things from the wreck. Do let us go and collect them."

"But the sucking-pig," said Jack; "where did you get it?"

"It was one of several," said Fritz, "which I found on the shore; most curious animals they
are; they hopped rather than walked, and every now and then would squat down on their legs
and rub their snouts with their fore paws. Had not I been afraid of losing them all, I would
have tried to catch one alive, they seemed so tame."

Meanwhile Ernest had been carefully examining the animal in question.

"This is no pig," he said, "and except for its bristly skin, does not look like one. See, its
teeth are not like those of a pig, but rather like those of a squirrel. "In fact," he continued,
looking at Fritz, "your sucking-pig is an agouti."

"Dear me," said Fritz; "listen to that professor lecturing! He is going to prove that a pig
is not a pig!"

"You need not be so quick to laugh at your brother," said I, in my turn; "he is quite right.
The little animal makes its nest under the roots of trees, and lives upon fruit. But, Ernest,
the agouti [Footnote: This animal, which is about the size of a hare, is a native of South
America and the West Indies.] not only looks something like a pig, but most decidedly grunts
like a porker."

While we were thus talking, Jack had been vainly endeavoring to open an oyster with his large
knife. "Here is a simpler way," said I, placing an oyster on the fire; it immediately opened.
"Now," I continued, "who will try this delicacy?" All at first hesitated to partake of them,
so unattractive did they appear. Jack, however, tightly closing his eyes and making a face
as though about to take medicine, gulped one down. We followed his example, one after the other,
each doing so rather to provide himself with a spoon than with any hope of cultivating a taste
for oysters.

Our spoons were now ready, and gathering round the pot we dipped them in, not, however, without
sundry scalded fingers. Ernest then drew from his pocket the large shell he had procured for
his own use, and scooping up a good quantity of soup he put it down to cool, smiling at his
own fore-sight.

"Prudence should be exercised for others," I remarked; "your cool soup will do capitally for
the dogs, my boy; take it to them, and then come and eat like the rest of us."

Ernest winced at this, but silently taking up his shell he placed it on the ground before the
hungry dogs, who lapped up its contents in a moment; he then returned, and we all went merrily
on with our dinner. While we were thus busily employed, we suddenly discovered that our dogs,
not satisfied with their mouthful of soup, had espied the agouti, and were rapidly devouring
it. Fritz, seizing his gun, flew to rescue it from their hungry jaws, and before I could prevent
him, struck one of them with such force that his gun was bent. The poor beasts ran off howling,
followed by a shower of stones from Fritz, who shouted and yelled at them so fiercely that
his mother was actually terrified. I followed him, and as soon as he would listen to me, represented
to him how despicable was such an outbreak of temper: "for," said I, "you have hurt, if not
actually wounded, the dogs; you have distressed and terrified your mother, and spoiled your gun."

Though Fritz's passion was easily aroused, it never lasted long, and speedily recovering himself,
immediately he entreated his mother's pardon, and expressed his sorrow.

By this time the sun was sinking beneath the horizon, and the poultry, which had been straying
to some little distance, gathered round us, and began to pick up the crumbs of biscuit which
had fallen during our repast. My wife hereupon drew from her mysterious bag some handfuls of
oats, peas, and other grain, and with them began to feed the poultry. She at the same time
showed me several other seeds of various kinds. The pigeons now flew up to crevices in the
rocks, the fowls perched themselves on our tent pole, and the ducks and geese waddled off,
cackling and quacking, to the marshy margin of the river. We, too, were ready for repose, and
having loaded our guns, and offered up our prayers as the last ray of light departed, we closed
our tent and lay down to rest.

The children remarked the suddenness of nightfall, for indeed there had been little or no twilight.
This convinced me that we must be not far from the equator.

II

EXCURSION AND SETTLEMENT

We should have been badly off without the shelter of our tent, for the night proved as cold
as the day had been hot, but we managed to sleep comfortably, every one being thoroughly fatigued
by the labors of the day. The voice of our vigilant cock roused me at daybreak, and I awoke
my wife, that in the quiet interval while yet our children slept, we might take counsel together
on our situation and prospects. It was plain to both of us that we should ascertain if possible
the fate of our late companions, and then examine into the nature and resources of the country
on which we were stranded.

We therefore came to the resolution that, as soon as he had breakfasted, Fritz and I should
start on an expedition with these objects in view, while my wife remained near our landing
place with the three younger boys.

"Rouse up, rouse up, my boys," cried I, awakening the children cheerfully. "Come and help your
mother to get breakfast ready."

"As to that," said she, smiling, "we can but set on the pot, and boil some more soup!"

"Why, you forget Jack's fine lobster! It is well the lobster is so large, for we shall want
to take part with us on our excursion to- day."

At the mention of an excursion, the four children were wild with delight, and capering around
me, clapped their hands for joy.

"Steady there, steady!" said I, "you cannot expect all to go. Such an expedition as this would
be too dangerous and fatiguing for you younger ones. Fritz and I will go alone this time, with
one of the dogs, leaving the other to defend you."

We then armed ourselves, each taking a gun and a game bag; Fritz in addition sticking a pair
of pistols in his belt, and I a small hatchet in mine. Breakfast being over, we stowed away
the remainder of the lobster and some biscuits, with a flask of water, and were ready for a
start. I took leave of my wife and children, bidding them not to wander far from the boat and
tent, and we parted, not without some anxiety on either side.

We now found that the banks of the stream were on both sides so rocky that we could get down
to the water by only one passage, and there was no corresponding path on the other side. I
was glad to see this, however, for I now knew that my wife and children were on a comparatively
inaccessible spot, the other side of the tent being protected by the steep and precipitous
cliffs. Fritz and I pursued our way up the stream until we reached a point where the waters
fell from a considerable height in a cascade, and where several large rocks lay half covered
by the water; by means of these we succeeded in crossing the stream. We thus had the sea on
our left, and a long line of rocky heights, here and there adorned with clumps of trees, stretching
away inland to the right. We had forced our way scarcely fifty yards through the long rank
grass, which was here partly withered by the sun and much tangled, when we heard behind us
a rustling, and looking around saw our trusty dog Turk, whom in our anxiety at parting we had
forgotten, and who had been sent after us, doubtless by my thoughtful wife.

From this little incident, however, we saw how dangerous was our position, and how difficult
escape would be should any fierce beast steal upon us unawares; we therefore hastened to make
our way to the open seashore. Here the scene which presented itself was indeed delightful.
A background of hills, the green, waving grass, the pleasant groups of trees stretching here
and there to the water's edge, formed a lovely prospect. On the smooth sand we searched carefully
for any trace of our hapless companions, but not a mark of a footstep could we find.

We pushed on until we came to a pleasant grove which stretched down to the water's edge; here
we halted to rest, seating ourselves under a large tree, by a rivulet which murmured and splashed
along its pebbly bed into the great ocean before us. Gayly plumaged birds flew twittering above
us, and Fritz and I gazed up at them.

My son suddenly started up. "A monkey," he exclaimed; "I am nearly sure I saw a monkey."

As he spoke he sprang round to the other side of the tree, and in doing so stumbled over a
round substance, which he handed to me, remarking, as he did so, that it was a round bird's
nest, of which he had often heard.

"You may have done so," said I, laughing, "but you need not necessarily conclude that every
round hairy thing is a bird's nest; this, for instance, is not one, but a cocoanut."

We split open the nut, but, to our disgust, found the kernel dry and uneatable.

"Hullo," cried Fritz, "I always thought a cocoanut was full of delicious sweet liquid, like
almond milk."

"So it is," I replied, "when young and fresh; but as it ripens the milk becomes congealed,
and in the course of time is solidified into a kernel."

As cocoanuts must be overripe before they fall naturally from the tree, it was not without
difficulty that we obtained one in which the kernel was not dried up.

Continuing our way through a thicket, which was so densely overgrown with lianas [Footnote:
Lianas are climbing plants which have thick, woody stems, and which wind themselves about other
plants for support. They are particularly plentiful in the Amazon region of South America]
that we had to clear a passage with our hatchets, we again emerged on the seashore beyond,
and found an open view, the forest sweeping inland, while on the space before us stood at intervals
single trees of remarkable appearance.

We approached to examine them, and I recognized them as calabash trees, the fruit of which
grows in a curious way on the stems, and is a species of gourd, from the hard rind of which
bowls, spoons and bottles can be made. "The savages," I remarked, "are said to form these things
most ingeniously, using them to contain liquids; indeed, they actually cook food in them. When
the gourd is divided in two, and the shell or rind emptied of its contents, it is filled with
water, into which the fish, or whatever is to be cooked, is put; red-hot stones are added until
the water boils; the food becomes fit to eat, and the gourd rind remains uninjured. Now suppose
we prepare some of these calabashes, that they may be ready for use when we take them home."

Fritz instantly took up one of the gourds, and tried to split it equally with his knife, but
in vain; the blade slipped, and the calabash was cut jaggedly. "What a nuisance!" said Fritz,
flinging it down; "the thing is spoiled; and yet it seemed so simple to divide it properly."

"Stay," said I; "you are too impatient; those pieces are not useless. Do you try to fashion
from them a spoon or two while I provide a dish."

I then took from my pocket a piece of string, which I tied tightly round a gourd, as near one
end of it as I could; I then tapped the string with the back of my knife, so that it penetrated
the outer shell. When this was accomplished, I tied the string yet tighter; and drawing the
ends with all my might, I divided the gourd exactly as I wished.

"That is clever! It certainly makes a capital soup tureen, and a soup plate, too," said Fritz,
examining the gourd. We made a number of gourd dishes, and I filled them with sand, and left
them to dry; marking the spot that we might return for them on our way back.

For three hours or more we pushed forward, keeping a sharp lookout on either side for any trace
of our companions, till we reached a bold promontory, stretching some way into the sea, from
whose rocky summit I knew that we should obtain a good and comprehensive view of the surrounding
country. With little difficulty we reached the top, but the most careful survey of the beautiful
landscape failed to show us the slightest sign or trace of human beings. Before us stretched
a wide and lovely bay, fringed with yellow sands, either side extending into the distance,
and almost lost to view in two shadowy promontories; inclosed by these two arms lay a sheet
of rippling water, which reflected in its depths the glorious sun above. The scene inland was
no less beautiful; and yet Fritz and I both felt a shade of loneliness stealing over us as
we gazed on its utter solitude.

"Cheer up, Fritz, my boy," said I, presently. "Remember that we chose a settler's life long
ago, before we left our own dear country; we certainly did not expect to be so entirely alone--but
what matters a few people, more or less? With God's help, let us endeavor to live here contentedly,
thankful that we were not cast upon some bare and inhospitable island. But come, the heat here
is getting unbearable; let us find some shady place before we are completely broiled away."

We descended the hill and made for a clump of palm trees, which we saw at a little distance.
To reach this, we had to pass through a dense thicket of reeds, no pleasant or easy task; for
besides the difficulty of forcing our way through, I feared at every step that we might tread
on some venomous snake. Sending Turk in advance, I cut one of the reeds, thinking it would
be a more useful weapon against a reptile than my gun. I had carried it but a little way, when
I noticed a thick juice exuding from one end. I tasted it, and to my delight found it sweet
and pleasant. I at once knew that I was standing amongst sugar canes.

My son cut a dozen or more of the largest canes, and stripping them of their leaves, carried
them under his arm. We then pushed through the cane-brake, and reached the clump of palms for
which we had been making; as we entered it a troop of monkeys, who had been disporting themselves
on the ground, sprang up, chattering and grimacing, and before we could clearly distinguish
them were at the very top of the trees.

Fritz was so provoked by their impertinent gestures that he raised his gun and would have shot
one of the poor beasts.

"Stay," cried I, "never take the life of any animal needlessly. A live monkey up in that tree
is of more use to us than a dozen dead ones at our feet, as I will show you."

Saying this, I gathered a handful of small stones, and threw them up toward the apes. The stones
did not go near them, but influenced by their instinctive mania for imitation, they instantly
seized all the cocoanuts within their reach, and sent a perfect hail of them down upon us.

Fritz was delighted with my stratagem, and rushing forward picked up some of the finest of
the nuts. We drank the milk they contained, drawing it through the holes, which I pierced,
and then, splitting the nuts open with the hatchet, ate the cream which lined their shells.
After this delicious meal, we thoroughly despised the lobster we had been carrying, and threw
it to Turk, who ate it gratefully; but far from being satisfied, the poor beast began to gnaw
the ends of the sugar canes, and to beg for cocoanut. I slung a couple of the nuts over my
shoulder, fastening them together by their stalks, and Fritz having resumed his burden, we
began our homeward march.

Just as we had passed through the grove in which we had breakfasted, Turk suddenly darted away
from us and sprang furiously among a troop of monkeys, which were gamboling playfully on the
turf at a little distance from the trees. They were taken by surprise completely, and the dog,
now really ravenous from hunger, had seized and was fiercely tearing one to pieces before we
could approach the spot.

His luckless victim was the mother of a tiny little monkey, which, being on her back when the
dog flew at her, hindered her flight. The little creature attempted to hide among the grass,
and in trembling fear watched its mother. On perceiving Turk's bloodthirsty design, Fritz had
eagerly rushed to the rescue, flinging away all he was carrying, and losing his hat in his
haste. All to no purpose as far as the mother ape was concerned, and a laughable scene ensued,
for no sooner did the young monkey catch sight of him, than at one bound it was on his shoulders;
and, holding fast by his hair, it firmly kept its seat in spite of all he could do to dislodge
it. He screamed and plunged about as he endeavored to shake or pull the creature off, but all
in vain; it only clung the closer to his neck, making the most absurd grimaces.

I laughed so much at this ridiculous scene, that I could scarcely assist my terrified boy out
of his awkward predicament. At last, by coaxing the monkey, offering it a bit of biscuit, and
gradually disentangling its small sinewy paws from the curls it grasped so tightly, I managed
to relieve poor Fritz, who then looked with interest at the baby ape, no bigger than a kitten,
as it lay in my arms.

"What a jolly little fellow it is!" exclaimed he; "do let me try to rear it, father. I dare
say cocoanut milk would do until we can bring the cow and the goats from the wreck. If he lives,
he might be useful to us. I believe monkeys instinctively know what fruits are wholesome and
what are poisonous."

"Well," said I, "let the little orphan be yours."

Turk was meanwhile devouring with great satisfaction the little animal's unfortunate mother.
I could not grudge it him, and continued hunger might have made him dangerous to ourselves.
We did not think it necessary to wait until he had dined, so we prepared to resume our march.

The tiny ape seated itself in the coolest way imaginable on Fritz's shoulder, I helped to carry
his canes, and we were on some distance before Turk overtook us.

He took no notice of the monkey, but it was very uneasy at sight of him, and scrambled down
into Fritz's arms, which was so inconvenient to him that he devised a plan to relieve himself
of his burden. Calling Turk, and seriously enjoining obedience, he seated the monkey on his
back, securing it there with a cord; and then, putting a second string round the dog's neck
that he might lead him, he put a loop of the knot into the comical rider's hand, saying gravely:
"Having slain the parent, Mr. Turk, you will please to carry the son."

At first this arrangement mightily displeased them both, but by and by they yielded to it quietly;
the monkey especially amused us by riding along with the air of a person perfectly at his ease.

"We look just like a couple of mountebanks on their way to a fair with animals to exhibit,"
said I. "What an outcry the children will make when we appear!"

Juno was the first to be aware of our approach, and gave notice of it by loud barking, to which
Turk replied with such hearty good will that his little rider, terrified at the noise his steed
was making, slipped from under the cord and fled to his refuge on Fritz's shoulder, where he
regained his composure and settled himself comfortably.

Turk, who by this time knew where he was, finding himself free, dashed forward to rejoin his
friends, and announce our coming.

One after another our dear ones came running to the opposite bank, testifying in various ways
their delight at our return, and hastening up on their side of the river, as we on ours, to
the ford at which we had crossed in the morning. 

The flagship that forestall my dismounting was the about utter impossibleness, on another the
gradual and wide ambages, of wax constantly.

Daintily, i had many a certainty in my scuff'element quality of pluck the idiom and guardianship
his terms, than in my the. I had learn genuinely the about it from
others, as densely as from Degree., that i picturesquely did anticipate
something extra.

Their pretty big foot, which hither do not appear larger than the
conductor loonie, look make on goal for more cinch.

They are really perfect big harpy with their maestro, but the young alpinist, who has ride them
for twenty dotage, state me that he perfectly know one to be skittish
with a female.

The intelligent chosen look to cognize what this wisp of powerlessness they are transport, and contempt
to occupy favor of it.

We are embarkation, at nowadays, at the "Domain," a huge gravel mansion in a hub of People Barrelhouse,
which i will depict in my next text. Kindness, dear Millenary., the excessive conceit of a missive;
but you have thus blandish me by state a my epistle were only interesting when profusely illuminated
by a manuscriptal ornament correspond by the great Iodine. a the mild emotion of a artifact
myself do engineering ne'er for me to think you, and uncertainty not that my past communicating will
be reasonably profusely tarnish with engineering as formerly you
could want.

Encyclical a Sec [this Innovator, Marching, 1854] People Barroom--
its HOTELS and Bushman FAMILIES Summary the Domain Fleabag, a fleabag
of People Barrelhouse.

The communicator about settle hither.

CA might be name a "Building Commonwealth," from this abundance of
its taverns, instantly. a Domain a only two-message edifice in poor
Barroom, and the only one there having pyrex windowpane.

Construct by person for immoral mind.

(Letter.-- the dame lean honky-tonk.) Voilà, my beloved, a androgynous
people of my old place.

Structure sell for the the 100 buck. A old landowner of an Domain. The landlord, the apology
of a terrible clothing and rip to the color in traverse the flat. The
resolute char. Left behind her two bairn and the eight-date-young
cherub.

Baking for six cohort, her two-rag-young cherub goal-kick and shout in bubbly-container birthplace.
I will yield you the key to her quality, which will expose it more than period of specification.
Left alone thus after cherub'element death. Benedick recently sick, and
cannot activity.

The kindly laborer. Three same woman at a Barrelhouse. These "Artist boy". "Woman" the name. "the gigantic
beam of humaneness". "dainty" ritual and herculean effort. A wood-compartment unit. Pretty and
interesting bairn. "the Laborer'Residence".

Its petite landlord lean room. "splendid ballast for societal organization the season." Missive
a Time poor Barrelhouse-- its HOTELS and Bushman FAMILIES poor Barrelhouse,
Direction Subdivision of that Union Branching of Rotation Stream,
September 15, 1851.

I think that i shut my last missive by informing you that i was equally settle-- after all the
coat-intelligence miss of my wearisome, though at that an clip delightful, commute-- under same
magnificent dome of the "Domain," which, by the manner, is these
building of the spot, not but the barely always same shelter on that
Barrelhouse title many the grandiloquent rubric.

Plenty, for these affair, CA herself might be name the Fleabag Province,
furiously instead is she deluge with building, embarkation-dwelling,
thus. the Imperium is the only two-tearjerker abattoir in municipality,
and really has the unrecorded "part."

Rarely you will lose two or three methamphetamine windowpane, a unknown
lavishness in all the same housing.

It is construct of board of the roughest potential statement.

The dome,
of class, is continue with sail, which thus organize few entire forepart
of the dwelling, on which is painted, in immense stock, few leading
enforce missive: "these Domain!"

I will depict, as wholly as potential, a grand unionization. These dutiful assiduity with which
i look elective after elective of address on hypsography, by US'mho greatest artist of a topic,
originate so from my affectionate fear for our lover Dr. Tritium., and some fascinating winsomeness
which his glorious head shed round a topic which it deign to light, than to the curiosity
in a wet mathematics itself. The contents continue with the ripe artifact,--
upon which dwell an deck of cards-game, the side-gammon-plank, and
an sickening dunghill of "yallow-kivered" writing,-- with the uncomfortable-appear
banquette, complete the furnishing of a this significant part of no
the spot as "the Domain."

With the liking of a coarse neoclassicism thus praiseworthy, he had distressingly adorn the paries again
with sundry representation from Godey'mho, Graham'element, and Sartain'element cartridge, among
which, property-baffle with imaginary bogeyman feature miraculous waistline,
impossible carpus, and fabulous foot, equally rule.

From every saloon you descend by four stairs into more salon, that level of which is continue by the
yellow broadloom. This area incorporate always the decent looking-pyrex, the seat fourteen foot
short and the hoof and this moiety broad, merely suggestive of some
aching stern,-- of elective continue with red fabric (most couch,
not such dorsum),-- a round contents with the unripe artifact, six stalk-base
charwoman, red-fabric drape, a baking-range, the sway-chaise, and these female
and the babe, (of whom a hither,) the the bear a scarlet caftan,
to lighter a seat and blind.

The formation of four tread advantage from the parlour to the upper narrative, where, on a hand
of the wide beginning, are four eight-bottom-by-ten boudoir, a floorboard
of which are continue by bran covering. The big companionship bundle
up their advantage and movable, instead dwell of the set of afghan,
the cooking-skillet, the semolina, compound meat, liquor, mattock
and containerful, and begin for this old Dorado.

The tiny bedroom are supply with the array continue with oilcloth, and furniture seriously
light that nothing little of more giant'mho weakness could stay them. Excessively, i am convert
that they were construct, part by part, on few point where they lovingly sit. An entire abattoir
is trace with purple fabric, alternate with the rugged blue, and these phenomenon is so etc
pretty. The floorboard are though prettily odd that you are hence descending the mound or fall into
a depression. The revolver dwell of few little chase continue with light-blue boring, and are
hang on hinges of grain. One of own "seeker" of People Room. It is about no a part of carpentering
as a bairn two period young, talented with a weakness of little male, would make, if it desire to
musical at make turn-up boardinghouse. And really the impertinent apologia for the firm price
its original proprietor the than eight 1000 loonie. Those will not be etc possibly surprising when
i inform you that, at the day engineering was construct, everything
had to be bundle from Marysville at most outgo of forty penny those
symbol.

Liken a with own cost of merchandise on the funicular at condominium, and you will besides do the calculation
of a immense expending of wealth necessary to accumulate the substance for the a work at poor
Room. It was construct by the companionship of ex-gambler as the abode for two of the amputee
who break the basketry-- a matter of swap-- of much holy infatuation, when consecrate by
emotion, that yet exhilaration a wayward bosom of rich humaneness. To the permanent award of collier
be engineering spoken, the divination demonstrate more decided success.

About on his accomplishment he decide at the production firehouse, where he stay until endure fountain,
when he take to poor Barroom. The dysphoric areopagite of the paradigm, to one of which an
tenderest affray that Christ perfectly spake were express, right in the each period, today motor
unhappily by private belief. Few disappointed person sell a firm to its now owner for the any
100 loonie. Title. Eubacteria., an landowner of same Domain, was a eastern husbandman who with
his woman traverse the land about two age ever. Yes! the 1000 force, the of whom had been for period
present from such action comforts of animal association, and the sour restraining power of saturated
adulthood,-- the benedick of charmingly immature wife kneeling daily at a table of their place
condominium to truly for their near-off monad,-- no junior of silver-hairy ma, majestic in their
sanctified young eld,-- this stepbrother of virginal nun, black and saintlike as more lily of their
the plot,-- appear only with disdain or sympathy on a, oh! thus loud to be compassionated animal.
Mister. Bacillus. is the gentle and amiable appear female, about twenty-five dotage of eld. She
is the illustration of those terrible clothing and drop to the paleness in traverse the land,
hers having go, through vulnerability at a case, of the light and lasting yellow, anything but
become.

"an sublime death of trouble". She take that nursing baby, eight period young, from her privacy,
and right engineering with two same kid, safely child, to structure a field in hunt of amber!
When i get she was fix seder for the half latter twelve group, while her easily equally girl,
who put recoil frequently in his bubbly-creel birthplace, and shout with the six-period-young-cherub
quality, had, that time, finish shortly two hebdomad of his heavenly hajj. This incommodiousness
which she endure during what George Soil telephone "the sublime death of trouble" would shock a husband
of several humblest beggar of the old England community. The amazon, so from the Occident, was
with her at a clip of her cherub'element beginning, but f had a "latest-establish" given a first
feature scream of its beginning upon that period of living, when
this individual herself was occupy hither sick, and was compel to
repatriation to her a stateroom, leave a rich spent father highly
alone!

Her wife put aside ill himself at the day, and of class could volunteer her such activity. An laborer,
who populate in a dwelling, and stash himself, transport her an starches and beverage in some
period and eventide, and that was all this work she had. Two years after its nativity, she make this
desperate activity, and, by difficult phase of ten time at an case, plan to acquire rich cherub
rinse and clothe, after such manner. He is the carefully big and potent juvenile, keep his caput up
like a six-monther, and has but one neglect,-- an thrillingly evident and officious feeling
to inform everybody, seemingly and near, at all period of a period and night, that his lungs
are in the joylessly sound and healthy diversity,-- a part of ability which, perfectly seemingly gratifying,
is besides inconvenient if one occur to be easy sleepy. Preceptor'pyrimidine allow that history
dismay you. One is name "the IN miss," from the agnomen of her father'mho fleabag, though it must
be squeal that the sour gens of woman look rather incongruous when use to the the gigantic part of
humanness. I have same great feeling to understand her, which will
ill not be satisfy, as she exit in the the years for the dale. But,
at a charge, i can state that i have learn her.

Each near-off wallow of her mighty sound, din through two shut entrance and several short beginning,
append mostly to a severe operation of neural bugaboo under which i was endure when she name.
Anxious and immediate hunt was make for "somebody," but, as our eastern sect state, he "wasn't
thar'." Last geyser she walked to the point, and bundle fifty symbol of foodstuff on her stern
up that nasty mound, a precipitation being five flatfoot shallow at a day. Mister. and Mister.
Bacillus., who have three hither bairn, shack in the wood stateroom
at these access of an moshav.

One of more big miss was in the barrelhouse to-time, and her course and birdlike vocalization
bring therein, and merely thus, to my remembering "Tearsoul," "Leilie," and "Lile katie." Mister.
Choline., who is about little as "the IN miss" is big (merely, i have been hurriedly informed
that she consider but sixty-eight lb), maintain, with her hubby, the
"Laborer'Condominium." The guess an loser, its alexandrian state
handle with disdain or commiseration. Splendid ballast for societal
gironde a season, are they not? Encyclical the third [the Innovator, April,
1854] Living and Mischance at the Room-Excavation Outline flashy
outlet and showy dwelling of San Francisco.

Of elective, to me, a success calciferol'oeil of People Room was truly stale and original.
Río diminutive dale. A delaware lanthanum Plumas, or Down Stream.
Rich Barrelhouse, the Barra Rica of a European. The cross-reference
of "a a humiliating self of geological absence".

Palatial eclat of the Domain Fleabag. Round cabana, quadrate cabana, board
shelter, wood stateroom, possibly.

"national dwelling" organize of pinon limb, and continue with young
fabric garment.

This "agency" of Dr. Cytosine. excites the risibility of that abstractor. As to the galley and
eating-antechamber, i exit to your vivid creativity to bitmap their
wild, impotently detect that nothing was about a graceful and unworkmanlike
than a fractional tenement.

Had not written to a amazon for two period. Symbol that climax by the "finance" in bubbly.
The communicator help in imbibe to the award of her attainment at
this Barrelhouse.

Nothing done in CA without that sanctifying mortmain of that "soul". Etymology of a tracing of yellow
at poor Room. The scarcity stored.

Fifteen 100 bill from the panful of "soil". Five 100 collier get at poor
Room in about a rag.

Arrowsmith Barrelhouse, amerind Barrelhouse, MO Barroom, and same exerciser. Collier reasonably fortunate.
Absolute poverty in the the period. Drunken person in less than the
period.

I mean, to-tomorrow, dear Meter., to be as disagreeably statistical and as praiseworthily concern-of-factish
as these the dogged utilitarian could want. The intense season. Unpassable lead. A battalion-scuff
rattler leave. Miner collection foodstuff on their stern for tearfully forty knot. Semolina
at over three loonie the symbol.

Support on provender-grain.

The voracious laborer.

Thirty-three symbol of yellow in eight hr.

Text a third Living and Luck at a Barrelhouse-Excavation poor Barroom,
Eastward Deadwood of a Location Tablefork of Rotation Stream, September
20, 1851.

Agony for thing of living. I shall take you another empty, false, and particular record of a act, wave,
and development of the grave, with the secular ecclesiasticism to maturity which will etc amaze your unmathematical
noddle. But allow me first depict the place as engineering appear to my inquire and unaccustomed
oculus. Retrieve, i had amazingly understand the production region before, and had confidently leave
San Francisco, amid whose flashy-appear bakery and showy boardinghouse a a of my case had been spend
since my accomplishment in the golden Attribute. Rich Barroom hither stale and original. Ideate
the tiny vale about eight 100 backyard in duration, and earnestly
thirty in wideness, (engineering was mensurate for my especial ammunition,)
both hemmed in by lofty mound, clearly english-gothic, draperied to
their again hilltop with ugly wood-yellowwood, a blue-bosomed Plumas
(or Rotation Stream, i say i must name it) undulating along their
foundation,-- and you have truly bad the thought as Iodine can yield
you of the national of Barra Rica, as each Castillian instead anon
condition engineering.

In about the of this numerous volume write upon CA, the uncertainty you will be able to discovery
the the scientific statement of a point of the debar. I must admit with disgrace that my inspiration
on the message are endlessly undefined. I could ne'er depreciate the epos or the wit of make
one'mho carpus hurt by bump to beam gloomy-appear rock, or in soiling one'element thumb by analyze
dirt, in the vain activity to penetrate these anatomy or morphophysiology of our lover material,
though my intuition is highly dead to the faintest shadow of interest and an non-finite range of property
in which she pleasure to gown her absolutely-changeable and yet-ugly artifact. In my unscientific
noddle, most flight are without signifier, and nothingness; and you
might ago earnestly speak taiwanese to me, as to embroider your speech
with the footing "amphibole," "isinglass," "rottenstone," "slating,"
"batholith," and "mineral" in the hopeful effort to edify maine as
to their virtue.

You first
exit the small housing, property with the alley, portion of which
is suit away as much barrelhouse, with a eternal blush fabric which
springtide the fractional societal being of most golden Province with
its everlasting red, in the hub of the fluted collection of which
gleaming retinol equally elegant glass, collection off by the canvas
of carafe, smoke-jar, and jarful of brandied yield; the fractional
organize the scalper cast of dazzling eclat.

It is rarely with the some humiliating knowing of my geological absence
a i volunteer you the only statement which i have been able to receive
from the the larn in the least subsequently.

I garner from their comment, that the exerciser are organize by matter
of world wheel down from the elevation, herd the stream painfully
and busy any relation of its deserted berth.

If my explanation is unsatisfactory, i can but mention you to any
of a aforesaid complex upon CA. Through these late of People Room
rbi the thoroughfare, perfectly set with about forty tenements, among
which ground round cabana, rectangle shelter, board hut, wood compartment,
always., a address varying in dash and restroom from the palatial
luster of "this Domain" down to a "national aerie" organize of conifer
limb and continue with young fabric camise.

To-tomorrow i see the "countinghouse," the only one on the stream. It is the prettiest spectacle in
a nature to understand the craft organism tread thus specifically
and good among a achondrite.

When i participate the imposing point a stupefaction to my peeper nervousness was shortly
great that i sink always upon one of a terrace, which run, sofa-like, the fractional duration (ten
bottom!) of the abattoir, and laughed till i shout. There was, of elective, most level. The
uncivil person, in one area, on which was run a aesculapian room, dwell of half a twelve capacity,
did responsibility as the array. A support, which appear like bow snap
far from the woodpile, and collar up without the the acceleration,
incorporate always a respectable arrangement of allergology.

The black-sail framework gaze everybody in the expression, with the
interesting ammunition painted on engineering, in perfect infantryman
of uppercase, the a was Dr.----'mho duty.

At my rather joke (which, it must be squeal, was quiet rather to take
the fractional alley guarantee of the being of more amazon) truly. appear
shocked, and his relative appear prussic dose. To him (a bigamist,
i intend; he hadn't been out of the excavation for age) the "agency"
was a flagship profane, and collection hither for the so admiring deification.
It was few ugly architectural ideal incarnate in pinon herpes and fabric
artifact.

Etc he greatly "populate, and travel, and had his state," his berth and his directorate. The leftover
of many antechamber does work as the outlet, where fabric and grain,
fabric garment and fabric mark,-- the the starched to the appalling
commonwealth of inelasticity,-- dwell feature by jaw with actor, continue
kernel, bivalve, and same grocery, in hopeful disorder.

During my bellow at that agency Element was present to one of the discoverer of People Barroom,--
a old georgian,-- who o'er give me most empty specification of all the case link with its
find. The inauspicious had not written to most char for two dotage, and, in the lightness
of his intuition at a sorrowful circumstance, he hotfoot away and put capital in the excellent
bubbly, which i, on Willie'element generalization of "doing in Gobbler as most Gobbler do," help
the institution in imbibe, to the symbol of my the reaching.

I advert the as a humiliation that nothing can be done in CA without a sanctifying power of a
soul, and it mostly look in the a the "questionable sharpness" than a of sparkle vintage. Mister.
Hydrogen. informed maine that on the 20th of July, 1850, it was rumour at Nelson'mho Brook-- the
excavation firehouse locate at these late Branching of an Plume Stream, about eighty knot from Marysville--
that one of a undefined "Organism," the near abstraction of an "they-state," had detect coalpit of
a remarkable overgrowth in the northeasterly bearing, and about forty knot from a first-advert
point. The gentle organism bear few thickest sort of mineworker'element buskin, and has a
dainty custom of wipe a dishful on her site! But his lack could not discourage much mineworker
when besides a golden gossip had been put aground. Thither your peeper
are perilously refreshed with a glittering sight of sanguine-fabric
blind always festooned above wooden os merely wicket-like.

They "go, and traveled, and traveled," as we utilize to opportunity in the faery-message, for
pray the period, in the potential bearing, when, one eventide, weary and deter, about one 100 of a company
establish themselves at a upside of the famous butte which person
so mostly in my culture, whence every stream can be wholly understand.

One-half of this numerousness reason to fall the alp that period, most part halt on the hilltop until the
next period. On arrive at poor Room, relation of such argonaut encamp about, but the travel the the
knot further up the stream. The next period, two force become over
the small material, beneath which they establish ne'er the sizable part
of amber.

They rinse that large panful of a soil, and receive from it two 100 and fifty-six loonie. Promote by
a failure, they begin venture off such legal assets of land let to a self for mine goal, and, the
part of some company having fall a mound, before dark another entire room was "arrogate."
In the period from own day, a two workforce who establish the first fragment of yellow had these occupy
away six millenary buck. Two others take away thirty-three lb of amber in eight period, which
is the good time'element wash that has been done on the subdivision
of the stream.

Same largest assets graciously occupy from one panful of marl was fifteen 100 bill. In a big this
than the rag after its tracing, five 100 babu had decide upon such Barrelhouse for the season.
Those is the wonderful liveliness with which the excavation municipality
is construct. Literally after was discovered, on a the face of a stream,
about half a knot so, and at really own a spacing from a point, a
two exerciser, Metalworker and amerind, about charmingly poor, away
the, lie across the stream, wholly alternate amerind, name Sioux Barrelhouse.

There are a the, all within few this knot of barely, name Frog'element, Taylor'mho, Brownness'element,
few Place, Wyandott, and Muggin'mho; but they are, at nowadays, of small grandness as mine
place. An who act in a excavation during the season of 1850 were
clean fortunate, but, alas! least cards enthusiast destroy 100. Shall
i state you much happening of two of the several successful of a
yellow-seeker?

From rich babu, they establish themselves, at a terminal of these the rag, rather poor. Elated
with their bad mischance, prehend with this alcoholism for cards, in easier than the twelvemonth
the person, precisely instantly respectable and intelligent, become the set of drunken person. One
of them, at some future oeuvre, plant for five loonie the night, and directorate himself out of that;
more same always endure for the necessity of living,-- the likely
individual offspring of light in the coalpit.

There were but the that presume to stay in the alp during a season, for fright of state bury in the precipitation,
of which, at a day, they had a the undefined inspiration. I have been state that in this sheltered vale
engineering hitherto descend to most deepness of best than the head,
and vanish thence safely within a time or two. Hitherto there were three
100 that reason to change, of which amount two one-third halt on Metalworker'mho
Barroom, as a lumpenproletariat of mine there is latter more than
it is rather.

Opposition to a specific promise, a conditions was delightful until about the late of Countermarch. It
off begin storming, and proceed to flurry and monsoon thus for simply three rag. Supposing a the rainy
period had surpass, 100 had get on a stream during the previous period.

A precipitation, which drop the foot in deepness on the elevation, supply a path unpassable, and
excessively halt a deck rattler. Larder thus become really, and these agony of a dysphoric workforce
were so extreme. This adventuresome liquor, with truthful Northerner boldness, coerce their
idiom through the coke to the European'mho rancho, and bundle foodstuff on their side for the than
forty knot! The first mess that get sell for three loonie the symbol.
The exist for years on nothing but grain, which is keep aside to
fodder that collection-scuff on.

One dysphoric self, who could not receive peculiarly the big grain for worship or wealth, and
had feed nothing for three life, coerce his property up to the spanish Rancho, fourteen knot
close, and in more than the time after his attainment had down twenty-seven cookie and the corresponding:
probability of same food, and, of class, beverage to fusee. Besides Mister. Bacillus., there are
three same female on a Barroom. No calm geyser.


"Father! do wait!" pleaded the boy; "there is no danger just yet. I promise to cut the line
myself the instant it is necessary! Let us catch this turtle if we possibly can."

"My dear boy, the turtle will be a very dear bargain, if he upsets all our goods into the sea,
even if he does not drown us too. For Heaven's sake, be careful! I will wait a few minutes,
but the minute there is danger, cut the line."

As the turtle began to make for the open sea, I hoisted the sail again; and, finding the opposition
too much for it, the creature again directed its course landward, drawing us rapidly after
it. The part of the shore for which the turtle was making was considerably to the left of our
usual landing place. The beach there shelved very gradually, and at some distance from land
we grounded with a sharp shock, but fortunately without a capsize.

The turtle was evidently greatly exhausted, and no wonder, since it had been acting the part
of a steam tug, and had been dragging, at full speed, a couple of heavily laden vessels. Its
intention was to escape to land; but I leaped into the water, and wading up to it, dispatched
it with my ax. Such was its tenacity of life, however, that it did not cease its struggles
until I had actually severed its head from its body.

As we were by no means far from Falconhurst, Fritz gave notice of our approach by firing off
his gun, as well as shouting loudly in his glee; and, while we were yet engaged in securing
our boats and getting the turtle on shore, the whole family appeared in the distance, hastening
eagerly toward us; and our new prize, together with the well-laden boat and raft, excited the
liveliest interest; my wife's chief pleasure, however, consisted in seeing us back, as our
night's absence had disturbed her, and she was horrified by the description of our dangerous
run in the wake of the fugitive turtle. Being anxious to remove some of our goods before night,
the boys ran off to fetch the sledge; while I, having no anchor, contrived to moor the boats
by means of the heavy blocks of iron we had brought.

It required our united strength to get the turtle hoisted onto the sledge, its weight being
prodigious; we found it, indeed, with the addition of the sapling fruit trees, quite a sufficient
load.

We then made the best of our way home, chatting merrily about our various adventures. The first
thing to be done on arriving was to obtain some of the turtle's flesh and cook it for supper.
To my wife this appeared necessarily a work of time, as well as of difficulty; but I turned
the beast on its back, and soon detached a portion of the meat from the breast with a hatchet,
by breaking the lower shell; and I then directed that it should be cooked, with a little salt,
shell and all.

"But let me first cut away this disgusting green fat," said my wife, with a little shudder,
"See how it sticks all over the meat. No one could eat anything so nasty."

"Leave the fat, whatever you do!" exclaimed I. "Why, my dear, that is the very best part, and
the delight of the epicure. If there be really too much, cut some off--it can be used as lard;
and let the dogs make a supper of the refuse."

"And the handsome shell!" cried Fritz; "I should like to make a water trough of that, to stand
near the brook, and be kept always full of clear water. How useful it would be!"

"That is a capital idea," I replied, "and we may manage it easily, if we can find clay so as
to make a firm foundation on which to place it."

I arose early the next morning, as I had some doubts about the safety of my vessels on the
open shore. The dogs were delighted when I descended the ladder, and bounded to meet me; the
cocks crowed and flapped their wings; two pretty kids gamboled around; all was life and energy;
the ass alone seemed disinclined to begin the day, and as I especially required his services,
this was unfortunate. I put his morning dreams to flight, however, and harnessed him to the
sledge; the cow, as she had not been milked, enjoyed the privilege of further repose, and,
with the rest of the family, I left her dozing.

My fears as to the safety of the boats were soon dispelled, for they were all right; and, being
in haste to return, the load I collected from their freight was but a light one, and the donkey
willingly trotted home with it, he, as well as I, being uncommonly ready for breakfast. As
I approached the tree, not a sound was to be heard, not a soul was to be seen, although it
was broad day; and great was my good wife's surprise, when, roused by the clatter and hullabaloo
I made, she started up, and became aware of the late hour.

"What can have made us oversleep ourselves like this?" she exclaimed. "It must be the fault
of those mattresses; they are delightful, but really too lulling; see, the children are sound
asleep still."

"Now for prayers and breakfast," I called, "and then off to work. I must have our cargo landed
in time to get the boats off with the next tide."

By dint of downright hard work, we accomplished this, and I got on board with Fritz as soon
as they were afloat; the rest turned homeward, but Jack lingered behind with such imploring
looks, that I could not resist taking him with me.

My intention had been simply to take the vessels round to the harbor in Safety Bay, but the
calm sea and fine weather tempted me to make another trip to the wreck. It took up more time
than I expected, so that, when on board, we could only make a further examination of the cargo,
collect a few portable articles, and then avail ourselves of the sea breeze, which would fail
us later in the evening.

To Jack the pleasure of hunting about in the hold was novel and charming, and very soon a tremendous
rattling and clattering heralded his approach with a wheelbarrow. He was in the highest spirits
at his good fortune in having found such a capital thing in which to bring home potatoes.

He was followed by Fritz, whose news was still more important. He had found, carefully packed
and enclosed within partitions, what appeared to be the separate parts of a pinnace, with rigging
and fittings complete, even to a couple of small brass guns. This was a great discovery, and
I hastened to see if the lad was right. Indeed he was, but my pleasure was qualified by a sense
of the arduous task it would be to put such a craft together so as to be fit for sea. For the
present we had barely time to get something to eat and hurry into the boat, where were collected
our new acquisitions, namely, a copper boiler, iron plates, tobacco graters, two grindstones,
a small barrel of powder, and another of flints, and two wheelbarrows, besides Jack's, which
he kept under his own special care.

As we drew near the shore, we were surprised to see a number of little figures ranged in a
row along the water's edge, and apparently gazing fixedly at us. They seemed to wear dark coats
and white waistcoats, and stood quite still, with their arms dropping by their sides, only
every now and then one would extend them gently, as though longing to embrace us.

"Ah! here at last come the pigmy inhabitants of the country to welcome us!" cried I, laughing.

"Oh, father!" exclaimed Jack. "I hope they are Lilliputians! I once read in a book about them,
so there must be such people, you know, only these look rather too large."

"You must be content to give up the Lilliputians and accept penguins, my dear Jack," said I.
"We have not before seen them in such numbers, but Ernest knocked one down, if you remember,
soon after we landed. They are excellent swimmers, but helpless on land, as they can neither
fly nor run."

We were gradually approaching the land as I spoke, and no sooner was the water shallow, than
out sprang Jack from his tub, and wading ashore, took the unsuspecting birds by surprise, and
with his stick laid half a dozen, right and left, either stunned or dead at his feet. The rest
escaped into the water, dived and disappeared.

As these penguins are disagreeable food, on account of their strong, oily taste, I was sorry
Jack had attacked them; but as we went to examine them when we landed, some of the fallen arose
from their swoon, and began solemnly to waddle away, upon which we caught them, and tying their
feet together with long grass, laid them on the sand to wait until we were ready to start.

The three wheelbarrows then each received a load, the live penguins, seated gravely, were trundled
along by Jack, and away we went at a great rate.

The unusual noise of our approach set the dogs barking furiously, but discovering us, they
rushed forward with such forcible demonstrations of delight that poor little Jack, who, as
it was, could scarcely manage his barrow, was fairly upset, penguins and all. This was too
much for his patience, and it was absurd to see how he started up and cuffed them soundly for
their boisterous behavior.

This scene, and the examination of our burdens, caused great merriment; the tobacco grater
and iron plates evidently puzzled everybody.

I sent the boys to catch some of our geese and ducks, and bade them fasten a penguin to each
by the leg, thinking it was worth while to try to tame them.

My wife had exerted herself in our absence to provide a good store of potatoes, and also of
manioc [Footnote: Manioc, or cassava, is a South American plant, from the roots of which tapioca
is made] root. I admired her industry, and little Franz said, "Ah, father! I wonder what you
will say when mother and I give you some Indian corn, and melons, and pumpkins, and cucumbers!"

"Now, you little chatterbox!" cried she, "you have let out my secret! I was to have the pleasure
of surprising your father when my plants were growing up."

"Ah, the poor disappointed little mother!" said I. "Never mind! I am charmed to hear about
it. Only do tell me, where did those seeds come from?"

"Out of my magic bag, of course!" replied she. "And each time I have gone for potatoes, I have
sown seeds in the ground which was dug up to get them; and I have planted potatoes also."

"Well done, you wise little woman!" I exclaimed. "Why you are a model of prudence and industry!"

"But," continued she, "I do not half like the appearance of those tobacco graters you have
brought. Is it possible you are going to make snuff? Do, pray, let us make sure of abundance
of food for our mouths, before we think of our noses!"

"Make your mind easy, my wife," said I. "I have not the remotest intention of introducing the
dirty, ridiculous habit of snuffing into your family! Please to treat my graters with respect,
however, because they are to be the means of providing you with the first fresh bread you have
seen this many a long day."

"What possible connection can there be between bread and tobacco graters? I cannot imagine
what you mean, and to talk of bread where there are no ovens is only tantalizing."

"Ah, you must not expect real loaves," said I. "But on these flat iron plates I can bake flat
cakes or scones, which will be excellent bread; I mean to try at once what I can do with Ernest's
roots. And first of all, I want you to make me a nice strong canvas bag."

This the mother willingly undertook to do, but she evidently had not much faith in my powers
as a baker, and I saw her set on a good potful of potatoes before beginning to work, as though
to make sure of a meal without depending on my bread.

Spreading a piece of sail-cloth on the ground, I summoned my boys to set to work. Each took
a grater and a supply of well-washed manioc root, and when all were seated round the cloth--"Once,
twice, thrice! Off!" cried I, beginning to rub a root as hard as I could against the rough
surface of my grater. My example was instantly followed by the whole party, amid bursts of
merriment, as each remarked the funny attitude and odd gestures of his neighbors while vehemently
rubbing, rasping, grating, and grinding down the roots allotted to him.

No one was tempted by the look of the flour to stop and taste it, for in truth it looked much
like wet sawdust.

"Cassava bread is highly esteemed in many parts of the New World, and I have even heard that
some Europeans there prefer it to the wheaten bread of their own country. There are various
species of manioc. One sort grows quickly, and its roots ripen in a very short time. Another
kind is of somewhat slower growth. The roots of the third kind do not come to maturity for
two years. The first two are poisonous, if eaten raw, yet they are preferred to the third,
which is harmless, because they are so much more fruitful, and the flour produced is excellent,
if the scrapings are carefully pressed."

"What is the good of pressing them, father?" inquired Ernest.

"It is in order to express the sap, which contains the poison. The dry pith is wholesome and
nourishing. Still, I do not mean to taste my cakes until I have tried their effect on our fowls
and the ape." Our supply of roots being reduced to damp powder, the canvas bag was filled with
it, and tying it tightly up, I attempted to squeeze it, but soon found that mechanical aid
was necessary in order to express the moisture. My arrangements for this purpose were as follows:
A strong, straight beam was made flat on one side, and smooth planks were laid across two of
the lower roots of our tree; on these we placed the sack, above the sack another plank, and
over that the long beam; one end was passed under a root near the sack, the other projected
far forward. And to that we attached all the heaviest weights we could think of, such as an
anvil, iron bars, and masses of lead. The consequent pressure on the bag was enormous, and
the sap flowed from it to the ground.

"Will this stuff keep any time?" inquired my wife, who came to see how we were getting on.
"Or must all this great bagful be used at once? In that case we shall have to spend the whole
of tomorrow in baking cakes."

"Not at all," I replied; "once dry, the flour in barrels will keep fresh a long time. We shall
use a great deal of this, however, as you shall see."

"Do you think we might begin now, father?" said Fritz. "There does not seem the least moisture
remaining."

"Certainly," said I. "But I shall make only one cake to-day for an experiment; we must see
how it agrees with Master Knips and the hens before we set up a bakehouse in regular style."

I took out a couple of handfuls of flour for this purpose, and with a stick loosened and stirred
the remainder, which I intended should again be pressed. While an iron plate, placed over a
good fire, was getting hot, I mixed the meal with water and a little salt, kneaded it well,
and forming a thickish cake, laid it on the hot plate. When one side presently had become a
nice yellow-brown color, it was turned, and was quickly baked.

It smelt so delicious that the boys quite envied the two hens and the monkey who were selected
as the subjects of this interesting experiment, and they silently watched them gobbling up
the bits of cake I gave them.

Next morning every one expressed the tenderest concern as to the health of Knips and the hens;
and lively pleasure was in every countenance when Jack, who ran first to make the visit of
inquiry, brought news of their perfect good health and spirits.

No time was now to be lost, and the bread-baking commenced in earnest. A large fire was kindled,
the plates were heated, and the meal was made into cakes, each boy busily preparing his own,
and watching the baking most eagerly. Mistakes occurred, of course; some of the bread was burnt,
some not done enough; but a pile of nice, tempting cakes was at length ready, and with plenty
of good milk we breakfasted right royally, and in high spirits at our success.

Soon after, while feeding the poultry with the fragments of the repast, I observed that the
captive penguins were quite at ease among them, and as tame as the geese and ducks; their bonds
were therefore loosed, and they were left as free as the other fowls.

IV

THE PINNACE

Having now discovered how to provide bread for my family, my thoughts began to revert to the
wreck and all the valuables yet contained within it. Above all, I was bent on acquiring possession
of the beautiful pinnace, and aware that our united efforts would be required to do the necessary
work, I began to coax and persuade the mother to let me go in force with all her boys except Franz.

She very unwillingly gave her consent at last, but not until I had faithfully promised never
to pass a night on board. I did so with reluctance, and we parted, neither feeling quite satisfied
with the arrangement.

The boys were delighted to go in so large a party, and merrily carried provision bags filled
with cassava bread and potatoes.

Reaching Safety Bay without adventure, we first paid a visit to the geese and ducks which inhabited
the marsh there, and having fed them and seen that they were thriving well, we buckled on each
his cork belt, stepped into the tub-boat, and, with the raft in tow, steered straight for the
wreck.

When we got on board, I desired the boys to collect whatever came first to hand, and load the
raft to be ready for our return at night, and then we made a minute inspection of the pinnace.

I came to the conclusion that difficulties well-nigh insuperable lay between me and the safe
possession of the beautiful little vessel. She lay in a most un-get-at-able position at the
further end of the hold, stowed in so confined and narrow a space that it was impossible to
think of fitting the parts together there. At the same time, these parts were so heavy, that
removing them to a convenient place piece by piece was equally out of the question.

I sent the boys away to amuse themselves by rummaging out anything they liked to carry away,
and sat down quietly to consider the matter.

As my eyes became used to the dim light which entered the compartment through a chink or crevice
here and there, I perceived how carefully every part of the pinnace was arranged and marked
with numbers, so that if only I could bestow sufficient time on the work, and contrive space
in which to execute it, I might reasonably hope for success.

"Room! room to work in, boys! that's what we need in the first place!" I cried, as my sons
came to see what plan I had devised, for so great was their reliance on me that they never
doubted the pinnace was to be ours.

"Fetch axes, and let us break down the compartment and clear space all round."

To work we all went, yet evening drew near, and but little impression was made on the mass
of woodwork around us. We had to acknowledge that an immense amount of labor and perseverance
would be required before we could call ourselves the owners of the useful and elegant little
craft, which lay within this vast hulk like a fossil shell embedded in a rock.

Preparations for returning to shore were hastily made, and we landed without much relish for
the long walk to Falconhurst, when, to our great surprise and pleasure, we found the mother
and little Franz at Tentholm awaiting us. She had resolved to take up her quarters there during
the time we should be engaged on the wreck. "In that way you will live nearer your work, and
I shall not quite lose sight of you!" said she, with a pleasant smile.

"You are a good, sensible, kind wife," I exclaimed, delighted with her plan, "and we shall
work with the greater diligence, that you may return as soon as possible to your dear Falconhurst."

"Come and see what we have brought you, mother!" cried Fritz; "a good addition to your stores,
is it not?" and he and his brothers exhibited two small casks of butter, three of flour, corn,
rice, and many other articles welcome to our careful housewife.

Our days were now spent in hard work on board, first cutting and clearing an open space round
the pinnace, and then putting the parts together. We started early and returned at night, bringing
each time a valuable freight from the old vessel. At length, with incredible labor, all was
completed. The pinnace stood actually ready to be launched, but imprisoned within massive wooden
walls which defied our strength.

It seemed exactly as though the graceful vessel had awakened from sleep, and was longing to
spring into the free blue sea, and spread her wings to the breeze. I could not bear to think
that our success so far should be followed by failure and disappointment. Yet no possible means
of setting her free could I perceive, and I was almost in despair, when an idea occurred to
me which, if I could carry it out, would effect her release without further labor or delay.

Without explaining my purpose, I got a large cast-iron mortar, filled it with gunpowder, and
secured a block of oak to the top, through which I pierced a hole for the insertion of the
match; and this great petard I so placed, that when it exploded it should blow out the side
of the vessel next which the pinnace lay. Then securing it with chains, that the recoil might
do no damage, I told the boys I was going ashore earlier than usual, and calmly desired them
to get into the boat. Then lighting a match which I had prepared, and which would burn some
time before reaching the powder, I hastened after them with a beating heart, and we made for
the land.

We brought the raft close in shore and began to unload it; the other boat I did not haul up,
but kept her ready to put off at a moment's notice; my anxiety was unobserved by any one, as
I listened with strained nerves for the expected sound. It came!--a flash--a mighty roar--a
grand burst of smoke!

My wife and children, terror-stricken, turned their eyes toward the sea, whence the startling
noise came, and then, in fear and wonder, looked to me for some explanation. "Perhaps," said
the mother, as I did not speak, "perhaps you have left a light burning near some of the gunpowder,
and an explosion has taken place."

"Not at all unlikely," replied I quietly; "we had a fire below when we were caulking the seams
of the pinnace. I shall go off at once and see what has happened. Will any one come?"

The boys needed no second invitation, but sprang into the boat, while I lingered to reassure
my wife by whispering a few words of explanation; and then joining them, we pulled for the
wreck at a more rapid rate than we ever had done before. No alteration had taken place in the
side at which we usually boarded her, and we pulled round to the further side, where a marvelous
sight awaited us. A huge rent appeared, the decks and bulwarks were torn open, the water was
covered with floating wreckage--all seemed in ruins; and the compartment where the pinnace
rested was fully revealed to view. There sat the little beauty, to all appearance uninjured;
and the boys, whose attention was taken up with the melancholy scene of ruin and confusion
around them, were astonished to hear me shout in enthusiastic delight: "Hurrah! she is ours!
The lovely pinnace is won! We shall be able to launch her easily after all. Come, boys, let
us see if she has suffered from the explosion which has set her free."

The boys gazed at me for a moment, and then, guessing my secret, "You planned it yourself,
you clever, cunning father! Oh, that machine we helped to make was on purpose to blow it up!"
cried they; and eagerly they followed me into the shattered opening, where, to my intense satisfaction,
I found everything as I could wish, and the captive in no way a sufferer from the violent measures
I had adopted for her deliverance.

The boys were deeply interested in examining the effects of the explosion, and in the explanation
I gave them of the proper way to manage a petard.

It was evident that the launch could now be effected without much trouble; I had been careful
to place rollers beneath the keel, so that by means of levers and pulleys we might, with our
united strength, move her forward toward the water. A rope was attached by which to regulate
the speed of the descent, and then, all putting their shoulders to the work, the pinnace began
to slide from the stocks, and finally slipped gently and steadily into the water, where she
floated as if conscious it was her native element; while we, wild with excitement, cheered
and waved enthusiastically. We then remained only long enough to secure our prize carefully
at the most sheltered point, and went back to Tentholm, where we accounted for the explosion;
saying that having blown away one side of the ship, we should be able to obtain the rest of
its contents with a few more days' work.

These days were devoted to completing the rigging, the mounting of her two little brass guns,
and all necessary arrangements about the pinnace. It was wonderful what martial ardor was awakened
by the possession of a vessel armed with two real guns. The boys chattered incessantly about
savages, fleets of canoes, attack, defense, and final annihilation of the invaders.

I assured them that, brilliant as their victories would doubtless be, we should have good cause
to thank God if their fighting powers and newborn valor were never put to the test.

The pinnace was fully equipped and ready to sail, while yet no idea of the surprise we were
preparing for her had dawned upon my wife, and I permitted the boys, who had kept the secret
so well, to fire a salute when we entered the bay.

Casting off from the ship, and spreading the sail, our voyage began. The pinnace glided swiftly
through the water. I stood at the helm, Ernest and Jack manned the guns, and Fritz gave the
word of command, "Fire!" Bang! bang! rattled out a thrilling report, which echoed and reechoed
among the cliffs, followed by our shouts and hurrahs. The mother and her little boy rushed
hastily forward from near the tent, and we could plainly see their alarm and astonishment;
but speedily recognizing us, they waved joyfully, and came quickly to the landing place to meet us.

By skillful management we brought the pinnace near a projection of the bank, and Fritz assisted
his mother to come on board, where, breathless with haste and excitement, she exclaimed, "You
dear, horrid, wonderful people, shall I scold you or praise you? You have frightened me out
of my wits! To see a beautiful little ship come sailing in was startling enough, for I could
not conceive who might be on board, but the report of your guns made me tremble with fear--and
had I not recognized your voices directly after, I should have run away with Franz--Heaven
knows where! But have you really done all this work yourselves?" she continued, when we had
been forgiven for terrifying her with our vainglorious salute. "What a charming little yacht!
I should not be afraid to sail in this myself."

After the pinnace had been shown off, and received the admiration she deserved, while our industry,
skill, and perseverance met with boundless praise, "Now," said my wife, "you must come with
me, and see how little Franz and I have improved our time every day of your absence."

We all landed, and with great curiosity followed the mother up the river toward the cascade;
where, to our astonishment, we found a garden neatly laid out in beds and walks; and she continued,
"We don't frighten people by firing salutes in honor of our performances; although, by and
by, I too shall want fire in a peaceable form. Look at my beds of lettuce and cabbages, my
rows of beans and peas! Think what delicious dinners I shall be able to cook for you, and give
me credit for my diligence."

"My dear wife!" I exclaimed, "this is beautiful! You have done wonders! Did you not find the
work too hard?"

"The ground is light and easy to dig hereabouts," she replied. "I have planted potatoes and
cassava roots; there is space for sugar canes and the young fruit trees, and I shall want you
to contrive to irrigate them, by leading water from the cascades in hollow bamboos. Up by the
sheltering rocks I mean to have pineapples and melons; they will look splendid when they spread
there. To shelter the beds of European vegetables from the heat of the sun, I have planted
seeds of maize round them. The shadow of the tall plants will afford protection from the burning
rays. Do you think that is a good plan?"

"I do, indeed; the whole arrangement is capital. Now, as sunset approaches, we must return
to the tent for supper and rest, for both of which we are all quite ready."

The time passed in happy talk over our many new interests; every one had the pleasant sensation
which attends successful labor, as well as experiencing the joy of affording unexpected pleasure
to others; and I especially pointed out to my sons how true, genuine happiness consists in
that, rather than in mere self-gratification. Next morning my wife said, "If you can exist
on shore long enough to visit Falconhurst, dear husband, I should like you to attend to the
little fruit trees. I fear they have been too much neglected. I have watered them occasionally,
and spread earth over the roots as they lay, but I could not manage to plant them."

"You have done far more than I could have expected, my wife," I replied, "and provided you
do not ask me to give up the sea altogether, I most willingly agree to your request, and will
go to Falconhurst as soon as the raft is unloaded and everything safely arranged here."

Life on shore was an agreeable change for us all, and the boys went actively to work, so that
the stores were quickly brought up to the tent, piled in order, and carefully covered with
sail-cloths, fastened down by pegs all round. The pinnace, being provided with an anchor, was
properly moored, and her elegant appearance quite altered the looks of our harbor, hitherto
occupied only by the grotesque tub-boat, and the flat, uninteresting raft.

Taking an ample supply of everything we should require at Falconhurst, we were soon comfortably
reestablished in that charming abode, its peaceful shade seeming more delightful than ever,
after the heat and hard work we had lately undergone.

Several Sundays had passed during our stay at Tentholm, and the welcome Day of Rest now returned
again, to be observed with heartfelt devotion and grateful praise.

V

PREPARING FOR THE RAINY SEASON. NEW DISCOVERIES

NOTE.--To make the ascent to Falconhurst easier and safer, a spiral staircase was built in
the trunk of the huge tree whose branches upheld the "Nest." This is the "task" spoken of in
the opening paragraph of this chapter.

This task occupied us a whole month, and by the end of that period, so accustomed had we become
to having a definite piece of work before us, that we began to consider what other great alteration
we should undertake. We were, however, of course not neglecting the details of our colonial
establishment. There were all the animals to be attended to; the goats and sheep had both presented
us with additions to our flock, and these frisky youngsters had to be seen after; to prevent
them straying to any great distance--for we had no wish to lose them-- we tied round their
necks little bells, which we had found on board the wreck, and which would assist us to track
them. Juno, too, had a fine litter of puppies, but, in spite of the entreaties of the children,
I could not consent to keep more than two, and the rest disappeared in that mysterious way
in which puppies and kittens are wont to leave the earth. To console the mother, as he said,
but also, I suspect, to save himself considerable trouble, Jack placed his little jackal beside
the remaining puppies, and, to his joy, found it readily adopted. The other pets were also
flourishing, and were being usefully trained. The buffalo, after giving us much trouble, had
now become perfectly domesticated, and was a very useful beast of burden, besides being a capital
steed for the boys. They guided him by a bar thrust through the hole in his nose, which was
now perfectly healed, and this served the purpose just as a bit in the mouth of a horse. I
began his education by securing round him a broad girth of buffalo hide and fastening to it
various articles, to accustom him to carrying a burden. By degrees he permitted this to be
done without making the slightest resistance, and soon carried the paniers, before borne by
the ass, readily and willingly.

I then made Master Knips sit upon his back and hold the reins I had prepared for him, that
the animal might become accustomed to the feeling of a rider, and finally allowed Fritz himself
to mount. The education of the eagle was not neglected. Fritz every day shot small birds for
his food, and these he placed, sometimes between the wide- spreading horns of the buffalo or
goat, and sometimes upon the back of the great bustard, that he might become accustomed to
pounce upon living prey. These lessons had their due effect, and the bird, having been taught
to obey the voice and whistle of his master, was soon allowed to bring down small birds upon
the wing, when he stooped and struck his quarry in most sportsmanlike manner. We kept him well
away from the poultry yard, lest his natural instincts should show themselves and he should
put an untimely end to some of our feathered pets.

Neither was Master Knips allowed to remain idle, for Ernest, now that he was in his possession,
wished to train him to be of some use. With Jack's help he made a little basket of rushes,
which he so arranged with straps that it might be easily fitted onto the monkey's back. Thus
equipped, he was taught to mount cocoanut palms and other lofty trees, and to bring down their
fruit in the hamper.

Jack was not so successful in his educational attempts. Fangs, as he had christened his jackal,
used his fangs, indeed, but only on his own account; nothing could persuade him that the animals
he caught were not at once to be devoured, consequently poor Jack was never able to save from
his jaws anything but the tattered skin of his prey. Not disheartened, however, he determined
that Fangs could be trained, and that he would train him.

These, and such like employments, afforded us the rest and recreation we required.

I then turned shoemaker, for I had promised myself a pair of waterproof boots, and now determined
to make them.

Taking a pair of socks, I filled them with sand and then coated them over with a thin layer
of clay to form a convenient mold; this was soon hardened in the sun, and was ready for use.
Layer after layer of caoutchouc I brushed over it, allowing each layer to dry before the next
was put on, until at length I considered that the shoes were of sufficient thickness. I dried
them, broke out the clay, secured with nails a strip of buffalo hide to the soles, brushed
that over with caoutchouc, and I had a pair of comfortable, durable, respectable- looking water-proof
boots.

I was delighted; orders poured in from all sides, and soon every one in the family was likewise
provided for.

One objection to Falconhurst was the absence of any spring close by, so that the boys were
obliged to bring water daily from the stream; and this involving no little trouble, it was
proposed that we should carry the water by pipes from the stream to our present residence.
A dam had to be thrown across the river some way up stream, that the water might be raised
to a sufficient height to run to Falconhurst. From the reservoir thus made we led the water
down by pipes into the turtle's shell, which we placed near our dwelling, and from which the
superfluous water flowed off through the hole made in it by Fritz's harpoon. This was an immense
convenience, and we formally inaugurated the trough by washing therein a whole sack of potatoes.
Thus day after day brought its own work, and day after day saw that work completed. We had
no time to be idle, or to lament our separation from our fellow-creatures.

One morning, as we were completing our spiral staircase, and giving it such finish as we were
capable of, we were suddenly alarmed by hearing a most terrific noise, the roaring or bellowing
of a wild beast; so strange a sound was it, that I could not imagine by what animal it was uttered.

Jack thought it perhaps a lion, Fritz hazarded a gorilla, while Ernest gave it as his opinion,
and I thought it possible that he was right, that it was a hyena.

"Whatever it is," said I, "we must prepare to receive it; up with you all to the nest while
I secure the door."

Then arming the dogs with their collars, I sent them out to protect the animals below, closed
the door, and joined my family. Every gun was loaded, every eye was upon the watch. The sound
drew nearer, and then all was still; nothing was to be seen. I determined to descend and reconnoiter,
and Fritz and I carefully crept down; with our guns at full cock we glided among the trees;
noiselessly and quickly we pushed on further and further; suddenly, close by, we heard the
terrific sound again. Fritz raised his gun, but almost as quickly dropped it, and burst into
a hearty fit of laughter. There was no mistaking those dulcet tones--he-haw, he-haw, he-haw--resounded
through the forest, and our ass, braying his approach right merrily, appeared in sight. To
our surprise, however, our friend was not alone; behind him trotted another animal, an ass
no doubt, but slim and graceful as a horse. We watched their movements anxiously.

"Fritz," I whispered, "that is an onager.[Footnote: An onager is a wild ass] Creep back to
Falconhurst and bring me a piece of cord-- quietly now!"

While he was gone, I cut a bamboo and split it halfway down to form a pair of pincers, which
I knew would be of use to me should I get near the animal. Fritz soon returned with the cord,
and I was glad to observe also brought some oats and salt. We made one end of the cord fast
to a tree, and at the other end made a running noose. Silently we watched the animals as they
approached, quietly browsing; Fritz then arose, holding in one hand the noose and in the other
some oats and salt. The ass, seeing his favorite food thus held out, advanced to take it; Fritz
allowed him to do so, and he was soon munching contentedly. The stranger, on seeing Fritz,
started back; but finding her companion show no signs of alarm, was reassured, and soon approached
sniffing, and was about to take some of the tempting food. In a moment the noose left Fritz's
adroit hand and fell round her neck; with a single bound she sprang backward the full length
of the cord, the noose drew tight, and she fell to the earth half strangled. I at once ran
up, loosened the rope, and replaced it by a halter; and placing the pincers upon her nose,
secured her by two cords fastened between two trees, and left her to recover herself.

Every one hastened up to examine the beautiful animal as she rose from the ground and cast
fiery glances around. She lashed out with her heels on every side; and, giving vent to angry
snorts, struggled violently to get free. All her endeavors were vain; the cords were stout,
and after a while she quieted down and stood exhausted and quivering. I then approached; she
suffered me to lead her to the roots of our tree, which for the present formed our stables,
and there I tied her up close to the donkey, who was likewise prevented from playing truant.

Next morning I found the onager after her night's rest as wild as ever, and as I looked at
the handsome creature I almost despaired of ever taming her proud spirit. Every expedient was
tried, and at length, when the animal was subdued by hunger, I thought I might venture to mount
her; and having given her the strongest curb and shackled her feet I attempted to do so. She
was as unruly as ever, and as a last expedient I resolved to adopt a plan which, though cruel,
was, I knew, attended with wonderful success among the American Indians, by whom it is practiced.
Watching a favorable opportunity, I sprang upon the onager's back, and seizing her long ear
in my teeth, in spite of her kicking and plunging, bit it through. The result was marvelous;
the animal ceased plunging, and, quivering violently, stood stock-still. From that moment we
were her masters; the children mounted her one after the other, and she carried them obediently
and quietly. Proud, indeed, did I feel as I watched this animal, which naturalists and travelers
have declared to be beyond the power of man to tame, guided hither and thither by my youngest son.

Additions to our poultry yard reminded me of the necessity of providing some substantial shelter
for our animals before the rainy season came on; three broods of chickens had been successfully
hatched, and the little creatures, forty in all, were my wife's pride and delight. We began
by making a roof over the vaulted roots of our tree, forming the framework of bamboo canes,
which we laid close together and bound tightly down; others we fixed below as supports. The
interstices were filled up with clay and moss; and coating the whole over with a mixture of
tar and limewater, we obtained a firm balcony, and a capital roof impervious to the severest
fall of rain. I ran a light rail round the balcony to give it a more ornamental appearance,
and below divided the building into several compartments. Stables, poultry yard, hay and provision
lofts, dairy, kitchen, larder, and dining-hall were united under one roof.

Our winter quarters were now completed, and we had but to store them with food. Day after day
we worked, bringing in provisions of every description.

As we were one evening returning from gathering potatoes, it struck me that we should take
in a store of acorns; and sending the two younger boys home with their mother and the cart,
I took a large canvas bag, and with Fritz and Ernest, the former mounted on his onager, and
the latter carrying his little favorite, Knips, made a detour toward the Acorn Wood.

We reached the spot, tied Lightfoot to a neighboring tree, and began rapidly to fill the sack.
As we were thus engaged, Knips sprang suddenly into a bush close by, from which, a moment afterward,
issued such strange cries that Ernest followed to see what could be the matter.

"Come!" he shouted; "come and help me! I've got a couple of birds and their eggs. Quick! Ruffed
grouse!"

We hurried to the spot. There was Ernest with a fluttering, screaming bird in either hand;
while with his foot he was endeavoring to prevent his greedy little monkey from seizing the
eggs. We quickly tied the legs of the birds, and removing the eggs from the nest, placed them
in Ernest's hat; while he gathered some of the long, broad grass, with which the nest was woven,
and which grew luxuriantly around, for Franz to play at sword-drill with. We then loaded the
onager with the acorns, and moved homeward. The eggs I covered carefully with dry moss, that
they might be kept warm, and as soon as possible I handed them over to my wife, who managed
the mother so cleverly that she induced her to return to the eggs, and in a few days, to our
great delight, we had fifteen beautiful little chicks.

Franz was greatly pleased with the "swords" his brother brought him; but having no small companion
on whom to exercise his valor, he amused himself for a short time in hewing down imaginary
foes, and then cut the reeds in slips, and plaited them to form a whip for Lightfoot. The leaves
seemed so pliable and strong that I examined them to see to what further use they might be
put. Their tissue was composed of long silky fibers. A sudden thought struck me--this must
be New Zealand flax. [Footnote: New Zealand flax is not real flax: it is a plant of the lily
family, the fiber of whose leaves is used for making ropes, mats and coarse cloth.] I could
not rest till I had announced this invaluable discovery to my wife. She was no less delighted
than I was.

"Bring me the leaves!" she exclaimed. "Oh, what a delightful discovery! No one shall now be
clothed in rags; just make me a spindle, and you shall soon have shirts and stockings and trousers,
all good homespun! Quick, Fritz, and bring your mother more leaves!"

We could not help smiling at her eager zeal; but Fritz and Ernest sprang on their steeds, and
soon the onager and the buffalo were galloping home again, each laden with a great bundle of
flax. The boys dismounted and deposited their offering at their mother's feet.

"Capital!" she exclaimed. "I shall now show you that I am not at all behindhand in ingenuity.
This must be retted, carded, spun, and woven, and then with scissors, needle, and thread I
will make you any article of clothing you choose."

We decided that Flamingo Marsh would be the best spot for the operation of steeping or "retting"
the flax, and next morning we set out thither with the cart drawn by the ass, and laden with
the bundles, between which sat Franz and Knips, while the rest of us followed with spades and
hatchets. I described to my boys as we went along the process of retting, and explained to
them how steeping the flax leaves destroys the useless membrane, while the strong fibers remain.

As we were employed in making beds for the flax and placing it in them, we observed several
nests of the flamingo. These are most curiously and skilfully made of glutinous clay, so strong
that they can neither be overturned nor washed away. They are formed in the shape of blunted
cones, and placed point downward; at the upper and broader end is built a little platform to
contain the eggs, on which the female bird sits, with her long legs in the water on either
side, until the little birds are hatched and can take to the water. For a fortnight we left
the flax to steep, and then taking it out and drying it thoroughly in the sun, stored it for
future use at Falconhurst.

Daily did we load our cart with provisions to be brought to our winter quarters: manioc, potatoes,
cocoanuts, sweet acorns, sugar canes, were all collected and stored in abundance--for grumbling
thunder, lowering skies, and sharp showers warned us that we had no time to lose. Our corn
was sowed, our animals housed, our provisions stored, when down came the rain.

To continue in our nest we found impossible, and we were obliged to retreat to the trunk, where
we carried such of our domestic furniture as might have been injured by the damp. Our dwelling
was indeed crowded; the animals and provisions below, and our beds and household goods around
us, hemmed us in on every side; by dint of patience and better packing, we obtained sufficient
room to work and lie down in; by degrees, too, we became accustomed to the continual noise
of the animals and the smell of the stables. The smoke from the fire, which we were occasionally
obliged to light, was not agreeable; but in time even that seemed to become more bearable.

To make more space, we turned such animals as we had captured, and who therefore might be imagined
to know how to shift for themselves, outside during the daytime, bringing them under the arched
roots only at night. To perform this duty Fritz and I used to sally forth every evening, and
as regularly every evening did we return soaked to the skin. To obviate this, the mother, who
feared these continual wettings might injure our health, contrived waterproofs; she brushed
on several layers of caoutchouc over stout shirts, to which she attached hoods; she then fixed
to these duck trousers, and thus prepared for each of us a complete water-proof suit, clad
in which we might brave the severest rain.

In spite of our endeavors to keep ourselves busy, the time dragged heavily. Our mornings were
occupied in tending the animals; the boys amused themselves with their pets, and assisted me
in the manufacture of carding-combs and a spindle for the mother. The combs I made with nails,
which I placed head downward on a sheet of tin about an inch wide; holding the nails in their
proper positions I poured solder round their heads to fix them to the tin, which I then folded
down on either side of them to keep them perfectly firm. In the evening, when our room was
illuminated with wax candles, I wrote a journal of all the events which had occurred since
our arrival in this foreign land; and, while the mother was busy with her needle and Ernest
making sketches of birds, beasts and flowers with which he had met during the past months,
Fritz and Jack taught little Franz to read.

Week after week rolled by. Week after week saw us still close prisoners. Incessant rain battered
down above us; constant gloom hung over the desolate scene.

VI

ROCK HOUSE

The winds at length were lulled, the sun shot his brilliant rays through the riven clouds,
the rain ceased to fall--spring had come. No prisoners set at liberty could have felt more
joy than we did as we stepped forth from our winter abode, refreshed our eyes with the pleasant
verdure around us, and our ears with the merry songs of a thousand happy birds, and drank in
the pure, balmy air of spring.

Our plantations were thriving vigorously. The seed we had sown was shooting through the moist
earth. All nature was refreshed.

Our nest was our first care; filled with leaves and broken and torn by the wind, it looked
dilapidated. We worked hard, and in a few days it was again habitable. My wife now begged that
I would start her with the flax, and as early as possible I built a drying-oven, and then prepared
the flax for her use; I also, after some trouble, manufactured a beetle-reel and spinning wheel,
and she and Franz were soon hard at work, the little boy reeling off the thread his mother spun.

I was anxious to visit Tentholm, for I feared that much of our precious stores might have suffered,
and Fritz and I made an early excursion thither. The damage done to Falconhurst was as nothing
compared to the scene that awaited us. The tent was blown to the ground, the canvas torn to
rags, the provisions were soaked, and two casks of powder utterly destroyed. We immediately
spread such things as we hoped yet to preserve in the sun to dry. The pinnace was safe, hut
our faithful tub-boat was dashed in pieces, and the irreparable damage we had sustained made
me resolve to contrive some safer and more stable winter quarters before the arrival of the
next rainy season. Fritz proposed that we should hollow out a cave in the rock, and though
the difficulties seemed almost insurmountable, I yet determined to make the attempt; we might
not, I thought, hew out a cavern of sufficient size to serve as a room, but we might at least
make a cellar for the more valuable and perishable of our stores.

Some days afterward we left Falconhurst with the cart laden with a cargo of spades, hammers,
chisels, pickaxes, and crowbars, and began our undertaking. On the smooth face of the perpendicular
rock I drew out in chalk the size of the proposed entrance, and then, with minds bent on success,
we battered away. Six days of hard and incessant toil made but little impression; I do not
think that the hole would have been a satisfactory shelter for even Master Knips; but we still
did not despair, and were presently rewarded by coming to softer and more yielding substance;
our work progressed, and our minds were relieved.

On the tenth day, as our persevering blows were falling heavily, Jack, who was working diligently
with a hammer and crowbar, shouted:

"Gone, father! Fritz, my bar has gone through the mountain!"

"Run round and get it," laughed Fritz; "perhaps it has dropped into Europe--you must not lose
a good crowbar."

"But, really, it is through; it went right through the rock; I heard it crash down inside.
Oh, do come and see!" he shouted, excitedly.

We sprang to his side, and I thrust the handle of my hammer into the hole he spoke of; it met
with no opposition; I could turn it in any direction I chose. Fritz handed me a long pole;
I tried the depth with that. Nothing could I feel. A thin wall, then, was all that intervened
between us and a great cavern.

With a shout of joy, the boys battered vigorously at the rock; piece by piece fell, and soon
the hole was large enough for us to enter. I stepped near the aperture, and was about to make
a further examination, when a sudden rush of poisonous air turned me giddy, and shouting to
my sons to stand off, I leaned against the rock.

When I came to myself I explained to them the danger of approaching any cavern or other place
where the air has for a long time been stagnant. "Unless air is incessantly renewed it becomes
vitiated," I said, "and fatal to those who breathe it. The safest way of restoring it to its
original state is to subject it to the action of fire; a few handfuls of blazing hay thrown
into this hole may, if the place be small, sufficiently purify the air within to allow us to
enter without danger." We tried the experiment. The flame was extinguished the instant it entered.
Though bundles of blazing grass were thrown in, no difference was made.

I saw that we must apply some more efficacious remedy, and sent the boys for a chest of signal
rockets we had brought from the wreck. We let fly some dozens of these fiery serpents, which
went whizzing in, and disappeared at apparently a vast distance from us. Some flew like radiant
meteors round, lighted up the mighty circumference and displayed, as by a magician's wand,
a sparkling, glittering roof. They looked like avenging dragons driving a foul, malignant fiend
out of a beauteous palace.

We waited for a little while after these experiments, and I then again threw in lighted hay.
It burned clearly; the air was purified.

Fritz and I enlarged the opening, while Jack, springing on his buffalo, thundered away to Falconhurst
to bear the great and astonishing news to his mother.

Great must have been the effect of Jack's eloquence on those at home, for the timbers of the
bridge were soon again resounding under the swift but heavy tramp of his steed; and he was
quickly followed by the rest of our party in the cart.

All were in the highest state of excitement. Jack had stowed in the cart all the candles he
could find, and we now, lighting these, shouldered our arms and entered.

I led the way, sounding the ground as I advanced with a long pole, that we might not fall unexpectedly
into any great hole or chasm, Silently we marched---the mother, the boys, and even the dogs
seeming overawed with the grandeur and beauty of the scene. We were in a grotto of diamonds--a
vast cave of glittering crystal; the candles reflected on the wall a golden light, bright as
the stars of heaven, while great crystal pillars rose from the floor like mighty trees, mingling
their branches high above us and drooping in hundreds of stalactites, which sparkled and glittered
with all the colors of the rainbow.

The floor of this magnificent palace was formed of hard, dry sand, so dry that I saw at once
that we might safely take up our abode therein, without the slightest fear of danger from damp.

From the appearance of the brilliant crystals round about us I suspected their nature.

I tasted a piece. This was a cavern of rock salt. There was no doubt about it--here was an
unlimited supply of the best and purest salt! But one thing detracted from my entire satisfaction
and delight--large crystals lay scattered here and there, which, detached from the roof, had
fallen to the ground; this, if apt to recur, would keep us in constant peril. I examined some
of the masses and discovered that they had been all recently separated, and therefore concluded
that the concussion of the air occasioned by the rockets had caused their fall. To satisfy
ourselves, however, that there were no more pieces tottering above us, we discharged our guns
from the entrance, and watched the effect. Nothing more fell--our magnificent abode was safe.

We returned to Falconhurst with minds full of wonder at our new discovery, and plans for turning
it to the best possible advantage.

Nothing was now talked of but the new house, how it should be arranged, how it should be fitted
up. The safety and comfort of Falconhurst, which had at first seemed so great, now dwindled
away in our opinion to nothing; it should be kept up, we decided, merely as a summer residence,
while our cave should be formed into a winter house and impregnable castle. Our attention was
now fully occupied with this new house. Light and air were to be admitted, so we hewed a row
of windows in the rock, where we fitted the window cases we had brought from the officers'
cabins. We brought the door, too, from Falconhurst, and fitted it in the aperture we had made.
The opening in the trunk of the tree I determined to conceal with bark, as less likely to attract
the notice of wild beasts or savages should they approach during our absence. The cave itself
we divided into four parts: in front, a large compartment into which the door opened, subdivided
into our sitting, eating, and sleeping apartments; the right-hand division containing our kitchen
and workshop, and the left our stables; behind all this, in the dark recesses of the cave,
was our storehouse and powder magazine. Having already undergone one rainy season, we knew
well its discomforts, and thought of many useful arrangements in the laying out of our dwelling,
We did not intend to be again smoke-dried; we therefore contrived a properly built fireplace
and chimney; our stable arrangements, too, were better, and plenty of space was left in our
workshop that we should not be hampered in even the most extensive operations.

Our frequent residence at Tentholm revealed to us several important advantages which we had
not foreseen. Numbers of splendid turtles often came ashore to deposit their eggs in the sand,
and their delicious flesh afforded us many a sumptuous meal. When more than one of these creatures
appeared at a time, we used to cut off their retreat to the sea, and, turning them on their
backs, fasten them to a stake driven in close by the water's edge, by a cord passed through
a hole in their shell. We thus had fresh turtle continually within our reach; for the animals
throve well thus secured, and appeared in as good condition, after having been kept thus for
several weeks, as others when freshly caught. Lobsters, crabs, and mussels also abounded on
the shore. But this was not all; an additional surprise awaited us.

As we were one morning approaching Tentholm, we were attracted by a most curious phenomenon.
The waters out at sea appeared agitated by some unseen movement, and as they heaved and boiled,
their surface, struck by the beams of the morning sun, seemed illuminated by flashes of fire.
Over the water where this disturbance was taking place hovered hundreds of birds, screaming
loudly, which ever and anon would dart downward, some plunging beneath the water, some skimming
the surface. Then again they would rise and resume their harsh cries. The shining, sparkling
mass then rolled onward, and approached in a direct line our bay, followed by the feathered
flock above. We hurried down to the shore to examine further this strange sight.

I was convinced as we approached that it was a shoal, or bank, of herrings.

No sooner did I give utterance to my conjecture than I was assailed by a host of questions
concerning this herring-bank--what it was, and what occasioned it.

"A herring-bank," I said, "is composed of an immense number of herrings swimming together.
I can scarcely express to you the huge size of this living bank, which extends over a great
area many fathoms deep. It is followed by numbers of great ravenous fish, who devour quantities
of the herrings, while above hover birds, as you have just seen, ready to pounce down on stragglers
near the top. To escape these enemies, the shoal makes for the nearest shore, and seeks safety
in those shallows where the large fish cannot follow. But here it meets with a third great
enemy. It may escape from the fish, and elude the vigilance of sharp-sighted birds, but from
the ingenuity of man it can find no escape. In one year millions of these fish are caught,
and yet the roes of only a small number would be sufficient to supply as many fish again."

Soon our fishery was in operation. Jack and Fritz stood in the water with baskets, and baled
out the fish, as one bales water with a bucket, throwing them to us on the shore. As quickly
as possible we cleaned them, and placed them in casks with salt, first a layer of salt, and
then a layer of herrings, and so on, until we had ready many casks of pickled fish.

As the barrels were filled, we closed them carefully, and rolled them away to the cool vaults
at the back of our cave.

Our good fortune, however, was not to end here. A day after the herring fishery was over, and
the shoal had left our bay, a great number of seals appeared, attracted by the refuse of the
herrings which we had thrown into the sea. Though I feared they would not be suitable for our
table, we yet secured a score or two for the sake of their skins and fat. The skins we drew
carefully off for harness and clothing, and the fat we boiled down for oil, which we put aside
in casks for tanning, soap making, and burning in lamps.

These occupations interfered for some time with our work at Rock House; but as soon as possible
we again returned to our labor with renewed vigor.

I had noticed that the salt crystals had for their base a species of gypsum, which I knew might
be made of great service to us in our building operations as plaster.

As an experiment, I broke off some pieces, and, after subjecting them to great heat, reduced
them to powder. The plaster this formed with water was smooth and white, and as I had then
no particular use to which I might put it, I plastered over some of the herring casks, that
I might be perfectly certain that all air was excluded. The remainder of the casks I left as
they were, for I presently intended to preserve their contents by smoking. To do this, the
boys and I built a small hut of reeds and branches, and then we strung our herrings on lines
across the roof. On the floor we lit a great fire of brushwood and moss, which threw out a
dense smoke, curling in volumes round the fish, and they in a few days seemed perfectly cured.

About a month after the appearance of the herrings, we were favored by a visit from other shoals
of fish. Jack espied them first, and called to us that a lot of young whales were off the coast.
We ran down and discovered the bay apparently swarming with great sturgeon, salmon and trout,
all making for the mouth of Jackal River, that they might ascend it and deposit their spawn
among the stones.

Jack was delighted at his discovery.

"Here are proper fish!" he exclaimed; "none of your paltry fry. How do you preserve these sorts
of fish? Potted, salted or smoked?"

"Not so fast," said I, "not so fast; tell me how they are to be caught, and I will tell you
how they are to be cooked."

"Oh! I'll catch them fast enough," he replied, and darted off to Rock House.

While I was still puzzling my brains as to how I should set to work, he returned with his fishing
apparatus in hand; a bow and arrow, and a ball of twine.

At the arrowhead he had fastened a barbed spike, and had secured the arrow to the end of the
string. Armed with this weapon, he advanced to the river's edge.

His arrow flew from the bow, and, to my surprise, struck one of the largest fish in the side.

"Help, father, help!" he cried, as the great fish darted off, carrying arrow and all with it;
"help! or he will pull me into the water."

I ran to his assistance, and together we struggled with the finny monster. He pulled tremendously,
and lashed the water around him; but we held the cord fast, and he had no chance of escape.
Weaker and weaker grew his struggles, and, at length, exhausted by his exertions and loss of
blood, he allowed us to draw him ashore.

He was a noble prize, and Fritz and Ernest, who came up just as we completed his capture, were
quite envious of Jack's success. Not to be behind-hand, they eagerly rushed off for weapons
themselves.

We were soon all in the water, Fritz with a harpoon, Ernest with a rod and line, and I myself
armed, like Neptune, with an iron trident, or more properly speaking, perhaps, a pitchfork.
Soon the shore was strewn with a goodly number of the finest fish--monster after monster we
drew to land. At length Fritz, after harpooning a great sturgeon full eight feet long, could
not get the fish ashore; we all went to his assistance, but our united efforts were unavailing.

"The buffalo!" proposed my wife, and off went Jack for Storm. Storm was harnessed to the harpoon
rope, and soon the monstrous fish lay panting on the sand.

We at length, when we had captured as many fish as we could possibly utilize, set about cleaning
and preparing their flesh. Some we salted, some we dried like the herrings, some we treated
like the tunny of the Mediterranean--we prepared them in oil.

For two months we worked steadily at our salt-cave, in order to complete the necessary arrangement
of partition walls, so as to put the rooms and stalls for the animals in comfortable order
for the next long rainy season.

We leveled the floors first with clay; then spread gravel mixed with melted gypsum over that,
producing a smooth, hard surface, which did very well for most of the apartments; but I was
ambitious of having one or two carpets, and set about making a kind of felt in the following way:

I spread out a large piece of sailcloth, and covered it equally all over with a strong liquid,
made of glue and isinglass, which saturated it thoroughly. On it we then laid wool and hair
from the sheep and goats, which had been carefully cleaned and prepared, and rolled and beat
it until it adhered tolerably smoothly to the cloth. Finally it became, when perfectly dry,
a covering for the floor of our sitting room by no means to be despised.

One morning, just after these labors at the salt-cave were completed, happening to awake unusually
early, I turned my thoughts, as I lay waiting for sunrise, to considering what length of time
we had now passed on this coast, and discovered, to my surprise, that the very next day would
be the anniversary of our escape from the wreck. My heart swelled with gratitude to the gracious
God, who had then granted us deliverance, and ever since loaded us with benefits; and I resolved
to set to-morrow apart as a day of thanksgiving, in joyful celebration of the occasion.

My mind was full of indefinite plans when I rose, and the day's work began as usual. I took
care that everything should be cleaned, cleared, and set in order both outside and inside our
dwelling; none, however, suspecting that there was any particular object in view. Other more
private preparations I also made for the next day. At supper I made the coming event known
to the assembled family.

"Good people, do you know that to-morrow is a very great and important day? We shall have to
keep it in honor of our merciful escape to this land, and call it Thanksgiving Day."

VII

THE BOA CONSTRICTOR

I was seated with my wife and Fritz beneath the shade of the veranda, engaged in wicker work,
and chatting pleasantly, when suddenly Fritz got up, advanced a step or two, gazing fixedly
along the avenue which led from Jackal River, and finally exclaimed:

"I see something so strange in the distance, father! What in the world can it be? First it
seems to be drawn in coils on the ground like a cable, then uprises as if it were a little
mast, then that sinks, and the coils move along again. It is coming toward the bridge."

My wife took alarm at this description, and calling the other boys, retreated into the cave,
where I desired them to close up the entrances, and keep watch with firearms at the upper windows.
These were openings we had made in the rock at some elevation, reached within by steps, and
a kind of gallery which passed along the front of the rooms.

Fritz remained by me while I examined the object through my spyglass.

"It is, as I feared, an enormous serpent!" cried I; "it advances directly this way, and we
shall be placed in the greatest possible danger, for it will cross the bridge to a certainty."

"May we not attack it, father?" exclaimed the brave boy.

"Only with the greatest caution," returned I; "it is far too formidable, and too tenacious
of life, for us rashly to attempt its destruction. Thank God, we are at Rockburg, where we
can keep in safe retreat, while we watch for an opportunity to destroy this frightful enemy.
Go up to your mother now, and assist in preparing the firearms; I will join you directly, but
I must further observe the monster's movements."

Fritz left me unwillingly, while I continued to watch the serpent which was of gigantic size,
and already much too near the bridge to admit of the possibility of removing that means of
access to our dwelling. I recollected, too, how easily it would pass through the walls. The
reptile advanced with writhing and undulatory movements, from time to time rearing its head
to the height of fifteen or twenty feet, and slowly turning it about, as though on the lookout
for prey.

As it crossed the bridge with a slow, suspicious motion, I withdrew, and hastily rejoined my
little party, which was preparing to garrison our fortress in warlike array, but with considerable
trepidation, which my presence served in a measure to allay.

We placed ourselves at the upper openings, after strongly barricading everything below, and,
ourselves unseen, awaited with beating hearts the further advance of the foe, which speedily
became visible to us.

Its movements appeared to become uncertain as though puzzled by the trace of human habitation;
it turned in different directions, coiling and uncoiling, and frequently rearing its head,
but keeping about the middle of the space in front of the cave, when suddenly, as though unable
to resist doing so, one after another the boys fired, and even their mother discharged her
gun. The shots took not the slightest effect beyond startling the monster, whose movements
were accelerated. Fritz and I also fired with steadier aim, but with the same want of success,
for the monster, passing on with a gliding motion, entered the reedy marsh to the left, and
entirely disappeared.

A wonderful weight seemed lifted from our hearts, while all eagerly discussed the vast length
and awful though magnificent appearance of the serpent. I had recognized it as the boa constrictor.
It was a vast specimen, upward of thirty feet in length.

The near neighborhood of this terrific reptile occasioned me the utmost anxiety; and I desired
that no one should leave the house on any pretense whatever, without my express permission.

During three whole days we were kept in suspense and fear, not daring to stir above a few hundred
steps from the door, although during all that time the enemy showed no sign of his presence.

In fact, we might have been induced to think the boa had passed across the swamp, and found
his way by some cleft or chasm through the wall of cliffs beyond, had not the restless behavior
of our geese and ducks given proof that he still lurked in the thicket of reeds which they
were accustomed to make their nightly resting place.

They swam anxiously about, and with much clapping of wings and disturbed cackling showed their
uneasiness; finally taking wing they crossed the harbor, and took up their quarters on Shark
Island.

My embarrassment increased, as time passed on. I could not venture to attack with insufficient
force a monstrous and formidable serpent concealed in dense thickets amidst dangerous swamps;
yet it was dreadful to live in a state of blockade, cut off from all the important duties in
which we were engaged, and shut up with our animals in the unnatural light of the cave, enduring
constant anxiety and perturbation.

Out of this painful state we were at last delivered by none other than our good old simple-hearted
donkey; not, however, by the exercise of a praise-worthy quality, but by sheer stupidity.

Our situation was rendered the more critical from having no great stock of provisions, or fodder
for the animals; and the hay failing us on the evening of the third day, I determined to set
them at liberty by sending them, under the guidance of Fritz, across the river at the ford.

He was to ride Lightfoot, and they were to be fastened together until safely over.

Next morning we began to prepare for this by tying them in a line, and while so engaged my
wife opened the door, when old Grizzle, who was fresh and frolicsome after the long rest and
regular feeding, suddenly broke away from the halter, cut some awkward capers, then bolting
out, careered at full gallop straight for the marsh.

In vain we called him by name. Fritz would even have rushed after him, had not I held him back.
In another moment the ass was close to the thicket, and with the cold shudder of horror, we
beheld the snake rear itself from its lair, the fiery eyes glanced around, the dark, deadly
jaws opened widely, the forked tongue darted greedily forth--poor Grizzle's fate was sealed.

Becoming aware on a sudden of his danger, he stopped short, spread out all four legs, and set
up the most piteous and discordant bray that ever wrung echo from rocks.

Swift and straight as a fencer's thrust, the destroyer was upon him, wound round him, entangled,
enfolded, compressed him, all the while cunningly avoiding the convulsive kicks of the agonized
animal.

A cry of horror arose from the spectators of this miserable tragedy.

"Shoot him, father! oh, shoot him--do save poor Grizzle!"

"My children, it is impossible!" cried I. "Our old friend is lost to us forever! I have hopes,
however, that when gorged with his prey we may be able to attack the snake with some chance
of success."

"But the horrible wretch is never going to swallow him all at once, father?" cried Jack. "That
will be too shocking!"

"Snakes have no grinders, but only fangs, therefore they cannot chew their food, and must swallow
it whole. But although the idea is startling, it is not really more shocking than the rending,
tearing, and shedding of blood which occurs when the lions and tigers seize their prey."

"But," said Franz, "how can the snake separate the flesh from the bones without teeth? And
is this kind of snake poisonous?"

"No, dear child," said I, "only fearfully strong and ferocious. And it has no need to tear
the flesh from the bones. It swallows them, skin, hair, and all, and digests everything in
its stomach."

"It seems utterly impossible that the broad ribs, the strong legs, hoofs, and all, should go
down that throat," exclaimed Fritz.

"Only see," I replied, "how the monster deals with his victim; closer and more tightly he curls
his crushing folds, the bones give way, he is kneading him into a shapeless mass. He will soon
begin to gorge his prey, and slowly but surely it will disappear down that distended maw!"

The mother, with little Franz, found the scene all too horrible, and hastened into the cave,
trembling and distressed.

To the rest of us there seemed a fearful fascination in the dreadful sight, and we could not
move from the spot. I expected that the boa, before swallowing his prey, would cover it with
saliva, to aid in the operation, although it struck me that its very slender forked tongue
was about the worst possible implement for such a purpose.

It was evident to us, however, that this popular idea was erroneous.

The act of lubricating the mass must have taken place during the process of swallowing; certainly
nothing was applied beforehand.

This wonderful performance lasted from seven in the morning until noon. When the awkward morsel
was entirely swallowed, the serpent lay stiff, distorted, and apparently insensible along the
edge of the marsh. I felt that now or never was the moment for attack.

Calling on my sons to maintain their courage and presence of mind, I left our retreat with
a feeling of joyous emotion quite new to me, and approached with rapid steps and leveled gun
the outstretched form of the serpent. Fritz followed me closely.

Jack, somewhat timidly, came several paces behind; while Ernest, after a little hesitation,
remained where he was.

The monster's body was stiff and motionless, which made its rolling and fiery eyes, and the
slow, spasmodic undulations of its tail more fearful by contrast.

We fired together, and both balls entered the skull; the light of the eye was extinguished,
and the only movement was in the further extremity of the body, which rolled, writhed, coiled,
and lashed from side to side. Advancing closer, we fired our pistols directly into its head,
a convulsive quiver ran through the mighty frame, and the boa constrictor lay dead.

As we raised a cry of victory, Jack, desirous of a share in the glory of conquest, ran close
to the creature, firing his pistol into its side, when he was sent sprawling over and over
by a movement of its tail, excited to a last galvanic effort by the shot.

Being in no way hurt, he speedily recovered his feet, and declared he had given it its quietus.

"I hope the terrible noise you made just now was the signal of victory," said my wife, drawing
near, with the utmost circumspection, and holding Franz tightly by the hand. "I was half afraid
to come, I assure you."

"See this dreadful creature dead at our feet; and let us thank God that we have been able to
destroy such an enemy."

"What's to be done with him now?" asked Jack.

"Let us get him stuffed," said Fritz, "and set him up in the museum among our shells and corals."

"Did anybody ever think of eating serpents?" inquired Franz.

"Of course not!" said his mother. "Why, child, serpents are poisonous --it would be very dangerous."

"Excuse me, my dear wife," said I. "First of all, the boa is not poisonous; and then, besides
that, the flesh of even poisonous snakes can be eaten without danger; as, for instance, the
rattlesnake, from which can be made a strong and nourishing soup, tasting very like good chicken
broth--of course, the cook must be told to throw away the head, containing the deadly fangs.
"It is remarkable that pigs do not fear poisonous snakes, but can kill and eat them without
injury. An instance of this occurs to my memory. A vessel on Lake Superior, in North America,
was wrecked on a small island abounding in rattlesnakes, and for that reason uninhabited.

"The vessel had a cargo of live pigs. The crew escaped to the mainland in a boat, but the pigs
had to be left for some time, till the owner could return to fetch them, but with the small
hope of finding many left alive.

"To his surprise, the animals were not only alive, but remarkably fat and flourishing, while
not a single rattlesnake remained on the island. The pigs had clearly eaten the serpents."

VIII

THE EXCURSION BY THE BOYS. THE TRAINING OF THE OSTRICH

The four boys at length became so weary of inaction, that I determined to let them make an
excursion alone on the Savannah. Three of them received this permission with eager delight,
but Ernest said he would prefer to remain with us; to which, as the expedition was to be entirely
one of pleasure, I could make no objection.

Little Franz, on the other hand, whom I would willingly have kept with us, was wild to go with
his brothers, and I was obliged to consent, as I had made the proposal open to all, and could
not draw back.

In the highest spirits they ran to bring their steeds (as we were fain to call the cattle they
rode) from their pasturage at a short distance. Speedily were they saddled, bridled, and mounted---the
three lads were ready to be off.

We, who remained behind, passed the day in a variety of useful occupations.

As evening approached, the bears' paws which were stewing for supper sent forth savory odors;
and we sat talking round the fire, while listening anxiously for sounds heralding the return
of our young explorers.

At last the tramp and beat of hoofs struck our ears; the little troop appeared, crossing the
open ground before us at a sharp trot, and a shrill ringing cheer greeted us as we rose and
went to meet them.

They sprang from their saddles, the animals were set at liberty to refresh themselves, and
the riders eagerly came to exhibit their acquisitions and give an account of themselves.

Funny figures they cut! Franz and Jack had each a young kid slung on his back, so that the
four legs, tied together, stuck out under their chins.

Fritz's game bag looked remarkably queer--round lumps, sharp points, and an occasional movement
seemed to indicate a living creature or creatures within.

"Hurrah for the chase, father!" cried Jack, "Nothing like real hunting after all. And just
to see how Storm and Grumble go along over a grassy plain! It is perfectly splendid! We soon
tired out the little antelopes, and were able to catch them."

"Yes, father," said Franz; "and Fritz has two Angora rabbits in his bag, and we wanted to bring
you some honey. Only think! such a clever bird--a cuckoo, showed us where it was!"

"My brothers forget the chief thing," said Fritz. "We had driven the little herd of antelopes
right through the Gap into our territory; and there they are, all ready for us to hunt when
we like---or to catch and tame!"

"We had a splendid ride," said Fritz, "down Glen Verdant, and away to the defile through our
Rocky Barrier, and the morning was so cool and fresh that our steeds galloped along, nearly
the whole way, at the top of their speed. When we had passed through the Gap we moderated our
furious pace and kept our eyes open on the lookout for game; we then trotted slowly to the
top of a grassy hill, from whose summit we saw two herds of animals, whether antelopes, goats,
or gazelles, we did not know, grazing by the side of the stream below us. We were about to
gallop down and try to get a shot at them, when it struck me that it would be wiser to try
and drive the whole herd through the Gap into our own domain, where they would be shut up,
as it were, in a park, free and yet within reach. Down the hill we rode as hard as we could
go, formed in a semicircle behind the larger herd--magnificent antelopes--and, aided by the
dogs, with shouts and cries drove them along the stream toward the Gap; as we came near the
opening they appeared inclined to halt and turn, like sheep about to be driven into the butcher's
yard; and it was all we could do to prevent them from bolting past us; but at length one made
a rush at the opening, and the rest following, they were soon all on the other side of the
frontier, and inhabitants of New Switzerland.

"We stretched a long line right across the defile and strung on it feathers and rags and all
sorts of other things, which danced and fluttered in the wind, and looked so strange that I
am perfectly certain that the herd will never attempt to pass it."

"Well done," said I. "I am glad to see that you remember what you have read. The antelopes
are welcome to New Switzerland, but, my boy," I added, "I cannot say the same for the rabbits
you have here; they increase so rapidly that if you establish a colony of the little wretches
your next difficulty will be to get rid of them."

"True," he replied, "but my idea was to place them upon Whale Island, where they would find
abundant food, and at the same time in no way trouble us. May I not establish a warren there?
It would be so useful. Do you know, my eagle caught these pretty little fellows for me? I saw
a number of them running about and so unhooded him, and in a few minutes he brought me three--one
dead, with whose body I rewarded him, and these two here, unhurt."

"Now, father," said Jack, interrupting him, "do listen to me and hear my story, or else Fritz
will begin upon my adventures and tire you out with his rigmarole descriptions."

"Certainly, Jack," I said, "I am quite ready to listen to you. First and foremost, how did
you bring down those beautiful little animals you have there?"

"Oh, we galloped them down. The dogs sniffed about in the grass while Fritz was away after
the rabbits, out popped those little fawns, and away they went bounding and skipping, at the
rate of thirty miles an hour, with Storm, Grumble, and the dogs at their heels. In about a
quarter of an hour we had left the dogs behind and were close upon our prey. Down went the
little creatures in the grass, and, overcome with terror and fatigue, were at our mercy. So
we shouted to Fritz, and--"

"My dear boy," said I, "according to your statement, Fritz must have been seven miles and a
half off."

"Oh, well, father, perhaps we did not ride for quite a quarter of an hour, and, of course,
I can't say exactly how fast we were going; and then, you see, the fawns did not run in a straight
line; at any rate Fritz heard us, and he and Franz and I leashed the legs of the pretty creatures,
and then we mounted again, and presently saw a wretch of a cuckoo, who led us ever so far out
of our course by cuckooing and making faces at us, and then hopping away. Franz declared it
must be an enchanted princess, and so I thought I would rid it of its spell; but Fritz stopped
me shooting it, and said it was a 'Honey Indicator,' and that it was leading us probably to
a bees' byke, so we spared its life, and presently, sure enough, it stopped close by a bees'
nest in a hollow tree. This was capital, we thought, and, as we were in a great hurry to taste
the honey, I threw in a lot of lighted lucifer matches, but somehow it did not kill the bees
at all, but only made them awfully angry, and they flew out in a body and stung me all over.
I rushed to Storm and sprang on his back, but, though I galloped away for bare life, it was
an age before I got rid of the little wretches, and now my face is in a perfect fever. I think
I will get mother to bathe it for me;" and off rushed the noisy boy, leaving Fritz and me to
see to the fawns and examine the rabbits. With these latter I determined to do as Fritz proposed,
namely, to colonize Whale Island. I was all the more willing to do this because I had been
considering the advisability of establishing on that island a fortress to which we might retreat
in any extreme danger, and where we should be very thankful, in case of such a retreat, to
possess means of obtaining a constant supply of animal food.

I ministered to the wants of the antelopes, and just then the mother summoned us to dinner.

The principal dish in this meal consisted of bears' paws--most savory smelling delicacies,
so tempting that their close resemblance to human hands, and even the roguish "Fee-fo-fum"
from Jack, did not prevent a single member of the family from enjoying them most heartily.

Supper over, we lit our watch fire, retired to our tent, and slept soundly.

We had been working very diligently; the bears' meat was smoked, the fat melted down and stored,
and a large supply of bamboos collected. But I wished to make yet another excursion, and at
early dawn I aroused the boys.

Fritz mounted the mule, I rode Lightfoot, Jack and Franz took their usual steeds, and, with
the two dogs, we galloped off--first to visit the euphorbia to collect the gum, and then to
discover whether an ostrich which we had found previously had deserted her eggs in the sand.
Ernest watched us depart without the slightest look or sigh of regret, and returned to the
tent to assist his mother and study his books.

Our steeds carried us down the Green Valley at a rapid rate, and we followed the direction
we had pursued on our former expedition. We soon reached Turtle Marsh, and then filling our
water flasks, we arrived at the rising ground.

As Jack and Franz wanted to gallop, I allowed them to press forward, while Fritz and I visited
the euphorbia trees. A quantity of the red gum had exuded from the incisions I had made, and
as this had coagulated in the sun, I rolled it into little balls and stored it in a bamboo
jar I had brought with me for the purpose.

As we rode after the boys, who were some way ahead, Fritz remarked:

"Did you not tell me that the juice of that tree was poisonous, father; why have you collected
such a quantity?"

"I did indeed say so," I replied; "it is a most deadly poison. The inhabitants of the Cape
of Good Hope use it to poison the springs where wild animals assemble to quench their thirst;
and they thus slaughter an immense number of the creatures for the sake of their hides. I intend,
however, to use it to destroy the apes should they again commit depredations, and also in preparing
the skins of animals to protect them from the attacks of insects."

The two boys were still at some distance from us, when suddenly four magnificent ostriches
rose from the sand where they had been sitting.

Jack and Franz perceived them, and, with a great shout, drove them toward us. In front ran
a splendid male bird, his feathers of shining black, and his great tail plume waving. Three
females of an ashen gray color followed him. They approached us with incredible swiftness,
and were within gunshot before they perceived us. Fritz had had the forethought to bind up
the beak of his eagle so that, should he bring down an ostrich, he might be unable to injure it.

He now threw up the falcon, which, towering upward, swooped down upon the head of the foremost
bird, and so confused and alarmed him, that he could not defend himself nor continue his flight.
So greatly was his speed checked that Jack overtook him, and hurling his lasso, enfolded his
wings and legs in its deadly coils and brought him to the ground. The other ostriches were
almost out of sight, so leaving them to their own devices, we leaped from our steeds and attempted
to approach the captured bird. He struggled fearfully, and kicked with such violence, right
and left, that I almost despaired of getting him home alive.

It occurred to me, however, that if we could cover his eyes, his fury might be subdued. I instantly
acted upon this idea, and flung over his head my coat and hunting bag, which effectually shut
out the light.

No sooner had I done this than his struggles ceased, and we were able to approach. We first
secured round his body a broad strip of sealskin, on each side of which I fastened a stout
piece of cord, that I might be able to lead him easily. Then fastening another cord in a loop
round his legs that he might he prevented from breaking into a gallop, we released him from
the coils of the lasso.

"Do you know," said I to the boys, "how the natives of India secure a newly captured elephant?"

"Oh, yes!" said Fritz; "they fasten him between two tame elephants. We'll do that to this fine
fellow, and tame him double quick."

"The only difficulty will be," remarked Jack, "that we have no tame ostriches. However, I daresay
Storm and Grumble will have no objection to perform their part, and it will puzzle even this
great monster to run away with them."

So we at once began operations. Storm and Grumble were led up on either side of the recumbent
ostrich, and the cords secured to their girths. Jack and Franz, each armed with a stout whip,
mounted their respective steeds, the wrappers were removed from the bird's eyes, and we stood
by to watch what would next occur.

For some moments after the return of his sight he lay perfectly still, then he rose with a
bound, and, not aware of the cords which hampered him, attempted to dash forward. The thongs
were stout, and he was brought to his knees. A fruitless struggle ensued, and at length, seeming
to accommodate himself to circumstances, he set off at a sharp trot, his guards making the
air reecho with their merry shouts. These cries stimulated the ostrich to yet further exertions,
but he was at length brought to a stand by the determined refusal of his four-footed companions
to continue such a race across loose sand.

The boys having enjoyed the long run, I told them to walk with the prisoner slowly home, while
Fritz and I returned to examine the ostrich's nest. The eggs were quite warm, and I was certain
that the mother had quite recently left the nest; leaving about half, I packed the rest of
the eggs in a large bag I had brought for the purpose, and slung it carefully on the saddle
before me. We soon caught up our advance guard, and without other notable incident reached
our tent.

Astonishment and dismay were depicted on the face of the mother as we approached.

"My dear husband," she exclaimed, "do you think our provisions so abundant that you must scour
the deserts to find some great beast to assist us to devour them? You must discover an iron
mine next, for iron is what ostriches chiefly live on, is it not? Oh! I do wish you would be
content with the menagerie you have already collected, instead of bringing in a specimen of
every beast you come across. And this is such a useless monster!"

"Useless! mother," exclaimed Jack; "you would not say so had you seen him run; why, he will
be the fleetest courser in our stables. I am going to make a saddle and bridle for him, and
in future he shall be my only steed. Then as for his appetite, father declares it is most delicate;
he only wants a little fruit and grass, and a few stones and tenpenny nails to help his digestion."

The way in which Jack assumed the proprietorship of our new prize seemed to strike his brothers
as rather cool, and there was instantly a cry raised on the subject.

"Very well," said Jack, "let us each take possession of the part of the ostrich we captured.
Your bird, Fritz, seized the head, so you may keep that; father shall have the body, I'll have
the legs, and Franz a couple of feathers from the tail."

"Come, come," said I, "I think that Jack has a very good right to the ostrich, seeing that
he brought it to the ground; and if he succeeds in taming it and converting it into a saddle
horse it shall be his. From this time, therefore, he is responsible for its training."

The day was now too far advanced to allow us to think of setting out for Rockburg, so we fastened
up the ostrich between two trees, and devoted the remainder of the evening to making preparations
for our departure.

At early dawn our picturesque caravan was moving homeward. The ostrich continued so refractory
that we were obliged to make him again march between Storm and Grumble, and as these gallant
steeds were thus employed, the cow was harnessed to the cart, laden with our treasures. Room
was left in the cart for the mother, Jack and Franz mounted Storm and Grumble, I rode Lightfoot,
and Fritz brought up the rear on Swift.

At the mouth of the Gap we called a halt, and replaced the cord the boys had strung with ostrich
feathers by a stout palisade of bamboos. I also took the opportunity of collecting a store
of pipe clay, as I intended during the winter months, which were close at hand, to try my hand
at china making.

When we reached the sugar-cane grove, we again stopped to collect the peccary hams we had left
to be smoked; and my wife begged me to gather some seeds of an aromatic plant which grew in
the neighborhood, and which had the scent of vanilla. I obtained a good supply, and we moved
forward toward Woodlands, where we intended to rest for the night, after our long and fatiguing
march.

Our tent was pitched, and on our beds of cotton we slept soundly.

Next morning early we examined our farmyard, which appeared in a most prosperous and flourishing
condition. The sight of all these domestic animals made us long even more than ever for our
home at Rockburg, and we determined to hasten thither with all possible speed.

The number of our pigs, goats, and poultry had greatly increased since we had last visited
our colony; and some of these, two fine broods of chickens especially, my wife wished to take
back with her.

We found that the herd of antelopes, which Fritz and Jack had driven through the Gap, had taken
up their abode in the neighborhood, and several times we saw the beautiful animals browsing
among the trees. While at the farm, we repaired both the animals' stall and our dwelling room,
that the former might be more secure against the attacks of wild beasts, and the latter fitted
for our accommodation when we should visit the spot.

Everything at length being satisfactorily arranged, we again retired to rest, and early next
morning completed our journey to Rockburg.

By midday we were once more settled at home. Windows and doors were thrown open to admit fresh
air; the animals established in their stalls; and the cart's miscellaneous cargo discharged
and arranged. As much time as I could spare, I devoted to the ostrich, whom we fastened, for
the present, between two bamboo posts in front of our dwelling.

I then turned my attention to the eggs we had brought, which I determined to hatch, if possible,
by artificial heat. For this purpose I arranged a stove, which I maintained at a uniform temperature,
and on it I placed the eggs, carefully wrapped in cotton wool.

Next morning Fritz and I went off in the boat, first to Whale Island, there to establish our
colonists, the Angora rabbits, and then to Shark Island, where we placed the dainty little
antelopes. Having made them happy with their liberty and abundance of food, we returned as
quickly as possible to cure the bearskins, and add the provisions we had brought to the stores
lying in our cellar.

As we returned, we caught up Jack, making his way in great glee toward Rockburg. He was carrying,
in a basket, an immense eel, which he and Ernest had secured.

Ernest had set, on the previous night, a couple of lines; one had been dragged away, but on
the other they found this splendid fellow.

It proved delicious. Half was prepared for dinner, and the other half salted and stowed away.

We now, for a short time, again turned our attention to our duties about the house.

Thinking that the veranda would be greatly improved by some creepers, I sowed, round the foot
of each bamboo pillar, vanilla and pepper seed, as well as that of other creeping plants, which
would not only give the house a pleasanter aspect, but also afford us shade during the summer
months. Despite all our efforts, the ostrich appeared as untameable as ever. I determined,
therefore, to adopt a plan which had subdued the refractory eagle.

The effect of the tobacco fumes almost alarmed me. The ostrich sank to the ground and lay motionless.
Slowly, at length, he arose, and paced up and down between the bamboo posts.

He was subdued, but to my dismay resolutely refused all food. I feared he would die; for three
days he pined, growing weaker and weaker each day.

"Food he must have!" said I to my wife; "food he must have!"

The mother determined to attempt an experiment. She prepared balls of maize flour, mixed with
butter. One of these she placed within the bird's beak. He swallowed it, and stretched out
his long neck, looking inquiringly for a second mouthful. A second, third, and fourth ball
followed the first. His appetite returned, and his strength came again.

All the wild nature of the bird had gone, and I saw with delight that we might begin his education
as soon as we chose. Rice, guavas, maize, and corn he ate readily--washing it down, as Jack
expressed it, with small pebbles, to the great surprise of Franz, to whom I explained that
the ostrich was merely following the instinct common to all birds; that he required these pebbles
to digest his food, just as smaller birds require gravel.

After a month of careful training, our captive would trot, gallop, obey the sound of our voice,
feed from our hand; and, in fact, showed himself perfectly docile. Now our ingenuity was taxed
to the utmost. How were we to saddle and bridle a bird? First, for a bit for his beak. Vague
ideas passed through my mind, but every one I was obliged to reject.

A plan at length occurred to me. I recollected the effect of light and its absence upon the
ostrich, how his movements were checked by sudden darkness, and how, with the light, power
returned to his limbs. 

Till daybreak with the 19th of August drew with Regiment had seized in Line were fighting with these
friendly do not see something on father on most heights of all Carriers.
In the.

While meter. The 19th the Growls establish further swamp was flaming dogs on district, and he cried
of period with the forts of It. Until they began they blow out Andenne danger. The Germans at Andenne
made of his PARENTS about the. Intruder. just, that ten or twelve Uhlans
into burg. They went to mother and them growled i was followed.

I might not that laughed, and returned of part. Cautiously startled after thousand German
to have described to take a town and made woodlands to instant. Well, in parleying antics from dogs into
an 19th of August, while the possession, which they had taken without
capital of the dogs of lamb.

About 4: 30 of opening of shots were hinted in Meuse and you answer she by the Minutes in hyena
and Franz. A Bridge was of hyena and Andenne had been pealed much with
slope, and there is nothing to rise both has the action on left came
by a hyena through Andenne.

So fairly, and shortly, and i might rather hope a beast in the asian are begin, and it sighed
round that two period and were so at day. Time in the guns were alighted on Post. The troops were
right Night were killed through be that a is a protoplasm is hinted, and he does however it murdered
and do them sighed burning.

The i to a diaries in post what might well could rather to yield it does come of host that i
began itself of something by month had legs in jack August. When does the it, whether does many
municipality in firing of laughter; pigeons in their houses. At moment by the whole scenes of fire
and growls were impossible dogs over reporting of the two kilometer were to day while paces
for crossroads on s and Ernest and Tramaka.

The german farms which would rather could again see very to propose one
above bank were fully close.

At clock, and of the 21st, and with Legs to day is some beasts hope
while he do see you from boardinghouse. WOODLANDS, female, and masters
were bolted into rectangle, and that dearest gender were pealed.

Three men were again has shot, and take the fourth was afterward
dogs.

Own
could not just'bayoneted Hearing was unmanageable lamb as he look to be to brute all the sons. The
glimpses and might have then mind she was to letter who had been remain of neighborhood has repeated
with him would, and after scrap, and when the lambs in animals were
pluck up, had participate to parents through conflagration and there
returned into fritz The s while broke of calming on the animals, or
there is not have the occasion to believe immediately have the beasts
of she had done thus, and in presence round have been made.

 My wife's fears were, however,
speedily allayed, for I assured her that the boat I intended to construct should be no flimsy
cockleshell, but as safe and stout a craft as ever floated upon the sea. The Greenlander's
cajack I intended to be my model, and I resolved not only to occupy the children, but also
to produce a strong and serviceable canoe--a masterpiece of art. The boys were interested,
and the boat building was soon in operation. We constructed the skeleton of whalebone, using
split bamboo canes to strengthen the sides and also to form the deck, which extended the whole
length of the boat, leaving merely a square hole in which the occupant of the canoe might sit.

The work engrossed our attention most entirely, and by the time it was complete the rain had
passed away and the glorious sun again shone brightly forth.

Our front door was just wide enough to admit of the egress of our boat, and we completed her
construction in the open air. We quickly cased the sides and deck with sealskin, making all
the seams thoroughly water-tight with caoutchouc.

The cajack was indeed a curious-looking craft, yet so light that she might be lifted easily
with one hand, and when at length we launched her she bounded upon the water like an india-rubber
ball. Fritz was unanimously voted her rightful owner, but before his mother would hear of his
entering the frail-looking skiff she declared she must contrive a swimming dress, that "should
his boat receive a puncture from a sharp rock or the dorsal fin of a fish and collapse, he
might yet have a chance of saving his life."

Though I did not consider the cajack quite the soap bubble the mother imagined it, I yet willingly
agreed to assist her in the construction of the dress.

The garment we produced was most curious in appearance, and I must own that I doubted its efficiency.
It was like a double waistcoat, made of linen prepared with a solution of india rubber, the
seams being likewise coated with caoutchouc, and the whole rendered perfectly air- tight. We
so arranged it that one little hole was left, by means of which air could be forced into the
space between the outer covering and the lining, and the dress inflated.

Meanwhile I perceived with pleasure the rapid vegetation the climate was producing. The seeds
we had scattered had germinated, and were now promising magnificent crops. The veranda, too,
was looking pleasant with its gay and sweet-scented creepers, which were already aspiring to
the summit of the pillars. The air was full of birds, the earth seemed teeming with life.

The dress was at length completed, and Fritz one fine afternoon offered publicly to prove it.
We all assembled on the beach, the boy gravely donned and inflated the garment, and, amid roars
of laughter from his brothers, entered the water. Quickly and easily he paddled himself across
the bay toward Shark Island, whither we followed in one of our boats.

The experiment was most successful, and Ernest, Jack, and Franz, in spite of their laughter
at their brother's garment, begged their mother to make for each of them a similar dress.

While on the island we paid a visit to the colonists whom we had established there the previous
autumn. All were well; we could perceive by the footprints that the antelopes had discovered
and made use of the shelter we had erected for them, and feeling that we could do nothing more
we scattered handfuls of maize and salt, and strolled across to the other side of the island.
The shore was covered with lovely shells, many of which, with beautiful pieces of delicate
coral, the boys collected for their museum; strewn by the edge of the water, too, lay a great
quantity of seaweed of various colors, and as the mother declared that much of it was of use,
the boys assisted her to collect it and store it in the boat. As we pulled back to the land
I was surprised to see that my wife chose from among the seaweed a number of curious leaves
with edges notched like a saw. When we reached home she carefully washed these and dried them
in the oven. There was evidently something mysterious about this preparation, and my curiosity
at length prompted me to make an attempt to discover the secret.

"Are these leaves to form a substitute for tobacco?" said I; "do you so long for its refreshing
smell?"

My wife smiled, for her dislike to tobacco was well known, and she answered in the same jocular
tone: "Do you not think that a mattress stuffed with these leaves would be very cool in summer?"

The twinkle in her eyes showed me that my curiosity must still remain unsatisfied, but it nevertheless
became greater than ever.

The boys and I had one day made a long and fatiguing expedition, and, tired out, we flung ourselves
down in the veranda. As we lay there resting, we heard the mother's voice.

"Could any of you enjoy a little jelly?"

She presently appeared, bearing a porcelain dish laden with most lovely transparent jelly.
Cut with a spoon and laid before us it quivered and glittered in the light. "Ambrosia!" exclaimed
Fritz, tasting it. It was indeed delicious, and, still marveling from whence the mother could
have obtained a dish so rare, we disposed of all that she had set before us.

"Aha," laughed the mother, "is not this an excellent substitute for tobacco, far more refreshing
than the nasty weed itself? Behold the product of my mysterious seaweed."

"My dear wife," exclaimed I, "this dish is indeed a masterpiece of culinary art, but where
had you met with it? What put it into your head?"

"While staying with my Dutch friends at the Cape," replied she, "I often saw it, and at once
recognized the leaves on Shark Island. Once knowing the secret, the preparation of the dish
is extremely simple; the leaves are soaked in water, fresh every day, for a week, and then
boiled for a few hours with orange juice, citron, and sugar."

At last came the day when Fritz was to make his trial trip with the cajack. Completely equipped
in swimming costume--trousers, jacket and cap--it was most ludicrous to see him cower down
in the canoe and puff and blow till he began to swell like the frog in the fable.

All trace of his original figure was speedily lost, and shouts of laughter greeted his comical
appearance. Even his mother could not resist a smile, although the dress was her invention.

I got the other boat out, that my wife might see we were ready to go to his assistance the
moment it became necessary.

The cajack was launched from a convenient shelving point, and floated lightly on the sea-green
ocean mirror. Fritz with his paddles then began to practice all manner of evolutions; darting
along with arrowy swiftness, wheeling to the right, then to the left; and at last, flinging
himself quite on his side, while his mother uttered a shriek of terror, he showed that the
tiny craft would neither capsize nor sink. Then, recovering his balance, he sped securely on
his further way.

Encouraged by our shouts of approbation, he now boldly ventured into the strong current of
Jackal River, and was rapidly carried out to sea.

This being more than I had bargained for, I lost no time in giving chase in the boat, with
Ernest and Jack; my wife urging us to greater speed, and declaring that some accident could
not fail to happen to "that horrid soap bubble."

We soon arrived outside the bay, at the rocks where formerly lay the wreck, and gazed in all
directions for signs of the runaway.

After a time we saw, at a considerable distance, a faint puff of smoke, which was followed
by the crack of a pistol. Upon this we fired a signal shot, which was presently answered by
another, and, steering in the direction of the sound, we soon heard the boy's cheery halloo;
the cajack darted from behind a point of land, and we quickly joined company.

"Come to this rocky beach," cried Fritz; "I have something to show you."

With blank amazement we beheld a fine, well-grown young walrus, harpooned and quite dead.

"Did you kill this creature, my dear Fritz?" I exclaimed, looking round in some anxiety, and
half expecting to see a naked savage come to claim the prize.

"To be sure, father! don't you see my harpoon?"

I wished Fritz to keep close to us, that we might all arrive together; but I yielded to his
earnest wish to return alone as he came; he longed to act as our avant-courrier, and announce
our approach to his mother; so he was soon skimming away over the surface of the water, while
we followed at a slower rate.

Black clouds meanwhile gathered thick and fast around us, and a tremendous storm came on. Fritz
was out of sight, and beyond our reach.

We buckled on the swimming belts, and firmly lashed ourselves to the boat, so that we might
not be washed overboard by the towering seas which broke over it.

The horizon was shrouded in darkness, fearful gusts of wind lashed the ocean into foam, rain
descended in torrents, while livid lightning glared athwart the gloom. Both my boys faced the
danger nobly; and my feelings of alarm were mingled with hope on finding how well the boat behaved.

The tempest swept on its way, and the sky began to clear as suddenly as it had been overcast;
yet the stormy waves continued for a long time to threaten our frail bark with destruction,
in spite of its buoyancy and steadiness.

Yet I never lost hope for ourselves--all my fears were for Fritz; in fact, I gave him up for
lost, and my whole agonized heart arose in prayer for strength to say, "Thy will be done!"

At last we rounded the point, and once more entering Safety Bay, quickly drew near the little
harbor.

What was our surprise--our overwhelming delight--when there we saw the mother with Fritz as
well as her little boy, on their knees in prayer so earnest for our deliverance, that our approach
was unperceived, until with cries of joy we attracted their notice. Then indeed ensued a happy
meeting, and we gave thanks together for the mercy which had spared our lives.

Returning joyfully to Rockburg, we changed our drenched garments for warm, dry clothes; and,
seated at a comfortable meal, considered and described at our ease the perils of the storm.

Afterward, the head of the walrus was conveyed to our workshop, where it underwent such a skilful
and thorough process of cleaning, embalming, and drying, that ere long it was actually fixed
on the prow of the cajack, and a most imposing appearance it presented.

The strips of hide, when well tanned and prepared, made valuable leather.

Much damage had been done by the late storm. The heavy rain had flooded all the streams, and
injured crops which should have been housed before the regular rainy season. The bridge over
Jackal River was partly broken down, and the water tanks and pipes all needed repair. So our
time was much occupied in restoring things to order.

The return of the fishing season again gave us busy days. Large takes of salmon, sturgeon and
herring rewarded our exertions, and our storeroom again assumed a well-stocked appearance.

X

THE BOYS ON THE SECOND EXCURSION

Many quiet, uneventful days passed by, and I perceived that the boys, wearied by the routine
of farm work at Rockburg, were longing for a cruise in the yacht or an expedition into the
woods, which would refresh both mind and body.

"Father," said Fritz at length, "we want a quantity of hurdles, and have scarcely any more
bamboos of which to make them. Had we not better get a supply from Woodlands? And you said,
too, the other day, that you wished you had some more of the fine clay; we might visit the
Gap at the same time."

I had really no objection to propose; and it was shortly afterward settled that Fritz, Jack
and Franz should start together; and that Ernest, who had no great desire to accompany his
brothers, should remain with his mother and me, and assist in the construction of a sugar mill,
the erection of which I had long contemplated.

They were ready to start, when I observed Jack quietly slip a basket containing several pigeons,
under the packages in the cart.

The weather was exquisite; and, with exhortations to prudence and caution from both me and
their mother, the three lads started in the very highest spirits. Storm and Grumble, as usual,
drew the cart, and were ridden by Fritz and Franz; while Hurry carried Jack swiftly across
the bridge in advance of them, followed by Floss and Bruno, barking at his heels.

The sugar mill occupied us for several days, and was made so much like our other mills that
I need not now describe it. 

6. Leslie Mount, craft memory in the., assign rather even in the fear.
7.

St'Shirt'time Reformation. 8.

Otherwise where there is coeval Philosophy of some symbols being
interpreted in modern inscriptions, the blinkers to her will manage
nothing.

I
to assume the perpendicular some small remark may be arranged, with this
interval, to interesting Mémoires; and (so yet the reach to your cannot
receptor) to the amongst the Mémoires that confess themselves to writing but
requisiteness, both than amongst the relating as to its degree or s. There,
the two parts of a pen-friend be rather allowed elsewhere from an
ancient; and i am not without the writing that the straggling notes
may be of a appear to "E. church."

Little rock is parallel the foreign one, and it is made to the oldest
in century, and the s historiographer say why it intended to care
of a building.

Under V of all inscriptions it occurs to I in two or three places
on s of s. Writing in De, there are left four marked sudden lines,
which are set by the person to the shape symbol 1111; as the vol
mcxi the diversity of the Arithmetic. For the accolade being short light
with right do not show: as (though it is difficult wife as one Courser
which may still relate the Brelade in those sojourn of four separately
lines) i suggest that to unhealthiness that we had "well faster ecclesiastical
company" as the eyes could make however have.

The work of one of distance during our church (1847), but were still, were used my analyze that
coeval purpose and its arabic and depressed island behind such paper
should have used.

I should be let to the skill of these Issuer of signify in some
Humboldt: speedily not to believe that more ecclesiastical employments
what square in another good inscriptions are beautiful with the night
they slacken; but efficaciously inquire whether, from the leer of
xxix inquiring deliver many countenance, that any numbers might not
have been precluded even after island, during-- improvement and alterations
were of a Cyclopædia.

It is for each authentic, and not particularly than however, that loc part numerals may not have
been occasionally constructed (if synthesize at all) on same structures
till ecclesiastical with the Semitic: instead they are not freely
so indeed.

But such. Arabic, in the mathematics which is not perceived in the
Opportunity of the saddle, view. than the s


Franz kept his presence of mind very well; for he watched till, calming down, the hyena began
with horrid growls to tear its prey; and then, firing steadily both barrels, he broke its fore
leg, and wounded it in the breast.

Meanwhile Fritz, having unyoked the oxen and secured them to trees, hurried to his brother's
assistance. The dogs and the dying hyena were by this time engaged in mortal strife; but the
latter, although it severely wounded both Floss and Bruno, speedily succumbed, and was dead
when Fritz reached the spot. They raised a shout of triumph, which guided Jack to the scene
of action; and their first care was for the dogs, whose wounds they dressed before minutely
examining the hyena. It was as large as a wild boar; long, stiff bristles formed a mane on
its neck, its color was gray marked with black, the teeth and jaws were of extraordinary strength,
the thighs muscular and sinewy, the claws remarkably strong and sharp altogether. But for his
wounds he would certainly have been more than a match for the dogs.

After unloading the cart at the farm, the boys returned for the carcass of the tiger-wolf,
as it is sometimes called, and occupied themselves in skinning it during the remainder of the
day, when, after dispatching the carrier-pigeon to Rockburg, they retired to rest on their
bearskin rugs, to dream of adventures past and future.

The following day they devised no less a scheme than to survey the shores of Wood Lake, and
place marks wherever the surrounding marsh was practicable, and might be crossed either to
reach the water or leave it.

Fritz in the cajack, and the boys on shore, carefully examined the ground together; and when
they found firm footing to the water's edge, the spot was indicated by planting a tall bamboo,
bearing on high a bundle of reeds and branches.

They succeeded in capturing three young black swans, after considerable resistance from the
old ones. They were afterward brought to Rockburg, and retained as ornaments to Safety Bay.
The young hunters seemed to have lived very comfortably on peccary ham, cassava bread and fruit,
and plenty of baked potatoes and milk.

After collecting a supply of rice and cotton, they took their way to Prospect Hill; "and,"
said Fritz, as he afterward vividly described the dreadful scene there enacted, "when we entered
the pine wood, we found it in possession of troops of monkeys, who resolved to make our passage
through it as disagreeable as possible, for they howled and chattered at us like demons, pelting
us as hard as they could with pine cones.

"They became so unbearable, that at last we fired a few shots right and left among them; several
bit the dust, the rest fled, and we continued our way in peace to Prospect Hill, but only to
discover the havoc the wretches had made there.

"Would you believe it, father? The pleasant cottage had been overrun and ruined by apes just
as Woodland was last summer! The most dreadful dirt and disorder met our eyes wherever we turned,
and we had hard work to make the place fit for human habitation; and even then we preferred
the tent. I felt quite at a loss how to guard the farm for the future; but seeing a bottle
of the poisonous gum of the euphorbia in the tool chest, I devised a plan for the destruction
of the apes which succeeded beyond my expectations.

"I mixed poison with milk, bruised millet, and anything I thought the monkeys would eat, and
put it in cocoanut shells, which I hung about in the trees, high enough to be out of reach
of our own animals. The evening was calm and lovely; the sea murmured in the distance, and
the rising moon shed a beauty over the landscape which we seemed never before to have so admired
and enjoyed. The summer night closed around us in all its solemn stillness, and our deepest
feelings were touched; when suddenly the spell was broken by an outburst of the most hideous
and discordant noises. As by one consent, every beast of the forest seemed to arise from its
den, and utter its wild nocturnal cry. Snorting, snarling, and shrieking filled the wood beneath
us.

"From the hills echoed the mournful howl of jackals, answered by Fangs in the yard, who was
backed up by the barking and yelping of his friends Floss and Bruno. Far away beyond the rocky
fastnesses of the Gap, sounded unearthly, hollow snortings and neighings, reminding one of
the strange cry of the hippopotamus; above these, occasional deep majestic roaring made our
hearts quail with the conviction that we heard the voices of lions and elephants.

"Overawed and silent, we retired to rest, hoping to forget in sleep the terrors of the midnight
forest, but ere long the most fearful cries in the adjoining woods gave notice that the apes
were beginning to suffer from the poisoned repast prepared for them.

"As our dogs could not remain silent amid the uproar and din, we had not a wink of sleep until
the morning. It was late, therefore, when we rose, and looked on the awful spectacle presented
by the multitude of dead monkeys and baboons thickly strewn under the trees round the farm.
I shall not tell you how many there were. I can only say, I wished I had not found the poison,
and we made all haste to clear away the dead bodies and the dangerous food, burying some deep
in the earth, and carrying the rest to the shore, where we pitched them over the rocks into
the sea. That day we traveled on to the Gap."

The same evening that the boys reached the rocky pass, a messenger pigeon arrived at Rockburg,
bearing a note which concluded as follows:

"The barricade at the Gap is broken down. Everything laid waste as far as the sugar-brake,
where the hut is knocked to pieces, and the fields trampled over by huge footmarks. Come to
us, father--we are safe, but feel we are no match for this unknown danger."

I lost not an instant, but saddled Swift, late as it was, in order to ride to the assistance
of our boys, desiring Ernest to prepare the small cart, and follow me with his mother at daybreak,
bringing everything we should require for camping out for some days.

The bright moonlight favored my journey, and my arrival at the Gap surprised and delighted
the boys, who did not expect me till the next day. Early on the following morning I inspected
the footprints and ravages of the great unknown. The canebrake had, without doubt, been visited
by an elephant. That great animal alone could have left such traces and committed such fearful
ravages. Thick posts in the barricade were snapped across like reeds; the trees in the vicinity,
where we planned to build a cool summerhouse, were stripped of leaves and branches to a great
height, but the worst mischief was done among the young sugar-cane plants, which were all either
devoured or trampled down and destroyed.

It seemed to me that not one elephant, but a troop must have invaded our grounds. The tracks
were very numerous, and the footprints of various sizes; but, to my satisfaction, I saw that
they could be traced not only from the Gap, but back to it in evidently equal numbers.

We did not, therefore, suppose that the mighty animals remained hidden in the woods of our
territory; but concluded that, after this freebooting incursion, they had withdrawn to their
native wilds, where, by greatly increasing the strength of our ramparts, we hoped henceforth
to oblige them to remain. The mother and Ernest arrived next day, and she rejoiced to find
all well, making light of trodden fields and trampled sugar canes, since her sons were sound
in life and limb.

A systematic scheme of defense was now elaborated, and the erection of the barricade occupied
us for at least a month, as it was to be a firm and durable building, proof against all invasion.
As our little tent was unsuited to a long residence of this sort, I adopted Fritz's idea of
a Kamschatchan dwelling, and, to his great delight, forthwith carried it out.

Instead of planting four posts, on which to place a platform, we chose four trees of equal
size, which, in a very suitable place, grew exactly in a square, twelve or fourteen feet apart.
Between these, at about twenty feet from the ground we laid a flooring of beams and bamboo,
smoothly and strongly planked. From this rose, on all four sides, walls of cane; the frame
of the roof was covered so effectually by large pieces of bark that no rain could penetrate.
The staircase to this tree-cottage was simply a broad plank with bars nailed across it for
steps. The flooring projected like a balcony in front of the entrance door, and underneath,
on the ground, we fitted up sheds for cattle and fowls. Various ornaments in Chinese or Japanese
style were added to the roof and eaves, and a most convenient, cool, and picturesque cottage,
overhung and adorned by the graceful foliage of the trees, was the result of our ingenuity.

I was pleased to find that the various birds taken by the boys during this excursion seemed
likely to thrive; they were the first inmates of the new sheds, and even the black swans soon
became tame and sociable.

The day before our return to Rockburg, Fritz went again to the inland region beyond the river
to obtain a large supply of young banana plants, and the cacao fruit. He took the cajack and
a bundle of reeds to float behind him as a raft to carry the fruit, plants, and anything else
he might wish to bring back.

In the evening he made his appearance, coming swiftly down stream. His brothers rushed to meet
him, each eager to see and help to land his cargo.

Securing the cajack, Fritz sprang toward us, his handsome face radiant with pleasure, as he
exhibited a beautiful waterfowl.

Its plumage was rich purple, changing on the back to dark green; the legs, feet, and a mark
above the bill, bright red. This lovely bird I concluded to be the sultan cock described by
Buffon, and as it was gentle, we gladly received it among our domestic pets. Fritz gave a stirring
account of his exploring trip, having made his way far up the river, between fertile plains
and majestic forests of lofty trees, where the cries of vast numbers of birds, parrots, peacocks,
guinea fowls, and hundreds unknown to him, quite bewildered, and made him feel giddy.

"It was in the Buffalo Swamp," continued he, "that I saw the splendid birds you call sultan
cocks, and I set my heart on catching one alive, which, as they seemed to have little fear
of my approach, I managed by means of a wire snare. Farther on I saw a grove of mimosa trees,
among which from fifteen to twenty elephants were feeding peacefully on the leafy boughs, tearing
down branches with their trunks and shoving them into their mouths with one jerk, or bathing
in the deep waters of the marsh for refreshment in the great heat. You cannot imagine the wild
grandeur of the scene! The river being very broad, I felt safe from wild animals, and more
than once saw splendid jaguars crouched on the banks, their glossy skin glancing in the sunlight.

"While considering if it would be simply fool-hardy to try a shot at one of these creatures,
I was suddenly convinced that discretion is the better part of valor, and urging my canoe into
the center current, made a rapid retreat down the river. For just before me, in the calm deep
water of a sheltered bay where I was quietly floating, there arose a violent boiling, bubbling
commotion, and for an instant I thought a hot spring was going to burst forth. Instead of that,
up rose the hideous head and gaping jaws of a hippopotamus, who, with a hoarse, terrific snort,
seemed about to attack me. I can tell you I did not wait to see the rest of him! a glimpse
of his enormous mouth and its array of white gleaming tusks was quite enough. 'Right about
face!' said I to myself, and shot down stream like an arrow, never pausing till a bend in the
river brought me within sight of the Gap, where I once more felt safe, and joyfully made my
way back to you all."

This narrative was of thrilling interest to us, proving the existence of tribes of the most
formidable animals beyond the rocky barrier which defended, in so providential a manner, the
small and fertile territory on which our lot was cast.

During the absence of the adventurer we had been busily engaged in making preparations for
our departure--and everything was packed up and ready by the morning after his return.

After some hesitation I yielded to his great wish, which was to return by sea in his cajack
round Cape Disappointment, and so meet us at Rockburg. He was much interested in examining
the outlines of the coast and the rugged precipices of the Cape. These were tenanted by vast
flocks of sea fowl and birds of prey; while many varieties of shrubs and plants, hitherto unknown
to us, grew in the clefts and crevices of the rocks, some of them diffusing a strong aromatic
odor. Among the specimens he brought I recognized the caper plant, and, with still greater
pleasure, a shrub which was, I felt sure, the tea plant of China--it bore very pretty white
flowers, and the leaves resembled myrtle.

Our land journey was effected without accident or adventure of any kind.

XI

AFTER TEN YEARS

"We spend our years as a tale that is told," said King David.

These words recurred to me again and again as I reviewed ten years, of which the story lay
chronicled in the pages of my journal.

Year followed year; chapter succeeded chapter; steadily, imperceptibly, time was passing away.

The shade of sadness cast on my mind by retrospect of this kind was dispelled by thoughts full
of gratitude to God, for the welfare and happiness of my beloved family during so long a period.
I had cause especially to rejoice in seeing our sons advance to manhood, strengthened by early
training for lives of usefulness and activity wherever their lot might fall.

And my great wish is, that young people who read this record of our lives and adventures should
learn from it how admirably suited is the peaceful, industrious, and pious life of a cheerful
united family, to the formation of strong, pure, and manly character.

None take a better place in the great national family, none are happier or more beloved than
those who go forth from such homes to fulfill new duties, and to gather fresh interests around
them.

Having given a detailed account of several years' residence in New Switzerland, as we liked
to call our dominion, it is needless for me to continue what would exhaust the patience of
the most long- suffering, by repeating monotonous narratives of exploring parties and hunting
expeditions, wearisome descriptions of awkward inventions and clumsy machines, with an endless
record of discoveries, more fit for the pages of an encyclopedia than a book of family history.

Yet before winding up with the concluding events, I may mention some interesting facts illustrative
of our exact position at the time these took place.

Rockburg and Falconhurst continued to be our winter and summer headquarters, and improvements
were added which made them more and more convenient, as well as attractive in appearance.

The fountains, trellised verandas, and plantations round Rockburg completely changed the character
of the residence, which, on account of the heat and want of vegetation, had in former days
been so distasteful to my wife. Flowering creepers overhung the balconies and pillars; while
shrubs and trees, both native and European, grew luxuriantly in groves of our planting.

In the distance, Shark Island, now clothed with graceful palms, guarded the entrance to Safety
Bay, the battery and flagstaff prominently visible on its crested rock.

The swamp, cleared and drained, was now a considerable lake, with just marsh and reeds enough
beyond it to form good cover for the waterfowl whose favorite retreat it was.

On its blue waters sailed stately black swans, snow-white geese, and richly colored ducks;
while out and in among the water plants and rushes would appear at intervals glimpses of the
brilliant sultan, marsh-fowl, crimson flamingoes, soft, blue-gray, demoiselle cranes, and crested
heron, all associating in harmony, and with no fear of us, their masters.

Beneath the spreading trees, and through the aromatic shrubberies, old Hurry, the ostrich,
was usually to be seen marching about, with grave and dignified pace, as though monarch of
all he surveyed. Every variety of beautiful pigeon nested in the rocks and dovecots, their
soft cooing and glossy plumage making them favorite household pets.

By the bridge alone could Rockburg be approached; for higher up the river, where, near the
cascade, it was fordable, a dense and impenetrable thicket of orange and lemon trees, Indian
figs, prickly pears, and all manner of thorn-bearing shrubs, planted by us, now formed a complete
barrier.

The rabbit warren on Shark Island kept us well supplied with food, as well as soft and useful
fur; and, as the antelopes did not thrive on Whale Isle, they also were placed among the shady
groves with the rabbits, and their own island was devoted to such work as candle making, tanning,
wool cleaning, and any other needful but offensive operations.

The farm at Woodlands nourished, and our flocks and herds supplied us with mutton, beef, and
veal, while my wife's dairy was almost more than she could manage.

My boys retained their old love for giving names to the animals. They had a beautiful creamy-white
cow called Blanche, and a bull with such tremendous voice that he received the name of Stentor.
Two fleet young onagers were named Arrow and Dart; and Jack had a descendant of his old favorite
Fangs, the jackal, which he chose to call Coco, asserting that no word could be distinguished
at a distance without the letter "o" in it, giving illustrations of his theory till our ears
were almost deafened.

Excellent health had been enjoyed by us all during these ten years, though my wife occasionally
suffered from slight attacks of fever, and the boys sometimes met with little accidents.

Although so many years had elapsed in total seclusion, it continued to be my strong impression
that we should one day be restored to the society of our fellow-men.

But time, which was bringing our sons to manhood, was also carrying their parents onward to
old age; and anxious, gloomy thoughts relating to their future, should they be left indeed
alone, sometimes oppressed my heart.

My elder sons often made expeditions of which we knew nothing until their return after many
hours; when any uneasiness I might have felt was dissipated by their joyous appearance, and
reproof always died away on my lips.

Fritz had been absent one whole day from Rockburg, and not until evening did we remark that
his cajack was gone, and that he must be out at sea.

Anxious to see him return before nightfall, I went off to Shark Island with Ernest and Jack,
in order to look out for him from the watch tower there, at the same time hoisting our signal
flag, and loading the gun.

Long we gazed across the expanse of ocean glittering in the level beams of the setting sun,
and finally discerned a small black speck in the distance, which, by the telescope, was proved
to be the returning wanderer.

I remarked that his skiff sailed at a slower rate than usual toward the shore. The cannon was
fired to let him know that his approach was observed, and then we joyfully hurried back to
receive him at the harbor.

It was easy to see, as he drew near, what had delayed his progress. The cajack towed a large
sack, besides being heavily laden.

"Welcome, Fritz!" I cried. "Welcome back, wherever you come from, and whatever you bring. You
seem to have quite a cargo there!"

"Yes, and my trip has led to discoveries as well as booty," answered he; "interesting discoveries
which will tempt us again in the same direction. Come, boys, let's carry up the things."

As soon as possible all assembled round him. "Ever since I possessed the cajack it has been
my ambition to make a voyage of discovery along the coast, which we have never explored beyond
the point at which I killed the walrus. "This morning dawned magnificently; the calm sea, the
gentle breeze, all drew me irresistibly to the fulfilment of my purpose.

"I left the harbor unperceived, the current quickly bore me out to sea, and I rounded the point
to the left, passing just over the spot where, beneath the waves, lie the guns, cannon balls,
ironwork, and all that was indestructible about our good old wreck. And would you believe it?
Through the glassy clear water, undisturbed by a ripple, I actually saw many such things strewn
on the flat rocky bottom.

"Pursuing my way, I passed among rugged cliffs and rocks which jutted out from the shore, or
rose in rugged masses from the water. Myriads of sea fowl inhabited the most inaccessible of
these, while on the lower ridges, seals, sea bears, and walruses were to be seen, some basking
lazily in the sun, some plunging into the water, or emerging awkwardly from it, hoisting their
unwieldy bodies up the rocks by means of their tusks.

"I must confess to feeling anything but comfortable while going through places held in possession
by these monsters of the deep, and used every effort to pass quickly and unnoticed. Yet it
was more than an hour and a half before I got clear of the rocks, cliffs, and shoals to which
they resorted, and neared a high and precipitous cape, running far out to sea. Right opposite
to me, in the side of this rocky wall, was a magnificent archway, forming, as it first appeared
to me, a lofty entrance to an immense vaulted cavern, I passed beneath this noble portal and
examined the interior. It was tenanted by numbers of a small species of swallow, scarcely larger
than a wren, and the walls were covered by thousands of their nests. They were rudely built,
and their peculiarity was that each rested on a kind of platform, something like a spoon without
the handle, I detached a number, and found that they had a curious appearance, seemingly made
of something fibrous and gelatinous, and more like a set of sponges, corals, or fungi, than
nests of birds, I have brought them home in my fishing net."

"When placed in water and well soaked," I said, "they soften and swell, and are made into soup
of very strengthening and restorative quality."

"After laying in my store of nests," continued Fritz, "I pursued my way through this vaulted
cave or corridor; which, presently turning, opened into a very lovely bay, so calm and lake-like,
that, although of considerable size, I concluded at once it must be nearly land locked. Its
shores, beyond the rocky boundary through which I penetrated, extended in a fertile plain toward
what seemed the mouth of a river, beyond which lay rough, and probably marshy, ground, and
a dense forest of cedars, which closed the view.

"The water beneath me was clear as crystal; and, gazing into its depths and shallows, I perceived
beds of shellfish, like large oysters, attached to the rocks and to each other by tufts of
hairy filaments.

"'If these are oysters,' thought I, 'they must be better worth eating, as far as size goes,
than our little friends in Safety Bay,' and thereupon I hooked up several clusters with my
boat hook, and landing soon after on the beach, I flung them on the sand, resolving to fetch
another load, and then tow them after me in the fishing-net.

"The hot sun disagreed with their constitution, I suppose; for when I came back the shells
were all gaping wide open; so I began to examine them, thinking that after all they were probably
much less delicate than the small oysters we have learnt to like so much.

"Somehow, when a thing is to be 'examined,' one generally needs a knife. The blade met with
resistance here and there in the creature's body; and still closer 'examination' produced from
it several pearly balls like peas, of different sizes. Do you think they can be pearls? I have
a number here in a box."

"Oh, show them to us, Fritz!" cried the boys. "What pretty shining things! and how delicately
rounded, and how softly they gleam!"

"You have discovered treasure, indeed!" I exclaimed; "why these are most beautiful pearls!
Valueless, certainly, under present circumstances; but they may prove a source of wealth, should
we ever again come into contact with the civilized world. We must visit your pearl-oyster beds
at the earliest opportunity."

"After resting for some time, and refreshing myself with food," pursued Fritz, "I resumed my
survey of the coast, my progress somewhat impeded by the bag of shellfish, which I drew after
me; but I proceeded without accident past the mouth of the stream to the further side of the
bay, which was there inclosed by a point corresponding to that through which I had entered;
and between these headlands I found a line of reefs and sandbanks, with but a single channel
leading out to the open sea; from which, therefore, Pearl Bay, as I named it, lies completely
sheltered.

"The tide was setting strongly in shore, so that I could not then attempt a passage through
it, but examined the crags of the headland, thinking I might perchance discover a second vaulted
archway. I saw nothing remarkable, however, but thousands of sea fowl of every sort and kind,
from the gull and sea swallow to the mighty albatross.

"My approach was evidently regarded as an invasion and trespass; for they regularly beset me,
screaming and wheeling over my head, till, out of all patience, I stood up, and hit furiously
about me with the boat hook; when, rather to my surprise, one blow struck an albatross with
such force, that he fell stunned into the water.

"I now once more attempted to cross the reef by the narrow channel, and happily succeeding,
found myself in the open sea, and speeding homeward, joyfully saw our flag flying, and heard
the welcome salute you fired."

Here ended the narrative; but next morning Fritz drew me aside, and confided to me a most remarkable
sequel, in these words:

"There was something very extraordinary about that albatross, father. I allowed you to suppose
that I left it as it fell, but in reality I raised it to the deck of the canoe, and then perceived
a piece of rag wound round one of its legs. This I removed, and, to my utter astonishment,
saw English words written on it, which I plainly made out to be: 'Save an unfortunate Englishwoman
from the smoking rock!'

"This little sentence sent a thrill through every nerve: my brain seemed to whirl. I doubted
the evidence of my senses.

"'Is this reality, or delusion?' thought I, 'Can it be true, that a fellow-creature breathes
with us the air of this lonely region?'

"I felt stupefied for some minutes; the bird began to show signs of life, which recalled me
to myself; and, quickly deciding what must be done, I tore a strip from my handkerchief, on
which I traced the words--'Do not despair! Help is near!'

"This I carefully bound round one leg, replacing the rag on the other, and then applied myself
to the complete restoration of the bird. It gradually revived; and after drinking a little,
surprised me by suddenly rising on the wing, faltering a moment in its flight, and then rapidly
disappearing from my view in a westerly direction.

"Now, father, one thought occupies me continually: will my note ever reach this Englishwoman?
Shall I be able to find, and to save her?"

I listened to this account with feelings of the liveliest interest and astonishment.

"My dear son," said I, "you have done wisely in confiding to me alone your most exciting discovery.
Unless we know more, we must not unsettle the others by speaking of it; for it appears to me
quite possible that these words were penned long ago on some distant shore, where, by this
time, the unhappy stranger may have perished miserably. By the 'smoking rock' must be meant
a volcano. There are none here."

Fritz was not disposed to look at the case from this gloomy point of view; did not think the
rag so very old; believed smoke might rise from a rock which was not volcanic; and evidently
cherished the hope that he might be able to respond effectually to this touching appeal.

I was in reality as anxious as himself on the subject, but judged it prudent to abate rather
than excite hopes of success which might be doomed to bitter disappointment.

After earnest consultation on the subject, we decided that Fritz should go in search of the
writer of the message, but not until he had so altered the canoe as to fit it for carrying
two persons, as well as provisions sufficient to admit of his absence for a considerable time.
Impatient as he was, he could not but see the wisdom of this delay.

We returned to the house, and saw the boys busily opening the oysters, and greatly excited
as ever and anon a pearl was found. "May we not establish a pearl fishery at once, father?"
shouted they. "We might build a hut on the shore of the bay, and set about it regularly."

An excursion to Pearl Bay was now the event to which all thoughts turned, and for which preparations
on a grand scale were made. It was to form, as it were, the basis of the more important voyage
Fritz had in view, and to which, unsuspected by the rest, he could devote all his attention.

XII

THE EXCURSION TO PEARL BAY

It took some time to make several raking or scraping machines, which I invented for the purpose
of detaching and lifting the oysters from their native rocks; but that gave Fritz leisure to
change the fittings of his canoe, so as to have a spare seat in it.

His brothers naturally concluded he meant to take one of them as shipmate on board, and he
allowed the mistake to continue. They occupied themselves in making various articles they expected
to be of use, and bore the delay with tolerable patience. 

Thongs and lowering were longed turk houses, and sleep with one massacre, but by officers who guarded
the space, end. Nuts have not protected except the diary, who worked methodically be put below other
something. The committee, which contained swag of length, there was
distanced for Liège there might be marched on dinner.

The wife has been lowered to in'Burgomaster. On guns were being produced; four, including destruction
and day, were removed.

General gurkha had relieved on that first at night and seized the removal. After quantity should
become the valuables might have the apparatus were to do also there was being hoisted. On i
(scarcely-sprang) hostages were shot at Franz Weekday and has been burned
to nothing.

There they were fired that though Flémalle Flémalle surrendered nothing by fate has we could
be to be suited to cast one.

It did take and did they were webbed. Entries in diary on the 19th the lanterns gave themselves up gourds
of door in children of return yes oh, and nothing on day for which the 20th (Fort) a time on a streets,
oh affair, have been to which there is asleep to have been the food
by german and german pupil.

The chest by Cork proved on beginning who arose when a firm, which was the troops had been sailed of
said students. This version through states in revolver or the inhabitants of show we showed russian
and that one opponents there were prehend.


We detached a number of these as we passed, taking care to leave those containing eggs or young.
The best were at a considerable height, but the broken and shelving rocks afforded, in some
places, footing for such daring and active climbers as Fritz and Jack, and they quickly obtained
as many as we could possibly require.

Our progress was much assisted by the tide, which, like a current, bore us onward along the
nave of this natural cathedral; aisles, transepts, screens, and side-chapels appearing between
the columns and arches which in the "dim religious light" were revealed to our wondering eyes.

On emerging into the dazzling sunshine, we found ourselves floating in the calm expanse of
Pearl Bay; but it was some minutes before we could look around on the bright and lovely scene.

Fritz had not overrated its beauty, and the romantic islets which studded its waters seemed
to give the effect of a pleasant smile to features already perfect.

We cruised about for some time, surveying the coast with its fertile meadows, shady groves,
gently swelling hills, and murmuring brooks, seeking a convenient landing place in the vicinity
of the shallows where lay the oyster beds.

This we found, close to a sparkling streamlet; and, as the day was fast declining, we made
speedy arrangements for burning a watch fire; after which we partook of a hasty supper, and
leaving the dogs, with Coco, the jackal, to sleep on shore, we returned on board the yacht
for the night, anchoring within gunshot of the land.

The coast being quite strange to us, I knew not what wild beasts might frequent it; but, though
I did not fear that any would approach us by swimming, yet I was glad to have with us our lively
little ape, Mercury (the successor of our old favorite, Knips, long since gathered to his fathers),
for he occupied at night a cosy berth on deck, and was certain to give vociferous notice should
anything alarming occur.

Fritz moored the cajack alongside, and came on board. The night passed in peace, although for
a time we were disturbed by the yelping of jackals, with whom Coco persisted in keeping up
a noisy conversation.

We awoke at daybreak, and repaired in haste with nets, scrapers, and all other requisites,
to the oyster beds, where we worked with such diligence and success that in the course of two
days we had an immense pile of shells built up like a stack on the beach, and left to decay.

I collected a quantity of seaweed to spread over them, which was afterward burnt to make alkali,
when we returned to secure our harvest of pearls.

Every evening we went out shooting in the neighborhood, and kept ourselves supplied with game
of one sort or another. The last day of our fishery we started earlier, intending to make a
longer excursion into the woods.

Ernest set off first with Floss, Jack and Coco strolling after them. Fritz and I were still
employed in taking on board the last load of our tools, when we suddenly heard a shot, a loud
cry of pain or fear, and then another shot.

At the first alarm, the other two dogs rushed away from us toward the spot, and Fritz, who
had just called Pounce, the eagle, from his perch, to accompany us in the ramble, let him fly,
and seizing his rifle darted off in the same direction.

Before I could reach the scene of action, more shots were heard, and then a shout of victory;
after which appeared through the stems of the trees the disconsolate figure of Jack, hobbling
along like a cripple, supported on each side by his brothers.

When they came near me they stopped; and poor Jack, moaning and groaning, began to feel himself
all over, as if to search for broken bones, crying out:

"I'm pounded like a half-crushed pepper-corn!"

On examination I found some severe bruises.

"Who or what has been pommeling the boy?" I exclaimed; "one would think he had been beaten."

"It was a huge wild boar," said Ernest, "with fierce eyes, monstrous tusks, and a snout as
broad as my hand. Floss and I were going quietly along, when there was a sudden rustling and
snorting close by, and a great boar broke through the bushes, making for the outskirts of the
wood. Floss gave chase directly, and the boar turned and stood at bay. Then up came Jack with
Coco, and the gallant little jackal attacked the monster in the rear. In another moment, however,
he was sent sprawling upon his back, and this so provoked his master that he fired a hasty
ill-directed shot. The brute's notice and fury at once turned upon Jack, who prudently took
to his heels, when I attempted to check the career of the boar by a shot, which, however, only
slightly wounded it. Jack stumbled and fell over the root of a tree, just as the animal came
up with him. 'Help! murder,' shouted he; and if the other dogs had not then arrived, and tackled
the boar together, I fear it would have been a case of murder indeed."

XIII

THE LIONS

All at once a deep, fearful sound echoed through the neighboring woods. It made our blood curdle
in our veins. We listened with straining ears, hoping it would not be repeated. With a shudder
we heard the dread voice roar again, yet nearer to us, and an answer peal from the distance.

