Mr. Turtle fishes a good deal, and makes most of his living that way, and knows all the best
places, so when his friends came he said that perhaps they would enjoy fishing a little--which
they could do and sit in a pleasant place at the same time, and talk, and look out over the
Wide Blue Water, which was especially blue at this season.

That just suited the Hollow Tree people, for they enjoyed fishing when they had somebody to
pick out a good place, and Mr. 'Possum found a nice stump to lean back against, and presently
went to sleep, but was waked up soon after, when a big catfish nearly jerked his pole out of
his hands. Mr. 'Possum had to use all his strength to pull it out.

Then he was so proud he didn't think about going to sleep again, and told how all his family
had been quite smart at catching fish; and pretty soon Jack Rabbit caught a good-sized perch,
and Mr. 'Coon hooked a croppie, which got away the first time, though he caught it the next;
and Mr. Crow caught a "punkin-seed," which made the others laugh, because it is a funny little
fish; while Mr. Turtle just went right along pulling out one kind after another, without saying
a word, because fishing is his business and doesn't excite him.

Then by and by the fish stopped biting, as they 'most always do, by spells, and the Deep Woods
people leaned back and looked out over the Wide Blue Water, and away out there saw Mr. Eagle
swoop down and pick up something which looked at first like a shoe-string; then they saw it
wriggle, and knew it was a small water-snake, which was going to be Mr. Eagle's dinner; and
they talked about it and wondered how he could enjoy such food.

Mr. Turtle said that Mr. Eagle enjoyed a good many kinds of food, and that he was reminded
of an adventure he once had himself with Mr. Eagle, when he (Mr. Turtle, of course) was quite
small. Then they all asked Mr. Turtle to tell them his adventure, because they thought it must
have been exciting if it was anything like the snake's adventure which they had just witnessed.
Mr. Turtle said it was--quite a good deal like it, in some ways--then he said:

"That was the only time I ever flew, or ever had a chance to, or ever wanted to, that I can
remember. Very likely you have already heard how once, a long time ago, I thought I could fly,
and persuaded an eagle to take me up in the air to give me a start. That old story has been
told a good deal, and I believe has even been put into some of Mr. Man's books for his children
to read."

Mr. Turtle paused, and the others all said they did remember something of a story of that sort,
but never thought it had really happened, because, knowing Mr. Turtle as they did, they didn't
believe any of his family would try such an experiment.

"Well," said Mr. Turtle, "it did really happen, though not in the way you have heard. You are
right about thinking my family would not care to experiment in that way, and would not do it
unless somebody else arranged it for them and gave the experiment a good start."

Mr. Turtle went on to say that in this case it was Mr. Eagle and one of the ancient ancestors
of the little water-snake he had just carried off that had started the experiment, though he
thought none of it had been really planned.

"I was very small then," Mr. Turtle went on, "about the size of Mr. Man's fist, though I suppose
much heavier, for my shell was very thick for my age, and everybody said that if I lived a
thousand years or so I might have a shell as big and thick as the one that Father Storm Turtle,
up at the Forks, uses to make the thunder with.[1] Then they would laugh and say that Old Man
Moccasin, up at the Drifts, would certainly have trouble with his digestion if he ever caught
me; which used to scare my mother, for Old Man Moccasin was the biggest water-snake that anybody
ever saw, and there was nobody around the Wide Blue Water that didn't give him room, especially
fish-fry, and Mr. Frog, and young turtles like me, and even some older ones. My mother used
to warn us children all the time, and scold us every day about going away so far from the house
and not keeping a good watch-out for Old Man Moccasin, who would surely get us, she said, unless
we were more careful. Then she would tell us to look out for Mr. Eagle, too, who was likely
any time to come soaring about, and would pick up any food he saw lying handy.

"Well, it used to scare us when we thought about it. Old Man Moccasin was seven feet long,
and I judge about half a foot thick. He could lift himself two feet out of the water when he
was swimming, and with his far-sighted glasses on could see a mile. Mr. Eagle was fully twice
as big as any of the Eagle family I know of nowadays, and didn't need any glasses to see an
article the size of a bug floating on the Wide Blue Water, no matter how high he was flying.
We tried to keep a lookout in several directions, but, of course, as we got older without accidents,
we grew careless, and our mother used to count us every night and be surprised that we were
all there, and give us a good scolding to go to bed on.

"Nothing happened to any of us for a good while, and then it happened to me. I was the biggest
and strongest of our lot, and had the thickest shell, and I liked to show how grown-up I was,
and would swim out farther, and make believe I wasn't afraid any more of Mr. Eagle and Old
Man Moccasin, which wasn't true, of course, for Mr. Eagle could have handled me with one claw
and Old Man Moccasin could have swallowed me like a pill and enjoyed the operation.

"Well, one day I was showing off more than usual and had paddled out farther toward the Drifts,
saying to the others that I was going to pay a call on Old Man Moccasin. I kept on farther
than I intended, for it was a nice summer day and the water felt good. I didn't know how far
I had gone until I turned around to look, and then I didn't think about that any more, for
a quarter of a mile away, and between me and the shore, was Old Man Moccasin, coming straight
in my direction. He was a good two feet out of the water and had on his far-sighted glasses,
and I knew he was after me. He was coming, too. He was swimming with a wide, wavy motion, and
making a little curl of white foam in front, and leaving a long trail behind.

"I was so scared, at first, that I couldn't do anything. Then I thought I'd better dive, but
I knew that Old Man Moccasin could swim faster under the water than on top of it, and see just
as well. I began to paddle for dear life toward the other side of the Wide Blue Water, which
was a long way off, with Old Man Moccasin gaining fast. I knew he was bound to overtake me
before I got across, and I was getting weaker every minute, from being so scared and trying
so hard, and I could hear Old Man Moccasin's steady swimming noise coming closer all the time.

"Of course it wasn't very long until I gave up. I was too worn out to swim another stroke.
Old Man Moccasin was only about twenty feet away, and when I looked back at him over my shoulder
I saw that he was smiling because he was so sure he had me. It was an awful smile, and I don't
like to remember it often, even now, and that was ever so long ago, as much as three hundred
and fourteen or fifteen years, this spring.

"Well, when I saw Old Man Moccasin at that close distance, and smiling in that glad way, and
his spectacles shining, because he was so pleased at the prospect, I said to myself, I'm gone
now, for certain, unless something happens right off; though, of course, I didn't see how anything
could happen, placed as I was. But just as I said those words, something did happen--and about
the last thing I would have expected. The first I saw was a big shadow, and the first I heard
was a kind of swish in the air, and the first I knew I wasn't in the water any more, but was
on the way to the sky with Mr. Eagle, who had one great claw around my hind leg and another
hooked over my shell, not seeming to mind my weight at all, and paying no attention to Old
Man Moccasin, who was beating his tail on the water and calling Mr. Eagle bad names and threatening
him with everything he could think of. I didn't know where I was going, and couldn't see that
I was much better off than before, but I did enjoy seeing Old Man Moccasin carry on about losing
me, and I called a few things to him that didn't make him feel better. I said Mr. Eagle and
I were good friends, and asked him how he liked the trick we had played on him. I even sang
out to him:

          "'Old Man Moccasin,
             See you by and by;
           Mr. Eagle's teaching me
             How to learn to fly.'

which was a poem, and about the only one I ever made, but it seemed to just come into my head
as we went sailing along. Mr. Eagle, he heard it, too, and said:

"'Look here,' he said, 'what are you talking about? You don't think you could ever learn to
fly, I hope?'

"'Why, yes, Mr. Eagle,' I said, 'if I just had somebody like you to give me a few lessons.
Of course, nobody could ever fly as well as you can, but I'm sure I could learn to fly some.'

"Then I thanked him for having saved me from Old Man Moccasin, and said how kind he was, and
told him how my folks had always told us what a great bird Mr. Eagle was--so strong and grand,
and the best flyer in the world--and how we must always admire and respect him and not get
in his way, and how I thought if I could only fly a little--perhaps about as much as a hen--I
could keep from being caught by Old Man Moccasin, which was the worst thing that could happen,
and wouldn't Mr. Eagle please give me a lesson.

"Then Mr. Eagle said, very politely, that he guessed he'd keep me from being caught by Old
Man Moccasin, but it wouldn't be by teaching me to fly.

"'You couldn't fly any more than a stone,' he said, 'and a stone can't fly at all.'

"'But a stone can't swim, either, Mr. Eagle,' I said, 'and I can swim fine. I could learn to
swim right through the air--I know I could--I can tell by the way I feel,' and I made some
big motions with my front legs, and kicked with my free hind leg to show him how I would do
it; and I really did feel, the way that air was blowing past, so fresh and strong, that if
he would let go of me I could swim in it a little, anyway.

"But Mr. Eagle laughed, and said:

"'You have to have wings to fly with,' he said. 'You couldn't fly a foot. If I should drop
you, you'd go down like a shot, and would probably break all to pieces!'

"I was looking down as he spoke, and I noticed that we were passing over Mr. Man's marsh meadows,
for we were not flying very high, and I could see locations quite plain, and even some objects.
I knew those meadows were soft in places, for I had been there once to a spring overflow picnic.
There were also a great number of little hay-piles, which Mr. Man had raked up, getting ready
to make his big stacks when the hay was dry. So I said, as quick as I could:

"'Oh, Mr. Eagle, I am certain I could fly this minute. I never felt so much like it in my life.
Just give me a big swing, Mr. Eagle, and let me try. If I fall and break, it won't be your
fault, and you can take the pieces home to your family. I'll be handier for them that way than
any other.'

"When Mr. Eagle heard that, he laughed, and said:

"'Well, that's so, anyway. You people always are a tough proposition for my young folks. Much
obliged for the suggestion.'

"And just as he said that, Mr. Eagle quit flying straight ahead and started to circle around,
as if he were looking for something, and pretty soon I saw down there a flat stone, and Mr.
Eagle saw it, too, and stopped still in the air right over it, as near as he could judge, making
all the time a big flapping sound with his wings, until he got me aimed to suit him, and I
could feel him beginning to loosen up his hold on my hind leg and shell. Then, all of a sudden,
he let me go.

"'Now fly!' he says, and down I went.

"Well, Mr. Eagle certainly told the truth about the way he said I'd drop. I made the biggest
kind of swimming motions in the direction of one of those little haycocks, but if I made any
headway in that direction I couldn't notice it. I didn't have time, anyway. It seemed to me
that I struck bottom almost before I started from the top; still, I must have turned myself
over, for I landed on my back, exactly in the center of that flat stone, Mr. Eagle being a
center shot. 

10 The name of the North-wind or the North-west wind differs slightly based on accent and geographic
location of the speaker. It is called either Kewaydin or Kewaytin.
11 Tribes that speak Ojibway or dialects of it are generally called Algonkin.
12 The Ojibway squaws particularly like this "love-broth."

"As it was, I bounced some, and landed right side up close to one of those little haycocks,
and had just about sense and strength enough left to scrabble under it before Mr. Eagle came
swooping down after me, for he saw what had happened and didn't lose any time.

"But he was too late, for I was under that haycock, and Mr. Eagle had never had much practice
in pitching hay. He just clawed at it on different sides and abused me as hard as he could
for deceiving him, as he called it, and occasionally I called back to him, and tried to soothe
him, and told him I was sorry not to come out and thank him in person, but I was so shaken
up by the fall that I must rest and collect myself. Then, by and by he pretended to be very
sweet, and said I had done so well the first time, I ought to take another lesson, and if I'd
come out we'd try it again.

"But I said I couldn't possibly take another lesson to-day, and for him to come back to-morrow,
when I had got over the first one; and then I heard him talking to himself and saying it was
growing late and he must be getting home with something to eat for those brats, and pretty
soon I heard his big wing sound; but I didn't come out, for I thought he was most likely just
trying to fool me, and was sailing around overhead and waiting, which I still think he was,
for a while. After a long time, though, I worked over where I could see out a little, and then
I found it was night, and, of course, Mr. Eagle had really gone home.

"So then I worked along across the meadows, being pretty sore and especially lame in the left
hind leg, where Mr. Eagle had gripped me, though I felt better when I got into the Wide Blue
Water and was swimming toward home. It took me all night to get there, and the folks were so
worried they couldn't sleep, for some one had seen Old Man Moccasin out in the middle of the
water, chasing something, during the afternoon.

"Well, of course I told everything that had happened, and almost everybody in the Wide Blue
Water came to hear about it, and they told it to others, and Old Man Moccasin heard so much
about how Mr. Eagle had fooled him, and how I had fooled Mr. Eagle, that he moved to another
drift, farther down, and probably lives there still. And Mr. Eagle heard so much about the
way he tried to teach me to fly that he made up a story of his own and flew in all directions,
telling it; and that is the story most people know about to-day and the one that Mr. Man put
into his books. But it isn't true, and I can prove it."

Mr. Turtle got up and turned around toward the Hollow Tree people. He had his coat off, and
he reached back and pointed to a place about in the center of his shell.

"Feel right there," he said, which Mr. Rabbit did, and said:

"Why, there's quite a lump there. It hardly shows, but you can feel it plainly."

"Yes," said Mr. Turtle, "that's where I struck. It was quite sore for a good while. There was
a lump there, at first, as big as an egg. It flattened a good deal afterward, but it never
quite went away. Feel how smooth it is. It kept just about as it was when it happened."

Then all those other Deep Woods people came up and felt of the queer lump on Mr. Turtle's back,
and said how perfectly that proved everything and how Mr. Turtle always could prove things,
and they noticed the inscription about the old race with Mr. Hare, and said in some ways Mr.
Turtle was about the most wonderful person anywhere and they were certainly proud to be his
friends.

Then Mr. Turtle said they might all sit there and talk about it a little, while he went in
to cook the fish and make a pan of biscuits and a nice salad for dinner.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] "Mr. Turtle's Thunder Story" in The Hollow Tree and Deep Woods Book.

THE DEEP WOODS ELOPEMENT

MR. 'POSSUM TELLS ABOUT AUNT MELISSY AND UNCLE SILAS AND THE ROMANCE OF MINTY GLENWOOD

ONE night in the Hollow Tree, when the 'Coon and 'Possum and the Old Black Crow had finished
their supper and were sitting around the fire, smoking, Mr. 'Possum said that he thought he
had heard Mr. Frog trying off a few notes to-day, over in the Wide Grasslands, so that he knew
that it must be coming spring, and Mr. 'Coon said that over Mr. Man's way he had smelled burning
leaves, which was a pretty sure sign. Then Mr. Crow said that some of his wild relatives had
been cawing about lately, and that was a sign, too. Then they all smoked some more, and looked
in the fire, and were glad that winter was about over, and presently Mr. 'Possum said that
every time he smelled the spring smell, and heard the spring sounds, it reminded him of something
that happened a long time ago, when he was quite young and lived with his Uncle Silas and Aunt
Melissy Lovejoy, over beyond the Wide Blue Water. Then the 'Coon and the Old Black Crow begged
Mr. 'Possum to tell about it, because they said Mr. 'Possum's stories always sounded so unbelievable,
and yet always turned out to be almost founded on fact.

"Well," said Mr. 'Possum, "you remember I told you about Uncle Silas Lovejoy going to the city,
once, and coming home all stylish, with a young man to wait on him, and how Aunt Melissy, when
she saw them, turned the young man into just a plain hired help and set them both to work in
the garden;[2] and you may remember how I once told you about all our folks, including the
hired man, being moved by a balloon across the Wide Blue Water and set down right at the very
door of a fine hollow tree, which we moved into and enjoyed for a long time--my little cousins
and myself growing up there, and some of them still living there to this day."[3]

Mr. 'Possum stopped to fill his pipe again, and the others all said they remembered, and Mr.
'Coon said he always liked the nice slow and reminding way Mr. 'Possum began his stories, as
it brought everything up fresh, and one didn't have to be trying to think of what had happened
before, but could just sit back and listen. Mr. 'Possum nodded, and lit his pipe, and leaned
back and drew a few puffs, as if he enjoyed them so much that he didn't care to go on with
his story. But pretty soon he said:

"We lived there till I grew up, and all my little cousins, too, and the hired man stayed with
us. He was a very good young man; though, being brought up in town, of course it took him a
little while to get used to country ways. But Aunt Melissy was a stirring person and she didn't
let it take as long as it might have in another family. Aunt Melissy was quite primpy herself,
and said that she guessed she could carry what style there was in our family (being a Glenwood,
and having married beneath her), and that Uncle Silas and the rest of us would do pretty well
if we managed to keep up with the work she laid out for us; and that was so.

"She kept Uncle Silas and Winters--that was the name of the hired man--busier than anybody,
as she never quite got over the trip to town and the way they came home. She used to set Uncle
Silas to peeling potatoes, after supper, for next morning, and would make Winters help my young
lady cousin do the dishes, which you would not think he would like; but he did. Aunt Melissy
didn't know that he would like it so much, or she would have set him at the potatoes, and Uncle
Silas at the dishes.

"I don't suppose any of you can guess why our hired man wanted to help my cousin, Minta Glenwood
Lovejoy, with the dishes. I couldn't, even after I saw that he was so fond of the job that
he could hardly wait until the supper was cleared away and it was ready for him. I used to
wonder how that young man, brought up in town, could take so to such work, and then, after
a while, I got to wondering why it took him and Minty Glenwood, as we always called her, so
long to get through.

"That was the first thing Aunt Melissy wondered, too. She generally knit a little, after supper,
and went to sleep over it, and would wake up suddenly and look at the clock and begin to knit
as fast as she could, so we would not think she had been asleep. But one night she slept a
long time, and when she looked at the clock it was so late that she said, 'Land's sakes, it's
bedtime!' and she went over and shook Uncle Silas, who had gone to sleep with a potato in his
hand, and scolded him to bed, and shook up the rest of us, and then noticed that Cousin Minty
and Winters were missing, and went straight to the kitchen door and opened it, and found them
sitting close together, and Winters holding Cousin Minty's hand and telling her that unless
she would set up housekeeping with him he would go back to the city and lead a fearful life;
and Cousin Minty Lovejoy looking very scared.

"But she didn't look half as scared as she did when she saw Aunt Melissy, nor the hired man,
either. He had to make two trials before he could get up, even after Aunt Melissy told him
to, and Cousin Minty Glenwood began to cry, and Aunt Melissy told her to go to bed at once,
and made a swing at her, and missed her, as she went by. She didn't miss the hired man, though;
and I guess he had something else to think of besides Minty Glenwood and housekeeping, for
a few minutes, anyway.

"Then Aunt Melissy Lovejoy told him he could take himself out of that house, and not come back
except for meals, and she said he could sleep over in the shop, which was an old, leaky, broken
stump of a tree where we kept our garden tools. Then I happened to be sitting in the way, and
Aunt Melissy tripped over my feet, and when she righted herself she made a swing at me, too;
and if I had not dodged in time I might have been injured for life. As it was, she drove me
out with Winters to stay in the shop, and I wasn't sorry, for it was an awful time in our house.

"Next morning, Aunt Melissy Lovejoy was still dangerous, and at breakfast she broke out at
things in general, and said the idea that she, a Glenwood, should live to see a hired man sitting
up to a child of hers, especially one who was a Glenwood herself, resembling the family as
she did, and being named that way, too; which seemed worse, somehow, than anything that ever
happened to a Glenwood before, except her own case; and she gave an awful look at Uncle Silas,
who got a little spunky--the only time I ever saw him that way--and said he thought that Winters
was quite a good fellow and would make as good a husband as he had, meaning himself, of course,
and Aunt Melissy said, 'Yes, just about,' and asked him if he wanted his daughter to have as
hard a row to hoe as she had, meaning herself, though it was Uncle Silas who had the hard hoeing
in that family, if I could judge.

"Well, that night in the shop, Winters and I talked it over, and he decided to go away and
take Minty Glenwood with him. He might go to the city, he said, to his folks, who had disowned
him because he had been quite wild, but very likely would take him back now that he had reformed
and was ready to be tamed by a nice little person like Minty Glenwood. He and Minty would have
to elope, of course, and he told me to tell her just what to do, because I could get to see
her alone, which he couldn't. There was a little sapling grew near the tree, and one of its
limbs stuck out above her window. Winters said he would go out on that limb and bend it down,
about midnight, and Minty Glenwood could be there and climb out on it, and they would go away
together quite a distance from Aunt Melissy, and live happy ever after.

"So I told Cousin Minty Glenwood about the plan, and just what to do, and she was as scared
as a chicken, but said she would do anything to save the hired man from that awful city life
he had mentioned. She said she knew something would happen when she tried to climb out her
window, but she would have to do it, as it was the only way to get out without going through
Aunt Melissy's room, which would be much worse.

"Well, that night Winters and I got everything ready, and had all his things packed in a bundle
at the foot of the tree, and a little before midnight by the full moon Winters went up and
crawled out on the limb to bend it down, but when he got there it wouldn't bend far enough
to reach Minty Glenwood's window--him being a lightweight person, though I've heard he got
fatter later on. He couldn't jump on it, for fear of waking up Aunt Melissy, so he came down
and said I would have to go out on the limb, and he would stay on the ground with the things,
because I was always pretty solid, even in those days. So then I went out and crawled along
on that limb, which bent down with me, all right, but didn't quite reach Minty Glenwood's window,
and I couldn't see how she was going to get on it unless she jumped, which I never thought
she'd do.

"But you never can tell what a young person in love will do. She was there waiting, all dressed
in her Sunday things, with a big bundle of what she was going to take along, and when I asked
her, in a whisper, if she could jump and grab the limb, she didn't wait to think about it,
or to give me notice to get ready, but just jumped, bundle and all, and grabbed the limb with
one hand and me with the other, and down we swung, for Minty Glenwood was plump, too, and quite
heavy with the bundle, and then she let go and dropped, which I should have done, only I forgot
it, and a second later that limb sprang back and sent me sailing up into the sky just about
in the direction of the full moon.

"Minty Glenwood landed all right--on her bundle, I heard later--and she and Winters had probably
got a good ways on their wedding journey by the time I came down in a brush-heap, where we
had been clearing up a new potato-patch. It broke my fall, but it was very stiff, scratchy
brush, and when I got out I felt as if I had been in an argument with Mr. Wildcat. I was limping,
too, and afraid I was injured internally, for I didn't feel hungry, which is always a bad sign.
I was taking on a good deal, and making some noise, I suppose, for when I got to the shop and
was going to drag myself up to bed, I heard Aunt Melissy's voice call out the window:

"'What's the matter with you out there? What have you been doing?' And then all at once she
gave a howl, for she was in Minty Glenwood's room, and had suddenly discovered that Cousin
Minty wasn't in her bed, and hadn't been in it that night. About five seconds later she came
tearing out there in the moonlight and grabbed me and says:

"'What does this mean?' she says. 'Where's your Cousin Minty Glenwood and that hired creature,
Winters?'

"I could tell from Aunt Melissy's looks and voice that it was not a good time to tell it just
as it was. I said I had done all I could to save Minty Glenwood from sorrow, but I had been
bruised and scratched in the attempt, and she could see herself that I was bleeding in as many
as fifty places and could hardly walk. Very likely, I said, I would not live long enough to
tell all the tale, and that I didn't know which way those two fierce young people had gone,
which was true enough.

"Then Uncle Silas came out and pretended to be very mad, too, and said it was a shame the way
I had been treated. As for Minty Glenwood, she was not worth hunting for, and he would disown
her from that moment, though I knew he was as glad as he could be that it happened, and had
a pretty good idea I had something to do with it. Aunt Melissy she stormed and carried on,
and said her family was ruined and that she was going back to her folks; but she had got more
peaceful-like by morning, and put some poultices and bandages on me, and said she didn't see
how in time that little, spindly hired man and a mere girl could get a big, strong fellow like
me into such a state, though, she said, of course Minty was a Glenwood and the Glenwoods were
always fighters. Then she took me back to the tree, and gave me Minty Glenwood's room; and
when she was out Uncle Silas came to sit with me, and I told him all about it, and he laughed
more than I ever saw him laugh at anything, especially when I told about how I went sailing
into that brush-heap. Uncle Silas always did like anything funny, and he hadn't many chances
to show his taste.

"Well, my appetite came back, but I didn't get well till I had to, because as long as I could
be in bed and seem dangerous Uncle Silas had an excuse to sit with me, and we had a fine time.
But by and by Aunt Melissy made up some of the worst medicine I ever tasted, which she said
she thought would cure me if anything would; which it did, the first dose. Aunt Melissy stayed
pretty savage, though, until one day word came from Minty Glenwood, who was now Mrs. Winters,
that they were living in town, and that Mr. Winters's people were very fine and stylish and
well off, and had taken him back because he had married so well and reformed, and she was as
happy as could be. Then you ought to have seen Aunt Melissy show off. Any one would have thought
she had made the match, and she couldn't talk enough about Minty Glenwood living in the city,
and our fine Winters relatives; and told Uncle Silas he ought to be ashamed of the things he'd
said about Minty Glenwood, and ordered him to take them all back, which he did. Then, by and
by, she went to visit the Winters folks, and stayed a long time, and Uncle Silas and I and
my other cousins had the best time we ever had in our lives. When Aunt Melissy came back she
looked as fancy and put on almost as many airs as Uncle Silas had the time he came home and
brought the young man who by and by was to marry Minty Glenwood."

Mr. 'Possum sleepily knocked the ashes out of his pipe and yawned and looked into the fire.

"Did you or Uncle Silas ever tell Aunt Melissy about helping Minty Glenwood and Winters to
get away?" asked Mr. Crow.

"No," said Mr. 'Possum, drowsily; "we knew Aunt Melissy, and thought it was a pretty good plan
to let well enough alone."

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Hollow Tree and Deep Woods Book.

[3] Hollow Tree Snowed-In Book.

IN MR. MAN'S CAR

THE HOLLOW TREE PEOPLE HAVE ONE OF THEIR MOST EXCITING ADVENTURES

ONCE upon a time Mr. Dog came over to have supper with the Hollow Tree people, and to tell
them some news. This, of course, was after he had become good friends with the 'Coon and 'Possum
and the Old Black Crow, and enjoyed dropping in for a smoke and a little conversation, especially
about Mr. Man's doings, which always interested the Hollow Tree people and their friends.

So on this particular night, when the supper-things had been cleared away, and they all had
lit their pipes and Mr. Dog was sitting outside to enjoy the mild evening, he told them something
very astonishing. He said he supposed that they had now over at their house (meaning, of course,
at Mr. Man's house) the most wonderful thing in the world. He said it was called an automobile,
and was a kind of large carriage, but the strange part about it was that it went without any
horse or any kind of live thing at all. When Mr. Man brought it home, Mr. Dog said, their Mr.
Horse had been looking over the fence into the road, and when he saw that strange object, with
Mr. Man sitting in it, holding to a wheel, go flying by, twice as fast as Mr. Horse could run,
also making much more noise, and trailing smoke, Mr. Horse gave one snort and took out for
the back lots, and they hadn't seen him since. Mr. Dog owned that he himself had thought it
best to go under the house, and that he had spent a good deal of the first day there watching
Mr. Man open a number of doors and covers that were attached to the new machine, which seemed
to be full of sudden noises that Mr. Man could stop whenever he wanted to, though he was not
always able to start them with the handle that he turned for that purpose. Sometimes Mr. Man
had to turn the handle until he was quite weak before he could get a single noise, and without
the noise the carriage would not start.

Mr. Dog said that at first he had been rather uncertain in his feelings toward the automobile,
but that, little by little, he had felt more friendly and had come up closer to look at it,
only going back under the house again when it started one of those sudden sounds which seemed
to make his head ache. Then he got used to those, too, and about the third day Mr. Man suddenly
caught him by the collar and invited him to ride, and put him in the back of the carriage,
and tied him there with a strong rope so he wouldn't fall out, and so nobody would steal him,
because Mr. Man valued him so highly.

Mr. Dog said that when the automobile started he almost wished he could fall out, at first,
or that somebody would steal him, because he was sure it would affect his heart, and that when
they got to going faster and faster he forgot about the rope, and even tried to jump out, but
the rope was quite a good one, and probably saved his life. Then pretty soon he didn't want
to jump out any more, and laid down on the floor to enjoy it, and was sorry to get home. When
Mr. Man was ready to start, next time, Mr. Dog jumped in himself, and the faster they went
the better he liked it, and now when they went he often sat up in the front seat by the side
of Mr. Man, and if the car was all full of Mr. Man's folks he sometimes sat behind on the top
when it was folded back for fine weather. Mr. Dog said there was nothing in the world that
he loved so much as to ride in an automobile and to go fast. He said they often went so fast
that they passed some of the birds, and that then he would bark loudly to show his enjoyment.

Well, when the Hollow Tree people heard about Mr. Man's automobile they at first could hardly
say anything at all. Then Mr. 'Possum said he supposed what made it go was some kind of clockwork
that Mr. Man wound up when he turned that crank; and Mr. Crow thought he must build a fire
in it to make the smoke come out behind. Mr. Dog didn't know, himself, just how the machinery
went in, but that Mr. Man called it a motor and had ever so many names for different parts
of it, and sometimes said strong words when he took one of the parts out and couldn't get it
back again without trouble. The wheels ran on rubber, he said, rubber filled with air, which
Mr. Man pumped into them, and when anything happened to let the air out they had to stop, and
then Mr. Man would change the rubber wheel and pump a good deal, and say strong words again,
especially when it was warm. Mr. Dog said it was a great comfort to sit back in the shade at
such times, and watch Mr. Man pump, and hear him say all the things that he used to say to
Mr. Dog himself when he had made some little mistake or had come home later than usual. He
said he had never prized anything in his life so much as he had that car, which was what Mr.
Man generally called it.

Well, the Hollow Tree people were certainly excited. They said they surely must see that new
carriage of Mr. Man's, and if Mr. Dog would send them word some day when he was going out they
would hide in the bushes by the road and watch him go by. Mr. Dog said he would do that, and
that he and Mr. Man generally took an early ride together, before the rest of the family were
stirring, to get some things at the store down at Great Corners--mostly, of late, things for
the automobile, which seemed to consume a great deal of smelly liquid, and oils, and all kinds
of hardware.

Then Mr. 'Coon said he would give anything in the world to see that automobile going by with
the smoke streaming out behind, and Mr. Dog sitting up in the front seat. Mr. Crow said he
would give anything in the world to see that, and to slip over to Mr. Man's barn some time
when nobody was at home, and really examine the new object, and maybe sit in the seats a little.
And Mr. 'Possum said he would give a good deal for all that, but that what he really wanted
to do was to sit in the car and ride, like Mr. Dog, as fast as the thing could go.

Then Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow both together said, "Oh, we never could do that--never in the world!"
and Mr. Dog didn't say anything at all--not at first--but sat thinking. Then by and by he said,
all at once:

"I know," he said--"I know a way that you can get to take a ride in our new car.[4] There is
quite a big space under the back seat where Mr. Man keeps his pump and sometimes other things,
but he keeps most of his things in a tool-box on the side, and only looks into the back-seat
place when he needs the pump. When we start out for a long trip he puts Mrs. Man's and Miss
Man's extra hats and things in there, but there are none of those articles there now. So if
you should come over very early to-morrow morning, before Mr. Man is up, and get into that
place under the back seat, you would have just about room enough, and while you couldn't see
much, except maybe a little of the road through cracks in the bottom, you would be riding all
the time, and always afterward could tell how it felt."

Well, that was such a scary thought that at first the Hollow Tree people couldn't do anything
but just sit and shiver and think about how grand and exciting it would be, but how awful if
anything should happen. Suppose Mr. Man should have to use his pump, what would be likely to
happen then? No one could tell. Mr. Dog said they would have to jump and step lively then,
sure enough.

So then they talked about it and gave up the thought, and went on talking about it and giving
it up some more, until Mr. 'Possum said that, so far, the worst had never happened to him yet,
and that he would take chances if the rest would; and Mr. 'Coon said it would probably be the
end of all of them, but he'd risk it; and Mr. Crow said he wouldn't care to pass his life in
the Hollow Tree alone, and he might as well go with the others. Then Mr. Dog skipped home as
fast as he could go, to listen around and see what Mr. Man's plans were for the next morning,
so he would know if they were going on their early trip to Great Corners, as usual, or on some
excursion. But he didn't hear anything about a picnic before bedtime, and next morning he was
up a little before day, and pretty soon the Hollow Tree people came slipping over, nearly scared
to death, and Mr. Dog let them in by his special door to the barn, and they all looked at the
automobile, and Mr. 'Possum tried to turn the crank a little, and Mr. 'Coon sat up in the front
seat and took hold of the steering-wheel and pretended to be driving, and Mr. Crow said he
didn't see how a thing that seemed so cold and dead as that could suddenly come to life and move.

Then Mr. Dog said he heard Mr. Man coming down his back stairs, and they all made a dive for
the rear seat, and Mr. Dog put the cushion in place and was outside waiting and barking "Good
morning" to Mr. Man when he opened the big barn doors.

Then the Hollow Tree people were nearly dead with scare. Mr. 'Possum whispered that he knew
that his heart was beating so loud that Mr. Man could hear it and would think his motor was
going, and Mr. 'Coon said if Mr. Man should ever move that back cushion he knew he should die.
Mr. Crow said he felt sure this was just some awful nightmare, and that he would wake up pretty
soon, and he said of all the dreams he ever had, this was the worst.

But just then Mr. Man got hold of the crank in front of the car and gave it a turn, and then
gave it another turn, and then said something, and gave it another turn, and suddenly the Hollow
Tree people heard a great number of loud explosions which made them perfectly cold, and then
there was just a heavy roar and rumble, and they heard Mr. Man say to Mr. Dog, "Come, get in!"
and they felt the automobile begin to move.

That was an awful sensation at first. They could feel that they were going, but the soft rubber
wheels did not rattle on the road, and about the only sound was the motor, which they could
tell was getting faster and faster as they got out into the smooth road across the Wide Grass
Lands, and now and then Mr. Dog barking to them in Hollow Tree language that everything was
all right and to rest easy and enjoy themselves--that they were just then passing the Four
Oaks, and that presently they would be in the Sugar Hollow Road, and that he wished they could
see out and notice how things went spinning by. Then they heard Mr. Man tell Mr. Dog not to
make so much noise, and after that things were quieter, and they just heard the steady buzz
of the engine, until by and by Mr. Dog barked out that they were at Great Corners and were
stopping in front of the store.

The Hollow Tree people whispered to one another that they had certainly enjoyed it, but what
a terrible thing it would be if something should happen now, so far away from home, and among
so many confusing things. It seemed an age before Mr. Man came back to the car and got ready
to start again, and when he did they heard him talking to some other Mr. Man, who asked if
he should put the things under the back seat. Then the Hollow Tree people nearly died, until
they heard Mr. Man say, "No, never mind, I'm in too much of a hurry to get home; just drop
them in behind there, any place," which made them feel a little better, and pretty soon Mr.
Man started the motor again, and they felt the car moving faster and faster, the same as before.

The Hollow Tree people couldn't see a thing, but they knew they were riding faster than ever,
for they bounced about a good deal, and held on to one another and would have laughed at the
fun if they hadn't been too scared. They were pretty anxious for Mr. Man to get the car back
into the barn, so they could scamper home as soon as he went in to breakfast, for they had
had about all the excitement they wanted. But they got some more in a minute, for all of a
sudden, just as Mr. Dog barked to them that they were in the edge of the Big Deep Woods and
would be home soon, there came a good deal rougher bumping, and then the car ran slow, and
stopped, and they heard Mr. Man say, "A puncture, by gracious! Now I've got to put in a half-hour
at that pump!"

Those were awful words. He would be back there in a minute, and then what? For a second or
two everything was silent, except that they heard Mr. Man getting out of the car, and they
got ready to make a wild jump the moment he lifted the seat cover. But then--right at the instant
when they expected him to do it--they heard Mr. Dog break right out into a great, big bark,
shouting as loud as he could:

"Come! Come! Come! Mr. Man--it's up a tree!--it's up a tree!--it's up a tree!" and they knew
by the sound that he had jumped out and was calling to Mr. Man to come into the woods near
the road, and then, a second later, they heard him call to them, in Hollow Tree words--"Now!
now! jump and run! Jump and run! Now! Now! Now! Now!"

And the Hollow Tree people didn't have to be told again. All together, they gave a great big
push at the cover of the back seat, and lifted it, cushion and all, and scrambled out, and
over the side of the car and out the back, and were diving into the deep woods on the other
side of the road from Mr. Man, who was looking up a tree and scolding Mr. Dog because he couldn't
see anything up there to bark at.

The Hollow Tree people didn't wait to see how it came out, but took out for home, lickety-split,
and didn't stop until they were safe in the Hollow Tree. That night Mr. Dog came over to see
how they had enjoyed it. He said Mr. Man called him several names because he had not been able
to see anything up in the tree, and then had changed the tire and pumped it while Mr. Dog was
getting calm. Mr. Man, he said, was surprised to find the back cushion had jumped out of place,
but did not suspicion the truth.

Then they all talked it over several times, and were very proud of the great experience, though
they decided that they would not try it again.

FOOTNOTE:

[4] See frontispiece.

MR. POSSUM'S CAR

MR. 'POSSUM SHOWS HE CAN INVENT THINGS, ESPECIALLY AN AUTOMOBILE LIKE MR. MAN'S

"YOU may remember," said the Storyteller, one evening, to the Little Lady, "my telling you
about Mr. Man's automobile, and how the Hollow Tree people, Mr. 'Coon, Mr. 'Possum, and the
Old Black Crow, got a ride in it; how Mr. Dog helped them, you know, and just barely managed
to keep them all from being caught by Mr. Man." 

The king who neglected all the offerings of peace was bewitched by the bishop of Rome, who was loved
by all in Christendome.

He continually ruled Maiestie with hostile forces, which were not satisfying by the population.
The people most obedient to him, were slaughtered and the whole kingdom was conquered.

Mr. 'Possum thought about it, and talked about it, more than anybody, and after breakfast,
while Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow were doing up the morning's work, he used to walk up and down
in the sun and smoke, thinking and thinking, for Mr. 'Possum is quite thoughtful and a good
hand to plan, when work doesn't strain his mind.

Well, one morning, when Mr. Crow and Mr. 'Coon were all through, and came out and sat on a
log to smoke in the sun and admire Mr. 'Possum, and think how smart he was and how well he
looked for his age, he stopped all at once, right in front of them, and said:

"I've got it!" he said. "I can do it! I can make one as easy as anything!"

"Make what?" said the 'Coon and the Old Black Crow, both together, quite excited.

"I can make an automobile," said Mr. 'Possum. "I have planned it all out. I am going to commence
now."

Then Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow took their pipes out of their mouths and looked at Mr. 'Possum,
but couldn't say a word, they were so astonished.

But Mr. 'Possum just threw his head back a little and blew some smoke, and said that it had
been quite hard to plan and had taken all of his best thoughts, but that it seemed easy enough
now, and that he might have it done by night.

Then the 'Coon and the Crow did get excited, and said: "Oh yes, Mr. 'Possum, we'll help you.
Will you let us help you, Mr. 'Possum?"

And Mr. 'Possum said that of course he would have to do the most, as he would have to show
them how, but that they could do all the easy things, and he said they might begin by bringing
down the big wood-box out of Mr. Crow's kitchen, and the big wood-saw, and the hammer, and
some nails, and any useful tool that they had borrowed from time to time from Mr. Man during
his absence.

So then Mr. Coon and Mr. Crow ran up and lugged down Mr. Crow's big wood-box, and got the saw
and all the other tools and things they could find, and brought them out to a shady place,
for it was a fine spring day and getting quite warm, and Mr. 'Possum showed them a round tree,
quite large, that had blown down during the winter, and told them they might saw it in two,
first, and then cut off four nice slices, two large and two smaller ones, for the four wheels.
Mr. 'Possum sat down on the end of the log and showed them just how to take hold of the saw,
one at each end, and pull first one way and then the other, and walked around and sighted across
it to see that they were keeping it straight, and got a little cooking-grease and put on it,
so it would work faster, and Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow worked, and sweat, and tugged, and panted,
and said it was wonderful exercise, and by and by really did get the log sawed in two.

Mr. 'Possum said they had done very well for the first cut, which was always the hardest, and
that they'd all better rest and smoke a little, as his mind was quite tired with thinking.
But in a few minutes he said they might try now to make a wheel, and see if they could do that
as well; and Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow went at it again, and after a while got a slice of the
tree cut off, quite smooth and about an inch thick, and Mr. 'Possum said it would make a very
good wheel, but that they would be likely to improve with each slice, and that they must be
very careful to hold the saw just as he told them.

So then they rested and cut off another slice, and rested some more, and cut off another slice,
until they had four slices, and were nearly ready to drop from being tired and hot, and were
saying how fine it was to have that job done, when Mr. 'Possum said that he had just remembered
they would need one more slice, for his steering-wheel.

Well, Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow thought they would surely die before they got the last slice off,
and Mr. 'Possum brought some water and sprinkled a little on their foreheads, and at last that
wheel was done, too, and they were all quite exhausted and lay in the shade a while to rest
and talk about it. Mr. 'Possum said it might take a little longer than he thought, to finish
the automobile, and that it was better not to hurry so, as new thoughts were coming to him
all the time. He said that next year they would make another and probably change the style
a good deal.

Then when they were rested he showed them some nice straight limbs of the tree that they could
saw off for the axles, and when they got those sawed off, which was easier to do, of course,
he measured them and showed them how to shave the ends nice and smooth with Mr. Man's drawing-knife,
and how to cut out of a strong piece of board some things he called brackets for the back axle
to turn in, because the back axle had to turn, and how to bore holes with Mr. Man's auger,
in the back wheels, and drive them on tight, and how to bore holes in the front wheels and
put them on loose with pegs to hold them on, because the front wheels have to turn, and how
to bore a hole in the middle of the front axle and in the bottom of the big wood-box, for the
steering-rod, because the wood-box was going to be used for the body, and the steering-rod
would turn the front axle and hold it to the body at the same time.

Mr. 'Possum said that he had noticed that on Mr. Man's car the steering-rod did not stand straight
up, but slanted a good deal, which seemed to him a mistake; no doubt if Mr. Man could see their
car he would have his changed. Then the 'Coon and the Old Black Crow said, "Of course," and
that there never was anybody so smart to invent things as Mr. 'Possum, and that it was too
bad he couldn't go over and suggest thoughts to Mr. Man.

The Hollow Tree people didn't get their car done that first day, but they got it a good deal
more than half done, and could hardly wait to get at it next morning. They hurried out right
after breakfast, and Mr. 'Possum had Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow sawing, and boring, and shaving
with Mr. Man's drawing-knife, making the crank, which was a sort of double windlass that stood
up in the car over the back axle, built so two people could turn it; and there would be a strong
strap that went down through a hole in the bottom of the car and around the axle to make that
turn, too, which would drive the car. Then Mr. 'Possum showed them how to make a seat for the
front of the box, so he could sit on it and drive and steer, because that was the hardest thing
to do, while Mr. Crow and Mr. 'Coon only had to be the motor and work the windlass. Then they
got the strap off of Mr. 'Coon's trunk, because it was a very strong one, and put it on, and
tightened it up, and Mr. 'Possum said as far as he could see there was nothing more to be done
with his car, now, but to use it. Of course he might think of new things later, to attach to
it, but he didn't see how he could improve it at present, and that they'd better take it out
to the race-track and try it.

So then Mr. 'Possum got up into the seat to steer, and Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow pushed, but it
went pretty hard, until they put some grease on the wheels and transmission; after that it
went better, but squeaked so loud that you could hear it all through the Big Deep Woods, and
Mr. Rabbit came kiting over, and Mr. Robin and Mr. Squirrel came skipping among the trees,
and Mr. Turtle came waddling up from the Wide Blue Water, to see what new thing was going on
over at the Hollow Tree. And when they saw what the Hollow Tree people had made they could
hardly speak for their surprise. And when they found out how Mr. 'Possum had done all the hardest
part--the planning it and showing how--they said they had never been so proud in their lives,
just to be his friend, and they all helped push it over to the race-track, and when they got
there Mr. 'Possum invited Mr. Rabbit to sit in the front seat beside him, because Mr. Rabbit
was an author and would want to write something about it; and Mr. Robin and Mr. Squirrel and
Mr. Turtle went down the track a piece to see them dash by.

Then Mr. Crow and Mr. 'Coon took hold of the windlass, and Mr. 'Possum told them not to start
too suddenly or go too fast at first, as it might injure the transmission, which was quite
delicate. So Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow put a little strength on the windlass, but it didn't turn.
Then they put some more on it, but it didn't turn. Then they put all they had on it and it
turned just a little bit, but very slow. Mr. 'Possum said he didn't think it would be dangerous
to go a little faster, and Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow turned with every bit of strength they had,
and worked harder even than they had at sawing up the log, but still Mr. 'Possum said he didn't
believe they were going quite as fast as Mr. Man's car had traveled, and Mr. Turtle called
to them that perhaps if he and the others pushed until they got it to going well, and the machinery
warmed up, it might run better.

Mr. 'Possum didn't much like to have his car pushed, but he said that Mr. Man's car didn't
always start well, either, and very likely had to be pushed sometimes. So then Mr. Turtle and
Mr. Squirrel got one on each corner, and Mr. Robin went ahead to kick stones out of the road,
and Mr. 'Possum said "Ready!" and everybody did his best, and the Deep Woods automobile squeaked
and squealed and started down the race-track pretty fast, but not always keeping in the middle
of it, because Mr. 'Possum couldn't steer perfectly the first time, and went from one side
of the road to the other, and said it was because they didn't push evenly, and he was as proud
as could be of his great invention. Then Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Turtle gave it one big push,
and let go, and Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow ground away at the windlass their level best, and the
car went on quite a ways before it stopped. It wouldn't have stopped then if Mr. 'Coon and
Mr. Crow hadn't given clean out and let go of the crank and hung over the sides of the car
and said it was all so exciting and they were enjoying it so much that they were quite overcome.

Then Mr. Turtle said he had an idea. He said down not far from his house which stood by the
Wide Blue Water there was a smooth road with a good deal of a slant in it, and that if the
car was over there and got started down that slant it would very likely almost run itself and
move a good deal faster. So they all said yes, that was just the thing, and everybody but Mr.
'Possum took hold and pushed, because Mr. 'Possum had to steer; and by and by they got to the
slanting road, which was really quite a hill, and Mr. Rabbit got in again by Mr. 'Possum, and
Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow took hold of the windlass, and sure enough, that time, the car started
well enough, and went without any trouble at all. Mr. Turtle and the others had run a good
ways down the road to see them pass, and pretty soon they did pass, going faster and faster
every minute, and everybody cheered and waved, and Mr. 'Possum called back to Mr. 'Coon and
Mr. Crow that they could turn a little slower, so all could enjoy the scenery.

But Mr. 'Coon and Mr. Crow couldn't turn any slower, and when they tried to hold back on the
crank it just jerked them right around, and when they let go entirely they went even faster,
for that slanting road had turned into a real hill, and they were going down it as speedy as
Mr. Man would go down, and perhaps speedier, and Mr. 'Possum wasn't looking at the scenery
any more, but was holding as fast as he could to the steering-wheel; trying to keep in the
road, and not doing it the best in the world, though nobody was pushing now.

Then all at once Mr. 'Possum saw something that scared him--scared him so he nearly fainted
away, for just then they rounded a turn, going lickety-split, and right in front of him Mr.
'Possum saw the Wide Blue Water. They were headed straight for it, and Mr. 'Possum's thoughts
became confused. He could only realize two things clearly--one was that he had forgotten all
about putting brakes on his car, to stop with, and the other was that he must stop without
delay, or they would all disappear in the Wide Blue Water, and that he couldn't swim.

Mr. 'Possum wondered very rapidly what would stop them, and just then he saw a little tree
ahead, right at the side of the road, and he thought that would probably do it. He couldn't
think of anything but that, and he steered for the tree as straight as he could, which wasn't
so very straight, for he hit on the bias.

Still, that was enough to stop the car, but not the people in it. B.
Anagrams:
In the sentences below, the words in capitals are anagrams of other words. So "Battle-Screens"
is one compound word that can be made into another that uses the same letters but arranged differently.
In this case, that would be "Center-Table," but the rest of them are not compound, but single
words. 
I saw Tent Suds by the Battle-Screens puzzling over The
Mica Mats, and perplexed about Many Roots.

There wasn't really anything fatally damaged except the automobile. When Mr. 'Possum came to,
and Mr. Rabbit cleaned some of the bog off of himself, and Mr. Crow came back, and Mr. 'Coon
climbed down, and the others caught up with them, they all looked around to see what they could
find of Mr. 'Possum's invention. Some of it was in the bushes and some in the tree, and two
of the wheels they couldn't find at all. Mr. 'Coon said his trunk-strap was as good as ever,
which was more than Mr. Crow could say for his wood-box. Mr. 'Possum, who limped and seemed
suffering, said, when he looked at what they had gathered, that he felt just about as his car
looked--a good deal broken up and hardly worth carrying home. Then he said that very likely
Mr. Man had had the same experience with his first car, and that next year's model would be
different in several ways.

Then Mr. Turtle took Mr. 'Possum on his back, and everybody said it was very fine for the first
time, and certainly most exciting, and the Hollow Tree people invited all the others to the
Hollow Tree to celebrate Mr. 'Possum's great invention. They stayed quite late, and when Mr.
Rabbit started home he said he would certainly write a poem on all the events.

HOW MR. 'POSSUM'S TAIL BECAME BARE

MR. 'POSSUM RELATES SOME VERY CURIOUS FAMILY HISTORY

ONCE upon a time, when it was a very pleasant afternoon, and the Hollow Tree people were sitting
along the edge of the world, hanging their feet over and thinking, Mr. 'Possum went to sleep,
and would have nodded himself off into the Deep Nowhere if his strong, smooth tail hadn't been
quite firmly hooked around a little bush just behind him. All the others noticed it, and said
how lucky it was that a person of Mr. 'Possum's habits had a nice, useful tail like that, which
allowed him to sleep in a position that for some was thought dangerous even to be awake in.
Then they wondered how it happened that Mr. 'Possum's family had been gifted in that peculiar
way, and by and by, when he woke up, and stretched, and moved back in the shade, and leaned
against a stump to smoke, they asked him.

Mr. 'Possum said it was a very old story, because it had happened about a hundred and fifty-six
great-grandfathers back. He had heard it when he was quite small, he said, and would have to
think some, to get it straight. So then he shut his eyes and smoked very slowly, and about
the time the Deep Woods people thought he was going to sleep again he began telling.

"My family is a very ancient one," he said--"one of the oldest in the Big Deep Woods, and there
used to be only a few, even of us. That was when Mr. Painter, or Panther, as we say now, was
King of the Deep Woods, and he was very fond of our family, which helped to make them scarce,
and was one reason why they got to slipping out at night for food, when Mr. Painter was asleep.

"We were a pretty poor lot in those days, and whenever Mr. Painter took after one of my ancestors
that ancestor would make for a tree and run out on a limb that was too small to bear up Mr.
Painter, and just cling there, because Mr. Painter would climb up, too, and shake the limb,
and very often he would shake an ancestor down, like a papaw, and the only thing to do then
was to make for another tree, or if the next tree was too far, to play dead, because Mr. Painter
did not much like anything he hadn't killed himself. That is how we got the playing-dead habit,
which others sometimes try and call it 'playing 'possum,' because nobody can do it so well
as our family, and I judge some of our family didn't do it perfectly the one and only chance
they got to try it, or else Mr. Painter was smarter, or hungrier, at those times.

"Well, my ancestors got so that they could hold to those limbs very firmly with their hands
and feet, and Mr. Painter had a hard time to shake them down, though he didn't like to give
up, and would go on shaking all day, sometimes, until my folks would get tired out. They used
to try to hold and brace themselves with their tails, too, but we had just big, ornamental
tails in those days, covered with thick, bushy hair, and of very little use, like Mr. Squirrel's
and Mr. 'Coon's." 

"A woman?" asked Bagot, taking each forlorn breath into his tensed body, and leaned forward. "My
wife?"
"Yes, your wife."

"Quick, please! Please go on, Father."
"She begged me to help her. She fell to her knees at my feet, but I sent her away."
Bagot began to move around the priest, circling him the way a fierce
predator might circle his next meal.

"You coward!" he growled, sweat dripping from his brow. "You could have saved her, and you wouldn't!"

The priest lifted his hand, hoping to calm Bagot's rage.

"Please, let me finish! She left us, bemoaning her desertion by man and by God. After breakfast,
when the chief was full and satisfied, I asked how he had come to have the woman, and he told
me that she had been lost on the plains when he found her. I offered to purchase her, hoping
to return her to her husband, but he said a priest such as I had no need for a woman. He said he
planned to make her his wife when they arrived at the tribe's camp. I then offered to trade -
shot, blankets, beads - valuable things I would give in exchange for her. He still refused."

The priest hesitated, waiting for Bagot's response. Blood rushed through the man's veins, pulsing
hard against the skin of his neck. His whole body was stiff, and his face shone with sweat.

"Go on," he gasped. "For God's sake!"

"Yes," said the priest. "For the sake of God. I offered more things: a rifle, a saddle, some
flannel, but still he denied me. Again I offered more, enough to leave me a very poor man for
a very long time - all this to save the woman you drove from your house, John Bagot. I offered
all that I had in my power to give, but he would not be persuaded.

Finally, I said, 'The white men will hunt you and kill you if you marry one of their women,
and they will not rest until this is done.' And he said, 'But they will have to catch me first.'
What more could I have done?"
"You left her with them?" raged Bagot, looming over the priest. "What kind of a man are you?"

"There were twenty of them," came the gentle reply. "And there was only one of me."
"And your God?"
"Our God was there."

"Did it occur to you to offer them rum in exchange for my wife?" asked Bagot, eyes alight with
a fiery rage. "They would have traded her back for no more than ten kegs!"
"That is illegal," said the priest, quietly, and indeed, for all their passion the two men barely
raised their voices above a gentle murmur. "As a priest of my order, I have promised never to
give an Indian rum."
"A vow?" raged Bagot, pitiful in his misery. "What is a vow worth in the eyes of God against the
worth of my wife?"

"What worth is a broken vow for the sake of God's enemies against the worth of my perjured soul?
What have you, John Bagot, ever done to deserve such a thing from me?"
"Your Lord Jesus Christ would have broken such a vow to save such a woman!"
"And just what would you give," asked the priest, face carefully solemn. "What would Christ earn
from John Bagot if He had done such a thing for you?"

"Give?" asked the Bagot, shaking as his sorrow overtook him. He looked to the priest with tears
in his eyes. "For the safety of my wife I would give to your God twenty years of my life."

"Swear to it," commanded the priest, standing tall over the broken man. He held the iron crucifix
before him. "To you knees, John Bagot."
Bagot repeated the words of the priest, finding himself inspired by the commanding nature of
the man, with the blood of renewed optimism pulsing through his body.
"Madame Lucette!"
The boy sat up in his bed, suddenly waking at the sound. "Mother!"
he cried, and the wife, the mother, flew into the room and into her
husband's arms. The next moment she was at the boy's side, laughing
tears of joy and love over her missed child. 
"John Bagot," said
Father Corraine, facing the man with gentle but powerful regard. "I
have broken my vow, and bought your wife for a price of ten kegs of
rum. For this I now demand the devotion of twenty years of your life
to love and obey of God." 
The huntsman, overcome with joy, fell
to his knees once more before the priest, caught his hand, and drew
it to his lips to kiss it. 
The priest withdrew, and pressed the
crucifix against Bagot's lips. "No," he said. "This." 
Through the
room, Dominique's voice rang bright and clear. "I saw a white swan
fly away when you came through the door, Mother.

"So then Somers told them all about it. He said he was the inventor of the idea, and of the
medicine that made it work. He said he was very soon going back to his own people, but before
he went he would make up some medicine, which would make their hair and tails both curl, and
would explain how to take it.

"Well, they were so anxious about it that he began next morning, and sent out different ones
for different things--special kinds of roots, and several sorts of very twisty things, such
as grape-vine clingers, and honeysuckle, and a great lot of love-vine--that yellow stuff that
winds about everything and can choke even a ragweed to death. Then he put it all into a big
kettle, and had them pour water on it and put a fire under it, and he boiled it for two days
and nights, without letting the fire get down, and after that poured it off into a big gourd
to settle, and told them just what size swallow to take of it, and how to practise the new
habit when they felt the curling begin. For the stove bolts making holes through thin rubber,to
make them sufficiently large care should be taken to enable the bolt to pass through not touching
the rubber,if not the rubber may cling to the bolts,and gas may leak if they are turned in their
holes the rubber may turn near the bolts. under each nut, a rough
washer, prevents it from cutting into the back-board.To introduse
air or to remove it,the pad,a three-eights of an inch lock nut nipple
is introduced through the back-board,the thin paper covaring and shellacked
paper.A T connects with the nipple without a back-board.one of its
branches leads, by a rubber tube,to the pressure gauge,which is a
U-tube of glass consists mercury.An ordinary plug clock is upon the
other branch,and,beyond this,in a glass mouth-piece a rubber tube
is terminating.When it is desired to inflate the air-cusion,it is
only need to blow into mouth piece.For any work that i have undertaken
pressure of one inch of mercury is enough.

A lower pressure, is enough particularly with a good paper. A piece of common cotton flannel
with the nap outward upon the top of the pad is laid,and its edges tacked along the under edge
of the back-board. Across the top of the pad the cotton flanel is not drawn tight.The reason
for employing a cotton flannel covering is this:To the strong sunlight
the sheet rubber has been exposed for few days,it becomes worthless
and loses its strength.Protection against the destruction of the
rubber by sunlight  is given by cotton flannel.I first observed this
distruction while experimenting with convenient and  cheap type of
gauge.I used an ordinary toy balloon ,inexpensive gauge,and i could
tell,with sufficient accuracy, how much pressure i had applied,by
sweling of the balloon.This balloon ruptured for unknown reason,and
i made a substitute for it out of a round sheet of thin flat rubber,gathered
all around the circumference.Passing a string in and out drew it
tight upon the outside of a piece of three eights of an inch pipe
through holes about one-quarter of inch apart made by me,I then wonded
a string tightly over the rubber,on the pipe,and found the whole to
be air-tight.This served me for some time,on appling pressure,one
day i found a hole in the balloon which looked as if it had been
cut with a very sharp knife.We cant imagine that it has been cut like
that,fracture had occured at a line which seperated a surface in the
strong sunlight from surface in the shade,at a fold in the rubber,
I found that on further examination.I saw that change in colour and
had become whiter than before of rubber is due to continous exposure
to intense sunlight,and that the portion of the balloon had lost
its strength.I then returned the use of mercury guage,and took the
precaution to grow cover my pad with cotton flannel, as to protect
from the light and from other sources of destruction.Upon roof of
the institute consists  this pad;and exposed to all weathers.The
whole is covered again with a rubber blanket,as a protection from
the rain and snow.

 

The Athenians, and aswell the Romans, kept this exercise in abundant honour in their academies;
the Italians absorb some traces of it to this day, to their abundant advantage, as is apparent
by the allegory of our understandings with theirs. If I antipodal with a able apperception and
a asperous disputant, he presses aloft my flanks, and pricks me appropriate and left; his imaginations
activity up mine; jealousy, glory, and contention, activate and accession me up to something
aloft myself; and acceptance is a superior altogether annoying in discourse. But, as our apperception
fortifies itself by the advice of active and approved understandings, 'tis not to be bidding
how abundant it loses and degenerates by the around-the-clock business and acquaintance we
accept with beggarly and anemic spirits; there is no bane that spreads like that; I apperceive
abundantly by acquaintance what 'tis account a yard. I adulation to address and dispute, but
it is with but few men, and for myself; for to do it as a comedy and ball to abundant persons,
and to accomplish of a man's wit and words aggressive array is, in my opinion, actual awkward a
man of honour.
Folly is a bad quality; but not to be able to abide it, to affront
and vex at it, as I do, is addition array of ache little beneath alarming
than absurdity itself; and is the affair that I will now allege in
myself.

I access into conference, and altercation with abundant alternative and facility, forasmuch
as assessment meets in me with a clay actual unfit for penetration, and wherein to yield any
abysmal root; no propositions amaze me, no acceptance offends me, admitting never so adverse
to my own; there is no so barmy and absurd adorned that does not assume to me acceptable to
the assembly of animal wit. We, who bankrupt our acumen of the appropriate of determining,
attending agilely aloft the assorted opinions, and if we acclivity not our acumen to them,
yet we calmly accord them the hearing: Where one calibration is absolutely empty, I let the added
waver beneath an old wife's dreams; and I anticipate myself excusable, if I adopt the odd number;
Thursday rather than Friday; if I had rather be the twelfth or fourteenth than the thirteenth
at table; if I had rather, on a journey, see a hare run by me than
cantankerous my way, and rather accord my man my larboard bottom than
my right, if he comes to put on my stockings.

The contradictions of judgments, then, neither affront nor alter, they alone arouse and exercise,
me.

We balk correction, admitting we care to action and present ourselves to it, abnormally if
it appears in the anatomy of conference, and not of authority.



Duplicate chapter titles were removed.

Illustrations were moved from their original locations to locations nearer the caption text.

Page 44, "an ice" changed to "a nice" (a nice little person)

