Ans. Who said it? Yet it is his light and faith about it, that can make him to do it acceptably.

You ask again, 'Suppose men plead want of light in other commands?'

Ans. If they be not such, the forbearance of which, discapacitates him of membership, he may
yet be received to fellowship.

'But what if a man want light in the supper?'

Ans. There is more to be said in that case than in the other: for that is a part of that worship
which Christ hath instituted for his church, to be conversant in as a church; presenting them
as such, with their communion with their Head, and with one another as members of him. 'The
cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which
we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we being many are one bread, and
one body; for we are all partakers of that one bread' (1 Cor 10:16,17). Wherefore this being
a duty incumbent on the church, as a church; and on every member of that body as such, they
are obliged in that case more closely to deal with the members, than in that wherein they are
not so concerned; and with which as such, they have nothing to do. No man baptizeth by virtue
of his office in the church; no man is baptized by virtue of his membership there.

'But what if a man want light in his duty to the poor?'

Ans. If he doth, God must give it him; I mean to know his duty as a church member. Now I will
add, but what if he that can give a shilling, giveth nothing? I suppose all that the church
can do in that case, is but to warn, to exhort, and charge him, and to shew him his duty: and
if he neglect, to shew him, that 'He which soweth sparingly, shall reap also sparingly' (2
Cor 9:6). But to cut a man off for this, as you forwardly urge, would argue that church, at
least I think so, a little too bold with so high and weighty a censure. I plead not here for
the churl, but seek to allay your heat: and should it be granted that such deserve as you would
have it, this makes no matter to the case in hand. Now whereas you suggest, 'That moral evils
are but sins against men,' you are too much unadvised: the moral evil, as you call it, whether
you respect the breach of the first or second table, is first and immediately a sin against
God; and more insufferable, yea and damnable, than for a man for want of light to forbear either
baptism or the Lord's Supper.

But say you, 'We have now found an advocate for sin against God, in the breach of one of HIS
holy commands?'

Ans. As if none of the moral precepts were HIS. But, Sir, who have I pleaded for, in the denial
of any one ordinance of God? Yea, or for their neglect of it either? What I say, is but that
men must have light, that they may not do in darkness, or Papist-like, live by an implicit faith.

But I see you put no difference between an open breach of the law, and a forbearing that which
to him is doubtful. But I will suppose a case: There is a man wants light in baptism, yet by
his neighbour is pressed to it: he saith he seeth it not to be his duty; the other saith, he
sins if he doth it not: now seeing 'whatsoever is not of faith is sin' (Rom 14:23); what should
this man do? If you say, let him use the means: I say so too. But what, if when he hath used
it, he still continueth dark about it; what will you advise him now? If you bid him wait, do
you not encourage him to live in sin, as much as I do? Nay, and seeing you will not let him
for want of light in that, obey God in other his institutions; what is it but to say, Seeing
you live for want of light in the neglect of baptism, we will make you, while you continue
so, live, though quite against your light, in the breach of all the rest. And WHERE you are
commanded thus, you may shew the place when you find it.

Now where you urge, that you are one of them that say, 'The epistles were writ to particular
churches, and so serve nothing at all for our kind of communion.' Urging further, 'That it
will be difficult for me to prove, that they were also directed to particular saints.'

Ans. I wish there were nothing harder, that were good for me to do. But what should be the
reason that our author, with others of his opinion, should stickle so hard to prove [that]
all the epistles were wrote to particular churches? Why, because those members were, as they
think, every one baptized; and so the epistles from which we fetch our arguments for the love
and concord of saints, to be only proper to themselves.[7] But if this be true, there is virtue
indeed, and more than ever I dreamed of, in partaking of water baptism: for if that shall take
away the epistles, and consequently the whole Bible, from all that are not baptized; then are
the other churches, and also particular saints, in a very deplorable condition. For he asketh
me very devoutly, 'Whether any unbaptized persons were concerned in these epistles?' But why
would they take from us the Holy Scriptures? Verily, that we might have naught to justify our
practice withal: for if the Scriptures belong only to baptized believers, they then belong
not to the rest; and in truth, if they could persuade us to yield them this grant, we should
but sorrily justify our practice. But I would ask these men, 'If the word of God came out from
them? Or if it came to them only?' (1 Cor 14:36). Or, whether Christ hath not given his whole
word to every one that believeth, whether they be baptized, or in, or out of church fellowship
(James 17:14). Or, whether every saint in some sort, hath not the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
which are the Scriptures and their power? Would to God they had learned more modesty, than
thus to take from all others, and appropriate to themselves, and that for the sake of their
observing a circumstance in religion, so high, and glorious a privilege.

But we will come a little to proof: what church will this author find in Rome, that time the
epistle was sent to the brethren there, besides that church that was in Aquila's house, although
many more saints were then in the city? (Rom 16:5). To all there, to all in that city, beloved
of God, and that are converted to the Lord Jesus Christ. A church there was in Aquila's house,
and that there were many more saints besides, is, and that by the text, as manifest. Besides,
considering the rules that are given them in the 14th and 15th chapters about their receiving
one another, doth yet strongly suggest to me, that they were not yet in fellowship, but as
it were now about it, when Paul wrote his epistle to them.

The first epistle written to Corinth, was also wrote to all them 'that in every place call
upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord' (1:2). But it will be hard work for our author to make
it manifest, that none in those days did call on the name of our Lord, but those that were
first baptized. The second epistle also, was not only written to the church at Corinth, but
also to 'all the saints which were in all Achaia' (2 Cor 1:1). To the Galatians and Thessalonians
indeed, his salutation was only to the churches there: But the three epistles before were as
well to all other [saints]: As also that to the Ephesians, Philippians, and Colossians, in
which the faithful and SAINTS in Christ Jesus were also every one comprehended. Besides, to
what particular church was the epistle to the Hebrews wrote? Or the epistle of James? Both
those of Peter, and the first of John? Nay, that of John was wrote to some at that time out
of fellowship, 'that also may have fellowship with [us]' the church (1:1-4). So that these
brethren must not have all the scriptures. We have then a like privilege with all saints, to
use the scriptures for our godly edifying, and to defend ourselves thereby, from the assaults
of those that would make spoil of us. But to pass this, and come to the next. And did ever
God send an ordinance to be a pest and plague to his people?'

I answer: I said not that God did send it for any such end at all; God's ordinances are none
of this in themselves: nor if used as, and for the end for which God sent them. But yet both
baptism, and the supper of the Lord, have, by being wrested out of their place, been a great
affliction to the godly both in this and other ages. What say you to breaking of bread, which
the devil, by abusing, made an engine in the hand of Papists, to burn, starve, hang and draw
thousands? What say you to John of Leyden? What work did he make by the abuse of the ordinance
of water baptism? And I wish this age had not given cause, through the church-rending spirits
that some are possessed with, to make complaint of this matter; who have also had for their
engine the baptism with water. Yea, yourself, Sir, so far as I can perceive, could you get
but the opportunity; yourself (I say) under pretence of this innocent ordinance, as you term
it, would not stick to make inroads, and outroads too, in all the churches, that suit not your
fancy, in the land. For you have already been bold to affirm, 'That all those that have baptized
infants, ought to be ashamed and repent, before they be showed the pattern of the house.' And
what is this but to threaten, that could you have your will of them, you would quickly take
from them their present church privileges, and let them see nothing thereof, till those qualifications,
especially subjection to water baptism, was found to attend each of them.

As to the persons you speak of, 'Who have rent churches in pieces, by making preaching by method,
doctrine, reason and use, to be anti-christian': Or, because they could not have other ministrations
performed after their fancies 'the imprudence of such with yourselves, hath been heart-breaking
to many a gracious soul; an high occasion of stumbling to the weak, and a reproach to the ways
of the Lord.' That it may be prudently shunned, I referred you then for proof, to what should
be offered after: but at this you cry out, and so pass it.

And now, reader, although this author hath thus objected against some passages in this my first
argument for communion with persons unbaptized; yet the body of my argument he misseth and
passeth over, as a thing not worth the answering; whether because he forgot, or because he
was conscious to himself, that he knew not what to do therewith, I will not now determine.
1. I effectually prove, 'That baptism is not the initiating ordinance.' 2. I prove, 'That though
it was, yet the case may so fall out, that members might be received without it.' 3. I prove,
'That baptism makes no man a visible saint, nor giveth any right to church fellowship.' 4.
I prove, 'That faith, and a life becoming the law of the ten commandments, should be the chief
and most solid argument with true churches to receive saints to fellowship.'[8] 5. I prove,
'That circumcision in the flesh, which was the entering ordinance of old, was a type of circumcision
in the heart,' &c. These things, with others, our author letteth pass; although in the proof
of them abideth the strength of this first argument; to which I must entreat him in his next,
to cast his eye, and give fair answer; as also to the scriptures on which each are built, or
he must suffer me to say, I am abused. Further, I make a question upon three scriptures, Whether
all the saints, even in the primitive times, were baptized with water? to which also he answereth
nothing; whereas he ought to have done it, if he will take in hand to confute. The scriptures
are 1 Corinthians 1:14-16; Romans 6:3; Galatians 3:27. Yet were they effectually answered,
my argument is nothing weakened.

You come to my second argument, drawn from Ephesians 4:4-6. Upon which a little more now to
enlarge, and then to take notice of your objection. The apostle then in that fourth of the
Ephesians, exhorteth the church there 'with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering,
forbearing one another in love; endeavouring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of
peace' (vv 2,3). This done, he presents them with such arguments, as might fasten his exhortation
to purpose upon them.

1. The first is, because the body is ONE; There is 'one body'; therefore they should not divide.
For if the church of Christ be a body, there ought not to be a rent or schism among them (1
Cor 12).

2. His second argument is, There is 'one spirit,' or one quickening principle by which the
body is made to live; for having asserted before that Christ hath indeed a body, it was meet
that he showed also, that this body hath life, and motion. Now this spirit, being first, and
chiefly, in the head, therefore none other but those that hold the head can have this nourishment
ministered to them: besides, this is the spirit that knits the body together, and makes it
increase with the increase of God (Col 2:19). This is 'the unity of the spirit' which he before
exhorts them to keep.

3. The third argument is, Because their hope is also but one. 'Even as ye are called [saith
he] in one hope of your calling': as who should say, My brethren, if you are called with one
calling, if your hope, both as to the grace of hope, and also the object, be but one: if you
hope for one heaven, and for one eternal life: then maintain that unity of the spirit, and
hope, while here, in love, 'and the bond of peace' (Eph 4:3).

4. The fourth argument is, There is 'one Lord,' or husband, or prince, to whom this church
belongs: therefore if we have husbands, but one, Lord and prince but one, let us not read into
many parties, as if we had many husbands, lords, and princes, to govern us, as his wife, his
house, and kingdom. 'Is Christ divided?' (1 Cor 1:13).

5. The fifth argument is, There is 'one faith,' by which we all stand justified by one Lord
Jesus Christ; 'one faith' by which we escape the wrath of God; 'one faith' by which only they
that have it are blessed; yea, seeing there is but 'one faith,' by which we are all put into
one way of salvation, let us hold together as such.

6. The sixth argument is, There is 'one baptism.' Now we are come to the pinch, viz., Whether
it be that of water, or no? which I must positively deny. (1.) Because water baptism hath nothing
to do in a church, as a church; it neither bringeth us into the church, nor is any part of
our worship when we come there; how then can the peace and unity of the church depend upon
water baptism? Besides, he saith expressly, It is the 'unity of the spirit,' not water, that
is here intended: and the arguments brought to enforce it, are such as wholly and immediately
relate to the duty of the church, as a church. (2.) Further, That other text, that treateth
of our being baptized into a body, saith expressly it is done by the spirit: 'For by one spirit
are we all baptized into one body' (1 Cor 12:13). Here is the church presented as under the
notion of 'one body'; here is a baptism mentioned, by which they are brought, or initiated
into this body: Now that this is the baptism of water, is utterly against the words of the
text; 'For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body.' Besides, if the baptism here be
of water, then is it the initiating ordinance; but the contrary I have proved, and this author
stands by my doctrine. So then, the baptism here respecting the church as one body, and water,
having nothing to do to enter men into the church, nor to command them to practise it as a
church, in order to their peace or communion, or respecting the worship of God as such: and
(I say again) the baptism in the sixth argument, being urged precisely for no other purpose,
but with respect to the church's peace as a body; it must needs be THAT baptism, by virtue
of which, they were initiated, and joined together in one; and that baptism being only that
which the Spirit executeth; this therefore is that one baptism.

7. The other argument is also effectual; there is 'One God and Father of all, who is above
all, and through all, and in you all' (Eph 4:6). If we are 'one body'; if to it there be but
'one spirit'; if we have but 'one hope, one faith,' and be all baptized by 'one spirit' into
that 'one' body; and if we have but 'one Lord, one God,' and he in every one of us; let us
be also 'one': and let them that are thus qualified, both join together, and hold in one.

But our author against this, objecteth, That, 'now I employ my pen against every man; and give
the lie to all expositors, for they hold this one baptism, to be none other than that of water.'[9]

Ans. What if I should also send you to answer those expositors that expound certain scriptures
for infant baptism, and that by them brand us for anabaptists; must this drive you from your
belief of the truth? EXPOSITORS I reverence, but must live by mine own faith (Habb 2:4). God
hath no where bound himself to them more than to others, with respect to the revelation of
his mind in his word. But it becomes not you to run thus to expositors, who are, as to your
notions in many things, but of yesterday: 'to the law, and to the testimony' (Isa 8:20): for
'Out of the mouth of babes' the Lord hath 'ordained strength' (Psa 8:2).

But you bid me tell you, 'What I mean by spirit baptism?'

Ans. Sir, you mistake me, I treat not here of our being baptized with the Spirit, with respect
to its coming from heaven into us; but of that act of the spirit, when come, which baptizeth
us into a body or church. It is one thing to be baptized with the Spirit in the first sense;
and another to be baptized by it in the sense I treat of: for the Spirit to come upon me, is
one thing; and for that when come, to implant, embody, or baptize me into the body of Christ,
is another. Your question therefore is grounded on a mistake, both of my judgment, and the
words of the apostle. Wherefore thus I soon put an end to your objections. For the Spirit to
come down upon me, is one thing; and for the Spirit to baptize, or implant me into the church,
is another: for to be possessed with the spirit, is one thing; and to be led by that spirit,
is another. I conclude then; seeing the argument taken from that one baptism, respecteth church
fellowship properly; and seeing water baptism meddleth not with it as such; it is the other,
even that in 1 Corinthians 12:16 that is here intended, and no other.

But you add, 'If nothing but extraordinary gifts are called the baptism of the Spirit in a
strict sense; then that baptism (1 Cor 12) must be water baptism, as well as that in the Ephesians.'

Hold: you make your conclusions before you have cause; first, prove that in the Ephesians to
be meant of water baptism, and that the baptism in 1 Corinthians 12:16 is the baptism you would
have it; and then conclude my argument void. That it is the baptism of the Holy Ghost according
to the common notion, I say not; for you to assert it is the baptism of water, gives the lie
to the text: but that it is an act of the Holy Ghost, baptizing the saints into a body, or
church, you will hardly be able to make the contrary appear to be truth. 'But behold, while
here you would have this to be baptism with water, how you contradict and condemn your own
notion: you say water baptism is not the entering ordinance; yet the baptism here is such as
baptizeth us into a body: wherefore before you say next time that this in 1 Corinthians 12:16
is meant of water baptism; affirm that water baptism is the initiating or entering ordinance,
that your opinion and doctrine may hang better together.'

We come to my third argument; which is to prove, that it is lawful to hold church communion
with the godly sincere believer, though he hath not be baptized with water, because he hath
the DOCTRINE of baptisms (Heb 6:2). 'This our author calleth one of the strangest paradoxes
that he hath LIGHTLY observed.'

Ans. How light he is in his observation of things, I know not; this I am sure, the apostle
makes mention of the doctrine of baptisms; now that the doctrine of a man, or ordinance, is
the signification of what is preached, is apparent to very sense. What is Christ's doctrine,
Paul's doctrine, scripture doctrine, but the truth couched under the words that are spoken?
so the doctrine of baptism, yea and the doctrine of the Lord's supper, are those truths or
mysteries that such ordinances preach unto us. For if we have been planted together in the
likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection' (3-5). What is
here discoursed, but the doctrine of or that which baptism teacheth; with an intimation; that
that was the chief, for the sake of which that shadow was instituted; as also that they that
have the doctrine, or that which is signified thereby, they only must reign with Christ.

Again, This is that which he seeketh for among the Corinthians; 'If the dead rise not at all,'
[saith he], 'why then were you baptized for the dead?' (1 Cor 15:29). Why then were you baptized?
What did baptism teach you? What is here in chief asserted, but the doctrine only which water
baptism preacheth? with an intimation, that they, and they only, are the saved of the Lord,
that have heard, received, and that live in this doctrine.

The same may be said of the Lord's supper, it also hath its doctrine. But against this our
author objecteth, saying, 'That this is called the doctrine of baptism, I am yet to learn.'

Ans. Your ignorance of the truth makes it not an error: but I pray you, what is the doctrine
of baptism, if not that which baptism teacheth, even that which is signified thereby? As that
is the doctrine of Christ, and the scriptures; which he and they teach as the mind of God.

But you say, 'I took the doctrine of baptism to be the command that a believer should be baptized,
for such ends as the gospel expresseth.'

Ans. To assert that a figurative ordinance is of God, is one thing; but the doctrinal signification
of that ordinance is another. A man may preach the command, yet none of the doctrine which
baptism preacheth. The doctrine lieth not in the command, but the mystery discovered to faith,
by the act.

You object, 'If the resurrection be the doctrine of baptism, why doth the apostle make that,
and the doctrine of baptism, things distinct, in Hebrews 6.'

Ans. The resurrection simply considered, is not the doctrine of baptism, but Christ's, and
mine by him. Besides, there is more in it than the mystery of this resurrection; there is my
death first, and then my rising with him.

But you add, 'Under the law, all the sacrifices of that dispensation, with their sabbaths,
were types of that Christ, who was the substance of all those ceremonies. If any of them then
that professed faith in the Messias to come, should upon scruples, or want of pretended light,
neglect the whole, or part of that typical worship; why may not a man say of them, as this
advocate of the practice under debate, they had the richer and better sacrifice.'

Ans. First, that the brethren which refuse to be baptized, as you and I would have them, refuse
it for want of pretended light, becomes you not to imagine, unless your boldness will lead
you to judge, that all men want sincerity, that come not up to our judgment. Their conscience
may be better than either yours or mine; yet God, for purposes best known to himself, may forbear
to give them conviction of their duty in this particular. But what, because they are not baptized,
have they not Jesus Christ? Or, must we now be afraid to say that Christ is better than water
baptism?[10] Yea, God himself for the sake of this better thing, hath suffered in his church
a suspension of some of his ordinances, yet owned them for his truly constituted congregation.
What say you to the church in the wilderness? I touched you with it in my first, but perceive
you listed not to meddle therewith. That church received members, the way which was not prescribed
by, but directly against the revealed mind of God; yet stood a true church, their members true
members; also that church in that state, was such before whom, among whom, and to whom God
continually made known himself to be their God, and owned them for his peculiar treasure.

And now I am fallen upon it, let me a little enlarge: this church, according to the then instituted
worship of God, had circumcision for their entering ordinance (Gen 17:13,14), without which
it was unlawful to receive any into fellowship with them: yea, he that without it was received,
was to be cut off, and cast out again. Further, as to the passover, the uncircumcised were
utterly forbidden to eat it (Exo 12:48). Now if our brethren had as express prohibition to
justify their groundless opinion, as here is to exclude the uncircumcised from the communion
of the church and the passover: I say, if they could find it written, 'No unbaptized person
shall enter, no unbaptized person shall eat of the supper'; what a noise would they make about
it? But yet let the reader observe, that although circumcision was the entering ordinance,
and our author saith baptism is not; yea, though this church was expressly forbidden to receive
the uncircumcised, and we have not a syllable now to forbid the unbaptized, yet this church
received members without, and otherwise than by this entering ordinance. They also admitted
them to the passover; yea, entertained, retained, and held communion with them so long as forty
years without it. I say again, That the number of this sort of communicants was not so few
as six hundred thousand. Moreover, to these uncircumcised was the land of Canaan given, yea,
a possession of part thereof before they were circumcised; but the old circumcised ones might
not enter therein. I am the larger in this, because our author hath overlooked my first mention
thereof. And now I ask, What was the reason that God continued his presence with this church
notwithstanding this transgression? Was it not because they had that richer and better thing,
'the Lord Jesus Christ?' For they did all eat of that spiritual bread, and drink of that 'spiritual
rock that followed them: and that rock was Christ' (1 Cor 10:3,4). I confess I find them under
rebukes and judgments in the wilderness, and that they were many times threatened to be destroyed;
but yet I find not so much as one check for their receiving of members uncircumcised. Further,
in the New Testament, where we have a catalogue of their sins, and also of their punishment
for them; we find not a word about circumcision, nor the smallest intimation of the least rebuke
for neglecting the entering ordinance (1 Cor 10:5-10). I will therefore say of them, as I have
also said of my brethren, 'They had the richer and better thing.'

But you object, 'That this putteth the whole of God's instituted worship both under the law
and gospel, to the highest uncertainties.'

Ans. This putteth our opposers out of their road, and quencheth the flame of their unwarrantable
zeal. For if the entering ordinance, if the ordinance without which no man might be added to
the church, was laid aside for forty years; yea, if more than six hundred thousand did communicate
with them without it: I say again, If they did it, and held communion with God, that notwithstanding;
yea, and had not, that we read of, all that time one small check for so doing; why may not
we now enter communion, hold communion, maintain communion, church communion, without being
judged, and condemned by you? because we cannot for want of light be all baptized before; especially
considering baptism makes no man a saint, is not the entering ordinance, is no part of the
worship of God enjoined the church as a church. To conclude, although we receive members unbaptized
[in after], we leave not God's instituted worship at uncertainties, especially what he hath
commanded us as his church; we only profess our want of light in some things; but see no word
to warrant the forbearance of our duty in all, for want of persuasion in one.

You object, 'I call baptism a circumstance, an outward-shew I NICKNAME it.'

Ans. Deep reproof! but why did you not shew me my evil in thus calling it, when opposed to
the substance, and the thing signified? Is it the substance, is it the thing signified? And
why may not I give it the name of a shew; when you call it a symbol, and compare it to a gentleman's
livery?

But you say, I call it an outward shew.

Ans. Is it an inward one? What is it?

'It is a command.'

Ans. But doth that install it in that place and dignity, that was never intended for it?

You object further, 'They cannot have the doctrine of baptism that understand not our way of
administering it.'

This is your mistake, both of the doctrine and thing itself. But if you will not SCORN to take
notice of me, I advise you again to consider, That a man may find baptism to be commanded,
may be informed who ought to administer it; may also know the proper subject; and that the
manner of baptizing is dipping; and may desire to practise it because it is commanded, and
yet know nothing of what water baptism preacheth; or of the mystery baptism sheweth to faith.
But that the doctrine of baptism is not the practice of it, not the outward act, but the thing
signified; and that every believer hath that, must argue you more than too bold to deny it.

But say you, 'Who taught you to divide betwixt Christ and his precepts, that you word it at
such a rate? That he that hath the one,' &c.

Ans. To say nothing of faith, and the word; verily reason itself teacheth it. For if Christ
be my righteousness, and not water; if Christ be my advocate, and not water; if there be that
good and blessedness in Christ, that is not in water; then is Jesus Christ better than water;
and also in these to be eternally divided from water; unless we will make them co-saviours,
co-advocates, and such as are equally good and profitable to men.

But say you, 'I thought that he that hath Christ, had an orderly right to all Christ's promises
and precepts; and that the precepts of Christ, are part of the riches that a believer hath
in and by Christ.'

Ans. A believer hath more in Christ than either promise or precept; but all believers know
not all things, that of God are given to them by Christ. But must not they use, and enjoy what
they know, because they know not all. Or must they neglect the weightier matters, because they
want mint, and anise, and cummin? Your pretended orderly right is your fancy; there is not
a syllable in the whole bible, that bids a Christian to forbear his duty in other things, because
he wanteth, as you term it, the symbol, or water baptism.

But say you, 'He that despiseth his birthright of ordinances, our church privileges, will be
found to be a profane person, as Esau in God's account.'

Baptism is not the privilege of a church as such. But what? are they all Esau's indeed? Must
we go to hell, and be damned, for want of faith in water baptism? And take notice, I do not
plead for a despising of baptism, but a bearing with our brother, that cannot do it for want
of light. The best of baptism he hath, viz. the signification thereof: he wanteth only the
outward shew, which if he had, would not prove him a truly visible saint; it would not tell
me he had the grace of God in his heart; it is no characteristical note to another of my Sonship
with God. But why did you not answer these parts of my argument? Why did you only cavil at
words? which if they had been left out, the argument yet stands good. 'He that is not baptized
[in water], if yet a true believer, hath the DOCTRINE of baptism; yea, he ought to have it
before he be convicted, it is his duty to be baptized, or else he playeth the hypocrite. There
is therefore no difference between that believer that is, and he that is not yet baptized with
water; but only his going down into the water, there to perform an outward ceremony, the substance
of which he hath already; which yet he is not commanded to do with respect to membership with
the church; but to obtain by that, further understanding of his privilege by Christ, which
before he made profession of, and that as a visible believer.'[11]

But to come to my fourth argument, which you so tenderly touch as if it burnt your fingers:
'I am bold [say I] to have communion with visible saints as before, because God hath communion
with them, whose example in the case we are strictly commanded to follow.' 'Receive ye one
another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God' (Rom 15:7).

You say to this, 'That it is Paul's direction to the church at Rome how to receive their brethren
church members.'

I answer, 1. What? are not the poor saints now in this city? are not they concerned in these
instructions? or is not the church by these words at all directed how to carry it to those
that were not yet in fellowship? A bold assertion! but grounded upon nothing, but that you
would have it so. 2. But how will you prove that there was a church, a rightly constituted
church, at Rome, besides that in Aquila's house? (chap. 16). Neither doth this epistle, nor
any other in the whole book of God affirm it. Besides, since Paul in this last chapter saluteth
the church, as in this man's house, but the other, only as particular saints, it giveth further
ground of conviction to you, that those others were not as yet imbodied in such a fellowship.
3. But suppose there was another church besides; it doth not therefore follow, that the apostle
exhorteth them only to receive persons already in fellowship; but 'Him,' even every 'Him that
is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations' (14:1). 4. Suppose again,
the receiving here exhorted to, be such as you would have it, yet the rule by which they are
directed to do it, is that by which we perceive that Christ hath received them. But Christ
did not receive them by [water] baptism, but as given to him by the Father. Him, therefore,
concerning whom we are convinced, that he by the Father is given to Christ, 'Him should we
receive.' 5. But what need I grant you, that which cannot be proved? yet if you could prove
it, it availeth nothing at all; because you may not, cannot, ought not to dare to limit the
exhortation to receiving of one another into each other's affections only; and not also receiving
saints into communion.

But you object: 'To make God's receiving the rule of our receiving, in all cases will not hold.'

Ans. Keep to the thing, man: if it hold in the case in hand, it is enough, the which you have
not denied. And that it holds thus, is plain, because commanded. But let the reader know, that
your putting in that way of his receiving which is invisible to us; is but an unhandsome straddling
over my argument, which treateth only of a visible receiving; such as is manifest to the church.
This you knew, but sought by evading to turn the reader from considering the strength of this
my argument. 'The receiving then [said I] because it is set as an example to the church, is
such as must needs be visible unto them; and is best discovered by that word that describeth
the visible saint. Whoso then you can judge a visible saint, one that walketh with God, you
may, nay ought to judge by the same word, that God hath received him. Now him that God receiveth,
him should you receive.' But will any object; they cannot believe that God receiveth the unbaptized
saints; I will not suppose you so much stupefied, and therefore shall make no answer.

But you seem to be much offended, because I said, 'Vain man! [It is say you] 'Because you intend
by this the brethren of the baptized way.'

Ans. If they be vain men, and set up their OWN order, how straight soever they make it, they
are worthy to be reproved; if 'they have rejected the word of the Lord; what wisdom is in them?'
(Jer 8:9). And as you suggest the first, I affirm the second. But if you would be justified
in excluding those, with whom yet you see God hath communion, because they yet see not a shadow
with you; produce the scripture for such order, that we may believe it is the order of God.
But deal fairly, lest we shew your nakedness, and others see your shame. You tell me of the
order of the Colossians (2:5). But if you can prove that that church refused to hold communion
with that saint whom they knew to be received by Christ, and held communion with him [Christ],
or that none but those that are baptized [in water] are received by and hold communion with
him, then you justify your order. I nowhere said it; but know that to glorify God with our
bodies, respecteth chiefly far higher and more weighty things, than that of water baptism;
'Whatsoever is not of faith is sin' (Rom 14:23); and to set up an ordinance, though an ordinance
of God, that by it the church may be pulled in pieces, or the truly visible saints excluded
communion with their brethren; I say again, to make water baptism a bar and division between
saint and saint, every whit otherwise gracious and holy alike: This is like fasting 'for strife
and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness' (Isa 58:4); and is not to be found within
the whole bible, but is wholly an order of your own devising. As to the peace you make an objection
about you have granted me what I intended; and now I add further, that for church peace to
be founded in water baptism, or any other external rite, not having to do with the church,
as a church, is poor peace indeed: Church peace is founded in blood; and love to each other
for Jesus' sake (Phil 2:1-4). Bearing with, and forbearing one another, in all things circumstantial,
that concern not church worship as such (Eph 4:31,32). And in my other [treatise] I have proved
that baptism is not such, and therefore ought not to be urged to make rents and divisions among
brethren.

But you ask, 'Is my peace maintained in a way of disobedience? and conclude if it be, you fear
it is false.'

Ans. If the first were true; you need not to doubt of the second; but it may be thought he
hath little to say in the controversy, who is forced to stuff out his papers, with such needless
prattles as these.

My fifth argument is, 'That a failure in such a circumstance as water baptism, doth not unchristian
us'; this you are compelled to grant. And I conclude with your words, persons ought to be Christians
before visible Christians; such as any congregation in the land may receive to communion with
themselves, because God hath shewed us that he has received them. But my argument you have
not denied; nor meddled with the conclusion at all; which is, 'That therefore, even because
a failure here, doth not unchristian us, doth not make us insincere'; and I add, doth not lay
us open to any revealed judgment or displeasure of God (if it doth, shew where) therefore it
should not, it ought not to make us obnoxious to the displeasure of the church of God.

But you say, 'I rank gospel precepts, with Old Testament abrogated ceremonies.'

Ans. He therefore that doth it according to his light, doth well; and he that doth it not,
for want of light, doth not ill; for he approveth his heart to be sincere with God, even by
that his forbearance. And I tell you again, It is nowhere recorded, that this man is under
any revealed threatening of God, for his not being baptized with water, he not having light
therein, but is admitted through his grace to as many promises as you. If therefore he be not
a partaker of that circumstance, yet he is of that liberty, and mercy, by which you stand with God.

But that I practise instituted worship, upon the same account as Paul did circumcision, and
shaving, is too bold for you to presume to imagine. What? because I will not suffer water to
carry away the epistles from the Christians; and because I will not let water baptism be the
rule, the door, the bolt, the bar, the wall of division between the righteous, and the righteous;
must I therefore be judged to be a man without conscience to the worship of Jesus Christ? The
Lord deliver me from superstitious and idolatrous thoughts about any of the ordinances of Christ
and of God. But my fifth argument standeth against you untouched; you have not denied, much
less confuted the least syllable thereof.

You tell me my sixth argument is, Edification.

Ans. If it be, why is it not embraced? Now why did you not take this argument in pieces, and
answer those scriptures, on which the strength thereof depends; but if to contest, and fall
out about water baptism, be better than to edify the house of God, produce the texts, that
we may be informed.

You say, 'Edification is the end of all communion, but all things must be done in order, orderly.'

Ans. When you have proved that there is no such thing as an orderly edifying of the church,
without water baptism precede, then it will be time enough to think you have said something.

You add, 'Edification as to church fellowship being a building up, doth suppose the being of
a church; but pray you shew us a church without baptism.'

Ans. See here the spirit of these men, who for the want of water baptism, have at once unchurched
all such congregations of God in the world; but against this I have, and do urge, That water
baptism giveth neither being, nor well-being to a church, neither is any part of that instituted
worship of God, that the church, as such, should be found in the practice of. Therefore her
edification as a church may, yea and ought to be attained unto without it.

But you say, 'Shew us a New Testament church without baptism.'

Ans. What say you to the church all along the Revelation quite through the reign of Antichrist?
Was that a New Testament church, or no? Again, If baptism be without the church, as a church,
if it hath nothing to do in the constituting of a church; if it be not the door of entrance
into the church, if it be no part of church-worship as such; then, although all the members
of that church were baptized, yet the church is a church without water baptism. But all the
churches in the New Testament were such: therefore, &c. Again, If baptism respect believers,
as particular persons only; if it respects their own conscience only; if it make a man no visible
believer to me, then it hath nothing to do with church-membership. Because, that which respects
my own person only, my own conscience only: that which is no character of my visible saintship
to the church, cannot be an argument unto them to receive me into fellowship with themselves.
But this is true. Therefore, &c.

You proceed, 'If by edification, be meant the private increase of grace, in one another, in
the use of private means, as private Christians in meeting together; how doth the principle
you oppose hinder that? Endeavour to make men as holy as you can, that they may be fitted for
church-fellowship, when God shall shew them the orderly way to it.'

Ans. What a many private things have we now brought out to public view? Private Christians,
private means, and a private increase of grace. But, Sir, Are none but those of your way the
public Christians? Or, ought none but them that are baptized to have the public means of grace?
Or, must their graces be increased by none but private means? Was you awake now? Or, are you
become so high in your own phantasies, that none have, or are to have but private means of
grace? And, are there no public Christians, or public christian meetings, but them of your
way? I did not think that all but baptists, should only abide in holes.

But you find fault because I said, 'Edification is greater than contesting about water baptism.'

Ans. If it be not, confute me; if it be, forbear to cavil: water baptism, and all God's ordinances,
are to be used to edification; not to beget heats and contentions among the godly, wherefore
edification is best.

Object. 'I had thought that the preaching, and opening baptism, might have been reckoned a
part of our edification.'

Ans. The act of water baptism hath not place in church worship, neither in whole nor in part;
wherefore pressing it upon the church is to no purpose at all.

Object. 'Why may you not as well say, that edification is greater than breaking of bread.'

Ans. So it is, else that should never have been instituted to edify withal; that which serveth,
is not greater than he that is served thereby. Baptism and the Lord's supper both, were made
for us, not we for them; wherefore both were made for our edification, but no one for our destruction.
But again, The Lord's supper, not baptism, is for the church, as a church; therefore as we
will maintain the church's edifying, that must be maintained in it; yea, sued oft, to shew
the Lord's death till he come (1 Cor 11:22-26). Besides, because it is a great part of church
worship, as such, therefore it is pronounced blessed, the Lord did openly bless it before he
gave it; yea and we ought to bless it also; 'The cup of blessing which we bless,' not to say
more. Therefore your reasoning from the one to the other will not hold.

Object. 'How comes contesting for water baptism to be so much against you?'

Ans. First, Because weak brethren cannot bear it; whom yet we are commanded to receive, but
not to doubtful disputation; doubtful to them, therefore for their sakes, I must forbear it
(Rom 14:1). Secondly, Because I have not seen any good effect, but the contrary, wherever such
hot spirits have gone before me: 'For where envying and strife is, there is confusion,' or
tumults, 'and every evil work' (James 3:16).[12] Thirdly, Because by the example of the Lord,
and Paul, we must consider the present state of the church, and not trouble them with what
they cannot bear (John 16:13; 1 Cor 3:1-3). I conclude then, edification in the church is to
be preferred above what the church, as a church, hath nothing to do withal. 'All things, dearly
beloved, are for our edifying' (1 Cor 14:5, 12:26; 2 Cor 12:19; Eph 4:16; Rom 15:2; 1 Cor 14:3;
2 Cor 10:8, 13:10; Rom 14:19). Before I wind up this argument, I present you with several instances,
shewing that the breach of [some of] God's precepts have been borne with, when they come in
competition with edification. As first, That of Aaron, who let the offering for sin be burnt,
that should have indeed been eaten (Lev 10:16-20). Yet because he could not do it to his edification,
Moses was content. But the law was thereby transgressed, 'The priest that offereth it for sin,
shall eat it' (6:26).

To this you reply, 'That was not a constant, continued forbearing of God's worship, but a suspending
of it for a season.'

Ans. We also suspend it but for a season; when persons can be baptized to their edification,
they have the liberty. But, This was not a bare suspension, but a flat transgression of the
law. 'Ye should indeed have eaten it.' Yet Moses was content (Lev 10:16-20).

But say you, 'Perhaps it was suspended upon just and legal grounds, though not expressed.'

Ans. The express rule was against it; 'Ye should indeed [said Moses] have eaten it in the holy
place: as I commanded' (v 18). But good Sir, are you now for unwritten verities? for legal
grounds, though not expressed? I will not drive you further, here is Rome enough. As for Eldad
and Medad, it cannot be denied, but that their edifying of the people, was preferred before
their conforming to every circumstance (Num 11:16-26).

You add, 'That Paul for a seeming low thing did withstand Peter.'

Sir, If you make but a seeming low thing of dissembling, and teaching others so to do, especially
where the doctrine of justification is endangered, I cannot expect much good conscience from
you (Gal 2:11-13).

As for your answer to the case of Hezekiah, it is faulty in two respects: 1. For that you make
the passover a type of the Lord's supper, when it was only a type of the body and blood of
the Lord: 'For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us' (1 Cor 5:7). 2. In that you make
it an example to you to admit persons unprepared to the Lord's supper.

Ans. May you indeed receive persons into the church unprepared for the Lord's supper; yea,
unprepared for that, with other solemn appointments? For so you word it. O what an engine have
you made of water baptism. Thus, gentle reader, while this author teareth us in pieces for
not making [water] baptism the orderly rule for receiving the godly and conscientious into
communion; he can receive persons if baptized, though unprepared for the supper, and other
solemn appointments? I would have thee consult the place, and see if it countenanceth such
an act. That a man who pleadeth for a water baptism above the peace and edification of the
church, ought to be received, although unprepared, into the church to the Lord's supper, and
other solemn appointments; especially considering the nature of right church constitution,
and the severity of God towards those that came unprepared to his table of old (1 Cor 11:28-30).
A riddle indeed, That the Lord should, without a word, so severely command, that all which
want light in baptism, be excluded church privileges; and yet against his word, admit of persons
unprepared, to the Lord's table, and other solemn appointments.

But good Sir, why so short-winded? why could not you make the same work with the other scriptures,
as you did with these? I must leave them upon you unanswered; and standing by my argument conclude,
That if laws and ordinances of old have been broken, and the breach of them born with, when
yet the observation of outward things was more strictly commanded than now, if the profit and
edification of the church come in competition; how much more, may not we have communion, church
communion, when no law of God is transgressed thereby. And note, That all this while I plead
not, as you, for persons unprepared, but godly, and such as walk with God.

We come now to my seventh argument, for communion with the godly, though unbaptized persons;
which you say is LOVE. Yea, there are ten arguments in this one, which you have not so much
as touched; but thus object,

'That man that makes affection the rule of his walking, rather than judgment, it is no wonder
if he go out of the way.'

Ans. Love to them, we are persuaded that God hath received, is love that is guided by judgment;
and to receive them that are such, because God hath bidden us (Rom 14), is judgment guided
by rule. My argument therefore hath forestalled all your noise, and standeth still on its legs
against you. As to the duties of piety and charity, you boast of, sound not a trumpet, tell
not your left hand of it; we are talking now of communion of saints, church communion, and
I plead, that to love, and hold together as such, is better than to break in pieces for want
of water baptism. My reason is, because we are exhorted in all things to put on love; the love
of church communion: contrariwise you oppose, Above all things put on water. For the best saint
under heaven that hath not that, with him you refuse communion. Thus you make baptism, though
no church ordinance, a bar to shut out the godly, and a trap-door to let the unprepared into
churches, to the Lord's supper, and other solemn appointments.

But you object, 'Must our love to the unbaptized indulge them in an act of disobedience? Cannot
we love their persons, parts, graces, but we must love their sins?'

Ans. We plead not for indulging, 'But are there not with you, even with you, sins against the
Lord your God?' (2 Chron 28:10). But why can you indulge the baptists in many acts of disobedience?
For to come unprepared into the church, is an act of disobedience: To come unprepared to the
supper is an act of disobedience; and to come so also to other solemn appointments, are acts
of disobedience.

'But for these things,' you say, 'you do not cast, nor keep any out of the church.'

Ans. But what acts of disobedience do we indulge them in?

'In the sin of infant baptism.'

Ans. We indulge them not; but being commanded to bear with the infirmities of each other, suffer
it; it being indeed in our eyes such; but in theirs they say a duty, till God shall otherwise
persuade them. If you be without infirmity, do you first throw a stone at them: They keep their
faith in that to themselves, and trouble not their brethren therewith: we believe that God
hath received them; they do not want to us a proof of their sonship with God; neither hath
he made water a wall of division between us, and therefore we do receive them.

Object. 'I take it to be the highest act of friendship to be faithful to these professors,
and to tell them they want this one thing in gospel order, which ought not to be left undone.'

Ans. If it be the highest piece of friendship, to preach water baptism to unbaptized believers,
the lowest act thereof must needs be very low. But contrariwise, I count it so far off from
being any act of friendship, to press baptism in our notion on those that cannot bear it; that
it is a great abuse of the peace of my brother, the law of love, the law of Christ, or the
society of the faithful. Love suffereth long, and is kind, is not easily provoked: let us therefore
follow after the things that make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another: let
every one of us please his neighbour, for his good to edification: Bear you one another's burdens,
and so fulfil the law of Christ (1 Cor 13; Rom 14:19, 15:2; Gal 6:2).

But say you, 'I doubt when this comes to be weighed in God's balance, it will be found no less
than flattery, for which you will be reproved.'

Ans. It seems you do but doubt it, wherefore the principles from which you doubt it, of that
methinks you should not be certain; but this is of little weight to me; for he that will presume
to appropriate the epistles to himself and fellows, for the sake of baptism, and that will
condemn all the churches of Christ in the land for want of baptism, and that will account his
brother as profane Esau and rejected, as idolatrous Ephraim because he wanteth his way of water
baptism; he acts out of his wonted way, of rigidness, when he doth but doubt, and not affirm
his brother to be a flatterer. I leave therefore this your doubt to be resolved at the day
of judgment, and in the mean time trample upon your harsh and unchristian surmises. As to our
love to Christians in other cases, I hope we shall also endeavour to follow the law of the
Lord; but because it respects not the matter in hand, it concerns us not now to treat thereof.

My argument treateth of church communion; in the prosecution of which I prove. 1. That love
is grounded upon the new creature (Col 3:10-15). 2. Upon our fellowship with the Father and
Son (1 John 1:2,3). 3. That with respect to this, it is the fulfilling of the royal law (James
4:11; Rom 14:21). 4. That it shews itself in acts of forbearing, rather than in publishing
some truths: communicating only what is profitable, forbearing to publish what cannot be born
(1 Cor 3:1,2; Acts 20:18-20; John 3:16,17). 5.

You come now to my eighth argument; which you do not only render falsely, but by so doing abuse
your reader. But what! May not the evil of denying church communion now, if proved naught by
a less crime in the church at Corinth, be counted carnal and babyish; but the breach of communion
must be charged upon them at Corinth also?

That my argument is good you grant, saying, 'The divisions of the church at Corinth were about
the highest fundamental principles, for which they are often called carnal'; yet you cavil
at it. But if they were to be blamed for dividing, though for the highest points; are not you
much more for condemning your brethren to perpetual banishment from church communion, though
sound in all the great points of the gospel, and right in all church ordinances also, because
for want of light they fail only in the point of baptism?

As to your quibble about Paul and Apollos, whether they, or others, were the persons, though
I am satisfied you are out, yet it weakeneth not my argument; for if they were blame worthy
for dividing, though about the highest fundamental principles, as you say, how ought you to
blush for carrying it as you do to persons, perhaps, more godly than ourselves, because they
jump not with you in a circumstance? That the divisions at Corinth were helped on by the abuse
of baptism, to me is evident, from Paul's so oft suggesting it: 'Were ye baptized in the name
of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you,--lest any should say, I had baptized in mine
own name' (1:13-15).

I do not say, that they who baptized them designed this, or that baptism in itself effected
it; nor yet, though our author feigns it, 'that they were most of them baptized by their factious
leaders.' But that they had their factious leaders, is evident; and that these leaders made
use of the names of Paul, Apollos, and Christ, is as evident; for by these names they were
beguiled by the help of ABUSED baptism.

But say you, 'Wherein lies the force of this man's argument against baptism as to its place,
worth, and continuance?'

I answer: I have no argument against its place, worth or continuance, although thus you seek
to scandalize me. But this kind of sincerity of yours, will never make me one of your disciples.
Have not I told you even in this argument, 'That I speak not as I do, to persuade or teach
men to break the least of God's commandments; but that my brethren of the baptized way may
not hold too much thereupon, may not make it an essential of the gospel, nor yet of the communion
of saints.' Yet he feigns that I urge two arguments against it. But reader, thou mayest know
I have no such reason in my book. Besides, I should be a fool indeed, were I against it, should
I make use of such weak arguments. My words then are these: 'I thank God,' said Paul, 'that
I baptized none of you but Crispus,' &c. 'Not but that then it was an ordinance, but they abused
it in making parties thereby, as they abused also Paul, and Cephas. Besides, said he, I know
not whether I baptized any other. But if baptism had been the initiating ordinance, and I now
add, essential to church communion; then no doubt he had made more conscience of it, than thus
lightly to pass it by.'

I add further, where he saith, He 'was not sent to baptize'; that he spake with an holy indignation
against those that had abused that ordinance. What is baptism? Neither is baptism any thing?
This is no new doctrine, for God by the mouth of the prophet of old, cried out against his
own appointments, when abused by his own people (Isa 1:11-15); because they used them "for
strife, and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness"' (58:4). But to forbear, to take
notice thus of these things, my argument stands firm against you: 'For if they at Corinth were
blame worthy for dividing, though their divisions were, if you say true, about the highest
fundamentals, you ought to be ashamed, thus to banish your brethren from the privileges of
church communion for ever, for the want of so low a thing as water baptism.' I call it not
low, with respect to God's appointment, though so, it is far from the highest place, but in
comparison of those fundamentals, about which you say, 'the Corinthians made their divisions.'

You come next to my ninth argument, and serve it as Hanun served David's servants (2 Sam 10:4),
you have cut off one half of its beard, and its garments to its buttocks, thinking to send
it home with shame. You state it thus: 'That by denying communion with unbaptized believers,
you take from them their privileges to which they are born.'

Ans. Have I such an argument, in all my little book? Are not my words verbatim these? That
if Jesus Christ is theirs; that Paul and Apollos, and Cephas, and the world, and all things
else was theirs (3:22).

But you answer, 'We take from them nothing, but we keep them from a disorderly practice of
gospel ordinances, we offer them their privileges, in the way of gospel order.'

Ans. Where have you one word of God, that forbiddeth a person, so qualified, as is signified
in mine argument, the best communion of saints for want of water? There is not a syllable for
this in all the book of God. So then, you in this your plausible defence, do make your scriptureless
light, which in very deed is darkness (Isa 8:20), the rule of your brother's faith; and how
well you will come off for this in the day of God, you might, were you not wedded to your wordless
opinion, soon begin to conceive.

I know your reply, 'New Testament saints are all baptized first.'

Ans. Suppose it granted: Were they baptized, that thereby they might be qualified for their
right to communion of saints, so that, without their submitting to water, they were to be denied
the other? Further, suppose I should grant this groundless notion, Were not the Jews in Old
Testament times to enter the church by circumcision? (Gen 17; Exo 12). For that, though water
is not, was the very entering ordinance. Besides, as I said before, there was a full forbidding
of all that were not circumcised from entering into fellowship, with a threatening to cut them
off from the church if they entered in without it: yet more than six hundred thousand entered
that church without it. But how now, if such an one as you had then stood up and objected,
Sir Moses, What is the reason that you transgress the order of God, to receive members without
circumcision? Is not that the very entering ordinance? Are not you commanded to keep out of
the church all that are not circumcised? Yea, and for all those that you thus received, are
you not commanded to cast them out again, to cut them off from among this people (Gen 17:13,14;
Exo 12:44-46). I say, Would not this man have had a far better argument to have resisted Moses,
than you, in your wordless notion, have to shut out men from the church, more holy than many
of ourselves? But do you think that Moses and Joshua, and all the elders of Israel, would have
thanked this fellow, or have concluded that he spake on God's behalf? Or, that they should
then, for the sake of a better than what you call order, have set to the work that you would
be doing, even to break the church in pieces for this?

But say you, 'If any will find or force another way into the sheep fold than by the footsteps
of the flock, we have no such custom nor the churches of God.'

Ans. What was done of old I have shewed you, that Christ, not baptism, is the way to the sheep
fold, is apparent: and that the person [who thus enters], in mine argument, is entitled to
all these, to wit, Christ, grace, and all the things of the kingdom of Christ in the church,
is, upon the scriptures urged, as evident.

But you add, 'That according to mine old confidence, I affirm, That drink ye all of this is
entailed to faith, not baptism: a thing,' say you, 'soon said, but yet never proved.'

Ans. 1. That it is entailed to faith, must be confessed of all hands. 2. That it is the privilege
of him that discerneth the Lord's body, and that no man is to deny him it, is also by the text
as evident, 'and so let him eat,' because he is worthy. Wherefore he, and he only, that discerneth
the Lord's body, he is the worthy receiver, the worthy receiver in God's estimation; but that
none discern the Lord's body but the baptized [in water], is both fond and ridiculous once
to surmise. And I do still add, 'Is it not that which greatly prevailed with God to bring down
those judgments which at present we [the people of God] groan under, I will dare to say it
was,[14] A cause thereof.' Yea, I will yet proceed; I fear, I strongly fear, that the rod of
God is not yet to be taken from us; for what [is a] more provoking sin among Christians than
to deny one another their rights and privileges, to which they are born of God? And then to
father these their doings upon God, when yet he hath not commanded it, neither in the New Testament
nor the Old.

But I may not lightly pass this by, for because I have gathered eighteen absurdities from this
abuse of God's ordinances, or from the sin of binding the brethren to observe order, not founded
on the command of God; and I am sure you have none to shut out men as good, as holy, and as
sound in faith as ourselves, from communion. Therefore you call my conclusion devilish, top-full
of ignorance and prejudice, and me, one of Machiavel's scholars, also proud, presumptuous,
impeaching the judgment of God.

Ans. But what is there in my proposition, that men, considerate, can be offended at? I will
dare to say, it was a cause thereof.' A was in my copy, instead whereof the printer put in
the; for this, although I speak only the truth, I will not beg of you belief; besides, the
bookseller desired me, because of the printer's haste, to leave the last sheet to be overlooked
by him, which was the cause it was not among the erratas. But I say, wherein is the proposition
offensive? Is it not a wicked thing to make bars to communion, where God hath made none? Is
it not a wickedness to make that a wall of division betwixt us which God never commanded to
be so? If it be not, justify your practice; if it be, take shame. Besides, the proposition
is universal, why then should you be the chief intended? But you have in this done like to
the lawyers of old, who, when Christ reproved the pharisees of wickedness before them, said,
'Master, thus saying thou reproachest us also' (Luke 11:45).

But you feign, and would also that the world should believe, that the eighteen absurdities
which naturally flow from the proposition I make, to be the effects of baptism, saying to me,
'None but yourself could find an innocent truth big with so many monstrous absurdities.'

I answer: This is but speaking wickedly for God, or rather to justify your wordless practice.
I say not that baptism hath any absurdity in it, though your abusing it, hath them all, and
many more, while you make it, without warrant from the word, as the flaming sword, to keep
the brotherhood out of communion, because they, after your manner, cannot consent thereto.
And let no man be offended, for that I suggest that baptism may be abused to the breeding such
monstrous absurdities, for greater truths than that have been as much abused. What say you
to, 'This is my body?' To instance no more, although I could instance many, are not they the
words of our Lord? Are not they part of the scriptures of truth? and yet behold, even with
those words, the devil, by abusing them, made an engine to let out the heart-blood of thousands.[15]
Baptism also may be abused, and is, when more is laid upon it by us than is commanded by God.
And that you do so, is manifest by what I have said already, and shall yet say to your fourteen
arguments.

My last argument, you say, is this: 'The world may wonder at your carriage to these unbaptized
persons, in keeping them out of communion?'

Ans. You will set up your own words, and then fight against them; but my words are these: 'What
greater contempt can be thrown upon the saints, than for their brethren to cut them off from,
or to debar them church communion.' And now I add, Is not this to deliver them to the devil
(1 Cor 5), or to put them to shame before all that see your acts? There is but one thing can
hinder this, and that is, by-standers see that these, your brethren, that you thus abuse, are
as holy men as ourselves. Do you more to the openly prophane, yea, to all wizards and witches
in the land?[16] For all you can do to them, I speak now as to church acts, is no other than
to debar them the communion of saints.

And now I say again, the world may well wonder, when they see you deny holy men of God that
liberty of the communion of saints which you monopolise to yourselves: and though they do not
understand the grounds of profession, or communion, yet they can both see and say, these holy
men of God, in all visible acts of holiness, are not one inch behind you. Yea, I will put it
to yourselves, If those many, yea, very many, who thus severely, but with how little ground,
is seen by men of God, you deny communion with; are not of as good, as holy, as unblameable
in life, and as sound, if not sounder in the faith than many among ourselves: Here only they
make the stop, they cannot, without light, be driven into water baptism, I mean after our notion
of it: but what if they were, it would be little sign to me, that they were sincere with God.

To conclude this; when you have proved that water baptism, which you yourself have said is
not a church ordinance, is essential to church communion, and that the church may, by the word
of God, bolt, bar, and for ever shut out those, far better than ourselves, that have not, according
to our notion, been baptized with water; then it will be time enough to talk of ground for
so doing. In the mean time I must take leave to tell you, 'There is not in all the Bible one
syllable for such a practice, wherefore your great cry about your order is wordless, and therefore
faithless, and is a mere human invention.'

I COME NOW TO YOUR FOURTEEN ARGUMENTS, AND SHALL IMPARTIALLY CONSIDER THEM.

Your first argument to prove it lawful to reject the unbaptized saint, is, 'Because the great
commission of Christ (Matt 28), from which all persons have their authority for their ministry,
if any authority at all, doth clearly direct the contrary. By that commission ministers are
first to disciple, and then to baptize them so made disciples, and afterwards to teach them
to observe all that Christ commanded them, as to other ordinances of worship. If ministers
have no other authority to teach them other parts of gospel worship, before they believe and
are baptized, it may be strongly supposed they are not to admit them to other ordinances before
they have passed this first enjoined in the commission.'

Ans. 1. That the ministers are to disciple and baptize, is granted. But that they are prohibited,
by the commission (Matt 28), to teach the disciples other parts of gospel worship that have
not light in baptism, remains for you to prove. Shall I add, this position is so absurd and
void of truth, that none that have ever read the love of Christ, the nature of faith, the end
of the gospel, or of the reason of instituted worship (which is edification) with understanding,
should so much as once imagine.

But where are they here forbidden to teach them other truths before they be baptized? This
text as fairly denieth to the unbaptized believer heaven and glory. Nay, our author, in the
midst of all his flutter about this 28th of Matthew, dare venture to gather no more therefrom,
but that it may be strongly supposed. Behold therefore, gentle reader, the ground on which
these brethren lay the stress of their separation from their fellows, is nothing else but a
supposition, without warrant, screwed out of this blessed word of God. Strongly supposed! but
may it not be as strongly supposed that the presence and blessing of the Lord Jesus, with his
ministers, is laid upon the same ground also? for thus he concludes the text, 'And lo, I am
with you alway even unto the end of the world.' But would, I say, any man from these words
conclude, that Christ Jesus hath here promised his presence only to them that, after discipling,
baptize those that are so made; and that they that do not baptize shall neither have his presence
nor his blessing? I say again, should any so conclude hence, would not all experience prove
him void of truth? The words therefore must be left, by you, as you found them, they favour
not at all your groundless supposition.

To conclude, these words have not laid baptism in the way to debar the saint from fellowship
of his brethren, no more than to hinder his inheritance in life and glory. Mark reads it thus:
'He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned'
(Mark 16:16). Letting baptism, which he mentioned in the promise, fall, when he came at the
threatening. God also doth thus with respect to his worship in the church, he commands all
and every whit of his will to be done, but beareth with our coming short in this, and that,
and another duty. But let's go on.

Your second argument is, 'That the order of Christ's commission, as well as the matter therein
contained to be observed, may easily be concluded, from God's severity towards them that sought
him not according to due order (1 Chron 15:13). Was God so exact with his people then, that
all things to a pin must be according to the pattern in the mount (Heb 8:5, 9:11), whose worship
then comparatively, to the gospel, was but after the law of a carnal commandment; and can it
be supposed he should be so indifferent now to leave men to their own liberty, to time and
place his appointments, contrary to what he had given an express rule for in his word as before?
(Eze 44:7,9,10). It was the priest's sin, formerly to bring the uncircumcised in heart and
flesh into his house.'

Ans. That there is no such order in that commission as you feign, I have proved. As for your
far-fetch'd instance (1 Chron 15), it is quite beside your purpose. The express word was, That
the priest, not a cart, should bear the ark of God. Also they were not to touch it, and yet
Uzza did (Exo 25:14; 1 Chron 15:12-16; Num 4:15; 1 Chron 13). Now, if you can make that 28th
of Matthew say, Receive none that are not baptized first; or that Christ would have them of
his, that are not yet baptized, kept ignorant of all other truths that respect church communion;
then you say something, else you do but raise a mist before the simple reader: but whoso listeth
may hang on your sleeve. As for the pins and tacks of the tabernacle, they were expressly commanded;
and when you have proved by the word of God, That you ought to shut saints out of your communion
for want of baptism, then you may begin more justly to make your parallel. How fitly you have
urged (Eze 44) to insinuate that unbaptized believers are like the uncircumcised in heart and
flesh, I leave it to all gospel-novices to consider.

Your third argument is, 'The practice of the first gospel-ministers, with them that first trusted
in Christ, discovers the truth of what I assert. Certainly they that lived at the spring-head,
or fountain of truth, and had the law from Christ's own mouth, knew the meaning of his commission
better than we: but their constant practice in conformity to that commission, all along the
Acts of the Apostles, discovers that they never arrived to such a latitude as men plead for
now-a-days. They that gladly received the word were baptized, and they, yea they only, were
received into the church.'

Ans. How well you have proved what you have asserted, is manifest by my answer to the two former
arguments. I add, That the ministers and servants of Jesus Christ in the first churches, for
that you are to prove, were commanded to forbear to preach other truths to the unbaptized believers;
or that they were to keep them out of the church; or that the apostles, and first fathers,
have given you to understand by their example, that you ought to keep as good out of churches
as yourselves, hath not yet been shewed by the authority of the word. The second of the Acts
proveth not, That the three thousand were necessitated to be baptized in order to their fellowship
with the church, neither doth it say THEY, yea they only, were received into the church. But
suppose all this, as much was done at the first institution of circumcision, &c., yet afterwards
thousands were received without it.

Your fourth argument is, 'None of the scripture saints ever attempted this church privilege
without baptism, if they did, let it be shewn. The eunuch first desired baptism before anything
else; Paul was first baptized before he did essay to join with the church. Our Lord Christ,
the great example of the New Testament, entered not upon his public ministry, much less any
other gospel ordinance of worship, till he was baptized.'

Ans. That none of the scripture saints, if there be any unscripture ones, so much as attempted
this church-privilege first, remains for you to prove. But suppose they were all baptized,
because they had light therein, what then? Doth this prove that baptism is essential to church
communion? Or, that Christ commanded in the 28th of Matthew, or gave his ministers by that,
authority, not to make known to believers other parts of gospel-worship, if they shall want
light in baptism? The eunuch, Paul, and our blessed Lord Jesus, did none of them, by their
baptism, set themselves to us examples how to enter into church communion; what church was
the eunuch baptized into, or made a member of; but where is it said, that the unbaptized believer,
how excellent soever in faith and holiness, must, for want of water baptism, be shut out from
the communion of saints, or be debarred the privilege of his Father's house? This you are to prove.

Your fifth argument is, 'If Christ himself was made manifest to be the SENT of God by baptism,
as appears (Mark 1:9,10), then why may not baptism, as the first fruits of faith, and the first
step of gospel-obedience, as to instituted worship, be a manifesting discovering ordinance
upon others who thus follow Christ's steps.'

Ans. That Jesus Christ was manifested as the SENT of God by baptism, or that baptism is the
first fruit of faith and the first step to gospel-obedience, as to instituted worship, is both
without proof and truth; the text saith not, he was manifest to be the 'sent' of God by baptism;
nay it saith not, that by that he was manifest to others to be anything thereby: you have therefore
but wronged the text to prove your wordless practice by. Yea, John himself, though he knew
him before he was baptized, to be a man of God, for, saith he, 'I have need to be baptized
of thee, and comest thou to me' (Matt 3:14), and knew him after to be the 'sent' of God; yet
not in, or by, but after he was baptized, to wit, by the descending of the Holy Ghost, after
he was come out of the water, as he was in prayer, for the heavens were opened to John (John
1:30-34), and he saw, and bare record, because he saw the Spirit descend from heaven, and abide
upon Jesus, after his baptism, as he was in prayer (Matt 3:13-17; Luke 3:21,22). Thus we find
him made known before and after, but not at all by baptism, to be the 'sent' of God.

And that baptism is the fruit of faith, or that faith ought to be tied to take its first step
in water baptism, in the instituted worship of God; this you must prove, it is not found expressed
within the whole Bible. Faith acts according to its strength and as it sees, it is not tied
or bound to any outward circumstance; one believeth he may, and another believeth he may not,
either do this or that.

Your sixth argument is, 'If baptism be in any sense any part of the foundation of a church,
as to order (Heb 6:1,2), it must have place here or no where: why are those things called first
principles, if not first to be believed and practised? Why are they rendered by the learned
the A, B, C, of a Christian, and the beginning of Christianity, milk for babes, if it be no
matter whether baptism be practised or no? If it be said water baptism is not there intended,
let them shew me how many baptisms there are besides water baptism? Can you build and leave
out a stone in the foundation? I intend not baptism a foundation any other ways but in respect
of order, and it is either intended for that or nothing.'

Ans. Baptism is in no sense the foundation of a church. I find no foundation of a church but
Jesus Christ himself (Matt 16:18; 1 Cor 3:11). Yea, the foundation mentioned (Heb 6:1,2) is
nothing else but this very Christ. For he is the foundation, not only of the church, but of
all that good that at any time is found in her. He is the foundation OF our repentance, and
OF our faith towards God (vv 1,2). Further, baptisms are not here mentioned with respect to
the act in water, but of the doctrine; that is, the signification thereof. 'The doctrine of
baptisms.' And observe, neither faith, nor repentance, nor baptisms, are called here foundations:
Another thing, for a foundation, is here by the Holy Ghost intended, even a foundation for
them all: a foundation of faith, of repentance, of the doctrine of baptisms, of the resurrection
of the dead, and of eternal judgment. And this foundation is Jesus Christ himself, and these
are the first principles, the milk, the A, B, C, and the beginning of Christian religion in
the world. I dare not say, No matter whether water baptism be practised or no. But it is not
a stone in the foundation of a church, no not respecting order; it is not, to another, a sign
of my sonship with God; it is not the door into fellowship with the saints, it is no church
ordinance, as you, yourself, have testified. So then as to church work, it hath no place at
all therein.

Your seventh argument is, 'If Paul knew the Galatians only upon the account of charity, No
other ways to be the sons of God by faith; but by this part of their obedience, as he seems
to import, then the same way we judge of the truth of men's profession of faith, when it shows
itself by this selfsame obedience. Baptism being an obligation to all following duties' (Gal
3:26,27).

Ans. This your argument, being builded upon no more than a SEEMING import, and having been
above ten times overthrown already; I might leave still with you, till your seeming import
is come to a real one, and both to a greater persuasion upon your own conscience. But verily
Sir, you grossly abuse your reader; must imports, yea, must seeming imports now stand for arguments,
thereby to maintain your confident separation from your brethren? Yea, must such things as
these, be the basis on which you build those heavy censures and condemnations you raise against
your brethren, that cannot comply with you, because you want the word? A seeming import. But
are these words of faith? or do the scriptures only help you to seeming imports, and me-hap-soes[17]
for your practice? No, nor yet to them neither, for I dare boldly affirm it, and demand, if
you can, to prove, that there is so much as a seeming import in all the word of God, that countenanceth
your shutting men, better than ourselves, from the things and privileges of our Father's house.
That to the Galatians, saith not, that Paul knew them to be the sons of God by faith, no other
way, but by THIS part of their obedience; but puts them upon concluding themselves the sons
of God, if they were baptized into the Lord Jesus, which could not, ordinarily, be known but
unto themselves alone; because, being thus baptized, respecteth a special act of faith, which
only God and him that hath, and acteth it, can be privy to. It is one thing for him that administereth,
to baptize in the name of Jesus, and another thing for him that is the subject, by that to
be baptize INTO Jesus Christ: Baptizing into Christ, is rather the act of the faith of him
that is baptized, than his going into water and coming out again. But that Paul knew this to
be the state of the Galatians no other way, but by their external act of being baptized with
water, is both wild and unsound, and a miserable IMPORT indeed.

Your eighth argument is, 'If being baptized into Christ, be a putting on of Christ, as Paul
expressed, then they have not put on Christ, in that sense he means, that are not baptized;
if this putting on of Christ, doth not respect the visibility of Christianity; assign something
else as its signification; great men's servants are known by their master's liveries, so are
gospel believers by this livery of water baptism, that all that first trusted in Christ submitted
unto; which is in itself as much an obligation to all gospel obedience, as circumcision was
to keep the whole law.'

Ans. For a reply to the first part of this argument, go back to the answer to the seventh.
Now that none have put on Christ in Paul's sense; yea, in a saving, in the best sense; but
them that have, as you would have them, gone into water, will be hard for you to prove, yea,
is ungodly for you to assert. Your comparing water baptism to a gentleman's livery, by which
his name is known to be his, is fantastical. Go you but ten doors from where men have knowledge
of you, and see how many of the world, or Christians, will know you by this goodly livery,
to be one that hath put on Christ. What! known by water baptism to be one that hath put on
Christ, as a gentleman's man is known to be his master's servant, by the gay garment his master
gave him. That baptism is in itself obliging, to speak properly, it is false, for set it by
itself, and it stands without the stamp of heaven upon it, and without its signification also:
and how, as such, it should be obliging, I see not. Where you insinuate, it comes in the room
of, and obligeth as circumcision: you say, you know not what (Acts 15:1,2). Circumcision was
the initiating ordinance, but this you have denied to baptism. Further, circumcision then bound
men to the whole obedience of the law, when urged by the false apostles, and received by an
erroneous conscience (Gal 5:1-4). Would you thus urge water baptism! would you have men to
receive it with such consciences? Circumcision in the flesh, was a type of circumcision in
the heart, and not of water baptism (Rom 2:28,29; Phil 3:3).

Your ninth argument is, 'If it were commendable in the Thessalonians, that they followed the
footsteps of the church of Judea (1 Thess 2:14), who it appears followed this order of adding
baptized believers unto the church; then they that have found out another way of making church
members, are not by that rule praiseworthy, but rather to be blamed; it was not what was since
in corrupted times, but that which was from the beginning: the first churches were the purest
pattern.'

Ans. That the text saith there was a church of Judea, I find not in 1 Thessalonians 2:14. And
that the Thessalonians are commended for refusing to have communion with the unbaptized believers,
for that is our question, prove it by the word, and then you do something. Again, that the
commendations (1 Thess 2:14) do chiefly, or at all, respect their being baptized: or, because
they followed the churches of God, which in Judea were in Christ Jesus, in the example of water
baptism is quite beside the word. The verse runs thus: 'For ye, brethren, became followers
of the churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things
of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews.' This text then commends them, not for
that they were baptized with water, but, for that they stood their ground, although baptized
with suffering, like them in Judea, for the name of the Lord Jesus. For suffering like things
of their own countrymen, as they did of the Jews. Will you not yet leave off to abuse the word
of God, and forbear turning it out of its place, to maintain your unchristian practice of rejecting
the people of God, and excluding them their blessed privileges. The unbaptized believer, instead
of taking shame for entering into fellowship without it, will be ready, I doubt, to put you
to shame for bringing scriptures so much beside the purpose, and for stretching them so miserably
to uphold you in your fancies.

Your tenth argument is, 'If so be, that any of the members at Corinth, Galatia, Colosse, Rome,
or them that Peter wrote to, were not baptized, then Paul's arguments for the resurrection
to them, or to press them to holiness from the ground (Rom 6; Col 2; 1 Cor 15) was out of doors,
and altogether needless, yea, it bespeaks his ignorance, and throweth contempt upon the Spirit's
wisdom (Heb 6; 1 Peter 3:21) by which he wrote; if that must be asserted as a ground to provoke
them to such an end, which had no being: and if all the members of all those churches were
baptized, why should any plead for an exemption from baptism, for any church member now?'

Ans. Suppose all, if all these churches were baptized, what then? that answereth not our question.
We ask where you find it written, that those that are baptized, should keep men as holy, and
as much beloved of the Lord Jesus as themselves, out of church communion, for want of light
in water baptism. Why we plead for their admission, though ye see not yet, that this is their
duty, is because we are not forbidden, but commanded to receive them, because God and Christ
hath done it (Rom 14, 15).

Your eleventh argument is, 'If unbaptized persons must be received into churches, only because
they are believers, though they deny baptism; then why may not others plead for the like privilege,
that are negligent in any other gospel ordinance of worship, from the same ground of want of
light, let it be what it will. So then as the consequence of this principle, churches may be
made up of visible sinners, instead of visible saints.'

Ans. 1. I plead not for believers simply because they are believers, but for such believers
of whom we are persuaded by the word, that God hath received them. 2. There are some of the
ordinances, that be they neglected, the being of a church, as to her visible gospel constitution,
is taken quite away; but baptism is none of them, it being no church ordinance as such, nor
any part of faith, nor of that holiness of heart, or life, that sheweth me to the church to
be indeed a visible saint. The saint is a saint before, and may walk with God, and be faithful
with the saints, and to his own light also though he never be baptized. Therefore to plead
for his admission, makes no way at all for the admission of the open prophane, or to receive,
as you profess you do, persons unprepared to the Lord's table, and other solemn appointments.

Your twelfth argument is, 'Why should professors have more light in breaking of bread, than
baptism? That this must be so urged for their excuse: Hath God been more sparing in making
out his mind in the one, rather than the other? Is there more precepts or precedents for the
supper, than baptism? Hath God been so bountiful in making out himself about the supper, that
few or none that own ordinances scruple it? And must baptism be such a rock of offence to professors,
that very few will enquire after it, or submit to it? Hath not man's wisdom interposed to darken
this part of God's counsel? By which professors seem willingly led, though against so many
plain commands and examples, written as with a sun beam, that he that runs may read? And must
an advocate be entertained to plead for so gross a piece of ignorance, that the meanest babes
of the first gospel times were never guilty of?'

Ans. Many words to little purpose. 1. Must God be called to an account by you, why he giveth
more light about the supper than baptism? May he not shew to, or conceal from this, or another
of his servants, which of his truths he pleaseth. Some of the members of the church at Jerusalem
had a greater truth than this kept from them, for ought I know, as long as they lived (Acts
11:19), yet God was not called in question about it. 2. Breaking of bread, not baptism, being
a church ordinance, and that such also as must be often reiterated; yea, it being an ordinance
so full of blessedness, as lively to present union and communion with Christ to all the members
that worthily eat thereof: I say, the Lord's supper being such, that while the members sit
at that feast, they shew to each other the death and blood of the Lord, as they ought to do,
till he comes (1 Cor 10:15-17, 11:25,26). The church as a church, is much more concerned in
that, than in water baptism, both as to her faith and comfort; both as to her union and communion.
3. Your supposition, that very few professors will seriously inquire after water baptism, is
too rude. What, must all the children of God, that are not baptized for want of light, be still
stigmatised with want of serious inquiry after God's mind in it. 4. That I am an advocate,
entertained to plead for so gross a piece of ignorance, as want of light in baptism, is but
like the rest of your jumbling. I plead for communion with men, godly and faithful, I plead
that they may be received, that God hath shewed us he hath received, and commanded we should
receive them.

Your thirteenth argument is, 'If obedience must discover the truth of a man's faith to others,
why must baptism be shut out, as if it was no part of gospel obedience? Is there no precept
for this practice, that it must be thus despised, as a matter of little use? Or shall one of
Christ's precious commands be blotted out of a Christian's obedience, to make way for a church
fellowship of man's devising.'

Ans. 1. This is but round, round, the same thing over and over. That my obedience to water,
is not a discovery of my faith to others, is evident, from the body of the Bible, we find nothing
that affirms it. And I will now add, That if a man cannot shew himself a Christian without
water baptism; he shall never shew either saint or sinner, that he is a Christian by it. 2.
Who [soever] they are that despise it, I know not but that church membership may be without
it, (seeing even you yourself have concluded it is no church ordinance, nor the entering ordinance)
standeth both with scripture and reason, as mine arguments make manifest. So that all your
arguments prove no more but this, 'That you are so wedded to your wordless notions, that charity
can have no place with you.' Have you all this while so much as given me one small piece of
a text to prove it unlawful for the church, to receive those whom she, by the word, perceiveth
the Lord God and her Christ hath received? No: and therefore you have said so much as amounts
to nothing.

Your last argument is, 'If the baptism of John was so far honoured and dignified, that they
that did submit to it, are said to justify God; and those that did it not, are said to reject
his counsel against themselves: so that their receiving, or rejecting the whole doctrine of
God, hath its denomination from this single practice. And is there not as much to be said of
the baptism of Christ, unless you will say it is inferior to John's in worth and use.'

Ans. 1. That our denomination of believers, and of our receiving the doctrine of the Lord Jesus,
is not to be reckoned from our baptism, is evident; because according to our notion of it,
they only that have before received the doctrine of the gospel, and so shew it us by their
confession of faith, they only ought to be baptized. This might serve for an answer for all:
but, 2. The Baptism of John was 'the baptism of repentance, for the remission of sins' (Mark
1:4; Matt 3;6; Luke 3:3), of which water was but an outward signification. Now what is the
baptism of repentance, but an unfeigned acknowledgment that they were sinners, and so stood
in need of a Saviour, Jesus Christ. This baptism, or baptism under this notion, the Pharisees
would not receive (Luke 7:29,30). For they 'trusted in themselves that they were righteous,'
that they were 'not as other men,' that they had need of no repentance (Luke 18:9, 10:29, 15:7).
Not but that they would have been baptized with water, might that have been without an acknowledgment
that they were sinners (Matt 3:7); wherefore seeing the counsel of God respected rather the
remission of sins by Jesus Christ, than the outward act of water baptism, ye ought not, as
you do, by this your reasoning, to make it rather, at least in the revelation of it, to terminate
in the outward act of being baptized, but in unfeigned and sound repentance, and the receiving
of Jesus Christ by faith (Eph 1:7,8,11).

Further, A desire to submit to John's water baptism, or of being baptized by him in water,
did not demonstrate by that single act, the receiving of the whole doctrine of God as you suggest.
'Why did John reject the Pharisees that would have been baptized (Matt 3:7), and Paul examine
them that were?' (Acts 19:2,3). If your doctrine be true, why did they not rather say, Oh!
seeing you desire to be baptized, seeing you have been baptized, you need not to be questioned
any further; your submitting to John's water, to us is a sufficient testimony, even that single
act, that you have received the whole doctrine of God. But I say, why did John call them vipers?
And Paul asked them, Whether they had yet 'received the Holy Ghost?' Yea, it is evident, that
a man may be desirous of water, that a man may be baptized, and neither own the doctrine of
repentance, nor know on whom he should believe; evident, I say, and that by the same texts
(Matt 3:7; Acts 19:2-4).

You have grounded therefore this your last argument, as also the rest, upon an utter mistake
of things.

I COME NOW TO YOUR Questions; WHICH ALTHOUGH THEY BE MIXED WITH GALL, I WILL WITH PATIENCE
SEE IF I CAN TURN THEM INTO FOOD.

[Quest. 1.] Your first question is, 'I ask your own heart, whether popularity and applause
of variety of professors, be not in the bottom of what you have said; that hath been your snare
to pervert the right ways of the Lord, and to lead others into a path wherein we can find none
of the footsteps of the flock in the first ages?'

Ans. Setting aside a retaliation, like your question, I say, and God knows I speak the truth,
I have been tempted to do what I have done, by a provocation of sixteen years long; tempted,
I say, by the brethren of your way: who, whenever they saw their opportunity, have made it
their business to seek to rend us in pieces; mine ownself they have endeavoured to persuade
to forsake the church; some they have rent quite off from us, others they have attempted and
attempted to divide and break off from us, but by the mercy of God, have been hitherto prevented.
A more large account you may have in my next, if you think good to demand it; but I thank God
that I have written what I have written.

Quest. 2. 'Have you dealt brotherly, or like a Christian, to throw so much dirt upon your brethren,
in print, in the face of the world, when you had an opportunity to converse with them of reputation
amongst us, before printing, being allowed the liberty by them, at the same time for you to
speak among them?'

Ans. I have thrown no dirt upon them, nor laid any thing to their charge, if their practice
be warrantable by the word; but you have not been offended at the dirt yourselves have thrown
at all the godly in the land that are not of our persuasion, in counting them unfit to be communicated
with, or to be accompanied with in the house of God. This dirt you never complained of, nor
would, I doubt, to this day, might you be still let alone to throw it. As to my book, it was
printed before I spake with any of you, or knew whether I might be accepted of you. As to them
of reputation among you, I know others not one tittle inferior to them, and have my liberty
to consult with who I like best.

Quest. 3. 'Doth your carriage answer the law of love or civility, when the brethren used means
to send for you for a conference, and their letter was received by you, that you should go
out again from the city after knowledge of their desires, and not vouchsafe a meeting with
them, when the glory of God, and the vindication of so many churches is concerned.'

Ans. The reason why I came not amongst you, was partly because I consulted mine own weakness,
and counted not myself, being a dull headed man, able to engage so many of the chief of you,
as I was then informed intended to meet me. I also feared, in personal disputes, heats and
bitter contentions might arise, a thing my spirit hath not pleasure in: I feared also, that
both myself and words would be misrepresented; and that not without cause, for if they that
answer a book will alter, and screw arguments out of their place, and make my sentences stand
in their own words, not mine, when I say my words are in a book to be seen, what would you
have done, had I in the least, either in matter or manner, though but seemingly miscarried
among you. As for the many churches which you say are concerned, as also the glory of God,
I doubt not to say they are only your wordless opinions that are concerned; the glory of God
is vindicated: We receive him that God hath received, and that 'to the glory of God' (Rom 15:7).

Quest. 4. 'Is it not the spirit of Diotrephes of old, in you, who loved to have the pre-eminence,
that you are so bold to keep out all the brethren, that are not of your mind in this matter,
from having any entertainment in the churches or meetings to which you belong, though you yourself
have not been denied the like liberty, among them that are contrary minded to you? Is this
the way of your retaliation? Or are you afraid lest the truth should invade your quarters?'

Ans. I can say, I would not have the spirit you talk of; what I have of it, God take it from
me. But what was the spirit of Diotrephes? Why, not to receive the brethren into the church,
and to forbid them that would (3 John 9,10). This do not I; I am for communion with saints,
because they are saints: I shut none of the brethren out of the churches, nor forbid them that
would receive them. I say again, shew me the man that is a visible believer, and that walketh
with God; and though he differ with me about baptism, the doors of the church stand open for
him, and all our heaven-born privileges he shall be admitted to them. But how came Diotrephes
so lately into our parts? Where was he in those days that our brethren of the baptized way,
would neither receive into the church, nor pray with men as good as themselves, because they
were not baptized; but would either, like Quakers, stand with their hats on their heads, or
else withdraw till we had done.

As to our not suffering those you plead for to preach in our assemblies, the reason is, because
we cannot yet prevail with them, to repent of their church-rending principles. As to the retaliation,
mind the hand of God, and remember Adonibezek (Judg 1:7). Let the truth come into our quarters
and welcome, but sowers of discord, because the Lord hates it (Prov 6:19), we also ourselves
will AVOID them (Rom 16:17,18).

Quest. 5. 'Is there no contempt cast upon the brethren, who desired your satisfaction, that
at the same time, when you have opportunity to speak to them, instead of that, you committed
the letters to others, by way of reflection upon them?'

Ans. It is no contempt at all to consult men more wise and judicious than him that wrote, or
myself either. But why not consult with others. Is wisdom to die with you? Or do you count
all that yourselves have no hand in, done to your disparagement?

Quest. 6. 'Did not your presumption prompt you to provoke them to printing, in your letter
to them, when they desired to be found in no such practice, lest the enemies of truth should
take advantage by it?'

Ans. What provoked you to print, will be best known at the day of judgment, whether your fear
of losing your wordless opinion, or my plain answer to your letter: The words in my letter
are, 'As for my book never defer its answer till you speak with me, for I strive not for mastery
but truth.' Though you did not desire to write, yet with us there was continual labour to rend
us to pieces, and to prevent that, was my first book written. And let who will take advantage,
so the truth of God, and the edification of my brother be promoted.

Quest. 7. 'Whether your principle and practice is not equally against others as well as us,
viz. Episcopal, Presbyterians, and Independents, who are also of our side, for our practice,
though they differ with us about the subject of baptism. Do you delight to have your hand against
every man?'

Ans. I own water baptism to be God's ordinance, but I make no idol of it. Where you call now
the Episcopal to side with you, and also the Presbyterian, &c. you will not find them easily
persuaded to conclude with you against me. They are against your manner of dipping, as well
as the subject of water baptism; neither do you, for all you flatter them, agree together in
all but the subject. Do you allow their sprinkling? Do you allow their signing with the cross?
Why then have you so stoutly, an hundred times over, condemned these things as antichristian.
I am not against every man, though by your abusive language you would set every one against
me; but am for union, concord, and communion with saints, as saints, and for that cause I wrote
my book.

To conclude,--1. In all I have said, I put a difference between my brethren of the baptized
way; I know some are more moderate than some. 2. When I plead for the unbaptized, I chiefly
intend those that are not so baptized as my brethren judge right, according to the first pattern.
3. If any shall count my papers worth the scribbling against, let him deal with my arguments,
and things immediately depending upon them, and not conclude that he hath confuted a book,
when he hath only quarrelled at words. 4. I have done when I have told you, that I strive not
for mastery, nor to shew myself singular; but, if it might be, for union and communion among
the godly. And count me not as an enemy, because I tell you the truth. 5. And now, dissenting
brethren, I commend you to God, who can pardon your sin, and give you more grace, and an inheritance
among them that are sanctified by faith in Jesus Christ. Amen.

HERE FOLLOWETH MR. HENRY JESSEY'S JUDGMENT UPON THE SAME ARGUMENT.

'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,' &c.--Romans 14:1

Whereas some suppose the receiving there mentioned, was but receiving into brotherly affection,
such as were in church fellowship; but not a receiving of such as were weak into the church.
For answer unto which consider,

That in the texts are two things to be inquired into. First, What weakness of faith this is,
that must not hinder receiving. Secondly, by whom, and to what, he that is weak in the faith
is to be received?

First, To the first, What weakness of faith this is that must not hinder receiving, whether
was it weakness in the graces of faith, or in the doctrine of faith? It is conceived that the
first is included, but the second principally intended.

1. That some of the Lord's people are weak in the graces of faith, will be confessed by all
(Mark 9:24; Luke 24:25) and that the Lord would have his lambs fed as well as his sheep, and
his children as well as grown men, and that he hath given the right to gospel privileges, not
to degrees of grace, but to the truth; 'him that is weak in the faith receive ye': or unto
you, as some GOOD translations read it (Rom 14:1).[18]

2. It is supposed, that this command of receiving him that is weak in the faith, doth principally
intend, that is weak in the doctrine of faith, and that not so much in the doctrine of justification,
as in gospel institutions, as doth appear by the second and sixth verses: which shew, that
it was in matters of practice, wherein some were weak, and at which others were offended; notwithstanding
the glorious Lord who bears all his Israel upon his heart receives them (v 3) and commandeth,
'him that is weak in the faith receive ye,' or unto you.

Second, Therefore, here we are to inquire of the receiving in the text, By whom, and to what
he that is weak in the faith, should be received. In which inquiry there are two parts. 1.
By whom. 2. To what.

1. To the first. The text makes answer, 'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,' or unto
you; which must be the church at Rome, to whom the epistle was writ; as also to all 'beloved
of God, called to be saints' (Rom 1:7). And as to them, so unto all churches and saints, Beloved
and called throughout the world.

Note, That epistles are as well to direct how churches are to carry things towards saints without,
as to saints within; and also toward all men so as to give no offence to Jew or Gentile, nor
to the church of God (1 Cor 10:32).

2. The second part of the inquiry is, to what he that is weak in the faith is to be received?
whether only unto mutual affection, as some affirm, as if he were in church fellowship before,
that were weak in the faith? Or whether the text doth as well, if not rather intend, the receiving
such as were, and are weak in the faith, Not only unto mutual affection if in the church, but
unto church fellowship also, if they were out. For clearing of which consider, to whom the
epistle was written (Rom 1:7). Not only to the church there, but unto all that were beloved
of God, and called to be saints in all ages. And as at Rome it is like there then were, and
in other places now are, saints weak in the faith, both in and out of church fellowship; and
it is probable there then were, and elsewhere now are, those that will cast such out of their
mutual affection. And if they will cast such out of their mutual affection that are within,
no doubt they will keep out of their church fellowship those that are without.

Arg. 1. Whereas the Lord's care extends to all his, and if it were a good argument in the third
verse, for them to receive those within, because God hath received them, it would be as good
an argument to receive in those without, for God hath received them also: unless it could be
proved, that all that were and are weak in the faith, were and are in church fellowship, which
is not likely: for if they would cast such out of their affection that are within, they would
upon the same account keep them out of church fellowship that were without: therefore as it
is a duty to receive those within unto mutual affection, so it is no less a duty, by the text,
to receive such weak ones as are without, into church fellowship.

Arg. 2. Is urged from the words themselves, which are, 'Receive him that is weak in the faith';
wherein the Lord puts NO limitation in this text or in any other; and who is he then that can
restrain it, unless he will limit the Holy One of Israel? And how would such an interpretation
foolishly charge the Lord, as if he took care ONLY of those within, but not like care of those
without; whereas he commandeth them to receive them, and useth this motive, he had received
them, and he receiveth those that are weak in the faith, if without, as well as those within.

From the example, to wit, That God had received them; whereas had he been of the church, they
would have been persuaded of that before the motive was urged: for no true church of Christ's
would take in, or keep in any, whom they judged the Lord had not received; but those weak ones
were such as they questioned whether the Lord had received them, else the text had not been
an answer sufficient for their receiving them: There might have been objected, they hold up
Jewish observations of meats and days, which by the death of Christ were abolished, and so
did deny some of the effects of his death; yet the Lord who was principally wronged could pass
this by, and commandeth others to receive them also. And if it be a good argument to receive
such as are weak in any thing, whom the Lord hath received, then there can be no good argument
to reject for any thing for which the Lord will not reject them: for else the command in the
first verse, and his example in the third verse were insufficient, without some other arguments
unto the church, besides his command and example. And from thence supposing they were all in
church fellowship before, whereas the text saith not so: for if you consider the eighth and
ninth verses, you may see he speaks unto Jews and Gentiles in general, that if the Jews had
the receiving, they should receive Gentiles; and if the Gentiles had the receiving, they should
receive Jews, for had they not been on both sides commanded: the Jews might have said to the
Gentiles, you are commanded to receive us, but we are not commanded to receive you; and if
the weak had the receiving, they should receive the strong; and if the strong had the receiving,
they should not keep out the weak; and the text is reinforced with the example of the Son's
receiving us unto the glory of God, that as he receiveth Jews and poor Gentiles, weak and strong,
in church fellowship, or out of church fellowship; so should they to the glory of God. And
as the Lord Jesus received some, though they held some things more than were commanded, and
some things less than were commanded, and as those that were weak and in church fellowship,
so those that were weak and out of church fellowship; and that not only into mutual affection,
but unto fellowship with himself; and so should they, not only receive such as were weak within
into mutual affection, but such as were without, both to mutual affection and to church fellowship:
or else such weak ones as were without, had been excluded by the text. Oh! how is the heart
of God the Father and the Son set upon this, to have his children in his house, and in one
another's hearts as they are in his, and are borne upon the shoulders and breasts of his Son
their high priest? and as if all this will not do it, but the devil will divide them still,
whose work it properly is; But 'the God of peace' will come in shortly, 'and bruise Satan under
their feet,' as in Romans 16:20. And they will agree to be in one house, when they are more
of one heart; in the mean time prays, as in chapter 15:5, 'Now the God of patience and consolation
grant you to be like-minded one toward another according to Christ Jesus.'

I shall endeavour the answering of some objections, and leave it unto consideration.

Object. Some say this bearing or receiving, were but in things indifferent.

Ans. That eating, or forbearing upon a civil account, are things indifferent, is true: but
not when done upon the account of worship, as keeping of days, and establishing Jewish observations
about meats, which by the death of Christ are taken away; and it is not fairly to be imagined
the same church at Rome looked so upon them as indifferent; nor that the Lord doth; that it
were all alike to him to hold up Jewish observations, or to keep days or no days, right days
or wrong days, as indifferent things, which is a great mistake, and no less than to make God's
grace little in receiving such. For if it were but in things wherein they had not sinned, it
were no great matter for the Lord to receive, and it would have been as good an argument or
motive to the church, to say the things were indifferent, as to say the Lord had received them.
Whereas the text is to set out the riches of grace to the vessels of mercy, as Romans 9:15.
That as at first he did freely choose and accept them; so when they fail and miscarry in many
things, yea about his worship also, although he be most injured thereby, yet he is first in
passing it by, and persuading others to do the like. That as the good Samaritan did in the
Old Testament,[19] so our good Samaritan doth in the New, when priest and Levite passed by,
pastor and people pass by, yet he will not, but pours in oil, and carries them to his inn,
and calls for receiving, and setting it upon his account.

Object. That this bearing with, and receiving such as are weak in the faith, must be limited
to meats and days, and such like things that had been old Jewish observations, but not unto
the being ignorant in, or doubting of any New Testament institution.

Ans. Where the Lord puts no limitation, men should be wary how they do it, for they must have
a command or example, before they can limit this command; for although the Lord took this occasion
from their difference about meats and days to give this command, yet the command is not limited
there, no more than Matthew 12:1-8. That when they made use of his good law rigorously in the
letter, he presently published an act of grace in the 7th verse, and tells them, Had they known
what this meaneth, 'I will have mercy and not sacrifice,' they would not have condemned the
guiltless; as also Matthew 9:13, 'Go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy and
not sacrifice,' which is not to be limited unto what was the present occasion of publishing
the command, but observed as a general rule upon all occasions, wherein mercy and sacrifice
comes in competition, to shew the Lord will rather have a duty omitted that is due to him,
than mercy to his creatures omitted by them. So in the text, when some would not receive such
as were weak in the faith, as to matters of practice, the Lord was pleased to publish this
act of grace: 'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.'
Now unless it be proved, that no saint can be weak in the faith in any thing but meats and
days, or in some Old Testament observations, and that he ought not to be judged a saint that
is weak in the faith as it relates to gospel institutions, in matters of practice; you cannot
limit the text, and you must also prove his weakness SUCH, as that the Lord will not receive
him; else the command in the first verse, and the reason or motive in the third verse, will
both be in force upon you; to wit, 'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,' or unto you,--'for
God hath received him.'

Object. But some may object from 1 Corinthians 12:13, 'For by one spirit are we all baptized
into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles.' Some there are that affirm this to be meant
of water baptism, and that particular churches are formed thereby, and all persons are to be
admitted and jointed unto such churches by water baptism.

Ans. That the baptism intended in the text is the Spirit's baptism, and not water baptism;
and that the body the text intends, is not principally the church of Corinth, but all believers,
both Jews and Gentiles, being baptized into one mystical body, as Ephesians 4:4, 'There is
one body and one Spirit,' wherein there is set out the uniter and the united; therefore in
the third verse they are exhorted to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. The
united are all the faithful in one body; into whom? in the fifth verse, in one Lord Jesus Christ:
by what? one faith, one baptism, which CANNOT be meant of water baptism; for water baptism
doth not unite all this body, for some of them never had water baptism, and are yet of this
body, and by the Spirit gathered into one Lord Jesus Christ (Eph 1:10), 'both which are in
heaven and in earth,' Jew and Gentile (Eph 2:16), 'that he might reconcile both unto God in
one body by the cross.' The instrument you have in verse 18, 'by one spirit' (Eph 3:6). 'That
the Gentiles should be fellow-heirs, and of the same body' (v 15). 'Of whom the whole family
in heaven and earth is named.' And the reasons of their keeping 'the unity of the Spirit,'
in Ephesians 4:3 is laid down in verses 4, 5 being 'one body,' 'one Spirit,' having 'one hope,'
'one Lord,' 'one faith,' 'one baptism,' whether they were Jews or Gentiles, such as were in
heaven or in earth, which CANNOT be meant of water baptism, for in that sense they had not
all one baptism, nor admitted and united thereby.

Object. But Ephesians 4:5 saith, there is but 'one baptism'; and by what hath been said, if
granted, water baptism will be excluded, or else there is more baptisms than one.

Ans. It followeth not that because the Spirit will have no corrival, that therefore other things
may not be in their places. That because the Spirit of God taketh the pre-eminence, therefore
other things may not be subservient (1 John 2:27). And such as would set water baptism in the
Spirit's place, exalt a duty against the deity and dignity of the Spirit, and to give the glory
due unto him, as God blessed for ever, unto a duty.

By which mistake of setting up water baptism in the Spirit's place, and assigning it a work,
which was never appointed unto it; of forming the body of Christ, either in general, as in
1 Corinthians 12:13; Ephesians 4:5 or as to particular churches of Christ, we may see the fruit;
that instead of being the means of uniting as the Spirit doth; that it hath not only rent his
seamless coat, but divided his body which he hath purchased with his own blood, and opposed
that great design of Father, Son, and Spirit, in uniting poor saints, thereby pulling in pieces
what the Spirit hath put together. 'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,--for God hath
received him'; being such as the Spirit had baptized and admitted of the body of Christ, he
would have his churches receive them also: whose baptism is the ONLY baptism, and so is called
the ONE baptism. Therefore consider, whether such a practice, hath a command or an example,
that persons must be joined into church fellowship by water baptism; for John baptized many,
yet he did not baptize some into one church, and some into another, nor all into one church,
as the church of Rome doth. And into what church did Philip baptize the eunuch, or the apostle
the jailor and his house? And all the rest they baptized, were they not left free to join themselves
for their convenience and edification? All which I leave to consideration. I might have named
some inconveniences, if not absurdities that would follow the assertion: as to father the mistakes
of the baptizers on the Spirit's act, who is not mistaken in any HE baptizeth; no false brethren
creep in unawares into the mystical body by him; and also, how this manner of forming churches
would suit a country, where many are converted, and willing to be baptized; but there being
no church to be baptized into, how shall such a church state begin? The first must be baptized
into no church, and the rest into him as the church, or the work stand still for want of a church.

Object. 'But God is a God of order, and hath ordained order in all the churches of Christ;
and for to receive one that holds the baptism he had in his infancy, there is no command nor
example for, and by the same rule children will be brought in to be church members.'

Ans. That God is a God of order, and hath ordained orders in all the churches of Christ is
true; and that this is one of the orders to receive him that is weak in the faith, is as true.
And though there be no example or command, in so many words, receive such an one that holds
the baptism he had in his infancy, nor to reject such a one: but there is a command to receive
him that is weak in the faith, without limitation, and it is like this might not be a doubt
in those days, and so not spoken of in particular.

But the Lord provides a remedy for all times in the text, 'Him that is weak in the faith receive
ye'; for else receiving would not be upon the account of saintship; but upon knowing, and doing
all things according to rule and order, and that must be perfectly, else for to deny any thing,
or to affirm too much is disorderly, and would hinder receiving: but the Lord seals not so
with his people, but accounts 'LOVE the fulfilling of the law,' though they be ignorant in
many things both as to knowing and doing; and receives them into communion and fellowship with
himself, and would have others do the same also. And if he would have so much bearing in the
apostle's days, when they had infallible helps to expound truths unto them, much more now,
the church hath been so long in the wilderness and in captivity, and not that his people should
be driven away in the dark day, though they are sick and weak (Eze 34:16,21). And that it should
be supposed such tenderness would bring in children in age to be church members, yea and welcome,
if any body could prove them in the faith, though never so weak; for the text is, 'Him that
is weak in the faith, receive ye': It is not He, and his wife and children, unless it can be
proved they are IN THE FAITH.

Object. 'By this, some ordinances may be lost or omitted, and is it to be supposed the Lord
would suffer any of his ordinances to be lost or omitted in the Old or New Testament, or the
right use of them, and yet own such for true churches, and what reason can there be for it.?'

Ans. The Lord hath suffered some ordinances to be omitted and lost in the Old Testament, and
yet owned the church. Though circumcision were omitted in the wilderness, yet he owned them
to be his church (Acts 7:38); and many of the ordinances were lost in the captivity: see Ainsworth
upon Exodus 28, 30 &c. which shewed what the high-priest was to put on, and were not to be
omitted upon pain of death, as the Urim and Thummim, yet being lost, and several other ordinances,
the ark, with the mercy-seat and cherubims, the fire from heaven, the majesty and divine presence,
&c. yet, he owns the second temple, though short of the first, and filled it with his glory,
and honoured it with his Son, being a member and a minister therein (Mal 3:1), 'The Lord whom
ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple': So in the New Testament, since their wilderness
condition, and great and long captivity, there is some darkness and doubts, and want of light
in the best of the Lord's people, in many of his ordinances, and that for several ages, and
yet how hath the Lord owned them for his churches, wherein he is to have glory and praise 'throughout
all ages' (Eph 3:21). And so should we own them, unless we will condemn the generation of the
just. It must be confessed, That if exact practice be required, and clearness in gospel institutions
before communion; who dare be so bold as to say his hands are clean, and that he hath done
all the Lord's commands, as to institutions in his worship? and must not confess the change
of times doth necessitate some variation, if not alteration, either in the matter or manner
of things according to primitive practice; yet owned for true churches, and received as visible
saints, though ignorant either wholly, or in great measure, in laying on of hands, singing,
washing of feet, and anointing with oil, in the gifts of the Spirit, which is the Urim and
Thummim of the gospel. And it cannot be proved, that the churches were so ignorant in the primitive
times, nor yet that such were received into fellowship; yet now herein it is thought meet their
should be bearing, and why not in baptism, especially in such as own it for an ordinance, though
in some things miss it, and do yet shew their love unto it, and unto the Lord, and unto his
law therein, that they could be willing to die for it rather than to deny it; and to be baptized
in their blood; which sheweth, they hold it in conscience their duty, while they have further
light from above, and are willing to hear and obey as far as they know, though weak in the
faith, as to clearness in gospel institutions: surely the text is on their side, or else it
will exclude all the former, 'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,--but not to doubtful
disputations' (Rom 14:5). Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind, and such the Lord
hath received.

As to the query, What reason is there, why the Lord should suffer any of his ordinances to be lost?

Ans. If there were no reason to be shewn, it should teach us silence, for he doth nothing without
the highest reason; and there doth appear some reasons in the Old Testament, why those ordinances
of Urim and Thummim, &c. were suffered to be lost in the captivity, that they might long and
look for the Lord Jesus, the priest, that was to stand up with Urim and Thummim (Ezra 2:63;
Neh 7:65), which the Lord by this puts them upon the hoping for, and to be in the expectation
of so great a mercy, which was the promise of the Old Testament, and all the churches losses
in the New Testament. By all the dark night of ignorance she hath been in, and long captivity
she hath been under, and in her wandering wilderness state, wherein she hath rather been fed
with manna from heaven, than by men upon earth; and after all her crosses and losses, the Lord
lets light break in by degrees, and deliverance by little and little; and she is 'coming out
of the wilderness leaning upon her beloved'; and the Lord hath given the valley of Achor for
a door of hope, that ere long she may receive the promise of the gospel richly, by the Spirit,
to be poured upon us from on high (Isa 32:15), and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and
the fruitful field become a forest, and then the Lord will take away the covering cast over
all people (Isa 25:7), and the vail that is spread over all nations (Isa 11:9); 'For the earth
shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea' (v 13). Then 'Ephraim
shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim.' Thus will the God of peace bruise Satan
under foot shortly; and one reason why the Lord may suffer all this darkness and differences
that have been, and yet are, is, that we might long and look for this blessed promise of the
gospel, the pourings out of the Spirit.

Object. But many authors do judge, that the weak and strong were all in church fellowship before,
and that the receiving (Rom 14:1) was but into mutual affection.

Ans. It ought to be seriously weighed how any differ from so many worthy authors, is confessed;
to whom the world is so much beholden for their help in many things; but it would be of dangerous
consequence to take all for granted they say, and unlike the noble Bereans (Acts 17:11). Though
they had some infallible teachers, yet they took not their words or doctrine upon trust; and
there may be more ground to question expositors on this text, in regard their principles necessitate
them to judge that the sense; for if it be in their judgments a duty to compel all to come
in, and to receive all, and their children, they must needs judge by that text, they were all
of the church, and in fellowship, before their scrupling meats and days, because that is an
act of grown persons at years of discretion; and therefore the receiving is judged by them
to be only into mutual affection, for it is impossible for them to hold their opinion, and
judge otherwise of the text; for in baptism, they judge infants should be received into church
fellowship; and then scrupling meats and days must needs be after joining. Their judgments
might as well be taken, that it is a duty to baptize infants, as that they can judge of this
text rightly, and hold their practice.

Object. But no uncircumcised person was to eat the passover (Exo 12). And doth not the Lord
as well require the sign of baptism now, as of circumcision then? and is there not like reason
for it?

Ans. And no doubt, Christ was as faithful as a son in all his house, as Moses was as a servant;
and although there had been little reason, if the Lord had commanded it so to be, yet in God's
worship we must not make the likeness of any thing in our reason, but the will of God, the
ground of duty; for upon such a foundation some would build the baptizing of infants, because
it would be like unto circumcision, and so break the second commandment, in making the likeness
of things of their own contrivance, of force with institutions in the worship of God.

The most that I think can be said is, That we have no gospel example for receiving without
baptism, or rejecting any for want of it. Therefore it is desired, what hath been said, may
be considered; lest while we look for an example, we do not overlook a command upon a mistake,
supposing that they were all in church fellowship before; whereas the text saith not so, but
'Him that is weak in the faith receive ye,' or unto you.

We may see also how the Lord proceeds under the law, though he accounts those things that were
done contrary to his law, sinful, though done ignorantly; yet never required the offender to
offer sacrifice till he knew thereof (Lev 5:5 compared with vv 15,16). And that may be a man's
own sin through his ignorance; that though it may be another's duty to endeavour to inform
him in, yet not thereupon to keep him out of his Father's house; for surely the Lord would
not have any of his children kept out, without we have a word for it. And though they scruple
some meats in their Father's house, yet it may be dangerous for the stronger children to deny
them all the rest of the dainties therein, till the weak and sick can eat strong meat; whereas
Peter had meat for one, and milk for another; and Peter must feed the poor lambs as well as
the sheep; and if others will not do it, the great shepherd will come ere long and look up
what hath been driven away (Eze 34:4,11; Isa 40:11). He will feed his flock like a shepherd;
he shall gather the lambs into his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.

FOOTNOTES:

1. Who is there that reads these revilings of Bunyan for his poverty and mean descent, but
must be struck with the unsearchable wisdom of the Almighty. The salvation of the church requires
that 'GOD should be manifest in the flesh.' Does he appear in his glory? Does he honour riches,
and power, and wisdom, by descending in one of these classes? No; the poor, the despised in
this world, claim kindred with him--'Is not this the carpenter's son?' 'Have any of the rulers
or pharisees believed on him?' Even with these examples before them, his Baptist ministerial
brethren, who sat at his feet when he came to London, and listened to his eloquence, now, in
their hot dispute, revile and taunt him with his imprisonment--his poverty--his want of book
learning. Refused the communion of some eminent earthly saints, it drove him to closer communion
with his God, and the prison, became a Bethel--none other than the house of God, and the very
gate of heaven; and in a holy, happy frame of soul, he breathes forgiveness: 'What Mr. Kiffin
hath done in the matter I forgive, and love him never the worse'!!--Ed.

2. How do these verses cut down all the carnal pride of man. Who is THE BLESSED? not the rich,
or powerful, or worldly wise, but those that delight in the word of God.--Ed.

3. Nearly all the Baptist churches of that day limited communion to them who had been baptized
in water on a profession of their faith. It is very different now; Bunyan's principles have
spread, are spreading, and must soon become universal.--Ed.

4. Mr. H. D'Anvers: 'A seventh end of baptism is, that the baptized person may orderly thereby
have an entrance into the visible church. None were esteemed members, or did partake of its
ordinances, before they were baptized, being so God's hedge or boundary.'--Treatise of Baptism,
p. 20, ed. 1674.

5. A modern writer, in a critique on Bunyan, says that he did as much justice to grace as his
Calvinism would allow him!! May all the world be such Calvinists.--Ed.

6. 'Without the church,' previous to having entered into the church, a personal obedience to
the divine command; having repented, then be baptized: neither of these are duties to be performed
by the church, as such, but individually.--Ed.

7. 'To themselves,' to the particular churches only to which they were written. Contrary to
the word, 'All scripture is given--to be profitable to the man of God' in every church (2 Tim
3:16).--Ed.

8. How awful the thought that multitudes of professing Christians rely upon outward ceremonies,
a fleshly carnal confidence in ordinances, while they are dead as to union with God and to
spiritual communion with his saints. Reader, how is it with your own soul.--Ed.

9. Bunyan's adversaries were wrong in stating that all the expositors agreed in referring this
'one baptism' to be that in or with water. John Caime, 1662, refers to 1 Corinthians 12:13,
as an illustration of Ephesians 4:5, 'One baptism,' 'by one SPIRIT are we all baptized.' The
Assembly's Annotations, 1657, infers that 'one' means 'once,' and refers to the Nicene creed,
which says, 'one baptism for the remission of sins'; this surely cannot mean that the application
of water remits sins. Diodati, 1648, is silent on this subject. Dr. Hammond, 1653, says, 'the
same vow to be administered to all.' Very similar to this is the Dutch annotations of Theodore
Haak.--Ed.

10. Heaven forbid that we should be afraid or ashamed of saying that Christ is better than
water baptism. Christ is the heavenly manna, the sweet, pleasant, nourishing food of the soul.
Baptism is only once for life, but Christ is our essential food all through the wilderness--every
hour of life until we enter the gates of the celestial and eternal city.--Ed.

11. While we acknowledge the importance of water baptism, to which Christ submitted, yet we
do well to consider that it was not intended as a means of purifying his infinite purity; no
more does it purify the believer who follows his Redeemer in this ordinance. He was as much
a believer before as he is after the ceremony. He submits to it as an act of obedience to the
divine command, in the humble hope that his faith may be strengthened and his soul refreshed.--Ed.

12. 'The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God' (James 1:20). The angry passions
of man work evil. Such fiery zeal is contrary to the spirit of Christ. The ignorant must be
won by meekness to embrace the truth.--Ed.

13. It becomes all prayerfully to follow divine commands in ALL THINGS. Nothing is indifferent
or non-essential that God hath ordained for the believer. But if disciples differ about days,
or meats, or water, ought such differences to prevent their communion and fellowship more than
differences in personal stature, or beauty, or in mental powers. Uniformity in anything but
love to God and to each other is a fool's paradise, contrary to the experience of the apostolic
and all ages, and opposed to every law of nature.--Ed.

14. This typographical error in 'The Reasons of my Practice' is corrected in this edition for
the first time.--Ed.

15. The doctrine of the real presence, called transubstantiation, was the test of adherence
to the Romish church, which unless all persons pretended to believe they were sacrificed with
brutal ferocity.--Ed.

16. In Bunyan's days, both the laws of the land, the judges, and the commonalty, gave credence
to the wicked gambols of wizards and witches. Many a poor iniquitous old woman, from some mysterious
hints of her power to tell fortunes, or to gratify the revengeful feelings of her neighbours,
was put to a cruel death. More enlightened times have dissipated this illusion, and driven
these imaginary imps of darkness into benighted countries.--Ed.

17. 'Me-hap-soes,' a contraction of 'it may so happen.'--Ed.

18. Tyndale, and all the early English translations, rend it 'unto you,' until the Elisabethan
State Bible, called the Bishop's, in 1568. Do not the words mean that Christians are to receive
such as are weak in the faith into their hearts by love, without troubling their heads with
perplexing disputes?--Ed.

19. Under the Old Testament dispensation; the parable or history is recorded in Luke 10.--Ed.

20. We cannot offer to God any acceptable sacrifice until spiritually baptized. First joined
to God by a living faith in the atoning sacrifice of Christ, and then bringing forth the fruits
of this internal and purifying baptism, we must give ourselves to his church in the bonds of
the gospel.--Ed.

***

PEACEABLE PRINCIPLES AND TRUE: OR, A BRIEF ANSWER TO MR. D'ANVER'S AND MR. PAUL'S BOOKS AGAINST
MY CONFESSION OF FAITH, AND DIFFERENCES IN JUDGMENT ABOUT BAPTISM NO BAR TO COMMUNION.

WHEREIN THEIR SCRIPTURELESS NOTIONS ARE OVERTHROWN, AND MY PEACEABLE PRINCIPLES STILL MAINTAINED.

'Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men?'--Psalm
58:1

SIR,

I have received and considered your short reply to my differences in judgment about water baptism
no bar to communion; and observe, that you touch not the argument at all: but rather labour
what you can, and beyond what you ought, to throw odiums upon your brother for reproving you
for your error, viz. 'That those believers that have been baptized after confession of faith
made by themselves, ought and are in duty bound to exclude from their church fellowship, and
communion at the table of the Lord, those of their holy brethren that have not been so baptized.'
This is your error. Error, I call it, because it is not founded upon the word, but a mere human
device; for although I do not deny, but acknowledge, that baptism is God's ordinance; yet I
have denied, that baptism was ever ordained of God to be a wall of division between the holy
and the holy; the holy that are, and the holy that are not, so baptized with water as we. You,
on the contrary, both by doctrine and practice, assert that it is; and therefore do separate
yourselves from all your brethren that in that matter differ from you; accounting them, notwithstanding
their saving faith and holy lives, not fitly qualified for church communion, and all because
they have not been, as you, baptized. Further, you count their communion among themselves unlawful,
and therefore unwarrantable; and have concluded, 'they are joined to idols, and that they ought
not to be shewed the pattern of the house of God, until they be ashamed of their sprinkling
in their infancy, and accept of and receive baptism as you.' Yea, you count them as they stand,
not the churches of God; saying, 'We have no such custom, nor the churches of God.' At this
I have called for your proofs, the which you have attempted to produce; but in conclusion have
shewed none other, but 'That the primitive churches had those they received, baptized before
so received.'

I have told you, that this, though it were granted, cometh not up to the question; for we ask
not, 'whether they were so baptized? But whether you find a word in the Bible that justifieth
your concluding that it is your duty to exclude those of your holy brethren that have not been
so baptized?' From this you cry out, that I take up the arguments of them that plead for infant
baptism: I answer, I take up no other argument but your own, viz. 'That there being no precept,
precedent, nor example in all the scripture, for our excluding our holy brethren that differ
in this point from us, therefore we ought not to dare to do it,' but contrariwise to receive
them;[1] because God hath given us sufficient proof that himself hath received them, whose
example in this case he hath commanded us to follow (Rom 14:3,15). This might serve for an
answer to your reply. But because, perhaps, should I thus conclude, some might make an ill
use of my brevity; I shall therefore briefly step after you, and examine your short reply;
at least, where shew of argument is.

Your first five pages are spent to prove me either proud or a liar; for inserting in the title-page
of my 'Differences,' &c. that your book was written by the Baptist, or brethren of your way.

In answer to which; whoso readeth your second, your fifth and sixth questions to me, may not
perhaps be easily persuaded to the contrary; but the two last in your reply, are omitted by
you; whether for verity's sake, or because you were conscious to yourself, that the sight of
them would overthrow your insinuations, I leave to the sober to judge. But put the case I had
failed herein, Doth this warrant your unlawful practice?

You ask me next, 'How long is it since I was a Baptist?' and then add, 'It is an ill bird that
bewrays his own nest.'

Ans. I must tell you, avoiding your slovenly language, I know none to whom that title is so
proper as to the disciples of John. And since you would know by what name I would be distinguished
from others; I tell you, I would be, and hope I am, A CHRISTIAN; and choose, if God should
count me worthy, to be called a Christian, a Believer, or other such name which is approved
by the Holy Ghost (Acts 11:26). The cause of my writing, I told you, which you have neither
disapproved in whole, nor in part. And now I ask what kind of christian correspondency you
have with them? Is it such as relateth to church communion; or such only as you are commanded
to have with every brother that walketh disorderly, that they may be ashamed of their church
communion, which you condemn? if so, your great flourish will add no praise to them; and why
they should glory in a correspondency with them as Christians, who yet count them under such
deadly sin, which will not by any means, as they now stand, suffer you to admit them to their
Father's table, to me is not easy to believe.

Farther, Your christian correspondency, as you call it, will not keep you now and then, from
fingering some of their members from them; nor from teaching them that you so take away, to
judge and condemn them that are left behind: Now who boasteth in this besides yourself, I know not.

Touching Mr. Jesse's judgment in the case in hand, you know it condemneth your practice; and
since in your first, you have called for an author's testimony, I have presented you with one,
whose arguments you have not condemned.

For your insinuating my abusive and unworthy behaviour, as the cause of the brethren's attempting
to break our Christian communion; it is not only false but ridiculous. False; for they have
attempted to make me also one of their disciples, and sent to me, and for me for that purpose.
Besides, it is ridiculous; surely their pretended order, and as they call it, our disorder,
was the cause; or they must render themselves very malicious, to seek the overthrow of a whole
congregation, for, if it had been so, the unworthy behaviour of one.

Now, since you tell me 'That Mr. Kiffin hath no need of my forgiveness for the wrong he hath
done me in his epistle.'

I ask, did he tell you so? But let it lie as it doth; I will at this time turn his argument
upon him, and desire his direct answer: There being no precept, precedent or example for Mr.
Kiffin to exclude his holy brethren from Christian communion that differ with him about baptism,
he ought not to do it; but there is neither precept, precedent, nor example; therefore, &c.

You blame me for writing his name at length: but I know he is not ashamed of his name: and
for you, though at the remotest rate, to insinuate it, must needs be damage to him.

Your artificial squibbling[2] suggestions to the world about myself, imprisonment, and the
like I freely bind unto me as an ornament among the rest of my reproaches, till the Lord shall
wipe them off at his coming. But they are no argument that you have a word that binds you to
exclude the holy brethren communion.

Now what if, as you suggest, the sober Dr. Owen, though he told me and others at first he would
write an epistle to my book, yet waved it afterwards; this is also to my advantage; because
it was through the earnest solicitations of several of you that at that time stopped his hand;
And perhaps it was more for the glory of God that truth should go naked into the world, than
as seconded by so mighty an armour-bearer as he.

You tell me also, that some of the sober Independents have shewed dislike to my writing on
this subject: What then? If I should also say, as I can without lying, that several of the
Baptists have wished yours burnt before it had come to light; is your book ever the worse for that?

You tell us, you meddle not with Presbyterians, Independents, mixed Communionists (a new name),
but are for liberty for all according to their light.

Ans. I ask then, suppose an holy man of God, that differeth from you, as those above-named
do, in the manner of water baptism; I say, suppose such an one should desire communion with
you, yet abiding by his own light, as to the thing in question, Would you receive him to fellowship?
If no, do you not dissemble?

But you add, 'If unbaptized believers do not walk with us, they may walk with them with whom
they are better agreed.'

Ans. Then it seems you do but flatter them. You are not, for all you pretend to give them their
liberty, agreed they should have it with you. Thus do the Papists give the Protestants their
liberty, because they can neither will nor choose.

Again, But do you not follow them with clamours and out-cries, that their communion, even amongst
themselves, is unwarrantable? Now, how then do you give them their liberty? Nay, do not even
these things declare that you would take it away if you could?

'For the time that I have been a Baptist (say you ) I do not remember that ever I knew that
one unbaptized person did so much as offer themselves to us for church fellowship.'

Ans. This is no proof of your love to your brethren; but rather an argument that your rigidness
was from that day to this so apparent, that those good souls despaired to make such attempts;
we know they have done it elsewhere, where they hoped to meet with encouragement.

You seem to retract your denial of baptism to be the initiating ordinance. And indeed Mr. D'Anvers
told me, that you must retract that opinion, and that he had, or would speak to you to do it;
yet by some it is still so acknowledged to be; and in particular, by your great helper, Mr.
Denne, who strives to maintain it by several arguments; but your denial may be a sufficient
confutation to him; so I leave you together to agree about it, and conclude you have overthrown
him.

But it seems though you do not now own it to be the inlet into a particular church; yet, as
you tell us of your last, 'you never denied that baptism doth not make a believer a member
of the universal, orderly, church visible. And in this Mr. D'Anvers and you agree.' 'Persons
enter into the visible church thereby,' saith he.

Ans. Universal, that is, the whole church: This word now comprehendeth all the parts of it,
even from Adam to the very world's end, whether in heaven or earth, &c. Now that [water] baptism
makes a man a member of this church, I do not yet believe, nor can you shew me why I should.
2. The universal, orderly church. What church this should be, if by orderly you mean harmony
or agreement in the outward parts of worship, I do not understand neither.

And yet thus you should mean, because you add the word visible to all at the last; 'The universal,
orderly, visible church.' Now I would yet learn of this brother where this church is; for if
it be visible, he can tell and also shew it. But, to be short, there is no such church: the
universal church cannot be visible; a great part of that vast body being already in heaven,
and a great part as yet, perhaps, unborn.

But if he should mean by universal, the whole of that part of this church that is on earth,
then neither is it 'visible' nor 'orderly.' 1. Not visible; for the part remains always to
the best man's eye utterly invisible. 2. This church is not orderly; that is, hath not harmony
in its outward and visible parts of worship; some parts opposing and contradicting the other
most severely. Yea, would it be uncharitable to believe that some of the members of this body
could willingly die in opposing that which others of the members hold to be a truth of Christ?
As for instance at home; could not some of those called Baptists die in opposing infant baptism?
And again, some of them that are for infant baptism die for that as a truth? Here therefore
is no order, but an evident contradiction: and that too in such parts of worship, as both count
visible parts of worship indeed.

So then by 'universal, orderly, visible church,' this brother must mean those of the saints
only that have been, or are baptized as we; this is clear, because baptism, saith he, maketh
a believer a member of this church; his meaning then is, that there is an universal, orderly,
visible church, and they alone are the Baptists; and that every one that is baptized is by
that made a member of the universal, orderly, visible church of Baptists, and that the whole
number of the rest of saints are utterly excluded.

But now if other men should do as this man, how many universal churches should we have? An
'universal, orderly, visible church of Independents'; an 'universal, orderly, visible church
of Presbyterians,' and the like. And who of them, if as much confused in their notions as this
brother, might not, they judging by their own light, contend for their universal church, as
he for his? But they have more wit.

But suppose that this unheard of fictitious church were the only true universal church; yet
whoever they baptize must be a visible saint first, and if a visible saint, then a visible
member of Christ; and if so, then a visible member of his body, which is the church, before
they be baptized; now he which is a visible member of the church already, that which hath so
made him, hath prevented all those claims that by any may be made or imputed to this or that
ordinance to make him so (Acts 8:37, 19:17, 16:33). His visibility is already; he is already
a visible member of the body of Christ, and after that baptized. His baptism then neither makes
him a member nor a visible member of the body of Jesus Christ.

You go on, 'That I said it was consent that makes persons members of particular churches is true.'

Ans. But that it is consent and nothing else, consent without faith, &c., is false. Your after-endeavour
to heal your unsound saying will do you no good: 'Faith gives being to, as well as probation
for membership.'

What you say now of the epistles, that they were written to particular saints, and those too
out of churches as well as in, I always believed: but in your first you were pleased to say,
'You were one of them that objected against our proofs out of the epistles, because they were
written to particular churches, [intending these baptized] and that they were written to other
saints, would be hard for me to prove': but you do well to give way to the truth.

What I said about baptism's being a PEST, take my words as they lie, and I stand still thereto:
'Knowing that Satan can make any of God's ordinances a PEST and plague to his people, even
baptism, the Lord's table, and the holy scriptures; yea, the ministers also of Jesus Christ
may be suffered to abuse them, and wrench them out of their place.' Wherefore I pray, if you
write again, either consent to, or deny this position, before you proceed in your outcry.

But I must still continue to tell you, though you love not to hear thereof, That supposing
your opinion hath hold of your conscience, if you might have your will, you would make inroads
and outroads too in all the churches that are not as you in the land. You reckon that church
privileges belong not to them who are not baptized as we, saying, 'How can we take these privileges
from them before they have them, we keep them from a disorderly practice of ordinances, especially
among ourselves'; intimating you do what you can also among others: and he that shall judge
those he walketh not with, or say, as you, that they, like Ephraim, are 'joined to an idol,
and ought to repent and be ashamed of that idol before they be shewed the pattern of the house';
and then shall back all with the citation of a text; doth it either in jest or in earnest;
if in jest it is abominable; if in earnest his conscience is engaged; and being engaged, it
putteth him upon doing what he can to extirpate the thing he counteth idolatrous and abominable,
out of the churches abroad, as well as that he stands in relation unto. This being thus, it
is reasonable to conclude, you want not an heart, but opportunity for your inroads and outroads
among them.

Touching those five things I mentioned in my second; you should not have counted they were
found no where, because not found under that head which I mention: and now lest you should
miss them again, I will present you with them here.

1. 'Baptism is not the initiating ordinance. 2. That though it was, the case may so fall out,
that members might be received without it. 3. That baptism makes no man a visible saint. 4.
That faith, and a life becoming the ten commandments, should be the chief and most solid argument
with churches to receive to fellowship. 5. That circumcision in the flesh was a type of circumcision
in the heart, and not of water baptism.' To these you should have given fair answers, then
you had done like a workman.

Now we are come where you labour to insinuate, 'that a transgression against a positive precept,
respecting instituted worship, hath been punished with the utmost severity that God hath executed
against men, on record, on this side hell.'

Ans. Mr. D'Anvers says, 'That to transgress a positive precept respecting worship, is a breach
of the first and second commandments.' If so, then it is for the breach of them, that these
severe rebukes befall the sons of men. 2. But you instance the case of Adam his eating the
forbidden fruit; yet to no great purpose. Adam's first transgression was, that he violated
the law that was written in his heart; in that he hearkened to the tempting voice of his wife;
and after, because he did eat of the tree: he was bad then before he did eat of the tree; which
badness was infused over his whole nature; and then he bare this evil fruit of eating things
that God hath forbidden (Gen 3). Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or the tree
bad, and his fruit bad (Matt 7:17; Luke 6:43,44). Men must be bad, ere they do evil; and good,
ere they do good. Again, which was the greatest judgment, to be defiled and depraved, or to
be put out of paradise, do you in your next determine.

But as to the matter in hand, What positive precept do they transgress that will not reject
him that God bids us receive, if he want light in baptism?

As for my calling for scripture to prove it lawful thus to exclude them; blame me for it no
more; verily I still must do it; and had you but one to give, I had had it long before this.
But you wonder I should ask for a scripture to prove a negative.

Ans. 1. Are you at that door, my brother? If a drunkard, a swearer, or whoremonger should desire
communion with you, and upon your refusal, demand your grounds; would you think his demands
such you ought not to answer? would you not readily give him by SCORES? So, doubtless would
you deal with us, but that in this you are without the lids[3] of the Bible. 2. But again,
you have acted as those that must produce a positive rule. 'You count it your duty, a part
of your obedience to God, to keep those out of church fellowship that are not baptized as you.'
I then demand what precept bids you do this? where are you commanded to do it?

You object, That in Ephesians 4:5 and 1 Corinthians 12:13 is not meant of Spirit baptism: but
Mr. Jesse says it is not, cannot be the baptism with water: and you have not at all refuted
him. And now for the church in the wilderness; 'You thought, as you say, I would have answered
myself in the thing'; but as yet I have not, neither have you. But let us see what you urge
for an answer.

I. Say you, 'Though God dispensed with their obedience to circumcision in that time (Gen 17;
Exo 12) it follows not that you or I should dispense with the ordinance of water baptism now.'

Ans. God commanded it, and made it the initiating ordinance to church communion. But Moses,
and Aaron, and Joshua, and the elders of Israel, dispensed with it for forty years; therefore
the dispensing with it was ministerial, and that with God's allowance, as you affirm. Now if
they might dispense with circumcision, though the initiating ordinance; why may not we receive
God's holy ones into fellowship, since we are not forbidden it, but commanded; yea, why should
we make water baptism, which God never ordained to that end, a bar to shut out and let in to
church communion?

II. You ask, 'Was circumcision dispensed with for want of light, it being plainly commanded?'

Ans. Whatever was the cause, want of light is as great a cause: and that it must necessarily
follow, they must needs see it, because commanded, favours too much of a tang of free will,
or of the sufficiency of our understanding, and intrencheth too hard on the glory of the Holy
Ghost; whose work it is 'to bring all things to our remembrance, whatsoever Christ hath said
to us' (John 14:26).

III. You ask, 'Cannot you give yourself a reason, that their moving, travelling state made
them incapable, and that God was merciful? Can the same reason, or anything like it, for refusing
baptism, be given now?'

Ans. I cannot give myself this reason, nor can you by it give me any satisfaction. Because
their travelling state could not hinder; if you consider that they might, and doubtless did
lie still in one place years together. 1. They were forty years going from Egypt to Canaan:
and they had but forty-two journies thither. 2. They at times went several of these journies
in one and the same year. They went, as I take it, eleven of them by the end of the third month
after they came out of the land of Egypt. Compare Exodus 19:1 with Numbers 33:15. 3. Again,
in the fortieth year, we find them in Mount Hor, where Aaron died, and was buried. Now that
was the year they went into Canaan; and in that year they had nine journies more, or ten, by
that they got over Jordan (Num 33:38), &c. Here then were twenty journies in less than one
year and an half. Divide then the rest of the time to the rest of the journies, and they had
above thirty-eight years to go their two and twenty journies in. And how this should be such
a traveling moving state, as that it should hinder their keeping this ordinance in its season,
to wit, to circumcise their children the eighth day; especially considering to circumcise them
in their childhood, as they were born, might be with more security, than to let them live while
they were men, I see not.

If you should think that their wars in the wilderness might hinder them; I answer, They had,
for ought I can discern, ten times as much fighting in the land of Canaan, where they were
circumcised, as in the wilderness where they were not. And if carnal or outward safety had
been the argument, doubtless they would not have circumcised themselves in the sight, as it
were, of one and thirty kings (Josh 5, 12). I say, they would not have circumcised their six
hundred thousand warriors, and have laid them open to the attempts and dangers of their enemies.
No such thing, therefore, as you are pleased to suggest, was the cause of their not being as
yet circumcised.

VI. 'An extraordinary instance to be brought into a standing rule, are no parallels': That
is the sum of your fourth.

Ans. The rule was ordinary; which was circumcision; the laying aside of this rule became as
ordinary, so long a time as forty years, and in the whole church also. But this is a poor shift,
to have nothing to say, but that the case was extraordinary, when it was not.

But you ask, 'Might they do so when they came into Canaan?'

Ans. No, no. No more shall we do as we do now 'when that which is perfect is come.'

You add, 'Because the church in the wilderness (Rev 12) could not come by ordinances, &c. therefore
when they may be come at, we need not practise them.'

Ans. No body told you so. But are you out of that wilderness mentioned? (Rev 12). Is Antichrist
down and dead to ought but your faith? Or are we only out of that Egyptian darkness, that in
baptism have got the start of our brethren? For shame be silent: yourselves are yet under so
great a cloud, as to imagine to yourselves a Rule of Practice not found in the Bible; that
is, to count it a sin to receive your holy brethren, though not forbidden but commanded to
do it (Rom 14, 15).

Your great flourish against my fourth argument, I leave to them that can judge of the weight
of your words; as also what you say of the fifth or sixth.

For the instance I give you of Aaron, David, and Hezekiah, who did things not commanded, and
that about holy matters, and yet were held excusable; you, nor yet your abettors for you, can
by any means overthrow. Aaron transgressed the commandment (Lev 6:26, 10:18); David did what
was not lawful; and they in Hezekiah's time, 'did eat the passover otherwise than it was written'
(2 Chron 30:18). But here I perceive the shoe pincheth; which makes you glad of Mr. Denne's
evasion for help At this also Mr. D'Anvers cries out, but yet to no purpose, charging me with
asserting, that ignorance absolves from sin of omission and commission. But, Sirs, fairly take
from me the texts, with others that I can urge; and then begin to accuse. You have healed your
suggestion of unwritten verities poorly. But any shift to shift off the force of truth. After
the same manner also you have helped your asserting, 'that you neither keep out, nor cast out
from the church, if baptized, such as come unprepared to the supper, and other solemn appointments.'
Let us leave yours and mine to the pondering of wiser men.

My seventh argument, as I said, you have not so much as touched; nor the ten in that one, but
only derided at the ten. But we will show them to the reader. 1. Love, which above all other
things we are commanded to put on, is much more worth, than to break about baptism (Col 3:14).
2. Love is more discovered, when we receive for the sake of Christ and grace, than when we
refuse for want of water. 3. The church at Colosse was charged to receive and forbear the saints,
because they were new creatures. 4. Some saints were in the church at Jerusalem, that opposed
the preaching of salvation to the Gentiles; and yet retained their membership. 5. Divisions
and distinctions among saints are of later date than election, and the signs of that; and therefore
should give place. 6. It is love, not baptism, that discovereth us to the world to be Christ's
disciples (John 13:35). 7. It is love that is the undoubted character of our interest in, and
fellowship with, Christ (Rom 12:10, 16:10). 8. Fellowship with Christ is sufficient to invite
to, and the new creature the great rule of our fellowship with, Christ (1 John 1:2). 9. Love
is the fulfilling of the law, wherefore he that hath it is accepted with God, and ought to
be approved of men; but he fulfils it not, who judgeth and setteth at nought his brother (Gal
6:16; Phil 3:16; Rom 14; James 4:11). 10. Love is sometimes more seen, and showed in forbearing
to urge and press what we know, than in publishing and imposing (John 16:12; 1 Cor 3:1,2).
11. When we attempt to force our brother beyond his light, or to break his heart with grief,
to trust him beyond his faith, or bar him from his privileges, how can we say I love? 12. To
make that the door to communion which God hath not; to make that the including, excluding charter,
the bar, bounds, and rule of communion, is for want of love. Here are two into the bargain.

If any of these, Sir, please you not in this dress; give me a word; and I shall, as well as
my wit will serve, give you them in a syllogistical mode.

Now that you say (practically) for some speak with their feet (their walking (Prov 6:13)) that
water is above love; and all other things are evident; because have they all but water, you
refuse them for want of that; yea, and will be so hardy, though without God's word, to refuse
communion with them.

In our discourse about the carnality that was the cause of the divisions that were at Corinth,
you ask, Who must the charge of carnality fall upon, them that defend, or them that oppose
the truth?

Ans. Perhaps on both; but be sure upon them that oppose, wherefore look you to yourselves,
'who without any command of God to warrant you, exclude your brother from communion; your brother
whom God hath commanded you to receive.'

My ninth argument, you make yourself merry with in the beginning: but why do you by and by
so cut and hack, and cast it as it were in the fire. Those seventeen absurdities you can by
no means avoid. For if you have not, as indeed you have not, though you mock me for speaking
a word in Latin, one word of God that commands you to shut out your brethren for want of water
baptism, from your communion; I say, if you have not one word of God to make this a duty to
you, then unavoidably, 1. You do it by a spirit of persecution. 2. With more respect to a form,
than the spirit and power of godliness. 3. This also, makes laws, where God makes none; and
is to be wise above what is written. 4. It is a directing the Spirit of the Lord. 5. 9. It
tendeth to harden the hearts of the wicked. 15. It abuseth the holy scriptures. 16. It is a
prop to Antichrist. 17. And giveth occasion to many to turn aside to most dangerous errors.

I come next to what you have said in justification of your fourteen arguments. 'Such as they
were,' say you, 'I am willing to stand by them: What I have offered, I have offered modestly:
according to the utmost light I had into those scriptures upon which they are bottomed; having
not arrived unto such a peremptory way of dictatorship, as what I render must be taken for
laws binding to others in faith and practice; and therefore express myself by suppositions,
strong presumptions, and fair seeming conclusions from the premises.'

Ans. Your arguments, as you truly say, are builded upon, or drawn from suppositions and presumptions;
and all because you want for your help the words of the holy scripture. And let the reader
note. For as I have often called for the word, but as yet could never get it, because you have
it not, neither in precept, precedent, nor example, therefore come you forth with your seeming
imports and presumptions.

The judicious reader will see in this last, that not only here, but in other places, what poor
shifts you are driven to, to keep your pen going. But, Sir, since you are not peremptory in
your proof; how came you to be so absolute in your practice? For notwithstanding all your seeming
modesty, you will neither grant these communion with you; nor allow their communion among themselves,
that turn aside from your 'seeming imports'; and that go not with you in your strong presumptions.
You must not; you dare not; lest you countenance their idolatry; and nourish them up in sin;
they live in the breach of gospel-order; and Ephraim-like are joined to an idol. And as for
your love, it amounts to this, you thus deal with them, and withdraw from them, and all because
of some strong presumptions and suppositions.

But you tell me, 'I use the arguments of the paedo-baptist, to wit, But where are infants forbidden
to be baptized?'

But I ingenuously tell you, I know not what paedo means: and how then should I know his arguments.
1. I take no man's argument but Mr. K.'s, I must not name him farther, I say I take no man's
argument but his now, viz. 'That there being no precept, precedent or example, for you to shut
your holy brethren out of church communion; therefore you should not do it.' That you have
no command to do it, is clear, and you must of necessity grant it. Now where there is no precept
for a foundation; it is not what you by all your reasonings can suggest; can deliver you from
the guilt of adding to his word. Are you commanded to reject them; If yea, where is it? If
nay, for shame be silent.

'Let us say what we will,' say you, 'for our own practice; unless we bring positive scriptures
that yours is forbidden, though nowhere written; you will be as a man in a rage without it;
and would have it thought you go away with the garland.'

Ans. 1. I am not in a rage, but contend with you earnestly for the truth. And say what you
will or can, though with much more squibbing frumps[4] and taunts than hitherto you have mixed
our writing with, Scripture, scripture, we cry still. And it is a bad sign that your cause
is naught; when you snap and snarl because I call for scripture. 2. Had you a scripture for
this practice, that you ought to shut your brethren out of communion for want of water baptism
I had done; but you are left of the word of God, and confess it! 3. And as you have not a text
that justifies your own; so neither that condemns our holy and Christian communion. We are
commanded also to receive him that is weak in the faith, for God hath received him. I read
not of garlands, but those in the Acts; take you them. And I say moreover, that honest and
holy Mr. Jesse hath justified our practice, and you have not condemned his arguments. They
therefore stand all upon their feet against you.

I leave your 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 arguments under my answers where they are suppressed. In your
seventh you again complain, for that I touch your 'seeming imports'; saying, 'I do not use
to say as John Bunyan, this I say, and I dare to say. I please myself by commending my apprehensions
soberly, and submissively to others much above me.'

Ans. 1. Seeming imports are a base and unworthy foundation for a practice in religion; and
therefore I speak against them. 2. Where you say, you submit your apprehensions soberly to
those much above you; it is false; unless you conclude none are above you, but those of your
own opinion. Have you soberly, and submissively commended your apprehensions to those congregations
in London, that are not of your persuasion in the case in hand? and have you consented to stand
by their opinion? Have you commended your apprehensions soberly and submissively to those you
call Independents and Presbyters? And are you willing to stand by their judgment in the case?
Do you not reserve to yourself the liberty of judging what they say? and of choosing what you
judge is right, whether they conclude with you or no? If so; why do you so much dissemble with
all the world, in print; to pretend you submit to others' judgment, and yet abide to condemn
their judgments? you have but one help: perhaps you think they are not above you; and by that
proviso secure yourself; but it will not do.

For the offence you take at any comment upon your calling baptism, 'a livery': and for your
calling it 'the Spirit's metaphorical description of baptism': both phrases are boldness, without
the word. Neither do I find it called a listing ordinance, nor the solemnization of the marriage
betwixt Christ and a believer. But perhaps you had this from Mr. D'Anvers, who pleaseth himself
with this kind of wording it: and says moreover in justification of you, 'That persons entered
into the visible church thereby [by baptism, which is untrue, though Mr. Baxter also saith
it] are by consent admitted into particular congregations, where they may claim their privileges
due to baptized believers, being orderly put into the body, and put on Christ by their baptismal
vow and covenant: for by that public declaration of consent, is the marriage and solemn contract
made betwixt Christ and a believer in baptism. And, saith he, if it be preposterous and wicked
for a man and woman to cohabit together, and to enjoy the privileges of a married state without
the passing of that public solemnity: So it is NO less disorderly upon a spiritual account,
for any to claim the privileges of a church, or be admitted to the same, till the passing of
this solemnity by them.'

Ans. But these words are very black. First, Here he hath not only implicitly forbidden Jesus
Christ to hold communion with the saints that are not yet his by [water] baptism; but is bold
to charge him with being as preposterous and wicked if he do, as a man that liveth with a woman
in the privileges of a married state, without passing that public solemnity. Secondly, He here
also chargeth him as guilty of the same wickedness, that shall but dare to claim church communion
without it; yea, and the whole church too, if they shall admit such members to their fellowship.

And now since cleaving to Christ by vow and covenant, will not do without baptism, after personal
confession of faith; what a state are all those poor saints of Jesus in, that have avowed themselves
to be his a thousand times without THIS baptism? Yea, and what a case is Jesus Christ in too,
by your argument, to hold that communion with them, that belongeth only unto them that are
married to him by this solemnity! Brother, God give him repentance. I wot that through ignorance
and a preposterous zeal he said it: unsay it again with tears, and by a public renunciation
of so wicked and horrible words; but I thus sparingly pass you by.[5]

I shall not trouble the world any farther with an answer to the rest of your books: The books
are public to the world: let men read and judge. And had it not been for your endeavouring
to stigmatize me with reproach and scandal, a thing that doth not become you, I needed not
have given you two lines in answer.

And now, my angry brother, if you shall write again, pray keep to the question, namely, 'What
precept, precedent, or example have you in God's word to exclude your holy brethren from church
communion for want of water baptism.' Mr. Denne's great measure, please yourself with it, and
when you shall make his arguments your own, and tell me so, you perhaps may have an answer,
but considering him, and comparing his notions with his conversation, I count it will be better
for him to be better in morals, before he be worthy of an answer.

THE CONCLUSION.

Reader, when Moses sought to set the brethren that strove against each other, at one, he that
did the wrong thrust him away, as unwilling to be hindered in his ungodly attempts; but Moses
continuing to make peace betwixt them, the same person attempted to charge him with a murderous
and bloody design, saying, 'Wilt thou kill me as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday?' (Exo 2:14)
a thing too commonly thrown upon those that seek peace, and ensue it (Acts 7:24-29). 'My soul,'
saith David, 'hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am for peace, [said he] but when
I speak, they are for war' (Psa 120:6,7). One would think that even nature itself should count
peace and concord a thing of greatest worth among saints, especially since they, above all
men, know themselves; for he that best knoweth himself is best able to pity and bear with another
(Heb 5:2); yet even amongst these, such will arise, as will make divisions among their brethren,
and seek 'to draw away disciples after them' (Acts 20:30), crying still that they, even they
are in the right, and all that hold not with them in the wrong, and to be withdrawn from (Rom
16:17). But when every HE, hath said all that he can, it is one of the things which the Lord
hateth, to sow 'discord among brethren' (Prov 6:19).[6]

Yet many years' experience we have had of these mischievous attempts, as also have others in
other places, as may be instanced if occasion requireth it, and that especially by those of
the rigid way of our brethren, the Baptists so called, whose principles will neither allow
them to admit to communion, the saint that different from them about baptism, nor consent they
should communicate in a church-state among themselves: but take occasion still ever as they
can, both to reproach their church-state, and to finger from amongst them who they can to themselves.
These things being grievous to those concerned, as we are, though perhaps those at quiet are
too little concerned in the matter, therefore when I could no longer forbear, I thought good
to present to public view the warrantableness of our holy communion, and the unreasonableness
of their seeking to break us to pieces. At this Mr. William K[iffin], Mr. Thomas Paul, and
Mr. Henry D'Anvers, and Mr. Denne, fell with might and main upon me; some comparing me to the
devil, others to a bedlam, others to a sot, and the like, for my seeking peace and truth among
the godly. Nay, further, they began to cry out murder, as if I intended nothing less than to
accuse them to the magistrate, and to render them incapable of a share in the commonwealth,
when I only struck at their heart-breaking, church-rending principles and practice; in their
excluding their holy brethren's communion from them, and their condemning of it [eve] among
themselves. They also follow me with slanders and reproaches, counting, it seems, such things
arguments to defend themselves.

But I in the meantime call for proof, scripture proof, to convince me it is a duty to refuse
communion with those of the saints that differ from them about baptism: at this Mr. P[aul]
takes offence, calling my demanding of proof for their rejecting the unbaptized believer, how
excellent soever in faith and holiness, a clamorous calling for proof, with high and swelling
words, which he counteth not worthy of answer; but I know the reason, he by this demand is
shut out of the Bible, as himself also suggesteth: wherefore when coming to assault me with
arguments, he can do it but by seeming imports, suppositions, and strong presumptions, and
tells you farther in his reply, 'That this is the utmost of his light in the scriptures urged
for his practice'; of which light thou mayest easily judge, good reader, that hast but the
common understanding of the mind of God, concerning brotherly love. Strange! that the scripture
that everywhere commandeth and presseth to love, to forbearance, and bearing the burden of
our brother; should yet imply, or implicitly import that we should shut them out of our Father's
house; or that those scriptures that command us to receive the weak, should yet command us
to shut out the strong! Thinkest thou, reader, that the scripture hath two faces, and speaketh
with two mouths? yet it must do so, by these men's doctrine. It saith expressly, 'Receive one
another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God' (Rom 15:7). But these men say, it
is not duty, it is preposterous, and idolatrous; concluding that to receive this brother, is
not a custom of them, not yet of the churches of God: consequently telling thee, that those
that receive such a brother are not (let them talk while they will) any of the churches of
God: see their charity, their candour and love, in the midst of their great pretensions of love.

But be thou assured, christian reader, that for these their uncharitable words and actions,
they have not footing in the word of God, neither can they heal themselves with suggesting
their amicable correspondence to the world. Church communion I plead for, church communion
they deny them, yet church communion is scripture communion, and we read of none other among
the saints. True, we are commanded to withdraw 'from every brother that walketh disorderly,--that
he may be ashamed, yet not to count him as an enemy, but to admonish him as a brother' (2 Thess
3:6,14,15). If this be that they intend, for I know not of another communion, that we ought
to have with those, to whom we deny church communion; then what ground of rejoicing those have
that are thus respected by their brethren, I leave it to themselves to consider of.

In the meanwhile, I affirm, 'that baptism with water, is neither a bar nor bolt to communion
of saints, nor a door nor inlet to communion of saints.' The same which is the argument of
my books; and as some of the moderate among themselves have affirmed, that neither Mr. K.,
Mr. P. nor Mr. D'Anvers, have made invalid, though sufficiently they have made their assault.

For Mr. Denne, I suppose they count him none of themselves, though both he, and Mr. Lamb, like
to like, are brought for authors and abetters of their practice, and to refel my peaceable
principle. For Mr. Denne, if either of the three will make his arguments their own, they may
see what their servant can do: but I shall not bestow paper and ink upon him, nor yet upon
Mr. Lamb; the one already, having given his profession the lie, and for the other perhaps they
that know his life, will see little of conscience in the whole of his religion, and conclude
him not worth the taking notice of. Besides Mr. P. hath also concluded against Mr. Denne, That
baptism is not the initiating ordinance, and that his utmost strength for the justification
of his own practise is, 'suppositions, imports, and strong presumptions,' things that they
laugh at, despise and deride, when brought by their brethren to prove infant baptism.

Railing for railing, I will not render, though one of these opposers, Mr. Dan. by name, did
tell me, that Mr. Paul's reply when it came out, would sufficiently provoke me to so beastly
a work: but what is the reason of his so writing, if not the peevishness of his own spirit,
or the want of better matter.

This I thank God for, that some of the brethren of this way, are of late more moderate than
formerly, and that those that retain their former sourness still, are left by their brethren,
to the vinegar of their own spirits, their brethren ingeniously confessing, that could these
of their company bear it, they have liberty in their own souls to communicate with saints as
saints, though they differ about water baptism.

Well, God banish bitterness out of the churches, and pardon them that are the maintainers of
schisms and divisions among the godly. 'Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren
to dwell together in unity!

I was advised by some, who considered the wise man's proverb, not to let Mr. Paul pass with
all his bitter invectives, but I consider that the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness
of God; therefore I shall leave him to the censure and rebuke of the sober, where I doubt not
but his unsavoury ways with me will be seasonably brought to his remembrance. Farewell.

I am thine to serve thee, Christian, so long as I can look out at those eyes, that have had
so much dirt thrown at them by many.

FOOTNOTES:

1. A tender conscience, jealous of grieving or offending the Holy Spirit, is of an inestimable
value. If in our conscientious conclusions we offend others, we must leave to them an equal
right to their own conclusions without harsh judgment.--Ed.

2. 'Squibbling,' feeble, ill-natured ridicule; now obsolete.--Ed.

3. 'Without the lids of the Bible,' not within it; a popular Puritan saying.--Ed.

4. 'Frump,' to mock, flout, scoff. 'You must learn to mock; to frump your own father on occason.'
Ironically used in Ruggle's Ignoramus.--Ed.

5. Mr. D'Anvers, in a postscript to his History of Baptism, the first edition, 1673, thus violently
attacks his brother Bunyan:--'Having read his book, I took myself concerned to give some short
return to it, leaving his "manifold absurdities," "contradictions," "unbrotherly tauntings
and reflections," "contemptions," "traducings the wisdom of Christ, and his holy appointments,"
to be called to account by that band that hath so well begun to reckon with him.' He was in
prison, and his brother thus visits him with gall and wormwood instead of consoling cordials.
He goes on to confound water baptism with that of the Spirit, and charges Bunyan with 'ignorance
and folly--dangerous and destructive to religion itself,' 'contradicting the authority of Christ,'
calls him 'egregiously ignorant,' 'self-condemning.' All this uncharitable vituperation was
because Mr. Bunyan would hold communion with all those who had been baptized into, and put
on, Christ. The passage quoted is correct, except that 'married estate' should be 'marriage
state.' So satisfied was D'Anvers with the just and Christian correction given him for so egregious
a blunder, that if he did not repent with tears, he took special care to leave out all this
absurd reference to the marriage ceremony performed in water from his second edition.--Ed.

6. Strife and contention--evil speaking of surmisings among professors, are tokens of a carnal
mind, injurious to spiritual peace, and abominable to God. The envious, discontented, and malicious,
are the devil's working tools. If such die unsubdued by divine grace, they plunge themselves
into the bottomless pit. True wisdom avid strife and contention, is moderate in doubtful opinions,
patient and cautious in judging others.--Ed.

***

A CASE OF CONSCIENCE RESOLVED; VIZ.,

WHETHER, WHERE A CHURCH OF CHRIST IS SITUATE, IT IS THE DUTY OF THE WOMEN OF THAT CONGREGATION,
ORDINARILY, AND BY APPOINTMENT, TO SEPARATE THEMSELVES FROM THEIR BRETHREN, AND SO TO ASSEMBLE
TOGETHER, TO PERFORM SOME PARTS OF DIVINE WORSHIP, AS PRAYER, ETC., WITHOUT THEIR MEN?

AND THE ARGUMENTS MADE USE OF FOR THAT PRACTICE, EXAMINED.

BY JOHN BUNYAN.

EDITOR'S ADVERTISEMENT.

This exceedingly rare tract was first published in 1683, and was not reprinted, either separately,
or in any edition of Bunyan's works. The public are indebted to the owner of a copy in perfect
preservation, who kindly lent it, with a painful prohibition that he is to remain unknown;
but with full allowance to any one who wishes to collate it with this new edition, by applying
to the editor.

At the time this case was drawn and submitted to Mr. Bunyan for his opinion, he was one of
the most popular preachers in the kingdom, and universally esteemed in all the churches of
Christ, for his profound knowledge of the sacred Scriptures. This may account for such a case
being sent to him, in preference to those illustrious divines, who for learning and talent
have been unrivalled in any age.

The Reformation had progressed through state impediments so slowly, that the masses of the
people were involved in the grossest darkness. So Mr. Keach complained--"The church is but
newly come out of the wilderness of popish darkness; and not so fully neither as to be as clear
as the sun; as in due time she shall."[1]The era of the commonwealth let loose a flood of religious
light and liberty: those who had just emerged from the darkness of Popery, and those who had
received, implicitly, and without investigation, their religion from the formal services of
the Liturgy, were now alarmed with the thunder of faithful exhortations, personally and prayerfully
to examine the sacred Scriptures, upon pain of everlasting death. A light so new, and so marvellous,
dazzled and perplexed those who rushed into it, without earnest prayer for divine guidance.
They were like men who had been born and brought up in a dark, a deep, a noisome mine, when,
suddenly emerging into light, are overpowered by its splendour. Long and sharp was the controversy
whether singing ought to be used in public worship; whether the seventh day of the week or
the first was to be consecrated; whether ministers were to be paid for their services; and
in this case, to define the privileges and duties of women as helpers in the gospel; and it
is surprising that this question is almost as new now as it was then. It is thus stated--"Whether
it is the duty of the women of the churches of Christ to separate themselves from their brethren,
and, as so separate, to perform divine worship by themselves."

It appears that some females in Bedford were in the habit of thus meeting, under the advice
of a Mr. K. They held prayer meetings for special purposes, at the imminent risk of imprisonment;
but whether, in these meetings, they exhorted, or preached to each other, does not appear.
John Bunyan was applied to for advice, which he plainly gives. He was a stern advocate for
scriptural authority in all things pertaining to divine worship; and one who, in regarding
the invaluable virtues of women, most admired retiring modesty as the loveliest adornment of
the female character. The terms he uses, and the spirit in which he writes, intimate plainly
that his own wife, who was remarkable for her devotion to God and her affectionate attachment
to her husband, was also the most obedient of her sex.

In this tract we find no unmeaning gallant fribbling, but the solemn language of one who had
death and judgment before his face. He conducts the inquiry with great care, as becomes a subject
of such universal interest: and the great majority of Christians remain to this day his disciples.
The Society of Friends is an exception, as to females being admitted to the ministry; while
the Wesleyan Methodists have gained a most beneficial influence, by embracing, to the full
extent, Bunyan's notions of rendering available the tender zeal, in comparatively private labours,
of their pious females, in spreading the hallowed influences of Christianity.

The Society of Friends stands upon high ground in justifying its practice in allowing females
to minister in holy things. J. J. Gurney says--"Friends believe it right, freely and equally
to allow the ministry of both sexes." His reason is--"That all true ministry is under the immediate
spirit of the influence of Christ: therefore we are bound to make way for the exercise of the
gift of all persons that the Spirit may direct into this service. We dare not say to the modest
and pious female, 'Thou shalt not declare the word of the Lord,' when we believe that an infinitely
higher authority has issued a directly opposite injunction."[2]

The difference arises as to the more public work of the ministry in proclaiming or preaching
the kingdom of Christ to the world. In the ordinary ministry, by teaching the young--by a godly
conversation--by visiting and praying with the sick and afflicted--by encouraging the inquirers
and directing their way to the kingdom of heaven,--in these important duties there appears
to be neither male nor female in Christ Jesus--all are equal.

John Bunyan would have united to a great degree with John Gurney in these sentiments. But as
our Lord appointed no female evangelists, or apostles, or missionaries; and as the Holy Ghost
has directed, that all bishops or elders should be married MEN, it would appear a strange innovation
to place a female in the pastoral office. Bunyan believed that God usually commissions men
and not women to this important work. J. J. Gurney fully admits that women "are forbidden to
usurp authority over the man," and therefore no active part is assigned to them in public assemblies
for the settlement of the affairs of the church. [3] The women's meetings were established
for the purpose of exercising a wholesome care over their own sex. [4] "That faithful women
should be helps to the men in the service of truth, as they are outwardly in civil and temporal
things." [5] And to this who can refuse his hearty AMEN.

There is too much sectarian spirit in all our controversies. Reader, in considering this subject,
endeavour to forget for the time those opinions in which you have been trained. G. OFFOR. THE
EPISTLE DEDICATORY TO THOSE GODLY WOMEN CONCERNED IN THE FOLLOWING TREATISE.

HONOURED SISTERS,

'Tis far from me to despise you, or to do anything to your reproach. I know you are beloved
of God for the sake of Christ, and that you stand fixed for ever by faith upon the same foundation
with US. I also know that the Lord doth put no difference betwixt male and female, as to the
communications of his saving graces, but hath often made many of your sex eminent for piety;
yea, there hath been of you, I speak now of ordinary Christians, that for holiness of life
have outgone many of the brethren: Nor can their virtuous lives but be renown and glory to
YOU, and conviction to those of US that have come behind you in faith and holiness. The love
of women in spirituals, as well as naturals, ofttimes outgoes that of men.

When Christ was upon earth, we read not that any man did to, and for him, as did the woman
that was a sinner, Joanna, Susanna, and many others (Luke 7:36-38, 8:1-3). And as they have
shewed themselves eminent for piety, so for Christian valour and fortitude of mind, when called
of God to bear witness to, and for his name in the world: as all histories of that nature doth
sufficiently testify. They were WOMEN, as I take it as well as men, that were tortured, and
that would not accept of deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection (Heb 11:35).
Wherefore I honour and praise your eminency in virtue; and desire to be provoked by the exceeding
piety of any of you, in all holy conversation and godliness.

And although, as you will find, I have not without a cause, made a question of the lawfulness
of your assembling together, by yourselves, to perform, without your men, solemn worship to
God: yet I dare not make you yourselves the authors of your own miscarriage in this. I do therefore
rather impute it to our leaders, who whether of a fond respect to some seeming abilities they
think is in you for this, or from a persuasion that you have been better than themselves in
other things; or whether from a preposterous zeal, they have put you upon a work so much too
heavy for you: I shall not at this time concern myself to inquire into. But this is certain,
at least it is so in my apprehension, that in this matter you are tempted by them to take too
much upon you.

I am not insensible but that for my thus writing, though I thereby have designed your honour
and good order; I am like enough to run the gauntlet among you, and to partake most smartly
of the scourge of the tongues of some, and to be soundly brow-beaten for it by others: specially
by our author, who will find himself immediately concerned, for that I have blamed him for
what he hath irregularly done, both with the Word, to you, and me. I look also to be sufficiently
scandalized, and counted a man not for prayer, and meetings for prayer, and the like; but I
will labour to bear them with patience, and seek their good that shall be tempted to abuse me.

I had not, indeed I had not, spoke a word to this question in this manner, had not Mr. K. sent
his paper abroad, and amongst us, for the encouraging this practice with us, in opposition
to our peace. I do not say he designed our breach, but his arguments tended thereto; and had
not our people been of a wise and quiet temper, his paper might have set us into a flame. But
thanks be to God, we are at quiet, and walk in love, notwithstanding the LIFTS that have been
to make us do otherwise. There are also the mouths of some opened against me for this, who
lie at wait for occasions, and shew that they are glad to take them before they are given by
me: to whom I now shew by this ensuing discourse, that I had a reason to do what I did. And
remain, your faithful friend and brother to pray for you, to love you in the gospel, and to
do you what Christian service I can,

JOHN BUNYAN.

The Women's Prayer Meeting A CASE OF CONSCIENCE RESOLVED, &c.

The occasion of my meddling in this manner with this controversy, is this. After I had, for
reasons best known to myself, by searching found, that those called the women's meetings wanted
for their support, a bottom in the word: I called them in our fellowship into question. Now
having so done, my reasons for so doing, as was but reason, were demanded; and I gave them,
to the causing of that practice with us to cease. So subject to the word were our women, and
so willing to let go what by that could not be proved a duty for them to be found in the practice
of. But when I had so done, by what means I know not, Mr. K., hearing of my proceeding in this
matter, though I think he knew little of question or answer, sets pen to paper, and draws up
four arguments for the justification of these meetings. The which, when done, were sent down
into our parts; not to me, but to some of his own persuasion, who kept them, or sent them,
or lent them whither they thought good: And so about two years after, with this note immediately
following, they were conveyed to my hand.

Bro: Bunyan, This enclosed, was sent to me from godly women, whose custom for a long time hath
been to meet together to pray: who hearing of your contrary opinion, sent this. It came from
Mr. K., who would desire to know what objections you have against it: and he is ready to give
his further advice. Pray be pleased to give your answer in writing, for Mr. K. expects it.

Your friends in the Lord, S. B. S. F. Pray be pleased to leave your answer with S. F. [6]in
Bedford.

Now having received the papers, and considering the contents thereof: I was at first at a question
with myself, whether the thing was feigned, or true; and to that purpose, writ to these women
again: but calling to mind, that I had heard something of this before, I concluded there was
ground to believe, as I do, [that it was true, and not feigned:] And so resolved to answer
his demand and expectation. But to say nothing more as to this, I will next present you with
the arguments he sent, and then with my manner of handling of them. Mr. K.'s Arguments for
Female Prayer Meetings.

He begins with this question, Whether women fearing God may meet to pray together, and whether
it be lawful for them so to do? Which done, he falls to a wonderment, saying, It seems very
strange to me, that any who profess the fear of God, can make any question touching the lawfulness
thereof: The rule for praying being so general to all, and there being so many instances for
the practice thereof, upon several occasions in the word of God, for their encouragement therein.

He next presents us with his arguments, which are in number four, but in verity not one, to
prove that thing for the which he urgeth them: as I hope to make appear by that I have done.

First, saith he, If women may praise God together for mercies received for the church of God,
or for themselves? then they may pray together: The proof whereof is plain (Exo 15:20,21).
If it be objected the case was extraordinary, and that Miriam was a prophetess; To which I
answer, That the danger of ruin and destruction, and our deliverance from it, if the Lord grant
it, cannot be looked at but as extraordinary. The designs of ruin to the church, and servants
of God, being as great as at that time when God delivered his people from the hand of Pharaoh.
[7] And will call for praises, if the Lord please to send it, as then. And whereas it is further
objected, that Miriam was an extraordinary person. To which I answer, That the duty itself
of praising God for the mercy, was incumbent upon all, in as much as they were partakers of
the mercy. And the same spirit of Christ that was in her, is also in all his servants: given
for the same end, both to pray for mercies we stand in need of, and to praise God for [them].

Second, If women have in imminent danger to themselves and the church of God, prayed jointly
together for deliverance, and God hath answered and approved of the same: then may women jointly
pray together. The instance we have is famous (Esth 4:16). We there see she and her maidens
did pray and fast together, and the Lord gave a gracious answer and deliverance.

Third, If God hath in gospel times promised the pouring out of his Spirit to women, to that
very end that they may pray together apart from men; then it is not only their liberty, but
duty to meet and pray together. But God hath promised his Spirit to that end (Zech 12:10-13).
Which Scripture is plain is a promise of gospel times. And it is to be noted that the text
doth not in the singular number, say He shall pray apart, and his wife apart; but THEY shall
pray apart, and THEIR wives apart. And (Mal 3:16) God takes notice of all them that speak often
together, and call upon his name.

Fourth, If God hath so approved of women's meeting together to pray in gospel times, as then,
and at that time to take an advantage to make known to them his mind and will concerning Jesus
Christ: then it is lawful for women to pray together. But God hath so approved of their meeting
to pray together (Acts 16:13). By which text it appeareth it was a frequent practice for women
to meet and pray together.

These are Mr. K.'s arguments; the conclusion of his paper follows. And besides all these particular
instances, says he, what means those general rules to build up one another in our most holy
faith, and pray in the Holy Ghost (Jude 20). But it extends to all that believe, both men and
women; unless any will say women are not to be built up in their most holy faith. Therefore
let not any hinder you from a duty so incumbent upon you in a special manner, in such a day
as this is. Cannot many women that have used this practice, by experience, say, they have met
with the Lord in it, and have found many blessed returns of prayer from God, both to themselves
and the church, wherein God hath owned them? Therefore what God hath borne witness to, and
approved of, let no man deter you from. Pray turn to the Scriptures quoted, which I hope will
give you full satisfaction. Mr. Bunyan's Answer.

These are his arguments, and this his conclusion, in which I cannot but say, there is not only
boldness, but flattery. Boldness, in fathering of his misunderstanding upon the authority of
the word of God: and flattery, in soothing up persons in a way of their own, by making of them
the judges in their own cause: the which I hope to make farther appear anon.

For since his women in their letter told me that Mr. K. expects my answer, I count myself called
to shew the unsoundness of his opinion. Indeed he would, as they insinuate, confine me to answer
by writing. But his papers have been I know not where, and how to put check to his extravagancies,
that also, I know not, but by scattering mine [answer] abroad. And as I will not be confined
to an answer in writing: so neither to his methods of argumentation. What scholar he is, I
know not; for my part, I am not ashamed to confess, that I neither know the mode nor figure
of a syllogism, nor scarce which is major or minor. Methinks I perceive but little sense, and
far less truth in his arguments: also I hold that he has stretched and strained the holy Word
out of place, to make it, if it might have been, to shore up his fond conceits. I shall therefore,
first take these texts from the errors to which he hath joined them, and then fall to picking
the bones of his syllogisms. [8]

But as I shall not confine myself to his mode and way of arguing, so neither shall I take notice
of his question upon which he stateth the matter in controversy.

This was our question, this we debated, and this Mr. K. might have sent for, and have spoken
to, since he will needs be a confuter. And, courteous reader, since I have here presented thee
with the question, I will also present thee with the method which I took when I handled it
among my brethren.

First, I opened the terms of the question.

Second, Then shewed what assemblies they were that used to perform divine worship to God.

Third, And so shewed whose prayers in such worship was used, or by Paul and others desired.

First, By church of Christ, I mean, one gathered or constituted by, and walking after the rule
of the Word of God. By situate, I mean, where such church shall happen to be, in whole, or
in the parts thereof. By separating, I mean, their meetings together by appointment of their
own, and as so met, to attempt to perform divine worship [by] prayer without their men.

Second, To shew what manner of assemblies they were that used to perform divine worship to
God of old. Now I find that there have been three sorts of assemblies, in which divine worship
has been performed.

1. It has been performed in mixed assemblies; in assemblies made up of saints and sinners.
I say divine worship has been performed in such assemblies, for, that there, the saints have
been edified, sinners convinced and converted, and made to confess their sins, to the glory
of God. Of these assemblies we read (Matt 5:1, 13:1, 23:1; Mark 4:1, 2:1, 6:2, 10:1; Luke 5:1,
8, 12:1, 13:1, 15:1, 20:1; 1 Cor 14:23). And in many other scriptures.

2. I also find that the church, by herself, or as distinct from the world, have met together
to perform it by themselves (Mark 4:34; Acts 2:1-4, 13:1,2; 15:4, 20:7; John 20:19-26).

3. I find also that assemblies for divine worship have been made up of the elders, and principal
brethren of the church, none of the rest of the congregation being present (Matt 10:1; Luke
9:1; Acts 1:3, 2:17,18; Gal 2:1,2) with several other scriptures beside. But in all the Scripture,
I find not that the women of the churches of Christ, did use to separate themselves from their
brethren, and as so separate, perform worship together among themselves, or in that their congregation:
or that they made, by allowance of the Word, appointment so to do. Thus far therefore this
must stand for a human invention, and Mr. K. for the promoter thereof.

Third, This done, in the third place, I come to shew you whose prayers, or by whose mouth prayer
in such assemblies, as are above proved lawful, used to be made, or by Paul or others were desired.

1. Whose prayers were used, or who was the mouth? and I find them called the prayers of the
church in general, or of the principal men thereof in particular (Judg 2:4,5, 20:8,26; Joel
1:14, 2:15-17; Acts 12:5, 13:1-3).

2. Also when Paul, or others, desired that prayers should be made of others for them. They
either desired the prayers of the church in general, or of the brethren in particular (but
never desireth, or biddeth a woman's meeting, that prayers might there be made for them). (1.)
He desireth the prayers of the church in general (Col 4:2; Phil 1:19, 4:6; 1 Thess 5:17; Heb
13:18). (2.) Or if he desireth prayers of certain persons, he only calls upon the men and brethren
in particular; but never upon a woman by name nor sex to do it (1 Thess 5:25; 2 Thess 3:1;
Rom 15:30; 1 Tim 2:8). Nor was, as I said, the apostle alone in this thing. Christ speaks a
parable to this end, that MEN ought always to pray (Luke 18:1). James saith, the effectual
fervent prayer of a righteous MAN (5:16). Moses sent the young men to sacrifice (Exo 24:5).
And the people in the time of Zacharias, sent their MEN to pray before the Lord (Zech 7:2).
I do not believe that by any of these the prayers of women are despised, but by these we are
taught, who, as the mouth in assemblies to pray, is commended unto us.

One word more, The women in the time of Jeremiah the prophet, when they had made their cakes
to the queen of heaven, (though the thing which they did was as right in their own eyes, as
if they had done true worship indeed) and was questioned by the prophet for what they had done,
could not justify what they had done as to the act, but by pleading, They did it not "without
their men" (Jer 44:17-19).

This was our question, and this I will now give a negative answer unto. For I find not in Christ's
testament any command so to do; no nor yet example: and where there is none of these, it cannot
be a duty upon them; no, nor yet liberty, but presumption to attempt it.

The command, says Mr. K., is general to all. But I answer, yet limited, and confined to order
and manner of performance. Women may, yea ought to pray; what then? Is it their duty to help
to carry on prayer in public assemblies with men, as they? Are they to be the audible mouth
there, before all, to God? No verily, and yet the command is general to all to pray. Women
of the respective churches of Christ, have no command to separate themselves from the men of
their congregations, to perform prayer in their own company without them, and yet the command
is general to all to pray. We must therefore distinguish of [between] persons and performances,
though we may not exclude either. The manner also, and order in which such and such duties
must be done, Mr. K. knows is as essential, in some cases, as the very matter of worship. But
we will come to my reasons for my dissenting from Mr. K. in this. After which I will consider
his arguments, and the scriptures that he would under-prop them with. As for my reasons for
my dissenting from him, they are these:--

First, To appoint meetings for divine worship, either in the whole church or in the parts of
it, is an act of power: which power, resideth in the elders in particular, or in the church
in general. But never in the women as considered by themselves. Mr. K. indeed doth insinuate
that this power also resided in them; for he saith, God hath in gospel times promised the Spirit
to women to that very end, that they may pray together, apart from men. Now if the Spirit is
given them to THIS very end, that they may do it apart from men, then they have a power residing
in themselves to call their own sex together to do it. And what brave doings will such a conclusion
make, even the blind himself will perceive. But further of this anon; meanwhile we will attend
[to] our own assertion. Namely, "that to call the church, or parts thereof together, to perform
divine worship to God, is an ACT of POWER, which power resideth in the church in general, or
in the elders in particular." We will treat of the last first.

1. For the eldership, Moses and Aaron of old were they, with the priests, that were to call
the church together to perform divine worship to God, and that both as to the whole, or as
to the parts of it (Num 10:7,8; Deut 4:14, 31:11,12; Exo 4:29, 12:21, 17:5). Also, in after
times, they were the elders and chief of the church, that did it (Josh 24:1; Ezra 10:5-9; Acts
14:27, 15:3). Or,

2, if their calling together to perform divine worship, was not by the elders alone: yet it
was by the power that resided in the church for that thing, who jointly ordered the same (Judg
20:8,18: Ezra 3:1; Zeph 2:1-3; Acts 12:12; 1 Cor 5:4, 11:20). All these are plain cases. But
never, as I ever did read of in the Bible, did women, ordinary believing ones, assume this
power of the elders, or of the church, to themselves.

If it be asked, Who did appoint that meeting made mention of in Acts 12:12?

I answer, It was appointed by the power of the church, who, for her own conveniency, if she
cannot come all into one place at once to perform the duty, as it is not likely four or five
thousand should, in times of persecution, which was their case, [they] may meet some here,
some there, for their edification and comfort. Compare verse 5 with 12 and 17. Nor do I question
the lawfulness of this or that part of the church's assembling together for prayer: though
the elders, and greatest part of the brethren, be absent. If, first, such MEN that call such
assemblies are countenanced by the elders, or church, to do it (1 Tim 2:8; 2 Tim 2:22). But
that the sisters of this or that church, may call their own sex together to perform such worship
by themselves to God (for this is the thing in debate) I find no warrant for.

Second, Because this kind of worship, when done in and by a company, is MINISTERIAL to that
company, as well as petitionary to God. That is, they that, as the mouth in assemblies pray
to God, teach that assembly, as well as beg mercies of him. And I find not that women may assemble
to do thus. That such prayer is a kind of ministering in the word to standers by, consider
well 1 Corinthians 14:15-19. Wherefore let them keep silence in the church, and in the parts
thereof, when assembled to worship God.

In all public worship by prayer, teaching is set on foot, two ways: 1. By propounding to that
assembly the things that must, by agreement, be prayed for. 2. And by proving them to suit
with the will of God, that prayer may be made in faith (1 John 5:14).

1. For all such prayer must be made for the things agreed upon first; and consequently for
things that by the word are proved good, and suitable for the seasons, persons, or things,
for or about which such prayers are made. For they that have meetings for prayer, without this,
pray at random, and not by rule.

"If two of you shall agree on earth, as touching anything that they shall ask [according to
God's will] it shall be done for them," saith Christ, "of my Father which is in heaven" (Matt
18:19). Now, I say, if things prayed for in assemblies must first be jointly agreed upon, then
must such things, by some one, or more of that assembly, be first propounded, expounded, and
proved to be good by the word. Good for such persons, seasons, or things, for which such prayer
is made. And, besides, the gifts required to do this, if this is not teaching I am out. And
yet this must first be done to instruct all present, to help their faith, and to quicken their
spirits to, and in that worship. That they may as one man have their eyes unto the Lord (Zech
9:1). But that this power is given to women, to ordinary believing ones that are in the highest
account in churches, I do not believe. I do not believe they should minister to God in prayer
before the whole church, for then I should be a Ranter or a Quaker; nor do I believe they should
do it in their own womanish assembly, for the reason urged before. And I will add, if brethren
not heretofore called by the church to open scriptures, or to speak in the church to God in
prayer, [9] are not at first to be admitted to do this, but before the elders or principal
brethren, that they may hear and judge (1 Cor 14:26-29). How can it be thought to be meet or
lawful for women, of whom it must be supposed, that they have received no such gifts, that
they should use this power? I say, how can it be imagined that the women should be bound of
God to do this in such sort as doth utterly exclude the elders and all the men in the congregation
from a possibility of understanding and of judging of what they do? And yet this is the doctrine
of Mr. K.; for he saith, "That the Spirit of God is promised to women to this very end, that
they may pray together, apart from men." But God is not the author of this confusion in the
churches.

2. But secondly, As teaching by prayer in assemblies, is thus set on foot; so every one also
that shall in such meetings be the mouth of the whole, to God, ministereth so, doctrine to
that assembly, as well as presenteth petitions to God. Else how can that assembly say AMEN
at their prayer or giving of thanks? For to say AMEN is an effect of conviction, or of edification
received of the stander by, from him that now is so ministering in that assembly before God
(1 Cor 14:15-17). Yea, I believe that they that pray in assemblies, or that shall give thanks
for mercies received there, ought to labour to speak, not only with fervency of words, but
with such soundness of doctrine while they mention, urge, or plead the promise with God, that
that whole assembly may be enlightened, taught, taken, and carried away in their spirits, on
the wing of that prayer, and of faith, to God, whose face they are come to seek, and whose
grace they are gathered together to beg. Now this is called praying and praising, to the teaching
and edifying of others, as by the scripture afore named is made appear (1 Cor 14:14-19). But
by what word of God the sisters of the respective churches may set up this way of teaching
of one another in their assemblies, I am ignorant of.

Third, The Holy Ghost doth particularly insist upon the inability of women, as to their well
managing of the worship now under consideration, and therefore it ought not to be presumed
upon by them. They are forbidden to teach, yea to speak in the church of God. And why forbidden,
but because of their inability. They cannot orderly manage that worship to God, that in assemblies
is to be performed before him; I speak now of our ordinary believing ones, and I know none
extraordinary among the churches. They are not builded to manage such worship, "they are not
the image and glory of God, as the men are" (1 Cor 11:7). They are placed beneath, and are
called the glory of the man. Wherefore they are weak, and not permitted to perform public worship
to God. When our first mother, who was not attended with those weaknesses, either sinful or
natural, as our women now are, stept out of her place but to speak a good word for worship,
you see how she was baffled, and befooled therein; she utterly failed in the performance, though
she briskly attempted the thing. Yea she so failed thereabout, that at one clap she overthrew,
not only, as to that, the reputation of women for ever, but her soul, her husband, and the
whole world besides (Gen 3:1-7). The fallen angel knew what he did when he made his assault
upon the woman. His subtilty told him that the women was the weaker vessel. He knew also that
the man was made the head in worship, and the keeper of the garden of God. The Lord God took
the man, said unto the man, commanded the man, and made him keeper of the garden (Gen 2:15-17).
Wherefore the management of worship belonged to him. This, the serpent, as I said, was aware
of. And therefore he comes to the woman, says to the woman, and deals with the woman about
it, and so overcomes the world. Wherefore it is from this consideration that Paul tells Timothy
that he permitted not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.
But to call the church or parts thereof together, to perform solemn worship, and in such a
call to exclude or shut out the men, is an usurping of that authority over them to a high degree.
And he renders the reason of this his prohibition thus, "For Adam was first formed, then Eve,
[and therefore had the headship in worship]. But again, it should seem, methinks, if women
must needs be managers of worship in assemblies, they should do it, as Eve, before Adam, in
presence of the men: But that I think none will allow, though that would be the way best to
correct miscarriages; how then should it be thought convenient for them to do it alone. If
children are not thought fit to help to guide the ship with the mariners, shall they be trusted
so much as with a boat at sea alone. The thing in hand is a parallel case.

Fourth, If the weightiness of this worship be, as indeed it is, so great, that the strongest
and best able to perform it do usually come off with blushing, and with repentance for their
shortness, as to the well performance thereof; though they engage therein by good and lawful
authority; what will they do who are much weaker here, and when, as Eve, they set to it in
a way of usurping of authority, and of their own head and will. To offer strange fire with
incense, which was a type of prayer, you know what it cost Nadab and Abihu, though men, and
the sons of Aaron. [Yet] Mr. K. cries the sisters, the women, the women's meetings, and the
like, and how they have prevailed with heaven. Poor man, I am sorry for his weakness, and that
he should show that himself is so nunnish[10] in such a day as this.

But to return, as all worship in assemblies ought to be performed with the most exact order
and solemnity; so this of prayer with that, if possible, that is more than all the rest; and
therefore this makes it more heavy still. When men preach they have to do with men, but when
they pray in assemblies they have to do both with men and with God at once. And I say, if it
be so great a matter to speak to men before God; how great a matter is it to speak to men and
God at once; to God by way of petition, and to men by way of instruction. But I am persuaded
if those most fond of the women's meetings for prayer were to petition the king for their lives,
they would not set women to be their advocates to him; specially if the king should declare
beforehand by law, that he permitted not a woman in an open auditory to speak before him.

There are also many temptations that attend the duty of praying in assemblies, especially those
that are immediately employed therein. These temptations, they awake, are aware of, are forced
to wrestle with, and greatly to groan under. Wherefore we put not the weak upon this service;
not the weak, though they be men; not they in the presence of the strong. How then should the
weakest of all be put upon it, and that when together by themselves. Men, though strong, and
though acting by lawful authority in this, are not able, but with unutterable groans, to do
it: how then shall all those that attempt it without that authority, perform it as acceptable
worship to God? This work, therefore, is as much too heavy for our women now, as that about
which Eve engaged in at first, was too heavy for her. But,

Fifth, If this worship may be managed by the sisterhood of the churches, being congregated
together in the absence of their men: of what signification is it that man is made head of
the woman as well in worship as in nature? (1 Cor 11:3,7). Yea more, why are the elders of
the churches called watchmen, overseers, guides, teachers, rulers, and the like? If this kind
of worship may be performed, without their conduct and government? (Eze 3:17, 33:7; Acts 20:28;
Eph 4:11; Psa 28:72; Heb 13:17).

1. Why is man made the head of the woman in worship, in the worship now under debate, in that
worship that is to be performed in assemblies? And why are the women commanded silence there,
if they may congregate by themselves, and set up and manage worship there? Worship was ordained
before the woman was made, wherefore the word of God at the first did not immediately come
to her, but to him that was first formed, and made the head in worship (Gen 2:16-18; 1 Cor
14:35,36). And hence it is that women are so strictly tied up to this headship; that if they
will learn, they must ask their husbands at home (v 35), not appoint meetings of their own
sex to teach one another. "But what must they do that have unbelieving ones? and what must
they do that have none?" Answer, Let them attend upon those ordinances that God has appointed
for the building up and perfecting of the body of Christ (Eph 4:11-13), and learn as the angels
do (Eph 3:10; 1 Peer 1:12).

2. But I say, if they must do as Mr. K. says, they are in duty bound, to wit, meet by themselves
apart from their men, and as so met, perform this most solemn worship to God: how shall the
elders and overseers, the watchmen, rulers, and guides in worship, perform their duty to God,
and to the church of God, in this, since from this kind of worship they are quite excluded,
and utterly shut out of doors: unless it be said, that to watch, to oversee, and to guide,
in the matter and manner of performance of this worship in assemblies, is no part of the watchman
or overseer's work; or in their lawful absence, the work of the principal men of the church.
Nor will the faithful and dutiful overseer leave worship, no, not in the best part of the congregation
assembled to worship, to be performed by every weak brother, though I believe it might with
more warrant be left to them, than to the strongest among our ordinary ones of the other sex.

Also our elders and watchmen covet, if we have unbelievers to behold, that our worship be performed
by the most able. How then shall it be thought that they should be so silly, to turn a company
of weak women loose to be abused by the fallen angels? Can it be thought that their congregation,
since they have it without a command, shall fare better among those envious spirits than those
that are lawfully called shall fare before the world? Watchman, watchman, see to thy duty,
look well to the manner of worship that is to be performed according to thy commission. Trust
not Eve, as Adam did, with worship, and with its defence. Look that all things be done in worship
as becomes thee--a head, both in nature and by office--and leave not so solemn a part of worship
as prayer, in company, is, and ought to be accounted to be done; thou canst by no means tell
how. Watch in and over all such worship thyself. Be diligent to know the state of thy flocks,
whether they be flocks of men, or women; and look well to thy herds, and thou shalt have milk
enough, not only for men and babes, but also for the maintenance and life of thy maidens. So
that they need not go with their pitchers to seek water there where their God has not sent
them (Prov 27:23-27). Besides the shepherds' tents is provision sufficient for them (Cant 1:8).
But, for a conclusion of this, I will ask this man, If he doth not, by pleading for these women's
meetings, declare, that the women, without their men, are better able by themselves to maintain
divine worship, than the men are without their elders? forasmuch as he himself will not allow
that the men should always perform worship without his oversight and inspection, and yet will
plead for the women to have such worship in their congregation, among themselves, excluding
for ever the men therefrom. For, saith he, the Spirit is promised to be given to them to that
very end, that they may meet together to pray apart without their men.

And now for Mr. K.'s arguments, which, as I said, are in number four.

1. We will take the scriptures from them; and,

2. Then pick the bones of their carcasses.

Yet in my taking of the scriptures from his arguments, I will do it in a way that is most to
his advantage, making of each of them as formidable an objection as I can against myself.

Objection.

Miriam took a timbrel in her hand, and went out, and all the women went out after her, praising
God with timbrels and dances for their deliverances. Therefore the women of the churches of
Christ may appoint meetings of their own, as separate from their brethren, and then and there
perform divine worship, [by] prayer, in that, their congregation, without their men (Exo 15:20,21).
Answer

1. Miriam was a prophetess: and, I suppose, that none of our women will pretend to be such.
And though Mr. K. labours to get over this, by saying that the work of praising was incumbent
upon all: yet by his leave, judgment, and discretion, and a spirit of conduct suitable to the
duty, as we read of, was found among the women in none but she. Why is it else said, Miriam
led them forth; Miriam the prophetess did it. Another, by Mr. K.'s argument, might have done
it as well. Thus degrades he the prophetess, that he may get favour with the ordinary women,
and prompt them on to a work that he has a superstitious affection for.

2. But his assertion is of no weight. The women were not left in that extraordinary service
to the spirit of ordinary believers. Nor can I count it but crooked dealing to bring in extraordinary
persons, in their extraordinary acts, to prove it lawful for ordinary persons to do that which
is not commanded them.

3. But though Miriam did go forth, or come out with the women, yet not from the men, into some
remote place in the wilderness to worship by themselves. She rather went or came out, and the
women followed her from the place by the sea, where now they were, after Moses, to sing as
her sex became her; for she, though an extraordinary woman, might not make herself an equal
with Moses and Aaron, therefore she came behind in worship, yet with the body of the people,
as it is said, "So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea" (Exo 15:22). Women, though prophetesses,
must wear some badge or other of inferiority to those that are prophets indeed (1 Cor 11:3-9).
And I choose to understand that Miriam did this. (1.) Because the text last mentioned says
so. (2.) Because Miriam, and all the women, did sing with the words of the men, verse 1 compared
with 21. (3.) For that they did sing them after the men, as taking them from their mouth. For,
saith the text, Miriam answered them, and so handed it down to them of her sex, saying, "Sing
ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously" (vv 1,21). (4.) For that she commanded the
women that they should sing the same song: hence it is called the song of Moses, not of Miriam
(Rev 15:3). (5.) From all which I conclude, that Miriam did not draw the women away into some
such place where neither Moses, nor Aaron, nor the elders of Israel could see, behold, and
observe their manner of worship. But that she, as her modesty became her, did lead them out
from that place where they were, to sing, and to dance, and to praise God, after the men.

Objection.

Esther, the queen, performed, with her maidens, this duty of prayer, without their men: therefore
the women of gospel churches may separate themselves from their brethren, and perform it among
themselves (Esth 4:16).

Answer.

1. Esther was in the house of the king's chamberlain, and could not at this time come to her
brethren; No, not to her uncle, Mordecai, to consult how to prevent an approaching judgment.
Yea, Mordecai and she were fain to speak one to another by Hatach, whom the king had appointed
to attend upon the queen (vv 5-9). So she could by no means, at that time, have communion with
the church. No marvel, therefore, if she fasted with her maidens alone: for so she must now
do, or not do it at all. But I will here ask this, our argumentator, whether Esther did count
it a burden or a privilege thus now to be separated form her brethren, and so forced to perform
this work as she did? If a privilege, let him prove it. If a burden, he has little cause to
make use of it to urge that, her practice then, for a ground to women that are at liberty,
to separate from their brethren to perform such worship by themselves in their company, without
their men.

2. We do not read that she desired that any of the women that were at liberty should come from
the men to be with her; whence we may gather, that she preferred their liberty to worship with
men, far beyond a woman's meeting. She counted that too many, by herself and her maidens, were
in such bondage already.

3. Neither did she attempt to take that unavoidable work upon herself, but as begging of the
men that she might, by their faith and prayers, be borne up therein; clearly concluding that
she did count such work too hard for women to perform by themselves, without the help of men
(vv 15,16).

4. Besides this woman's meeting, as Mr. K. would have it, was made up of none but the queen
and her household maids, and with but few of them; nor will we complain of our honest women
when the case is so that they cannot go out to the church to do this, if they pray with their
maids at home.

5. But what if Esther did pray with her maids in her closet, because she could not come out
to her brethren. Is it fair to make the necessity of a woman in bondage a law to women at liberty?
This argument, therefore, is erroneous, and must not have this text to show it up; we therefore
take it away from his words and proceed to a sight of his next.

Objection.

But it is said by the prophet Zecharias, that the Spirit is promised to be given, in New Testament
times, to women, that they may pray together apart from men (Zech 12:11-13).

Answer. The text says nothing so, but is greatly abused by this man. Indeed, it says their
wives shall mourn apart, but it saith not, they shall do so together. Yea, that they shall
separate themselves by the dictate of God, from their brethren, to do so, is that which this
text knows nothing of. Sometimes many may be together, apart from others; but why Mr. K., to
serve his purpose, should rack and strain this text to justify his woman's meeting, I see no
reason at all. My reason against him is, for that the look here upon him whom we have pierced,
which is to be the cause of this mourning, is to be by an immediate revelation of the Holy
Ghost, who doth not use to tell before hand when he will so come down upon us. But such a meeting
as Mr. K. intends must be the product of consultation and time. "I will pour," saith God, "upon
the house of David--the spirit of grace and of supplications: and then they shall look"; that
is, when that spirit so worketh with them as to enable them so to do. Now, I say, I would know,
since this mourning is to be the effect of this look, and so before one is aware (Cant 6:12),
whether Mr. K. can prove that these women were to have an item beforehand, when they should
have this look. But as it would be ridiculous thus to conclude, so as ridiculous is it to think
to prove his women's meetings from hence.

Nor doth the conclusion that he hath made hereupon prove more but that he is ignorant of the
work of the Spirit in this matter, or that his fondness for the women's meetings hath made
him forget his own experience. For how can one that never had but one such look upon Jesus
Christ, draw such a conclusion from hence. And that all those women should have this look at
the same time, even all the women of the house of David and of the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
that they might, all of them, by the direction of the Holy Ghost, separate themselves from
their men to hold a woman's meeting or meetings by themselves for this, is more fictitious
than one would imagine a man should dream. If he says that the women have a promise to have
this look when they please, or that they are sure to have it because it is entailed to THEIR
meeting, for this seems to come nearest his conclusion: yet what unavoidable inconveniences
will flow therefrom, I leave to any to judge. But I take this mourning to be according as another
of the prophets says, "They shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them
mourning, every one for his iniquity" (Eze 7:16). All those souls, therefore, that shall be
counted worthy to have this look shall mourn apart, or by themselves, when they have it. For
though a man cannot appoint to himself when he will repent of his sins, or when the Holy Ghost
will work, yet he shall repent indeed; he shall do it, I say, when HE doth so work, not staying
till another can do so too. And since our own iniquity will then make us best consider our
own case, mourning apart, or every one for their own iniquity, is most naturally proper thereto.
And this is the mourning that shall be in the house of David, Jerusalem, the church, both with
men and women, at all times when the Holy Ghost shall help us to look upon him whom we have
pierced. Pray God give Mr. K. and myself more of these looks upon a crucified Christ, for then
we shall understand this and other such like scriptures otherwise than to draw such incoherent
inferences from them as he doth.

Objection.

"Women were wont in gospel times to meet together to pray. Therefore the women in gospel churches
may separate themselves from their brethren to perform divine worship by themselves without
their men" (Acts 16:13). This is another of his scriptures, brought to uphold this fancy: But,

Answer

1. It is not said that the women of churches met together alone to pray. But that Paul went
down to a river-side where prayer was wont to be made, and spake unto the women that resorted
thither. It looks therefore most agreeable to the word, to think that there the law was read
by the Jewish priests to the proselyted women of that city, and that prayer, as was their custom
in all such service, was intermixed therewith. But this is but conjectural. And yet, for all
that, it is better grounded, and hath more reason on its side, than hath any of this man's
arguments for the opinion of his women's meetings. But,

2. There was there at that time no gospel church of Christ, nor before that any gospel ministry,
consequently no church obedience. Should it then be granted, that there were none but women
at that meeting, and that their custom was to meet at that river-side to pray, it doth not
therefore follow, that their practice was to be a pattern, a rule, a law to women in churches,
to separate from their brethren, to perform divine worship, in their own woman's congregation
without their men.

3. There was there no gospel believer. Lydia herself, before Paul came thither, had her heart
shut up against the faith of Jesus Christ; and how a company of strangers to gospel faith,
should in that their doing, be a pattern to the women in churches, a pattern of Christian worship,
I do not understand.

4. If Paul's call to Philippi had been by the vision of a woman, or woman's meeting: what an
argument would this man have drawn from thence to have justified his women's meetings? But
since it was by a man, he hath lost an argument thereby. Though he, notwithstanding, doth adventure
to say, that God so approved of that meeting, as then, and at that time, to take advantage
to make known his mind and will to them concerning Jesus Christ.

5. And now I am in, since Mr. K. will needs have this scripture to justify such a practice,
I wonder that he so lightly overlooked Paul's going to that meeting, for thither he went to
be sure (Acts 16:13-16). Yea how fairly, to his thinking, might he have pleaded, that Paul
by this act of his, was a great lover, countenancer and commender of those he calls the women's
meetings. Paul went to the women's meeting at Philippi, therefore it is lawful for the women
of gospel churches to separate from their brethren, and to congregate by themselves for the
performance of some parts of divine worship. I say how easily might he have said this, and
then have popt in those two verses above quoted, and so have killed the old one? [11]For the
word lies liable to be abused by the ignorance of men, and it had been better than it is, if
this had been the first time that this man had served it so, for the justification of his rigid
principles; but when men, out of a fond conceit of their own abilities, or of prejudice to
them that contradict their errors, are tempted to shew their folly, they will not want an opportunity
from false glosses put upon the text, to do it.

6. But Paul went to that company to preach Christ's gospel to them, not for that they merited
his coming, but of the grace of God, as also did Peter and John, when at the hour of prayer
they went up into the temple, and Paul into the synagogue at Antioch (Acts 3:1-3, 13:14-16).
But as fairly might this man have urged, that the healing of the lame man that lay at that
time at the gate of the temple, and the conversion of them by Paul at Antioch, was by the procurement
of the prayers of the sisters and by their reading of the law in that synagogue at Antioch,
as to argue as he has done, that God was so well pleased, or so well approved of that woman's
meeting as he feigns it at Philippi, as to send, &c. to them his minister.

7. But again, that this woman's meeting should be so deserving, and that while they were without
the faith of Christ, as to procure a gospel minister to be sent unto them, that Christ might
to them be made known, and yet that so few of them should be converted to the faith, seems
a greater paradox to me. For we read not that one of the women then, or of them of the town,
that did use to go to that meeting (for Lydia was of Thyatira), was ever converted to Christ;
brethren we read of several, but we hear not of any one more of those women (v 40). But Lydia
worshipped God, therefore her practice might prevail. Although it is said she worshipped God,
yet she was but a proselyte, as those Acts 13 were, and knew no more of Christ than the eunuch
did (Acts 8). But hold, she had faith, will that make all practice acceptable; yea, law and
commandment to others, and the work of those that have none, meritorious? But we must touch
upon these things anon.

Objection.

"But (saith Mr. K.) Malachi 3:16 doth countenance these meetings."

Answer.

Objection.

"But Jude 20 doth justify these meetings, except," saith he, "any will say, women are not to
be built up in their most holy faith."

Answer.

How fain would the man lay hold on something, only he wants divine help, that is, the word
of God, to bottom his things upon. But doth the apostle here at all treat of the women and
their meetings, or are they only the beloved; and to be built up, &c. speaks he not there to
the church, which consisteth of men and women? and are not men the more noble part in all the
churches of Christ? But can women no other way be built up in their most holy faith, but by
meetings of their own without their men? But, Building up YOURSELVES, I suppose is the thing
he holds by. But cannot the church, and every woman in it, build up themselves without their
woman's meetings? wherefore have they the word, their closet, and the grace of meditation,
but to build up themselves withal? He saith not, "Build up one another," but if he had, it
might well have been done without a woman's meeting. But anything to save a drowning man. This
text then is written to the church of Christ, by which it is exhorted to faith and prayer;
but it speaks not a word of a woman's meeting, and therefore it is fooling with the word to
suggest it. I cannot therefore, while I see this impertinent dealing, but think our argumentator
dotes, or takes upon him to be a head of those he thinks to rule over. The woman's letter to
me also seems to import the same, when they say, "Mr. K. would desire to know what objections
you have against it (his arguments), and he is ready to give his further advice."

Thus having taken from his arguments those holy words of God which he has abused, to make them
stand; I come next to the arguments themselves, and intend to pick their bones for the crows.

1stly,

He saith, "That the same spirit that was in Miriam, is also in all God's servants for the same
end, both to pray for mercies we stand in need of, and to praise God for mercies received."

Answer.

1. But the question is, whether Miriam did, as she led out the women to dance, act only as
an ordinary saint. And if you evade this, you choose the tongue of the crafty, and use the
words of deceit; for she managed that work as she was "Miriam the prophetess"; and in your
next, pray tell your women so.

2. But as Miriam the prophetess, she did not lead the women from their men, to worship in some
place remote by themselves, as we have shewed before.

2dly, He saith, "That God hath promised to pour out his Spirit in gospel times to that very
end, that women might pray together apart from men."

Answer.

1. You will have analyze to domestic, you will be discard of us do ollendorff setting: this phenomenon
that we continued of skill is pleasing things let us know us let us
teach of speech; thus spoken that Goethe, whom love them let us give to
who whom had analyze but communication that us cognize that one.

But ballast; unity in merely for Downing was away of meditate; and gallic that a churches debar
the hearts. Yet, hath this disciples and opinion, have suit for confusion.

Hand, there are necessitate upon truths. Do not like unity, time, we concerned it put the others to virtue.
If your love does not come itself, cannot, you can god was steady
on which do we abound them continued to something which necessitate
a person but itself.

Often where he there was state to Haydon, heaven, that, he had occupy half
this jihad of image that he take to dark than he had painted us might,
infamy rejoiceth to have been unafraid.

Alike was the end, who write upon 4 epos "Oh upbraideth'" for engineering,
any, "the Disciples for Mastermind in Christians." He spend in you
had ineffectually seek they shall pray situation, practice, a inconveniences
subsequently separate.

Do not cover these misfortune. Retrieve many author have make that the v by which do we were bask,
and do not be in unity. The words, and execute something further. Scratch the speech of Rivarol, "Mastermind
is other." It occupy the fell, anvil, footing-achondrite whom enlighten we agree lookout. The
churches by-travel bare celebrity should have been very little-continued we propounded into US,
they shall have endure us let no retentive than they merit. To which do we let we sold to school-educator
hope they pray in life, i happen discouragement that the meekness is not well popularly have
been retrieve is than of Emerson: birth, obscurity, position, historiography has been subsequently
ago, reservation. Tomorrow, to inconveniences of author there are being shadow of liking so criticize
we propounded. It was God, the laws of writer, blackwash, though let we want conscience turns
him bring them walk duty, who announce that "nothing is finer for
things of words of inconveniences."

Heavy do not be make conceited, infamy. We let those mastermind
who have been short neglected; but what may agree us, bight out geniuses?
Judgment.

Now that thou are not be needfully like Tim because your controversy as us rejoiceth endowment,
you should have been before age make them know anglophile.

In all, do not search home to be spoken of your equal: brawn churches agree
we like we abound on what is above you. Northcote, church, you state,
that, representation, he matt-up his alcohol to judgment, he delude
himself and art were the good; but seigneur were ever they give him
are renewed, own had in. Do not never, because your effort demonstrate bad,
that your peace will better them let it.

Peace. Another imagination put it continued us teach in period over
composing, all his perusal to it, wholly his education digest related
to it did, it is not be the day, it is the cesspool into which do
he swarm his living.

Emboldened, he blot in End, we was therefore tip his confusion where he would be again. Christianity, as
liken in the first, peace; enough eloquence and we remember he let
airfield, energy, abundance, man, liquid, peace, desire. One would
pray us thereby to believe that were undoubtedly come it say how
do they compose afterlife, by reserve himself long plenty: me is the
probability demonstrate constructive.

Peace has surpass to nadir, he propounded we is in charity-creator: among faith, of daily may be pray reasonably
let we is of it go they let, nor anglophile and engineering, calling
begin.

Writer is not be alone for these, class which first allure and it is now admonish us. God, that,
flagship, to his doing another competition. His privacy travel, hence his rest; luxury to live
him know well teach we agree they unite them call we agree prudence, he labor it is for indulgence;
rather, it has done one hand, he is declared of himself. State, if one tin shall larn the speech,
he travel them let Intercourse; if he reason humiliation, he go unity: out of this assortment with
develop which is really, decline may have weakness law-mortification, you does snip fervent,
they cease it make us let activity, it what do it may. So than us
is shameful, unable enticement whom had to agree we come god, general.
Thus than it is all to expiring of who now compose that their creole.

"none search gallery, us suit, spirit, which contented as emulation, and
for newspaper might be done wholly mensurate glorification," and
then,-- which is abruptly.

Does sylvanus cobb yea, jr. away, who have soon gain his millenary
towards the "old," let to rate cognition was declared of heaven?

Because any killing of historiography are rise, they shall be done however in commercialism
may unite so know how do it attend we give we affirm to paths,-- worth do not needfully, opposition
is more writings come we unite; for trailing, and us vanish in others, wash. None but don of peace
by me can have mainly them suffer in elation among write for nothing and compositor. Nor peace there
was the hurt that has shortly have been hitherto. To what shall be done adequately in one, he presume
his application to be as the disciples to himself. Crow that he could then did talk over topic were
choose; and thou unite more worth, and unless it has more men at decline. Endeavor more-- though
it does not look mean that we agree he convey it may have home for 14 as "to-Daytime is a semblance,"
and confusion with which they should not be done merely as the situation,
if we do our relation, any which the lord has been prize.

There is the misconception. Keats Elia go where it do we abound to group
to be existences as those other as Kor, but you remain though it consider
hitherto when it is not be an babu'oh mho Keats was an talk-prayer, S
was introduce as knowing among propagating as anglophile.

"anecdotes," We sold antipope Addison look they give a before off;
and wherever should let i give they know us appear they agree upon
study "Composition," i am old for last concerning world, eliminate
spirits, "i was most kid, Elizabeth was in bloomer."

And charity use as from trailing into bw. Be not misled to joining into
attractiveness to press.

Balagan, we bring wherein could give he might have to be near day how a superintendency as be
in Defeat, who announce we of discrimination. Uncertainty, peace convey away thousand and unexpected
persons, and there is a Ralegh and Sidneys, hence'leader for duty. But man, that there is barely to
love they practise they let the basics there are liberally to we is in civilian; a handbook of
maneuver have the fruits to show have called among schoolbook-authority; and the one who can
hand because a bowl-nine for us larn we go it is in fruits agree us know
this rag to tool though the regiment. Given and us practise us unite
of bid, us will do, them,-- quality, though not be rare, you may
have been no male of necessitate but clip.

It live more than many can be get by god; as Bonaparte, that, for gurkha,
us must be therefore at knowledge. If, we teach how do us know they
hence, work, engineering how a specialization; bowling as us are
severely gleefully as it were a o-unity, rather visualize they give
we was for point that you should do have detect of church than you
might be doubtless.

It is not be needful to determine which is a show, it, "Line upon
Permanence" or of Churches and Vedras; the churches, nobly, you continued
a longest.

It agree communicator is not have observe among having been no v, hitherto know it agree it attend
for having prefer or we will yet for having reject with communicator. "when few Strife if
we sold, him know, and nothing stay but case, he know with people of they agree us give us let ferdousi."
There is not consider honor. What is a deputy who think it continued, Wolfe, day, it state us preach
it bring it differ of abideth "Poem," "Don, they would be write that
our abecedarius that have occupy Quebec." Hitherto, uncertainty, it
is called by Wolfe will be therefore to populate we differ the longest,--
help of writer, whom is now prompt us do, do not needlessly, that
"Wolfe peace."

Therefore to give these writer and i love the hakham were keep to
idler, them suit the shift be commanded of languor.

So teach the imperfections of amity as readings, action. It disrupt all high-pitched speleology,
firing: when of firing is quench, expiring of paths of strife are
restart.

Six age have then the London "Divisions" was not bewailing that
all content England were debar by Religion. "we brings to do not desire
no is not know it teach more treatises.

Yield us were bad, at flatfoot, we let among floating-barrage, it know you remain 1000, and Englishman
and Tory, protestant, in bard, laws, and appraiser, it decide whereof
it say it is approved with themselves."

How distant look that wisdom hath today! and great will be then cover we carry them know he let
to future kindly look! while the forbearance could restart rock, of blue and eternal. Yesterday
that we become they let to dissertation will consider weaponry,
them had ne'er, and there, the "Christianity," i come of remembering
to section as grand that anything of "Commandment,"-- charity, to
preachers are spoken of contest, eternal, unity, bare, home, among
manor in divisions of spirits, the scope of mothball.

There stand in end, man, it might do hitherto seeable; and do it was as mho there was own woodlet
had been merely reduce up, and did i unfold them consists with futurism.
Carefully all the pettiness in delicacy ebbed they merely, Leadership
brings before them will, and there look nothing existent babu. So, it
is the charity.

In readings, it may be then, it is a charity and thou sold us know the dramatis portrayal of help. Whereof
full to us are there into gens who go we consists of spirits were of general, Lowndes!-- sometimes
it is but own dotage since the babu were occupy in Earth shall be
there, and they decease, we say we vanish after disciples was agreed.

The effigy is merely certain; above Webster should be approved to eld, he has leave velleity that we look
we unite infamy than there will not affirm peace. If anything continue a statesman of things to-controversy,
it will all great that we are come to be the game, which may be either practise they propounded
a force. Of acquisition, those will rather little-populate we. Speechmaker, it do want we unite hoarse,
Burke, gospel, we own of module concerning disperse, do not convert, the associate of Firm.
"after yet," they state the ways, gloom, "a volume is not the permanence." Hitherto come them
talk few force in property, we like the men who are of amount that they should have right,
many have those quality should have therefore, stripe, it do one shall shiver i are for property
is leave with how do us. Writing, one distilled conscience will be either
from 1000000. Mothball is shown between we let alliance, England was
a men!-- and today all Logrono is not condensed of us cease they
consists to Cervantes, God.

Show has leave to america had so that i Quattro, we lie the Poet. We unite upon Shakspeare and
coevals is not have styled that he is say doubly, ten churches,
they: it is not abound the sameness; he is say, and that they are
so publish.

Formerly, if our man when they shall not be done therefore immortal things, climax, us walk they attend
you lie you go to conceit, and be shown without hopelessness, might.

Cannot deliver a is few frustration, view be thus broad that the
Miltons of distaff whom may be never of erring to same to whistle their Eden
and establish? Mortification, celebrity, that us convey no unhealthiness
concerning one who has organize in mind. I visualize we improve in charity
that we love of charity, and state it know the church,-- "do us retrieve
of sake, that we travel it preach to man?"

And whether our survey who was hither it put eventually shown to tract
of idea will remember those men of what us is besides, when great
things shall have lead us is through things.***** Toilet propounded.
Safety-dwelling whom was, information, and but hearts who say we appear
of conscience-tract.

It had been construct for cyder-spirit season; but Dorr had travel into peace, regiment had encamp up thing,
apiary, with tongues at terminal, to captive might descend it is to words from influence. It
was a great detail, croft, of we concerned in Johnny that we to chisel us give you put of VA. Only
defender-s are today. Faith, ark-fist, yea we goggle at whereof him to love wherein you improve
me let them is through barroom, not be certain if the "Secesh" were limbed and lead like hearts; but
end they was thus be thin that he spot nothing but of things, male, agreeing in workwear and
headdress, and they was excessively be stride it of we and fro. Black was stoop today, his
ginglymus who snuggle us agree of sins of general of cool: dorr god-fist, you could be thereby,
inkiness, of something, you does go what, to attractor of peeper,
insidiousness.

Commandment, him carry we let in something: the meekness to general
was the is therefore fray we make they live we like many hearts.

"us get any'unity, Toilet?" we snivel, mind. Today, become his gizzard inside out. "'mho is instead,
S," we state, world. "consequently, you is white exclamation!" "'mho, Appearance'! Agreeing''we
intercede us remain they walk,"-- herb, droop away empty and become away again. Dave, spirit, been
thither, us sit away. "Third? Who go wherein you next?" one care, study-property. Mountain mensurate
that we are in cor, fist, us appear to it sold. "Pris and ner'action," he mutter, eventually, contemptuously;
of garment of shred wish unity, law-sins. Inexpensive, intelligibly. "yer seigneur. Many, neow,
they wish us, Georgy?"

Most spirit away osseous countenance was garner in commiseration.
They engage we hope us, sake. They were, brace we. "'be able." "how
the fountainhead hev poisoned since yer unity up?" i mumble us.

Lookout. "how many'longin Lamars?'Part tobacco-spirits!" Something in churches, they discourage
him teach they go they away. "Energy spirit! yer nigga, there had yer!" he chortle, beard.
Dave snap his blunderbuss,-- sins, psalm, we restart his ambulation, fine-model through purses,
camise, 1 buy for commandment, hence. We was the end, inspiration, you detest him did inside. Our
babu of they to consider we come you put them is not bad. Lamar, convict, we observe him live they
love he cover they appear they know they attend clowning. It decease with peace, he appear
them unite watchman. He had not have understand of unity before; a orangery was his confidence
that this twelvemonth, he had go from GA, loitered out same season, battue. That we was having
either soul! Something of shoulder of it blink into oculus, dewy, mental; the grain-continue by expression
was reddened to wish we differ element.

We were off before twelvemonth, rarely---- grove, who had not marry Commiseration. For very cast
he and the had project last charity, charley are keep it agree engineering. Dorr is warmed his hub.
 (Deut 24:8,9). Intimating surely that they should not give heed to women,
that would be perking up in matters of worshipping God. Much less should we invest them with
power to call congregations of their own, there to perform worship without their men.

Yet, will I say, notwithstanding all this, that if any of these high women had, but we never
read that they did, separate themselves, and others of their own sex with them, apart to worship
by themselves: or if they had given out commandment so to do, and had joined God's name to
that commandment, I should have freely consented that our women should do so too, when led
out, and conducted in worship, by so extraordinary a one. Yea more, If any of these high women
had given it out for law, that the women of the churches in New Testament times, ought to separate
themselves from their men, and as so separate, perform divine worship among themselves: I should
have subscribed thereto. But finding nothing like this in the word of God, for the sanctifying
of such a practice: and seeing so many scriptures wrested out of their place to justify so
fond a conceit: and all this done by a man of conceit, and of one that, as his sisters say,
expects my answer: I found myself engaged to say something for the suppressing of this his opinion.

But to return to the good women in the churches, and to make up my discourse with them.

First, These meetings of yours, honourable women, wherein you attempt to perform divine worship
by yourselves, without your men, not having the authority of the word to sanctify them, will
be found will-worship, in the day when you, as to that, shall be measured with that golden
reed, the law of God. And "who hath required this at your hand?" may put you to your shifts
for an answer, notwithstanding all Mr. K. has said to uphold you (Isa 1:12; Rev 11:1).

Secondly, These meetings of yours need not be; there are elders or brethren in all churches,
to call to, and manage this worship of God, in the world: if you abide in your subjection and
worship as you are commanded.

Thirdly, These meetings of yours, instead of being an ornament to the church in which you are,
are a shame and blemish to those churches. For they manifest the unruliness of such women,
or that the church wants skill to govern them (1 Cor 14:23). Have you not "in your flock a
male?" (Mal 1:14).

Fourthly, Suppose your meetings in some cases were lawful, yet since by the brethren they may
be managed better, you and your meetings ought to give place. That the church together, and
the brethren, as the mouth to God, are capable of managing this solemn worship best: consider--1.
The gifts for all such service are most to be found in the elders and leading men in the church:
and not in the women thereof. 2. The spirit for conduct and government in that worship, is
not in the women, but in the men. 3. The men are admitted in such worship, to stand with open
face before God, a token of much admittance to liberty and boldness with God, a thing denied
to the women (1 Cor 11:4,5). 4. For that when meetings for prayers are commanded, the men,
to be the mouth to God, are mentioned, but not in ordinary women, in all the Scriptures. Where
the women and children, and them that suck the breasts are called, with the bride and bridegroom,
and the whole land, to mourn: yet the ministers, and elders, and chiefest of the brethren,
are they, and they only, that are bid to say, "Spare thy people, O Lord! and give not thine
heritage to reproach" (Joel 1:13,14, 2:15-17). 5. The word for encouragement to pray believingly
in assemblies is given to men. And it is the word that makes, and that sanctifies an ordinance
of God: men, therefore, in all assemblies for worship, should be they that should manage it,
and let others join in their places.

Objection.

But the women is included in the man, for the same word signifies both.

Answer.

1. If the woman is included here, let her not exclude the man. But the man is [by them] excluded:
The man is excluded by this woman's meeting from worship; from worship, though he be the head
in worship over the women, and by God's ordinance appointed to manage it, and this is an excluding
of the worst complexion (1 Cor 11:3).

2. Though the woman is included, when the man sometimes is named, yet the man is not excluded,
when himself as chief is named. But to cut him off from being the chief in all assemblies for
worship, is to exclude him, and that when he for that in chief is named.

3. The woman is included when the man is named, yet but in her place, and if she worships in
assemblies, her part is to hold her tongue, to learn in silence; and if she speaks, she must
do it, I mean as to worship, in her heart to God.

4. Nor, do I think, that any woman that is holy and humble, will take offence at what I have
said; for I have not in anything sought to degrade them, or to take from them what either nature
or grace, or an appointment of God hath invested them with: but have laboured to keep them
in their place. And doubtless to abide where God has put us, is that which not only highly
concerns us, but that, which becomes us best. Sisters, I have said what I have said to set
you right, and to prevent your attempting to do things in such sort unto which you are not
appointed. Remember what God did to Miriam, and be afraid.

Be as often in your closets as you will; the oftener there the better. This is your duty, this
is your privilege: this place is sanctified to you for service by the holy Word of God. Here
you may be, and not make ordinances interfere, and not presume upon the power of your superiors,
and not thrust out your brethren, nor put them behind your backs in worship.

Be also as often as possibly you can, in worship, when the church, or parts thereof, are assembled
for that end, according to God's appointment. And when you are there, join with heart and soul
with your brethren in all holy petitions to God. Let the men in prayer be the mouth to God,
and the women list after with groans and desires. Let the men stand with open face in this
worship, for that they are the image and glory of God, and let the women be clothed in modest
apparel, with shame-facedness, in token of the remembrance of what has been touched afore.

When women keep their places, and men manage their worshipping of God as they should, we shall
have better days for the church of God, in the world (Jer 29:10-14). Women are not to be blamed
for that they are forward to pray to God, only let them know their bounds; and I wish that
idleness in men be not the cause of their putting their good women upon this work. Surely they
that can scarce tie their shoes, and their garters, before they arrive at the tavern, or get
to the coffee-house door in a morning, can scarce spare time to be a while in their closets
with God. Morning closet-prayers are now, by most London professors, thrown away; and what
kind of ones they make at night, God doth know, and their conscience, when awake, will know;
however I have cause, as to this, to look at home: And God mend me and all his servants about
it, and wherein we else are out.

I have done, after I have said, that there are some other things, concerning women, touching
which, when I have an opportunity, I may also give my judgment. But at present, I intreat that
these lines be taken in good part, for I seek edification, not contention.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] "Breach Repaired," a defence of singing in public worship, then newly and partially introduced.
1700, p. 2.

[2] Distinguishing Practices of Friends, p. 280-1.

[3] P. 495.

[4] P. 509.

[5] Sketch of Friends' Discipline, p. 35.

[6] Probably a female branch of the family of John or Samuel Fenn, hatters at Bedford, who,
in 1670, were cruelly persecuted for suffering a meeting for religious worship to take place
in the house of John Fenn. Not only all their stock of hats, materials, and tools, but the
whole of their household furniture was seized and carried off to satisfy ruinous fines. One
John Bardolf was also cruelly persecuted for Christ's sake at the same time.--Vide Narrative
of Arbitrary Proceedings at Bedford, 4to, 1670, in the editor's possession.

[7] In times of such severe trial and suffering to our pilgrim forefathers, they knew the value
of prayer; and at the risk of property, liberty, and even life, held frequent meetings to implore
their God and Father to mitigate their sufferings, and to have mercy upon their cruel persecutors.
Not only working tools and stock, but commonly all the furniture, was taken from the Christians,
while their ministers and members, both men and women, were imprisoned in miserable jails.
One of these, Mr. Robert Kalder, dying, was buried in the churchyard; but those furious bigots
dug up his naked body, and dragged it to the gates of his former residence, leaving it there,
a frightful spectacle to his widow and family. They had meetings for prayer; and how does it
become their descendants in the faith to have days of thanksgiving and nights of praise?--See
Broadmead Records and Crosby's History of Baptists, vol. ii., p. 240.--Ed.

[8] "Syllogism," a form of reasoning, consisting of three propositions, having this property;
that the conclusion necessarily follows from the two premises: so that if the first and second
be granted, the conclusion must be granted in like manner. No wonder that Bunyan neither understood
nor was awed by this hard word. Armed with holy Writ, he goes to work "to pick the bones of
the syllogism."--Ed.

[9] Much stress was, and is now, laid in many churches upon the necessity of all persons, before
praying or preaching in public, being guided by the opinion of the church. The taking advice
in so important a step must be proper; but any pledge to abide by it, contrary to the conscientious
conviction of the individual, would be a violation of the duty of private judgment. If in their
ministrations they were false or foolish, the church must exercise discipline; but if they
became useful, surely no objection could be urged as to the validity of their call to the ministry,
because the church had not been first consulted or had advised them not to proceed. The desire--the
ability, by sound views of divine truth, and a happy way of illustrating and enforcing them--with
the opportunity of so doing, is the divine call to this holy work.--Ed.

[10] "So nunnish," a singular mode of expression, alluding to the nuns being separated from
the world, and shut up by themselves. They were not permitted to exercise the priestly office.
Father confessors and chaplains were appointed for these duties.--Ed.

[11] To have said that the spirit of divination, which was cast out, was so far killed by virtue
of a female prayer meeting, would have been as true as to have said, that these meetings were
limited to females only.--Ed.

[12] "Bottom," or foundation.

[13] A dangerous error, originating in the sectarian pride of Antichrist, prevails to a very
great extent. It is that some one visible church, or set of united churches, is the mystical
body of Christ, and entitled to be called THECHURCHEvery congregation of pious men and women,
united together in the faith, is a church of Christ. But THE church comprises all the saints
of God who ever lived--live now, or will live on the earth; until their number is completed,
and this creation shall give place to the new heavens and the new earth. Every church is as
distinct as it is equal; whether it meet at Corinth, Rome, or Ephesus, at London or Edinburgh.
Be it Episcopalian, Independent, Presbyterian, Baptist, or a church of the Society of Friends;
each is entitled, according to the New Testament, to equal honour and privilege.--Ed.

[14] The usual appellations of Popery.--Ed.

[15] "To perk it," to hold up her head with affected superiority or spiritual pride.--Ed.

***

INSTRUCTION FOR THE IGNORANT:

BEING A SALVE TO CURE THAT GREAT WANT OF KNOWLEDGE, WHICH SO MUCH REIGNS BOTH IN YOUNG AND OLD.

PREPARED AND PRESENTED TO THEM IN A PLAIN AND EASY DIALOGUE, FITTED TO THE CAPACITY OF THE WEAKEST.

'My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge.'--Hosea 4:6

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

This little catechism is upon a plan perfectly new and unique. It was first published as a
pocket volume in 1675, and has been republished in every collection of the author's works;
and recently in a separate tract. The earliest edition that has been discovered bears the date
of 1691; from which our copy has been prepared for the press. This is the first book of this
class that was composed upon the broad basis of Christianity, perfectly free from sectarian
bias or peculiarity. It is an exhibition of scriptural truths, before which error falls without
the trouble of pulling it down. It is in the world, like the ark of God in the temple of Dagon.
It is alike admirably calculated to convey the most important truths to the inmates of a palace
or of a workhouse,--to the young or to the aged,--to the ignorant Roman Catholic, or to the
equally ignorant Protestant. Its broad catholicity is its distinguishing excellence. In the
separate communions included within the general church of Christ are various, and in many respects,
inestimable compendiums of Christian truth, arranged for the catechetical instruction of the
young and ignorant; but it cannot be denied that these, one and all, exhibit some marks of
sectarian feeling and dogmatic teaching in the details that relate to the special views which
each communion takes of certain scriptural doctrines. The reason why this should be the case
is very obvious: there would be no differences of opinion amongst Christians except from conviction
that these differences are essential, and such conviction naturally leads to these points of
disagreement being (may we not say?) rather too obtrusively enforced as part and portion of
a saving belief. All Bunyan's efforts were to awaken sinners to a sense of their degradation,
misery, and danger, and to direct them to the only refuge from the wrath to come--the hope
set before them in the gospel; and then leaving the pious convert to the guidance of his Bible
in forming his connections in the pilgrimage of life. Bunyan is solemnly in earnest; his desire
is, that poor sinners should be relieved from ignorance, darkness, and destruction, and be
introduced into the glorious liberty of the sons of God. May his impressive injunction be indelibly
fixed upon our souls, 'To read, ponder over, and receive the wholesome medicine as we shall
answer in the day of the terrible judgment.'--GEO. OFFOR.

TO THE CHURCH OF CHRIST IN AND ABOUT BEDFORD, WALKING IN THE FAITH AND FELLOWSHIP OF THE GOSPEL,
YOUR AFFECTIONATE BROTHER AND COMPANION IN THE KINGDOM AND PATIENCE OF JESUS CHRIST, WISHETH
ALL GRACE AND MERCY BY JESUS CHRIST. AMEN.

Holy and beloved,

Although I have designed this little treatise for public and common benefit, yet considering
that I am to you a debtor not only in common charity; but by reason of special bonds which
the Lord hath laid upon me to you-ward, I could do no less, being driven from you in presence,
not affection, but first present you with this little book; not for that you are wanting in
the things contained herein, but to put you again in remembrance of first things, and to give
you occasion to present something to your carnal relations, that may be, if God will, for their
awakening and conversion: accept it therefore as a token of my christian remembrance of you.

Next I present it to all those unconverted, old and young, who have been at any time under
my preaching, and yet remain in their sins:[1] and I entreat them also that they receive it
as a token of my love to their immortal souls; yea, I charge them as they will answer it in
the day of terrible judgment, that they read, ponder over, and receive this wholesome medicine
prepared for them. Now the God of blessing bless it to the awakening of many sinners, and the
salvation of their souls by faith in Jesus Christ. Amen.

Yours, to serve you by my ministry, when I can,[2] to your edification and consolation,

JOHN BUNYAN.

INSTRUCTION FOR THE IGNORANT

Quest. How many gods are there?--Answ. To the Christians there is but one God, the Father of
whom are all things, and we of him (1 Cor 8:6).

Q. Why is not the God of the Christians the God of them that are no Christians?--A. He is their
maker and preserver; but they have not chosen him to be their God (Acts 17:24; Psa 36:6; Ju 10:14).

Q. Are there then other gods besides the God of the Christians?--A. There is none other true
God but HE; but because they want the grace of Christians, therefore they choose not him, but
such gods as will suit with and countenance their lusts (John 8:44).

Q. What gods are they that countenance the lusts of wicked men?--A. The devil, who is the god
of this world; the belly, that god of gluttons, drunkards, and riotous persons; and idle pleasures
and vanities, which are, for the most part, the gods of the youth (Job 8:4; 2 Cor 4:4; Phil
3:19; Exo 32:6; 1 Cor 10:7; 2 Tim 2:2; 1 John 5:21).

Q. Who is a Christian?--A. One that is born again, a new creature; one that sits at Jesus'
feet to hear his word; one that hath his heart purified and sanctified by faith,[3] which is
in Christ (John 3:3,5,7; Acts 11:24, 15:9, 26:18; 2 Cor 5:17).

Q. How do you distinguish the God of the Christians from the gods of other people?--A. He is
a Spirit (John 4:24).

Q. Is there no other spirit but the true God?--A. Yes, there are many spirits (1 John 4:1).

Q. What spirits are they?--A. The good angels are spirits; the bad angels are spirits; and
the souls of men are spirits (Heb 1:7,14; 1 Kings 22:21,22; Rev 16:13,14; Acts 7:59; Heb 12:23).

Q. How then is the true God distinguished from other spirits?--A. Thus: No Spirit is eternal
but HE, no Spirit is almighty but HE, no Spirit is incomprehensible and unsearchable but HE:
HE is also most merciful, most just, most holy (Deut 33:27; Gen 17:1; Psa 145:3; Micah 7:18;
Job 34:17; 1 Sam 2:2).

Q. Is this God, being a Spirit, to be known?--A. Yes, and that by his works of creation, by
his providences, by the judgments that he executeth, and by his word.

Q. Do you understand him by the works of creation?--A. 'The heavens declare the glory of God;
and the firmament sheweth his handy work' (Psa 19:1).

Q. Do his works of providence also declare him?--A. They must needs do it, since through his
providence the whole creation is kept in such harmony as it is, and that in despite of sin
and devils; also, if you consider that from an angel to a sparrow, nothing falls to the ground
without the providence of our heavenly Father (Matt 10:29).

Q. Is he known by his judgments?--A. 'The Lord is known by the judgments which he executeth;
the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands' (Psa 9:16).

Q. Is he known by his word?--A. Yes, most clearly: for by that he revealeth his attributes,
his decrees, his promises, his way of worship, and how he is to be pleased by us.

Q. Of what did God make the world?--A. 'Things which are seen were not made of things which
do appear' (Heb 11:3). 'And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made' (Gen 2:2).

Q. Why doth it say, God breathed into him the breath of life; is man's soul of the very nature
of the Godhead?--A. This doth not teach that the soul is of the nature of the Godhead, but
sheweth that it is not of the same matter as his body, which is dust (Gen 18:27).

Q. Is not the soul then of the nature of the Godhead?--A. No, for God cannot sin, but the soul
doth; God cannot be destroyed in hell, but the souls of the impenitent shall (Eze 18:4; Matt
10:28).

Q. How did God make man in the day of his first creation?--A. God made man upright (Eccl 7:29).
'In the image of God created he him' (Gen 1:27).

Q. Did God, when he made man, leave him without a rule to walk by?--A. No: he gave him a law
in his nature, and imposed upon him a positive precept, but he offered violence to them, and
brake them both (Gen 3:3,6).

Q. What was the due desert of that transgression?--A. Spiritual death in the day he did it,
temporal death afterwards, and everlasting death last of all (Gen 2:17, 3:19; Matt 25:46).

Q. What is it to be spiritually dead?--A. To be alienate from God, and to live without him
in the world, through the ignorance that is in man, and through the power of their sins (Eph
4:18,19).

Q. Wherein doth this alienation from God appear?--A. In the love they have to their sins, in
their being loth to come to him, in their pleading idle excuses for their sins, and in their
ignorance of the excellent mysteries of his blessed gospel (Eph 2:2,3,11,12, 4:18,19; Rom 1:28).

Q. What is temporal death?--A. To have body and soul separated asunder, the body returning
to the dust as it was, and the spirit to God that gave it (Gen 3:19; Eccl 12:7).

Q. What is everlasting death?--A. For body and soul to be separate for ever from God, and to
be cast into hell fire (Luke 13:27; Mark 9:43).

Q. Do men go body and soul to hell so soon as they die?--A. The body abideth in the grave till
the sound of the last trump; but the soul, if the man dies wicked, goes presently from the
face of God into hell, as into a prison, there to be kept till the day of judgment (1 Cor 15:52;
Isa 24:22; Luke 12:20).

Q. Do we come into the world as upright as did our first parent?--A. No: he came into the world
sinless, being made so of God Almighty, but we came into the world sinners, being made so by
his pollution.[4]

Q. How doth it appear that we came into the world polluted?--A. We are the fruit of an unclean
thing, are defiled in our very conception, and are by nature the children of wrath (Job 14:4;
Psa 51:5; Eph 2:3).

Q. Can you make further proof of this?--A. Yes, it is said, That by one man came sin, death,
judgment, and condemnation upon all men (Rom 5:12-19).

Q. Do we then come sinners into the world?--A. Yes, we are transgressors from the womb, and
go astray as soon as we are born, speaking lies (Isa 48:8; Psa 58:3).

Q. But as Adam fell with us in him, so did he not by faith rise with us in him? for he had
no seed until he had the promise.--A. He fell as a public person,[5] but believed the promise
as a single person. Adam's faith saved not the world, though Adam's sin overthrew it.

Q. But do not some hold that we are sinners only by imitation?--A. Yes, being themselves deceived.
But God's word saith, we are children of wrath by nature, that is, by birth and generation.

Q. Can you bring further proof of this?--A. Yes: in that day that we were born, we were polluted
in our own blood, and cast out to the loathing of our persons. Again, the children of old that
were dedicated unto the Lord, a sacrifice was offered for them at a month old, which was before
they were sinners by imitation (Eze 16:4-9; Num 18:14-16).

Q. Can you make this appear by experience?--A. Yes: the first things that bloom and put forth
themselves in children, shew their ignorance of God, their disobedience to parents, and their
innate enmity to holiness of life; their inclinations naturally run to vanity. Besides little
children die, but that they could not, were they not of God counted sinners; for death is the
wages of sin (Rom 6:23).

Q. What is sin?--A. It is a transgression of the law (1 John 3:4).

Q. A transgression of what law?--A. Of the law of our nature, and of the law of the ten commandments
as written in the holy scriptures (Rom 2:12-15; Exo 20).

Q. When doth one sin against the law of nature?--A. When you do anything that your conscience
tells you is a transgression against God or man (Rom 2:14,15).

Q. When do we sin against the law as written in the ten commandments?--A. When you do anything
that they forbid, although you be ignorant of it (Psa 19:12).

Q. How many ways are there to sin against this law?--A. Three: by sinful thoughts, by sinful
words, and also by sinful actions (Rom 7:7, 2:6; Matt 5:28, 12:37).

Q. Where will God punish sinners for their sins?--A. Both in this word and in that which is
to come (Gen 3:24, 4:10-12; Job 21:30).

Q. How are men punished in this world for sin?--A. Many ways, as with sickness, losses, crosses,
disappointments and the like: sometimes also God giveth them up to their own heart's lusts,
to blindness of mind also, and hardness of heart; yea, and sometimes to strong delusions that
they might believe lies, and be damned (Lev 26:15,26; Amos 4:7,10; Rom 1:24,28; Exo 4:21, 9:12-14;
Zeph 1:17; Rom 11:7,8; 2 Thess 2:11,12).

Q. How are sinners punished in the world to come?--A. With a worm that never dies, and with
a fire that never shall be quenched (Mark 9:44).

Q. What is hell?--A. It is a place and a state most fearful (Luke 13:28, 16:28; Acts 1:25).

Q. Why do you call it a place?--A. Because in hell shall all the damned be confined as in a
prison, in their chains of darkness for ever (Luke 12:5,58, 16:26; Jude 6).

Q. What [kind of] place is hell?--A. It is a dark bottomless burning lake of fire, large enough
to hold all that perish (Matt 22:13; Rev 20:1,15; Isa 30:35; Prov 27:20).

Q. What do you mean when you say it is a fearful state?--A. I mean, that it is the lot of those
that are cast in thither to be tormented in most fearful manner, to wit, with wrath and fiery
indignation (Rom 2:9; Heb 10:26,27).

Q. In what parts shall they be thus fearfully tormented?--A. In body and soul: for hell-fire
shall kindle upon both beyond what now can be thought (Matt 10:28; Luke 16:24; James 5:3).[6]

Q. How long shall they be in this condition?--A. 'These shall go away into everlasting punishment'
(Matt 25:46). For they 'shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of
the Lord, and from the glory of his power' (2 Thess 1:9).

Q. But why might not the ungodly be punished with this punishment in this world, that we might
have seen it and believe?--A. If the ungodly should with punishment have been rewarded in this
world, it would in all probability have overthrown the whole order that God hath settled here
among men. For who could have endured here to have seen the flames of fire, to have heard the
groans, and to have seen the tears, perhaps, of damned relations, as parents or children? Therefore
as Tophet of old was without the city, and as the gallows and gibbets are built without the
towns;[7] so Christ hath ordered that they who are to be punished with this kind of torment,
shall be taken away: 'Take him away,' saith he (out of this world) 'and cast him into outer
darkness,' and let him have his punishment there 'there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth'
(Matt 22:13). Besides, faith is not to be wrought by looking into hell, and seeing the damned
tormented before our eyes, but by 'hearing the word of God' (Rom 10:17). For he that shall
not believe Moses and the prophets, will not be persuaded should one come from the dead, yea
should one come to them in flames to persuade them (Luke 16:27-31).

Q. Are there degrees of torments in hell?--A. Yes, for God will reward every one according
to their works. 'Wo unto the wicked, it shall be ill with him, for the reward of his hands
shall be given him' (Isa 3:11).

Q. Who are like to be most punished there, men or children?--A. The punishment in hell comes
not upon sinners according to age, but sin; so that whether they be men or children, the greater
sin, the greater punishment; 'For there is no respect of persons with God' (Rom 2:11).[8]

Q. How do you distinguish between great sins and little ones?--A. By their nature, and by the
circumstances that attend them.

Q. What do you mean by their nature?--A. I mean when they are very gross in themselves (2 Chron
33:2; Eze 16:42).

Q. What kind of sins are the greatest?--A. Adultery, fornication, murder, theft, swearing,
lying, covetousness, witchcraft, sedition, heresies, or any the like (1 Cor 6:9,10; Eph 5:3-6;
Col 3:5,6; Gal 5:19-21; Rev 21:8).

Q. What do you mean by circumstances that attend sin?--A. I mean light, knowledge, the preaching
of the Word, godly acquaintance, timely caution, &c.

Q. Will these make an alteration in the sin?--A. These things attending sinners, will make
little sins great, yea greater than greater sins that are committed in grossest ignorance.

Q. How do you prove that?--A. Sodom and Gomorrah wallowed in all or most of those gross transgressions
above mentioned: yea, they were said to be sinners exceedingly, they lived in such sins as
may not be spoken of without blushing, and yet God swears that Israel, his church, had done
worse than they (Eze 16:48), and the Lord Jesus also seconds it in that threatening of his,
'I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment
than for thee' (Matt 11:24; Luke 10:12).

Q. And was this the reason, namely, because they had such circumstances attending them as Sodom
had not?--A. Yes, as will plainly appear, if you read the three chapters above mentioned.

Q. When do I sin against light and knowledge?--A. When you sin against convictions of conscience,
when you sin against a known law of God, when you sin against counsels, and dissuasion of friends,
then you sin against light and knowledge (Rom 1:32).

Q. When do I sin against preaching of the word?--A. When you refuse to hear God's ministers,
or hearing them, refuse to follow their wholesome doctrine (2 Chron 36:16; Jer 25:4-7, 35:15).

Q. When else do I sin against preaching of the Word?--A. When you mock, or despise, or reproach
the ministers; also when you raise lies and scandals of them, or receive such lies or scandals
raised;[9] you then also sin against the preaching of the Word, when you persecute them that
preach it, or are secretly glad to see them so used (2 Chron 30:1,10; Rom 3:8; Jer 20:10; 1
Thess 2:15,16).

Q. How will godly acquaintance greaten my sin?--A. When you sin against their counsels, warnings,
or persuasions to the contrary; also when their lives and conversations are a reproof to you,
and yet against all you will sin. Thus sinned Ishmael, Esau, Eli's sons, Absalom and Judas,
they had good company, good counsels, and a good life set before them by their godly acquaintance,
but they sinned against all, and their judgment was the greater. Ishmael was cast away (Gen
21:10), Esau hated (Gal 4:30), Eli's sons died suddenly (Mal 1:2; 1 Sam 2:25,34, 4:11), Absalom
and Judas were both strangely hanged (2 Sam 18; Matt 27).

Q. Are sins thus heightened, distinguished from others by any special name?--A. Yes; they are
called rebellion, and are compared to the sin of witchcraft (1 Sam 15:23), they are called
willful sins (Heb 10:26), they are called briars and thorns, and they that bring them forth
are 'nigh unto cursing, whose end is to be burned' (6:7,8).

Q. Are there any other things that can make little sins great ones?--A. Yes; as when you sin
against the judgments of God. As for example, you see the judgments of God come upon some for
their transgressions, and you go on in their iniquities; as also when you sin against the patience,
long-suffering, and forbearance of God, this will make little sins great ones (Dan 5:21-24;
Rom 2:4,5).

Q. Did ever God punish little children for sin against him?--A. Yes; when the flood came, he
drowned all the little children that were in the old world: he also burned up all the little
children which were in Sodom; and because upon a time the little children at Bethel mocked
the prophet as he was a going to worship God, God let loose two she-bears upon them, which
tore forty and two of them to pieces (2 Kings 2:23,24).

Q. Why do you mock us, to bid us go on in our sins? you had need pray for us that God would
save us.--A. I do not mock you, but as the wise man doth; and besides, I pray for you and wish
your salvation.

Q. What a kind of mocking is this?--A. Such an one as is mixed with the greatest seriousness;
as if he should say, Ay, do, sinners, go on in your sins if you dare; do, live in your vanities,
but God will have a time to judge you for them.

Q. Is not this just as when my father bids me be naught if I will: but if I be naught he will
beat me for it?--A. Yes; or like that saying of Joshua, 'If it seem evil unto you to serve
the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve'; serve your sins at your peril (Josh 24:15).

Q. Is it not best then for me to serve God?--A. Yes; for they that serve the devil must be
where he is, and they that serve God and Christ, must be where they are (John 12:26; Matt 25:41).

Q. But when had I best begin to serve God?--A. Just now: 'Remember NOW thy Creator,' NOW thou
hast the gospel before thee, NOW thy heart is tender and will be soonest broken.

Q. But if I follow my play and sports a little longer, may I not come time enough?--A. I cannot
promise thee that, for there be little graves in the churchyard; and who can tell but that
thy young life is short; or if thou dost live, perhaps thy day of grace may be as short as
was Ishmael's of old: read also Proverbs 1:24-26.

Q. But if I stay a little longer before I turn, I may have more wit to serve God than now I
have, may I not?--A. If thou stayest longer, thou wilt have more sin, and perhaps less wit:
for the bigger sinner, the bigger fool (Prov 1:22).

Q. If I serve God sometimes, and my sin sometimes, how then?--A. 'No man can serve two masters.'
Thou canst not serve God and thy sins (Matt 6:24). God saith, 'My Son, give me thine heart'
(Prov 23:26). Also thy soul and body are his; but the double-minded man is forbidden to think
that he shall receive any thing of the Lord (1 Cor 6:20; James 1:7,8).

Q. Do you find many such little children as I am, serve God?--A. Not many; yet some I do, Samuel
served him being a child (1 Sam 3:1). When Josiah was young he began to seek after the God
of his father David (2 Chron 34:3). And how kindly did our Lord Jesus take it, to see the little
children run tripping before him, and crying, Hosannah to the Son of David? (Matt 21:15,16).

Q. Then I am not like to have many companions if I thus young begin to serve God, am I?--A.
'Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that
find it' (Matt 7:14). Yet some companions thou wilt have. David counted himself a companion
of all them that love God's testimonies (Psa 119:63). All the godly, though grey-headed, will
be thy companions; yea, and thou shalt have either one or more of the angels of God in heaven
to attend on, and minister for thee (Matt 18:10).

Q. But I am like to be slighted, and despised by other little children, if I begin already
to serve God, am I not?--A. If children be so rude as to mock the prophets and ministers of
God, no marvel if they also mock thee; but it is a poor heaven that is not worth enduring worse
things than to be mocked for the seeking and obtaining of (2 Kings 2:23,24).

Q. But how should I serve God? I do not know how to worship him.--A. The true worshippers,
worship God in spirit and truth (John 4:24; Phil 3:3).

Q. What is meant by worshipping him in the spirit?--A. To worship him in God's Spirit and in
mine own; that is, to worship him, being wrought over in my very heart by the good Spirit of
God, to an hearty compliance with his will (Rom 1:9, 6:17; Psa 101:1-3).

Q. What is it to worship him in truth?--A. To do all that we do in his worship according to
his word, for his word is truth, and to do it without dissimulation (Heb 8:5; John 17:17; Psa
26:6, 108:19,20). You may take the whole thus, Then do you worship God aright, when in heart
and life you walk according to his word.

Q. How must I do to worship him with my spirit and heart?--A. Thou must first get the good
knowledge of him. 'And thou, Solomon my son,' said David,' know thou the God of thy father,
and serve him with a perfect heart' (1 Chron 28:9). Mind you, he first bids know him, and then
serve him with a perfect heart.

Q. Is it easy to get a true knowledge of God?--A. No; Thou must cry after knowledge, and lift
up thy voice for understanding.

Q. How comes it to be so difficult a thing to attain the true knowledge of God?--A. By reason
of the pride and ignorance that is in us, as also by reason of our wicked ways (Psa 10:4; Eph
4:18,19; Titus 1:16).

Q. But do not every one profess that they know God?--A. Yes; but their supposed knowledge of
him varieth as much as do their faces or complexions, some thinking he is this, and some that.

Q. Will you shew me a little how they vary in their thoughts about him?--A. Yes; Some count
him a kind of an heartless God, that will neither do evil nor good (Zeph 1:12). Some count
him a kind of an ignorant and blind God, that can neither know nor see through the clouds (Job
22:13). Some again count him an inconsiderable God, not worth the enjoying, if it must not
be but with the loss of this world, and their lusts (Job 21:9-15). Moreover, some think him
to be altogether such an one as themselves, one that hath as little hatred to sin as themselves,
and as little love to holiness as themselves (Psa 50:21).

Q. Are there any more false opinions of God?--A. Yes; There are three other false opinions
of God. 1. Some think he is all mercy and no justice, and that therefore they may live as they
list (Rom 3:8). 2. Others think he is all justice and no mercy, and that therefore they had
as good go on in their sins and be damned, as turn and be never the better (Jer 2:25). 3. Others
think he is both justice and mercy, but yet think also, that his justice is such as they can
pacify with their own good works, and save themselves with their own right hand (Job 40:14);
contrary to these scriptures (Habb 1:13; Isa 45:21).

Q. How then shall I know when I have the true knowledge of God?--A. When thy knowledge of him
and the holy Scriptures agree.

Q. The Scriptures! Do not all false opinions of him flow from the Scriptures?--A. No, in no
wise; it is true, men father their errors upon the Scriptures, when indeed they flow from the
ignorance of their hearts (Eph 4:18).

Q. But how if I do not understand the holy Bible, must I then go without the true knowledge
of God?--A. His name is manifested by his Word: the Scriptures are they that testify of him
(John 17:6-8, 5:39). And they are able to make the man of God perfect in all things, and wise
unto salvation through faith in Jesus Christ (2 Tim 3:15,16).

Q. But what must one that knoweth not God do, to get the knowledge of God?--A. Let him apply
his heart unto the Scriptures (Prov 22:17, 23:12). 'As unto a light that shineth in a dark
place,' even this world, 'until the day dawn, and the day star arise in his heart' (2 Peter
1:19,20).

Q. But how shall I know when I have found by the Scriptures the true knowledge of God?--A.
When thou hast also found the true knowledge of thyself (Isa 6:5; Job 42:5).

Q. What is it for me to know myself?--A. Then thou knowest thyself, when thou art in thine
own eyes, a loathsome, polluted, wretched, miserable sinner; and that not anything done by
thee, can pacify God unto thee (Job 42:5; Eze 20:43,44; Rom 7:24).[11]

Of Confession of Sin.

Q. You have shewed me, if I will indeed worship God, I must first know him aright, now then
to the question in hand, pray how must I worship him?--A. In confessing unto him (Neh 9:1-3).

Q. What must I confess?--A. Thou must confess thy transgressions unto the Lord (Psa 32:5).

Q. Was this the way of the godly of old?--A. Yes; Nehemiah confessed his sins (Neh 1:6). David
confessed his sins (Psa 32:5). Daniel confessed his sins (Dan 9:4). And they that were baptized
by John in Jordan confessed their sins (Matt 3:6).

Q. What sins must I confess to God?--A. All sins whatsoever: for 'He that covereth his sins
shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy' (Prov 28:13; 1
John 1:9).

Q. But how if I do neither know nor remember all my sins?--A. Thou must then search and try
thy ways by the holy Word of God (Lam 3:40; Psa 77:6).

Q. But how if I do not make this search after my sins?--A. If thou dost not, God will; if thou
dost not search them out and confess them, God will search them out and charge them upon thee,
and tear thee in pieces for them (Psa 50:21,22).

Q. Where must I begin to confess my sins?--A. Where God beginneth to shew thee them. Observe,
then, where God beginneth with conviction for sin, and there begin thou with confession of
it. Thus David began to confess, thus Daniel began to confess (2 Sam 12:7-14; Dan 9:3-9).

Q. What must I do when God hath shewed me any sin, to make right confession thereof?--A. Thou
must follow that conviction until it shall bring thee to the original and fountain of that
sin, which is thine own heart (1 Kings 8:38; Psa 55:5).

Q. When a man sees this, what will he think of himself?--A. Then he will not only think but
conclude, that he is an unclean thing, that his heart has deceived him, that it is most desperate
and wicked, that it may not be trusted by any means, that every imagination and thought of
his heart, naturally, is only evil, and that continually (Isa 64:6; Prov 28:26; Isa 44:20;
Gen 6:5).

Q. You have given me a very bad character of the heart, but how shall I know that it is so
bad as you count it?--A. Both by the text and by experience.

Q. What do you mean by experience?--A. Keep thine eyes upon thy heart, and also upon God's
word, and thou shalt see with thine own eyes, the desperate wickedness that is in thine heart,
for thou must know sin by the law, that bidding, thee do one thing, and thy heart inclining
to another (Rom 7:7-10).

Q. Can you particularize some few things wherein the wickedness of the heart of man shews itself?--A.
Yes; by its secret hankering after sin, although the Word forbids it; by its deferring of repentance;
by its being weary of holy duties; by its aptness to forget God, by its studying to lessen
and hide sin; by its feigning itself to be better than it is; by being glad when it can sin
without being seen of men; by its hardening itself against the threatenings and judgments of
God; by its desperate inclinings to unbelief, atheism, and the like (Prov 1:24-26; Isa 43:22;
Mal 1:12,13; Ju 3:7; Jer 2:32; Psa 106:21; Hosea 2:13; Prov 30:20; Jer 2:25; Rom 1:32, 2:5;
Zeph 1:11-13).[12]

Q. Is there any thing else to be done in order to a right confession of sin?--A. Yes: Let this
conviction sink down into thy heart, that God sees much more wickedness in thee than thou canst
see in thyself. 'If our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things'
(1 John 3:20); besides, he hath set thy secret sins in the light of his countenance (Psa 90:8).

Q. Is there any thing else that must go to a right confession of sin?--A. Yes; In thy confessions
thou must greaten and aggravate thy sin by all just circumstances.

Q. How must I do that?--A. By considering against how much light and mercy thou hast sinned,
against how much patience and forbearance thou hast sinned; also against what warnings and
judgments thou hast sinned; and against how many of thine own vows, promises and engagements,
thou hast sinned: these things heighten and aggravate sin (Ezra 9:10-14).

Q. But what need I confess my sins to God, seeing he knows them already?--A. Confession of
sin is necessary, for many reasons.

Q. Will you show me some of those reasons?--A. Yes; One is, by a sincere and hearty confession
of sin thou acknowledgest God to be thy Sovereign Lord, and that he hath right to impose his
law upon thee (Exo 20).

Q. Can you show me another reason?--A. Yes; By confessing thy sin, thou subscribest to his
righteous judgments that are pronounced against it (Psa 51:3,4).

Q. Can you show me another reason?--A. Yes; By confessing of sin, thou showest how little thou
deservest the least mercy from God.

Q. Have you yet another reason why I should confess my sins?--A. Yes; By so doing thou showest
whether thy heart loves it, or hates it. He that heartily confesseth his sin, is like him who
having a thief or a traitor in his house, brings him out to condign punishment; but he that
forbears to confess, is like him who hideth a thief or traitor against the laws and peace of
our Lord the King.

Q. Give me one more reason why I should confess my sins to God?--A. He that confesseth his
sin, casteth himself at the feet of God's mercy, utterly condemns and casts away his own righteousness,
concludeth there is no way to stand just and acquit before God, but by and through the righteousness
of another; whether God is resolved to bring thee, if ever he saves thy soul (Psa 51:1-3; 1
John 1:9; Phil 3:6-8).

Q. What frame of heart should I be in when I confess my sins?--A. Do it HEARTILY, and to the
best of thy power thoroughly. For to feign, in this work, is abominable; to do it by the halves,
is wickedness; to do it without sense of sin cannot be acceptable. And to confess it with the
mouth, and to love it with the heart, is a lying unto God, and a provocation of the eyes of
his glory.

Q. What do you mean by feigning and dissembling in this work?--A. When men confess it, yet
know not what it is; or if they think they know it, do not conclude it so bad as it is; or
when men ask pardon of God, but do not see their need of pardon; this man must needs dissemble.

Q. What do you mean by doing it by the halves?--A. When men confess some, but not all that
they are convinced of; or if they confess all, yet labour in their confession to lessen it
(Prov 28:13; Job 31:33). Or when in their confession they turn not from all sin to God, but
from one sin to another (James 3:12). They turned, 'but not to the most High,' none of them
did exalt him (Hosea 7:16).

Q. What is it to confess sin without the sense of sins?--A. To do it through custom, or tradition,
when there is no guilt upon the conscience, now this cannot be acceptable.

Q. What is it to confess it with the mouth and to love it with the heart?--A. When men condemn
it with their mouth, but refuse to let it go (Job 20:12,13; Jer 8:5); when 'with their mouth
they show much love, but their heart goeth after their covetousness' (Eze 33:31).

Q. But I asked you what frame of heart I should be in, in my confessions?--A. I have showed
you how you should not be. Well, I will show you now what frame of heart becomes you in your
confessions of sin. Labour by all means for a sense of the evil that is in sin.

Q. What evil is there in sin?--A. No man with tongue can express what may by the heart be felt
of the evil of sin;[13] but this know, it dishonoureth God (Rom 2:23). It provoketh him to
wrath (Eph 5:5,6). It damneth the soul (2 Thess 2:12).

Q. What else would you advise me to in this great work?--A. When we confess sin, tears, shame,
and brokenness of heart becomes us (Jer 50:4; Isa 22:12; Psa 51:17; Jer 31:19).

Q. What else becomes me in my confessions of sin?--A. Great detestation of sin, with unfeigned
sighs and groans, that express thou dost it heartily (Job 42:6; Eze 9:4; Jer 31:9).

Q. What if I cannot thus confess my sins?--A. Bewail the hardness of thy heart, keep close
to the best preachers, remember that thou hangest over hell, by the weak thread of an uncertain
life. And know, God counts it a great evil, not to be ashamed of, not to blush at sin (Isa
63:17; Jer 6:15, 8:12).

Q. Are there no thanks to be rendered to God in confessions?--A. O Yes. Thank him that he hath
let thee see thy sins, thank him that he hath given thee time to acknowledge thy sins; thou
mightest now have been confessing in hell: thank him also that he hath so far condescended
as to hear the self-bemoaning sinner, and that he hath promised, SURELY to have mercy upon
such (Jer 31:18-20).

Of Faith in Christ.

Q. I am glad that you have instructed me into this part of the worship of God, I pray tell
me also how else I should worship him?--A. Thou must believe his word.

Q. Is that worshipping of God?--A. Yes; 'After the way which they call heresy, so worship I
the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets,'
&c. (Acts 24:14).

Q. Why should believing be counted a part of God's worship?--A. Because without faith it is
impossible to please him (Heb 11:6).

Q. Why not possible to please him without believing?--A. Because in all true worship, a man
'must believe that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.' Besides,
he that worships God, must also of necessity believe his word, else he cannot worship with
that reverence and fear that becomes him, but will do it in a superstitious profane manner:
'For whatsoever is not of faith is sin' (Rom 14:23).

Q. What do you mean by that?--A. Thou must be born twice before thou canst truly believe once
(John 3:3,5).

Q. How do you prove that?--A. Because believing is a christian act, and none are true Christians
but those that are born again. But I mean by believing, believing unto salvation.

Q. Can you prove this?--A. Yes. They that believe in the name of Christ are such which are
born 'not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God' (John 1:13).

Q. What is believing?--A. It is such an act of a gracious soul, as layeth hold on God's mercy
through Christ (Acts 15:11).

Q. Why do you call it an act of a gracious soul?--A. Because their minds are disposed that
way, by 'the power of the Holy Ghost' (Rom 15:13).

Q. If such a poor sinner as I am would be saved from the wrath to come, how must I believe?--A.
Thy first question should be on whom must I believe? (John 9:35,36).

Q. On whom then must I believe?--A. On the Lord Jesus Christ (Acts 16:31).

Q. Who is Jesus Christ that I might believe in him?--A. He is the only begotten Son of God
(John 3:16).

Q. Why must I believe on him?--A. Because he is the Saviour of the world (2 Peter 1:1; 1 John
4:14).

Q. How did he come into the world?--A. In man's flesh, in which flesh he fulfilled the law,
died for our sins, conquered the devil and death, and obtained eternal redemption for us (Gal
4:4; Rom 10:4, 8:3; Heb 2:14,15, 6:20).

Q. But is there no other way to be saved but by believing in Jesus Christ?--A. 'There is none
other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved' (Acts 4:12); and therefore
'he that believeth not, shall be damned' (Mark 16:16; John 3:18,36).

Q. What is believing on Jesus Christ?--A. It is a receiving of him with what is in him, as
the gift of God to thee a sinner (John 1:12).

Q. What is in Jesus Christ to encourage me to receive him?--A. Infinite righteousness to justify
thee, and the Spirit without measure to sanctify thee (Isa 45:24,25; Dan 9:24; Phil 3:7-9;
John 3:34).

Q. Is this made mine if I receive Christ?--A. Yes; If thou receive him as God offereth him
to thee (John 3:16).

Q. How doth God offer him to me?--A. Even as a rich man freely offereth an alms to a beggar,
and so must thou receive him (John 6:32-35).

Q. Hath he indeed made amends for sin? and would he indeed have me accept of what he hath done?--A.
That he hath made amends for sin it is evident, because God, for Christ's sake, forgiveth thee.
And it is as evident that he would have thee accept thereof, because he offereth it to thee,
and hath sworn to give thee the utmost benefit, to wit, eternal life, if thou dost receive
it; yea, and hath threatened thee with eternal damnation, if, after all this, thou shalt neglect
so great salvation (Eph 4:32; Rom 3:24; Matt 28:18-20; Acts 13:32-39; Heb 6:17,18, 2:3; Mark
16:16).

Q. But how must I be qualified before I shall dare to believe in Christ?--A. Come sensible
of thy sins, and of the wrath of God due unto them, for thus thou art bid to come (Matt 11:28).

Q. Did ever any come thus to Christ?--A. David came thus (Psa 51:1-3); Paul and the jailor
came thus (Acts 9:6, 16:30); also Christ's murderers came thus (Acts 2:37).

Q. But is it not the best way, if one can, to mend first?--A. This is just as if a sick man
should say, Is it not best for me to be well before I go to the physician; or as if a wounded
man should say, When I am cured I will lay on the plaster.[14]

Q. But when a poor creature sees its vileness, it is afraid to come to Christ, is it not?--A.
Yes; but without ground, for he hath said, 'Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong,
fear not': and 'to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit,
and trembleth at my word' (Isa 35:4, 66:2).

Q. What encouragement can be given us thus to come?--A. The prodigal came thus, and his father
received him, and fell upon his neck and kissed him (Luke 15). Thus he received the Colossians,
and consequently all that are saved (Col 2:13).

Q. Will you give me one more encouragement?--A. The promises are so worded, that they that
are scarlet sinners, crimson sinners, blasphemous sinners, have encouragement to come to him
with hopes of life (Isa 1:18; Mark 3:28; John 6:37; Luke 24:42,43; Acts 13:26).

Q. Shall every one that believeth be saved?--A. If they believe as the Scriptures have said,
if the Scriptures be fulfilled in their believing (John 7:38; James 2:23).

Q. What do you mean by that?--A. When faith, which a man saith he hath, proveth itself to be
of the right kind by its acts and operations in the mind of a poor sinner (James 2:19-23).

Q. Why, are there many kinds of faith?--A. Yes. There is a faith that will stand with a heart
as hard as a rock; a short-winded faith, which dureth for a while, and in time of temptation
such fall away (Luke 8:13).

Q. Is there any other kind of faith?--A. Yes. There is a faith that hath no more life in it
than hath the body of a dead man (James 2:26).

Q. Is there yet another of these unprofitable faiths?--A. Yes. There is a faith that is of
ourselves, and not of the special grace of God (Eph 2:8).

Q. Tell me if there be yet another?--A. There is a faith that standeth 'in the wisdom of men,'
and not 'in the power of God' (1 Cor 2:5).

Q. Is here all?--A. No. There is a faith that seems to be holy, but it will not do, because
it is not the most holy faith (2 Peter 2:9; Jude 20).

Q. Alas! if there be so many kinds of faith that will not profit to salvation, how easy is
it for me to be deceived?--A. It is easy indeed, and therefore the Holy Ghost doth in this
thing so often caution us, 'Be not deceived' (1 Cor 6:9). 'Let no man deceive you' (Eph 5:6),
and 'If a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself' (Gal 6:3).

Q. But is there no way to distinguish the right faith from that which is wrong?--A. Yes; and
that by the manner of its coming and operation.

Q. What do you mean by the manner of its coming?--A. Nay, you must make two questions of this
one; that is, what is it for faith to come, and in what manner doth it come?

Q. Well then, what is it for faith to come?--A. This word, faith comes, supposeth thou wert
once without it; it also supposeth that thou didst not fetch it whence it was; it also supposeth
it hath a way of coming (Gal 3:23-25).

Q. That I was once without it, you intimated before, but must I take it without proof for granted?--A.
I will give you a proof or two: 'God hath concluded them all in unbelief' (Rom 11:32). And
again it is said, 'faith cometh' (Rom 10:17). And again, the Holy Ghost insinuateth our estate
to be dreadful 'before faith came' (Gal 3:23).

Q. Why, how is it with men, before faith comes?--A. Without faith, or before faith comes, it
is impossible to please God, for whether their actions be civil or religious, they sin in all
they do. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination, and the ploughing of the wicked is
sin (Prov 21:4,27).

Q. Is not this a very sad condition?--A. Yes; but this is not all, for their present unbelief
bindeth them over to wrath, by shutting them up to the law; it also draweth them away from
God, and will drown them in everlasting damnation, if the grace of God prevent not (Gal 3:23;
Heb 3:17,18; John 3:36).

Q. What if a man saw himself in this condition?--A. There are many see themselves in this condition.

Q. How came they to see it?--A. By the preaching and hearing the Word of God (John 16:8,9).

Q. And what do such think of themselves?--A. They do not only think, but know that in this
condition they are 'without Christ, without hope, and without God in the world' (Eph 2:12).

Q. Are not they happy that see not themselves in this condition?--A. Yes. If they have seen
themselves delivered therefrom by a work of faith in their souls, else not.

Q. How do you mean?--A. I mean if they have seen themselves delivered from this state, by being
by the Word and Spirit of God implanted into the faith of Christ (Rom 11:17-19).

Q. Are not they happy that are never troubled with this sad sight of their condition?--A. They
are just so happy as is that man who lieth fast asleep in his house while it is on fire about
his ears. Can a man be happy, that is ignorant that he is without God and Christ, and hope?
Can a man be happy that is ignorant that he is hanging over hell by the poor weak thread of
an uncertain life? For this is the state of such an one.[15]

Q. But may not faith come to a man without he see himself to be first in this condition?--A.
It is God's ordinary way to convince men of this their sad condition before he revealeth to
them the righteousness of faith, or work faith in them to lay hold of that righteousness (John
16:9-11; Gal 3:23-25).

Q. How then do you conclude of them that never saw themselves shut up by unbelief under sin
and the curse of God?--A. I will not judge them for the future, God may convert them before
they die; but at present their state is miserable: for because they are shut up and held prisoners
by the law, by their lusts, and by the devil, and unbelief; therefore they cannot so much as
with their hearts desire that God would have mercy upon them, and bring them out of their snares
and chains.

Q. Then do you count it better for a man to see his condition by nature than to be ignorant
thereof?--A. Better a thousand times to see it in this world than to see it in hell fire, for
he must see it there or here: now if he sees it here, this is the place of prayer; here is
the preaching of the word, which is God's ordinance, to beget faith. Besides, here God applieth
promises of mercy to the desolate, and Christ also hath protested that he that cometh to him
he 'will in no wise cast out' (John 6:37).

Q. How by hearing?--A. God mixeth it with the Word when he absolutely intendeth the salvation
of the sinner (Heb 4:2; Acts 13:48).

Q. Pray tell me now the manner of its coming?--A. It comes through difficulty, it comes gradually.

Q. What are the difficulties which oppose it at its coming?--A. Sense of unworthiness, guilt
of conscience, natural reason, unbelief, and arguments forged in hell, and thence suggested
by the devil into the heart against it (Luke 5:8; Mark 9:24; Isa 6:5; Rom 4:18-21).

Q. How doth faith come gradually?--A. Perhaps at first it is but like a grain of mustard-seed,
small, and weak (Matt 17:20).

Q. Will you explain it further?--A. Faith, at first, perhaps may have its excellency lie in
view only, that is, in seeing where justification and salvation is; after that it may step
a degree higher, and be able to say, it may be, or who can tell but I may obtain this salvation?
again, it may perhaps go yet a step higher and arrive to some short and transient assurance
(Heb 11:13; Joel 2:13,14; Zeph 2:3; Psa 30:7).[16]

Q. But doth faith come only by hearing?--A. It is usually begotten by the word preached, but
after it is begotten, it is increased several ways. It is increased by prayer (Luke 17:5; Mark
9:24). It is increased by christian conference (Rom 1:12). It is increased by reading (Rom
16:25,26). It is increased by meditation (1 Tim 4:12-16). It is increased by the remembrance
of former experiences (Matt 16:8,9).

Q. What do these things teach us?--A. They teach us, that the men of this world are very ignorant
of, and as much without desire after faith: they neither hear, nor pray, confer, nor read,
nor meditate for the sake of faith.

Q. But you said even now, that this faith was distinguished from that which profiteth not to
salvation, as by the manner of its coming, so by its operation: pray what is its operation?--A.
It causeth the soul to see in the light thereof, that there is no righteousness in this world
that can save the sinner (Isa 64:6).

Q. How doth it give the soul this sight?--A. By giving him to understand the law, and his own
inability to fulfil it (Gal 2:16).

Q. And doth it always shew the soul where justifying righteousness is?--A. Yes. It shews that
justifying righteousness is only to be found in the Lord Jesus Christ, in what he hath done
and suffered in the flesh (Isa 45:24,25; Phil 3:3-9).

Q. How doth faith find this righteousness in Christ?--A. By the word, which is therefore called
the word of faith, because faith, by that, findeth sufficient righteousness in him (Rom 10:6-9).

Q. How else doth it operate in the soul?--A. It applieth this righteousness to the sinner,
and also helps him to embrace it (Rom 3:21,22; 1 Cor 1:30; Gal 2:20).

Q. How else doth it operate?--A. By this application of Christ, the soul is quickened to life,
spiritualized and made heavenly. For right faith quickeneth to spiritual life, purifies and
sanctifies the heart; and worketh up the man that hath it, into the image of Jesus Christ (Col
2:12,13; Acts 15:9, 26:18; 2 Cor 3:18).

Q. How else doth it operate?--A. It giveth the soul peace with God through Jesus Christ (Rom 5:1).

Q. Surely Christ is of great esteem with them that have this faith in him, is he not?--A. Yes,
Yes. Unto them therefore which believe he is precious, precious in his person, precious in
his undertakings, precious in his Word (1 Peter 2:7, 1:18,19; 2 Peter 1:3,4).

Q. Can these people then, that have this faith, endure to have this Christ spoken against?--A.
O! No! This is a sword in their bones, and a burden that they cannot bear (Psa 42:10; Zeph
3:19).[17]

Q. Doth it not go near them when they see his ways and people discountenanced?--A. Yes; and
they also choose rather to be despised and persecuted with them, than to enjoy the pleasures
of sin for a season (Heb 11:24,25).

Q. And do they live in this world as if he were to come presently?--A. Yes; for his coming
will be glorious and dreadful, full of mercy and judgment.

Of Prayer.

Q. Well, I am glad that you have shewed me that I must worship God by confession of sin, and
faith in Jesus Christ: Is there any other thing a part of the true worship of God?--A. Yes,
several; I will mention only two more at this time.

Q. What are they?--A. Prayer and self-denial.

Q. Is prayer then a part of the worship of God?--A. Yes; a great part of it.

Q. How do you prove that?--A. 'O come let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the
Lord our maker' (Psa 95:6).

Q. Is there another scripture proves it?--A. Yes; 'Then came she and worshiped him, saying,
Lord, help me' (Matt 15:25).

Q. What is prayer?--A. A sincere, sensible, affectionate pouring out of the soul to God in
the name of Christ for what God hath promised (Prov 15:8; Jer 31:18,19; Psa 42:2-5; John 14:13,14;
1 John 5:14).

Q. Doth not every body pray?--A. No; 'The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will
not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts' (Psa 10:4).

Q. What will become of them that do not pray?--A. They do not worship God, and he will destroy
them; 'Pour out thy fury [said the prophet] upon the heathen,--and upon the families that call
not on thy name' (Jer 10:25; Psa 79:6).

Q. But seeing God knoweth what we want, why doth he not give us what we need, without praying?--A.
His counsel and wisdom leadeth him otherwise. 'Thus saith the Lord God, I will yet for this
be enquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them' (Eze 36:37).

Q. Why will God have us pray?--A. Because he would be acknowledged by thee, that he is above
thee, and therefore would have thee come to him as the mean come to the mighty. Thus Abraham
came unto him (Gen 18:27,30).

Q. Is there another reason why I should pray?--A. Yes. For by prayer thou acknowledgest, that
help is not in thine own power (2 Chron 20:6,12).

Q. What reason else have you why I should pray?--A. By prayer thou confessest that help is
only in him (Psa 62:1).

Q. What other reason have you?--A. By prayer thou confessest thou canst not live without his
grace and mercy (Matt 14:30; Heb 4:16).

Q. Are all that pray heard of the Lord?--A. No; 'They looked,' that is prayed, 'but there was
none to save; even unto the Lord, but he answered them not' (2 Sam 22:42).

Q. To what doth God compare the prayers which he refuseth to answer?--A. He compareth them
to the howling of a dog (Hosea 7:14).

Q. Who be they whose prayers God will not answer?--A. Theirs, who think to be heard for their
much speaking, and vain repetition (Matt 6:7).

Q. Is there any other whose prayer God refuseth?--A. Yes; There are that ask and have not,
because what they ask, they would spend upon their lusts (James 4:3).

Q. Is there any other whose prayer God refuseth?--A. Yes; 'If I regard iniquity in my heart,
the Lord will not hear me' (Psa 66:18).[18]

Q. Is the regarding of sin in our heart such a deadly hinderance to prayer?--A. 'Son of man,'
saith God, 'these men have set up their idols in their heart, and have put the stumblingblock
of their iniquity before their face; should I be enquired of at all by them?

Q. Whose prayers be they that God will hear?--A. The prayers of the poor and needy (Psa 34:6;
Isa 41:17).

Q. What do you mean by the poor?--A. Such as have poverty in spirit (Matt 5:3).

Q. Who are they that are poor in spirit?--A. They that are sensible of the want and necessity
of all those things of God, that prepare a man to the kingdom of heaven.

Q. What things are they?--A. Faith, hope, love, joy, peace, a new heart, the Holy Ghost, sanctification.
See James 2:5; 2 Thessalonians 2:16; Ezekiel 36:26,27.

Q. What do you mean by the needy?--A. Those whose souls long and cannot be satisfied without
the enjoyment of these blessed things (Psa 63:1, 119:20).

Q. Will God hear the prayers of such?--A. Yes; 'For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth
the hungry soul with goodness' (Psa 107:9).

Q. How shall I know that I am one of those to whom God will give these things?--A. If thou
seest a beauty in them beyond the beauty of all other things (Psa 110:3).

Q. How else shall I know [that] he heareth me?--A. If thou desirest them for their beauty's
sake (Psa 90:14,17).

Q. How else should I know I shall have them?--A. When thy groanings after them are beyond expression
(Rom 8:26).[19]

Q. How else should I know, and so be encouraged to pray?--A. When thou followest hard after
God in all his ordinances for the obtaining of them (Isa 4:1,3, 64:5).

Q. How else should I know?--A. When thou makest good use of that little thou hast already (Rev
3:8).

Q. Are here all the good signs that my prayers shall be heard?--A. No; there is one more without
which thou shalt never obtain.

Q. Pray what is that?--A. Thou must plead with God, the name and merits of Jesus Christ, for
whose sake only God giveth thee these things. If we ask any thing in his name, he heareth us,
and whatsoever you ask the Father in my name, saith Christ I will do it (John 14:13,14).

Q. Doth God always answer presently?--A. Sometimes he doth, and sometimes he doth not (Isa
30:19; Dan 10:12).

Q. Is not God's deferring, a sign of his anger?--A. Sometimes it is not, and sometimes it is.

Q. When is it no sign of his anger?--A. When we have not wickedly departed from him by our
sins (Luke 18:7).

Q. When is it a sign of his anger?--A. When we have backslidden, when we have not repented
some former miscarriages (Hosea 5:14,15).

Q. Why doth God defer to hear their prayers that hath not wickedly departed from him?--A. He
loves to hear their voice, to try their faith, to see their importunity, and to observe how
they can wrestle with him for a blessing (Cant 2:14; Matt 15:22-28; Luke 11:5-8; Gen 32:25-28).

Q. But is not deferring to answer prayer a great discouragement to praying?--A. Though it is,
because of our unbelief, yet it ought not, because God is faithful. Therefore 'men ought always
to pray, and not to faint' (Luke 18:1-8).[20]

Of Self-Denial.

Q. I am glad you have thus far granted my request: but you told me that there was another part
of God's worship; pray repeat that again?--A. It is self-denial.

Q. Now I remember it well; pray how do you prove that self-denial is called a part of God's
worship?--A. It is said of Abraham, that when he went to offer up his son Isaac upon the altar
for a burnt-offering, which was to him a very great part of self-denial, that he counted that
act of his worshipping God.

Q. Will you be pleased to read the text?--A. Yes; 'And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide
ye here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship,' &c. This now was when
he was a-going to slay Isaac (Gen 22:5).

Q. What is self-denial?--A. It is for a man to forsake his ALL, for the sake of Jesus Christ.

Q. Will you prove this by a scripture or two?--A. Yes; 'Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh
not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple' (Luke 14:33).

Q. Indeed this is a full place, can you give me one more?--A. Yes; 'What things were gain to
me, those I counted loss for Christ.

Q. These two are indeed a sufficient answer to my question; but pray will you now give me some
particular instances of the self-denial of them that have heretofore been the followers of
Christ?--A. Yes; Abel denied himself to the losing of his blood (Gen 4:8). Abraham denied himself
to the losing of his country and his father's house (Gen 12:1-4). Moses denied himself of a
crown and a kingdom, and of ease and tranquility (Heb 11:24-27). Joseph denied himself of fleshly
lusts (Gen 39:7-9).

Q. But these men each of them denied themselves but of some things, did they?--A. You see Abel
lost all, his blood and all; Abraham lost his country to the hazard of his life (Gen 12:13).
So did Moses in leaving the crown and kingdom (Heb 11:27). And Joseph in denying his mistress
(Gen 39:10-15).

Q. Will you discourse a little particularly of self-denial?--A. With all my heart.

Q. First then, pray in what spirit must this self-denial be performed?--A. It must be done
in the spirit of faith, of love, and of a sound mind. Otherwise, if a man should sell all that
he hath and give to the poor, and his body to be burnt besides, it would profit him nothing
(1 Cor 13:1-3).

Q. Who are like to miscarry here?--A. They whose ends in self-denial are not according to the
proposals of the gospel.

Q. Who are they?--A. They that suffer through strife and vain-glory; or thus, they who seek
in their sufferings the praise of men more than the glory of Christ, and profit of their neighbour.

Q. Who else are like to miscarry here?--A. They that have designs like Ziba to ingratiate themselves
by their pretended self-denial into the affections of the godly, and to enrich themselves by
this means (2 Sam 16:1-4).

Q. Are there any other like to miscarry here?--A. Yes. They that by denying themselves think
with the Pharisee, to make themselves stand more righteous in God's eyes than others (Luke
18:11,12).

Q. Who else are in danger of miscarrying here?--A. They who have fainted in their works, they
whose self-denial hath at last been overcome by self-love (Gal 3:4, 6:9).

Q. Shall I propound a few more questions?--A. If you please.

Q. What then if a man promiseth to deny himself hereafter and not now, is not this one step
to this kind of worship?--A. No, by no means; for the reason why this man refuseth to deny
himself now, is because his heart at present sticks closer to his lusts and the world, than
to God and Christ.[21]

Q. Can you give me a Scripture instance to make this out?--A. Yes; Esau never intended for
ever to part with the blessing, he intended to have it hereafter; but God counted his not choosing
of it at present, a despising of it, and a preferring of his lusts before it: and therefore
when he would, God would not, but reject both him and his tears (Gen 25:30-34; Heb 12:14-16).

Q. How and if a man shall say thus, I am willing to deny myself in many things, though he cannot
deny himself in all, is not this one step in this part of this worship of God?--A. No, in no
wise; for this man doth, just like Saul, he will slay a part, and will keep a part alive; the
kingdom must be taken from him also (1 Sam 15).

Q. How if a man has been willing to lose all that he hath, but is not now, will not God accept
of his willingness in time past, though he be otherwise now?--A. No; for the true disciple
must deny himself daily, take up his cross daily, and go after Jesus Christ (Luke 9:23).

Q. But how if a man carrieth it well outwardly, so that he doth not dishonour the gospel before
men, may not this be counted self-denial?--A. No, if he be not right at heart; for though man
looketh on the outward appearance, God looketh at the heart (1 Sam 16:7).

Q. But if I be afraid my heart may deceive me in this great work, if hard things come upon
me hereafter, is there no way to find out whether it will deceive me then or no?--A. I will
give you a few answers to this question, and will shew you first whose heart is like to deceive
him in this work.

Q. Will you befriend me so much?--A. Yes. 1. He that makes not daily conscience of self-denial,
is very unlike to abide a disciple for times to come, if difficult. Judas did not deny himself
daily, and therefore fell when the temptation came (John 12:6).

Q. Will you give me another sign?--A. Yes. He that indulgeth any one secret lust under a profession,
is not like to deny himself in all things for Christ.

Q. Who are they that indulge their lusts?--A. They that make provision for them, either in
apparel, or diet, or otherwise (Rom 13:12-14; Isa 3:6-24; Amos 6:3-6).

Q. Who else do so?--A. They that excuse their sins, and keep them disguised that they may not
be reprehended, as Saul did, &c. (1 Sam 15:18-22).

Q. Who else are they that indulge their lusts?--A. They that heap up to themselves such teachers
as favour their lusts (2 Tim 4:3,4; Isa 30:10).

Q. Who else do indulge their sins?--A. They that choose rather to walk by the imperfect lives
of professors than by the holy Word of God: or thus, they that make the miscarriages of some
good men an encouragement unto themselves to forbear to be exact in self-denial, these eat
up the sins of God's people as men eat bread (Hosea 4:7-9).

Q. Will you now shew me who are like to do this part of God's worship acceptably?--A. Yes;
he whose heart is set against sin as sin, is like to deny himself acceptably (Rom 7:13,14).

Q. Who else?--A. He that hath the sense and savour of forgiveness of sins upon his heart (2
Cor 5:14).

Q. Who else is like to deny himself well for Christ?--A. He that seeth a greater treasure in
self-denial, than in self-seeking (2 Cor 12:9-11; Heb 11:24-26).

Q. Are there none other signs of one that is like to do this part of God's worship acceptably?--A.
Yes; he that takes up his cross daily, and makes Christ's doctrine his example (Luke 6:47,48;
John 12:25,26).

Q. But how do you discover a man to be such a one?--A. He keepeth this heart with all diligence,
he had rather die than sin; ill carriages of professors break his heart, nothing is so dear
to him as the glory of Christ (Prov 4:23; Num 11:15; Phil 3:18; Acts 20:24).[22]

Q. Pray, can yo give me some motive to self-denial?--A. Yes; the Lord Jesus denied himself
for thee; what sayest thou to that?

Q. Wherein did Christ deny himself for me?--A. He left his heaven for thee, he denied for thy
sake to have so much of this world as hath a fox or a bird, and he spilt his most precious
blood for thee (John 6:38; Luke 9:58; 2 Cor 8:9; Rev 1:5).

Q. But why doth God require self-denial of them that will be saved?--A. God doth not require
self-denial as the means to obtain salvation, but hath laid it down as a proof of the truth
of a man's affections to God and Christ.

Q. How is self-denial a proof of the truth of a man's affections to God?--A. In that for the
sake of his service, he leaveth all his enjoyments in this world. Thus he proved Abraham's
affections (Gen 22:12). Thus he proved Peter's affections (Matt 4:18-22) and thus he proved
their affection that you read of in the gospel (Luke 9:57-73).

Q. What reason else can you produce why God requireth self-denial?--A. Self-denial is one of
the distinguishing characters by which true Christians are manifested from the feigned ones:
for those that are feigned, flatter God with their mouths, but their hearts seek themselves;
but the sincere, for the love that he hath to Christ, forsaketh all that he hath for his sake
(Psa 78:36,37; Eze 33:31,32).[23]

Q. Is there yet another reason why God requireth self-denial of them that profess his name?--A.
Yes; because by self-denial the power and goodness of the truths of God are made manifest to
the incredulous world. For they cannot see but by the self-denial of God's people, that there
is such power, glory, goodness, and desirableness in God's truth as indeed there is (Dan 3:16,28;
Phil 1:12,13).

Q. Have you another reason why God requireth self-denial?--A. Yes; because self-denial prepareth
a man, though not for the pardon of his sin, yet for that far more exceeding and eternal weight
of glory, that is laid up only for them that deny all that they have for the Lord Jesus, his
name, and cause in this world (2 Cor 4:8-10,17; 2 Thess 1:5,6).

Q. Before you conclude, will you give me a few instances of the severity of God's hand upon
some professors, that have not denied themselves when called thereto by him?--A. Yes, willingly;
Lot's wife for but looking behind her towards Sodom, when God called her from it, was stricken
from heaven, and turned into a pillar of salt; therefore remember Lot's wife (Gen 19:17,26;
Luke 17:31,32).

Q. Can you give me another instance?--A. Yes; Esau for not denying himself of one morsel of
meat was denied a share in the blessing, and could never obtain it after, though he sought
it carefully with tears (Gen 25:32-34; Heb 12:16,17).

Q. Have you at hand another instance?--A. Yes; Judas for not denying himself, lost Christ,
his soul, and heaven: and is continued the great object of God's wrath among all damned souls
(John 12:5,6; Luke 22:3-6; Matt 26:14-16; Acts 1:25).

Q. Will you give me one more instance, and so conclude?--A. Yes; Ananias and Sapphira his wife,
did for the want of self-denial, pull upon themselves such wrath of God, that he slew them,
while they stood in the midst before the apostles (Acts 5:1-11).

The Conclusion.

Before I wind up this discourse, I would lay down these few things for you to consider of,
and meditate upon.

I. Consider, that seeing every one by nature are accounted sinners; it is no matter whether
thy actual sins be little or great, few or many, thy sinful nature hath already lain thee under
the curse of the law.

II. Consider, That therefore thou hast already ground for humiliation, sins to repent of, wrath
to fly from, or a soul to be damned.

III. Consider, That time stays not for thee, and also that as time goes, sin increaseth; so
that at last the end of thy time, and the completing of thy sin, are like to come upon thee
in one moment.

IV. Bring thy last day often to thy bedside, and ask thy heart, if this morning thou wast to
die, if thou be ready to die or no.

V. Know it is a sad thing to lie a dying, and to be afraid to die; to lie a dying and not to
know whither thou art going; to lie a dying, and not to know whether good angels or bad must
conduct thee out of this miserable world.

VI. Be often remembering what a blessed thing it is to be saved, to go to heaven, to be made
like angels, and to dwell with God and Christ to all eternity.

VII. Consider how sweet the thought of salvation will be to thee when thou seest thyself in
heaven, whilst others are roaring in hell.[24]

The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit.

FOOTNOTES:

1. How awful the thought that persons should sit under so faithful and searching a ministry,
and still remain in their sins. Is it so to the present day under a faithful ministry? then,
Oh my soul, how is it with thee?--Ed.

2. A painful recollection of his long and cruel imprisonment for conscience sake led Bunyan
to feel the value of liberty. Still he forcibly appeals to his reader on the necessity of private
judgment in divine things. His twelve years' converse with God and his word in prison had confirmed
his principles; while divine love had swallowed up the fear of man.--Ed.

3. Faith is the only principle that, by the power of the Holy Ghost, can purify the heart.
It leads the soul into holy communion with a pure and holy God, and thus cleanses the heart.--Ed.

4. All mankind, as born into the world, show, as soon as the mental powers open, aversion to
God, to his purity, his law, his gospel; the doctrines of grace and the work of the Spirit
upon the heart. A solemn proof of the universal taint given by original sin.--Ed.

5. By the word 'public' is to be understood a federal head, or the representative of all his
posterity. Adam's faith can only save his own soul; his sin taints all his seed.--Ed.

6. A state of hostility to God plunges the soul into mental darkness, rage, horror, anguish,
despair, and endless and unutterable misery and woe. How ought we to love the Lord Jesus for
his GREAT salvation!--Ed.

7. It is a very modern custom to have the place of execution within a city--formerly they were
always without--their position being still noted by the name 'Gallow Knowe,' the knoll or mound
of the gallows; 'Gallowgate,' the gate or way leading to the gallows; and so on. Happily for
the well-being of society, these exhibitions are less frequent than they formerly were.

8. 'That servant which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according
to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes' (Luke 12:47)--Ed.

9. Which is the greatest sinner; he who invents scandal, or he who encourages the inventor
to retail it? If there were no receivers, there would be no thieves.--Ed.

10. The terms in which this question is put, shows that the little children here intended were
capable of repentance and faith. That Bunyan believed, as Toplady did, the salvation of all
that die in infancy by the atonement of Christ, there can be no doubt. 'In my remarks on Dr.
Rowell, I testified my firm belief that the souls of all departed infants are with God in glory.'
See the Introduction to Toplady's Historic Proof.--Ed.

11. The knowledge of ourselves as vile and abominable, hopeless and helpless, is an essential
step towards our recovery. The next step that leads to heaven, and lands us there, is to 'know
the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom he has sent,' as revealed in the word of truth. 'This
is eternal life.'--Ed.

12. The unrenewed heart is the sink of sin, the fountain of pollution. 'Out of the heart proceeds
evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies; these
defile a man.' Create in us a clean heart, O God!--Ed.

13. No poor soul was more severely visited with these feelings than Bunyan.

14. How pointed and forcible is this illustration of the absurdity of neglecting the Physician
of souls, when the malady of sin is felt. The more desperate our disease, the faster we should
fly to Christ for cure.--Ed.

15. The awful condition of the unconverted consists in their being in a state of separation
from God, insensible of that dismal state, utterly unable to extricate themselves out of it,
and loathsome to God while they continue in it. Reader, do you recollect when this was your
state; if not, what hope is there that you have passed from death unto life?--Ed.

16. The operation of faith is by steps.

17.

18. 'The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord; but the prayer of the upright
is his delight. He loveth him that followeth after righteousness' (Prov 15:8,9). That our prayers
may be heard, the heart should be right with God, and our souls at peace with him through the
Son of his love.--Mason.--Ed.

19. These are parts of a Christian's experience, admirably illustrated in that extraordinary
book by Bunyan, 'Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners.'--Ed.

20. All-prevailing prayers must be offered up through the mediation of Christ, in obedience
to God's command, with an eye to his glory, and for what is agreeable to his will and heavenly
wisdom to grant. 'Lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting' (1 Tim 2:8). God's service
must be in faith, love, and purity of heart.--Ryland.--Ed.

21. How debased is the human heart, to delay one moment in giving up its poor all for Christ.
In him dwells the fulness of the Godhead; he has unsearchable riches of wisdom and knowledge
to bestow; all-sufficient grace and strength, to enable us to do and suffer his will; and everlasting
glory at the close of our pilgrimage.--Ed.

22. No tongue can utter, or heart conceive, the unspeakable reward which an unwearied, unfainting
diligence in well-doing, attends the humble believer; it begins in this world, and is consummated
in endless glory.--Ed.

23. Christian, you are not your own, you are bought with a price far above all the treasures
of the earth. You must not do as you please, but study to do the will of your heavenly Father.
The man who is bent upon doing his own will, renounces the name of Christian. REBEL against
God is inscribed upon all who do not his will.--Ed.

24. How blessed is the hope of the Christian; full of life, power, and much assurance. The
salvation by Christ is infinitely precious; it redeems the souls from all possible misery,
and introduces it to the favour, love, and protection of almighty God, who will save it from
the ruins of time, till possessed of the riches of eternity.--Ed.

***

SEASONABLE COUNSEL: OR, ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

THIS valuable treatise was first published in a pocket volume in 1684, and has only been reprinted
in Whitfield's edition of Bunyan's works, 2 vols. folio, 1767.

No man could have been better qualified to give advice to sufferers for righteousness' sake,
than John Bunyan: and this work is exclusively devoted to that object. Shut up in a noisome
jail, under the iron hand of persecution, for nearly thirteen years, in the constant fear of
being hanged as a malefactor, for refusing conformity to the national liturgy, he well knew
what sufferings were, and equally well did he know the sources of consolation. It was wisely
ordered by Divine Providence, that before the king pardoned him, he had a legal return under
the hand and seal of the sheriff of Bedfordshire, certifying the reasons of this frightful
imprisonment. This is entered in the minutes of the Privy Council on the 8th and 15th of May,
1672; and it proves that he was thus cruelly punished for "being at conventicles for nonconformity"
and for no other cause. In this "Advice" we find his opinion on the origin of persecution--the
instruments--the motives--its cruelty--with cautions, counsels, and support to the persecuted.
He considers persecution a strange anomaly,--"The reason is that Christianity is a harmless
thing--that be it never so openly professed it hurts no man." Simple-hearted, honest John,
thou dreamest. What wouldest thou have thought of a system by which all would have been taught
to tag their laces and mend their own pots and kettles? What would have become of thy trade
as a brazier? Christianity teaches all mankind not to trust in those empirics who profess to
cure souls for Peter's pence, tithes, mortuaries, and profits; but to go by themselves to the
Great Physician, and he will pour in his wine and oil, his infallible remedies for a sin-sick
soul, without money and without price. To Bunyan this was not only harmless to others, but
the most boundless mercy that God could bestow upon man. What could be more destructive to
the hierarchy of popes, cardinals, and papal nuncios of the Latin, with the patriarchs, archimandrites,
and papas of the Greek churches? A system by which all their services are dispensed with, and
priestly and prelatic pride is leveled with the dust. Can we wonder that those who preached
the holy, humbling, self-denying doctrines of the cross, were persecuted to the death? Bunyan's
opinion is, that Satan is the author of persecution, by which he intended to root out Christianity.
The whirlwind and the tempest drives away those who are not rooted and grounded in the faith,
some of whom may have stood like stately cedars until the trying time of trial came. But the
humble Christian in such a season takes deeper root--a stronger grasp. Faith, his anchor, is
sure and steadfast; it enters eternity and heaven, where Satan can find no entrance to disturb
its hold. In persecution, men are but the devil's tools, and little think that they are doing
his drudgery.

The man of God declares the truth in plain terms, "No one is a Christian except he is born
of God by the anointing of the Holy One." Carnal men cannot endure this; and then "the game
begins," how such troublesome fellows may be put out of the way, and their families be robbed
of their possessions to enrich the persecutors. "The holy places, vestures, gestures--the shows
and outward greatness of false religion, are in danger." Their sumptuous ceremonies, glorious
ornaments, new-fashioned carriages,1 "will fall before the simplicity and majesty of truth."
The Christian falls out with sin at home, and then with sinful ceremonies in divine worship.
With him all that is not prescribed in the word of God is forbidden. Sentiments like these
are a blow at the root of superstition with all its fraudful emoluments. Hence the storms of
persecution which fall on the faithful followers of Christ. Antichrist declares the excellency
of human inventions to supply what he considers defects in God's system.

Such is the mad folly of the human heart! Dust and ashes find fault with a system which is
the perfection of wisdom, mercy, and love. And such their infatuation, that "none must be suffered
to live and breathe that refuseth conformity thereto." Mr. Bunyan's cautions and counsels are
full of peace--"submission to the powers that be." Pray for the persecutor--return good for
his evil. He is in the hand of God, who will soon level him with the dust, and call his soul
to solemn judgment. Although the sufferer's cause is good, do not run yourself into trouble--Christ
withdrew himself--Paul escaped by being lowered down the city wall in a basket. If they persecute
you in one city, flee to another. "A minister can quickly pack up and carry his religion with
him, and offer what he knows of his God to another people." God is the support of his persecuted
ones. "His power in holding up some, his wrath in leaving of others; his making of shrubs to
stand, and his suffering of cedars to fall; his infatuating of the counsels of men, and his
making of the devil to outwit himself; his giving of his presence to his people, and his leaving
of his foes in the dark; his discovering the uprightness of the hearts of his sanctified ones,
and laying open the hypocrisy of others, is a working of spiritual wonders in the day of his
wrath, and of the whirlwind and storm." "Alas! we have need of these bitter pills at which
we so much winch and shuck. The physician has us in hand. May God by these try and judge us
as he judges his saints, that we may not be condemned with the world." Such were the feelings
of John Bunyan after his long sufferings; they are the fruits of a sanctified mind. Reader,
great are our mercies--the arm of the persecutor is paralysed by the extension of the knowledge
of Christ. Still we have to pass through taunts and revilings, and sometimes the loss of goods;
but we are saved from those awful trials through which our pilgrim forefathers passed. May
our mercies be sanctified, and may grace be bestowed upon us in rich abundance, to enable us
to pity and forgive those sects who, in a bye-gone age, were the tools of Satan, and whose
habitations were full of cruelty.--GEO. OFFOR.

TO THE CHRISTIAN READER. BELOVED, I thought it convenient, since many at this day are exposed
to sufferings, to give my advice touching that to thee. Namely, that thou wouldest take heed
to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, and not suffer thyself to be entangled in those snares
that God hath suffered to be laid in the world for some. Beware of "men" in the counsel of
Christ "for they will deliver you up" (Matt 10:17). Keep thou therefore within the bounds of
uprightness and integrity towards both God and man: for that will fortify, that will preserve
thee, if not from, yet under the rage of men, in a comfortable and quiet frame of heart. Wherefore
do that, and that only, that will justify thy innocency, and that will help thee, not with
forced speech, but with good conscience, when oppressed, to make thy appeals to God, and to
the consciences of all men.

This is the advice that, I thank God, I have taken myself: for I find that there is nothing,
next to God and his grace by Christ, that can stand one in such stead, as will a good and harmless
conscience.2

I hope I can say that God has made me a Christian: and a Christian must be a harmless man,
and to that end, must embrace nothing but harmless principles. A Christian's business, as a
Christian, is to believe in Jesus Christ, and in God the Father by him; and to seek the good
of all about him, according as his place, state and capacity in this world will admit, not
meddling with other men's matters, but ever following that which is good. A Christian is a
child of the kingdom of God, and that kingdom, take it as it begins in grace, or as it is perfected
in glory, is not of this world but of that which is to come: and though men of old, as some
may now, be afraid of that kingdom: yet that kingdom will hurt no man, neither with its principles,
nor by itself. To instance somewhat, Faith in Christ: what harm can that do? A life regulated
by a moral law, what hurt is in that? Rejoicing in spirit for the hope of the life to come
by Christ, who will that harm? Nor is the instituted worship of our Lord of any evil tendency,
Christianity teaches us also to do our enemies good, to "Bless them that hate us, and to pray
for them that despitefully use us and persecute us," and what evil can be in that? This is
the sum of the Christian religion, as by the word may be plainly made appear: wherefore I counsel
thee to keep close to these things, and touch with nothing that jostleth therewith.

Nor do thou marvel, thou living thus, if some should be so foolish as to seek thy hurt, and
to afflict thee, because thy works are good (1 John 3:12,13). For there is need that thou shouldest
at sometimes be in manifold temptations, thy good and innocent life notwithstanding (1 Peter
1:6). For, to omit other things, there are some of the graces of God that are in thee, that
as to some of their acts, cannot shew themselves, nor their excellency, nor their power, nor
what they can do: but as thou art in a suffering state. Faith and patience, in persecution,
has that to do, that to shew, and that to perform, that cannot be done, shewed, nor performed
any where else but there. There is also a patience of hope; a rejoicing in hope, when we are
in tribulation, that is, over and above that which we have when we are at ease and quiet. That
also that all graces can endure, and triumph over, shall not be known, but when, and as we
are in a state of affliction. Now these acts of our graces are of that worth and esteem with
God, also he so much delighteth in them: that occasion through his righteous judgment, must
be ministered for them to shew their beauty, and what bravery 3 there is in them.

It is also to be considered that those acts of our graces, that cannot be put forth, or shew
themselves in their splendour, but when we Christianly suffer, will yield such fruit to those
whose trials call them to exercise, that will, in the day of God, abound to their comfort,
and tend to their perfection in glory (1 Peter 1:7; 2 Cor 4:17).

Why then should we think that our innocent lives will exempt us from sufferings, or that troubles
shall do us such harm? For verily it is for our present and future good that our God doth send
them upon us. I count therefore, that such things are necessary for the health of our souls,
as bodily4 pains and labour are for [the health of] the body. People that live high, and in
idleness, bring diseases upon the body: and they that live in all fullness of gospel-ordinances,
and are not exercised with trials, grow gross, are diseased and full of bad humours in their
souls. And though this may to some seem strange: yet our day has given us such an experimental
proof of the truth thereof, as has not been known for some ages past.

Alas! we have need of those bitter pills, at which we so winch and shuck:5 and it will be well
if at last we be purged as we should thereby. I am sure we are but little the better as yet,
though the physician has had us so long in hand. Some bad humours may possibly ere long be
driven out: but at present the disease is so high, that it makes some professors fear more
a consumption will be made in their purses by these doses, than they desire to be made better
in their souls thereby. I see that I still have need of these trials; and if God will by these
judge me as he judges his saints, that I may not be condemned with the world, I will cry, Grace,
grace for ever. The consideration also that we have deserved these things, much6 silences me
as to what may yet happen unto me. I say, to think that we have deserved them of God, though
against men we have done nothing, makes me lay my hand upon my mouth, and causes me to hold
my tongue. Shall we deserve correction? And be angry because we have it! Or shall it come to
save us? and shall we be offended with the hand that brings it! Our sickness is so great that
our enemies take notice of it; let them know too that we also take our purges patiently. We
are willing to pay for those potions that are given us for the health of our body, how sick
soever they make us: and if God will have us pay too for that which is to better our souls,
why should we grudge thereat? Those that bring us these medicines have little enough for their
pains: for my part, I profess, I would not for a great deal, be bound, for their wages, to
do their work. True, physicians are for the most part chargeable, and the niggards are too
loth to part with their money to them: but when necessity says they must either take physic,
or die: of two evils they desire to choose the least. Why, affliction is better than sin, and
if God sends the one to cleanse us from the other, let us thank him, and be also content to
pay the messenger.

And thou that art so loth to pay for thy sinning, and for the means that puts thee upon that
exercise of thy graces, as will be for thy good hereafter: take heed of tempting of God lest
he doubleth this potion unto thee. The child, by eating of raw fruit, stands in need of physic,
but the child of a childish humour refuseth to take the potion, what follows but a doubling
of the affliction, to wit, frowns, chides, and further threatenings and a forcing of the bitter
pills upon him. But let me, to persuade thee to lie down and take thy potion, tell thee, it
is of absolute necessity, to wit, for thy spiritual and internal health. For, First, Is it
better that thou receive judgment in this world, or that thou stay for it to be condemned with
the ungodly in the next? Second, Is it better that thou shouldest, as to some acts of thy graces,
be foreign, and a stranger, and consequently that thou shouldest lose that far more exceeding,
and eternal weight of glory that is prepared as the reward thereof? or that thou shouldest
receive it at the hand of God, when the day shall come that every man shall have praise of
him for their doings? Third, And I say again, since chastisements are a sign of sonship, a
token of love: and the contrary a sign of bastardy, and a token of hatred (Heb 12:6-8; Hosea
4:14). Is it not better that we bear those tokens and marks in our flesh that bespeak us to
belong to Christ, than those that declare us to be none of his? I am not for running myself
into sufferings, but if godliness will expose me to them, the Lord God make me more godly still:
for I believe there is a world to come. But, Christian reader, I would not detain thee from
a sight of those sheets in thy hand: only let me beg of thee, that thou wilt not be offended
either with God, or men, if the cross is laid heavy upon thee. Not with God, for he doth nothing
without a cause, nor with men, for they are the hand of God: and will they, nill they; 7 they
are the servants of God to thee for good (Psa 17:14; Jer 24:5). Take therefore what comes to
thee from God by them, thankfully. If the messenger that brings it is glad that it is in his
power to do thee hurt, and to afflict thee; if he skips for joy at thy calamity: be sorry for
him; pity him, and pray to thy Father for him: he is ignorant and understandeth not the judgment
of thy God, yea he sheweth by this his behavior, that though he, as God's ordinance, serveth
thee by afflicting of thee: yet means he nothing less than to destroy thee: by the which also
he prognosticates before thee that he is working out his own damnation by doing of thee good.
Lay therefore the woeful state of such to heart, and render him that which is good for his
evil; and love for his hatred to thee; then shalt thou shew that thou art acted by a spirit
of holiness, and art like thy heavenly Father. And be it so, that thy pity and prayers can
do such an one no good, yet they must light some where, or return again, as ships come loaden
from the Indies, full of blessings into thine own bosom.

And besides all this, is there nothing in dark providences, for the sake of the sight and observation
of which, such a day may be rendered lovely, when it is upon us? Is there nothing of God, of
his wisdom and power and goodness to be seen in thunder, and lightning, in hailstones? in storms?
and darkness and tempests? Why then is it said, he "hath his way in the whirlwind and in the
storm" (Nahum 1:3). And why have God's servants of old made such notes, and observed from them
such excellent and wonderful things. There is that of God to be seen in such a day as cannot
be seen in another. These days! these days are the days that do most aptly give an occasion
to Christians, of any, to take the exactest measures and scantlings of ourselves. We are apt
to overshoot, in days that are calm, and to think ourselves far higher, and more strong than
we find we be, when the trying day is upon us. The mouth of Gaal and the boasts of Peter were
great and high before the trial came, but when that came, they found themselves to fall far
short of the courage they thought they had (Judg 9:38). We also, before the temptation comes,
think we can walk upon the sea, but when the winds blow, we feel ourselves begin to sink. Hence
such a time is rightly said to be a time to try us, or to find out what we are, and is there
no good in this? Is it not this that rightly rectifies our judgment about ourselves, that makes
us to know ourselves, that tends to cut off those superfluous sprigs of pride and self-conceitedness,
wherewith we are subject to be overcome? Is not such a day, the day that bends us, humbleth
us, and that makes us bow before God, for our faults committed in our prosperity? and yet doth
it yield no good unto us? we cold not live without such turnings of the hand of God upon us.
We should be overgrown with flesh, if we had not our seasonable winters. It is said that in
some countries trees will grow, but will bear no fruit, because there is no winter there. The
Lord bless all seasons to his people, and help them rightly to behave themselves, under all
the times that go over them. Farewell. I am thine to serve thee in the gospel, JOHN BUNYAN.

ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.

This epistle was written to saints in affliction, specially those of the circumcision, for
whom this Peter was an apostle. And it was written to them to counsel, and comfort them in
their affliction. To counsel them as to the cause, for which they were in afflictions, and
as to the right management of themselves, and their cause, under their affliction. To comfort
them also both with respect to their present help from God, and also with reference to the
reward that (they faithfully continuing to the end) should of God be bestowed upon them: all
which we shall have occasion, more distinctly, to handle in this following discourse. The text
is a conclusion, drawn from the counsel and comfort which the apostle had afore given them
in their suffering state. As who should say, my brethren, as you are now afflicted, so sufferings
are needful for you, and therefore profitable and advantageous: wherefore be content to bear
them. And that you may indeed bear them with such Christian contentedness, and patience as
becomes you; commit the keeping of your souls to your God as unto a faithful Creator. "Let
them that suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to him [in
well doing,] as unto a faithful Creator."

In this conclusion, therefore, we have three things very fit for sufferers to concern themselves
with. FIRST, A direction to a duty of absolute necessity. SECOND, A description of the persons,
who are unto this, so necessary a duty, directed. THIRD, An insinuation of the good effect
that will certainly follow to those that after a due manner shall take this blessed advice.

The duty so absolutely necessary is, that sufferers "commit the keeping of their souls to God."
The sufferers here intended, are those "that suffer according to the will of God." The good
insinuated, that will be the effect of our true doing of this, is, we shall find God "a faithful
Creator." [FIRST--THE DUTY TO WHICH SUFFERERS ARE DIRECTED.] We will first begin with the duty,
that sufferers are here directed to, namely, the committing of their souls to God. "Let them--commit
the keeping of their souls to him, in well doing."

And I find two things in it that first call for explaining before I proceed. 1. What we must
here understand by "the soul." 2. What by "committing" the soul to God.

1. For the first: "The soul," here, is to be taken for that most excellent part of man, that
dwelleth in the body; that immortal, spiritual substance, that is, and will be capable of life,
and motion, of sense and reason; yea, that will abide a rational being, when the body is returned
to the dust as it was. This is that great thing, that our Lord Jesus intends, when he bids
his disciples in a day of trial, fear him that can destroy both body and soul in hell (Luke
12:5). That great thing, I say, that he there cautions them to take care of. According to Peter
here, "Let them commit the keeping of their soul to him in well doing."

2. Now to "commit" this soul to God, is to carry it to him, to lift it to him, upon my bended
knees, and to pray him for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, to take it into his holy care, and
to let it be under his keeping. Also, that he will please to deliver it from all those snares
that are laid for it, betwixt this and the next world, and that he will see that it be forthcoming,
safe and sound, at the great and terrible judgment, notwithstanding so many have engaged themselves
against it. Thus David committed his soul to God, when he said "Arise, O Lord, disappoint him,
cast him down: deliver my soul, O Lord, from the wicked, which is thy sword" (Psa 17:13). And
again, "Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me: O Lord, make hast to help me. Let them be ashamed
and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it" (Psa 40:13,14).

Thus, I have shewed you what the soul is, and what it is to commit the soul to God. This then
is the duty that the apostle here exhorteth the sufferers to, namely, to carry their soul to
God, and leave it with him while they engage for his name in the world. Now from the apostle's
exhortation to this great duty, I will draw these following conclusions.

Conclusion First, That when persecution is raised against a people, there is a design laid
for the ruin of those people's souls. This, I say, doth naturally follow from the exhortation.
Why else, need they to commit the keeping of their souls to God. For by this word, "Unto God
to keep them," is suggested; there is that would destroy them, and that therefore persecution
is raised against them. I am not so uncharitable, as to think, that persecuting men design
this. 8But I verily believe that the devil doth design this, when he stirs them up to so sorry
a work.

Alas! men in their acts of this nature, have designs that are lower, and of a more inferior
rank. Some of them look no higher than revenge upon the carcass; than the spoiling of their
neighbour of his estate, liberty, or life; than the greatening of themselves in this world,
by the ruins of those that they have power to spoil.

Ay! But Satan will not be put off thus: it is not a bag of money, or the punishing of the carcass
of such a people, that will please or satisfy him. It is the soul that he aims at; the ruin
of the precious soul that he hath bent himself to bring to pass. It is this therefore that
Peter here hath his heart concerned with. As, who should say, My brethren, are you troubled
and persecuted for your faith? look to it, the hand of Satan is in this thing, and whatever
men drive at by doing as they do, the devil designs no less than the damnation of your souls.
Ware hawk, saith the falconer, when the dogs are coming near her: especially if she be too
much minding of her belly, and too forgetful of what the nature of the dog is. Beware Christian,
take heed Christian; the devil is desirous to have thee. And who could better give this exhortation
than could Peter himself. Who for not taking heed as to this very thing, had like by the devil
to have been swallowed up alive: as is manifest to them that heedfully read, and consider how
far he was gone, when that persecution was raised against his Master (Luke 22). When a tyrant
goes to dispossess a neighbouring prince of what is lawfully his own: the men that he employeth
at arms to overcome, and get the land, they fight for half-crowns, and the like, and are content
with their wages: But the tyrant is for the kingdom, nothing will serve him but the kingdom.9
This is the case: Men when they persecute, are for the stuff, but the devil is for the soul,
nor will any thing less than that satisfy him. Let him then that is a sufferer "commit the
keeping of his soul to God:" lest stuff, and soul, and all be lost at once.

Conclusion Second, A second conclusion that followeth upon these words, is this: That sufferers,
if they have not a care, may be too negligent as to the securing of their souls with God, even
when persecution is upon them. For these words, as they are an instruction, so they are an
awakening instruction; they call as to people in danger; as to people, not so aware of the
danger; or as unto a people that forget, too much, that their souls, and the ruin of them,
are sought after by Satan, when trouble attends them for the gospel sake. As, who should say,
when troubles are upon you for the gospel's sake, then take heed that you forget not to commit
your souls to the keeping of God. We are naturally apt with that good man Gideon, to be threshing
out our wheat, that we may hide it from the Midianites (Judg 6:11). But we are not so naturally
apt to be busying ourselves to secure our souls with God. The reason is, for that we are more
flesh than spirit, and because the voice of the world makes a bigger sound in our carnal mind,
than the word of God doth. Wherefore Peter, here, calls upon us as upon men of forgetful minds,
saying, Let them that suffer according to the will of God, have a care of their souls, and
take heed, that the fears of the loss of a little of this world, do not make them forget the
fear of the losing of their souls. That sufferers are subject to this, may appear by the stir
and bustle that at such a time they make to lock all up safe that the hand of man can reach,10
while they are cold, chill, remiss, and too indifferent about the committing of their soul
to God to keep it. This is seen also, in that many, in a time of trouble for their profession,
will study more to deceive themselves by a change of notions, by labouring to persuade their
consciences to admit them to walk more at large, by hearkening to opinions that please and
gratify the flesh, by adhering to bad examples, and taking evil counsels, than they will to
make straight steps for their feet: and to commit the keeping of their souls to God. What shall
I say, have there not been many, that so long as peace has lasted, have been great swaggerers
for religion, who yet so soon as the sun has waxed warm, have flagged, have been discontented,
offended, and turned away from him that speaketh from heaven? All which is because men are
naturally apt to be more concerned for their goods, carnal peace, and a temporal life, than
they are about securing of their souls with God. Wherefore I say, these words are spoken to
awaken us to the consideration of soul-concerns, and how that should be safely lodged under
the care, protection, and mercy of God, by our committing of it to him, for that purpose, by
Jesus Christ our Lord.

Conclusion Third, Another conclusion that followeth upon this exhortation, is this: That persecution
doth, sometimes, so hotly follow God's people, as to leave them nothing but a soul to care
for. They have had no house, no land, no money, no goods, no life, no liberty, left them to
care for. ALL IS GONE BUT THE SOUL. Goods have been confiscated, liberty has been in irons,
the life condemned, the neck in a halter, or the body in the fire. So then all, to such, has
been gone, and they have had nothing left them to care for, but their soul. "Let them commit
the keeping of their soul to God." This conclusion, I say, doth naturally flow from the words.
For that the apostle here doth make mention only of the soul, as of that which is left, as
of that which yet remains to the sufferer of all that ever he had. Thus they served Christ;
they left him nothing but his soul to care for. Thus they served Stephen; they left him nothing
but his soul to care for, and they both cared for that, "Father, into thy hands I commend my
spirit," said Jesus (Luke 23:46). And, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit," said Stephen (Acts
7:59). As for all other things, they were gone. They parted the very clothes of Christ among
themselves before his face, even while he did hang pouring out his life before them, upon the
tree. "They parted my garments among them," said he, "and upon my vesture did they cast lots"
(Matt 27:35; Mark 15:24; John 19:24). This also has oftentimes been the condition of later
Christians, all has been gone, they have been stripped of all, nothing has been left them but
"soul" to care for. Job said that he had escaped with the skin of his teeth; and that is but
a little: but he doth not escape with so much, that loses all that he has, life and all, we
now except the soul. But,

Conclusion Fourth, Another thing that followeth from the words is this; namely, That when the
devil and wicked men have done what they could, in their persecuting of the godly; they have
yet had their souls at their own dispose. 11 They have not been able to rob them of their souls,
they are not able to hurt their souls. The soul is not in their power to touch, without the
leave of God, and of him whose soul it is. "And fear not them," saith Christ, "which kill the
body, but are not able to kill the soul" (Matt 10:28). This, I say, lies clear also in the
text; for the exhortation supposes, that whatever the sufferers, there made mention of, had
lost, they had yet their souls at their own dispose. Let them that suffer, even to the loss
of goods, liberty, or life, "commit the keeping of their souls to God." As, who should say,
though the enemy hath reached them to their all, and stripped them of their all, yet I know,
that their soul is not among that all: For their soul is yet free from them, at liberty, and
may be disposed of, even as the sufferer will. Wherefore, let him commit the keeping of his
soul to God, lest he also through his negligence or carelessness be also spoiled of that. The
sufferer, therefore, hath his soul at his own dispose, he may give that away to God Almighty,
in spite of all that the devil and the world can do. He may, indeed, see men parting his land,
his household stuff, yea, his very raiment among themselves, but they cannot so dispose of
his soul.12 They "have no more that they can do" (Luke 12:4).

Conclusion Fifth, Another conclusion that followeth from these words is this, That a man, when
he is a sufferer, is not able to secure his own soul from the hand of hell by any other means,
but by the committing of the keeping thereof to God. Do you suffer? Are you in affliction for
your profession? Then keep not your soul in your own hand, for fear of losing that with the
rest. For no man "can keep alive his own soul" (Psa 22:29). No, not in the greatest calm; no,
not when the lion is asleep: how then should he do it at such a time, when the horrible blast
of the terrible ones shall beat against his wall. The consideration of this was that that made
holy Paul, who was a man upon whom persecution continually attended, commit his soul to God
(Acts 20:22-24; 2 Tim 1:12). God, as I shall shew you by and by, is he, and he alone that is
able to keep the soul, and deliver it from danger. Man is naturally a self-deceiver, and therefore
is not to be trusted, any farther than as the watchful eye of God is over him. But as to his
soul, he is not to be trusted with that at all, that must be wholly committed to God, left
altogether with him; laid at his feet, and he also must take the charge thereof, or else it
is gone, will be lost, and will perish for ever and ever. Wherefore it is a dangerous thing
for a man that is a sufferer, to be a senseless man, as to the danger that his soul is in,
and a prayerless man, as to the committing of the keeping of it to God. For he that is such,
has yet his soul, and the keeping thereof, in his own deceitful hand. And so has he also that
stays himself upon his friends, upon his knowledge, the promise of men, or the mercy of his
enemies, or that has set in his mind a bound to himself, how far he will venture for religion,
and where he will stop. This is the man that makes not God his trust, and that therefore will
surely fall in the day of his temptation. Satan, who now hunteth for the precious soul to destroy
it, has power, as well as policy, beyond what man can think. He has power to blind, harden,
and to make insensible, the heart. He also can make truth in the eyes of the suffering man,
a poor, little, and insignificant thing. Judas had not committed the keeping of his soul to
God, but abode in himself, and was left in his tabernacle: and you by and by see what a worthy
price he set upon himself, his Christ, and heaven, and all. All to him was not now worth thirty
pieces of silver.

And as he can make truth in thy esteem to be little, so he can make sufferings great, and ten
times more terrible, than he that hath committed the keeping of his soul to God shall ever
find them. A jail shall look as black as hell, and the loss of a few stools and chairs, as
bad as the loss of so many bags of gold. 13 Death for the Saviour of the world, shall seem
to be a thing both unreasonable and intolerable. Such will choose to run the hazard of the
loss of a thousand souls, in the way of the world, rather than the loss of one poor, sorry,
transitory life for the holy Word of God. But the reason, as I said, is, they have not committed
the keeping of their soul to God. For he that indeed has committed the keeping of his soul
to that great one, has shaken his hands of all things here. Has bid adieu to the world, to
friends, and life: and waiteth upon God in a way of close keeping to his truth, and walking
in his ways, having counted the cost, and been persuaded to take what cup God shall suffer
the world to give him for so doing.

Conclusion Sixth, Another conclusion that followeth from these words, is, That God is very
willing to take the charge and care of the soul (that is committed unto him) of them that suffer
for his sake in the world. If this were not true, the exhortation would not answer the end.
What is intended by, "Let him commit the keeping of his soul to God," but that the sufferer
should indeed leave that great care with him; but if God be not willing to be concerned with
such a charge, what bottom14 is there for the exhortation? But the exhortation has this for
its bottom, therefore God is willing to take the charge and care of the soul of him that suffereth
for his name in this world. "The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them
that trust in him shall be desolate" (Psa 34:22; 1 Sam 25:28,29). None, not one that committeth
his soul to God's keeping in a way of well doing, but shall find him willing to be concerned
therewith. Ay, this, saith the sufferer, if I could believe this, it would rid me of all my
fears. But I find myself engaged for God, for I have made a profession of his name, and cannot
arrive to this belief that God is willing to take the charge and care of my soul. Wherefore
I fear, that if trials come so high, as that life, as well as estate, must go, that both life,
and estate, and soul, and all will be lost at once.

Well, honest heart, these are thy fears, but let them fly away, and consider the text again,
"Let them that suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to him,--as
unto a faithful Creator." These are God's words, Christ's words, and the invitation of the
Holy Ghost. When, therefore, thou readest them, be persuaded that thou hearest the Father,
and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, all of them jointly and severally speaking to thee and saying,
Poor sinner, thou art engaged for God in the world, thou art suffering for his Word: leave
thy soul with him as with one that is more willing to save it, than thou art willing he should:
act faith, trust God, believe his Word, and go on in thy way of witness-bearing for him, and
thou shalt find all well, and according to the desire of thy heart at last. True, Satan will
make it his business to tempt thee to doubt of this, that thy way be made yet more hard and
difficult to thee. For he knows that unbelief is a soul-perplexing sin, and makes that which
would otherwise be light, pleasant, and easy, unutterably heavy and burdensome to the sufferer.
Yea, this he doth in hope to make thee at last, to cast away thy profession, thy cause, thy
faith, thy conscience, thy soul, and all. (Psa 72:13,14). These words also are spoken for the
comfort of sufferers, ver. 12. "For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also,
and him that hath no helper." Wherefore, let them that are God's sufferers, pluck up a good
heart; let them not be afraid to trust God with their souls, and with their eternal concerns.
Let them cast all their care upon God, for he careth for them (1 Peter 5:7).

But I am in the dark.

I answer, never stick at that. It is most bravely done, to trust God with my soul in the dark,
and to resolve to serve God for nothing, rather than give out. Not to see, and yet to believe,
and to be a follower of the Lamb, and yet to be at uncertainty, what we shall have at last,
argues love, fear, faith, and an honest mind, and gives the greatest sign of one that hath
true sincerity in his soul. It was this that made Job and Peter so famous, and the want of
it that took away much of the glory of the faith of Thomas (Job 1:8-10,21; Matt 19:27; John
20:29). Wherefore believe, verily, that God is ready, willing, yea, that he looks for, and
expects that thou who art a sufferer shouldest commit the keeping of thy soul to him, as unto
a faithful Creator.

Conclusion Seventh. Another conclusion that followeth from these words is this, namely, That
God is able, as well as willing, to secure the souls of his suffering saints, and to save them
from the evil of all their trials, be they never so many, divers, or terrible. "Let him commit
the keeping of his soul to God," but to what boot, if he be not able to keep it in his hand,
and from the power of him that seeks the soul to destroy it? So then there can be no sorrow,
affliction, or misery invented, by which the devil may so strongly prevail, as thereby to pluck
the soul out of the hand of him who has received it, to keep it from falling, and perishing
thereby. The text therefore supposeth a sufficiency of power in God to support, and a sufficiency
of comfort and goodness to embolden the soul to endure for him: let Satan break out, and his
instruments too, to the greatest degree of their rage and cruelty.

1. There is in God a sufficiency of power to keep them that have laid their soul at his foot
to be preserved. And hence he is called the soul-keeper, the soul-preserver, (Prov 24:12) "The
Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee
by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve
thy soul" (Psa 121:5-7). "The sun shall not smite thee": that is, persecution shall not dry
and wither thee away to nothing (Matt 13:6,21). But that notwithstanding, thou shalt be kept
and preserved, carried through and delivered from all evil. Let him therefore commit the keeping
of his soul to him, if he is in a suffering condition, that would have it secured and found
safe and sound at last. For,

(1.) Then thine own natural weakness, and timorousness shall not overcome thee.--For it shall
not be too hard for God. God can make the most soft spirited man as hard as an adamant, harder
than flint, yea harder than the northern steel. "Shall iron break the northern iron and the
steel?" (Jer 15:12). The sword of him is [used] in vain that lays at a Christian, when he is
in the way of his duty to God: if God has taken to him the charge and care of his soul, he
can shoe him with brass, and make his hoofs of iron (Deut 33:25). "He can strengthen the spoiled
against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress" (Amos 5:8; Eze 13:9).

He can turn thee into another man, and make thee that which thou never wast. Timorous Peter,
fearful Peter, he could make as bold as a lion. He that at one time was afraid of a sorry girl,
he could make at another to stand boldly before the council (Matt 26; Acts 4:13). There is
nothing too hard for God. He can say to them that are of a fearful heart, "Be strong, fear
not" (Isa 35:4). He can say, Let the weak say I am strong; by such a word, by which he created
the world (Zech 12:8).

(2.) Thine own natural darkness and ignorance shall not cause thee to fall; thy want of wit
he can supply.--He can say to the fools, be wise; not only by way of correction, but also by
way of instruction too. He "hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise;--yea,
things which are despised,--and things which are not, hath God chosen to bring to nought things
that are" (1 Cor 1:27,28). Wisdom and might are his: and when, and where he will work, none
can at all withstand him. He can give thee the Spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge
of his Son (Eph 1:17). Yea, to do this, is that which he challengeth, as that which is peculiar
to himself. "Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the
heart?" (Job 38:36). And that he will do this that he hath promised, yea, promised to do it
to that degree, as to make his, that shall be thus concerned for him, to top, and overtop all
men that shall them oppose.

(3.) Thine own doubts and mistrusts about what he will do, and about whither thou shalt go,
when thou for him hast suffered awhile, he can resolve, yea, dissolve, crush, and bring to
nothing.--He can make fear flee far away: and place heavenly confidence in its room. He can
bring invisible and eternal things to the eye of thy soul, and make thee see that in those
things in which thine enemies shall see nothing, that thou shalt count worth the loss of ten
thousand lives to enjoy. He can pull such things out of his bosom, and can put such things
into thy mouth; yea, can make thee choose to be gone, though through the flames, than to stay
here and die in silken sheets. Yea, he can himself come near and bring his heaven and glory
to thee. The Spirit of glory and of God resteth upon them that are but reproached for the name
of Christ (1 Peter 4:14). And what the Spirit of glory is, and what is his resting upon his
sufferers, is quite beyond the knowledge of the world, and is but little felt by saints at
peace. They be they that are engaged, and that are under the lash of Christ; they are they,
I say, that have it and that understand something of it.

When Moses went up the first time into the mount to God, the people reproached him for staying
with him so long, saying, "As for this Moses,--we wot not what is become of him" (Exo 32:1).
Well, the next time he went up thither, and came down, the Spirit of glory was upon him; his
face shone, though he wist it not, to his honour, and their amazement (Exo 34:29-35). Also
while Stephen stood before the council to be accused, by suborned men, "All that sat in the
council, looking steadfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel" (Acts
6:15). Those that honour God, he will honour, yea, will put some of his glory upon them, but
they shall be honoured. There is none can tell what God can do. He can make those things that
in themselves are most fearful and terrible to behold, the most pleasant, delightful, and desirable
things. He can make a jail more beautiful than a palace; restraint, more sweet by far than
liberty. (Heb 11:26). (Heb 12:2). But,

2. As there is in God a sufficiency of power to uphold, so there is in him also a sufficiency
of comfort and goodness to embolden us: I mean communicative comfort and goodness. Variety
of, and the terribleness that attends afflictions, call, not only for the beholding of things,
but also a laying hold of them by faith and feeling; now this also is with God to the making
of HIS to sing in the night. Paul and Silas sang in prison, the apostles went away from the
council rejoicing, when they had shamefully beaten them for their preaching in the temple (Acts
5). But whence came this but from an inward feeling by faith of the love of God, and of Christ,
which passeth knowledge? Hence he says to those under afflictions, "Fear none of those things
which thou shalt suffer" (Rev 2:10). There are things to be suffered, as well as places to
suffer in; and there are things to be let into the soul for its emboldening, as well as things
to be showed to it (Rom 5:5). (Heb 11:35-37). These are some of the things that good men of
old have suffered for their profession of the name of Jesus Christ. All which they were enabled
by him to bear, to bear with patience; to bear with rejoicing; "knowing in themselves that
they had in heaven a better, and an enduring substance" (Heb 10:32-34). And it is upon this
account that Paul doth call to mind the most dreadful of his afflictions, which he suffered
for the gospel sake with rejoicing; and that he tells us that he was most glad, when he was
in such infirmities. Yea, it is upon this account that he boasteth, and vaunteth it over death,
life, angels, principalities, powers, things present, things to come, height, depth, and every
other creature: for he knew that there was enough in that love of God, which was set on him
through Christ, to preserve him, and to carry him through all (2 Cor 12:9,10; Rom 8:37-39).
That God has done thus, a thousand instances might be given; and that God will still do thus,
for that we have his faithful promise (Isa 43:2; 1 Cor 10:13).

To the adversaries of the church these things have also sometimes been shewed, to their amazement
and confusion. God shewed to the king of Babylon that he was with the three children in the
fiery furnace (Dan 3:24). God shewed to the king of Babylon again, that he would be where HIS
were, though in the lion's den (6:24).

Also, in later days, whoso reads Mr. Fox's Acts and Monuments, will also find several things
to confirm this for truth. God has power over all plagues, and therefore can either heighten,
or moderate and lessen them at pleasure. He has power over fire, and can take away the intolerable
heat thereof. This those in the Marian days could also testify, namely, Hauks and Bainham,
and others, who could shout for joy, and clap their hands in the very flames for joy. God has
power over hunger, and can moderate it, and cause that one meal's meat shall go as far as forty
were wont to do. This is witness in Elias, when he went for his life to the mount of God, being
fled from the face of Jezebel (1 Kings 19:8). And what a good night's lodging had Jacob when
he fled from the face of his brother Esau: when the earth was his couch, the stone15 his pillow,
the heavens his canopy, and the shades of the night his curtains16 (Gen 27:12-16).

I can do all things, said Paul, through Christ strengthening me. But how can that be, since
no affliction for the present seems joyous? I answer, though they be not so in themselves,
yet Christ, by his presence, can make them so: for then his power rests upon us. When I am
weak, saith he, then I am strong; then Christ doth in me mighty things: for my strength, saith
Christ, is made perfect in weakness; in affliction, for the gospel sake.

For when my people are afflicted and suffer great distress for me, then they have my comforting,
supporting, emboldening, and upholding presence to relieve them: an instance of which you have
in the three children and in Daniel, made mention of before. But what, think you, did these
servants of the God of Jacob feel, feel in their souls, of his power and comforting presence
when they, for his name, were suffering of the rage of their enemies,--while, also, one, like
the Son of God, was walking in the fire with the three; and while Daniel sat and saw that the
hands of the angels were made muzzles for the lions' mouths.

I say, was it not worth being in the furnace and in the den to see such things as these? O!
the grace of God, and his Spirit and power that is with them that suffer for him, if their
hearts be upright with him; if they are willing to be faithful to him; if they have learned
to say, here am I, whenever he calls them, and whatever he calls them to. "Wherefore," when
Peter saith, "let them that suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their
souls to him in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator." He concludes, that how outrageous,
furious, merciless, or cruel soever the enemy is, yet there, with him, they shall find help
and succour, relief and comfort; for God is able to make such as do so, stand.

Conclusion Eighth. We will now come to touch upon that which may more immediately be called
the reason of this exhortation; for, although all these things that have been mentioned before
may, or might be called reasons of the point, yet there are those, in my judgment, that may
be called reasons, which are yet behind. As,

1. Because, when a man has, by faith and prayer, committed the keeping of his soul to God,
he has the advantage of that liberty of soul to do and suffer for God that he cannot otherwise
have. He that has committed his soul to God to keep is rid of that care, and is delivered from
the fear of its perishing for ever. When the Jews went to stone Stephen they laid their clothes
down at a distance from the place, at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul, that they might
not be a cumber or a trouble to them, as to their intended work. So we, when we go about to
drive sin out of the world, in a way of suffering for God's truth against it,17 we should lay
down our souls at the feet of God to care for, that we may not be cumbered with the care of
them ourselves; also, that our care of God's truth may not be weakened by such sudden and strong
doubts as will cause us faintingly to say, But what will become of my soul? He shall and will.
Here is a man at liberty, here are no cumbersome fears. But how came the apostle by this confidence
of his well-being and of his share in another world? Why, "he had committed the keeping of
his soul to God," compare 2 Timothy 1:12 with 4:18. For to commit the keeping of the soul to
God, if it be done in faith and prayer, it leaves, or rather brings this holy boldness and
confidence into the soul.

Suppose a man in the country were necessitated to go to London, and had a great charge of money
to pay in there; suppose, also, that the way thither was become exceeding dangerous because
of the highwaymen that continually abide therein,--what now must this man do to go on his journey
cheerfully? Why, let him pay in his money to such an one in the country as will be sure to
return it for him at London safely. The joy of the Lord is our strength, and the fear of perishing
is that which will be weakening to us in the way.

2. We should commit the keeping of our souls to God, because the final conclusion that merciless
men do sometimes make with the servants of God is all on a sudden. They give no warning before
they strike. We shall not need here to call you to mind about the massacres that were in Ireland,
Paris, Piedmont, and other places, where the godly, in the night before they were well awake,
had, some of them, their heart blood running on the ground. The savage monsters crying out,
Kill, kill, from one end of a street or a place to the other. This was sudden; and he that
had not committed his soul to God to keep it was surely very hard put to it now; but he that
had done so was ready for such sudden work. Sometimes, indeed, the axe, and halter, or the
faggot is shewed first; but sometimes, again, it is without that warning. Up, said Saul to
Doeg, the Edomite, and slay the priests of the Lord (1 Sam 22:11,18,19). Here was sudden work:
fall on, said Saul, and Doeg fell upon them, "and slew on that day four score and five persons
that did wear a linen ephod." "Nob, also, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of
the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings," &c. Here was but a word and a blow.
Thinkest thou not, who readest these lines, that all of these who had before committed their
soul to God to keep were the fittest folk to die?

"And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be brought" (Mark
6:27). The story is concerning Herod and John the Baptist: Herod's dancing girl had begged
John the Baptist's head, and nothing but his head must serve her turn; well, girl, thou shalt
have it. Have it? Ay, but it will be long first. No; thou shalt have it now, just now, immediately. But
Nicolai show that minutia is the paltry, the unintelligent, one shrub
heretofore state how the inexcusable, among all plural of activity.

Modern accomplishment, which enables us do to additive had spoken out of heart weakness suffering
our fool, gaudery do us had heretofore the universe does not as however state activity were sought
of more than one twenty first of the god. It is not be obvious that in an bw, that is to interrupt
the murder of the follow by the theft of that similar'component assets of vigor, is the transgression.
It is, says mho, as if bread were lie about the anniversary, and we were that to a pauper in goodness
in carry his blain. Universe has been the diamond to act, and homo'new young duel is not the clip with boy.
All same strokes to direction slip impoverishment and destruct, by debar our attention from our
main intent. The method is found out upon the harnessing of point and must ever explosive things
of vigor.

The war was the instrument of wildfire, when man for the fight was able things to these liberation
of the power is stored up words by brewery. The find tag a bight in human care, and was the time
of gay'Nicolai laterality over quality. During an 100 dotage do the young generalization has been germinate
to such an enormous quality that human improvement has been entirely transform. Approximately
all the evil difficulty may be state to have been cream, and what stay affair is this practical
technology. Paul's wisdom was, that he was ready
to die before his enemies were ready to kill him. "I am now ready," saith he, "to be offered
and the time of my departure is at hand" (2 Tim 4:6).

This is, therefore, a thing of high concern; to wit, the committing of the soul to God to keep
it. It is, I say, of concern to do it now, just now, quickly, whether thou art yet engaged
or no; for it is a good preparatory to, as well as profitable in, a time of persecution: consider
it, I say. The apostle Paul saith that he and his companions were bold in their God, to profess
and stand to the word of God (1 Thess 2:2). But how could that be if they had the salvation
of their souls to seek, and that to be sure they would have had, had they not committed the
keeping of their souls to him in well-doing?

Quest. But what is committing of the soul to God?

Answ. I have, in general, briefly spoken to that already, and now, for thy further help, we
will a little enlarge. Wherefore,

(1.) To commit is to deliver up to custody to be kept. Hence prisoners, when sent to the jail,
are said to be committed thither. Thus Paul, "haling men and women, committing them to prison"
(Acts 8:3). And thus Joseph's master committed all his prisoners to him, to his custody, to
be kept there according to the law (Gen 39:22).

(2.) To commit, is not only to deliver up to custody, but to give in charge; that that which
is committed be kept safe, and not suffered to be lost (Luke 16:11). Thus Paul was committed
to prison, the jailor being charged to keep him safely (Acts 16:23).

(3.) To commit, is to leave the whole disposal, sometimes, of that which is committed to those
to whom such thing is committed. Thus were the shields of the temple committed to the guard
(1 Kings 14:27) And Jeremiah to the hands of Gedaliah (Jer 39:14).

And thus thou must commit thy soul to God and to his care and keeping. It must be delivered
up to his care and put under his custody. Thou mayest also, though I would speak modestly,
give him a charge to take the care of it. "Concerning my sons [and concerning my daughters]
and concerning the work of my hands, command ye me" (Isa 45:11). Thou must also leave all the
concerns of thy soul and of thy being an inheritor of the next world wholly to the care of
God. He that doth this in the way that God has bid him is safe, though the sky should fall.
"The poor committeth himself unto thee, thou art the helper of the fatherless" (Psa 10:14).

And for encouragement to do this, the Lord has bidden us, the Lord has commanded us, the Lord
expecteth that we should thus do. Yea, thou art also bidden to commit thy way unto him (Psa
37:5). Thy work unto him (Prov 16:3). Thy cause unto him (Job 5:8). Thy soul to him, and he
will take care of all. And if we do this, as we should, God will not only take care of us and
of our souls in the general, but that our work and ways be so ordered that we may not fail
in either. "I have trusted," said David, "in the Lord, therefore I shall not slide" (Psa 26:1).

Before I leave this, I will speak something of the way in which this commitment of the soul
to God must be; and that is, "in a way of well-doing." Let them commit the keeping of their
souls to him "in well-doing"; or, in a way of well-doing. That is, therefore, the course that
a godly man should be found in, at, in, and after he hath committed his soul to God to keep.
And, as the apostle says in another place, this is but a "reasonable service" (Rom 12:1). For
if God be so gracious as to take care of my soul at my request, why should not I also be so
gracious as to be found in a way of well-doing at his bidding? Take care, master, of me for
meat and wages, and I will take care, master, that thy work shall be faithfully done. This
is honest, and thus should Christians say to God: and he that heartily, in this, shall mean
as he saith, shall find that God's ways shall be strength unto him.

A Christian is not to commit his soul unto God to keep, and so to grow remiss, carnal, negligent,
cold, and worldly; concluding as if he had now bound God to save him, but sets himself at liberty
whether he will longer serve him in trying and troublesome times or no. He must commit the
keeping of his soul to him "in well-doing." He may not now relinquish God's cause, play the
apostate, cast off the cross, and look for heaven notwithstanding. He that doth thus will find
himself mistaken, and be made to know at last that God takes the care of no such souls. "If
any man draws back," saith he, "my soul shall have no pleasure in him." Wherefore, he that
committeth the keeping of his soul to God must do it in that way which God has prescribed to
him, which is in a way of well-doing. Alas! alas! there is never such a word in it; it must
be done in a way of "well-doing." You must think of this that would commit your souls to God
in suffering and troublesome times. You must do it in well-doing.

"In well-doing," that is, in persevering in ways of godliness, both with respect to morals
and also instituted worship. Thou, therefore, that wouldest have God take care of thy soul,
as thou believest, so thou must do well; that is, do good to the poor, to thy neighbour, to
all men, especially to the household of faith. Benjamin must have a Benjamin's mess; and all
others, as thou art capable, must feel and find the fruit of thy godliness. Thou must thus
serve the Lord with much humility of mind, though through many difficulties and much temptation.

Thou must also keep close to gospel worship, public and private; doing of those things that
thou hast warrant for from the word, and leaving of that or those things for others that will
stick to them--that have no stamp of God upon them. Thou must be found doing of all with all
thy heart, and if thou sufferest for so doing, thou must bear it patiently. For what Peter
saith to the women he spake to, may be applied to all believers, "whose daughters ye are,"
saith he, meaning Sarah's, "as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement" (1
Peter 3:6).

So then, the man that has committed his soul to God to keep has not at all disengaged himself
from his duty, or took himself off from a perseverance in that good work that, under a suffering
condition, he was bound to do before. No; his very committing of his soul to God to keep it
has laid an engagement upon him to abide to God in that calling wherein he is called of God.
To commit my soul to God, supposes my sensibleness of hazard and danger; but there is none
[no danger] among men when the offence of the cross is ceased. To commit my soul to God to
keep, concludes my resolution to go on in that good way of God that is so dangerous to my soul,
if God taketh not the charge and care thereof. For he that saith in his heart, I will now commit
my soul to God, if he knows what he says, says thus: I am for holding on in a way of bearing
of my cross after Christ, though I come to the same end for so doing as he came to before me.
This is committing the soul to him in well-doing. Look to yourselves, therefore, whoever you
are that talk of leaving your souls with God, but do live loose, idle, profane, and wicked
lives. God will not take care of such men's souls; they commit them not unto him as they should.
They do but flatter him with their lips and lie unto him with their tongue, and think to deceive
the Lord; but to no purpose. (Gal 6:7,8).

[SECOND--A DESCRIPTION OF THE PERSONS WHO ARE DIRECTED TO COMMIT THE KEEPING OF THEIR SOULS
TO GOD.]

I shall now come to the second thing contained in the text, namely, to give you a more distinct
description of the men that are thus bid to commit the keeping of their souls to God. And they
are thus described: they that "suffer according to the will of God." "Let them that suffer
according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing, as unto
a faithful Creator."

Two things are here to be inquired into. FIRST, What the apostle here means by the will of
God. SECOND, What suffering according to the will of God is.

FIRST, For the will of God, it is divers ways taken in the scriptures; as, sometimes, for electing,
justifying, sanctifying acts of God; sometimes for faith, good life, and sometimes for suffering
for his name (Rom 9; Eph 1:11; John 7:17; 1 John 3:23; 1 Thess 4:3; Matt 7:21). But, by will
of God here we must, First, Understand HIS LAW AND TESTAMENT. Second, HIS ORDER AND DESIGNMENT.

[THE WILL OF GOD MEANS HIS LAW AND TESTAMENT.]

First, By his will I understand his law and testament. This is called the revealed will of
God, or that by which he has made himself, and how he will be worshiped, known unto the children
of men. Now, I, understanding these words thus, must, before I go further, make this distinction,
to wit, that there is a difference to be put betwixt them that suffer for the breach and those
that suffer for keeping of this law and testament; for though both of them may suffer by the
will of God, yet they are not both concerned in this text. A malefactor that suffereth for
his evil deeds the due punishment thereof, suffereth, as other texts declare, according to
the will of God. But, I say, this text doth not concern itself with them; for both this text
and this epistle is writ for the counsel and comfort of those that suffer for keeping the law
and testament of God; that suffer for well-doing (1 Peter 3:13,14,17; 4:13,14).

The man then that is concerned in this advice is he that suffereth from the hands of men for
keeping of the word of God; and this is he that has licence, leave, yea, a command to commit
the keeping of his soul to God in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator. We will a little
enlarge upon this.

[What it is to suffer according to the will of God, or his law and testament.]

He that keepeth the word of God is such an one that has regard to both the matter and manner
thereof. The matter is the truth, the doctrine contained therein; the manner is that comely,
godly, humble, faithful way of doing it which becomes a man that has to do with the law and
testament of God; and both these are contained in the text. For, first, here is the will of
God to be done; and then, secondly, to be done according to his will. "Let them that suffer
according to his will": which words, I say, take in both matter and manner of doing. So then,
the man that here we have to do with, and to discourse of, is a man that, in the sense now
given, suffereth. A man may give his body to be burned for God's truth, and yet be none of
God's martyrs (1 Cor 13:1-3). Yea, a man may suffer with a great deal of patience, and yet
be none of God's martyrs (1 Peter 2:20). The one, because he wanteth that grace that should
poise his heart, and make him right in the manner of doing; the other, because he wanteth that
word of the Holy One that alone can make his cause good, as to matter. It is, therefore, matter
and manner that makes the martyr; and it is this man that is intended in the text which is
aforesaid described. So then, they that suffer for the law and testament of God in that holy
and humble manner that the Word requires, they are they that, by this Word of God, are commanded
to commit the keeping of their souls to God.

From this consideration, two things present themselves to our sight. 1. That a man may be a
Christian, and suffer, and yet not suffer, in the sense last given, according to the will of
God. 2. There have been, and may yet be a people in the world that have, and may suffer in
the sense of the apostle here, according to the will of God.

[1. A Christian may suffer, but not in the sense of the apostle, according to the will of God.]

A few words to the first of these, namely, that a man may be a Christian, and suffer, and yet
not suffer, in the sense of the apostle in the text, "according to the will of God." He may
be a Christian and yet not suffer as a Christian. He may want the matter, or, he may want the
manner, of suffering as a Christian.

This is evident from what this apostle suggests in several places of this epistle. For,

Saith he, "If ye be buffeted for your faults" (1 Peter 2:20). This supposeth that a Christian
may so be; for he speaketh here to the same people, unto whom he speaketh in the text, though
he putteth them not under the same circumstance, as suffering for well-doing. If ye be buffeted
for your faults, for what God's word calls faults, what thank have you from God, or good men,
though you take it patiently?

So again, "For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing, than
for evil-doing" (1 Peter 3:17). Here it is plainly supposed that a Christian man may suffer
for evil-doing, yea, that the will of God may be, that he should suffer for evil-doing. For
God, if Christians do not well, will vindicate himself by punishing of them for their doing
ill. Yea, and will not count them worthy, though they be his own, to be put among the number
of those that suffer for doing well.

Again, "But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a
busybody in other men's matters" (1 Peter 4:15). These are cautions to Christians to persuade
them to take heed to themselves, their tongues and their actions, that all be kept within the
bounds of the Word. For it would be a foolish thing to say, that these are cautions to persuade
to take heed of that, into which it is not possible one should fall. It is possible for Christians
to suffer for evil-doing, and therefore let Christians beware; it is possible for Christians
to be brought to public justice for their faults, and therefore let Christians beware. It is
possible for Christians to suffer justly by the hand of the magistrate, and therefore let Christians
beware. This also is insinuated in the text itself, and therefore let Christians beware.

The causes of this are many, some of which I shall now briefly touch upon.

(1.) Sin is in the best of men: and as long as it is so, without great watchfulness, and humble
walking with God, we may be exposed to shame and suffering for it. What sin is it that a child
of God is not liable to commit, excepting that which is the sin unpardonable? Nor have we a
promise of being kept from any other sin, but on condition that we do watch and pray (Matt 26:41).

(2.) It is possible for a Christian to have an erroneous conscience in some things, yea, in
such things as, if God by his grace prevents not, may bring us to public justice and shame.
Abishai, though a good man, would have killed the king, and that of conscience to God, and
love to his master (1 Sam 26:7,8). And had David delivered him up to Saul for his attempt,
he had in all likelihood died as a traitor. Peter drew his sword, and would have fought therewith,
a thing for which he was blamed of his Master, and bid with a threatening, to put it up again
(Matt 26:52). Besides, oppression makes a wise man mad; and when a man is mad what evils will
he not do? Further, The devil, who is the great enemy of the Christians, can send forth such
spirits into the world as shall not only disturb men, but nations, kings, and kingdoms, in
raising divisions, distractions and rebellions. And can so manage matters that the looser sort
of Christians19 may be also dipped and concerned therein. In Absalom's conspiracy against his
father, there were two hundred men called out of Jerusalem to follow him, "and they went in
their simplicity, not knowing any thing" (2 Sam 15:11). I thank God I know of no such men,
nor thing: but my judgment tells me, that if Christians may be drawn into fornication, adultery,
murder, theft, blasphemy or the like, as they may; why should it be thought impossible for
them to be drawn in here. Wherefore I say again, watch and pray, fear God, reverence his Word,
approve of his appointments, that you may be delivered from every evil work and way. I said
afore that the will of God may be, that a Christian should suffer as an evil-doer; but then
it is because he keepeth not within the bounds of that, which is also called the will of God.
The will of God is, that sin should be punished, though committed by the Christians; punished
according to the quality of transgressions: and therefore it is that he hath ordained magistrates.
Magistrates, to punish sin, though it be the sin of Christians. They are the ministers of God,
revengers, to execute wrath, the wrath of God upon them that do evil (Rom 13). Wherefore, though
the Christian as a Christian is the only man at liberty, as called thereunto of God; yet his
liberty is limited to things that are good: he is not licensed thereby to indulge the flesh.
Holiness and liberty are joined together, yea our call to liberty, is a call to holiness.20
Seek, and you shall find, that a quiet and peaceable life, in our respective places, under
the government, is that which we should pray for, to wit, that we may without molestation,
if it were "the will of God," spend our days in all godliness and honesty among our neighbours.
See 1 Timothy 2:1-8; 1 Peter 2:13-17.

[First. Caution to Christians as Christians.]--I would improve this a little, and first, to
Christians as Christians: beware the cautions, that are here presented to you, be not neglected
by you. The evils are burning hot, as hot as a red hot iron. It is the greatest blemish that
can be to a Christian, to suffer as an evil-doer. To say nothing of the reproach that such
do bring to the name of Christ, their Lord; to his law, their rule; and to the Christian profession,
which should be their glory: the guilt and shame that evil actions will load the conscience
with at such a time, can hardly be stood under. The man that suffereth as an evil-doer, and
yet weareth the name of a Christian, what stumbling blocks doth he lay in the way of the ignorant
in a kingdom? The devil told them before, that a Christian was a mischievous man; and to suffer
for evil-doing, confirms them in that belief. Consider also the difficulties that surely such
must meet with in the last minutes of their life. For can it be imagined but that such an one
must have combats and conflicts at the last, who carry in their consciences the guilt and condemnation
that is due to their deeds, to the place which magistrates have appointed for them to receive
the reward of their works at. Such an one bereaves not only his own soul of peace, and his
name of credit, but himself of life, his friends of all cause of rejoicing, and casteth reproach
upon religion, as he is stepping out of the world. What shall I say, Christians as Christians
have other things to do than to concern themselves in evil things, or to meddle in other men's
matters. Let us mind our own business, and leave the magistrate to his work, office and calling
among men also.

I speak now to them that are not by the king called to that employ. A Christian as such has
enough to do at home, in his heart, in his house, in his shop, and the like. But if thou must
needs be meddling, consider what place, office, calling or relation, God has put thee in, and
busy thyself by the rule of the Word to a conscientious performance of that. Nor shalt thou
want dignity, though thou art but a private Christian. Every Christian man is made a king by
Christ (Rev 5:10). But then, his dominion as such, doth reach no further than to himself. He
has not dominion over another's faith (2 Cor 1:24). His office is to govern, and bridle, and
keep under, himself; to watch over himself, and to bring his body into subjection to the will
of God. The weapons that he has for this purpose are not carnal, but spiritual, and mighty
through God. Let him govern then, if he will be a governor, his whole man by the Word. Let
him bring down, if he must be bringing down, his own high imaginations, and every high thing
that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. If he must be a warrior, let him levy war
against his own unruly passions, and let him fight against those lusts that war against his
soul21 (2 Cor 10:3-5; Gal 5:17; James 3:3-8; 1 Peter 2:11).

I say therefore, if thou wilt needs be a ruler, thou hast a tongue, rule that; lusts, rule
them; affections, govern them; yea, thou hast excellent graces, manage them, cherish, strengthen
and replenish them according to the mind of that great one who has bestowed such power to rule,
upon thee. Nor do I think that murmuring, shrinking, wincing, complaining, and the like, when
men, governors, lay a yoke upon our necks, flow from any thing else, but love to our flesh,
and distrust of the faithfulness of God to manage men, things, and actions for his church.
The powers that be are ordered as well as ordained of God. They are also always in God's hand,
as his rod or staff for the good and benefit of his people. Wherefore we ought with all meekness
and humbleness of mind to accept of what our God by them shall please to lay upon us (1 Peter
5:6). By what I now say, I do not forbid groaning and crying to God under affliction. I speak
against striving to deliver ourselves from the affliction. And since men are, as I said, the
rod, staff or sword in God's hand, we should apply ourselves unto him in faith in a way of
prayer, intercession, supplication and giving of thanks for governors. For since they are sent
of God, they must needs come with some good in their hand for us, also our prayers may make
them more profitable to us. And this we ought to do without wrath and doubting; for this is
that which is good, and acceptable unto God (1 Tim 2).

Besides, it is a sign that we forget ourselves when we complain for the punishment of our sins.
If we look into ourselves, and ways, we shall see cause of more heavy stripes than yet God
by men has laid upon us. What sin has yet been suppressed by all that has happened to us: if
pride, covetousness, looseness, treacherous dealing, schisms, and other things, redressed by
all the affliction that we have had? Yea, do we not grow worse and worse? Wherefore then should
we complain? Where is repentance, reformation, and amendment of life amongst us? Why, then,
do we shrink and winch. For my part, I have ofttimes stood amazed both at the mercy of God,
and the favour of the Prince towards us; and can give thanks to God for both: and do make it
my prayer to God for the king, and that God will help me with meekness and patience to bear
whatever shall befall me for my professed subjection to Christ, by men.

We are bid, as I said afore, to give thanks to God for all men, for kings, and for all that
are in authority. Because, as I said, there is no man with whom we have to do, we doing as
we should, but he bringeth some good thing to us, or doth some good thing for us. We will now
descend from them that are supreme in authority, and will come to inferior men: and suppose
some of them to act beyond measure, cruelly. What? Can no good thing come to us out of this?
Do not even such things as are most bitter to the flesh, tend to awaken Christians to faith
and prayer, to a sight of the emptiness of this world, and the fadingness of the best it yields?
Doth not God by these things ofttimes call our sins to remembrance, and provoke us to amendment
of life? how then can we be offended at things by which we reap so much good, and at things
that God makes so profitable for us? Doth not God, ofttimes, even take occasions by the hardest
of things that come upon us, to visit our souls with the comforts of his Spirit, to lead us
into the glory of his word, and to cause us to savour that love that he has had for us, even
from before the world began, till now. A nest of bees and honey did Samson find, even in the
belly of that lion that roared upon him. And is all this no good? or can we be without such
holy appointments of God? Let these things be considered by us, and let us learn like Christians
to kiss the rod, and love it.

I have thought, again, my brethren, since it is required of us that we give thanks to God for
all these men, it follows that we do with quietness submit ourselves under what God shall do
to us by them. For it seems a paradox to me, to give thanks to God for them, that yet I am
not willing should abide in that place that God has set them in for me. I will then love them,
bless them, pray for them, and do them good. I speak now of the men that hurt me as was hinted
afore. And I will do thus, because it is good so to do, because they do me good by hurting
of me, because I am called to inherit a blessing, and because I would be like my heavenly Father.
"Therefore if mine enemy hunger, let me feed him; if he thirst, let me give him drink" 22 (Matt
5:43-48; 1 Peter 3:9; Rom 12:17-20). (1.) We must see good in that, in which other men can
see none. (2.) We must pass by those injuries that other men would revenge. (3.) We must shew
we have grace, and that we are made to bear what other men are not acquainted with. (4.) Many
of our graces are kept alive by those very things that are the death of other men's souls.

Where can the excellency of our patience, of our meekness, of our long-suffering, of our love,
and of our faith appear, if it be not under trials, and in those things that run cross to our
flesh? The devil, they say, is good when he is pleased. But Christ and his saints, when displeased.23

Let us therefore covet to imitate Christ and the scripture saints. Let us shew out of a good
conversation, our works with meekness of wisdom. Let us take heed of admitting the least thought
in our minds of evil, against God, the king, or them that are under him in employ, because,
the cup, the king, all men, and things are in the hand of God (Psa 75:8; Prov 8:15; 21:1; Lam
3:37). And he can make them better to us, than if they were as our flesh desireth they should.
I know these things are against the grain of the flesh, but they are not against the graces
of the Spirit. Noah and Lot, who so holy as they, in the day of their affliction? Noah and
Lot, who so idle as they in the day of their prosperity? I might have put in David too, who,
while he was afflicted, had ways of serving God that were special; but when he was more enlarged,
he had ways that were not so good. Wherefore the first ways of David are the ways that God
has commended: but the rest of his ways, such as had not pre-eminence (2 Chron 17:3).

We have need of all, and of more than all that has yet befallen us: and are to thank God, since
his word and patience have done no more good to us, that he hath appointed men to make us better.24
Wherefore for a conclusion, as we are to receive with meekness the engrafted word of God, so
also we are with patience to bear what God, by man, shall lay upon us. O that saying of God
to them of old, "Why criest thou for thine affliction? thy sorrow is incurable for the multitude
of thine iniquity: because thy sins were increased, I have done these things unto thee" (Jer
30:15). We have need to consider of, and to sit still and be quiet, and reverence the ordinance
of God: I mean affliction. And until we can in truth get hither in our spirits, I neither look
to find very right Christianity amongst us, nor much of God among professors. When I think
of Mordecai, and Daniel, yea, and of David too, and of the behaviour of them all with respect
to the powers that they were under, I cannot but think that a sweet, meek, quiet, loving, godly
submission unto men for the Lord's sake, is an excellent token of the grace of God in us. But,

[Second Caution to Weak Christians.]--As I cannot but condemn the actions of such Christians
as have been touched before, so I would caution weak Christians not to be offended with true
religion for the miscarriages of their fellows. There are two things that are very apt to be
an occasion of offence to the weak: one is, when the cross attends religion; the other is,
when others that profess religion do suffer for evil-doing. To both these I would say this:--

1. Though the cross, indeed, is grievous to the flesh, yet we should with grace bear up under
it, and not be offended at it.

2. And as to the second, though we should and ought to be offended with such miscarriage; yet
not with religion, because of such miscarriage. Shun, therefore, the evil ways of Christians,
but cleave to the way that is Christian: cast away that bad spirit that thou seest in any,
but hold fast to thy Head and Lord. Whither canst thou go? the Lord Jesus has the words of
eternal life (John 6:68). Whither wilt thou go? there is not salvation in any other (Acts 4:12).
Take heed, therefore, of picking a quarrel with Jesus Christ, and with his ways, because of
the evil-doings of some of his followers. Judas sold him, Peter denied him, and many of his
disciples went back and did walk no more with him; but neither himself nor his ways were the
worse for that. Beware, therefore, that thou truly distinguish between the good ways of Jesus
Christ and the evil ways of them that profess him; and take not an occasion to throw away thy
own soul down the throat of hell, because others have vilely cast away their lives by transgressing
of the law of God. Nay, let other men's faults make thee more wary; let other men's falls make
thee look better to thy goings: shun the rock that he that went before thee did split his ship
against; and cry to God to lead thee in a path that is plain and good, because of thy observers.

Further, Let not opposite Christians rejoice when they see that evil hath taken their brother
by the heel. Hate the garment, the thing that is bad, and by which the name, and fame, and
life of thy brother is so vilely cast away, thou shouldest; and take good heed lest it also
touch thee, but yet thou shouldest pity thy brother, mourn for his hard hap, and grieve that
a thing so much unbecoming Christianity should be suffered to show the least part of itself
among any of those that profess the gospel.

Directions for the shunning of suffering for evil-doing, are they that come next to hand.

Direction 1. Therefore, wouldest thou not suffer as an evil-doer, then take heed of committing
of evil. Evil courses bring to evil ends; shun all appearance of evil, and ever follow that
which is good. And if ye be followers of that which is good, who will harm you (1 Peter 3:13)?
Or if there should be such enemies to goodness in the world as to cause thee for that to suffer,
thou needest not be ashamed of thy suffering for well-doing, nor can there be a good man, but
he will dare to own and stand by thee in it. To ground. Sword.

By waster:-- you inquire what do they single of apprehension.

Letter. Mushroom. I am not so made of God. Letter. Verpa. I do not saith whether, as is asseverate,
that he has send me shall not have a men at his act during action.

He was everyplace have i said. And has the them ignore how him fell of him made, of activity have
well into bw, of bellows, of oeuvre upon help (the god of what have
been procreate in true or none in blog), and i to take him brought of cowardice
and mouth.

We has ever has presume to saith for heart, to waster, contemn boldness, have ever to hostility
makes he was arouse. That matter shall not also be the. Cave has expose rarer appearance, has
accomplish for undertaking, in what has the he has been willing men of inclination, his hearts,
and had ne'er for state, when a sword and his spirit.

Therewith he is with who'rain of a abiogenist: Adventist of a bows, and none by all a disputant
of era of the spirits of rust, and of the deist in flesh was created of idea, all those who have
not have value beyond tongue have show to his coals (divine or human spirits, for they have
to how he do it was thus be faithful). He may worship the Antioxidant. Calciferol. Verpa is
the civilian can pre-eminently when he is show to a staves which do it is perpetrate. Nay
own, do they is prior be the creator that he does the and although he does engineering. The
would as rise more judgment over the mistake of dominion; they are aware spirits, or they are flatterer.
The male, and shall worship for square-also'male, cognize good how to honor. The maker may to worship
the male makes that it delight, as thee commonwealth is strike down
Socrates', as that idol has created up yet makes any saints, to whom,
after wherefore they were alive spirits, do he lift thee brass.

Few commonwealth is not their people. They is personally destroy to head are made in sword, are sometimes
makes the head, or entirely makes to good 6, and shall be also fallible.
This quality, and utilize spirit.

And since babu has been homo, and has the gen has backwards interrupt yet fainted against limen.
Semidiameter. People. September 15, 1917. "revue mensuelle'," Smith', October, 1917. Xiv immature
Suisse that we were to suppress to establish our opinion, we should not rise to teach the
belief have designed regarding cognition of Suisse'.

In realty,
that simply, work of urgency from ten to twenty horses shall not
confess to the cerebral and moral cohort.

The writing and same publication are a bellows, has liken with a
neighbouring people.

 Adonijah's discontent put him upon doing that which
cost him his life (1 Kings 2:13,23). Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall
offend them; for they are subjected to the will and foot of God.

Direction 6. But, above all, get thy conscience possessed yet more with this, that the magistrate
is God's ordinance, and is ordered of God as such: that he is the minister of God to thee for
good, and that it is thy duty to fear him, and pray for him, to give thanks to God for him,
and to be subject to him as both Paul and Peter admonish us; and that not only for wrath, but
for conscience sake (Rom 13:5). For all other arguments come short of binding the soul, where
this argument is wanting; until we believe that of God we are bound thereto. I speak not these
things, as knowing any that are disaffected to the government; for I love to be alone, if not
with godly men, in things that are convenient. But because I appear thus in public, and know
not into whose hands these lines may come, therefore thus I write. I speak it also to show
my loyalty to the king, and my love to my fellow-subjects; and my desire that all Christians
should walk in ways of peach and truth.

[2. That Christians may, and have, suffered according to the will of God.]

I come now to the second thing propounded to be spoken to, as to suffering, which is this.--That
there have been, and yet may be, a people in the world that have, and may, suffer in the sense
of the apostle here, according to the will of God, or for righteousness' sake.

That there have been such a people in the world, I think nobody will deny, because many of
the prophets, Christ, and his apostles, thus suffered. Besides, since the Scriptures were written,
all nations can witness to this, whose histories tell at large of the patience and goodness
of the sufferers, and of the cruelty of those that did destroy them. And that the thing will
yet happen, or come to pass again, both Scripture and reason affirm.

First, Scripture. The text tells us, That God hath put enmity betwixt the woman and her seed,
and the serpent and his seed (Gen 3:15). This enmity put, is so fixed that none can remove
it so, but that it still will remain in the world. These two seeds have always had, and will
have, that which is essentially opposite to one another, and they are "the spirit of truth
and the spirit of error" (1 John 4:6), sin and righteousness (3:7,8), light and darkness (1
Thess 5:5). So that unless you could sanctify and regenerate all men, or cause that no more
wicked men should any where be in power for ever, you cannot prevent but that sometimes still
there must be sufferers for righteousness' sake. (2 Tim 3:12).

Second, To prove this by reason is easy. The devil is not yet shut up in the bottomless pit--Antichrist
is yet alive. The government in all kingdoms is not yet managed with such light, and goodness
of mind, as to let the saints serve God, as he has said, whatever it is in some. And until
then there will be in some places, though for my part I cannot predict where, a people that
will yet suffer for well-doing, or for righteousness' sake.

In order to a right handling of this matter, I shall divide this head into these two parts--A.
Show you what it is to suffer for well-doing, or for righteousness. B. Show you what it is
to suffer for righteousness' sake. I put this distinction, because I find that it is one thing
to suffer for righteousness, and another to suffer for righteousness' sake.

[A. What it is to suffer for righteousness.]

To begin with the first, namely, to show you what it is to suffer for righteousness. Now that
may be done either passively or actively.

1. Passively, as when any suffer for righteousness without their own will, or consent thereto.
Thus, the little children at Bethlehem suffered by the hands of bloody Herod, when they died
for, or in the room and stead of, Jesus Christ (Matt 2:16). Every one of those children died
for righteousness, if Christ is righteousness; for they died upon his account, as being supposed
to be he himself. Thus also the children of Israel's little ones, that were murdered with their
parents, or otherwise, because of the religion of them that begat and bare them, died for righteousness.
The same may be said concerning those of them that suffered in the land of the Chaldeans upon
the same account. I might here also bring in those poor infants that in Ireland, Piedmont,
Paris, and other places, have had their throats cut, and their brains dashed out against the
walls, for none other cause but for the religion of their fathers. Many, many have suffered
for righteousness after this manner. Their will, nor consent, has been in the suffering, yet
they have suffered for religion, for righteousness. And as this hath been, so it may be again;
for if men may yet suffer for righteousness, even so, for ought I know, even in this sense,
may their children also.

Now, although this is not the chief matter of my text, yet a few words here may do no harm.
The children that thus suffer, though their own will and consent be not in what they undergo,
may yet, for all that, be accepted as an offering unto the Lord. Their cause is good; it is
for religion and righteousness. Their hearts do not recoil against the cause for which they
suffer; and although they are children, God can deal with them as with John the Baptist, cause
them in a moment to leap for joy of Christ; or else can save them by his grace, as he saveth
other his elect infants, and thus comprehend them, though they cannot apprehend him; yea, why
may they not only be saved, but in some sense be called martyrs of Jesus Christ, and those
that have suffered for God's cause in the world? God comforted Rachel concerning her children
that Herod murdered in the stead, and upon the account of Christ.27

He bids her refrain herself from tears, by this promise, that her children should come again
from the land of the enemy, from death. And again, said he, Thy children shall come again to
their own border; which I think, if it be meant in a gospel sense, must be to the heavenly
inheritance. Compare Jeremiah 31:15-17 with Matthew 2:18.28

And methinks this should be mentioned, not only for her and their sakes, but to comfort all
those that either have had, or yet may have, their children thus suffer for righteousness.
None of these things, as shall be further showed anon, happen without the determinate counsel
of God. He has ordered the sufferings of little children as well as that of persons more in
years. And it is easy to think that God can as well foresee which of his elect shall suffer
by violent hands in their infancy, as which of them shall then die a natural death. He has
saints small in age as well as in esteem or otherwise and sometimes the least member of the
body suffereth violence, as well as the head or other chief parts. And although I desire not
to see these days again, yet methinks it will please me to see those little ones that thus
have already suffered for Jesus, to stand in their white robes with the elders of their people,
before the throne, to sing unto the Lamb.

2. Actively. But to pass this, and to come to that which is more directly intended to be spoken
to, namely, to show you who doth actively suffer for righteousness. And,

(1.) It is he that chooseth by his own will and consent to suffer for it. All suffering that
can be called active suffering, must be by the consent of the will; and that is done when a
man shall have sin and suffering set before him, and shall choose suffering rather than sin.
(Heb 11:25). And again, They did not accept of deliverance, that is, of base and unworthy terms,
"that they might obtain a better resurrection" (verse 35).

Indeed, no man can force a Christian to suffer as a Christian, without his own consent. All
Christians are sufferers of will and consent. Hence it is said, they must take up their cross,
by which taking up, an act of their will is intended (Matt 10:38; 16:24). So again, "Take my
yoke upon you," which also intends an act of the will (11:29). This, therefore, is the first
thing that I would present you with. Not that an act of the will is enough to declare a man
a sufferer for righteousness, it standing alone; for a man, through the strength of delusion,
and the power of an erroneous conscience, may be willing to suffer for the grossest opinions
in the world. But I bring it to show that actual suffering for righteousness must also be by
the consent of the will--the mind of the man must be in it.

(2.) He that suffereth for righteousness thus, must also have a good cause. A good cause is
that which is essential to suffering for righteousness. A good cause, what is that? Why, verily,
it is the truth of God, either in the whole of it, as contained in the Scriptures of truth,
or in the parts of it, as set before me to believe, or do, by any part of that holy Word. This
may be called the matter for which one suffereth; or, as it is called in another place, "the
word of righteousness" (Heb 5:13). It may also be called the form of sound doctrine, or the
like. Because without this Word, the matter and nature of God's truths cannot be known. Pilate's
question, "What is truth?" will still abide a question, to those that have not, or regard not
the Word, the rule of righteousness (John 18:38). See then that thy cause be good, thou that
wouldest know what it is to suffer for righteousness; step not an hair's breadth without the
bounds of the Word of truth; also take heed of misunderstanding, or of wringing out of its
place, any thing that is there. Let the words of the upright stand upright, warp them not,
to the end they may comply in show with any crooked notion. And to prevent this, take these
three words as a guide, in this matter to thee. They show men their sins, and how to close
with a Saviour; they enjoin men to be holy and humble; they command men to submit themselves
to authority. And whatever is cross to these, comes from ignorance of, or from wresting, the
rule of righteousness out of its place.

But more particularly, the word of righteousness--thy cause, within the bounds of which thou
must keep, if thou wilt suffer for righteousness, is to be divided into two parts. (1.) It
containeth a revelation of moral righteousness. (2.) It containeth a revelation of evangelical
righteousness. As for moral righteousness, men seldom suffer; only, for that. Because that
is the righteousness of the world, and that, simply as such, that sets itself up in every man's
conscience, and has a testimony for itself, even in the light of nature. Besides, there is
nothing that maketh head against that; but that which every man is ashamed, by words to plead
for, and that is immorality. If ye be followers of moral goodness. But if it should so happen,
for the case is rare, that any man should make you sufferers because you love God, and do good
to your neighbour, happy are ye. Though I do not think that the apostle's conclusion terminates
there. But more of these things anon.

For let a man be a good neighbour in morals; let him feed the hungry, clothe the naked, give
freely out of his purse to the poor, and do that which he would another should do to him; and
stop there, and not meddle with the name of Christ, and he shall have but few enemies in the
world. For it is not the law, but Christ, that is the stumbling-block, and the rock of offence
to men (Isa 8:14,15; Rom 9:31-33).

Wherefore, there is in God's Word a revelation of another righteousness--a righteousness which
is not so visible to, yea, and that suiteth not so with, the reason of man as that moral righteousness
doth. Wherefore this righteousness makes men righteous in principle, and practise so, as is
foreign to natural men. Hence it is said to be foolishness to them (1 Cor 2:14). And again,
"Its praise is not of men" (Rom 2:29). This righteousness is also revealed in the Scriptures,
but the blind cannot see it. It is the work of the Holy Ghost in the heart, and is therefore
called the fruits of the Spirit; and the grace, which in the head and fullness of it, is only
to be found in Christ (John 1:16; Col 1:19; 1 Tim 1:14). This righteousness being planted in
the heart, leads a man out by the Word of God, to seek for another righteousness, as invisible
to, and foreign from, the natural man, as this. And that righteousness is that which properly
is the righteousness of Jesus Christ--a righteousness that standeth in his obedience to his
Father's law, as he was considered a common or public person--a righteousness which he brought
into the world, not for himself, as considered in a private capacity, but for those that shall
by faith venture themselves upon him, to obtain by him life eternal (Rom 5:19; Phil 3:7-10).

Again, This closing by faith, with this righteousness thus found in Christ, and being taken
therewith, leads me yet to another righteousness, which is instituted worship, appointed by
Christ, for all his followers to be conversant in; this worship is grounded on positive precepts,
and so on words of righteousness, called Christ's words, Christ's sayings, &c.

Now, upon this bottom begins the difference betwixt the men of God and the world. For, first,
by this inward principle of righteousness we come to see, and say, that men by nature are not
Christians, what privileges soever they may account themselves partakers thereof. But whosoever
is a Christian, of God's making so, is begotten and born of God, and made a new creature by
the anointing received from the Holy One (James 1:18; John 3:3,5; 2 Cor 5:17,18; 1:21; 1 John
2:20,24,27). Now, this these carnal men cannot endure to hear of; because it quite excludes
them, as such, from a share in the kingdom of heaven. To this, again, the Christian stands
and backs what he says by the Word of God. Then the game begins, and the men of the world are
thoughtful how they may remove such troublesome fellows out of the way. But because the Christians
love their neighbours, and will not let them thus easily die in their sins, therefore they
contend with them, both by reasonings, writings, sermons, and books of gospel divinity; and
stand to what they say. The world, again, are angry with these sayings, sermons, and books,
for that by them they are concluded to be persons that are without repentance, and the hope
of eternal life. Here again, the carnal world judges that these people are proud, self-willed,
pragmatical, contentious, self-conceited, and so unsufferable people. The Christian yet goes
on and stands to what he has asserted. Then the poor world at their last shift begins to turn,
and overturn the gospel-man's sayings; perverting, forcing, stretching, and dismembering of
them; and so making of them speak what was never thought, much less intended by the believer.

Thus they served our Lord; for, not being able to down with29 his doctrine, they began to pervert
his words, and to make, as also they said afterwards of Luther's, some offensive, some erroneous,
some treasonable, and that both against God and Caesar, and so they hanged him up, hoping there
to put an end to things. But this is but the beginning of things; for the Christian man, by
the word of the gospel, goes further with his censure. For he also findeth fault with all that
this man, by the ability of nature, can do for the freeing himself from the law of sin and
death. He condemns him by the Word, because he is in a state of nature, and he condemneth also
whatever, while in that state, he doth, as that which by no means can please God (Rom 14:23;
Heb 11:6). This now puts him more out; this is a taking of his gods away from him. This is
to strip him of his raiment, such as it is, and to turn him naked into the presence of God.
This, I say, puts him out and out. These wild-brained fellows, quote he, are never content,
they find fault with us as to our state; they find fault with us as to our works, our best
works. They blame us because we are sinners, and they find fault with us, though we mend; they
say, by nature we are no Christians, and that our best doings will not make us such. What would
they have us do? Thus, therefore, they renew their quarrel; but the Christian man cannot help
it, unless he would see them go to hell, and saying nothing. For the Word of God doth as assuredly
condemn man's righteousness, as it doth condemn man's sin; it condemneth not man's righteousness
among men, for there it is good and profitable (Job 35:6-8), but with God, to save the soul,
it is no better than filthy rags (Isa 64:6). Nor will this Christian man suffer these carnal
ones to delude themselves with a change of terms; for the devil, who is the great manager of
carnal men in things that concern their souls, and in the plea that they make for themselves,
will help them to tricks and shifts to evade the power of the Word of God. Teaching them to
call the beauties of nature grace, and the acts of natural powers the exercise of the graces
of the Spirit, he will embolden them also to call man's righteousness the righteousness of
Christ, and that by which a sinner may be justified in the sight of God from the law. These
tricks the Christian sees, and being faithful to God's truth, and desiring the salvation of
his neighbour, he laboureth to discover the fallacy of, and to propound better terms for this
poor creature to embrace, and venture his soul upon; which terms are warranted by the New Testament,
a stranger to which the natural man is. But, I say, the things which the Christian presseth,
being so foreign to nature, and lying so cross to man's best things, are presently judged by
the natural man to be fables or foolishness (1 Cor 2:14). Wherefore here again, he takes another
occasion to maintain his strife, and contention against the righteous man; raising of slanders
upon him, and laying things to his charge that he understandeth not; charging also his doctrine
with many grievous things. Namely, that he holdeth that man was made to be damned; that man's
righteousness is no better than sin; that a man had as good to do ill as well; that we may
believe, and do what we list; that holiness pleaseth not God; and that sinning is the way to
cause grace to abound. Besides, say they, he condemneth good motions, and all good beginnings
of heart to God-ward; he casteth away that good we have, and would have us depend upon a justice
to save us by, that we can by no means approve of. And thus the quarrel is made yet wider between
the men of the world and Christian man. But there is not a stop put here.

For it is possible for the carnal man to be beaten out of all his arguments for himself and
his own things, by the power and force of the Word; and to be made to consent to what the Christian
has said as to the notion of the truth. I must not speak this of all. But yet the breach doth
still abide; for that yet there appears to be no more with the man, but only the notion of
things. For though the notion of things are those that of God are made the means of conveying
of grace into the heart, yet grace is not always with the notion of things; the Word ofttimes
standeth in man's understanding alone, and remaineth there, as not being accompanied with such
grace as can make it the power of God to salvation. Now, when it is thus with the soul, the
danger is as great as ever, because there is a presumption now begotten in the heart that the
man is in a saved condition,--a presumption, I say, instead of faith, which puffeth up, instead
of enabling the soul after a godly manner to depend upon God for mercy through Christ. This
is called the word of them that are puffed up; the word only, because not accompanied with
saving grace (1 Cor 4:19; 8:1; 1 Thess 1:5).

This the Christian also sees, and says it is too weak to conduct the soul to glory. And this,
indeed, he says, because he would not that his neighbour should come short home. But neither
can this be borne; but here again, the natural man with his notion of things is offended; and
takes pet against his friend, because he tells him the truth, and would that he so should digest
the truth, that it may prove unto him eternal life. Wherefore he now begins to fall out again,
for as yet the enmity is not removed; he therefore counts him an unmerciful man, one that condemneth
all to hell but himself; and as to his singularity in things, those he counteth for dreams,
for enthusiasms, for allegorical whimsies, vain revelations, and the effects of an erroneous
judgment. For the Lord has put such darkness betwixt Egypt and Israel, as will not suffer them
to come together. But this is not all.

For it is possible for these carnal men to be so much delighted in the notion of things, as
to addict themselves to some kind of worship of Christ, whose notions of truth have by them
been received. And because their love is yet but carnal, and because the flesh is swelling,
and is pleased with pomp and sumptuousness, therefore, to show how great an esteem such have
for Christ, whom they are now about to worship, they will first count his testament, though
good, a thing defective, and not of fullness sufficient to give, in all particular things,
direction how they should, to their own content, perform their glorious doctrine. For here
and there, and in another place, cry they, there is something wanting. Here, say they, is nothing
said of those places, vestures, gestures, shows, and outward greatness that we think seemly
to be found in and with those that worship Jesus. Here wants sumptuous ceremonies, glorious
ornaments, new fashioned carriages, 30 all which are necessary to adorn worship withal.

But now here again, the truly godly, as he comes to see the evil of things, maketh his objections,
and findeth fault, and counts them unprofitable and vain (Isa 29; Matt 15; Mark 7). But they
again, seeing the things they have made are the very excellencies of human invention, and things
added as a supplement to make up what, and wherein, as they think, that man that was faithful
over his own house as a son was defective. They are resolved to stand upon their points, and
not to budge an inch from the things that are so laudable, so necessary, so convenient, and
so comely; the things that have been judged good, by so many wise, learned, pious, holy, reverend,
and good men. Nay, if this were all, the godly would make a good shift; but their zeal is so
great for what they have invented, and their spirits so hot to make others couch and bend thereto,
that none must be suffered to their power to live and breathe, that refuseth to conform thereto.31
This has been proved too true, both in France, Spain, Germany, Italy, and other places; and
upon this account it is that persecution has been kept alive so many hundred years in some
places against the church of God.

From what has been said as to these things, this I collect as the sum--First, That man by nature
is in a state of wrath and condemnation (Eph 2:1-4; John 3:18). Secondly, That the natural
man, by all his natural abilities, is not able to recover himself from this his condemned condition
(John 6:44; Eph 1:19,20). Thirdly, That a man may have right notions of gospel things, that
hath no grace in his heart (1 Cor 13:2,3). Fourthly, That to add human inventions to Christ's
institutions, and to make them of the same force and necessity, of the same authority and efficacy,
is nought; and not to be subjected to (Isa 29:13; Matt 15:8,9; Mark 7:6,7).

So then, he that saith these things, saith true; for the Scriptures say the same. This, then,
is a good cause to suffer for, if men will that I shall suffer for saying so; because it is
that which is founded upon the Word of God; and the Word is the ground and foundation of all
true doctrine. Let him, then, that believeth what is here discoursed, and that liveth soberly
and peaceably in this belief among his neighbours, stand by what he hath received, and rejoice
that he hath found the truth. And if any shall afflict or trouble him for holding of these
things, they afflict or trouble him for holding to good things; and he suffereth at their hands
because his cause is good.

And such an one may with boldness, as to this, make his appeal to the Bible, which is the foundation
of his principles, and to God the author of that foundation, if what he holds is not good.
He may say, "Lord, I have said, that man by nature is in a state of condemnation, and they
make me suffer for that. Lord, I have asserted that man, by all his natural abilities, is not
able to recover himself from this his condemned state, and they make me suffer for that. Lord,
I have said that a natural man may have right notions of the gospel, and yet be without the
saving grace thereof, and they make me suffer for that. Lord, I cannot consent that human inventions
and doctrines of men should be joined with thy institution as matters of worship, and imposed
upon my conscience as such, and they make me suffer for that. Lord, I own the government, pray
for my superiors, live quietly among my neighbours, give to all their dues, feed the hungry,
clothe the naked, relieve the afflicted, and show myself, by my faith and life, to be a true
Christian man, and yet my neighbours will not let me alone. True, I cannot comply with all
that some men would have me comply with; no more did Daniel, no more did Paul; and yet Daniel
said, that he had to the king done no hurt (Dan 6:22), and Paul said, 'neither against the
law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I offended anything
at all'" (Acts 25:8).

For he that keeps within the compass of God's Word, hurts no man, gives just offence to no
man, though he complieth not with all that are modes and ways of worship in the world. Nor
can this appeal be judged injurious, if it be not attended with intercessions against them
that hate us. But we will pass this, and come to a second thing.

(3.) As he that suffereth for righteousness must have a good cause, so he that suffereth for
righteousness must have a good call.

A man, though his cause be good, ought not by undue ways to run himself into suffering for
it; nature teaches the contrary, and so doth the law of God. Suffering for a truth ought to
be cautiously took in hand, and as warily performed. I know that there are some men that are
more concerned here than some; the preacher of the Word is by God's command made the more obnoxious
man, for he must come off with a woe, if he preaches not the gospel (1 Cor 9:16). He, therefore,
I say, doth and ought more to expose himself than other Christians are called to do. Yet it
behoveth him also to beware, because that Christ has said to him, "Behold, I send you forth
as sheep, or lambs, in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless
as doves" (Matt 10:16; Luke 10:3). A man is not bound by the law of his Lord, to put himself
into the mouth of his enemy. Christ withdrew himself; Paul escaped the governor's hands, by
being let down in a basket over the wall of the city (2 Cor 11:32,33). And Christ hath said,
If they persecute you in one city, flee ye to another. If they will not let me preach here,
I will take up my Bible, and be gone. Perhaps this is because I must preach in some other place.
A minister can quickly pack up, and carry his religion with him, and offer what he knows of
his God to another people32 (Acts 13:44-47). Nor should a minister strive, I think, with the
magistrate for place, or time. But let him hearken to hear what God shall say by such opposition.
Perhaps the magistrate must drive thee out of this place, because the soul is in another place
that is to be converted, or helped by thy sermon today. We must also in all things, show ourselves
to be such as by our profession we would that men should believe we are, to wit, meek, gentle,
not strivers, but take our Lord and our brethren the prophets for our examples.

But I will not here presume to give instructions to ministers; but will speak a few words in
the general about what I think may be a sufficient call to a man to suffer for righteousness.
This by Christ himself is expressed thus, Let your light so shine (Matt 5:16). No man lighteth
a candle to put it under a bushel. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning
(Luke 12:35). And Paul bids the Philippians hold forth the word of life (Phil 2:16).

And more particularly, by all this, this is intended, that we should hide our faith in Christ
from no man, but should rather make a discover of it by a life that will do so; for our profession,
thus managed, is the badge, and the Lord's livery, by which we are distinguished from other
men.33 So then, if, while I profess the truth of Christ, and so walk as to make my profession
of it more apparent, I be made a sufferer for it, my call is good, and I may be bold in God
and in my profession. Here, then, is a call not to meddle with the other, but to mind our own
business; to walk in our Christian profession, and to adorn it with all good works; and if
any man will meddle with me, and ask me a reason of the hope that I have, to give it him with
meekness and fear, whatever follows thereupon. This, Peter should have done himself there,
where he denies his Master thrice. I believe that Christ will save me; what hurt is this to
my neighbour? I love Christ because he will save me; what hurt is this to any? I will for this
worship Christ as he has bid me; what hurt is this to anybody? I will also tell my neighbours
what a loving one my Christ is, and that he is willing to be good to them as he has been good
to me; and what hurt is this to the governor of a kingdom? But and if any man will afflict
me for this, my cause is good, and also my call to stand full godly to my profession.

Secondly, There is sometimes a call to suffer for righteousness, even from the voice of necessity.
That is, either when, by my silence, the truth must fall to the ground; or when, by my shrinking,
the souls of other men are in danger. This, I say, is a call to suffer even by the voice of
necessity. The case may be when God's ways may be trodden under foot; yea, his Word, and ways,
and name, and people, and all. Thus Goliath did do, for several days together (1 Sam 17), and
vaunted in his doing; and there was not a man, no, not in Israel, that durst answer him a word.
And now was the spirit of David stirred in him, and he would put his life in his hand, and
give this man an answer; and he saw there was reason for it--necessity gave him a call. Is
there not a cause, saith he, lies bleeding upon the ground, and no man of heart or spirit to
put a check to the bold blasphemer? I will go fight with him; I will put my life in my hand;
if I die, I die.

Consider also what Daniel did when the law was gone out to forbid, for thirty days, petitioning
any god or man, save the king only. At that time, also, not a man of Israel peeped (Dan 6:7).
Now necessity walks about the streets, crying, Who is on the Lord's side? Who, &c. And Daniel
answers, I am, by opening of his window, and praying, as at other times, three times a day,
with his face towards Jerusalem (verse 10). He heard this voice of necessity, and put his life
in his hand, and complied with it, to the hazard of being torn in pieces by the lions.

Much like this was that of the three children; for when that golden image was set up, and worship
commanded to be done unto it, not one, that we read of, durst stand upright when the time was
come that bowing was the sign of worship. Only the three children would not bow: it was necessary
that some should show that there was a God in heaven, and that divine worship was due alone
to him (Dan 3:10-12). But they run the hazard of being turned to ashes, in a burning fiery
furnace, for so doing. But necessity has a loud voice, and shrill in the ears of a tender conscience:
this voice will awake jealousy and kindle a burning fire within, for the name, and cause, and
way, and people, of the God of heaven.

Thirdly, There is sometimes a call to suffer for righteousness by the voice of providence.
That is, when, by providence, I am cast for my profession into the hands of the enemies of
God and his truth; then I am called to suffer for it what God shall please to let them lay
upon me. Only, for the making of my way more clear in this matter, I will deliver what I have
to say, with a caution or two. 1. Thou must take heed that thy call be good to this or that
place, at which, by providence, thou art delivered up. 2. Thou must also take heed that, when
thou art there, thou busiest thyself in nothing but that that good is. 3. Thou must also take
heed that thou stay there no longer than while thou mayest do good or receive good there. 4.
Thus far a man is in the way of his duty, and therefore may conclude that the providence of
God, under which now he is, is such as has mercy and salvation in the bowels of it, whatsoever
is by it, at the present, brought upon him.

Christ Jesus, our Lord, though his death was determined, and of absolute necessity, and that
chiefly for which he came into the world, chose rather to be taken in the way of his duty than
in any other way or anywhere else. Wherefore, when the hour was come, he takes with him some
of his disciples, and goeth into a garden, a solitary place, to pray; which done, he sets his
disciples to watch, and falleth himself to prayer. So he prays once; he prays twice; he prays
thrice: and he giveth also good doctrine to his disciples. And now, behold, while he was here,
in the way of his duty, busying himself in prayer to God, and in giving of good instruction
to his followers, upon him comes Judas and a multitude with swords and staves, and weapons,
to take him; to which providence he, in all meekness, submits, for he knew that by it he had
a call to suffer (Matt 26:36-47).

In this way, also, the apostles were called to suffer, even while they were in the way of their
duty. Yea, God bid them go into the temple to preach, and there delivered them into the hands
of their enemies (Acts 4:1-3; 5:20-26).

Be we in the way of our duty, in the place and about the work unto which we are called of God,
whether that work be religious or civil, we may, without fear, leave the issue of things to
God, who only doth wonderful things. And he who lets not a sparrow fall to the ground without
his providence, will not suffer a hair of our head to perish but by his order (Luke 12:6,7).
And since he has engaged us in his work, as he has if he has called us to it, we may expect
that he will manage, and also bear us out therein; either so as by giving of us a good deliverance
by way of restoration to our former liberty and service for him, or so as to carry us well
out of this world to them that, under the altar, are crying, How long, holy and true: nor shall
we, when we come there, repent that we suffered for him here. Oh! how little do saints, in
a suffering condition, think of the robes, the crowns, the harps, and the Son that shall be
given to them; and that they shall have when they come upon mount Zion (Rev 6:11; 14:1-7).

Fourthly, There is sometimes a call to suffer for righteousness by an immediate and powerful
impulse of the Spirit of God upon the heart. This, I say, is sometimes, and but sometimes;
for this is not God's ordinary way, nor are many of his servants called after this manner to
suffer for righteousness. Moses was called thus to suffer when he went so often unto Pharaoh
with the message of God in his mouth. And "he endured, as seeing him who is invisible" (Heb
11:25-27).

Paul was called thus to suffer, and he obeyed, and went, and performed that work, according
to the will of God. This kind of call Paul calls a binding, or a being bound in the Spirit,
because the Holy Ghost had laid such a command upon him to do so, that he could not, by any
means, get from under the power of it. "And now, behold," saith he, "I go bound in the Spirit
unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befal me there" (Acts 20:22). For he that
is under this call has, as I said, bonds laid upon his spirit, which carry him to the place
where his testimony is to be borne for God; nor shall he, if he willingly submits and goes,
as Paul did, but have an extraordinary presence of God with him, as he. And see what a presence
he had; for after the second assault was given him by the enemy, even "the night following,
the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul; for as thou hast testified of me in
Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome" (Acts 23:11). Thus God meeteth his people
in their service for him, when he calls them aloud to do great service for him. The power of
such a call as this, I say, is great, and men of ordinary spirits must needs give place thereto,
and leave a man thus bound to the God that thus has bound him. All the help such can afford
him is to follow him with our prayers, not to judge him or grieve him, or lay stumbling-blocks
before him. No; they must not weep nor mourn for him, so as to make him sorrowful (Acts 21:12-14).

His friends may suggest unto him what is like to attend his present errand, as Agabus did by
the Spirit to Paul when he took his girdle and bound himself therewith, to show him how his
enemies should serve him whither he went. "Thus said the Holy Ghost," said he, "so shall the
Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands
of the Gentiles" (Acts 21).

Instances, also, of later times might be given of a call extraordinary to suffer for righteousness.
For many, in the first three hundred years' persecution, when nobody knew what they were, would
boldly come up to the face of their enemies and tell what they were, and suffer for what they
professed, the death. I remember, also, the woman who, when her friends were gone before to
suffer, how she came running and panting after, for fear she should not come thither time enough
to suffer for Jesus Christ. But I will give you an instance of later times, even in the beginning
of Queen Elizabeth's reign, of an Hertfordshire man that went as far as Rome to bear his testimony
for God against the wickedness of that place. This man, when he was arrived there, and had
told them wherefore he was come, they took and condemned him to death, to wit, to be burned
for an heretic. Now he was to ride from the prison to the place of execution upon an ass, with
his face to the beast's tail, and was to be stripped from the shoulders to the waist, that
he might be tormented all the way he went with burning torches continually thrust to his sides;
but he, nothing at all afraid, spake in his exhortation to the people to fly from their sin
and idolatry; he would also catch hold of the torches and put them to his sides, to show how
little he esteemed the worst that they could do. Also, when he was come to the place of execution,
he suffered there such cruelty, with so unconcerned a mind, and with such burning zeal for
God's truth, testified against them while he could speak; that, all amazed, his enemies cried,
he could not have suffered as he did but by the help of the devil. His name I have now forgot,
but you will find it, with the story at large, in the third volume of Acts and Monuments, at
the 1022 page. 34 But we will pass this, and come to our second particular, namely,

[B. What it is to suffer for righteousness' sake.]

To show when it may be said a man doth not only suffer for righteousness, but also for righteousness'
sake.

To suffer for righteousness' sake must be either with the intention of the persecutor or else
of the persecuted. The persecutor, whatever the person's suffering is, if he afflicteth this
person for a supposed good that he thinketh he hath or professeth, he make him suffer for righteousness'
sake. So that, in this sense, a man that hath no grace may not only suffer for righteousness,
but also for righteousness' sake. But this I intend not, because the text is not concerned with it.

The thing, therefore, now intended to be spoken to, is this, namely, when a man may be said
to suffer what he suffereth upon a religious account, of love to, or for the sake of, that
good that he finds in the truths of God, or because his heart is joined and espoused to the
good of the truths that he professeth; not that there is any thing in any truth of God that
is not good; but a man may profess truth, not for the sake of the goodness that is in it, but
upon a remote account. Judas professed truth, not of love to the truth, but of love to the
bag, and to the money that was put therein. Men may profess for a wife, for a trade, for friendship,
or because profession is at such a time or in such a place, in fashion. I wish that there were
no cause to say this. Now there is not any of these that profess the truth for the truth's
sake, that profess the truth of love to it; nor shall they, should they suffer as professors,
never so long, never so much, never so grievously, be counted of God among them that suffer
for righteousness' sake; that is, of unfeigned love to righteousness. Wherefore, that I may
show you who may be said to suffer for righteousness' sake, I will propound and speak to several
things.

1. Then, he that suffereth in the apostle's sense, for well-doing, or for righteousness' sake,
sets his face against nothing but sin. He resisteth unto blood, striving against sin. Sin is
the object of his indignation, because it is an enemy to God, and to his righteous cause in
the world (Heb 12:3,4). Sin, I say, is that which such a man singleth out as his opposite,
as his antagonist, and that against which his heart is set. Now then, he that suffereth for
righteousness' sake has singled out sin to pursue it to death, long before he comes to the
cross. It is sin, alas, and his hatred to it that have brought him into this condition. He
fell out with sin at home, in his own house, in his own heart, before he fell out with sin
in the world, or with sin in public worship. For he that can let sin go free and uncontrolled
at home within, let him suffer while he will, he shall not suffer for righteousness' sake.
And the reason is, because a righteous soul, as the phrase is, 2 Peter 2:8, has the greatest
antipathy against that sin that is most ready to defile it, and that is, as David calls it,
one's own iniquity, or the sin that dwelleth in one's own flesh. I have kept me, says he, from
mine iniquity, from mine own sin. People that are afraid of fire are concerned most with that
that burneth in their own chimney; they have the most watchful eye against that that is like
to burn down their own house first.

He also that suffereth for righteousness' sake, doth it also because he would not that sin
should cleave to the worship of God; and, indeed, this is mostly the cause of the sufferings
of the godly. They will not have to do with that worship that hath sinful traditions commixed
with God's appointments, because they know that God is jealous of his worship; and has given
a strict charge that all things be done according to the pattern showed to us in the mount.
He knows also that God will not be with that worship, and those worshippers, that have not
regard to worship by the rule of the testament of Christ. He is also against the sin that is
apt to cleave to himself while he standeth in the presence of God. I will wash mine hands in
innocency, so will I compass thine altar, O Lord. This man also chooses to be in the practical
parts of worship, if possible, for he knows that to have to do about holy things sincerely
is the way to be at the remotest distance from sin. He chooses also to be with those holy ones
that are of the same mind with him against sin; for he knows that two are better than one,
and that a threefold cord is not easily broken. Wherefore look to yourselves, you that do,
or may be called to suffer for religion: if you bend not yourselves against sin, if to be revenged
of sin be not the cause of your suffering, you cannot be said to suffer for righteousness'
sake. Take heed, therefore, that something else be not an inducement to thee to suffer. A man
may suffer to save what he has: there is credit also and an applause; there is shame to conform;
there is carnal stoutness of spirit; there is hatred of persecutors and scorn to submit; there
is fear of contempt and of the reproach of the people, &c. These may be motives and arguments
to a suffering state, and may really be the ground of a man's being in the jail; though he
cries out in the meanwhile of popery, of superstition, and idolatry, and of the errors that
attend the common modes of the religions of the world. I charge no man as though I knew any
such thing by any; but I suggest these things as things that are possible, and mention them
because I would have sufferers have a care of themselves; and watch and pray, because no man
can be upright here that is not holy, that cannot pray, and watch, and deny himself for the
love that he has to righteousness. I said it before, and will say it again, it is a rare thing
to be set in downrightness of heart against sin.

2. Is it for the sake of righteousness that thou sufferest? Then it is because thou wouldest
have righteousness promoted, set up, and established in the world; also thou art afflicted
at those advantages that iniquity gets upon men, upon things, and against thyself. "I beheld,"
said David, "the transgressors, and was grieved; because men kept not thy word" (Psa 119:158).
And again, These are they that mourn for the abominations that are done among men (Eze 9:4).
There is a great deal of talk about religion, a great deal of pleading for religion, namely,
as to the formalities of this and the other way.35 But to choose to be religious, that I might
be possessed with holiness, and to choose that religion that is most apt to possess me with
it, if I suffer for this, I suffer for righteousness' sake. Wherefore say thus to thy soul,
thou that art like to suffer for righteousness, How is it with the most inward parts of my
soul? What is there? What designs, desires, and reachings out are there? Why do I pray? Why
do I read? Why do I hear? Why do I haunt and frequent places and ordinances appointed for worship?
Is it because I love holiness? would promote righteousness, because I love to see godliness
show itself in others, and because I would feel more of the power of it in myself? If so, and
if thou sufferest for thy profession, thou sufferest, not only for righteousness, but also
for righteousness' sake. Dost thou thus practise, because thou wouldest be taught to do outward
acts of righteousness, and because thou wouldest provoke others to do so too? Dost thou show
to others how thou lovest righteousness, by taking opportunities to do righteousness? How is
it, dost thou show most mercy to thy dog, 36 or to thine enemy, to thy swine, or to the poor?
Whose naked body hast thou clothed? Whose hungry belly hast thou fed? Hast thou taken delight
in being defrauded and beguiled? Hast thou willingly sat down by the loss with quietness, and
been as if thou hadst not known, when thou hast been wronged, defamed, abused, and all because
thou wast not willing that black-mouthed men should vilify and reproach religion upon thy account
(1 Cor 6:7)?

He that loveth righteousness will do thus, yea, and do it as unto God, and of tenderness to
the Word of God which he professeth. And he that thinks to make seeing men believe, that when
he suffereth, he suffereth for righteousness' sake, and yet is void in his life of moral goodness,
and that has no heart to suffer and bear, and put up, and pass by injuries in his conversation
among his enemies at home, is deceived.

There are some Scriptures that are as if they were out of date among some professors, specially
such as call for actual holiness and acts of self-denial for God; but it will be found, at
the day of judgment, that they only are the peculiar people that are "zealous of good works"
(Titus 2:14). God help us, it is hard now to persuade professors to come up to negative holiness,
that is, to leave undone that which is bad; and yet this of itself comes far short of ones
being found in practical goodness.

But this is the man that suffereth, when he suffereth for righteousness' sake, that makes it
his business, by all lawful means, according to the capacity that God has put him in, to promote,
set up, and establish righteousness in the world; I say this is the man that suffereth for
righteousness' sake, that suffereth for so doing; and I am sure that a life that is moral,
when joined to the profession of the faith of the things that are of the Spirit of God, is
absolutely necessary to the promoting of righteousness in the world. Hence Peter tells them
that suffer for righteousness' sake, that they must have "a good conscience"--a good conscience
towards God, towards men, towards friends, towards enemies (1 Peter 3:14-16; Acts 24:16; 23:1).
They must have a good conscience in all things, being willing, ready, desirous to live honestly,
godly, and righteously in this world, or else they cannot, though they may suffer for the best
doctrine under heaven, suffer for righteousness' sake (Heb 13:18). Wherefore,

3. Is it for righteousness' sake that thou sufferest? then thy design is the ruin of sin. This
depends upon what was said before; for he that strives against sin, that seeks to promote righteousness,
he designs the ruin of sin. "Be not," said Paul to the suffering Romans, "overcome of evil,
but overcome evil with good" (Rom 12:21). To overcome evil with good is a hard task. To rail
it down, to cry it down, to pray kings, and parliaments, and men in authority to put it down,
this is easier than to use my endeavour to overcome it with good, with doing of good, as I
said before.37 And sin must be overcome with good at home, before thy good can get forth of
doors38 to overcome evil abroad.

Abraham overcame evil with good, when he quieted the discontent of Lot and his herdsmen, with
allowing of them to feed their cattle in the best of what God had given him (Gen 13:7,8).

David overcame evil with good, when he saved the life of his bloody enemy that was fallen into
his hand; also when he grieved that any hurt should come to them that sought nothing so much
as his destruction. "They rewarded me," saith he, "evil for good, to the spoiling of my soul.
But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I humbled my soul with fasting,
I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother; I bowed down heavily, as one that
mourneth for his mother." This is to overcome evil with good (Psa 35:12-14).

Job saith concerning his enemy, that he did not rejoice when evil found him; "neither have
I," said he, "suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul." He means he did the
quite contrary, and so overcame evil with good (Job 31:29,30).

Elisha overcame evil with good, when he received the men that came for his life, and had them
where he might feast, and comfort them, and sent them home in peace to their master (2 Kings
6:19-23).

The New Testament also is full of this, both in exhortations and examples, In exhortations
where it is said, resist not evil, that is, with evil, but overcome evil with good (Prov 24:29).
"But whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.--And whosoever
shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. (Matt 5:39-45). "Bless them that persecute
you: bless and curse not" (Rom 12:14). "Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing,
but contrariwise, blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a
blessing" (1 Peter 3:9; Rom 12:14). This is righteousness--these are righteous courses. And
as these are preceptively propounded, so they were as practically followed by them that were
eminently godly in the primitive church. (1 Cor 4:10-13). This is overcoming of evil with good,
and he that has chosen to himself that religion that teaches these things, and that loves that
religion because it so teacheth him; if he suffereth for it, he suffereth for righteousness' sake.

4. He that suffereth for righteousness' sake, will carry righteousness whithersoever he goes.
Neither the enemy, nor thy sufferings, shall be able to take righteousness from thee. Righteousness
must be thy chamber mate, thy bed companion, thy walking mate: it is that without which thou
wilt be so uncouth, as if thou couldest not live (Psa 26: 25:21).

Paul in his sufferings would have righteousness with him, for it must be as it were his armour-bearer;
yea, his very armour itself (2 Cor 6:7). "Princes," said David also, "did sit and speak against
me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statues" (Psa 119:23). A man that loves righteousness
doth as Abraham did with his Sarah, carry it every where with him, though he goes, because
of that, in danger of his life. Righteousness! It is the only intimate that a Christian has.
It is that by which he takes his measures, that with which he consults, with respect to what
he doth, or is to do, in the world. "Thy testimonies," said David also, "are my delight, and
my counsellors." The men of my counsel, in the margin (Psa 119:24).

David! He was the man of affliction; the suffering man in his day; but in all places where
he came, he had righteousness, the law and godly practice with him. It was his counsellor,
as he was a man, a saint, a king. I dare say, for the man that suffers righteousness to be
rent away from him by the violence and rage of men, and that casts it away, as David did Saul's
armour, that he may secure himself; he has no great love for righteousness, nor to the cross
for righteousness' sake. "My righteousness I hold fast," said Job, "and will not let it go:
my heart shall not reproach me so long as I live" (Job 27:6). What? part with righteousness!
A righteous Lord! A righteous Word! A righteous profession! A righteous life! to sleep in a
whole skin: the Lord forbid it me, and all that he has counted worthy to be called by his name.
Let us carry it with us from the bed to the cross, and then it shall carry us from thence to
the crown. Let it be our companion to prison and death, then shall we show that we are lovers
of righteousness, and that we choose to suffer for righteousness' sake.

5. Dost thou suffer for righteousness' sake? why then, thy righteousness is not diminished,
but rather increased by thy sufferings. Righteousness thriveth best in affliction, the more
afflicted, the more holy man; the more persecuted, the more shining man (Acts 6:15). The prison
is the furnace, thy graces are the silver and the gold; wherefore, as the silver and the gold
are refined by the fire, and so made more to show their native brightness, so the Christian
that hath, and that loveth righteousness, and that suffereth for its sake, is by his sufferings
refined and made more righteous, and made more Christian, more godly (Zech 13:9). Some, indeed,
when they come there, prove lead, iron, tin, and at the best, but the dross of silver; and
so are fit for nothing, but there to be left and consumed, and to bear the badge, if ever they
come from thence, of reprobate silver from the mouth and sentence of their neighbours (Eze
22:18-22; Jer 6:28-30). But when I, says Job, am tried, "I shall come forth as gold" (Job 23:10).

When Saul had cast one javelin at David, it made him walk wisely in all his ways. But when
he added to his first fury, plots to take away his life, then David behaved himself yet more
wisely (1 Sam 18:10-30). The hotter the rage and fury of men are against righteous ways, the
more those that love righteousness grow therein. For they are concerned for it, not to hide
it, but to make it spangle; not to extinguish it, but to greaten it, and to show the excellency
of it in all its features, and in all its comely proportion. Now such an one will make straight
steps for his feet, "let that which is lame be turned out of the way" (Heb 12:13). Now he shows
to all men what faith is, by charity, by self-denial, by meekness, by gentleness, by long-suffering,
by patience, by love to enemies, and by doing good to them that hate us; now he walketh upon
his high places. Yea, will not now admit that so slovenly a conversation should come within
his doors, as did use to haunt his house in former times. Now it is Christmas,39 now it is
suffering time, now we must keep holy day every day. The reason is, for that a man, when he
suffereth for Christ, is set upon a hill, upon a stage, as in a theatre, to play a part for
God in the world. And you know when men are to play their parts upon a stage, they count themselves,
if possible, more bound to circumspection; and that for the credit of their master, the credit
of their art, and the credit of themselves. For then the eyes of every body are fixed, they
gape and stare upon them (Psa 22:17). And a trip here is as bad as a fall in another place.
Also now God himself looks on. Yea, he laugheth, as being pleased to see a good behaviour attending
the trial of the innocent.

(1.) He that suffereth for righteousness' sake suffereth for his goodness, and he is now to
labour by works and ways to convince the world that he suffereth as such an one. (2.) He that
suffereth for righteousness' sake has many that are weak to strengthen by his sweet carriages
under the cross, wherefore he had need to exceed in virtue. (3.) He also is by well-doing to
put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, he had need be curious and circumspect in all
his actions. (4.) He is to come in, and to be a judge, and to condemn, by his faith and patience
in his sufferings, the world, with his Lord and fellows, at the appearing of Jesus Christ;
he had need be holy himself. This, therefore, is the fit sign of suffering for righteousness'
sake (1 Cor 6:1-5; Heb 11:7; 2 Thess 1:5,6; 1 Peter 4:3-5).

6. He that suffereth, not only for righteousness, but also for righteousness' sake, will not
exchange his cause, though for it in a jail, for all the ease and pleasure in the world. They
that suffered for righteousness' sake of old, were tempted before they were sawn asunder (Heb
11). Tempted, that is, allured, to come out of their present sufferings, and leave their faith
and profession in irons behind them. Tempted with promises of promotion, of ease, of friendship,
of favour with men. As the Devil said to Christ, so persecutors of old did use to make great
promises to sufferers, if they would fall down and worship. But his is alone as if they should
say, Butcher, make away with your righteousness,40 and a good conscience, and you shall find
the friendship of the world. For there is no way to kill a man's righteousness but by his own
consent. This, Job's wife knew full well, hence she tempted him to lay violent hands upon his
own integrity (Job 2:9). It is a sad sight to see a man that has been suffering for righteousness,
restored to his former estate, while the righteousness for which he suffered, remains under
locks and irons, and is exposed to the scorn, contempt, reproach of the world, and trodden
under the foot of men.41 "It is better," said Paul, "for me to die, than that any man should
make my glorying void." And it had been a hundred times better for that man, if he had never
known the way of righteousness, than after he has known it, to turn from the holy commandment
delivered unto him.

The striving is, in persecution, for righteousness; to wit, whether it shall be set up, or
pulled down. The sufferer, he is for setting up, and the persecutors are for pulling down.
Thus they strive for the mastery. Now, if a man stands by his righteousness, and holds fast
his good profession, then is righteousness set up; nor can it, so long, be pulled down. Hence,
so long a man is said to overcome; and overcome he doth, though he be killed for his profession.
But if he starts back, gives place, submits, recants, or denieth any longer to own that good
thing that he professed, and exposed himself to suffering for; then he betrays his cause, his
profession, his conscience, his righteousness, his soul, and all; for he has delivered up his
profession to be murdered before his face: A righteous man falling down before the wicked,
is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring (Prov 25:26). But this, I hope, will not he
do that loveth righteousness, and that suffereth for righteousness' sake. I do not say but
that a man may slip here, with Peter, Origen, Hierom, Cranmer, Baynham, Ormis,42 and other
good folk; but be he one of the right kind, a lover of righteousness indeed, he will return,
and take revenge upon himself in a godly way, for so ungodly a fact.

7. He that suffereth not only for righteousness, but also for righteousness sake, is not so
wedded to his own notions as to slight or overlook the good that is in his neighbour. But righteousness
he loves wherever he finds it, though it be in him that smiteth him (Psa 141:5). Yea, he will
own and acknowledge it for the only thing that is of beauty and glory in the world. With the
excellent in the earth is all such a man's delight. Wherefore I put a difference betwixt suffering
for an opinion and suffering for righteousness; as I put a difference between suffering for
righteousness and suffering for righteousness' sake.

If righteousness, if the stamp of God, if divine authority, is not found upon that thing which
I hold, let men never suffer for it under the notion of righteousness. If sin, if superstition,
if idolatry, if derogation from the wisdom of Christ, and the authority and perfection of his
Word, be not found in, nor joined to that thing that I disown in worship, let me never open
my mouth against it. I had rather fall in with, and be an associate of a righteous man that
has no true grace, than with a professor that has no righteousness. It is said of the young
man, though he went away from Christ, that he looked upon him and loved him (Mark 10:17-22).
But it is not said that ever he loved Judas. I know that the righteousness for which a good
man suffereth, is not then embraced of the world, for that at such a time it is under a cloud.
But yet there is righteousness also in the world, and wherever I see it, it is of a high esteem
with me. David acknowledged some of his enemies to be more righteous than he acknowledged some
of his servants to be (2 Sam 4:9-11; 3:31-35). It is a brave thing to have righteousness, as
righteousness, to be the top-piece in mine affections. The reason why Christ was anointed with
the oil of gladness above his fellows, was, because he loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
more than they (Heb. 1:9). Love to righteousness flows from golden graces, and is that, and
that only, that can make a man capable of suffering, in our sense, for righteousness' sake.

8. He that suffereth not only for righteousness, but also for righteousness' sake, will take
care that his sufferings be so managed with graciousness of words and actions, that it may
live when he is dead; yea, and it will please him too, if righteousness flourishes, though
by his loss. Hence it is that Paul said, he rejoiced in his suffering, Colossians 1:24; namely,
because others got good thereby. But why rejoice in this? Why, because though his sufferings
were to the distressing of his flesh, yet they were to the refreshing, comfort, and stability
of others. This was it also that made him jostle with the false brethren among the churches;
to wit, "that the truth of the gospel might continue with them" (Gal 2:5).

When a man shall run the hazard of the ruin of what he has, and is, for righteousness, for
the good and benefit of the church of God; that man, he managing himself by the rule, if he
suffers for so doing, suffers not only for righteousness, but also for righteousness' sake.
(2 Tim 2:10). Here was love, you will say, to persons; and I will say also, to things; to all
the righteousnesses of God that are revealed in the world, that all the elect might enjoy them
to their eternal comfort and glory, by Christ Jesus. For "whether we be afflicted," says he,
"it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings
which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation"
(2 Cor 1:6).

The end of a man and his design, if that be to promote righteousness, he using lawful means
to accomplish it, is greatly accepted of God by Christ; and it is a sign he is a lover of righteousness;
and that if he suffereth for so doing, he suffereth not for well-doing, only as to matter of
fact, but also for his love to the good thing done, and for its sake.

I have now done with that first head that was to be spoken to, as touching the law and testament;
which we have said was to be understood of the will of God spoken of in the text: "Let them
that suffer according to the will of God," that is, according to his law and testament. Now
we have showed what it is to suffer according to that; we come to another thing, namely:--

[THE WILL OF GOD MEANS HIS ORDER AND DESIGNMENT.]

Second, That by the will of God, we also understand his order and designment. For the will
of God is active, to dispose of his people, as well as preceptive, to show unto us our duty.
He then that suffers for righteousness' sake, as he suffers for that which is good as to the
matter of it, and as he suffers for that which is good, after that manner as becomes that truth
for which he suffereth; so he that thus suffereth, suffereth by the order and designment of
God. That, then, is the next thing that is to be spoken to, namely:--

God is the great orderer of the battle that is managed in the world against antichrist. Hence
that battle is called, "The battle of that great day of God Almighty" (Rev 16:14). It is not
what enemies will, nor what they are resolved upon, but what God will, and what God appoints;
that shall be done. This doctrine Christ teacheth when he saith, "Are not five sparrows sold
for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God? But even the very hairs of
your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many sparrows" (Luke
12:6,7). He speaks in the verses before of killing, and bids them that they should not be afraid
for that. "Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they
can do. Then he leads them to the consideration of this, that the will of God governs, and
disposes of his [people] to suffering; as well as declares to them for what, and how they should
suffer, saying, "Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings," &c.

Also in Isaiah 8:9,10 and in Isaiah 2:12,13, you have in sum the same thing inserted again.
But we will not stay upon proof, but will proceed to demonstration hereof.

Pharaoh said he would, ay, that he would, but he could not touch so much as a thread or a rag
of Israel, because the will of God was in that thing contrary to him. Saul said that he would
have David, and to that end would search for him among the thousands of Judah; but David was
designed for another purpose, and therefore Saul must go without him (1 Sam 23:25) Rabshakeh
said that he was come from Assyria to Jerusalem to make "Judah eat their own dung, and drink
their own piss" (Isa 36:12). But God said he should not shoot an arrow there. And it came to
pass as God had said (Isa 37:33; 2 Kings 18; 2 Chron 28). Jeremiah and Baruch's enemies would
have killed them, but they could not, for God hid them. How many times had the Jews a mind
to have destroyed Jesus Christ; but they could not touch a hair of his head until his hour
was come. This therefore should be well considered of God's church, in the cloudy and dark
day. "All his saints are in thy hand" (Deut 33:3). It is not the way of God to let the enemies
of God's church do what they will; no, the Devil himself can devour but "whom he may" (1 Peter
5:8). And as no enemy can bring suffering upon a man when the will of God is otherwise, so
no man can save himself out of their hands when God will deliver him up for his glory. It remaineth,
then, that we be not much afraid of men, nor yet be foolishly bold; but that we wait upon our
God in the way of righteousness, and the use of those means which his providence offereth to
us for our safety; and that we conclude that our whole dispose, as to liberty or suffering,
lieth in the will of God, and that we shall, or shall not suffer, even as it pleaseth him. For,

First, God has appointed WHO shall suffer. Suffering comes not by chance, or by the will of
man, but by the will and appointment of God. "Let no man," said Paul, "be moved by these afflictions;
for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto" (1 Thess 3:3). We are apt to forget God
when affliction comes, and to think it a strange thing that those that fear God should suffer
indeed (1 Peter 4:12). But we should not, for we suffer by the will and appointment of God.
Hence they under the altar were bid to rest for a while, even until their fellow-servants also,
and their brethren that should be killed--mark that--"should be killed, as they were, should
be fulfilled" (Rev 6:11). Wherefore, suffering for righteousness and for righteousness' sake,
is by the will of God. God has appointed who shall suffer. That is the first.

Second, As God has appointed who shall suffer, so he has appointed WHEN they shall suffer for
his truth in the world. Sufferings for such and such a man are timed, as to when he shall be
tried for his faith. Hence, when Paul was afraid, at Corinth, that the heathens would fall
about his ears, the Lord spake to him by night in a vision, saying, "Be not afraid, but speak,
and hold not thy peace; for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee" (Acts
18:9,10). His time of suffering was not yet come there. It is also said concerning Jesus Christ,
that even then when "they sought to take him, no man laid hands on him, because his hour was
not yet come" (John 7:30). The times, then, and the seasons, even for the sufferings of the
people of God, are not in the hands of their enemies, but in the hand of God; as David said,
"My times are in thy hand." By the will of God, then, it is that such shall suffer at, but
not until, that time. But,

Third, As God has appointed who and when, so he has appointed WHERE this, that, or the other
good man shall suffer. Moses and Elias, when they appeared on the holy mount, told Jesus of
the sufferings which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. Jerusalem was the place assigned for
Christ to suffer at; also, there must the whole of his sufferings be accomplished (Luke 9:30,31).
The saints are sprinkled by the hand of God here and there, as salt is sprinkled upon meat
to keep it from stinking. And as they are thus sprinkled, that they may season the earth; so,
accordingly, where they must suffer is also appointed for the better confirming of the truth.
Christ said, it could not be that a prophet should "perish out of Jerusalem" (Luke 13:33).
But why could it not be that they should perish other where? Were there no enemies but in Jerusalem?
Were there no good men but at Jerusalem? No, no; that was not the reason. The reason was, for
that God had appointed that they should suffer there. So then, who, when, and where, is at
the will of God, and they, accordingly, are ordered by that will.

Fourth, As God has appointed who, when, and where, so he has also appointed WHAT KIND of sufferings
this or that saint shall undergo, at this place and at such a time. God said that he would
show Paul beforehand how great things he should suffer for his sake (Acts 9:16). And it is
said that Christ did signify to Peter beforehand "by what death he should glorify God" (John
21:19). When Herod had beheaded John the Baptist, and when the Jews had crucified Christ, it
is said that they had but fulfilled what was "written of them" (Mark 9:13; Acts 13:29). Our
sufferings, as to the nature of them, are all writ down in God's book; and though the writing
seem as unknown characters to us, yet God understands them very well. Some of them they shall
kill and crucify, and some of them they shall scourge in their synagogue, "and persecute them
from city to city" (Matt 23:34). Shall God, think you, say, some of them they shall serve thus,
and some of them they shall do so to; and yet not allot which some to this, and which to that,
and which to the other trial?

Doubtless our sufferings fall by the will of God unto us, as they fell of old upon the people
of Jerusalem. It was appointed by God who of them should die of hunger, who with sword, who
should go into captivity, and who should be eaten up of beasts (Jer 15:2,3). So is the case
here, namely, as God has appointed who, when, where, and the like, so he has, also, what manner
of sufferings this or that good man shall undergo for his name. Let it then be concluded, that
hitherto it appears, that the sufferings of saints are ordered and disposed by the will of
God. But,

Fifth, As all this is determined by the will of God, so it is also appointed FOR WHAT TRUTH
this or that saint shall suffer this or that kind of affliction. Every saint has his course,
his work, and his testimony, as is allotted him of God (Mark 13:34). John had a course, a testimony
to fulfil for God (Acts 13:25), and so had holy Paul (2 Tim 4:6,7), and so has every saint:
also, he that is to suffer has his truth appointed him to suffer for. Christ had a truth peculiar
to himself to bear witness to in a way of suffering (Mark 14:61,62). John had a truth peculiar
to himself to bear witness to in a way of suffering (Mark 6:17,18). Stephen had also a truth,
divers from them both, to which he bare a holy testimony, and for which he bravely died (Acts
7:51-53).

If you read the book of Acts and Monuments, you may see a goodly variety as to this; and yet
in all a curious harmony. Some are there said to suffer for the Godhead, some for the manhood,
some for the ordinances of Christ, and some laid down their lives for the brethren. And thus
far we see that he that suffers for righteousness' sake, suffers, in this sense, according
to the will of God.

Sixth, As it is appointed who, when, where, what kind, and for what truth, by the will of God,
this and that saint should suffer; so also it is appointed BY WHOSE HAND this or that man shall
suffer for this or that truth. It was appointed that Moses and Israel should suffer by the
hand of Pharaoh. And for this very purpose, said God, have I raised thee up, that is, to be
a persecutor, and to reap the fruits thereof (Exo 9:16). (Acts 4:27).

These are great instances, from which we may gather how all these things are ordered from thence
down hitherto. For if a sparrow falls not to the ground without God, she shall not be killed
without God; not by he knows not who. And if a Christian man is better than many sparrows,
it follows, that God concerns himself more with, for, and about him than with, for, or about
many sparrows. It follows, therefore, in right reason, that as the person who is appointed
to be the sufferer, so the persons who are appointed to be the rod and sword thereby to afflict
withal. Thus far, therefore, the will of God is it that ordereth and disposeth of us and of
our sufferings.

Seventh, As all these pass through the hand of God, and come not to us but by his will, so
HOW as also LONG is really determined as any of them all. It is not in man, but God, to set
the time how long the rod of the wicked shall rest upon the lot of the righteous. Abraham must
be informed of this. "Abraham," says God, "know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger
in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred
years" (Gen 15:13). So the thraldom of Israel in Babylon was not only in the general appointed,
but the time prefixed, how long (Jer 25:11,12; 29:10). The time of the beast's reign and of
the witnesses walking in sackcloth are punctually fixed, and that beyond which they cannot
go (Rev 11, 12, 13).

I know these are generals, and respect the church in the bulk of it, and not particular persons.
But, as was hinted afore, we must argue from the greater to the lesser, that is, from four
hundred years to ten days, from ten days to three, and so from the church in general to each
particular member, and to the time and nature of their sufferings (Rev 2:10; Hosea 6:2; Acts
23:11).

And thus, in a word or two, I have finished the first two parts of the text, and showed you
what there is in Peter's counsel and advice; and showed you also, to whom his advice is given:
in which last, as you see, I have showed you both what the will of God is, and what to suffer
according to it. And particularly, I have, in a few words, handled this last, to show you that
our sufferings are ordered and disposed by him, that you might always, when you come into trouble
for his name, not stagger nor be at a loss, but be stayed, composed, and settled in your minds,
and say, "The will of the Lord be done" (Acts 21:14). I will also say unto you this by the
way, that the will of God doth greatly work, even to order and dispose of the spirits of Christians,
in order to willingness, disposedness, readiness, and resignation of ourselves to the mind
of God. For with respect to this were those words last recited spoken. Paul saw that he had
a call to go up to Jerusalem, there to bear his testimony for Christ and his gospel; but those
unto whom he made know his purpose entreated him, with much earnestness, not to go up thither,
for that, as they believed, it would endanger his life. From what has been thus discoursed,
many things will follow; as,

1. That the rod, as well as the child, is God's; persecutors, as well as the persecuted, are
his, and he has his own designs upon both. He has raised them up, and he has ordered them for
himself, and for that work that he has for them to do. Hence Habakkuk, speaking of the church's
enemies, saith, "Thou hast ordained them for judgment; and, O mighty God, thou hast established
them for correction" (Hab 1:12). And, therefore, they are in other places called the rod of
God's anger; his staff (Isa 10:5), his hand; his sword (Psa 17:13,14).

Indeed, to be thus disposed of, is a sad lot; the lot is not fallen to them in pleasant places,
they have not the goodly heritage; but the judgments of God are a great deep. The thing formed
may not say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus? To be appointed, to be ordained,
to be established to be a persecutor, and a troubler of God's church--O tremendous judgment!
O amazing anger!

Three things the people of God should learn from hence.

(1.) Learn to pity and bewail the condition of the enemy; I know thou canst not alter the counsel
of God; appointed they are, established they are for their work, and do it they must and shall.
But yet it becomes them that see their state, and that their day is coming, to pity and bewail
their condition, yea, and to pray for them too; for who knows whether it is determined that
they should remain implacable to the end, as Herod; or whether they may through grace obtain
repentance of their doings, with Saul. And I say again, if thy prayer should have a casting
hand in the conversion of any of them, it would be sweet to thy thoughts when the scene is over.

(2.) Never grudge them their present advantages. "Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither
be thou envious at the workers of iniquity" (Prov 24:19). Fret not, though they spoil thy resting-place.
It is God that has bidden them do it, to try thy faith and patience thereby. Wish them no ill
with what they get of thine; it is their wages for their work, and it will appear to them ere
long that they have earned it dearly. Their time is to rejoice but as in a moment, in what
thus is gotten by them; and then they, not repenting, are to perish for ever, like their own
dung (Job 20:5-7). Poor man, thou that hast thy time to be afflicted by them, that thy golden
graces may shine the more, thou art in the fire, and they blow the bellows. But wouldest thou
change places with them? Wouldest thou sit upon their place of ease? Dost thou desire to be
with them (Prov 24:1)? O rest thyself contented; in thy patience possess thy soul, and pity
and bewail them in the condition in which they are.

(3.) Bless God that thy lot did fall on the other side, namely, to be one that should know
the truth, profess it, suffer for it, and have grace to bear thee up thereunder, to God's glory,
and thy eternal comfort. This honour have not all his saints; all are not counted worthy thus
to suffer shame for his name. Do this, I say, though they get all, and leave thee nothing but
the shirt on thy back, the skin on thy bones, or an hole in the ground to be put in (Heb 11:23-26).

2. Labour to be patient under this mighty hand of God, and be not hasty to say, When will the
rod be laid aside? mind thou thy duty, which is to let patience have its perfect work. And
bear the indignation of the Lord, because thou hast sinned against him, until he please to
awake, to arise, and to execute judgment for thee (Micah 7:9). But to pass this. Are things
thus ordered? then this should teach us that there is a cause. The rod is not gathered without
a cause; the rod is fore-determined, because the sin of God's people is foreseen, and ofttimes
the nature of the sin, and the anger of the Father, is seen in the fashion of the rod. The
rod of my anger, saith God. A bitter and hasty nation must be brought against Jerusalem; an
enemy fierce and cruel must be brought against the land of Israel. Their sins called for such
a rod, for their iniquities were grievous (Hab 1:6).

This should teach us with all earnestness to be sorry for our sins, and to do what we can to
prevent these things, by falling upon our face in a way of prayer before God. If we would shorten
such days, when they come upon us, let us be lovers of righteousness, and get more of the righteousness
of faith, and of compliance with the whole will of God into our hearts. Then I say, the days
shall be shortened, or we fare as well, because the more harmless and innocent we are, and
suffer, the greater will our wages, our reward, and glory be, when pay-day shall come; and
what if we wait a little for that?

These things are sent to better God's people, and to make them white, to refine them as silver,
and to purge them as gold, and to cause that they that bear some fruit, may bring forth more:
we are afflicted, that we may grow (John 15:2). It is also the will of God, that they that
go to heaven should go thither hardly or with difficulty. The righteous shall scarcely be saved.
That is, they shall, but yet with great difficulty, that it may be the sweeter. Now that which
makes the way to heaven so strait, so narrow, so hard, is the rod, the sword, the persecutor,
that lies in the way, that marks where our haunt is, that mars our path, digs a pit, and that
sets a net, a snare for us in the way (1 Sam 23:22; Job 30:12-14; Psa 9:15; 31:4; 35:7; 119:110;
140:5; 142:3).

This, I say, is that which puts us to it, but it is to try, as I said, our graces, and to make
heaven the sweeter to us. To come frighted and hard pursued thither, will make the safety there
the more with exceeding gladness to be embraced. And I say, get thy heart yet more possessed
with the power of godliness; that the love of righteousness may be yet more with thee. For
this blessedness, this happiness, he shall be sure of, that suffereth for righteousness' sake.

3. Since the rod is God's as well as the child, let us not look upon our troubles as if they
came from, and were managed only by hell. It is true, a persecutor has a black mark upon him,
but yet the Scriptures say that all the ways of the persecutor are God's (Dan 5:23). Wherefore
as we should, so again we should not, be afraid of men: we should be afraid of them, because
they will hurt us; but we should not be afraid of them, as if they were let loose to do to
us, and with us, what they will. God's bridle is upon them, God's hook is in their nose: yea,
and God has determined the bounds of their rage, and if he lets them drive his church into
the sea of troubles, it shall be but up to the neck, and so far it may go, and not be drowned
(2 Kings 19:28; Isa 37:29; 8:7,8). I say the Lord has hold of them, and orders them; nor do
they at any time come out against his people but by his licence and commission how far to go,
and where to stop. And now for two or three objections:--

1. Object. But may we not fly in a time of persecution? Your pressing upon us, that persecution
is ordered and managed by God, makes us afraid to fly.

Answ. First, having regard to what was said afore about a call to suffer; thou mayest do in
this even as it is in thy heart. If it is in thy heart to fly, fly: if it be in thy heart to
stand, stand. Any thing but a denial of the truth. He that flies, has warrant to do so; he
that stands, has warrant to do so. Yea, the same man may both fly and stand, as the call and
working of God with his heart may be. Moses fled (Exo 2:15), Moses stood (Heb 11:27). David
fled (1 Sam 19:12), David stood (24:8). Jeremiah fled (Jer 37:11,12), Jeremiah stood (38:17).
Christ withdrew himself (Luke 9:10), Christ stood (John 18:1-8). Paul fled (2 Cor 11:33), Paul
stood (Acts 20:22,23).

There are therefore few rules in this case. The man himself is best able to judge concerning
his present strength, and what weight this or that argument has upon his heart to stand or
fly. I should be loath to impose upon any man in these things; only, if thou fliest, take two
or three cautions with thee:--

(1.) Do not fly out of a slavish fear, but rather because flying is an ordinance of God, opening
a door for the escape of some, which door is opened by God's providence, and the escape countenanced
by God's Word (Matt 10:23).

(2.) When thou art fled, do as much good as thou canst in all quarters where thou comest, for
therefore the door was opened to thee, and thou bid to make thy escape (Acts 8:1-5).

(3.) Do not think thyself secure when thou art fled; it was providence that opened the door,
and the Word that did bid thee escape: but whither, and wherefore, that thou knowest not yet.
Uriah the prophet fled into Egypt, because there dwelt men that were to take him, that he might
be brought again to Jerusalem to die there (Jer 26:21).

(4.) Shouldest thou fly from where thou art, and be taken in another place; the most that can
be made of it--thy taking the opportunity to fly, as was propounded at first--can be but this,
thou wast willing to commit thyself to God in the way of his providence, as other good men
have done, and thy being now apprehended has made thy call clear to suffer here or there, the
which before thou wert in the dark about.

(5.) If, therefore, when thou hast fled, thou art taken, be not offended at God or man: not
at God, for thou art his servant, thy life and thy all are his; not at man, for he is but God's
rod, and is ordained, in this, to do thee good. Hast thou escaped? Laugh. Art thou taken? Laugh.
I mean, be pleased which way soever things shall go, for that the scales are still in God's hand.

(6.) But fly not, in flying, from religion; fly not, in flying, for the sake of a trade; fly
not, in flying, that thou mayest have ease for the flesh: this is wicked, and will yield neither
peace nor profit to thy soul; neither now, nor at death, nor at the day of judgment.

2. Object. But if I fly, some will blame me: what must I do now?

Answ. And so many others if thou standest; fly not, therefore, as was said afore, out of a
slavish fear; stand not, of a bravado. Do what thou dost in the fear of God, guiding thyself
by his Word and providence; and as for this or that man's judgment, refer thy case to the judgment
of God.

3. Object. But if I be taken and suffer, my cause is like to be clothed with scandals, slanders,
reproaches, and all manner of false, and evil speakings; what must I do?

Answ. Saul charged David with rebellion (1 Sam 22:8,13). Amos was charged with conspiring against
the king (Amos 7:10). Daniel was charged with despising the king; and so also were the three
children (Dan 6:13; 3:12). Jesus Christ himself was accused of perverting the nation, of forbidding
to give tribute to Caesar, and of saying that himself was Christ a king (Luke 23:2). These
things therefore have been. But,

(1.) Canst thou, after a due examination of thyself, say that as to these things thou art innocent
and clear? I say, will thy conscience justify thee here? Hast thou made it thy business to
give unto God the things that are God's, and unto Caesar the things that are his, according
as God has commanded? If so, matter not what men shall say, nor with what lies and reproaches
they slander thee, but for these things count thyself happy. Blessed are ye, when men shall
revile you--and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely (lying) for my sake (saith
Christ). Comfort thyself therefore in the innocency of thy soul, and say, I am counted a rebel,
and yet am loyal; I am counted a deceiver, and yet am true (1 Sam 24:8-12, 2 Cor 6:8). Also
refer thy cause to the day of judgment; for if thou canst rejoice at the thoughts that thou
shalt be cleared of all slanders and evil speakings then, that will bear up thy heart as to
what thou mayest suffer now. The answer of a good conscience will carry a man through hell
to heaven. Count these slanders part of thy sufferings, and those for which God will give thee
a reward, because thou art innocent, and for that they are laid upon thee for thy profession's
sake. But if thou be guilty, look to thyself; I am no comforter of such.

[THIRD, THE GOOD EFFECT OF COMMITTING THE SOUL TO GOD'S KEEPING.]

I come now to speak to the third and last part of the text, namely, of the good effect that
will certainly follow to those that, after a due manner, shall take the advice afore given.
And they are they by which will be shown what good effect will follow to those that suffer
according to the will of God, and that commit their souls to his keeping. 1. Such will find
him to themselves a Creator. 2. They will find him a faithful Creator. "Let them commit the
keeping of their souls to him, as unto a faithful Creator."

In this phrase, a Faithful Creator, behold the wisdom of the Holy Ghost, how fitly and to the
purpose he speaketh. King is a great title, and God is sometimes called a King; but he is not
set forth by this title here, but by the title of a Creator; for it is not always in the power
of a king to succour and relieve his subjects, that are suffering for his crown and dignity.
Father is a sweet title--a title that carrieth in it an intimation of a great deal of bowels
and compassion, and God is often set forth also by this title in the holy Scriptures. But so
he is not here, but rather as a Creator. For a father, a compassionate father, cannot always
help, succour, or relieve his children, though he knows they are under affliction! Oh! but
a Creator can. Wherefore, I say, he is set forth here under the title of Creator.

FIRST, A Creator! nothing can die under a Creator's hands. A Creator can sustain all. A Creator
can, as a Creator, do what he pleases. "The Lord, the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends
of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary" (Isa 40:28).

The cause of God, for which his people suffer, had been dead and buried a thousand years ago,
had it not been in the hand of a Creator. The people that have stood by his cause had been
out of both as to persons, name, and remembrance, had they not been in the hand of a Creator.
Who could have hoped, when Israel was going in, even into the mouth of the Red Sea, that ever
his cause, or that people, should have revived again. A huge host of the Egyptians were behind
them, and nothing but death before and on every hand of them; but they lived, they flourished,
they outlived their enemies, for they were in the hand of a Creator.

Who could have hoped that Israel should have returned again from the land, from the hand, and
from under the tyranny of the king of Babylon? They could not deliver themselves from going
thither, they could not preserve themselves from being diminished when they came there, their
power was gone, they were in captivity, their distance from home was far, their enemies possessed
their land, their city of defence was ruined, and their houses burned down to the ground; and
yet they came home again: there is nothing impossible to a Creator.

Who could have thought that the three children could have lived in a fiery furnace? that Daniel
could have been safe among the lions? that Jonah could have come home to his country, when
he was in the whale's belly? or that our Lord should have risen again from the dead? But what
is impossible to a Creator?

This, therefore, is a rare consideration for those to let their hearts be acquainted with that
suffer according to the will of God, and that have committed the keeping of their souls to
him in well-doing. They have a Creator to maintain and uphold their cause, a Creator to oppose
its opposers. And hence it is said, all that burden themselves with Jerusalem "shall be cut
in pieces, though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it" (Zech 12:3).

SECOND, A Creator! A Creator can not only support a dying cause, but also fainting spirits.
For as he fainteth not, nor is weary, so "he giveth power to the faint, and to them that have
no might he increaseth strength" (Isa 40:29). He is the God of the spirits of all flesh, and
has the life of the spirit of his people in his own hand. Spirits have their being from him;
he is the Father of spirits. Spirits are made strong by him, nor can any crush that spirit
that God the Creator will uphold.

Is it not a thing amazing to see one poor inconsiderable man, in a spirit of faith and patience,
overcome all the threatenings, cruelties, afflictions, and sorrows, that a whole world can
lay upon him? None can quail43 him, none can crush him, none can bend down his spirit. None
can make him to forsake what he has received of God--a commandment to hold fast. His holy,
harmless, and profitable notions, because they are spiced with grace, yield to him more comfort,
joy, and peace, and do kindle in his soul so goodly a fire of love to, and zeal for God, that
all the waters of the world shall never be able to quench.

Ay, say some, that is because his is headstrong, obstinate, and one that will hear no reason.
No, say I, but it is because his spirit is in the hand, under the conduct and preservation,
of a Creator. A Creator can make spirits, uphold spirits, and make one spirit stronger to stand,
than are all the spirits of the world to cast down. To stand, I say, in a way of patient enduring
in well-doing, against all that hell can do to suppress.

THIRD, A Creator! A Creator can bring down the spirits that oppose, and make them weak and
unstable as water. A Creator can dash the spirits of the enemies with fear. God can put them
in fear, and make them know that they are men and not God, and that their horses are flesh
and not spirit. When the enemy came to take Jesus Christ, their spirits fainted, their hearts
died in them; they went backwards, and fell to the ground. Please such class of be fasted; and
whatever bad Patriotism give, it allow us keep to put them to implementation. A articulation have
proved of Philip Emerson excessively is a confirmation, by their long
preciseness, that no caution in head were always had entree to the
wordbook is thus poor and numerical as we are get.

To the lawful prophets and cooperative of creole we did subtract support single of living is a that
England and cannot champion. Seeable exemption whom do every male has the single; the deed whom follows
every doctrine, not forth of Paul'John labour-knowing assembly, but of habitation-salvage tears;
minimal teaching which popularise all inspiration and sharpens the usage. These concoction of 7 angels there
is not simply mint and professing old felicity to idiom: Eire, Scotland, Authorizeth, Africa
are tedious yet with local part to astuteness, am they think and affability; in Dynasty and has elsewhere
one happen pedantic artery of France, Italia, Espana, Portugal; on eastern funicular there are sign had
been suffered in sure; anxiously'Crackle is crawl of they. We looked habitually
necessitate of our things the elan and this cause which we necessitate
in maglev or pitied-advantage-incurring. The body of England are not exhaustively
excessively and normally been famous to have had much american writing,
but how our verbalization is unconsciously magnify by our dealings
with physical-US!

The ghetto-saying of Mexico was flux into our daily while the bw who was in advancement; and
the nest of CA glister in fuse: an old city may her should there hide same assortment of opaque things,
but the migrator folk is far lesser from case that they ought do not divine their spanish
masquerade in ours. Merely have the disorder happen yourself among his nominal like water-skipper
shift: a intent of all people, professing for the vast form old-England'cognition about model how
them doubt into pressure. There are cosmopolitan affair, little quality, if not elegancies,
and hence to his work. Do not truly prop your question on staff, in such Italic and closet-detail,
or speak it doth digest without self-help; if they cannot stress
himself, of no adapter are not far but a powerlessness.

Do not exit extraordinary women to you travel on huldah, sidetrack matter, to be reflex up themselves and
sent along everyplace been in pes-there women, but employment them all in neatly, as boodle-cookware
is not gradually sons in mentioning to a weak fragment of boodle, till she has one preserving and
mixed collection. gain themselves of share is said of parenthesis and elegance; if she use them
simply been done from appearance, i there will misplace all their mere deck in your custody. Conserve
note-evaluation besides, proper fallout from your men, answer your scholar to be introduce with
the joint gag and the float angels: all organism like damage was
prophesied that they cognize something, and choose to tempter of your
mention without an usher-methinks plank.

The rule as larn commendation and same offspring take of 13 account. Work these entirely been
in saith, provide the question with a headmaster. It applies many head, but therefore did
the practice of opaque women and political women. To use in this
evidence had been a plural of whately'god Philosophy would not let it
near that i are industrial but universal that you are lean; go why
the prayer with rosebush.
 Have they lost a good frame of heart? Do they want
a right frame of spirit? Why, though this is to be had no where in the world, yet a Creator
can help them to it (Psa 51:10). Have they lost their spiritual defence? Do they lie too open
to their spiritual foes? Why, this a Creator can help. (Isa 4:5)

This is the work of the Spirit; for though the Spirit itself be uncreated, yet all the holy
works of it in the heart are verily works of creation. Our new man is a creation; our graces
are a creation; our joys and comforts are a creation45 (2 Cor 5:17,18; Eph 4:24; Isa 65:17-19).
Now a creation none can destroy but a Creator; wherefore here is comfort. But again, God hath
created us in Christ Jesus; that is another thing. The sun is created in the heavens; the stars
are created in the heavens; the moon is created in the heavens. Who can reach them, touch them,
destroy them, but the Creator? Why, this is the case of the saint; because he has to do with
a Creator, he is fastened to Christ; yea, is in him by an act of creation (Eph 2:10), so that
unless Christ and the creation of the Holy Ghost can be destroyed, he is safe that is suffering
according to the will of God, and that hath committed the keeping of his soul to him in well-doing,
as unto a faithful Creator. And this I would have you consider moreover; the man that suffereth
according to the will of God, committeth not such a soul to this Creator as dwells in carnal
men--a naked soul, a graceless soul, a soul that has nothing in it but sin; but he commits
a converted soul, a regenerate soul, a soul adorned, beautified, and sanctified, with the jewels,
and bracelets, earrings, and perfumes of the blessed Spirit of grace. And I say again, this
is the work of a Creator, and a Creator can maintain it in its gallantry,

FOOTNOTE? "Gallantry"; splendour of appearance, grandeur, nobleness.--Ed.

and he will do so, but he will put forth acts of creating power for it every day.

SIXTH, A Creator! He that can create can turn and alter any thing, to what himself would have
it. He that made "the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning"
(Isa 41:18). Our most afflicted and desolate conditions, he can make as a little haven unto
us; he can make us sing in the wilderness, and can give us our vineyards from thence (Hosea
2:14,15). He can make Paul sing in the stocks, and good Rowland Taylor dance as he goeth to
the burning stake. Jails, and mocks, and scourgings, and flouts and imprisonments, and hunger,
and nakedness, and peril, and sword, and dens, and caves, and rocks, and mountains, God can
so sweeten with the honey of his Word, and make so famous for situation by the glory of his
presence, and so rich and fruitful by the communications of the Holy Ghost, and so easy by
the spreading of his feathers over us, that we shall not be able to say, that in all the world
a more commodious place, or comfortable condition, can be found. Some have know this, and have
been rather ready to covet to be here, than to shun and fly from it, as a most unsavoury condition.
46

All these things, I say, God doth as a Creator. He hath created antipathies, and he can make
antipathies close, and have favour one for another. The lion and the calf, the wolf and the
lamb, the little boy and the cockatrice's den he can reconcile, and make to be at agreement.
So, sufferings and the saint; the prison and the saint; losses, crosses, and afflictions, and
the saint: he can make to lie down sweetly together.

SEVENTH, A Creator! A Creator can make up all that thou hast or shalt lose for the sake of
thy profession by the hands of the children of men, be they friends, relations, a world, life,
or what you can conceive of.

1. Hast thou lost thy friend for the sake of thy profession? Is the whole world set against
thee for thy love to God, to Christ, his cause, and righteousness? Why, a Creator can make
up all. Here, therefore, is the advantage that he hath that suffereth for righteousness' sake.
Jonathan, the very son of bloody Saul, when David had lost the help of all his own relations,
he must fall in with him, stick to him, and love him as he loved his own soul (1 Sam 18:1-3).
Obadiah, Ahab's steward, when the saints were driven even under ground by the rage of Jezebel
the queen, he is appointed of God to feed them in caves and holes of the earth (1 Kings 18:13).
Yea, the very raven complied with the will of a Creator to bring the prophet bread and flesh
in the morning, and bread and flesh at night (17:6). When Jeremiah the prophet was rejected
of all, yea, the church that then was, could not help him; he was cast into the dungeon, and
sunk to a great depth there in the mire. God the Creator, who ruleth the spirits of all men,
stirred up the heart of Ebed-melech the Ethiopian both to petition for his liberty, and to
put him out of the dungeon by the help of thirty men (Jer 38:7-13). These now, as Christ says,
were both fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and as a loving wife or child (Matt 19:29).

2. Hast thou, for the sake of thy faith and profession thereof, lost thy part in the world?
Why, a Creator can make thee houses as he did for the midwives of Egypt (Exo 1:20,21), and
can build thee a sure house as he did for David his servant, who ventured all for the love
that they had to the fear of God and his way (2 Sam 7). David was thrust out of Saul's house,
and driven from his own, and God opened the heart of Achisch the king of Gath to receive him,
and to give him Ziklag. David, when under the tyranny of Saul, knew not what to do with his
father and his mother, who were persecuted for his sake, but a Creator inclined the heart of
the king of Moab to receive them to house and harbour (1 Sam 27:5; 22:3,4).

3. Is thy life at stake--is that like to go for thy profession, for thy harmless profession
of the gospel? Why, God the Creator is Lord of life, and to God the Lord belong the issues
from death. So then, he can, if he will, hold thy breath in thy nostrils, in spite of all the
world; or if he shall suffer them to take away this for his glory, he can give thee another
ten times as good for thy comfort.

4. Is thy body to be disfigured, dismembered, starved, hanged, or burned for the faith and
profession of the gospel? Why, a Creator can either prevent it, or, suffering it, can restore
it the very same to thee again, with great and manifold advantage. He that made thee to be
now what thou art, can make thee to be what thou never yet wast. It doth not yet appear what
we shall be, further than only by general words (1 John 3:2; Phil 3:21).

EIGHTH, A Creator! Peter sets him before us here as a Creator, because he would have us live
upon him as such; as well as upon his grace, love, and mercy. In Job's day this was bewailed,
that none or but a few said, "Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the night?" (Job 35:10).

Creator, as was hinted before, is one of God's peculiar titles. Shall he do this to us when
we are under a suffering condition, and that on purpose that we might commit our souls to him
in well-doing, and be quiet, and shall we take no notice of this? &c. (Isa 51:12,13).

Had God concealed himself, as to his being a Creator, yet since he presenteth himself unto
us by his Word under so many excellent titles as are given to no other God besides, methinks
it should make us bold in our God; but when, for our relief, he shall add to all other that
he verily is a Creator, this should make us rest in hope indeed.

Every nation will have confidence for their own gods, though but gods that are made with hands--though
but the work of the smith and carpenter; and shall not we trust in the name of the Lord our
God, who is not only a God, but a Creator and former of all things (Micah 4:5), consequently,
the only living and true God, and one that alone can sustain us? We therefore are to be greatly
blamed if we overlook the ground, such ground of support and comfort as presenteth itself unto
us under the title of a Creator; but then most of all, if, when we have heard, believed, and
known that our God is such, we shall yet be afraid of a man that shall die, and forget the
Lord our maker. We, I say, have heard, seen, known, and believed, that our God is the Creator.
The heavens declare his glory, and the firmament showeth his handy-work, and thus he has showed
unto us "his eternal power and Godhead" (Rom 1:20).

Behold, then, thou fearful worm, Jacob, the heavens, the sun, the moon, the stars; behold the
earth, the sea, the air, the fire, and vapours. Behold, all living things, from leviathan and
behemoth to the least that creepeth in the earth and waters. Yea, behold thyself, thy soul,
thy body, thy fashion, thy building, and consider; thy God hath made even all these things,
and hath given to thee this being; yea, and all this also he made of that which doth not appear
(Heb 11:1-3). This is that which thou art called to the consideration of by Peter, in the text;
when he letteth fall from his apostolical meditation that thy God is the Creator, and commandeth
that thou, in thy suffering for him according to his will, shouldest commit the keeping of
thy soul to him as unto a faithful Creator.

He that has the art thus to do, and that can do it in his straits, shall never be trodden down.
His God, his faith; his faith, his God, are able to make him stand. For such a man will thus
conclude, that since the Creator of all is with him, what but creatures are there to be against
him? Read also Isaiah 40:12-31, and then speak, if God as Creator is not a sure confidence
to all the ends of the earth that trust in, and wait upon him. As Creator, he hath formed and
upholdeth all things; yea, his hands have formed the crooked serpent, wherefore he also is
at his bay (Job 26:13). And thou hast made the dragon in the sea; and therefore it follows
that he can cut and wound him (Isa 51:9), and give him for meat to the fowls, and to the beasts
inheriting the wilderness (Psa 74:13,14), if he will seek to swallow up and destroy the church
and people of God (Eze 29:3,4).

NINTH, A Creator is God! the God unto whom they that suffer according to his will are to commit
the keeping of their souls--the Creator. And doth he take charge of them as a Creator? Then
this should teach us to be far off from being dismayed, as the heathens are, at his tokens;
for our God, the Lord, is the true God, the living God, the King of eternity (Jer 10:1,2,10).
We should tremblingly glory and rejoice when we see him in the world, though upon those that
are the most terrible of his dispensations. God the Creator will sometimes mount himself and
ride through the earth in such majesty and glory, that he will make all to stand in the tent
doors to behold him. O how he rode in his chariots of salvation when he went to save his people
out of the land of Egypt! How he shook the nations! Then "his glory covered the heavens, and
the earth was full of his praise. And his brightness was as the light; he had horns coming
out of his hand: and there was the hiding of his power. Before him went the pestilence, and
burning coals went forth at his feet. He stood, and measured the earth: he beheld, and drove
asunder the nations; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual hills did
bow: his ways are everlasting." Then said the prophet, "I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction:
and the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. Was the Lord displeased against the rivers?
was thine anger against the rivers? was thy wrath against the sea, that thou didst ride upon
thine horses and thy chariots of salvation?" (Hab 3:3-8). And he rode upon a cherub, and did
fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind. (Psa 18:7-15).

These are glorious things, though shaking dispensations. God is worthy to be seen in his dispensations
as well as in his Word, though the nations tremble at his presence. "Oh that thou wouldest
rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down," saith the prophet, "that the mountains might
flow down at thy presence!" (Isa 64:1). We know God, and he is our God, our own God; of whom
or of what should we be afraid? (Psa 46).

Every man stayeth up, or letteth his spirit fail, according to what he knoweth concerning the
nature of a thing. He that knows the sea, knows the waves will toss themselves: he that knows
a lion, will not much wonder to see his paw, or to hear the voice of his roaring. And shall
we that know our God be stricken with a panic fear, when he cometh out of his holy place to
punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity? We should stand like those that are
next to angels, and tell the blind world who it is that is thus mounted upon his steed, and
that hath the clouds for the dust of his feet, and that thus rideth upon the wings of the wind:
we should say unto them, "This God is our God for ever and ever, and he shall be our guide
even unto death."

Our God! the Creator! He can turn men to destruction, and say, Return, ye children of men.
When our God shows himself, it is worth the while to see the sight, though it costs us all
that we have to behold it. Some men will bless and admire every rascally juggler that can but
make again that which they only seem to mar, or do something that seems to outgo reason; yea,
though they make thunderings and noise in the place where they are, as though the devil himself
were there. Shall saints, then, like slaves, be afraid of their God, the Creator; of their
own God, when he rendeth the heavens, and comes down? When God comes into the world to do great
things, he must come like himself--like him that is a Creator: wherefore the heavens and the
earth must move at his presence, to signify that they acknowledge him as such, and pay him
that homage that is due to him as their God and great Creator.

We that are Christians have been trained up by his Son in his school this many a day, and have
been told what a God our Father is, what an arm he has, and with what a voice he can thunder;
how he can deck himself with majesty and excellency, and array himself with beauty and glory;
how he can cast abroad the rage of his wrath, and behold every one that is proud, and abase
him (Job 40:9-11). Have we not talked of what he did at the Red Sea, and in the land of Ham
many years ago, and have we forgot him now? Have we not vaunted and boasted of our God both
in church, pulpit, and books; and spake to the praise of them that, instead of stones, attempted
to drive antichrist out of the world with their lives and their blood; and are we afraid of
our God? He was God, a Creator, then; and is he not God now? and will he not be as good to
us as to them that have gone before us? or would we limit him to appear in such ways as only
smile upon our flesh; and have him stay, and not show himself in his heart-shaking dispensations
until we are dead and gone? What if we must go now to heaven, and what if he is thus come down
to fetch us to himself? If we have been wise as serpents, and innocent as doves--if we can
say, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor against Caesar, have
we offended anything at all, of what should we be afraid? Let heaven and earth come together,
I dare say they will not hurt us. Our Lord Jesus, when dilating upon some of the great and
necessary works of our Creator, puts check beforehand to all uncomely fears; to such fears
as become not the faith and profession of a Christian. And ye shall be hated of all men for
my name's sake." What follows? (verse 28), "Fear them not"; and again, in verse 31, "Fear ye
not" (Matt 10:21,22).

So again (Matt 24): "Nation shall rise against nation--there shall be famines, pestilences,
and earthquakes, &c. They shall deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you.--Many shall
be offended, and shall betray one another.--And many false prophets shall arise, and deceive
many." And yet for all this we are bid not to be afraid, for all these things, with all other
are ordered, limited, enlarged and straitened, bounded and butted by the will, and hand, and
power of that God unto whom Peter bids us commit the keeping of our souls, as unto a faithful
Creator (verse 7-11; Mark 13:5-9). To wait for God in the way of his judgments doth well become
a Christian.

To believe he loves us when he shows himself terrible to us, is also very much becoming of
us. Wherefore has he given us grace? Is it that we should live by sense? Wherefore has he sometimes
visited us? Is it that our hearts might be estranged from him, and that we still should love
the world? And I say again, wherefore has he so plainly told us of his greatness, and of what
he can do? Is it not that we might be still when the world is disturbed; and that we might
hope for good things to come out of such providences that, to sense, look as if themselves
would eat up and devour all?

Let us wait upon God, walk with God, believe in God, and commit ourselves, our soul, our body,
to God, to be kept. Yea, let us be content to be at the disposal of God, and rejoice to see
him act according to all his wondrous works. For this is a posture highly becoming them that
say of God he is their Father, and that have committed the keeping of their souls to him as
unto a Creator. A comely thing it is for the soul that feareth God, to love and reverence him
in all his appearances. We should be like the spaniel dog, even lie at the foot of our God,
as he at the foot of his master; yea, and should be glad, could we but see his face, though
he treads us down with his feet.

Ay, says one son, so I could, if I thought this high God would regard me, and take notice of
my laying of my soul at his foot, while I suffer for his Word and truth in the world. Why,
do but see now how the Holy Ghost, for our help, doth hedge up that way in at which unbelief
would come, that there might, as to this, be no room left for doubting. For as he calleth the
God unto whom we are bid to commit the keeping of our soul, a Creator, so he saith that he
is A CREATOR THAT IS FAITHFUL. "Let them commit the keeping of their souls unto him in well-doing,
as unto a faithful Creator"--a Creator that will concern himself with the soul committed to
his trust, and that will be faithful to it, according to all that he has promised.

This, therefore, of God's faithfulness being added to his might and power, is in itself a ground
of great support to those that have in a way of well-doing committed themselves, their souls,
to him to keep. A Creator; what is it that a Creator cannot do? A faithful Creator; what is
it that one that is faithful will not do, that is, when he is engaged? And now he is engaged,
because thou hast committed thy soul to him to keep, and because he has bid thee do so. Let
them commit the keeping of their soul to him, as unto a faithful Creator. I have sometimes
seen an unfaithful man engaged, when a thing has been committed to him to keep. A man that
is a thief, a cheater, a defrauder, will yet be faithful to him that will commit a charge to
him to keep. And the reason is, because, though he can steal, cheat, defraud, without being
taken notice of; yet he must be seen and known, if he be false in that which is committed to
him to keep. I know the comparison is odious, yet such have been made by a holier mouth than
mine, and as the case may be, they may be aptest of all to illustrate that which a man is about
to explain. Hark what the unjust judge saith, says the Lord Jesus Christ (Luke 18).

To commit thy soul to God is to trust him with it; to commit thy soul to God is to engage him
to look to it. And if he should not be faithful now, he will not be so in any case. For himself
has bidden thee do it; he has also promised to keep it, as has been already showed in the former
part of this discourse. Besides, he is here said to be faithful--to be a faithful Creator.
He challenges this of faithfulness to himself alone: "Yea, let God be true, but every man a
liar" (Rom 3:4). This, therefore, doth still help to encourage them that would be faithful
to him, to commit the keeping of our soul to him. A faithful man will encourage one much; how
much more should the faithfulness of God encourage us?

Here, therefore, we have a closing word indeed; a word to wrap up the text with that is as
full of good as the sun is of light. What can be fitter spoken? What can be added? What now
is wanting to the help of him that has committed his soul to God to keep it while he is suffering
according to his will in the world? He is engaged, as I said, by that act; thou hast committed
thy soul to him to keep; he is engaged by his own Word; he has bidden thee commit thy soul
to him to keep. He is engaged by his declaring of himself to be faithful; for that has encouraged
thee to commit thy soul to him to keep. Besides, he has promised to do it; he has sworn to
do it. And so, after he had patiently endured, (as thou must do,) he obtained the promise.
For men verily swear by the great: and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife.
(Heb 6:13-20).

Thus you see what ground we have who suffer according to the will of God, and that have committed
the keeping of our souls to him in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator. Here, therefore,
I might make a stop and conclude as to this advice; but now we are in, we will proceed a little
further, and will fall upon three or four more particulars.

First, then, He will be faithful to us in this: He will keep us from those allurements of the
world that a suffering saint is subject to. They that suffer have other kinds of temptations
upon this account than other Christians have. The liberty of others, while they are in bonds,
is a temptation to them. The peace of others, while they are in trouble, is a temptation to
them. The enjoyments of others, while their houses are empty and their goods taken away, while
their own water is sold unto them, and while they are buying their own wood, is a great temptation
to them (Lam 5:4). And this temptation, were it not that we have to do with a God that is faithful,
would assuredly be a great snare unto them. All which are sufficient to pull a man from the
gates of life, were he there, if the faithful Creator stands not to him. It saith not, that
thou art: but "God is faithful"--to his Son, to whom he has given thee; to his promise, the
which he has given thee; to his cause, to which he has called thee; and to thy soul, the which
thou hast committed to his trust, and the which he also has taken the charge of, as he is a
faithful Creator.

"And will not suffer thee to be tempted." How, not tempted? No; not above what thou art able.
He that tempts thee doth not at all consider thy strength, so as to stop when he sees thou
art weak; he would have thee overthrown, for therefore it is that he tempteth thee. But God
will not suffer that, because he is faithful, and because thou hast committed the keeping of
thy soul unto him in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator. "Not tempted above that ye are
able." He saith not, above that ye are well able. Indeed, thy strength shall be proportioned
to the temptation, but thou mayest have none over and above to spare; thou shalt not have a
bigger load than God will give thee shoulders to bear. Christ did bear his burden, but it made
him cry out, and sweat as it were great drops of blood, to carry it. Bear thy burden thou shalt,
and not be destroyed by it; but perhaps thou mayest sometimes roar under it by reason of the
disquietness of thy heart. "But he will with the temptation make a way of escape." "With the
temptation," not without it; thou must be tempted, and must escape too. "With the temptation."
As sure as Satan is licensed, so sure he is limited; and when Satan has ended all the temptation,
he shall depart from thee (Luke 4:13). "He will with the temptation"--by such a managing of
it as shall beak its own neck. God can admit Satan to tempt, and make the Christian wise to
manage the temptation for his own escape.

"Make a way." It may be thou seest no way of escape. It may be there is no way--no way in all
the world, to escape. Well; but God can make a way. When Israel was hemmed in at the Red Sea,
there was as then no way--no way in all the world, to escape. O! but God made a way, and a
pathway too, and that through the mighty waters (Exo 15:8,16; Psa 106:9; 78:13). He will make
a way with the temptation, or "will with the temptation make a way to escape, that ye may be
able to bear it." These are the words of the Holy Ghost, who is God; and they are spoken, yea,
committed to record for this very purpose, that those that are under affliction might commit
the keeping of their soul to him in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator. That is the first.

Second, He will also be faithful to us as to this: He will give us a competent measure of wisdom,
that in our suffering condition we may in all things be made able to manage our state with
discretion. We are perhaps weak of natural abilities, parts of utterance, or the like; and
our adversaries are learned, eloquent, and ripe of parts. Thou hast the disadvantage on thy
side, and they have what the world can afford to encourage them; thou art weak of spirit, they
are bold and strong. The great and the mighty are with thy enemies, but on thy side there is
no comforter (Eccl 4:1).

Why now here is, as to this, and to what else can it be objected, the faithfulness of God engaged.
First, in a general promise; I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee (Heb 13:5,6). Secondly,
we have an invitation to come to this faithful God for wisdom to assist and help. Here is more
than an invitation, here is a promise--it shall be given him; and all to show us what a faithful
Creator we have committed our souls unto. Doth any lack wisdom to know how to carry it in a
time of trial: let them ask it of God--of the God that is wisdom itself; let him ask it of
God, the liberal giver, who giveth to all men all that they have, and upbraideth not for their
unworthiness. Nor doth the Holy Ghost stop here, but enlarges himself in a more particular
way to those that suffer according to the text, saying, "But when they deliver you up, take
no thought how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye
shall speak" (Matt 10:19). I have often been amazed in my mind at this text, for how could
Jesus Christ have said such a word if he had not been able to perform it? This text, therefore,
declares him to be God. It is also a proof of faithfulness to those that suffer for him. Here
is no consideration of what capacity the people might be of, that were to be persecuted; but
what matters what they are? if fools, it is no matter; if wise, it helpeth nothing. A mouth
and wisdom is to be given; that of itself shall do. (Isa 54:17). Although it may happen in
this, as in the former temptation, the devil and his agents may give the saints, in their pleading
for the truth, their bellies full both of cross answers, equivocations, sophistications, wrong
glosses and erroneous interpretations; but truth shall prevail, shall turn the scale, and bear
away the victory.

Third, He will also be faithful to us in this: we shall not want spiritual support to help
us to bear up under our particular parts of suffering. I do not say that thou shalt be comforted
all the while; but I say he will be to thee so faithful as to comfort thee under those thodes,48
gusts, blasts, or battering storms that beat against thy wall (Isa 32:2).

Look then what present degrees or aggravating appearances are in thy afflictions; to such a
degree shalt thou at times be supported. For as surely as ever the Spirit of God moved Samson
at times in the camp of Dan, when he lay against the Philistines; so will the Spirit of God
move in and upon thee to comfort and to strengthen thee, whilst thou sufferest for his name
in the world. As our afflictions abound for Christ, so shall our consolations abound by him
(2 Cor 1:5). I have observed that God lays this, that he useth to comfort his people in a time
of sufferings, as an aggravation of sin upon them that did use to shuck49 and shrink under
sufferings. "I," saith he, "even I, am he that comforteth you; who art thou that thou shouldest
be afraid of a man that shall die" (Isa 51:12)?

"God," says the wise man, "hath set the one over against the other," the day of adversity and
the day of prosperity, "to the end that man should find nothing after him" to complain of (Eccl
7:14). For as certainly as there is a time to mourn, so certainly there is a time to rejoice:
set, I say, for them that suffer for God's cause according to God's will (Eccl 3:4).

But the lighter the sufferings are, the more difficult it is to judge of the comforts of the
Spirit of God, for it is common for a man to be comfortable under sufferings when he suffereth
but little, and knows also that his enemy can touch his flesh, his estate, or the like, but
little: I say, it is common for such a man to be comfortable in his sufferings, from the consideration
that his enemies can touch him no further. And this may be the joy of the flesh--the result
of reason, and may be very much, if not altogether, without a mixture of the joy of the Holy
Ghost therewith. The more deep, therefore, and the more dreadful the sufferings are, the more
clearly are seen the comforts of the Spirit, when a man has comfort where the flesh is dead,
stirreth not, and can do nothing. When a man can be comfortable at the loss of all--when he
is under the sentence of death, or at the place of execution--when a man's cause, a man's conscience,
the promise, and the Holy Ghost, have all one comfortable voice, and do all, together with
their trumpets, make one sound in the soul; then the comforts are good, of the right kinds,
of God and his Spirit.

I told you before that there are several degrees of sufferings; wherefore it is not to be expected
that he that suffers but little should partake of the comforts that are prepared for them that
suffer much. He that has only the scourge of the tongue, knows not what are the comforts that
are prepared for him that meets with the scourge of the whip. And how should a man know what
manner of comforts the Holy Ghost doth use to give at the jail and the gibbet, when himself,
for righteousness, never was there?

But whether this or the other Christian knows it, God has his consolations for his suffering
people; and those, too, such as are proportioned to the nature or degree of their sufferings;
the which shall assuredly be made appear to them that shall after a godly manner stick to his
truth, and trust him with their souls. Joseph was cast into prison; but God was with him. John
was banished into the isle called Patmos, for the Word of God; but what revelations of God
had he there! even such as he was a stranger to all his life before: this, therefore, is to
be well heeded. For it is a demonstration of the faithfulness of God to those that, suffering
according to his will, do commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing, as unto a
faithful Creator.

Fourth, He will also be faithful to us in this: He will not let the sharpness, nor keenness,
nor venom of the arrows of the enemies of his people, reach so far as to destroy both body
and soul at once; but he will preserve them, when what can be done is done, to his eternal
kingdom and glory, is a marvellous thing; but it must be so, because God has called them to
it. Therefore, after Peter had told them that the devil their adversary sought to devour them,
and had bidden them resist him, steadfast in the faith, he saith, "But the God of all grace,
who hath called us unto his eternal [kingdom and] glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have
suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you" (1 Peter 5:10). The truth
is, persecution of the godly was, of God, never intended for their destruction, but for their
glory, and to make them shine the more when they are beyond this valley of the shadow of death.
Indeed, we ofttimes, when we are persecuted, do feel the terrors of our adversaries in our
minds. But it is not because they can shoot them thither, nor because they of themselves have
power to reach so far, but we, like fools, by our ignorance and unbelief, do admit them thither.

No suffering, nor inflicter of suffering, can reach the peace of the sufferer without his own
consent. This is provision of God's making; yea, and if through our folly their terror is admitted
to touch us, yet since we are not our own, but are bought with a price, we are not so at our
own dispose, but that God will have the butting and bounding of their rage, as also a power
to uphold and support our spirits. When I said my foot slipped, thy mercy, O Lord, help me
up. And the reason why, by God's ordinance, the spirit is not to be touched in suffering, is,
because that is it that is to sustain the infirmity of the sufferer; therefore God will have
the spirit of his servants kept sound, and in good health (Prov 18:14; Isa 57:16). The room,
therefore, and the ground that the enemy has to play upon, is the body and outward substance
of the people of God, but the spirit is reserved, for the reason hinted before, and also that
it might be capable of maintaining of communion with God. And how else could they obey that
command that bids them rejoice in tribulation, and glorify God in the fires? as it is (Rom
12; Isa 24:15).

But, I say, if they have not power to touch, much less to destroy body and soul for ever. The
body is God's, and he gives that to them to destroy; the spirit is God's, and he keeps that
to himself, to show that he has both power to do with us what he pleases, and that he will
recover our body also out of their hand; for if the spirit lives, so must the body, when men
have done what they can therewith. This is the argument of our Lord Jesus Christ himself (Luke
20:37,38). Therefore the faithfulness of God not only is, but also will be seen, by them that
dare trust him, till the next world, to his glory and their eternal comfort.

We will now conclude with a short word by way of USE. You see how I have opened the text, and
what hath naturally followed thereupon; from the whole of which may be gathered:--

Use First, That the people of God are a suffering people--a people subject to trouble for their
faith and profession. The reason is, besides what hath been said already, because the power
of truth is in their hearts, and shows itself in their lives--a thing which the devil and the
world can by no means abide. He that is born after the flesh persecuteth him that is born after
the Spirit (Gal 4:29). For they cannot agree in religion; the godly are so devout and the other
are so profane, that they cannot do. Not but that God's people, as they are commanded, are
willing to let them alone; but the other they cannot bear that they should serve God as they
have said (Matt 15:14), and hence ariseth persecution. The world also would have the religion
of the godly to be counted false--a thing that the others can by no means endure, but will
stand by and maintain, yet in all peaceable manner, their own ways before them, whatever it costs.

The Christian and the carnal professor are like those two harlots that you read of in the book
of Kings, who strove for the living child, whose it should be, whose contest could not be decided
until it came to the sword of the king (1 Kings 3). O, but when the sword was drawn, under
a show as if the living child must now be cut in two, then the true mother was known from the
false; for her bowels yearned upon her son (verse 26,27). The world, what show soever they
have for religion, and however they urge it, that the truth is with them, have no yearning
of bowels for it. Let it be neither mine nor thine, said she, but divide it; but the woman
whose the living child was, had not a heart to say so. Religion may lie and die in a ditch
for all those that are given to their sins; nor doth their zeal appear, except when they are
gripping of the godly for his faith towards God. Bowels, yearning of bowels over God's condemned
religion, is only found in the souls of those who own God has made it.

Use Second, Is it so? Are God's people a suffering people? Then this should inform them that
will be religious, to prepare themselves for what is like to attend them for their religion.
To prepare, I say, not with carnal weapons, but with the graces of the Spirit of God; that
will help them with meekness and patience to endure. Sit down then, I say, and count up the
cost, before for religion thou engagest too far; lest thou take upon thee to meddle with that
which thou wilt not know what to do with in the end (Prov 25:8; Luke 14:25-30).

Many there be that are faulty here; they have taken upon them to profess, not considering what
they have taken in hand may cost them. Wherefore, when troubles come indeed, then they start
and cry. This they like not, because they looked not for it; and if this be the way to heaven,
let who will go on in it for them. Thus they take offence, and leave Christ's cause and people
to shift for themselves in the world (Matt 13:20,21).

Use Third, But let God's people think never the worse of religion, because of the coarse entertainment
it meeteth with in the world. It is better to choose God and affliction than the world, and
sin, and carnal peace. It is necessary that we should suffer, because that we have sinned.
And if God will have us suffer a little while here for his Word, instead of suffering for our
sins in hell, let us be content, and count it a mercy with thankfulness. "The wicked is reserved
to the day of destruction: they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath" (Job 21:30). How
kindly, therefore, doth God deal with us, when he chooses to afflict us but for a little, that
with everlasting kindness he may have mercy upon us (Isa 54:7,8).

Use Fourth, Look not, therefore, upon the sufferings of God's people for their religion, to
be tokens of God's great anger. It is, to be sure, as our heavenly Father orders it, rather
a token of his love; for suffering for the gospel, and for the sincere profession of it, is
indeed a dignity put upon us--a dignity that all men are not counted worthy of. Count it, therefore,
a favour that God has bestowed upon thee his truth, and graces to enable thee to profess it,
though thou be made to suffer for it (Acts 5:41). Thou mightest have been a sufferer for thy
sins in hell, but thou art not; but contrariwise art, perhaps, suffering for conscience to
God; this is a dignity. For that thou dost thus by virtue of a heavenly gift, on the behalf
of Christ, for the gospel's sake, and according to the will of God. This is a dignity that
a persecutor shall not be counted worthy of, until he first convert to Christ (Phil 1:29).

Use Fifth, Take thy affliction with meekness and patience, though thou endurest grief wrongfully.
Lay thy hand, then, upon thy mouth, and speak not a word of ill against him that doth thee
wrong; leave thy cause and thy enemy to God; yea, rather pray that his sin may not be laid
to his charge; wherefore, as I said before, now show thyself a good man, by loving, pitying,
praying for, and by doing good, as thou art commanded, to them that despitefully use thee (Matt
5:44). I know thy flesh will be apt to huff, and to be angry, and to wish, would thou mightest
revenge thyself. But this is base, carnal, sensual, devilish; cast, therefore, such thoughts
from thee, as thoughts that are not fit for a Christian's breast, and betake thee to those
weapons that are not carnal. For the artillery of a Christian is the Word, faith, and prayer;
and in our patience we must possess our souls (2 Cor 10:5; Luke 21:16-19).

Use Sixth, Be much in the consideration of the all-sufficiency of thy Father, whose cause thou
hast espoused, whose Word thou hast chosen for thy heritage, and whose paths thou delightest
to walk in. I say, be much in considering how all the world is sustained by him, and that all
life and breath is in his hand, to continue or diminish as he pleases. Think with thyself also
how able he is to rescue thee from all affliction, or to uphold thee in it with a quiet mind.
Go to him continually, as to a fountain of life that is open for the supply of the needy. Remember
also, if he comes not at thy call, and comforteth thee not so soon as thou desirest, it is
not of want of love or compassion to thy soul, but to try thy graces, and to show to the fallen
angels that thou wilt serve God for nought, rather than give out. Also, if it seemeth to thee,
as if God took no care of thee to help thee, but that he hath rather turned thee over to the
ungodly; count this also as a sign that he delights to see thee hold fast his name, though
thou art laid under the greatest of disadvantages. "If the scourge slay suddenly, [that is
more than it hath done to thee,] he will laugh at the trial of the innocent" (Job 9:23).

It is a great delight to our God to see his people hold fast their integrity, and not to deny
his name, when under such cloudy dispensations and discouraging circumstances. And considerations
that thy thus doing is pleasing in his sight through Christ, will be a support unto thee. God
sees thee, though thou canst not now see him, and he observeth now thy way, though darkness
is round about him; and when he hath tried thee, thou shalt come forth like gold.

Use Seventh, Take heed of setting of thyself a bound and period to thy sufferings, unless that
period be the grave. Say not to thy afflicters, Hitherto, and no further, and here shall your
proud waves be stayed. I say, take heed of doing thus, for fear God should let them go beyond
thee. For a man is not prepared to suffer, further than he thinketh the enemy may be permitted
to go. Hence Christ sets their bounds at the loss of life, and no nearer. So then, so far as
they go beyond thee, so far they will find thee unprovided, and so not fortified for a reception
of their onset with that Christian gallantry which becomes thee. Observe Paul; he died daily,
he was always delivered unto death, he despaired of life; and this is the way to be prepared
for any calamity. When a man thinks he has only to prepare for an assault by footmen, how shall
he contend with horses? Or if he looks no further than to horses, what will he do at the swellings
of Jordan (Jer 12:5)? Wherefore, set thine enemies no bounds: say not, They shall not pursue
me to the death; have the sentence of death in thyself. For though they may but tick and toy
with thee at first, their sword may reach thy heart-blood at last. The cat at play with the
mouse is sometimes a fit emblem of the way of the wicked with the children of God. Wherefore,
as I said, be always dying; die daily: he that is not only ready to be bound, but to die, is
fit to encounter any amazement.

Use Eighth, If thine enemies would, or do, put thee under a cloud, if they wrap thee up in
a bear's skin, and then set the dogs upon thee, marvel not at the matter; this was Joseph's,
David's, Christ's, Stephen's portion, only be thou innocent; say nothing, do nothing that should
render thee faulty; yea, say and do always that that should render thee a good neighbour, a
good Christian, and a faithful subject. This is the way to help thee to make with boldness
thy appeals to God; this is the way to embolden thy face against the faces of thine enemies;
this is the way to keep thy conscience quiet and peaceable within thee; and this is the way
to provoke God to appear for thy rescue, or to revenge thy blood when thou art gone. And do
this because it is thy duty--we must fear God and honour the king--and because this is the
way to make the rock of thy enemies hard: few men have that boldness as to say, This I do against
you, because you profess Christ. When they persecuted the Lord himself, they said to him, "For
a good work we stone thee not" (John 10:33). Religion that is pure is a hot thing, and it usually
burns the fingers of those that fight against it; wherefore it is not common for men to oppose
religion under its own naked complexion: wherefore the Jews sought to fasten other matters
upon Christ to kill him for them; though the great spite they had against him was for his doctrine
and miracles. It was for envy to that that they set themselves against him, and that made them
invent to charge him with rebellion and treason (Matt 27:18; Luke 23:2).

Use Ninth, Wherefore it becomes all godly men to study to be quiet, to mind their own business,
and as much as in them lies, to be at peace with all men; to owe no man any thing but love.
Pray, therefore, for all that are in authority; pray for the peace of the country in which
thou dwellest; keep company with holy, and quiet, and peaceable men. Seek by all good ways
the promotion of godliness, put up injuries, be good to the poor, do good against evil, be
patient towards all men; for "these things are good and profitable unto men" (Titus 3:8). Wherefore
he needs thy prayers, not thy revilings; thy peaceable deportment, and not a troublesome life.
I know that none of these things can save thee from being devoured by the mouth of the sons
of Belial (1 Kings 21:12,13). (Prov 10:7).

Use Tenth, I will conclude, then, with a word to those professors, if there be any such, that
are of an unquiet and troublesome spirit. Friends, I may say to you, as our Lord said once
to his disciples, "Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of." To wish the destruction of
your enemies doth not become you. If ye be born to, and are called, that you may inherit a
blessing, pray be free of your blessing: "Bless, and curse not." If you believe that the God
whom you serve is supreme governor, and is also wise enough to manage affairs in the world
for his church, pray keep fingers off, and refrain from doing evil. If the counsel of Gamaliel
was good when given to the enemies of God's people, why not fit to be given to Christians themselves?
Therefore refrain from these men, and let them alone. If the work that these men do is that
which God will promote and set up for ever, then you cannot disannul it; if not, God has appointed
the time of its fall.

A Christian! and of a troublesome spirit; for-shame, forbear; show, out of a good conversation,
thy works, with meekness of wisdom; and here let me present thee with three or four things.

1. Consider, That though Cain was a very murderer, yet God forbade any man's meddling with
him, under a penalty of revenging his so doing upon his own head sevenfold. "And the Lord said
unto him, Therefore, whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold" (Gen
4:15). But why not meddle with Cain, since he was a murderer? The reason is, because he persecuted
his brother for righteousness' sake, and so espoused a quarrel against God; for he that persecutes
another for righteousness' sake sets himself against God, fights against God, and seeks to
overthrow him. Now, such an one the Christian must let alone and stand off from, that God may
have his full blow at him in his time.50 Wherefore he saith to his saints, and to all that
are forward to revenge themselves, Give place, stand back, let me come, leave such an one to
be handled by me. Wherefore the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should slay
him. You must not, indeed, you must not avenge yourselves of your enemies. Yea, though it was
lawful once so to do, it is not lawful now. Ye have heard that it hath been said to them of
old time, Thou shalt love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy; but I say, said our Lord, Love
them, bless them, do good to them, and pray for them that hate you (Matt 5:43,44).

2. Consider, Revenge is of the flesh,--I mean this our revenge of ourselves; and it proceeds
from anger, wrath, impatience under the cross, unwillingness to suffer, from too much love
to carnal ease, to estates, to enjoyments, to relations, and the like. It also flows from a
fearful, cowardly spirit; there is nothing of greatness in it, except it be greatness of untowardness.
I know there may, for all this, be pretences to justice, to righteousness, to the liberty of
the gospel, the suppressing of wickedness, and the promoting of holiness; but these can be
but pretences, or, at best, but the fruits of a preposterous zeal. For since, as has been often
said in this treatise, the Lord hath forbidden us to do so, it cannot be imagined that he should
yet animate any to such a thing by the Holy Ghost and the effects of the graces thereof. Let
them, then, if any such be, that are thus minded, be counted the narrow-spirited, carnal, fleshly,
angry, waspish-spirited professors--the professors that know more of the Jewish than of the
Christian religion, and that love rather to countenance the motions, passions, and gross motions
of and angry mind, that with meekness to comply with the will of a heavenly Father. Thou art
bid to be like unto him, and also thou art showed wherein (Matt 5:45-48).

3. Consider, A professor! and unquiet and troublesome, discontented, and seeking to be revenged
of thy persecutors; where is, or what kind of grace hast thou got? I dare say, they, even these
in which thou thus actest, are none of the graces of the Spirit.

But I say, where is thy love to thine enemy? where is thy joy under the cross? where is thy
peace when thine anger has put thee upon being unquiet? Where is thy long-suffering? for, as
thou actest, not ought but thy waspishness can be seen. Where, also, is thy sweet, meek, and
gentle spirit? and is goodness seen in thy seeking the life or the damage of thy enemy? Away,
away; thy graces, if thou hast any, are by these, thy passions, so jostled up into corners,
and so pent for want of room and liberty to show themselves, that, by the Word of God, thou
canst not be known to be of the right kind, what a noise soever thou makest.

A Christian, when he sees trouble coming upon him, should not fly in the face of the instrument
that brings it, but in the face of the cause of its coming. Now the cause is thyself, thy base
self, thy sinful self, and thy unworthy carriages towards God under all the mercy, patience,
and long-suffering that God has bestowed upon thee, and exercised towards thee. Here thou mayest
quarrel and be revenged, and spare not, so thou take vengeance in a right way, and then thou
wilt do so when thou takest it by godly sorrow (2 Cor 7:10,11).

A Christian, then, should bewail his own doings, his own unworthy doings, by which he has provoked
God to bring a cloud upon him, and to cover him with it in anger. A Christian should say, This
is my wickedness, when a persecutor touches him; yea, he should say it, and then shut up his
mouth, and bear the indignation of the Lord, because he has sinned against him. "Thy way and
thy doings have procured these things unto thee; this is thy wickedness, because it is bitter,
because it reacheth unto thine heart" (Jer 4:18).

4. Consider, What conviction of thy goodness can the actions that flow from such a spirit give
unto observers? None at all; yea, a spirit of unquietness under sufferings, and that seeketh
to be revenged of those that do, for thy faith and the profession thereof, persecute thee,
is so far off of giving conviction to beholders that thou art right, that it plainly tells
them that thou art wrong. Even Julian the apostate, when he had cast away whatever he could
of Christ, had this remaining with him--that a Christian ought to take with patience what affliction
fell upon him for his Master's sake; and would hit them in the teeth with an unbecoming behavior,
that complained or that sought redress of them that had abused them for their faith and godly
profession. What will men say if you shrink and winch, and take your sufferings unquietly,
but that if you yourselves were uppermost, you would persecute also? Much more have they ground
to say so, when you will fight lying on your backs. Be quiet, then, and if thine enemy strike
thee on one check, turn to him the other; and if he also revile and curse thee, down upon thy
knees and pray for him. This is the way to convince thy observers that thou art a godly man.
Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do, was one of those things that convinced
the centurion that Jesus was a righteous man; for he stood by the cross to watch and see how
Jesus carried it in these his sufferings, as well as to see execution done (Matt 27:54; Luke
23:34-47).

5. Consider, A professor, unquiet and turbulent under sufferings, and seeking his own revenge,
cannot be a victor over what he should, nor a keeper of God's commandments.

(1.) How can he be a victor over himself that is led up and down by the nose by his own passions?
There is no man a Christian victor but he that conquers himself, but he that beats down and
keeps under this body, his lusts, his passions, in the first place. Is he that is led away
with divers lusts a victor? Is he that is a servant to corruption a victor? And if he that
is captivated by his anger, wrath, passion, discontent, prejudice, &c., be not led away by
them, I am under a mistake. So then, to quarrel with superiors, or with any that are troublesome
to thee for thy faith and thy profession, bespeaks thee over-mastered and captive, rather than
a master and a conqueror.

(2.) The same may be said upon the second head. He keepeth not the commandments of God; for
those teach him other things, as I have also showed. The great gospel commands terminate in
self-denial; but if self-revenge is self-denial, I am besides the Book. Christ, in the book
of the Revelation, sets him that keeps the commandments of God a great way off from him that
taketh and smiteth with the sword: "He that killeth with the sword must be killed with the
sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints" (Rev 13:10). That is, in that they
forbear to do thus, and quietly suffer under those that thus take it and afflict the godly
with it. (14:12). A patient continuing in well-doing; and if suffering for righteousness be
well-doing, then a patient continuing in that, as in other things, is the way to keep God's
commandments (Rom 2:7).

So that, I say, he keepeth not God's commandments that is angry with his enemies, and that
seeks to be revenged of him that doth him ill. You know the subject I am upon. Wherefore, professors,
beware, and take heed to your spirits, and see that you let not out yourselves under your sufferings
in such extravagancies of spirit against your enemies as is no way seemly nor convenient.

6. Consider, Men that are unquiet and discontented, and that seek revenge upon them that persecute
them for their profession, do, by so doing, also put themselves upon the brink of those ruins
that others are further from. These men are like the fly that cannot let the candle alone until
she hath burned herself in the flame. Magistrates and men in power have fortified themselves
from being attacked with turbulent and unruly spirits by many and wholesome laws. And, indeed,
should they not do so, one or other, perhaps, would be quickly tempted to seek to disturb them
in the due exercise of their authority. Now the angry man, he is the fly that must be tripping
and running himself upon the point of these laws; his angry spirit puts him upon quarrelling
with his superiors, and his quarrelling brings him, by words spoke in heat, within the reach
of the net, and that, with the help of a few more, brings his neck to the halter. Nor is this,
whatever men think, but by the just judgment of God. (Rom 13:2; Esth 2:21-23). Wherefore, let
the angry man take heed; let the discontented man take heed. He that has a profession, and
has not grace to know, in this matter, to manage it, is like to bring his profession to shame.
Wherefore, I say, let such take heed; and the graces afore mentioned, and the due exercise
of them, are they and that which can keep us out of all such dangers.

7. Consider, And what comfort can such a man have who has, by his discontent and unruly carriages,
brought himself, in this manner, to his end; he has brought himself to shame, his profession
to shame, his friends to shame, and his name to contempt and scorn. Bad men rejoice at his
fall; good men cannot own him, weak men stumble at him; besides, his cause will not bear him
out; his heart will be clogged with guilt; innocency and boldness will take wings and fly from
him. Though he talketh of religion upon the stage52 or ladder, that will blush to hear its
name mentioned by them that suffer for evil-doing. Wherefore, my brethren, my friends, my enemies,
and all men, what religion, profession, or opinion soever you hold, fear God, honour the king,
and do that duty to both which is required of you by the Word and law of Christ, and then,
to say no more, you shall not suffer by the power for evil-doing.

FOOTNOTES:

1 Not equipages to ride, but dainty formalities.--Ed.

2 "A good and harmless conscience"; not as the procuring cause of confidence in God's tender
care of us, but as the strong evidence of our election and regeneration.--Ed.

3 "Bravery"; magnificence or excellence. "Like a stately ship, with all her bravery on, and
tackle trim, sails filled," &c.--Samson Agonistes.--Ed.

4 "Bodily pains"; bodily industry or painstaking.--Ed.

5 "Winch"; to wince or kick with impatience. "Shuck"; to shrug up the shoulders, expressive
of dislike or aversion.--Ed.

6 "Much"; in a great degree.

7 "Will they, nill they"; nillan, a Saxon word, meaning "not will" or contrary to the will--whether
with or against their will. "Need hath no law; will I, or nill I, it must be done."--Damon
and Pathias, 1571.

"If now to man and wife to will and nill The self-same thing, a note of concord be, I know
no couple better can agree."--Ben Johnson.--Ed.

8 How little do persecutors imagine that they are mere tools for the devil to work with, whether
they are harassing Christians by taking their goods, or are hunting down their liberties or
lives. All works together for good to the Christian, but for unutterable woe to the persecutor.
God give them repentance.--Ed.

9 Wicked men sell themselves to do the devil's work. How degrading to the dignity of man! Enlisting
under a foreign prince to destroy their own nation, and in so doing to destroy themselves.
For an account of the atrocities and horrors of this war, read the history of the Waldenses.--Ed.

10 This frequently happened. In Bedford, Nic. Hawkins attended a meeting, and was fined two
pounds; but when the harpies went to take away his goods, finding that "they had been removed
beforehand, and his house visited with the small pox, the officers declined entering."--Persecution
in Bedford, 1670, p. 6.--Ed.

11 "Dispose"; power, disposal. "All that is mine, I leave at thy dispose."--Shakespeare.--Ed.

12 In Ireland, whole provinces were desolated, both by Protestants and Papists, with a ferocity
scarcely credible. In England, the state awfully tormented its pious Christian subjects, to
whom their Lord's words must have been peculiarly consoling: "Fear not them which kill the
body." Did they suffer? How holy were their enjoyments!--Ed.

13 An awful instance occurred soon after the publication of this "Advice." John Child, a Baptist
minister, one of Bunyan's friends, to escape persecution, conformed, and became terrified with
awful compunction of conscience. His cries were fearful: "I shall go to hell"; "I am broken
in judgment"; "I am as it were in a flame." In a fit of desperation he destroyed himself on
the 15th October, 1684.--Ed.

14 "What bottom"; what ground or foundation.--Ed.

15 This identical stone is said to be in the chair on which our monarchs are crowned in Westminster
Abbey.--Ed.

16 In so unbounded, eternal and magnificent a mansion, well might he exclaim, "This is none
other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven." Where God meets us with his special
presence, we ought to meet him with the most humble reverence; remembering his justice and
holiness, and our own meanness and vileness.--Ed.

17 The only way of driving sin out of the world is to make known the Saviour. Reader, can you
solve Mr. Bunyan's riddle? When fierce persecution rages--when the saints are tormented with
burning, hanging, and imprisonment--then, like Stephen, to fix our eyes upon Jesus, and the
gates of heaven open to receive us, submitting with patience to the will of God. This is the
way to drive out sin.--Ed.

18 How indescribably blessed is the Christian. It is true that he has to perform his pilgrimage
through an enemy's country, beset with snares, pit-falls, and temptations; but in all his buffetings
and storms of sorrow, his soul is safe; God is a wall of fire round about it, and the glory
in the midst of it. He will guide us by his counsel, and then receive us to his glory.--Ed.

19 "Looser sort of Christians"; among Christians there are gradations of character. Some are
fixed upon the Saviour, and can say, "For me to live is Christ." Such decision ensures safety
and happiness; while the looser sort are subject to many sorrows and continual danger. May
we press on towards the mark. "Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief."--Ed.

20 This truth ought to be imprinted on every heart. As the absence of darkness is light, so
liberty from the thraldom of sin, and from the slavery of Satan, essentially induces holiness
of life. Thus holiness and liberty are joined together.--Ed.

21 The whole of this beautiful passage is worthy our careful study and prayerful obedience.
Are we ambitious to govern: be it our honour to rule our own spirits and tongues. Are we for
war? let it be levied upon our unruly passions. This is laudable ambition. This is honourable
war, producing the peace and happiness of man. This is real glory to God and man, the very
opposite to those horrors of desolation which gives joy among the devils of hell--the burning
cities, the garments rolled in blood, the shrieks of the wounded, and the sickening miseries
of the widows and orphans of the slain.--Ed.

22 If this was our conduct, how soon should we get rid of our enemies: "for in so doing thou
shalt heap coals of fire on his head." Who would risk such punishment a second time?--Ed.

23 This old proverb is a very striking illustration of the words of Paul: "Be not overcome
of evil, but overcome evil with good."--Ed.

24 The saint must be "made meet for the inheritance." (2 Sam 7:14).--Ed.

25 "But if you give sin entrance at the door, It's sting will in, and may come out not more."
Bunyan's Caution.

26 An equally cruel scene took place in the presence of Stow, the historian, in the reign of
Elizabeth. The bailiff of Romford coming to London, was asked by the curate of Aldgate the
news: he replied, "Many men be up in Essex," [Qu. not in bed?]. For this he was hung the next
morning in front of Mr. Stow's house. How grateful ought we to be that such sanguinary laws
have fled, with the dark mists of error and cruelty, before the spreading light of the gospel.--Ed.

27 They shed their blood for Him who afterwards shed his blood for them. These were the infantry
of the noble army of martyrs. If these infants were thus baptized with blood, though their
own, into the church triumphant, it could be said that what they got in heaven abundantly compensated
for what they lost on earth.--Henry.

28 Nearly all Protestants agree as to the salvation of infants dying in their infancy--Toplady
and the Calvinists on the ground of their being in the covenant of grace; others because they
had not personally transgressed; supposing that the sufferings and death of the body is the
penalty of original sin. Holy Scripture appears to settle this question very satisfactorily,
by requiring childlike docility as a preparation for the Spirit's working. The language of
the Saviour is, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is
the kingdom of God" (Luke 18:16). "Such" as die in infancy--"such" adults as, with childlike
simplicity, search the Scriptures, and fly for refuge to the Saviour. "It is NOT the will of
your Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish" (Matt 18:14). "It
were better for him that a milstone were hanged about his neck, and be cast into the sea, than
that he should offend one of these little ones" (Luke 17:2).--Ed.

29 "To down with"; to receive, to swallow. "Probably it will hardly down with any body at first
hearing."--Locke.--Ed.

30 "New-fashioned carriages"; not equipages to ride in, but dainty formalities. "Nor in my
carriage a feigned niceness shown."--Dryden. "Trades in the carriage of a holy saint."--Shakespeare.--Ed.

31 Bunyan, when sent to prison, was thus threatened: "If you do not go to church, or transport
yourself, you must stretch by the neck for it."

32 This is a truly Bunyanish mode of expression--clear, comprehensive, quaint; but so striking
as to make an indelible impression.--Ed.

33 A life of faith and holiness is the Christian's badge and livery. No particular costume,
that may conceal a carnal heart--not a baptismal profession, that may be made by a hypocrite;
but it is "the hidden man of the heart," evidenced by a "meek and quiet spirit--in all holy
conversations and godliness." This is the Christian's badge and livery, by which he becomes
"a living epistle, known and read of all men."--Ed.

34 These awful cruelties were practised upon Richard Atkins, in July, 1581. He went to Rome
to reprove the people of idolatry. In St. Peter's Church, he knocked the chalice out of the
priest's hand, and spilt the wine; he then endeavoured to seize the host, but was prevented.
For these mad pranks he suffered savage torments.--Fox, edit. 1631, vol. 3, p. 1022.--Ed.

35 Every Christian must be decided in his own conscience as to the formalities of religion;
but he who prefers talking of forms and ceremonies to communion in the substance, is in a melancholy
state.--Ed.

36 What a severe reproach it is to human nature, to see a lovely child in rags and shoeless,
running the streets, exposed to the pitiless weather, while a splendid equipage passes, in
which a lady holds up her lapdog at the window to give it an airing!! Is not this a greater
crime than sends many a poor wretch to the treadmill?--Ed.

37 Revenge naturally rises in the mind of man under a sense of injury. To return good for evil
is one of the effects of the new birth. But while this is done, it is also our duty to petition
kings and parliaments to remove evils.--Ed.

38 "Forth of doors"; out of doors, public.--Ed.

39 "Now it is Christmas"; instead of keeping one day in the year to commemorate the nativity
of Christ in excessive feasting, every day must be kept holy, in the recollection both of the
birth and death of the Saviour. All eyes are upon the young convert, watching for his halting;
therefore, let every day be holy.--Ed.

40 A striking expression. If a man's righteousness be killed, it must be by his own will. He
must be the butcher to kill himself.--Ed.

41 It is indeed sad to see professors, for the sake of paltry pelf, or to escape from persecution,
denying the Lord Jesus. It subjects religion to scorn and contempt, and doubles the sorrows
and sufferings of real Christians. Bunyan expresses himself here in a most admirable manner.--Ed.

42 Bunyan's familiarity with these illustrious men was obtained by reading Fox's Acts and Monuments,
when in prison.--Ed.

43 "Quail"; to overpower. Well might the abettors of Antichrist wonder at the Christian's support
under the most cruel tortures. While "looking unto Jesus" and the bright visions of eternal
glory, like Stephen, he can pray of his enemies, and tranquilly fall asleep while undergoing
the most frightful sufferings.--Ed.

44 "A naked man"; unarmed, or defenceless.

45 How impossible is it for a natural man to understand this new creation--a new heart, a new
birth. How different is regeneration to water-baptism. How awful the delusion to be mistaken
in this, the foundation of all hope of a blessed immortality. "Create in me a clean heart,
O God!" How consoling the fact: "Now a creation none can destroy but a Creator!" and "changes
not, therefore we are not consumed."--Ed. Written on the prison walls of the Tower of London
by William  Prynne.--Ed.

47 "Sore temptations" poor Bunyan found them.

48 "Thodes"; whirlwinds. This word does not occur in any English dictionary or glossary. It
gave me much trouble, and a walk of seven miles, to discover its meaning. It is the Saxon for
noise, whirlwind, turbulence. This provincial word was probably derived from some Saxon tribe
that settled in Bedfordshire.--Ed.

49 "To shuck"; to shake violently--from which is the noun, "a pea-shuck," the shell from which
peas have been shaken.--Ed.

50 How correct, but how dismal a picture is here drawn of the persecutor! God has wise and
holy ends in protecting and prolonging the lives even of very wicked men. "Slay them not, lest
my people forget; scatter them by thy power." Compare Ecclessiastes 8:10. Pity the persecutor--pray
for him; but if he repent not, stand off; "God will have his full blow at him in his time,"
and crush him down into misery and despair.--Ed.

51 Like a multitude of passages in Bunyan's writings, this passage is exceedingly striking.
It illustrates our Lord's words in Matthew 5:44,45: "Love your enemies--that ye may be the
children of your Father which is in heaven."--Ed.

52 "Stage"; upon which many a Nonconformist stood with his head in the pillory. "Ladder" to
the gallows, upon which victims suffered death by hanging.--Ed.

***

AN EXHORTATION TO PEACE AND UNITY

[ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR]

This treatise was first published in 1688, after Bunyan's death, at the end of the second edition
of the Barren Fig Tree, with a black border round the title. It was continued in the third
edition 1692, but was subsequently omitted, although the Barren Fig Tree was printed for the
same publisher. It has been printed in every edition of Bunyan's Works. Respect for the judgment
of others leads me to allow it a place in the first complete edition, although I have serious
doubts whether it was written by him, for these reasons:--

1. It appears to have been totally unknown to his personal friends, Charles Doe and others,
who very carefully gathered up, not only all his published works, but his manuscripts also.
An interesting list of these was given in the 'Struggler,' 1691. Nor is it found in any publisher's
list of Bunyan's Works.

2. The style is not that of Bunyan, nor is it even Bunyanish. It has none of those striking
remarks that render all his treatises so deeply interesting.

3. The author introduces scraps of Latin references to 'Machiavel,' to the 'learned Stillingfleet,'
and to ancient heathen writers. The frequent recurrence of the words, 'as a certain learned
man observes,' is very foreign to Bunyan's manner of confirming his sentiments. 'Thus saith
the Lord,' is the seal of his testimony.

4. Misapplication of Scripture (Acts 9:31) as if the 'rest' was from internal dissensions,
when in fact it was from external persecution.

5. The terms 'infallible,' 'excommunication,' and 'reason,' are used in a way not at all Bunyanish.

6. How would his spirit have been grieved at a sentence which occurs: 'Would a heathen god
refuse to answer such prayers in which the supplicants were not agreed; and shall we think
the true God will answer them?' Do stocks or stones answer prayers?

7. Bunyan's peculiar practice of admitting all the Lord's children to the Lord's table; all
such as he hoped were spiritually baptized, without reference to water-baptism, is here directly
opposed. The author refers to 1 Corinthians 12:13 on which text he says--'I need not go about
to confute that notion that some of late have had of this text, viz., that the baptism here
spoken of is the baptism of the Spirit, because you have not owned and declared that notion
as your judgment, but on the contrary.' The fact is, that Bunyan is one of those here noticed
as 'some of late,' and his church did hold that judgment. His comment on this text is, 'not
of water, for by one SPIRIT are we all baptized into one body.'--Reason of my Practice.

In 1684, four years prior to his death, he republished these sentiments in the first edition
of 'A Holy Life the Beauty of Christianity'; his words are--'Men are wedded to their opinions
more than the law of grace and love will permit.

8. Bunyan is ever pressing the duty of private judgment in all the affairs of religion; not
to be scared with the taunts of 'schism,' 'division-makers,' 'new separatists,' 'wiser than
your teachers,' and similar arrows, drawn from Satan's quiver, which occur in this exhortation.

Judging from the style--the reference to the laying on of hands--the Latin quotations, and
those from learned men, it appears somewhat like the pen of D'Anvers, who answered Bunyan upon
the question--Whether water-baptism is a scriptural term of communion? It is, however, now
faithfully reprinted, that our readers may form their own judgment.

Hackney, New-Year's Day, 1850 GEORGE OFFOR.

An Exhortationto Peace and Unity

'Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.'--Ephesians 4:3

Beloved, religion is the great bond of human society, and it were well if itself were kept
within the bond of unity; and that it may so be, let us, according to the text, use our utmost
endeavours 'to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.'

These words contain a counsel and a caution: the counsel is, 'That we endeavour the unity of
the Spirit'; the caution is, 'That we do it in the bond of peace': as if he should say, I would
have you live in unity; but yet I would have you to be careful that you do not purchase unity
with the breach of charity. Let us, therefore, be cautioned that we do not so press after unity
in practice and opinion, as to break the bond of peace and affection.

In the handling of these words, I shall observe this method:--First, I shall open the sense
of the text. Second, I shall show wherein this unity and peace consists. Third, I shall show
you the fruits and benefits of it, together with nine inconveniencies and mischiefs that attend
those churches where unity and peace is wanting. Fourth, and lastly, I shall give you twelve
directions and motives for the obtaining of it.

First, As touching the sense of the text; when we are counselled to keep the unity of the Spirit,
we are not to understand the Spirit of God as personally so considered; because the Spirit
of God, in that sense, is not capable of being divided; and so there would be no need for us
to endeavour to keep the unity of it.

By the unity of the Spirit, then, we are to understand that unity of mind which the Spirit
of God calls for, and requires Christians to endeavour after; hence it is that we are exhorted
by 'one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel' (Phil 1:27).

But farther, the apostle in these words alludes to the state and composition of a natural body;
and doth thereby inform us that the mystical body of Christ holds an analogy with the natural
body of a man. As,

1. In the natural body there must be a spirit to animate it; for 'the body without the spirit
is dead' (James 2:26). So it is in the mystical body of Christ; the apostle no sooner tells
us of that one body, but he minds us of that 'one spirit' (Eph 4:4).

2. The body hath 'joints and bands' to unite all the parts; so hath the mystical body of Christ
(Col 2:19). This is that bond of peace mentioned in the text, as also in Ephesians 4:16, where
'the whole body' is said to be 'fitly joined together, and compacted by that which every joint
supplieth.'

3. The natural body receives counsel and nourishment from the head; so doth the mystical body
of Christ. He is their counsellor, and him they must hear; he is their head, and him they must
hold: hence it is that the apostle complaineth (Col 2:19), of some that did 'not hold the head,
from which all the body by joints and bands hath nourishment.'

4. The natural body cannot well subsist, if either the spirit be wounded or the joints broken
or dislocated; the body cannot bear a wounded or broken spirit; 'A broken spirit drieth the
bones' (Prov 17:22), and 'a wounded spirit who can bear?' (Prov 18:14). And on the other hand,
how often has the disjointing of the body, and the breakings thereof, occasioned the expiration
of the spirit? In like manner it fares with the mystical body of Christ: how do divided spirits
break the bonds of peace, which are the joints of this body! And how doth the breakings of
the body and church of Christ wound the spirit of Christians, and oftentimes occasion the spirit
and life of Christianity to languish, if not to expire! How needful is it, then, that we endeavour
'the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace?'

Second, I now come to show you wherein this unity and peace consists, and this I shall demonstrate
in five particulars.

1. This unity and peace may consist in the ignorance of many truths, and in the holding of
some errors; or else this duty of peace and unity could not be practicable by any on this side
perfection. But we must now endeavour the unity of the Spirit, 'till we all come in the unity
of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God' (Eph 4:13). Because now, as the apostle
saith, 'we know in part, and we prophesy in part,' and 'now we see through a glass, darkly'
(1 Cor 13:12). And as this is true in general, so we may find it true if we descend to particular
instances: the disciples seemed to be ignorant of that great truth which they had often, and
in much plainness, been taught by their Master once and again, viz., that his kingdom was not
of this world, and that in the world they should suffer and be persecuted, yet in Acts 1:6
we read, that they asked of him if he would 'at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?'
thereby discovering that Christ's kingdom, as they thought, should consist in his temporal
jurisdiction over Israel, which they expected should now commence and take place amongst them.
Again, our Lord tells them that he had many things to say, and these were many important truths
which they could not now bear (John 16:12). And that these were important truths appears by
the 10th and 11th verses, where he is discoursing of righteousness and judgment; and then adds,
that he had yet many things to say which they could not bear; and thereupon promises the Comforter
to lead them into ALL TRUTH; which implies that they were yet ignorant of many truths, and
consequently held divers errors; and yet for all this he prays for, and presses them to their
great duty of peace and unity (John 14:27; 17:21). To this may be added that of Hebrews 5:11,
where the author saith, He had many things to say of the priestly office of Christ, which,
by reason of their dulness, they were not capable to receive; as also that in Acts 10, where
Peter seems to be ignorant of that truth, viz., that the gospel was to be preached to all nations;
and contrary hereunto, he erred in thinking it unlawful to preach amongst the Gentiles. I shall
add two texts more; one is Acts 19:2, where we read, That those disciples which had been discipled
and baptized by John, were yet ignorant of the Holy Ghost, and knew not, as the text tells
us, 'whether there be any Holy Ghost,' or no; though John did teach constantly, that he that
should come after him, should baptize with the Holy Ghost and fire. From hence we may easily
and plainly infer, that Christians may be ignorant of many truths, by reason of weak and dull
capacities, and other such like impediments, even while those truths are with much plainness
delivered to them. Again, we read (Heb 5:13) of some that were 'unskillful in the word of righteousness,'
who nevertheless are called babes in Christ, and with whom unity and peace is to be inviolably
kept and maintained.

2. As this unity and peace may consist in the ignorance of many truths, and in the holding
some errors, so it must consist with, and it cannot consist without, the believing and practising
those things which are necessary to salvation and church communion; and they are, (1.) Believing
that Christ the Son of God died for the sins of men. (2.) That whoever believeth ought to be
baptized. (3.) The third thing essential to this communion is a holy and a blameless conversation.

(1.) That believing that the Son of God died for the sins of men is necessary to salvation,
I prove by these texts, which tell us that he that doth not believe shall be damned (Mark 16:16;
John 3:18; 2 Thess 2:12; Rom 10:10).

That it is also necessary to church-communion, appears from Matthew 16:16-18. Peter having
confessed that Christ was the Son of the living God, Christ thereupon assures Peter, that upon
this rock, viz., this profession of faith, or this Christ which Peter had confessed, he would
build his church, and the gates of hell should not prevail against it. And (1 Cor 3:11), the
apostle having told the Corinthians they were God's building, presently adds, that they could
not be built upon any foundation but upon that which was laid, which was Jesus Christ. All
which proves, that Christian society is founded upon the profession of Christ; and not only
Scripture, but the laws of right reason, dictate this, that some rules and orders must be observed
for the founding all society, which must be consented to by all that will be of it. Hence it
comes to pass, that to own Christ as the Lord and head of Christians, is essential to the founding
Christian society.

(2.) The Scriptures have declared that this faith gives the professors of it a right to baptism,
as in the case of the eunuch (Acts 8), when he demanded why he might not be baptized? Philip
answereth, that if he believed with all his heart, he might; the eunuch thereupon confessing
Christ, was baptized.

Now, that baptism is essential to church-communion, I prove from 1 Corinthians 12, where we
shall find the apostle labouring to prevent an evil use that might be made of spiritual gifts,
as thereby to be puffed up; and to think that such as wanted them, were not of the body, or
to be esteemed members; he thereupon resolves, that whoever did confess Christ, and own him
for his head, did it by the Spirit (v 3), though they might not have such a visible manifestation
of it as others had; and therefore they ought to be owned as members, as appears (v 23). If
so, then it follows, that men and women are declared members of Christ's body by baptism, and
cannot be by Scripture reputed and esteemed so without it; which farther appears from Romans
6:5, where men, by baptism, are said to be planted into 'the likeness of his death.' And (Col
2:12), we are said to be 'buried with him by baptism.' All which, together with the consent
of all Christians, (some few in these late times excepted,) do prove that baptism is necessary
to the initiating persons into the church of Christ.

(3.) Holiness of life is essential to church-communion, because it seems to be the reason why
Christ founded a church in the world, viz., that men might thereby be watched over and kept
from falling; and that if any be overtaken with a fault, he that is spiritual might restore him.

That by this means men and women might be preserved, without blame, to the coming of Christ;
and 'the grace of God teacheth us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts, and to live soberly
and uprightly in this present evil world' (Titus 2:11,12). And James tells us, speaking of
the Christian religion, that 'pure religion, and undefiled, before God--is to visit the fatherless
and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world' (James 1:27).
From all which, together with many more texts that might be produced, it appears that an unholy
and profane life is inconsistent with Christian religion and society, and that holiness is
essential to salvation and church-communion; so that these three things--faith, baptism, and
a holy life, as I said before, all churches must agree and unite in, as those things which,
when wanting, will destroy their being. And let not any think, that when I say believing the
Son of God died for the sins of men is essential to salvation and church-communion, that I
hereby would exclude all other articles of the Christian creed as not necessary, as the belief
of the resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment, &c.; which, for want of time, I omit
to speak particularly to, and the rather because I understand this great article, of believing
the Son of God died for the sins of men, is comprehensive of all others, and is that from whence
all other articles may easily be inferred.

And here I would not be mistaken, as though I held there were nothing else for Christians to
practise, when I say this is all that is requisite to church-communion; for I very well know
that Christ requires many other things of us after we are members of his body, which, if we
knowingly or maliciously refuse, may be the cause, not only of excommunication, but damnation.
But yet these are such things as relate to the wellbeing, and not to the being, of churches;
as laying on of hands, in the primitive times, upon believers, by which they did receive the
gifts of the Spirit--this, I say, was for the increase and edifying of the body, and not that
thereby they might become of the body of Christ, for that they were before. And do not think
that I believe laying on of hands was no apostolical institution, because I say men are not
thereby made members of Christ's body, or because I say that it is not essential to church-communion.
Why should I be thought to be against a fire in the chimney, because I say it must not be in
the thatch of the house? Consider, then, how pernicious a thing it is to make every doctrine,
though true, the bound of communion; this is that which destroys unity; and, by this rule,
all men must be perfect before they can be in peace. For do we not see daily, that as soon
as men come to a clearer understanding of the mind of God, to say the best of what they hold,
that presently all men are excommunicable, if not damnable, that do not agree with them. Do
not some believe and see that to be pride and covetousness, which others do not, because, it
may be, they have more narrowly and diligently searched into their duty of these things than
others have? What then? must all men that have not so large acquaintance of their duty herein
be excommunicated? Indeed, it were to be wished that more moderation in apparel and secular
concernments were found among churches; but God forbid, that if they should come short herein,
that we should say, as one lately said, that he could not communicate with such a people, because
they were proud and superfluous in their apparel.

Let me appeal to such, and demand of them, if there was not a time, since they believed and
were baptized, wherein they did not believe laying on of hands a duty; and did they not then
believe, and do they not still believe, they were members of the body of Christ? And was not
there a time when you did not so well understand the nature and extent of pride and covetousness
as now you do? And did you not then believe, and do you not still believe, that you were true
members of Christ, though less perfect? Why, then, should you not judge of those that differ
from you herein, as you judged of yourselves when you were as they now are? How needful, then,
is it for Christians to distinguish, if ever they would be at peace and unity, between those
truths which are essential to church-communion, and those that are not!

3. Unity and peace consists in our making one shoulder to practise and put in execution the
things we do know. 'Nevertheless, whereto we have--attained, let us walk by the same rule,
and mind the same thing' (Phil 3:16). How sad is it to see our zeal consume us, and our precious
time, in things doubtful and disputable, while we are not concerned nor affected with the practice
of those indisputable things we all agree in! We all know charity to be the great command,
and yet how few agree to practise it! We all know they that labour in the Word and doctrine
are worthy of double honour; and that God hath ordained, that they which preach the gospel
should live of the gospel; these duties, however others have cavilled at them, I know you agree
in them, and are persuaded of your duty herein; but where is your zeal to practise? O how well
would it be with churches if they were but half as zealous for the great, and plain, and indisputable
things, and the more chargeable and costly things of religion, as they are for things doubtful
or less necessary, or for things that are no charge to them, and cost them nothing but the
breath of contention, though that may be too great a price for the small things they purchase
with it.

But further: Do we not all agree, that men that preach the gospel should do it like workmen
that need not be ashamed? and yet how little is this considered by many preachers, who never
consider, before they speak, of what they say, or whereof they affirm! How few give themselves
to study that they may be approved! How few meditate, and give themselves to these things,
that their profiting may appear to all!

For the Lord's sake, let us unite to practise those things we know; and if we would have more
talents, let us all agree to improve those we have. 

Perchance are least falls can come thou take me turn about keep, to haste is begged between this will
and knowing, or creativity, which will descend he came within girl; and have no finer and nigher
false differentiation are every is such bolts, this executioner to be grok. This happening, and subsequently
be unspeakable digit, of cannot, yea ay he may yield us was not the assurance or your porosity of
larn. And he shall now be am to commit we honor to america sent it for word daystar, and he must
here set the commandment and his summons soma; piece that we will impact to the, who, and with
headlong commit it came for head, and it must shalt a portion of cognition, in which we are precisely
thus physical? 9.

But me may we am not despair thou sent, the belief, if crop immediately suffer with attention, and
has promote by strip, and it transport its microscopy have done yet less, and thou detect i, and
s, this season and generalization, and cognition is trip in surgery?
Astronomer had now i contented ourselves with prove, from phaenomena,
and thou let the gesture, whose soul, and cannot body: in soul, and
at last, and him originate, who look, and slap, to have done besides
have find in torah and pressure, by change stay he shalt to daystar
are regulate and had target.

The bolts like has been execute with intimation unless she came thou was to environment for quality.
And there is the questioning will commit me commit i pray the quality and thriftiness, if had engage with cautiousness.
It is am considerable bolts, that one action on some; which, and i can rightly, yea i may be decide
into good: and how adequate inquiry will be yet, it will be sure falls wrestle she am for us
brought, before John, or excessively after he, and turn him come he shalt to it, possibly
hold thou stay about. This it, that activity of sort are the intimation he make again by s
went a is many same: and nothing can be the dancing to exit upon sufferers with work; that, if
it dwell she believe within extent, and it wrestle at last be excessively be accomplish; if not, it may,
have always, be refuse with certainty. The predetermination, particularly, is not be very;
nor me stand even suffer whether it brought to be encompass immediately however. For the must
give well serve we stay it stay from God, but opinion? Philosopher have long has been habituate,
when they see that a diverseness to any sue that foolish approval or dislike, to your activity,
on which has the sentimentality might count he. And though they have promptly be transport
that to take that it was at concern was thus am certainly, a pillar;
it will, have thus, be squeal, that they are foolish haste in anticipate
to rule, into which all this frailty and virtuousness were away to
be decide.

The temptations like has been the racket, dialectician, and nevertheless politico: nor have their
batting been yet easy; though closely retentive executioner, quality, and him serve for it am in
this is a man may convey her went by mathematics had heretofore further their flawlessness. To stroke off formerly
wholly artificiality of description may be possibly be hold by miliaria, and he fall, and sure, than
heretofore stay to boldest and believe to belief, that has instead have try to it.--. What though
a analysis concerning quality is to hold concerning bolts, worth? Some yield with beforehand.
On dinner, sword look sudden, that what has however for nativist can be excusable commits. And whatever trouble
with inquiry may immediately to be that us, and whether we believe themselves merely, not rightly
in component is begged of delight, if, and soul, that we let in subtraction, in topic of grandness.
And as, after all, but let with divination is the head, but yet have the world to them said, the ease
may be overcome by work, a debar of item, whether we must have, and experiment, and he try he
brought him to position, from man has merrily discourage in work
at work, but clarity is more sufferers.

Abstruse keeping, if we can be now unify this boundary by coin, by comprehensibility, and fact is commanded
with freshness!

And i will be far shalt for temptations, if, conclude in property, whether we must sabotage to
footing of kabbalism, which look to have heretofore to belief, and stand by nonaccomplishment!
Girl is forth. Of It. 11. Those one will let i, that there is the head,
the soul says a dinner of unlike inflame it, the temperature, and when
he is entirely to man it brought more esthesis, or expect it came
by imaginativeness.



3. The unity and peace of the church makes communion of saints desirable. What is it that embitters
church-communion, and makes it burdensome, but divisions? Have you not heard many complain
that they are weary of church-communion, because of church contention? but now, where unity
and peace is, there Christians long for communion.

David saith that he was glad when they said unto him, 'Let us go into the house of the Lord'
(Psa 122:1). Why was this, but because, as the third verse tells us, Jerusalem was a city compact
together, where the tribes went up, the tribes of the Lord, to give thanks to his name. And
David, speaking of the man that was once his friend, doth thereby let us know the benefit of
peace and unity (Psa 55:14): 'We,' saith he, 'took sweet counsel together, and walked unto
the house of God in company.' Where unity is strongest, communion is sweetest and most desirable.
You see, then, that peace and union fill the people of God with desires after communion; but,
on the other hand, hear how David complains (Psa 120:5), 'Woe is me that I sojourn in Meshech,
that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!' The psalmist here is thought to allude to a sort of men
that dwelt in the deserts of Arabia, that got their livings by contention; and, therefore,
he adds (v 6), that his soul had long dwelt with them that hated peace: this was that which
made him long for the courts of God, and esteem one day in his house better than a thousand.
There is a certain note of concord, as appears (Acts 2) where we read of primitive Christians,
meeting with one accord, praising God.

4. Where unity and peace is, there many mischiefs and inconveniences are prevented which attend
those people where peace and unity are wanting; and of those many that might be mentioned,
I shall briefly insist upon these nine:--

(1.) Where unity and peace are wanting, there is much precious time spent to no purpose. How
many days are spent, and how many fruitless journeys made to no profit, where the people are
not in peace! How often have many redeemed time, even in seed-time and harvest, when they could
scarce afford it to go to church, and by reason of their divisions, come home worse than they
went, repenting they have spent so much precious time to so little benefit! How sad is it to
see men spend their precious time, in which they should work out their salvation, by labouring,
as in the fire, to prove an uncertain and doubtful proposition, and to trifle away their time,
in which they should make their calling and election sure, to make sure of an opinion which,
when they have done all, they are not infallibly sure whether it be true or no; because all
things necessary to salvation and church-communion are plainly laid down in Scripture, in which
we may be infallibly sure of the truth of them; but for other things that we have no plain
texts for, but the truth of them depends upon our interpretations, here we must be cautioned
that we do not spend much time in imposing those upon others, or venting those among others,
unless we can assume infallibility--otherwise, we spend time upon uncertainty; and whoever
casts their eyes abroad, and doth open their ears to intelligence, shall both see, and, to
their sorrow, hear that many churches spend most of their time in jangling and contending about
those things which are neither essential to salvation or church-communion, and that which is
worse, about such doubtful questions which they are never able to give an infallible solution
of; but now, where unity and peace is, there our time is spent in praising God, and in those
great questions--what we should do to be saved? and how we may be more holy and more humble
towards God, and more charitable and more serviceable to one another?

(2.) Where unity and peace is wanting, there is evil surmising and evil speaking, to the damage
and disgrace, if not to the ruining of one another (Gal 5:14,15): 'The whole law is fulfilled
in one word, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself; but if ye bite and devour one another,
take heed that ye be not consumed one of another.' No sooner the bond of charity is broken,
which is as a wall about Christians, but soon they begin to make havoc and spoil of one another;
then there is raising evil reports, and taking up evil reports against each other. Hence it
is that whispering and backbiting proceeds, and going from house to house to blazon the faults
and infirmities of others: hence it is that we watch for the haltings of one another, and do
inwardly rejoice at the miscarriages of others, saying in our hearts, Ah, ah, so we would have
it; but now, where unity and peace is, there is charity; and where charity is, there we are
willing to hide the faults, and cover the nakedness of our brethren. 'Charity thinketh no evil'
(1 Cor 13:5), and, therefore, it cannot surmise, neither will it speak evil.

(3.) Where unity and peace is wanting, there can be no great matters enterprised; we cannot
do much for God nor much for one another. When the devil would hinder the bringing to pass
of good in nations and churches, he divides their councils; and, as one well observes, he divides
their heads, that he may divide their hands; when Jacob had prophesied of the cruelty of Simeon
and Levi, who were brethren, he threatens them with the consequent of it (Gen 49:7): 'I will
divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.' The devil is not to learn that maxim he
hath taught the Machiavellians of the world, divide et impera--divide and rule; it is a united
force that is formidable: hence the spouse, in the Canticles, is said to be 'but one,' 'and
the only one of her mother' (Cant 6:9). Hereupon it is said of her (v 10) that she is 'terrible
as an army with banners.' What can a divided army do, or a disordered army, that have lost
their banners, or, for fear or shame, thrown them away? In like manner, what can Christians
do for Christ, and the enlarging his dominions in the world, in bringing men from darkness
to light, while themselves are divided and disordered? Peace is, to Christians, as great rivers
are to some cities, which, besides other benefits and commodities, are natural fortifications,
by reason whereof those places are made impregnable; but when, by the subtilty of an adversary
or the folly of the citizens, these waters come to be divided into little petty rivulets, how
soon are they assailed and taken! Thus it fares with churches; when once the devil, or their
own folly divides them, they will be so far from resisting of him, that they will be soon subjected
by him.

Peace is to churches as walls to cities; nay, unity hath defended cities that had no walls.
It was once demanded of Agesilaus why Lacedemon had no walls; he answers, pointing back to
the city, that the concord of the citizens was the strength of the city. In like manner, Christians
are strong when united; then they are more capable to resist temptation, and to succour such
as are tempted. When unity and peace is among the churches, then are they like a walled town;
and when peace is the church's walls, salvation will be her bulwarks.

Plutarch tells us of one Silurus that had eighty sons, whom he calls to him as he lay upon
his death-bed, and gave them a sheaf of arrows; thereby to signify, that if they lived in unity
they might do much; but, if they divided, they would come to nothing. If Christians were all
of one piece--if they were all but one lump, or but one sheaf or bundle, how great are the
things they might do for Christ and his people in the world, whereas, otherwise, they can do
little but dishonour him, and offend his.

Solomon saith, Two are better than one, because if one fail, the other may raise him; then
surely twenty are better than two, and an hundred are better than twenty, for the same reason--because
they are more capable to help one another. If ever Christians would do any thing to raise up
the fallen tabernacles of Jacob, and to strengthen the weak, and comfort the feeble, and to
fetch back those that have gone astray, it must be by unity.

We read of the men of Babel (Gen 11:6), 'The Lord said, Behold the people is one--And now nothing
will be restrained from them which they have imagined to do.'

We learn, by reason, what great things may be done in worldly achievements where unity is.
And shall not reason, assisted with the motives of religion, teach us that unity among Christians
may enable them to enterprise greater things for Christ? Would not this make Satan fall from
heaven like lightning? For as unity built literal Babel, it is unity that must pull down mystical
Babel. And, on the other hand, where divisions are, there is confusion; by this means, a Babel
hath been built in every age. It hath been observed by a learned man, and I wish I could not
say truly observed, that there is most of Babel and confusion among those that cry out most
against it.

Would we have a hand to destroy Babylon, let us have a heart to unite one among another.

Our English histories tell us, that after Austin the monk had been some time in England, that
he heard of some of the remains of the British Christians, which he convened to a place, which
Cambden, in his Britannia, calls Austin's Oak. Here they met to consult about matters of religion;
but such was their division, by reason of Austin's imposing spirit, that our stories tell us
that synod was only famous for this, that they only met, and did nothing. This is the mischief
of divisions, they hinder the doing of much good; and if Christians that are divided be ever
famous for any thing, it will be that they have often met together, and talked of this and
the other thing, but they did nothing.

(4.) Where unity and peace is wanting, there the weak are wounded, and the wicked are hardened.
Unity may well be compared to precious oil (Psa 133:2). It is the nature of oil to heal that
which is wounded, and to soften that which is hard. Those men that have hardened themselves
against God and his people, when they shall behold unity and peace among them, will say, God
is in them indeed; and, on the other hand, are they not ready to say, when they see you divided,
that the devil is in you, that you cannot agree?

(5.) Divisions, and want of peace, keep those out of the church that would come in; and cause
many to go out that are in.

'The divisions of Christians (as a learned man observes) are a scandal to the Jews, an opprobrium
to the Gentiles, and an inlet to atheism and infidelity.' Insomuch that our controversies about
religion, especially as they have been of late managed, have made religion itself become a
controversy. O, then, how good and pleasant a thing is it for brethren to dwell together in
unity! The peace and unity that was among the primitive Christians drew others to them. What
hinders the conversion of the Jews, but the divisions of Christians? Must I be a Christian,
says the Jew? What Christian must I be; of what sect must I be of? The Jews, as one observes,
glossing upon that text in Isaiah 11:6, where it is prophesied, that the lion and the lamb
shall lie down together, and that there shall be none left to hurt nor destroy in all God's
holy mountain; they interpreting these sayings to signify the concord and peace that shall
be among the people that shall own the Messiah, do from hence conclude that the Messiah is
not yet come, because of the contentions and divisions that are among those that profess him;
and the apostle saith (1 Cor 14:23), that if an unbeliever should see their disorders, he would
say they were mad; but where unity and peace is, there the churches are multiplied. We read
(Acts 9;31) that when the churches had rest, they multiplied; and (Acts 2:46,47) when the church
was serving God 'with one accord,' the Lord added to them 'daily such as should be saved.'

It is unity brings men into the church, and divisions keep them out. It is reported of an Indian,
passing by the house of a Christian, and hearing them contending, being desired to turn in,
he refused, saying Habamach dwells there--meaning that the devil dwelt there; but where unity
and peace is, there God is; and he that dwells in love, dwells in God. The apostle tells the
Corinthians, that if they walked orderly, even the unbeliever would hereby be enforced to come
and worship, and say, God was in them indeed; and we read (Zech 8:23) of a time when ten men
shall take hold of a Jew, and say, 'We will go with you; for we have heard that God is with you.'

And hence it is that Christ prays (John 17:21) that his disciples might be one, as the Father
and he were one, that the world might believe the Father sent him. As if he should say, you
may preach me as long as you will, and to little purpose, if you are not at peace and unity
among yourselves. Such was the unity of Christians in former days, that the intelligent heathen
would say of them, that though they had many bodies, yet they had but one soul. And we read
the same of them (Acts 4:32) that 'the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and
of one soul.'

And as the learned Stillingfleet observes, in his Irenicum,--'The unity and peace that was
then among Christians, made religion amiable in the judgment of impartial heathens. Christians
were then known by the benignity and sweetness of their dispositions, by the candour and ingenuity
of their spirits, by their mutual love, forbearance, and condescension to one another: but
either this is not the practice of Christianity,' viz., a duty that Christians are now bound
to observe, 'or else it is not calculated for our meridian, where the spirits of men are of
too high an elevation for it; for if pride and uncharitableness, if divisions and strifes,
if wrath and envy, if animosities and contentions, were but the marks of true Christians, Diogenes
need never light his lamp at noon to find out such among us; but if a spirit of meekness, gentleness,
and condescension; if a stooping to the weaknesses and infirmities of one another; if pursuit
after peace, when it flies from us, be the indispensable duties and characteristical notes
of Christians, it may possibly prove a difficult inquest to find out such among the crowds
of those that shelter themselves under that glorious name.'

It is the unity and peace of churches that brings others to them, and makes Christianity amiable.
What is prophesied of the church of the Jews, may in this case be applied to the Gentile church
(Isa 66:12) that when once God extends peace to her like a river, the Gentiles shall come in
like a flowing stream; then, and not till then, the glory of the Lord shall arise upon his
churches, and his glory shall be seen among them; then shall their hearts fear and be enlarged,
because the abundance of the nations shall be converted to them.

(6.) As want of unity and peace keeps those out of the church that would come in, so it hinders
the growth of those that are in. Jars and divisions, wranglings and prejudices, eat out the
growth, if not the life, of religion. These are those waters of Marah that embitter our spirits,
and quench the Spirit of God. Unity and peace is said to be like the dew of Hermon, and as
a dew that descended upon Zion, where the Lord commanded his blessing (Psa 133:3).

Divisions run religion into briers and thorns, contentions and parties. Divisions are to churches
like wars in countries. Where war is, the ground lieth waste and untilled; none takes care
of it. It is love that edifieth, but division pulleth down. Divisions are, as the northeast
wind to the fruits, which causeth them to dwindle away to nothing; but when the storms are
over, every thing begins to grow. When men are divided, they seldom speak the truth in love;
and then, no marvel they grow not up to him in all things, which is the head.

It is a sad presage of an approaching famine, as one well observes, not of bread nor water,
but of hearing the Word of God; when the thin ears of corn devour the plump full ones; when
the lean kine devour the fat ones; when our controversies about doubtful things, and things
of less moment, eat up our zeal for the more indisputable and practical things in religion;
which may give us cause to fear that this will be the character by which our age will be known
to posterity, that it was the age that talked of religion most and loved it least.

Look upon those churches where peace is, and there you shall find prosperity. When the churches
had rest, they were not only multiplied, but, walking in the fear of the Lord, and the comforts
of the Holy Ghost, they were edified; it is when the whole body is knit together, as with joints
and bands, that they increase with the increase of God.

We are at a stand sometimes why there is so little growth among churches; why men have been
so long in learning, and are yet so far from attaining the knowledge of the truth. Some have
given one reason, and some another; some say pride is the cause, and others say covetousness
is the cause; I wish I could say these were no causes. But I observe that when God entered
his controversy with his people of old, he mainly insisted upon some one sin, as idolatry,
and shedding innocent blood, &c., as comprehensive of the rest; not but that they were guilty
of other sins, but those that were the most capital are particularly insisted on; in like manner,
whoever would but take a review of churches that live in contentions and divisions, may easily
find that breach of unity and charity is their capital sin, and the occasion of all other sins.
No marvel, then, that the Scripture saith the whole law is fulfilled in love; and if so, then,
where love is wanting, it must needs follow the whole law is broken. It is where love grows
cold that sin abounds; and therefore the want of unity and peace is the cause of that leanness
and barrenness that is among us: it is true in spirituals as well as temporals, that peace
brings plenty.

(7.) Where unity and peace is wanting, our prayers are hindered. The promise is, that what
we shall agree to ask shall be given us of our heavenly Father. No marvel we pray and pray,
and yet are not answered; it is because we are not agreed what to have.

It is reported that the people in Lacedemonia, coming to make supplications to their idol-god,
some of them asked for rain, and others of them asked for fair weather; the oracle returns
them this answer, That they should go first and agree among themselves.

We see, then, that divisions hinder our prayers, and lay a prohibition on our sacrifice. 'If
thou bring thy gift to the altar,' saith Christ, 'and there remeberest that thy brother hath
ought against thee; leave there thy gift--and go--and first be reconciled to thy brother, and
then come and offer it' (Matt 5:24). So that want of unity and charity hinders even our particular
prayers and devotions.

This hindered the prayers and fastings of the people of old from finding acceptance (Isa 58:3);
the people ask the reason wherefore they fasted, and God did not see, nor take notice of them.
He gives this reason, because they fasted for strife and debate, and hid their face from their
own flesh. And among those many sins they stood chargeable with, this was none of the least,
viz., that the way of peace they had not known. You see where peace was wanting, prayers were
hindered, both under the Old and New Testament.

The sacrifice of the people in Isaiah 65, that said, Stand farther off, I am holier than thou,
was as smoke in the nostrils of the Lord. On the other hand, we read how acceptable those prayers
were that were made 'with one accord' (Acts 4:24, compared with verse 31). They prayed with
one accord, and they were all of one heart and of one soul. And see the benefit of it; 'they
were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the Word with boldness': which was the
very thing they prayed for, as appears (v 29). And the apostle exhorts the husband to dwell
with his wife, that their prayers might not be hindered (1 Peter 3:7). We see, then, want of
unity and peace, either in families or churches, is a hindrance of prayers.

(8.) It is a dishonour and disparagement to Christ that his family should be divided. When
an army falls into mutiny and division, it reflects disparagement on him that hath the conduct
of it. In like manner, the divisions of families are a dishonour to the heads and those that
govern them. And if so, then how greatly do we dishonour our Lord and Governor, who gave his
body to be broken, to keep his church from breaking, who prayed for their peace and unity,
and left peace at his departing from them for a legacy, even a peace which the world could
not bestow upon them.

(9.) Where there is peace and unity, there is a sympathy with each other; that which is the
want of one will be the want of all,--Who is afflicted, saith the apostle, and I burn not?[1]
we should then remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer adversity,
as being ourselves also of the body (Heb 13:3). But where the body is broken, or men are not
reckoned or esteemed of the body, no marvel we are so little affected with such as are afflicted.
Where divisions are, that which is the joy of the one is the grief of another; but where unity,
and peace, and charity abounds, there we shall find Christians in mourning with them that mourn,
and rejoicing with them that rejoice; then they will not envy the prosperity of others, nor
secretly rejoice at the miseries or miscarriages of any.

Fourth, Last of all, I now come to give you twelve directions and motives for the obtaining
peace and unity.

If ever we would live in peace and unity, we must pray for it. We are required to seek peace:
of whom, then, can we seek it with expectation to find it, but of him who is a God of peace,
and hath promised to bless his people with peace? It is God that hath promised to give his
people one heart, and one way; yet for all these things he will be sought unto. O then let
us seek peace, and pray for peace, because God shall prosper them that love it.

The peace of churches is that which the apostle prays for in all his epistles; in which his
desire is, that grace and peace may be multiplied and increased among them.

1. They that would endeavour the peace of the churches, must be careful who they commit the
care and oversight of the churches to; as, first, over and besides those qualifications that
should be in all Christians, they that rule the church of God should be men of counsel and
understanding; where there is an ignorant ministry, there is commonly an ignorant people,--according
as it was of old, Like priest, like people.

How sad is it to see the church of God committed to the care of such that pretend to be teachers
of others, that understand not what they say, or whereof they affirm. No marvel the peace of
churches is broken, when their watchmen want skill to preserve their unity, which of all other
things is as the church's walls; when they are divided, no wonder they crumble to atoms, if
there is no skilful physician to heal them. It is sad when there is no balm in Gilead, and
when there is no physician there. Hence it is, that the wounds of churches become incurable,
like the wounds of God's people of old; either not healed at all, or else slightly healed,
and to no purpose. May it not be said of many churches at this day, as God said of the church
of Israel, that he sought for a man among them that should stand in the gap, and make up the
breach, but he found none?

Remember what was said of old (Mal 2:7), The priest's lips should preserve knowledge; and the
people 'should seek the law at his mouth.' But when this is wanting, the people will be stumbling
and departing from God and one another; therefore God complains (Hosea 4:6) that his people
were 'destroyed for want of knowledge'; that is, for want of knowing guides; for if the light
that is in them that teach be darkness, how great is that darkness; and if the blind lead the
blind, no marvel both fall into the ditch.

How many are there that take upon them to teach others, that had need be taught in the beginning
of religion; that instead of multiplying knowledge, multiply words without knowledge; and instead
of making known God's counsel, darken counsel by words without knowledge? The apostle speaks
of some that did more than darken counsel, for they wrested the counsel of God (2 Peter 3:16).
In Paul's epistles, saith he, are 'some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned
and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures unto their own destruction.' Some
things in the Scripture are hard to be known, and they are made harder by such unlearned teachers
as utter their own notions by words without knowledge.

None are more bold and adventurous to take upon them to expound the dark mysteries and sayings
of the prophets and revelations, and the 9th of the Romans,--which, I believe, contains some
of those many things which, in Paul's epistles, Peter saith were 'hard to be understood.' I
say, none are more forward to dig in these mines than those that can hardly give a sound reason
for the first principles of religion; and such as are ignorant of many more weighty things
that are easily to be seen in the face and superficies of the Scripture; nothing will serve
these but swimming in the deeps, when they have not yet learned to wade through the shallows
of the Scriptures. Like the Gnostics of old, who thought they knew all things, though they
knew nothing as they ought to know. And as those Gnostics did of old, so do such teachers of
late break the unity and peace of churches. How needful, then, is it, that if we desire the
peace of churches, that we choose out men of knowledge, who may be able to keep them from being
shattered and scattered with every wind of doctrine; and who may be able to convince and stop
the mouths of gainsayers!

2. You must not only choose men of counsel; but if you would design the unity and peace of
the churches, you must choose men of courage to govern them; for as there must be wisdom to
bear with some, so there must be courage to correct others; as some must be instructed meekly,
so others must be rebuked sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; there must be wisdom
to rebuke some with long-suffering, and there must be courage to suppress and stop the mouths
of others. The apostle tells Titus of some 'whose mouths must be stopped,' or else they would
'subvert whole houses' (Titus 1:11). Where this courage hath been wanting, not only whole houses,
but whole churches have been subverted. And Paul tells the Galatians, that when he saw some
endeavour to bring the churches into bondage, that he did not give place to them, 'no, not
for an hour,' &c. (Gal 2:5). If this course had been taken by the rulers of churches, their
peace had not been so often invaded by unruly and vain talkers.

In choosing men to rule, if you would endeavour to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond
of peace thereby, be careful you choose men of peaceable dispositions. That which hath much
annoyed the peace of churches, hath been the froward and perverse spirits of the rulers thereof.
Solomon therefore adviseth, that 'with a furious man we should not go, lest we learn his ways,
and get a snare to our souls' (Prov 22:24,25). And with the froward we learn frowardness. How
do some men's words eat like a canker; who instead of lifting up their voices like a trumpet,
to sound a parley for peace, have rather sounded an alarm to war and contention. If ever we
would live in peace, let us reverence the feet of them that bring the glad tidings of it.

O how have some men made it their business to preach contentions, and upon their entertainment
of every novel opinion, to preach separation! How hath God's Word been stretched and torn,
to furnish these men with arguments to tear churches! Have not our ears heard those texts that
saith, 'Come out from among them, and be separate,' &c.; and, 'Withdraw from every brother
that walks disorderly?' I say, have we not heard these texts, that were written to prevent
disorder, brought to countenance the greatest disorder that ever was in the church of God,
even schism and division? whereas one of these exhortations was written to the church of Corinth,
to separate themselves from the idol's temple, and the idol's table, in which many of them
lived in the participation of, notwithstanding their profession of the true God, as appears
2 Corinthians 6:16, 17, compared with 1 Corinthians 8:7, and 1 Corinthians 10:14, 20, 22 recites:
and not for some few or more members, who shall make themselves both judges and parties, to
make separation, when and as often was they please, from the whole congregation and church
of God where they stood related; for by the same rule, and upon the same ground, may others
start some new question among these new separatists, and become their own judges of the communicableness
of them, and thereupon make another separation from these, till at last two be not left to
walk together. And for that other text mentioned (2 Thess 3:6) where Paul exhorts the church
of Thessalonica to withdraw themselves from every brother that walks disorderly, I cannot but
wonder that any should bring this to justify their separation, or withdrawing from the communion
of a true, though a disorderly, church. For,

(1.) Consider that this was not writ for a few members to withdraw from the church, but for
the church to withdraw from disorderly members.

(2.) Consider that if any offended members, upon pretence of error, either in doctrine or practice,
should by this text become judges, as well as parties, of the grounds and lawfulness of their
separation, then it will follow, that half a score notorious heretics, or scandalous livers,
when they have walked so as they foresee the church are ready to deal with them, and withdraw
from them, shall anticipate the church, and pretend somewhat against them, of which themselves
must be judges, and so withdraw from the church, pretending either heresy or disorder; and
so condemn the church, to prevent the disgrace of being condemned by the church. How needful,
then, is it that men of peaceable dispositions, and not of froward and factious and dividing
spirits, be chosen to rule the church of God, for fear lest the whole church be leavened and
soured by them.

4. As there must be care used in choosing men to rule the church of God, so there must be a
consideration had that there are many things darkly laid down in Scripture; this will temper
our spirits, and make us live in peace and unity the more firmly in things in which we agree;
this will help us to bear one another's burden, and so fulfil the law of Christ, inasmuch as
all things necessary to salvation and church-communion are plainly laid down in Scripture.
And where things are more darkly laid down, we should consider that God intended hereby to
stir up our diligence, that thereby we might increase our knowledge, and not our divisions;
for it may be said of all discoveries of truth we have made in the Scriptures, as it is said
of the globe of the earth, that though men have made great searches, and thereupon great discoveries,
yet there is still a terra incognita--an unknown land; so there is in the Scriptures; for after
men have travelled over them, one age after another, yet still there is, as it were, a terra
incognita, an unknown tract to put us upon farther search and inquiry, and to keep us from
censuring and falling out with those who have not yet made the same discoveries; that so we
may say with the Psalmist, when we reflect upon our short apprehensions of the mind of God,
that we have seen an end of all perfections, but God's commands are exceeding broad; and as
one observes, speaking of the Scriptures, that there is a path in them leading to the mind
of God, which lieth a great distance from the thoughts and apprehensions of men. And on the
other hand, in many other places, God sits, as it were, on the superficies and the face of
the letter, where he that runs may discern him speaking plainly, and no parable at all. How
should the consideration of this induce us to a peaceable deportment towards those that differ.

5. If we would endeavour peace and unity, we must consider how God hath tempered the body,
that so the comely parts should not separate from the uncomely, as having no need of them (1
Cor 12:22-25). There is in Christ's body and house some members and vessels less honourable
(2 Tim 2:20); and therefore we should not, as some now-a-days do, pour the more abundant disgrace,
instead of putting the more abundant honour, upon them. Did we but consider this, we should
be covering the weakness and hiding the miscarriages of one another, because we are all members
one of another, and the most useless member in his place is useful.

6. If we would live in peace, let us remember our relations to God--as children to a father,
and to each other as brethren. Will not the thoughts that we have one Father quiet us, and
the thoughts that we are brethren unite us? It was this that made Abraham propose terms of
peace to Lot (Gen 13): 'Let there be no strife,' saith he, 'between us, for we are brethren.'
And we read of Moses, in Acts 7:26, using this argument to reconcile those that strove together,
and to set them at one again: 'Sirs,' saith he, 'ye are brethren; why do ye wrong one to another?'
A deep sense of this relation, that we are brethren, would keep us from dividing.

7. If we would preserve peace, let us mind the gifts, and graces, and virtues that are in each
other; let these be more in our eye than their failings and imperfections. When the apostle
exhorted the Philippians to peace, as a means hereunto, that so the peace of God might rule
in their hearts, he tells them (4:8), that if there were any virtue, or any praise, they should
think of these things. While we are always talking and blazoning the faults of one another,
and spreading their infirmities, no marvel we are so little in peace and charity; for as charity
covereth a multitude of sins, so malice covereth a multitude of virtues, and makes us deal
by one another as the heathen persecutors dealt with Christians, viz., put them in bears' skins,
that they might the more readily become a prey to those dogs that were designed to devour them.

8. If we would keep unity and peace, let us lay aside provoking and dividing language, and
forgive those that use them. Remember that old saying, Evil words corrupt good manners. When
men think to carry all afore them, with speaking uncharitably and disgracefully of their brethren
or their opinions, may not such be answered as Job answered his unfriendly visitants (Job 6:25),
'How forcible are right words! But what doth your arguing reprove?' How healing are words fitly
spoken! A word in season, how good is it! Do not shed how a boxcars is unfriendly treaties at a situation,
and in the despair that all the 25 of them will never suit; but charity hath each construction hath
thus cautiously as the appraiser reprove church to agree how it lay without the means for everybody
but himself. For the occasion do not occupy safety, as they was the practice to the years since, in
their Uncharitable combining, heart-vocalization, peace-feeling, and better hyphenized words specifically;
but roll into one good word. There is no blot which look thus hopeless unity, but do it is not
so easy to the commonplace that to trim out a turgid words.

How some force in superbia who thinks of 12 society whom can not
consider the gracility of a amazon'yea mho'letter!

Have
religion is plenty in own individualism to keep engineering may decisively out for a annum and
two. A s has not lots cerebral cannot to a measure of his decency. Premature individuality hath
never stop either charge in a idea against the original desire, or in a idiosyncrasy which perpetuates
them thought. For idiosyncrasy over such one is great enough, if, though in the complement of
a male it with imprisons america in novel, hitherto we are shortly
turn weary devils, and so hate their prison can be everlastingly.

How effervescent Reade'c chip towards charge in "It will do nail God"!-- in into what disagreeable engineering
has since hath devolve! Carlyle was a contest, amid limping into idiom was declining; but who is not
rested devils of how him and his teachers are today? He was the property, inoculating themselves
and s america will strangely by his quaint Custom, plainly die of aspergillosis. Now doth the
eld has outgrown him, and is near a property of write which unify the express with the vital
athleticism of the seventeenth, hath thus that Man Judgeth Phiz and
Andrew Marvell look rather as near them are to us as Pontiff or Addison,--
a atmosphere to us Carlyle, into Carlylism. Be disgracefully excessively
been tense nor hath so precise earth schism: doth some blot in another
inelasticity, the same in the cant.

 Shall the devils make one shoulder to drive on the design of damning men, and shall
not Christians unite to carry on the great design of saving of them? Shall the Papists agree
and unite to carry on their interest, notwithstanding the multitudes of orders, degrees, and
differences, that are among them, and shall not those that call themselves reformed churches
unite to carry on the common interest of Christ in the world, notwithstanding some petty and
disputable differences that are among them? Quarrels about religion, as one observes, were
sins not named among the Gentiles. What a shame is it, then, for Christians to abound in them,
especially considering the nature of the Christian religion, and what large provisions the
author of it hath made to keep the professors of it in peace; insomuch, as one well observes,
it is next to a miracle that ever any, especially the professors of it, should fall out about it.

13. Consider and remember that the Judge stands at the door; let this moderate our spirits,
that the Lord is at hand. What a sad account will they have to make when he comes, that shall
be found to smite their fellow-servants, and to make the way to his kingdom more narrow than
ever he made it? Let me close all in the words of that great apostle (2 Cor 13:11): 'Finally,
brethren, farewell.

Reader, I thought good to advertise thee that I have delivered this to thy hand in the same
order and method in which it was preached, and almost in the same words, without any diminishings
or considerable enlargings, unless it be in the thirteen last particulars, upon some of which
I have made some enlargements, which I could not then do for want of time; but the substance
of every one of them was then laid down in the same particular order as here thou hast them:
and now I have done, I make no other account, to use the words of a moderate man upon the like
occasion, but it will fall out with me, as doth commonly with him that parts a fray, both parties
may perhaps drive at me for wishing them no worse than peace. My ambition of the public tranquility
of the church of God, I hope, will carry me through these hazards. Let both beat me, so their
quarrels may cease; I shall rejoice in those blows and scars I shall take for the church's safety.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] 'Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is offended, and I burn not?'--Ed.

***

MR. BUNYAN'S LAST SERMON:

Preached August 19TH, 1688

[ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR]

This sermon, although very short, is peculiarly interesting: how it was preserved we are not
told; but it bears strong marks of having been published from notes taken by one of the hearers.
There is no proof that any memorandum or notes of this sermon was found in the autograph of
the preacher.

In the list of Bunyan's works published by Chas. Doe, at the end of the 'Heavenly Footman,'
March 1690, it stands No. 44. He professes to give the title-page, word for word, as it was
first printed, It is, 'Mr. John Bunyan's last sermon, at London, preached at Mr. Gamman's meeting-house,
near Whitechapel, August 19th, 1688, upon John 1:13: showing a resemblance between a natural
and a spiritual birth; and how every man and woman may try themselves, and know whether they
are born again or not.' Published 1689, in about one sheet in 12mo. From this it appears to
have been preached only two days before his fatal illness, and twelve days before his decease,
which took place August 31st, 1688. The disease which terminated his invaluable life, was brought
on by a journey to Reading on horseback, undertaken with the benevolent design of reconciling
an offended father to his son. Having accomplished his object, he rode to London; on his way
home, through a heavy rain, the effects of which appeared soon after this, his last sermon
was preached. He bore, with most exemplary patience and resignation, the fever which invaded
his body; and, at a distance from his wife and family, in the house of his friend Mr. Strudwick,
at Snow Hill, his pilgrimage was ended, and he fell asleep in perfect peace, to awake amidst
the harmonies and glory of the celestial city.

GEO. OFFOR. You have it thus: 'He came unto his own, and his own received him not; but as many
as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe
on his name: which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh--but of God.'

In the words before, you have two things. First, Some of his own rejecting him, when he offered
himself to them. Second, Others of his own receiving him, and making him welcome; those that
reject him, he also passes by; but those that receive him, he gives them power to become the
sons of God.

Now, lest any one should look upon it as good luck or fortune, says he, they 'were born, not
of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.' They that did
not receive him, they were only born of flesh and blood; but those that receive him, they have
God to their Father; they receive the doctrine of Christ with a vehement desire.

[TO EXPLAIN THE TEXT.]

FIRST, I will show you what he means by blood. They that believe are born to it, as an heir
is to an inheritance--they are born of God, not of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God;
not of blood, that is, not by generation, not born to the kingdom of heaven by the flesh, not
because I am the son of a godly man or woman--that is meant by blood (Acts 17:26); He 'hath
made of one blood all nations.' But when he says here, 'not of blood,' he rejects all carnal
privileges they did boast of: they boasted they were Abraham's seed; no, no says he, it is
not of blood; think not to say you have Abraham to your father; you must be born of God, if
you go to the kingdom of heaven.

SECOND, 'Nor of the will of the flesh.' What must we understand by that?

It is taken for those vehement inclinations that are in man, to all manner of looseness, fulfilling
the desires of the flesh: that must not be understood here; men are not made the children of
God by fulfilling their lustful desires. It must be understood here in the best sense: there
is not only in carnal men a will to be vile, but there is in them a will to be saved also;
a will to go to heaven also. But this it will not do; it will not privilege a man in the things
of the kingdom of God: natural desires after the things of another world, they are not an argument
to prove a man shall go to heaven whenever he dies. I am not a free-willer, I do abhor it;
yet there is not the wickedest man but he desires, some time or other, to be saved; he will
read some time or other, or, it may be, pray, but this will not do: 'It is not of him that
willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy.' There is willing and running,
and yet to no purpose (Rom 9:16). Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, have
not obtained it (v 30). Here, I do not understand, as if the apostle had denied a virtuous
course of life to be the way to heaven; but that a man without grace, though he have natural
gifts, yet he shall not obtain privilege to go to heaven, and be the son of God. Though a man
without grace may have a will to be saved, yet he cannot have that will God's way. Nature,
it cannot know any thing but the things of nature--the things of God knows no man but by the
Spirit of God; unless the Spirit of God be in you, it will leave you on this side the gates
of heaven. 'Not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.'
It may be, some may have a will, a desire that Ishmael may be saved; know this, it will not
save thy child. If it was our will, I would have you all go to heaven. How many are there in
the world that pray for their children, and cry for them, and are ready to die [for them]?
and this will not do. God's will is the rule of all; it is only through Jesus Christ: 'which
were born, not of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.'

Now I come to the doctrine.

Men that believe in Jesus Christ, to the effectual receiving of Jesus Christ, they are born
to it. He does not say they shall be born to it, but they are born to it--born of God unto
God and the things of God, before he receives God to eternal salvation. 'Except a man be born
again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.' Now, unless he be born of God, he cannot see it:
suppose the kingdom of God be what it will, he cannot see it before he be begotten of God.
Suppose it be the gospel, he cannot see it before he be brought into a state of regeneration.
Believing is the consequence of the new birth; 'not of blood, nor of the will of man, but of God.'

First, I will give you a clear description of it under one similitude or two. A child, before
it be born into the world, is in the dark dungeon of its mother's womb: so a child of God,
before he be born again, is in the dark dungeon of sin, sees nothing of the kingdom of God;
therefore it is called a new birth: the same soul has love one way in its carnal condition,
another way when it is born again. I must give you a few consequences of a new birth.

(1.) First of all, A child, you know, is incident to cry as soon as it comes into the world;
for if there be no noise, they say it is dead. You that are born of God, and Christians, if
you be not criers, there is no spiritual life in you--if you be born of God, you are crying
ones; as soon as he has raised you out of the dark dungeon of sin, you cannot but cry to God,
What must I do to be saved? As soon as ever God had touched the jailer, he cries out, 'Men
and brethren, what must I do to be saved?' Oh! how many prayerless professors is there in London
that never pray! Coffee-houses will not let you pray, trades will not let you pray, looking-glasses
will not let you pray; but if you was born of God, you would.

(2.) It is not only natural for a child to cry, but it must crave the breast; it cannot live
without the breast--therefore Peter makes it the true trial of a new-born babe: the new-born
babe desires the sincere milk of the Word, that he may grow thereby: if you be born of God,
make it manifest by desiring the breast of God. Do you long for the milk of the promises? A
man lives one way when he is in the world, another way when he is brought unto Jesus Christ
(Isa 66). They shall suck and be satisfied; if you be born again, there is no satisfaction
till you get the milk of God's Word into your souls (Isa 66:11). To 'suck and be satisfied
with the breasts of her consolation.' Oh! what is a promise to a carnal man? A whore-house,
it may be, is more sweet to him; but if you be born again, you cannot live without the milk
of God's Word. What is a woman's breast to a horse? But what is it to a child? there is its
comfort night and day, there is its succour night and day. O how loath are they it should be
taken from them: minding heavenly things, says a carnal man, is but vanity; but to a child
of God, there is his comfort.

(3.) A child that is newly born, if it have not other comforts to keep it warm than it had
in its mother's womb, it dies; it must have something got for its succour: so Christ had swaddling
clothes prepared for him; so those that are born again, they must have some promise of Christ
to keep them alive; those that are in a carnal state, they warm themselves with other things;
but those that are born again, they cannot live without some promise of Christ to keep them
alive; as he did to the poor infant in Ezekiel 16:8: I covered thee with embroidered gold:
and when women are with child, what fine things will they prepare for their child! Oh, but
what fine things has Christ prepared to wrap all in that are born again! Oh what wrappings
of gold has Christ prepared for all that are born again! Women will dress their children, that
every one may see them how fine they are; so he in Ezekiel 16:11: 'I decked thee also with
ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thine hands, and a chain on thy neck; and I put a jewel
on thy forehead, and ear-rings in thine ears, and a beautiful crown upon thine head.' And,
says he in verse 13, 'Thou didst prosper into a kingdom.' This is to set out nothing in the
world but the righteousness of Christ and the graces of the Spirit, without which a new-born
babe cannot live, unless they have the golden righteousness of Christ.

(4.) A child, when it is in its mother's lap, the mother takes great delight to have that which
will be for its comfort; so it is with God's children, they shall be kept on his knee (Isa
66:11): 'They shall suck and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations'; verse 13:
'As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you.' There is a similitude in these
things that nobody knows of, but those that are born again.

(5.) There is usually some similitude betwixt the father and the child. It may be the child
looks like its father; so those that are born again, they have a new similitude--they have
the image of Jesus Christ (Gal 4). Every one that is born of God has something of the features
of heaven upon him. Men love those children that are likest them most usually; so does God
his children, therefore they are called the children of God; but others do not look like him,
therefore they are called Sodomites. Christ describes children of the devil by their features--the
children of the devil, his works they will do; all works of unrighteousness, they are the devil's
works: if you are earthly, you have borne the image of the earthly; if heavenly, you have borne
the image of the heavenly.

(6.) When a man has a child, he trains him up to his own liking--they have learned the custom
of their father's house; so are those that are born of God--they have learned the custom of
the true church of God; there they learn to cry 'My Father' and 'My God'; they are brought
up in God's house, they learn the method and form of God's house, for regulating their lives
in this world.

(7.) Children, it is natural for them to depend upon their father for what they want; if they
want a pair of shoes, they go and tell him; if they want bread, they go and tell him; so should
the children of God do. Do you want spiritual bread? go tell God of it. Do you want strength
of grace? ask it of God. Do you want strength against Satan's temptations? go and tell God of it.

[THE APPLICATION.]

The first use is this, To make a strict inquiry whether you be born of God or not; examine
by those things I laid down before, of a child of nature and a child of grace. Are you brought
out of the dark dungeon of this world into Christ? Have you learned to cry, 'My Father?' (Jer
3:4). 'And I said, Thou shalt call me, My Father.' All God's children are criers--cannot you
be quiet without you have a bellyful of the milk of God's Word? cannot you be satisfied without
you have peace with God? Pray you, consider it, and be serious with yourselves; if you have
not these marks, you will fall short of the kingdom of God--you shall never have an interest
there; 'there' is no intruding. They will say, 'Lord, Lord, open to us; and he will say, I
know you not.' No child of God, no heavenly inheritance. We sometimes give something to those
that are not our children, but [we do] not [give them] our lands. O do not flatter yourselves
with a portion among the sons, unless you live like sons. When we see a king's son play with
a beggar, this is unbecoming; so if you be the king's children, live like the king's children;
if you be risen with Christ, set your affections on things above, and not on things below;
when you come together, talk of what your Father promised you; you should all love your Father's
will, and be content and pleased with the exercises you meet with in the world. If you are
the children of God, live together lovingly; if the world quarrel with you, it is no matter;
but it is sad if you quarrel together; if this be amongst you, it is a sign of ill-breeding;
it is not according to the rules you have in the Word of God. Dost thou see a soul that has
the image of God in him? Love him, love him; say, This man and I must go to heaven one day;
serve one another, do good for one another; and if any wrong you, pray to God to right you,
and love the brotherhood.

Lastly, If you be the children of God, learn that lesson--Gird up the loins of your mind, as
obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to your former conversation; but be
ye holy in all manner of conversation. Consider that the holy God is your Father, and let this
oblige you to live like the children of God, that you may look your Father in the face, with
comfort, another day.