During this same year the Effective Voting League made a new departure in its propaganda work
by inviting Sir Edward Braddon to address a meeting in the Adelaide Town Hall. As Premier of
Tasmania, Sir Edward had inaugurated the reform in the gallant little island State, and he
was able to speak with authority on the practicability and the justice of effective voting.
His visit was followed a year later by one from Sr. Keating, another enthusiastic Tasmanian
supporter, whose lecture inspired South Australian workers to even greater efforts, and carried
conviction to the minds of many waverers. At that meeting we first introduced the successful
method of explanation by means of limelight slides. The idea of explaining the whole system
by pictures had seemed impossible, but every step of the counting can be shown so simply and
clearly by this means as to make an understanding of the system a certainty. To the majority
of people an appeal to reason and understanding is made much more easily through the eye than
through the ear. The year 1902 saw an advance in the Parliamentary agitation of the reform,
when the Hon. Joseph (now Senator) Vardon introduced a Bill for the first time into the Legislative
Council. The measure had been excellently prepared by Mr. J. H. Vaughan, LL.B., with the assistance
of the members of the executive of the Effective Voting League, among whom were Messrs. Crawford
Vaughan and E. A. Anstey. The Bill sought to apply effective voting to existing electoral districts,
which, though not nearly so satisfactory as larger districts, nevertheless made the application
of effective voting possible. With the enlargement of the district on the alteration of the
Constitution subsequent to federation becoming an accomplished fact, the league was unanimous
in its desire to seek the line of least resistance by avoiding a change in the Constitution
that an alteration in electoral boundaries would have necessitated.

To Mr. Vardon, when he was a candidate for Legislative honours in 1900 the usual questions
were sent from the league; but, as he had not studied the question he declined to pledge himself
to support the reform. Realizing, however, the necessity of enquiring into all public matters,
he decided to study the Hare system, but the league declined to support him without a written
pledge. Still he was elected, and immediately afterwards studied effective voting, became convinced
of its justice, and has remained a devoted advocate. Our experience with legislators had usually
been of the opposite nature. Pledged adherents to effective voting during an election campaign,
as members they no longer saw the necessity for a change in a method of voting which had placed
them safely in Parliament; but in Mr. Vardon we found a man whose conversion to effective voting
was a matter of principle, and not a question of gathering votes. That was why the league selected
him as its Parliamentary advocate when effective voting first took definite shape in the form
of a Bill. When, later, Mr. E. H. Coombe, M.P., took charge of the Bill in the Assembly although
the growth in public opinion in favour of effective voting had been surprising, the coalition
between the Liberal and Labour parties strengthened their combined position and weakened the
allegiance of their elected members to a reform which would probably affect their vested interests
in the Legislature. Mr. Coombe had not been an easy convert to proportional representation.
He had attended my first lecture at Gawler, but saw difficulties in the way of accepting the
Hare system as propounded by me. His experiments were interesting. Assuming a constituency
of 100 electors with 10 members, he filled in 60 Conservative and 40 Liberal voting papers.
The proportion of members to each party should be six Conservatives and four Liberals, and
when he found that by no amount of manipulation could this result be altered he became a convert
to effective voting. His able advocacy of the reform is too well known to need further reference;
but I should like now to thank those members, including Mr. K. W. Duncan, who have in turn
led the crusade for righteous representation in both Houses of Parliament, for of them may
it truly be said that the interests of the people as a whole were their first consideration.
Before I left for America I saw the growing power and strength of the Labour Party. I rejoiced
that a new star had arisen in the political firmament. I looked to it as a party that would
support every cause that tended towards righteousness. I expected it, as a reform party, to
take up effective voting, because effective voting was a reform. I hoped that a party whose
motto was "Trust the people" would have adopted a reform by means of which alone it would be
possible for the people to gain control over its Legislature and its Government. Alas! for
human hopes that depend on parties for their realization! As time after time I have seen defections
from the ranks of proportionalists, and people have said to me:--"Give it up, Miss Spence.
Why trouble longer? Human nature is too bad," I have answered, "No; these politicians are but
the ephemeral creations of a day or a month, or a year; this reform is for all time, and must
prevail, and I will never give it up."

During my many visits to Melbourne and Sydney I had been much impressed with the influence
and the power for good of the local branches of the world-famed National Council of Women.
I had long hoped for the establishment of a branch in South Australia, and was delighted to
fall in with a suggestion made by the Countess of Aberdeen (Vice-President-at-large of the
International Council), through Lady Cockburn, that a council should be formed in South Australia.
The inaugural meeting in September, 1902, was splendidly attended, and it was on a resolution
moved by me that the council came into existence. Lady Way was the first President, and I was
one of the Vice-Presidents. I gave several addresses, and in 1904 contributed a paper on "Epileptics."
In dealing with this subject I owed much to the splendid help I received from my dear friend
Miss Alice Henry, of Victoria, now in Chicago, whose writings on epileptics and weak-minded
children have contributed largely to the awakening of the public conscience to a sense of duty
towards these social weaklings. In 1905 I contributed a paper to the quinquennial meeting of
the International Council of Women, held at Berlin, on the laws relating to women and children
in South Australia, and gave an account of the philanthropic institutions of the State, with
special reference to the State Children's Council and Juvenile Courts. The work of the National
Council in this State was disappointing to many earnest women, who had hoped to find in it
a means for the social, political, and philanthropic education of the women of South Australia.
Had the council been formed before we had obtained the vote there would probably have been
more cohesion and a greater sustained effort to make it a useful body. But as it was there
was so apparent a disinclination to touch "live" subjects that interest in the meetings dwindled,
and in 1906 I resigned my position on the executive in order to have more time to spare for
other public work.

A problem which was occasioning the State Children's Council much anxious thought was how to
deal effectively with the ever-increasing number of the "children of the streets". Boys and
girls alike, who should either be at school or engaged at some useful occupation, were roaming
the streets and parks, uncontrolled and sometimes uncontrollable. We recognised that their
condition was one of moral peril, and graduation to criminality from these nurseries of crime
so frequently occurred that State interference seemed absolutely imperative to save the neglected
unfortunates for a worthier citizenship. It is much easier and far more economical to save
the child than to punish the criminal. One of the most effective means of clearing the streets
would be to raise the compulsory age for school attendance up to the time of employment. That
truancy was to a great extent responsible for these juvenile delinquents was proved by the
fact that more then one-half of the lads sent to Magill had committed the crimes for which
they were first convicted while truanting. Moreover, an improvement was noticed immediately
on the amendment of the compulsory attendance clauses in the Education Act. Truancy--the wicket
gate of the road to ruin in youth--should be barred as effectively as possible, and the best
way to bar it is to make every day a compulsory school day, unless the excuse for absence be
abundantly sufficient. Another aspect of the neglected children problem, which Federal action
alone will solve, is in dealing with cases of neglect by desertion. At present each State is
put to great trouble and expense through defaulting parents. Federal legislation would render
it possible to have an order for payment made in one State collected and remitted by an officer
in another State. By this means thousands of pounds a year could be saved to the various States,
and many a child prevented from becoming a burden to the people at large. These are some of
the problems awaiting solution and the women of South Australia will do well to make the salvation
of these neglected waifs a personal care and responsibility. Perhaps no other work of the State
Children's Council has more practically shown their appreciation of the capabilities of the
children under their care than the establishment of the State children's advancement fund.
This is to enable State children who show any aptitude, to pursue their education through the
continuation schools to the University. To private subscriptions for this purpose the Government
have added a subsidy of 50 pounds, and already some children are availing themselves of this
splendid opportunity to rise in the world. The longer I live the prouder I feel that I have
been enabled to assist in this splendid work for the benefit of humanity.

