There were two or three carriages; one containing Counsellor Webb's family. He himself was
one of the stewards, and, consequently appeared on horseback in a red coat. Another belonged
to Sir Michael Gipson, who owned the greater part of the town, and who drawing about six thousand
a year from this county and the next, had given ten pounds, to be run for by farmers' horses,
contriving thereby to show them that he thought they ought to indulge in expensive amusements,
and to stimulate them to idleness and gambling. As, however, the land in the country was chiefly
let in patches under twenty acres each, and to men who were unable to feed the sorry beast
necessary to keep them in tillage, Sir Michael's generosity had not the effect which it might
be presumed to cause; and his ten pound was annually won by some large tenant, who might call
himself a farmer, but who would make a desperate noise if another man presumed to call him
anything but a gentleman. Of cars there were plenty, crowded with pretty faces, all evidently
intending to be pleased; not invariably, however, for there was Mrs. Keegan in one of those
altogether abominable affairs called inside cars, not because you had any of the comforts of
an inside place in case of rain, for they have no covering, but because the inmates, sitting
on each side, have full power to kick each other's shins, and no liberty to stretch their legs.
There she sat alone, as sour as at the moment when she had first seen her Hyacinth as he was
deposited by the hotel waiter on the mat inside her hall-door.

She looked little as if she was there for amusement, and, in truth, she was not. After a time,
Hyacinth had come to himself; and by dint of continual scolding, much soda-water, and various
lavations, he had enabled himself to make a very sickly appearance on horseback; but the wife
of his bosom was determined that he should not escape from thence to another ordinary, or even
to any hospitable table where he might get drunk for nothing; and, consequently, she was there
to watch him.

There was but one other there that did not seem bent on enjoyment, and this was poor Feemy.
There she was, sitting on the same side of the car with Lyddy McKeon; and the good-natured
mother had taken care that this should be the side facing the horses; but Feemy took no interest
in them. She had given over crying and sobbing; but she was silent, and apparently sullen,
and would much have preferred her own little room at Ballycloran.

There were to be three races. Had there been a prospect of thirty, and among them a trial of
speed between all the favourites of the Derby, there could not have been a greater crowd, or
more anxiety; every ragged, bare-footed boy there knew the names of each horse, and to whom
he belonged, and believed in the invincibility of some favourite beast,--probably from attachment
to its owner,--and were as anxious as if the animals were their own. Among this set, McKeon
or little Larry Kelly were booked to win;--they were kind, friendly masters, and these judges
thought that kind men ought to have winning horses.

"Shure thin," said one half-naked urchin, stuck up in a small tree, growing just out of one
of the banks over which the horses were to pass; "shure thin, Playful's an illigant swate baste
entirely. I'll go bail there's nothin 'll come nigh her this day!"

"That Tony may win the day thin!" said another. "It's he is the fine sportsman."

"Bedad, ye're both out," said a third, squatting as close on the bank as the men would let
him; "it's Mr. Larry 'll win, God bless him!--and none but him--and he the weight all wid him,
and why not? There's none of 'em in the counthry so good as the Kellys. Hoorroo for the Kellys!
them's the boys."

"They do say," said the second speaker, who was only half way up the tree, "that Conqueror
'll win. By Jasus, av he do, won't young Brown be going it!"

"Is it Conqueror?" said the higher, and more sanguine votary of McKeon. "Is it the Brown Hall
horse? He can't win, I tell ye! I saw him as Paddy Cane was leading him down, and he didn't
look like winning; he hasn't got it in him. That he may fall at the first lep, and never stir
again! Tony 'll win, boys! Hurroo for Tony McKeon."

The weighing was now accomplished, and jockeys mounted. Major McDonnell had to look after this
part of the business, of which he knew as much as he did of Arabic. However, he was shoved
about unmercifully for half an hour--had his toes awfully trodden on, for he was told he should
dismount to see the weighing--narrowly escaped a half-hundredweight, which was dropped within
three inches of his foot, and did, I daresay, as much good as stewards usually do on such occasions.

Counsellor Webb was to start them, and, though a counsellor, he was an old hand at the work.
He always started the horses at the Carrick races, and usually one of his own among the lot.
The Counsellor, by the by, was a great favourite with all parties, and what was more, he was
a good man and a gentleman.

Major Longsword from Boyle was the third steward, and he, like his military colleague, was
rather out of his element. He was desired to keep the populace back and preserve the course;
but it seemed to Major Longsword that the populace didn't care a button for him and his red
coat, and though he valiantly attempted to ride in among men, women, and children, he couldn't
move them; they merely pushed the horse back with their hands, and the brute, frightened by
their numbers, wouldn't go on. They screamed, "Arrah, sir! go asy; shure you're on my foot;
musha thin, can't you be quiet with the big horse? faix I'm murdhered with you, sir,--is you
going to ride over us? shure, yer honer, won't you go over there? look how the boys is pressing
in there." The Major soon saw he could do no good, so he rode out of the crowd, mentally determining
that the jockeys might, if they could, clear the course for themselves.

And now they were off--at least seven of them; for when the important morning came, the Captain
had in vain used every exertion to get a rider for Kickie-wickie. His ambition had at first
soared so high that he had determined to let no one but a gentleman jockey mount her; but gradually
his hopes declined, and at the ordinary he was making fruitless inquiries respecting some proper
person; but in vain, and now he had been from twelve to one searching for any groom in possession
of the necessary toggery. He would have let the veriest tailor in Carrick get on his mare if
he had merely been legitimately dressed. Really, his exertions and his misery were distressing,
for at last he was obliged to send her back to Boyle, after having paid the stakes and the
stable charges for her, and console himself by telling his friends that the gentleman from
Galway, who was to ride for him, had deceived him, and that he could not possibly have put
any one he did not know upon Kickie-wickie.

But the seven are off. There they go, gently cantering, looking so pretty, and so clean--the
riders so steady--the horses so eager. How different they will look when three or four, or
more probably only two, are returning to the post! The horses jaded, the men heated, with whip
speedily raised, and sharply falling--spurs bloody--and jackets soiled, by perhaps more than
one violent fall; and yet in ten minutes this will be their appearance.

"There they go--Hurroo! they're off. Faix, there's Playful at her tricks already--by dad she'll
be over the ropes! steady, Bob--steady, or she'll back on you--give it her, Gayner, my boy,
give it her, never spare her--laws! did you see that? Well if he gets her over the course,
he'd ride the very divil. Well done, Bob, now you've got her--Hurroo, Tony, my boy, you're
all right now:"--and the mare, after a dozen preliminary plunges, joined the other horses.
"Faix, they're all over that--did you see that big brown horse? He's Thunderer--he's a good
horse intirely; did you see the lep he took at the wall?"--and now they had come to a big drain;
all the horses being well together as far as this, excepting Crom-a-boo, who having been forced
through a breach made by some other of the horses in the first wall, had baulked at a bank
which came next, and never went any further. Some one told poor Stark on the course that the
horse didn't run to-day nearly so well as his owner did last night; and it was true enough.

"There goes Conqueror--he's over! Faith then, George is leading.--Brown Hall against the field!"

"Never mind," said some knowing fellow, "he's a deal too fond of leading--he's a deal oftener
seen leading than winning."

"There's little Larry--my! how sweet the mare went over the water. There's Brickbat in it;--no,
he's out. He's an awkward beast. That's Thunderer--Holy Virgin, what a leap! He goes at everything
as if there were twenty foot to cross, and a six foot wall in the middle."

"There's Playful at it again--he'll never get her round. Bad cess to you, you vixen--what made
me bet on you? There, she's over--no she's not;--there's Diana--did you see Pat walk her through?
Faith, she'd crawl up a steeple, and down the other side. There's Playful over--no, she's not;--right
in the middle, by heavens!"

"And Bob under her--come away. My God, he'll be drowned!"

"Gracious glory! did you see that? He's up again;--d----n it but he dived under her; well,
I never saw the like of that; she's out."

"And look, look! Bob's in the seat--you'll win your money now. Well, Bob Gayner, afther that
you'll never live till you're drowned! Come away to the double ditch; that's where they'll
show what they're made of--the mare'll be cooled now, and she'll run as easy as a coach-horse."

And the two rode away to the big fence mentioned, which consisted of a broad flat-topped bank
between two wide dry ditches; while the horses went the round of the course over four or five
intermediate banks.

"Here they come! there's Blake leading. What a stride that horse has! but you'll see he'll
die away now. Larry's second--no, George is second, but Larry's well up."

"Faith, and he's been down too--he and the mare. There's Playful, how she pulls--where's Brickbat?
now then!"

And the Galway horse came at the big fence--Blake pulling him off a little as he came to it,
then stuck his spurs into his horse's flank--gave a lift at his head, and threw his left hand
to the tree of the saddle. The horse gave a terrific leap on the bank--paused for a moment--and
clearing the second ditch, came down safe on his legs with a shock that seemed to shake the field.

"Hurroo! well done! beat that George--now for Brown Hall; no, by Jasus, little Larry's next,--now,
Larry, the Virgin send you safe over!" The mare with the light weight on her back made nothing
of what seemed in the horse so tremendous a jump, and without losing her running, skimmed on
to the bank and off it, and collared the horse before he had regained his stride.

"Good luck to you, masther Larry, it's you that can ride. Hurroo for the Kellys!--Oh, by the
holy, they're both dead!" This last exclamation referred to Conqueror, who had come up to the
fence much heated, but at a great pace. George, never attempting to pull him off, or give him
a moment of breath, using his whip and riding forward over his horse's neck, hurried him on.
The gallant brute leapt with all his force, but not being able to master the height, breasted
it violently, sending his rider a dozen feet into the next field, and falling himself into
the ditch, his head on to the field, with a broken heart, and dead! George, however, was soon
on his feet, for his head was hard and he was used to tumbling.

Before he was on his legs, however, up came Playful, awfully rushing, her neck out--her nose
forward--her nostrils open--her eye eager--covered with foam, but showing no sign of fatigue,
nor any further inclination to baulk. Gayner was sitting her beautifully, not attempting to
hold her, for he knew that if he stopped her, whipcord wouldn't make her run again; but with
a firm, steady pull on her mouth--his hands low, and both on the reins, and his legs well tucked
in. There she came, on at the leap without easing her pace for a moment, and going over the
carcass of the dying animal, cleared it all, bank and ditches at one leap--two and thirty feet
at one stride! There are the marks to this day, for Tony McKeon, in his pride, measured the
ground, and put in stakes to point out the spot where his mare showed herself so worthy of
all his trouble.

Brickbat had quarrelled with some of his namesakes at a wall, and was now nowhere; Diana still
persevered, and got well over the big fence, but her chance was out, unless some unaccountable
accident happened to the three other horses that were still running. On they went; there were
only three more fences, two small banks, and a five foot wall. Thunderer and Miss Fidget neck
and neck took the two banks, the big horse making awfully high leaps at them, Playful nearing
them at every stride, galloping over the banks as though they were but a part of the level
field. Now for the wall. "Now, Nicholas Blake, now, show them how little they think of a five
foot wall in Galway. Faith though, Larry's first--bravo, Roscommon!" He's over, and a couple
of bricks only falling show how lightly Miss Fidget touched it with her hind feet; not so Thunderer;
again the horse made an awful leap, but the pace had been too much for him, he struck the wall
violently with his knees, and, bursting through, gave Blake a fall over his shoulders. Galway,
however, was soon in his saddle again, but not before Bob was over, and had long passed him.

And now there was a beautiful race in between the two mares; and oh! how charmingly both were
ridden! But though Miss Fidget was so favoured in weight, and had begun with the lead, her
elder rival collared her, and beat her at the post by a head. "And why shouldn't she win?"
as Tony said in triumph to his friends, "for hadn't she the dhrop in her? wasn't she by Coriander,
out of Pink, by Highflyer? Of course she'd win--hadn't he known it all the time?"

"That's all very well," said Larry, as he stood with his saddle in his hand, waiting till Bob
got out of the scales, "it was only her d----d long nose and neck that won after all, fur I'll
swear my head was past the post before Bob's."

"Well then, Larry, we'll make a case for the stewards, whether it's your head or the horse's
the judge should go by."

"There's two of 'em," whispered Gayner, "wouldn't know if you were to ask 'em."

Thunderer came in third, and a couple of minutes afterwards, Diana;--and Pat Conner, when he
was laughed at as to his place, truly boasted that at any rate he was the only one that had
been able to ride round the course without a fall.

The chief and most exciting race of the day being over, the more aristocratic of the multitude
seemed with one accord to turn their attention to luncheon. The ladies began to unpack the
treasures with which the wells of their cars had been loaded--cold hams--shoulders of mutton--pigeon
pies--bottles of sherry--and dozens of porter soon made their appearance; and pretty girls
putting cork-screws and carving knives into the hands of their admirers, bid them work for
their food before they ate. Woe betide the young man there who had no female friends on the
course--no one to relieve the pangs of his hunger, or to alleviate that intolerable delay which
seems always necessary between races.

