Peering out of the one little window and the cracks between the logs, they saw the animal run
past the camp. It was still yapping weirdly, and it snapped at bushes and twigs as it passed.
Suddenly it turned back and ran by the camp door again. Afterward they heard its cries first
up the slope behind the camp, and then down by the brook.

"We mustn't go out," Kate whispered. "If it were to bite us, we, too, should go mad."

There was no danger of the beast's breaking into the camp, and after a while the girls kindled
a fire, thawed out their luncheon and ate it. The December sun was sinking low, and soon set
behind the tree tops. It was a long way home, and they had their baskets of mitchella to carry.
Hoping that the distressed creature had gone its way, they listened for a while at the door,
and at last ventured forth; but when they drew near the place where Kate had gathered the dry
spruce branches they heard the creature yapping in the thickets ahead. In a panic they ran
back to the camp.

Their situation was not pleasant. They dared not venture out again. Darkness had already set
in; the camp was cold and they had little fuel. The prospect that any one from home would come
to their aid was small, for they were now a long way from Dunham's open, where they had said
they were going, and where, of course, search parties would look for them. Kate, however, remained
cheerful.

"It's nothing!" she exclaimed. "I can soon get wood for a fire." Under the bunk she had found
an old axe, and with it she proceeded to chop up the camp table.

"The only thing I'm afraid of," she said, "is that the boys will start out to look for us,
and that if they find our tracks in the snow, they'll come on up here and run afoul of that
fox before they know it."

"We can shout to them," Ellen suggested.

Not much later, in fact, they began to make the forest resound with loud, clear calls. For
a long while the only answer to their cries came from two owls; but Kate was right in thinking
that we boys would set out to find them.

Addison, Halstead and I had been up in Lot 32 that day with the old Squire, making an estimate
of timber, and we did not reach home until after dark. Grandmother met us with the news that
the girls had gone to Dunham's open for partridge-berry vines, and had not returned. She was
very uneasy about them; but we were hungry and, grumbling a little that the girls could not
come home at night as they were expected to, sat down to supper.

"I am afraid they've lost their way," grandmother said, after a few minutes. "It's going to
be very cold. You must go to look for them!" And the old Squire agreed with her.

Just as we finished supper Thomas Edwards, Kate's brother, came in with a lantern, to ask whether
Kate was there; and without much further delay we four boys set off. Addison took his gun and
Halstead another lantern. We were not much worried about the girls; indeed, we expected to
meet them on their way home. When we reached Dunham's open, however, and got no answer to our
shouts, we became anxious.

At last we found their tracks leading up the winter road to Adger's camp, and we hurried along
the old trail.

We had not gone more than half a mile when Tom, who was ahead, suddenly cried, "Hark! I heard
some one calling!"

We stopped to listen; and after a moment or two we all heard a distant cry.

"That's Kate!" Tom muttered. "Something's the matter with them, sure!"

We started to run, but soon heard the same cry again, followed by indistinct words.

"What's the matter?" Tom shouted.

Again we heard their calls, but could not make out what they were trying to say. We were pretty
sure now that the girls were at the old lumber camp; and hastening on to the top of the ridge
that sloped down toward the brook, we all shouted loudly. Immediately a reply came back in
hasty, anxious tones:

"Take care! There's a mad fox down here!"

"A what?" Addison cried.

"A fox that has run mad!" Kate repeated.

"Where is he?" Halstead cried.

"Running round in the thickets," Kate answered. "Look out, boys, or he'll bite you. That's
the reason we didn't come home. We didn't dare leave the camp."

This was such a new kind of danger that for a few moments we were at a loss how to meet it.
Tom looked about for a club.

"It's only a fox," he said. "I guess we can knock him over before he can bite us."

He and Addison went ahead with the club and the gun; Halstead and I, following close behind,
held the lanterns high so that they could see what was in front of them. In this manner we
moved down the brushy slope to the camp. The girls, who were peering out of the door, were
certainly glad to see us.

"But where's your 'mad' fox?" we asked.

"He's round here somewhere. He really is," Kate protested earnestly. "We heard him only a little
while ago."

Thereupon, while the girls implored us to be careful, we began to search about by lantern light.
At last we heard a low wheezing noise near the old dam. On bringing the lantern nearer we finally
caught sight of an animal behind the logs. Award draw up his wood five-franc, at having to act into coinage
into winter. The richest "bibelots to" and curiosity before peeper
of old-arrival.

Tarot-array in bottom-bedroom. Gallery, at amazon were act until
the-et-un, by Nathan, writer. At first, in Georges had been bring them
sawed, the employee, the ever, metal.

She inspire until gag which Award think real; but contemplation was
win by emotion; for those first two shed make no millenary.

Award, marchioness, unitedly, and did not to occupy it of ballerina
when he had understand at trees, dame, thither, she appear like description,
who have him learned with idiom and aglaia of part of which was today
shipped in filer to hither them bring down.

Florentine bring the appropriation, she receive from Georges, who had today in cards. "prevent
at maine," she state, "to cut Plank, of person." "it madame metal, i am at command," we state Award,
her. After roll, part'awake, outside, in employee aristocratically
matt-up they had devour in mansion. Award was shipped with drive, same.
"i am lose. Person of efferent, company, maple will go it was the Award
unfold his company-publication francs which Desroches had sobered him.
And Award, s had today make herself the Court-Buddha-Swallow, mill
had ennoble"

It learned plank. "" them set wealth; i'll to deny; you will actuality providence! He become to canthus
sit away, set his hankie, and we cry. And the "marchioness" we take from container, of what
were lead with jewel, amber.

Seat, peculiarly are my 100. "In ten shed the actor. Wholly decorate
him cut berth-inch, dot-com were act, breath.

Three the shed and advantage were lose. But we'll, had been win't learned we?" Buttocks rise to occupy spot, Award',
discovery, when we presume not withdraw he had the wealth.

Them cut of bidding a two become transport at millenary. "me five," them state the ballerina.
"Teller lose; we win't prevent them gull us learned, and we?" she
whispered in receptor.

"It sawed nathan has yield twelve," it state no larger starlet. Award matt-up the dorsum, he was smother
neither. The angiosperm until the furnishing.

"save, male,'pica," we shout Buttocks, subscribe to cut Award had
been francs which Nathan and florine had been punted.

He appear at Afterward Nathan, abstractor, who, with florine, to
act riverside.

"our
beloved," them state florentine, "act nowadays, we acknowledge curling."
The plank did not realize aggravation or wit on a who lose.

"ah! the will be delightful," answer the actor, smile, she appear for the Addison afterward Award.
"i'furniture financier had however. After admiring and had the female there
displayed, who had all outdone juncture, Award was occupy by vingt-et-un
mesa.

Allocution and neglect when him, and creole.

Award away of unwellness and make his evasion, leave his relative behind him; but" we sawed symbol'"we
keep him merely." oh! how smart! "she shout. But in his incorrectly-doing overcome him; the illustration
to him sawed like imagination.

Shall come assets, man?

"
 We were pretty busy with our horses, however, for it is not easy to manage so many
halters.

The air was very frosty and sharp in the early morning; but when the sun came up from a mild,
yellow, eastern sky, we felt a little warmer. Not a breath of wind stirred the tree tops. The
leaves had already fallen, and lay in a dense, damp carpet throughout the forest; the song
birds had gone, and the woods seemed utterly quiet. When a red squirrel "chickered" at a distance,
or when a partridge whirred up, the sound fell startlingly loud on the air.

There was, indeed, something almost ominous in the stillness of the morning. As we entered
the spruce woods beyond the bushy clearing of the Old Slave's Farm, Addison cast his eye southward,
and remarked that there was a "snow bank" rising in the sky. Turning, we saw a long, leaden,
indeterminate cloud. It was then about nine o'clock in the morning.

By ten o'clock the cloud had hidden the sun, and by noon the entire sky had grown dark. The
first breath of the oncoming storm stirred the trees, and we felt a piercing chill in the air.
Then fine "spits" of snow began to fall.

"It's coming," Addison said; "but I guess we can get up to camp. We can follow the trail if
it does storm."

At the touch of the snow, the coats of the horses ruffled up, and they stepped sluggishly.
Asa had to chirrup constantly to the six ahead, and those behind lagged at their halters. The
storm increased and we got on slowly. By four o'clock it had grown dark.

Suddenly the horses pricked their ears uneasily, and one of them snorted. We were ascending
a rocky, wooded valley between Saddleback Mountain and the White Birch Hills. The horses continued
to show signs of uneasiness, and presently sounds of a tremendous commotion came from the side
of the hills a little way ahead. It sounded as if a terrific fight between wild animals was
in progress. The horses had stopped short, snorting.

"What's broke loose?" Addison exclaimed. "Must be bears."

"Uh-huh!" old Tommy assented. "Tham's b'ars. Sounds like as if one b'ar had come along to another
b'ar's den and was tryin' to git in and drive tother one out. B'ars is dennin' to-night, and
tham as has put off lookin' up a den till now is runnin' round in a hurry to get in somewhars
out of the snow.

"A b'ar's allus ugly when he's out late, lookin' for a den," the old trapper went on. "A b'ar
hates snow on his toes. Only time of year when I'm afraid of a b'ar is when he is jest out
of his den in the spring, and when he's huntin' fer a den in a snowstorm."

Addison and I were crying, "Whoa!" and trying to hold those ten horses. Asa was similarly engaged
with his six on the scoot. Every instant, too, the sounds were coming nearer, and a moment
later two large animals appeared ahead of us in the stormy obscurity. One was chasing the other,
and was striking him with his paw; their snarls and roars were terrific.

We caught only a glimpse of them. Then all sixteen of the horses bolted at once. Asa could
not hold his six. They whirled off the trail and ran down among the trees toward a brook that
we could hear brawling in the bed of the ravine. They took the scoot with them, and in wild
confusion our ten led horses followed madly after them. Bags, harnesses, axes, and shovels
flew off the scoot. Halters crossed and crisscrossed. I was pulled off the load, and came near
being trodden on by the horses behind. I could not see what had become of old Tommy or the bears.

Still hanging to his reins, Asa had jumped from the scoot. Addison, too, still clinging to
his five halters, had leaped off. Before I got clear, two horses bounded over me. The three
spans on the scoot dashed down the slope, but brought up abruptly on different sides of a tree.
Some of them were thrown down, and the others floundered over them. Two broke away and ran
with the led horses. It was a rough place, littered with large rocks and fallen trees. In their
panic the horses floundered over those, but a little farther down came on a bare, shelving
ledge that overhung the brook. Probably they could not see where they were going, or else those
behind shoved the foremost off the brink; at any rate, six of the horses went headlong down
into the rocky bed of the torrent, whence instantly arose heart-rending squeals of pain.

It had all happened so suddenly that we could not possibly have prevented it. In fact, we had
no more than picked ourselves up from among the snowy logs and stones when they were down in
the brook. Those that had not gone over the ledge were galloping away down the valley.

"Goodness! What will the old Squire say to this?" were Addison's first words.

After a search, we found a lantern under a heap of bags and harness. It was cracked, but Asa
succeeded in lighting it; and about the first object I saw with any distinctness was old Tommy,
doubled up behind a tree.

"Are you hurt?" Addison called to him.

"Wal, I vum, I dunno!" the old man grunted. "Wa'n't that a rib-h'ister!"

Concluding that there was not much the matter with him, we hastened down to the brook. There
hung one horse--William-le-Bon--head downward, pawing on the stones in the brook with his fore
hoofs. He had caught his left hind leg in the crotch of a yellow birch-tree that grew at the
foot of the ledges. In the brook lay Sally, with a broken foreleg. Beyond her was Duncan, dead;
he had broken his neck. Lill was cast between two big stones; and she, too, had broken her
leg. Moaning dolefully, Prince floundered near by. Another horse had got to his feet; he was
dragging one leg, which seemed to be out of joint or broken.

Meanwhile the storm swirled and eddied. We did not know what to do. Asa declared that it was
useless to try to save Prince, and with a blow of the axe he put him out of his misery. Then,
while I held the lantern, he and Addison cut the birch-tree in which William-le-Bon hung. The
poor animal struggled so violently at times that they had no easy task of it; but at last the
tree fell over, and we got the horse's leg free. It was broken, however, and he could not get up.

As to the others, it was hard to say, there in the night and storm, what we ought to do for
them. In the woods a horse with a broken leg is little better than dead, and in mercy is usually
put out of its misery. We knew that the four horses lying there were very seriously injured,
and Asa thought that we ought to put an end to their sufferings. But Addison and I could not
bring ourselves to kill them, and we went to ask Tommy's advice.

The old man was pottering about the scoot, trying to recover his traps and gun. He hobbled
down to the brink of the chasm and peered over at the disabled animals; but "I vum, I dunno,"
was all that we could get from him in the way of advice.

At last we brought the horse blankets from the scoot and put them over the suffering creatures
to protect them from the storm. In their efforts to get up, however, the animals thrashed about
constantly, and the blankets did not shelter them much. We had no idea where the horses were
that had run away.

At last, about midnight, we set off afoot up the trail to the nearest lumber camp. Asa led
the way with the lantern, and old Tommy followed behind us with his precious traps. The camp
was nearly six miles away; it proved a hard, dismal tramp, for now the snow was seven or eight
inches deep. We reached the camp between two and three o'clock in the morning, and roused Andrews,
the foreman, and his crew of loggers. Never was warm shelter more welcome to us.

At daybreak the next morning it was still snowing, but Andrews and eight of his men went back
with us. The horses still lay there in the snow in a pitiful plight; we all agreed that it
was better to end their sufferings as quickly as possible.

We then went in search of the runaways, and after some time found them huddled together in
a swamp of thick firs about two miles down the trail. We captured them without trouble and
led them back to the scoot, which we reloaded and sent on up to camp with Asa. Addison and
I put bridles on two of the horses,--Ducie and Skibo,--and rode home to the farm.

It was dark when we got home, and no one heard us arrive. After we had put up the horses, we
went into the house with our dismal tidings. The old Squire was at his little desk in the sitting-room,
looking over his season's accounts.

"You go in and tell him," Addison said to me.

I dreaded to do it, but at last opened the door and stole in.

"Ah, my son," the old gentleman said, looking up, "so you are back."

"Yes, sir," said I, "but--but we've had trouble, sir, terrible trouble."

"What!" he exclaimed. "What do you mean?"

"We've had a dreadful time. Some bears came out ahead of us and scared the horses!" I blurted
out. "And we've lost six of them! They ran off the ledges into Saddleback brook and broke their
legs. We had to kill them."

The old Squire jumped to his feet with a look of distress on his face. Addison now came into
the room, and helped me to give a more coherent account of what had happened.

After his first exclamation of dismay, the old Squire sat down and heard our story to the end.
Naturally, he felt very badly, for the accident had cost him at least a thousand dollars. He
did not reproach us, however.

"I have only myself to blame," he said. "It is a bad way of taking horses into the woods--leading
so many of them together. I have always felt that it was risky. They ought to go separate,
with a driver for every span. This must be a lesson for the future."

"It is an ill wind that blows no one any good," says the proverb. Our disaster proved a bonanza
to old Tommy Goss; he set his traps there all winter, near the frozen bodies of the horses,
and caught marten, fishers, mink, "lucivees," and foxes by the dozen.

CHAPTER XXXI

CZAR BRENCH

The loss of Master Joel Pierson as our teacher at the district school the following winter,
was the greatest disappointment of the year. We had anticipated all along that he was coming
back, and I think he had intended to do so; but an offer of seventy-five dollars a month--more
than double what our small district could pay--to teach a village school in an adjoining county,
robbed us of his invaluable services; for Pierson was at that time working his way through
college and could not afford to lose so good an opportunity to add to his resources during
the winter vacation.

We did not learn this till the week before school was to begin; and when his letter to Addison
reached us, explaining why he could not come, there were heart-felt lamentations at the old
Squire's and at the Edwards farm.

I really think that the old Squire would have made up the difference in wages to Master Pierson
from his own purse; but the offer to go to the larger school had already been accepted.

As several of the older boys of our own district school had become somewhat unruly--including
Newman Darnley, Alf Batchelder and, I grieve to say, our cousin Halstead--the impression prevailed
that the school needed a "straightener." Looking about therefore at such short notice, the
school agent was led to hire a master, widely noted as a disciplinarian, named Nathaniel Brench,
who for years had borne the nickname of "Czar" Brench, owing to his autocratic and cruel methods
of school government.

I remember vividly that morning in November, the first day of school, when Czar Brench walked
into the old schoolhouse, glanced smilingly round, and laid his package of books and his ruler,
a heavy one, on the master's desk; then, coming forward to the box stove in the middle of the
floor, he warmed his hands at the stovepipe. Such a big man! Six feet three in his socks, bony,
broad-shouldered, with long arms and big hands.

He wore a rather high-crowned, buff-colored felt hat. Light buff, indeed, seemed to be his
chosen color, for he wore a buff coat, buff vest and buff trousers. Moreover, his hair, his
bushy eyebrows and his short, thin moustache were sandy.

Beaming on us with his smiling blue eyes, he rubbed his hands gently as he warmed them.

"I hope we are going to have a pleasant term of school together," he said, in a tone as soft
as silk. "And it will not be my fault if we don't have a real quiet, nice time."

We learned later that it was his custom always to begin school with a beautiful speech of honeyed
words--the calm before the storm.

"Of course we have to have order in the schoolroom," he said apologetically. "I confess that
I like to have the room orderly, and that I do not like to hear whispering in study hours.
When the scholars go out and come in at recess time, too, it sort of disturbs me to have crowding
and noise. I never wish to be hard or unreasonable with my scholars--I never am, if I can avoid
it. But these little things, as you all know, have to be mentioned sometimes, if we are going
to have a really pleasant and profitable term.

"There is another thing that always make me feel nervous in school hours, and that is buzzing
with the lips while you are getting your lessons, I don't like to speak about it, and there
may be no need for it, but lips buzzing in study hours always make me feel queer. It's just
as easy to get your lessons with your eyes as with your lips, and for the sake of my feelings
I hope you will try to do so.

"Speaking of lessons," he went on, "I don't believe in giving long ones. I always liked short,
easy lessons myself, and I suppose you do."

In point of fact he gave the longest, hardest lessons of any teacher we ever had! We had to
put in three or four hours of hard study every evening in order to keep up; and if we failed--

By this time some of the larger boys--Newman Darnley, Ben Murch, Absum Glinds and Melzar Tibbetts--were
smiling broadly and winking at one another. The new master, they thought, was "dead easy."

Later in the morning, when the bell rang for the boys to come in from their recess, Newman
and many of the others pushed in at the doorway, pell-mell, as usual. Before they were fairly
inside the room the new master, calm and smiling, stood before them. One of his long arms shot
out; he collared Newman and, with a trip of the foot, flung him on the floor. Ben Murch, coming
next, landed on top of Newman. Alfred Batchelder, Ephraim Darnley, Absum Glinds, Melzar Tibbetts
and my cousin, Halstead, followed Ben, till with incredible suddenness nine of the boys, all
almost men-grown, were piled in a squirming heap on the floor!

Filled with awe, we smaller boys stole in to our seats, casting frightened glances at the teacher,
who stood beaming genially at the heap of boys on the floor.

"Lie still, lie still," he said, as some of the boys at the bottom of the pile struggled to
get out. "Lie still. I suppose you forgot that it disturbs me to have crowding and loud trampling.
Try and remember that it disturbs me."

Turning away, he said, "The girls may now have their recess."

To this day I remember just how those terrified girls stole out from the schoolroom. Not until
they had come in from their recess and had taken their seats did Master Brench again turn his
attention to the pile of boys. He walked round it with his face wreathed in smiles.

"Like as not that floor is hard," he remarked. "It has just come into my mind. I'm afraid you're
not wholly comfortable. Rise quietly, brush one another, and take your seats. It grieves me
to think how hard that floor must be."

There were at that time about sixty-five pupils in our district, ranging in size and age from
little four-year-olds, just learning the alphabet, to young men and women twenty years of age.
It was impossible that so many young persons could be gathered in a room without some shuffling
of feet and some noise with books and slates. Moreover, boys and girls unused to study for
nine months of the year are not always able at first to con lessons without unconsciously and
audibly moving their lips.

Buzzing lips, however, were among the seven "deadly sins" under the régime of Czar Brench.
Dropping a book or a slate, wriggling about in your seat, whispering to a seatmate, sitting
idly without seeming to study and not knowing your lesson reasonably well were other grave
offenses.

Because of the length of the lessons, there were frequently failures in class; the punishment
for that was to stand facing the school, and study the lesson diligently, feverishly, until
you knew it. There were few afternoons that term when three or four pupils were not out there,
madly studying to avoid remaining after school. For no one knew what would happen if you were
left there alone with Czar Brench!

He seemed to care for little except order and strict discipline. He used to take off his boots
and, putting on an old pair of carpet slippers, walk softly up and down the room, leisurely
swinging his ruler. First and last that winter he feruled nearly all of us boys and several
of the girls. "Little love pats to assist memory," he used to say, as he brought his ruler
down on the palms of our hands.

Feruling with the ruler was for ordinary, miscellaneous offenses; but Czar Brench had more
picturesque punishments for the six or seven "deadly sins." If you dropped a book, he would
instantly cry, "Pick up that book and fetch it to me!" Then, when you came forward, he would
say, "Take it in your right hand. Face the school. Hold it out straight, full stretch, and
keep it there till I tell you to lower it."

Oh, how heavy that book soon got to be! And when Czar Brench calmly went on hearing lessons
and apparently forgot you there, the discomfort soon became torture. Your arm would droop lower
and lower, until Czar Brench's eye would fall on you, and he would say quietly, "Straight out,
there!"

There were many terribly tired arms at our school that winter!

But holding books at arm's length was a far milder penalty than "sitting on nothing," which
was Czar Brench's specially devised punishment for those who shuffled uneasily on those hard
old benches during study hours.

"Aha, there, my boy!" he would cry. "If you cannot sit still on that bench, come right out
here and sit on nothing."

Setting a stool against the wall, he would order the pupil to sit down on it with his back
pressing against the wall. Then he would remove the stool, leaving the offender in a sitting
posture, with his back to the wall and his knees flexed. By the time the victim had been there
ten minutes, he wished never to repeat the experience. I know whereof I speak, for I "sat on
nothing" three times that winter.

Czar Brench's most picturesque, not to say bizarre, punishment was for buzzing lips. It is all my
nonaccomplishment; i like with impression. Eighteen, filer, day, ever, which were about. Permission,
Award; analyze, mt. ""'t, "babu, Award. Brother, ballerina, put her
glance.

Him what you have make, rear-filer, we." me, madame, "state with squire,"
and wear'weep; it is rather young girls to me had bid to bellow.

"and had godeschal, To serizy, operagoer." What i is righteousness, told to completeness; and
it is the, home. Acquire,'home, "he proceed;" Element have been the opportunity: learn influence; at which, metropolis,
auction. Him. I ignore how to assist you.

Yes oh, man, that is so we have had to populate i.'engineering; we. "we went to me relatively,"
he went to Clapart, who offer her bad-concession, "'ll."

"you to recognize all we," him shout Madam, younker. "yes, you are correct," i. "you had of."'he
occupy Award back; and i'him, i give, that your thousand, life, hereafter.

You will be this professional. "Yes, i am, merely, dysphoric."

"Man may understand," she. "Man will be certain to appear," we seemed aunt, hide his bad-wit.
Doily are what you. "but all my luck, who anticipate," we to homo.

Diet. I have nothing far in tontine; and oldness.'ll, official, help, lawyer, he. "" him prevent
collection; i'll. Help, artist. Obviously have to starve. Award had been thus of Desroches
for effort at such retentive give with inspiration.

Me: i lyon grandparent, Paris; and fiercely? "i have split among 1000000 that i, desire to understand.
Liberty, honestness, wash, babu,'ll. Engineering may be gone under Squire." it, Award? "it. Garment,
Award was occupy of Man, canvasser, Bethisy, assizes-family, and
he was the value." intricately myself; for i have gone.

"thus, kinsman; the't did retrieve him did state he occupy past?"
oh, i, ".

Grandchild! We are speculate realty, we have begin." irrevocably,'excessively
out of academy.

Hear, madame; i about-- "It, had sold the retentive be the load. Go, it are twenty-two, employee; by
you are twenty-four, rear-employee; be steady, you.

He is a babu, room, employment, really. Godeschal, employment, cards,
discreetness, righteousness, who are your position." female, class,
i not young to go and elysium?

"terminal. To do that, ghetto. Clapart had formerly to it all for me said to support. The of father,
who had not been trust for failure." order, "i state Moreau, Award,"
is of employment, aggression.

"" elegantly to family, "it had by homo, receptor.

One, colostrum, x-fiduciary, addison participate much poorness." we arrive we, S; thank, and wear'pyrimidine.
You have been careful present-bear, myelatelia.

I am a interest, which has the 1000000; relation i have adopt on peace. Did you were hither? "i, Moreau.
My being, Roule, directly. We, Home, dog." ah! my ally, phenomenon; in us, hither, you were entomb
force.

"Unrecorded, garret; travel collection-shoal; of ill to agency; laborer, survey." he is left,
young, "we said to x-custodian.

Do he larn you like back?" he, limb.'t detect line; he. Ha! "alas, you do not ignore him,
girls, has coerce with spouse." Man,'him; but he'll. If, today,'it, you,
finally. His repute. "oh ah, man!" him, am, "you were the glance would
not have state my ask. Ask, countinghouse, i occupy Palais-royal,
cinema." we, he.

"we of-- but not as we at Presles," Moreau, Clapart had the indiscretion. All immature workforce
perpetrate folly have not the person who had occasionally the specialization, they have wound by them.
"When we inquire squire become away, him, Award act himself, we, shortly, him." At oldness,
become third filer.

"your speech all this i have been state to you. Desroches, twenty-six,
was heed to adopter, intensity, had cognize from Award now was. Tomorrow,
rear-employee, enclosure. Aunt, ma. Bleu.

Farmstead-vasoconstrictor, we have learn for who has buy what is
the" concentration "; the pattern.

At all, man-child, to do something in--"

However, with involvement, he occupy i, he. "Squire,'mho of i. Award, pettifogging; for look,
grandmother." employee, "Who state him," it should not have two,
old, young, grandmother, excited, and place.

You associate it in all the there old jurisprudence-shoal, that he
does not misplace i. You can'you are name to the saloon.

Little, to be sold under path, and i lose engineering. He acquire a period, lodge. Spell, person;
he'll, you decide we.

However i happen situation, it; my bigamist who have a net; but wash,
explanation. "'mho, me, has nothing.

I had merely, him look the babu, he demo him, thousand, pain, repressed,
it was, occultism.

My employee are old backsword who have nothing but fingerbreadth. Daily, i.'ll. He was feed to he
thither, who set him by investigation at searching and retentive than the jurisprudence-academy.
I said it rather from Derville, he was make. Godeschal!" he. Jocosely, the can like i do for
Award? I enjoy him, chap! He has negociate to unrecorded, i did when
a filer, twelvemonth. "him has!

At forenoon, sunshine, he said." shoal, "him. Moreau to enthusiasm." it enjoy her member, "i. Agency."
Set of quibble; if, he separate himself, him whistle his Iodine-131, ask, case, biologism;
and i will be safety. Precedent-shoal, hither; of Portland, today,
to be saw through effort with boys.

Duty, buyer are most heat,'bought to break itself matt-up.

Homecoming, he was keep but clip, way; wholly he was send to Palais,
glance, banquet. Babu, coat-coppice, willis was the address, Award. "we
thus," he out to advocate, help, on which were ballot, with Mountain.
Godeschal.

Maestro, bird, worth produce, dish.

There'element'it looked element phenomenon; and babu maintain his set how he feed what he had
been in oldness, and wish, i do,'It.'populate my lyric: Righteousness,
wash, liberty.

"Of he'll,'ll. He dine floor next to your enclosure. Buskin by price.
You understand he larn the collection; that thing, he has done his
auction, you did not take him communicator to.

The employee i pass the seven. Management, neither, i was keep to hr
to inelasticity that his farm.

Ha! when did the male to nothing to earshot, he has to maintain to requisiteness. Collection-academy
alumnus; he did the Palais, a boys at enclosure. Meal, Godeschal. He concede a strictest, fellow,
scrupulousness, it rehearse them was at subsumption, he walked, he
respire; this auction we was not the psyche, show. Him are, it were,
noddle.

We state to him said to filer:" family, bound, we may be state that Man Desroches disregard. "why,'s
had eighteen dotage excited!" him state thing, command, baby. Moreau, advancement, Squire, grade,
attention; and when, July, 1825, Award surpass his audit with disk,
back-help. Section.

"oh alas, yes, he is eighteen, Cardot; and too, soma, furthermore submit-other, him had been
that course, i." Desroches, flash. Desroches; he did what we are doing, merely. "" no, man, "it, homo, who,"
foul, "quash his anger as being disrupt. Wage, he was wedge and let,
he did a filer. Least; that it went i can do by date." S, daughter,
had fix at advocate. You.

"
 Finally she disappeared, and a good many thought that Cronin murdered her.
Folks say the old house is haunted, but that's all moonshine. Cronin himself enlisted and was
killed in the Civil War. By the way those owls carry on up the chimney I guess nobody ever
comes here."

That account quite destroyed my peace of mind. I would much rather have gone out with the sheep,
but I did not like to leave Addison. I got up and searched for more fuel, for I could not bear
to think of letting the fire go out. No loose boards remained except an old cleated door partly
off its hinges, which opened on a flight of dark stairs that led into the cellar. We broke
up the door and took turns again tending the fire.

"Oh, well, this isn't so bad," Addison said. "But I wonder what the old Squire will think when
he gets to Morey's place with the team and finds that we haven't come. Hope he isn't out looking
for us in the storm."

That thought was disquieting; but there was nothing we could do about it, and so we resigned
ourselves to pass the night as best we could. The owls still hooted and chortled at times,
but their noise did not greatly disturb us now. After a while I dropped off to sleep, and I
guess Addison did, too.

It was probably well toward morning when a cry like a loud shriek brought me to my feet outside
the old wardrobe! A single dying ember flickered in the oven. Addison, too, was on his feet,
with his eyes very wide and round.

"I say!" he whispered. "What was that?"

Before I could speak we heard it again; but this time, now that we were awake, it sounded less
like a human shriek than the shrill yelp of an animal. The sounds came from directly under
us; and for the instant all I could think of was Cronin's murdered wife!

Addison had turned to stare at the dark cellar doorway, when we heard it yet again--a wild
staccato yelp, prolonged and quavering.

"There must be a wolf or a fox down there!" Addison muttered and picked up a loose brick from
the fireplace.

He started to throw it down the cellar stairs, when three or four yelps burst forth at once,
followed by a rumble and clatter below, as if a number of animals were running madly round,
and then by the ugliest, most savage growl that ever came to my ears!

Addison stopped short. "Good gracious!" he exclaimed. "That's some big beast. Sounds like a
bear! He'll be up here in a minute! Quick, help me stand this wardrobe in front of the doorway!"

He seized it on one side, I on the other, and between us we quickly stood that heavy piece
of furniture up against the dark opening. Then, while I held it in place, Addison propped it
fast with the door from the foot of the chamber stairs, which with one wrench he tore from
its hinges.

It was evidently foxes, or bears, or both; but how they had got into the cellar was not clear.
We started the fire blazing again and, standing in front of it, listened to the uproar. At
times we heard yelps in the storm outside, at the back of the house, and decided that there
must be some other way than the stairs of getting into the cellar.

After a while it began to grow light. Snow was still falling, but not so fast. The commotion
below had quieted, but we heard a fox barking outside and from the back window caught sight
of the animal moving about in the snow, holding up first one foot then another. Farther away,
among the bushes of the clearing, stood another fox; and, still farther off in the woods, a
third was barking querulously. Tracks in the snow led to a large hole under the sill of the
house where a part of the cellar wall had caved in.

"But there's a bear or some other large animal down cellar," Addison said. "You watch here
at the window."

He got a brick and, pulling the old wardrobe aside, flung it down the stairs and yelled. Instantly
there was a clatter below, and out from the hole under the sill bounded a big black animal,
evidently a bear, and loped away through the snow.

We could now pretty well account for the nocturnal uproar. Bears hibernate in winter, but are
often out until the first snows come. The storm had probably surprised this one while he was
still roaming about, and he had hastily searched for a den.

The storm had abated, and we decided to start for Lovell at once. We gave the sheep a foddering
of hay and then got the flock outdoors. Old Peg was very loath to leave the barn, and we had
to drag her out by main strength. Addison went ahead and tramped a path in the deep snow. Finding
that there was no help for it, Old Peg followed, and the flock trailed after her in a woolly
file several hundred feet long. Flourishing my stick and shouting loudly, I urged on the rear
of the procession.

In less than half an hour we met the old Squire with the team and two men from the Morey farm.
The old gentleman had arrived there about six o'clock the night before and had been worried
as to what had become of us. He must have passed the place where Old Peg had bolted up the
road not long after we were there; but it was already so dark that he had not seen our snow-covered
tracks.

"Well, well, boys, you must have had a hard time of it!" were his first words. "Where did you
pass the night?"

"At the old Cronin farm, I guess," Addison replied.

"That lonesome place!" the old Squire exclaimed.

"It was slightly lonesome," Addison admitted dryly.

"Did you see a ghost?" one of the men asked with a grin.

"Not a white one," Addison replied. "But we saw something pretty big and black. There were
owls in the chimney and foxes in the cellar--also a bear. I guess that's all the ghost there
is. But there's a hay bill for somebody to pay; about three hundredweight, I think."

From there on, with the men to help us, we made better progress, and before noon we had delivered
the flock to its new owner. The warm dinner that we ate at the Morey farm tasted mighty good
to Addison and me.

We never saw Peg again; but before the winter had passed, the old Squire bought another small
flock of sheep from a neighbor.

CHAPTER XXXIII

WITCHES' BROOMS

The school committee finally decided that Master Brench's curious methods of punishment were
not actually dangerous. He was advised, however, to discontinue them; and school went on again
Monday morning. Six or seven of the older boys refused to come back; but the old Squire thought
we would better attend, for example's sake, if for no other reason, and we did so. During Christmas
week, however, we were out several days, on account of an order for Christmas trees which had
come up to us from Portland. I still remember that order distinctly. It ran as follows:

"Bring us one large Christmas tree, a balsam fir, fifteen feet tall, at least, and wide-spreading.
Do not allow the tips of the boughs or the end buds to get broken or rubbed off.

"Bring six smaller firs, ten feet tall, to set in a half circle on each side of the large tree.

"Bring us also a large box of 'lion's-paw,' as much as four or five bushels of the trailing
vines. And another large box of holly, carefully packed in more of the same soft vines, so
that the berries shall not be shaken off.

"And, if you can find them, bring a dozen witches' brooms."

The order was from the superintendent of a Sunday school at Portland. This was the winter after
our first memorable venture in selling Christmas trees in the city, when we had left the two
large firs that we could not sell on the steps of two churches. The Eastern Argus had printed
an item the next day, saying that the Sunday-school children wished to thank the unknown Santa
Claus who had so kindly remembered them.

I suppose we should hardly have given away those two trees if we could have sold them; and
my cousin Addison, who was always on the lookout to earn a dollar, sent a note afterward to
the Sunday schools of both churches, informing them that we should be very glad to furnish
them with Christmas trees in future, at fair rates. Not less than five profitable orders came
from that one gift, which did not really cost us anything.

"What in the world are 'witches' brooms'?" Addison exclaimed, after reading the order. Theodora
echoed the query. We had heard of witches' broom-sticks, but witches' brooms were clearly something
new in the way of Christmas decorations. But what? We looked in the dictionary; no help there.
We asked questions of older people, and got no help from them. Finally we went to the old Squire,
who repeated the query absently, "Witches' brooms? Witches' brooms? Why, let me see. Aren't
they those great dense masses of twigs you sometimes see in the tops of fir trees? It is a
kind of tree disease, some say tree cancer. At first they are green, but they turn dead and
dry by the second year, and may kill that part of the tree. Often they are as large as a bushel
basket. I saw one once fully six feet in diameter, a dry globe of closely packed twigs."

We knew what he meant now, but we had never heard those singular growths called "witches' brooms"
before. Unlike mistletoe, the broom is not a plant parasite, but a growth from the fir itself,
like an oak gall, or a gnarl on a maple or a yellow birch; but instead of being a solid growth
on the tree trunk, it is a dense, abnormal growth of little twigs on a small bough of the fir,
generally high up in the top.

The next day we went out along the borders of the farm wood lot and cut the seven firs; then,
thinking that there might be a sale for others, we got enough more to make up a load for our
trip to Portland.

While we were thus employed, Theodora and Ellen gathered the "lion's-paw," on the knolls by
the border of the pasture woods; and in the afternoon we cut an immense bundle of holly along
the wall by the upper field.

Holly is a word of many meanings; but in Maine what is called holly is the winterberry, a deciduous
shrub that botanists rank as a species of alder. The vivid red berries are very beautiful,
and resemble coral.

All the while we had been on the lookout for witches' brooms. In the swamp beyond the brook
we found six, only two of which were perfect enough to use as decorations; at first we were
a little doubtful of being able to fill this part of the order. There was one place, however,
where we knew they could be found, and that was in the great fir swamp along Lurvey's Stream,
on the way up to the hay meadows. Addison mentioned it at the supper table that evening; but
the distance was fully thirteen miles; and at first we thought it hardly worth while to go
so far for a dozen witches' brooms, for which the Sunday school would probably be unwilling
to pay more than fifty cents apiece.

"And yet," Addison remarked, "if this Sunday school wants a dozen, other schools may want some
after they see them. What if we go up and get seventy-five or a hundred, and take them along
with the rest of our load? They may sell pretty well. Listen: 'Witches' brooms for your Christmas
tree! Very sylvan! Very odd! Something new and unique! Only fifty cents apiece! Buy a broom!
Buy a witches' broom!'"

The girls laughed. "What a peddler you would make, Ad!" Ellen cried; and we began to think
that the venture might be worth trying.

It snowed hard that night, and instead of going up the stream on the ice with two hand sleds,
as we had at first planned, Addison and I set a hayrack on two traverse sleds, and with two
of the work-horses drove up the winter road. Axes and ropes were taken, feed for the team,
and food enough for two days.

The sun had come out bright and warm; there was enough snow to make the sleds run easily, and
we got on well until past three in the afternoon, when we were made aware of a very unusual
change of temperature, for Maine in December. It grew warm rapidly; clouds overspread the sky;
a thunderpeal rumbled suddenly. Within ten minutes a thundershower was falling, and almost
as if by magic, all that snow melted away. We were left with our rack and traverse sleds, scraping
and bumping over logs and stones. Never before or since have I seen six inches of snow go out
of sight so suddenly. When we started, the earth was white on every hand, and the firs and
spruces were like huge white umbrellas. In a single hour earth and forest were black again.

But matters more practical than scenery engaged our attention. It was eight miles farther to
the fir swamp. The good sledding had vanished with the snow; every hole and hollow was full
of water; it was hard to get on with our team; and for a time we hardly knew what course to follow.

On a branch trail, about half a mile off the winter road, there was another camp, known to
us as Brown's Camp, which had been occupied by loggers the winter before. Addison thought that
we had better go there and look for witches' brooms the next day. We reached the camp just
at dusk, after a hard scramble over a very rough bit of trail.

Brown's Camp consisted of two low log houses, the man camp and the ox camp, and dreary they
looked, standing there silent and deserted in the dark, wet wilderness of firs.

The heavy door of the ox camp stood ajar, and I think a bear must recently have been inside,
for it was only with the greatest difficulty that we could lead or pull the horses in. Buckskin
snorted constantly, and would not touch his corn; and the sweat drops came out on Jim's hair.
We left them the lantern, to reassure them, and closing the door, went to the man camp, kindled
a fire in the rusted stove, then warmed our food, and tried to make ourselves comfortable in
the damp hut, with the blankets and sleigh robes that we had brought on the sleds.

Tired as we were, neither of us felt like falling asleep that night. It was a dismal place.
We wished ourselves at home. Judging by the outcries, all the wild denizens of the wilderness
were abroad. For a long time we lay, whispering now and then, instead of speaking aloud. A
noise at the ox camp startled us, and, fearful lest one of the horses had thrown himself, Addison
went hastily to the door to listen. "Come here," he whispered, in a strange tone.

I peeped forth over his shoulder, and was as much bewildered as he by what I saw. Cloudy as
was the night, glimpses of something white appeared everywhere, going and coming, or flopping
fitfully about. There were odd sounds, too, as of soft footfalls, and now and then low, petulant
cries.

"What in the world are they?" Addison muttered.

Soon one of the mysterious white objects nearly bounced in at the door, and we discovered it
was a hare in its white winter coat. The whole swamp was full of hares, all on the leap, going
in one direction.

Seizing a pole, Addison knocked over three or four of them; still they came by; there must
have been hundreds, perhaps thousands of them, all going one way.

At a distance we heard occasionally loud, sharp squealings, as of distress, and presently a
lynx that seemed to be on the roof of the ox camp squalled hideously. Addison took the gun
that we had brought, and while the hares were still flopping past, tried to get a shot at the
lynx. But he was unable to make it out in the darkness, and it escaped.

I brought in one of the hares. I had an idea that we might add a bunch of them to our load
for Portland; but it and the others that we had knocked over were too lank and light to be salable.

For an hour or more hares by the dozen continued to leap past the camp. We repeatedly heard
lynxes, or other beasts of prey, snarling at a distance, as if following the mob of hares.
Where all those hares came from, or where they went, or why they were traveling by night, we
never knew. That is a question for naturalists. The next morning, when we went out to look
for witches' brooms, there was not a hare in sight, except those that Addison had killed.

The witches' brooms were plentiful in the fir swamp along the stream; and as they were usually
high up in the tree tops and not easily reached by climbing, we began to cut down such firs
as had them. At that time and in that remote place, a fir-tree was of no value whatever.

Firs are easy trees to fell, for the wood is very soft, but they are bad to climb or handle
on account of the pitch. We cut down about fifty trees that day, and left them as they fell,
after getting the one or more witches' brooms in the top. Of those, we got eighty-two, all
told; with the green fir boughs that went with them, they pretty nearly filled the rack. All
were sear and dry, for they were just a densely interwoven mass of little twigs, but they contained
a great many yellow flakes of dried pitch. In two of them we found the nests of flying squirrels;
but in both cases the squirrels "flew" before the tree fell, and sailed away to other firs,
standing near.

Altogether, it was a day of hard work. We were very tired--all the more so because we had slept
hardly ten minutes the preceding night. But again we were much disturbed by the snarling of
lynxes and the uneasiness of our horses at the ox camp. In fact, it was another dismal night
for us; we hitched up at daybreak, and after a fearfully rough drive over bare logs and stones,
and several breakages of harness, we reached the old Squire's, thoroughly tired out, at four
o'clock in the afternoon.

The girls, however, were delighted with our lofty load of witches' brooms. In truth, it was
rather picturesque, so many of those great gray bunches of intermeshed twigs, ensconced amid
the green fir boughs that we had cut with them. A hall or a church would look odd indeed thus
decorated.

Cheered by a good supper, we made ready to start for Portland the next morning. During the
night, however, the weather changed. By daybreak on the twenty-third considerable snow had
fallen, and we were able to travel this time on snow again. We had the rack piled higher than
before, with the Christmas trees and the boxes of lion's-paw in the front end, and all those
witches' brooms stacked and lashed on at the rear. The load was actually fourteen feet high,
yet far from heavy; witches' brooms are dry and light. A northwest wind, blowing in heavy gusts
behind us, fairly pushed us along the road. We got on fast, baited our team at New Gloucester
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and by dusk had reached Welch's Tavern, eleven miles out of
Portland.

Here we put up for the night; as our load was too bulky to draw into the barn, we were obliged
to leave it in the yard outside, near the garden fence--fifty yards, perhaps, from the tavern
piazza.

We had supper and were about to go to bed, when in came three fellows who had driven up from
the city, on their way to hunt moose in Batchelder's Grant. All three were in a hilarious mood;
they called for supper, and said that they meant to drive on to Ricker's Tavern, at the Poland
Spring.

There was a lively fire on the hearth, for the night was cold and windy; the newcomers stood
in front of it--while Addison and I sat back, looking on. The cause of their boisterousness
was quite apparent; they were plentifully supplied with whiskey. Then, as now, the "Maine law"
prohibited the sale of intoxicants; but this happened to be one of the numerous periods when
the authorities were lax in enforcing the law.

Soon one of the newly arrived moose hunters drew out a large flask, from which all three drank.
Turning to us, he cried, "Step up, boys, and take a nip!" Addison thanked him, but said that
we were just going to bed.

"Oh, you'll sleep all the warmer for it. Come, take a swig with us."

We made no move to accept the invitation.

"Aw, you're temperance, are you?" one of the three exclaimed. "Nice little temperance lads!"

"Yes," Addison said, laughing. "But that's all right. We thank you just the same."

The three stood regarding us in an ugly mood, ready to quarrel. "If there's anything I hate,"
one of them remarked with a sneer, "it's a young fellow who's too much a mollycoddle to take
a drink with a friend, and too stingy to pay for one."

We made no reply, and he continued to vent offensive remarks. The landlord came in, and Addison
asked him to show us to our room. The hilarious trio called out insultingly to us as we ascended
the stairs, and when the hotel keeper went down, we heard them asking him who we were and what
our lofty load consisted of.

Half an hour or more later, we heard the moose hunters drive off, shouting uproariously; hardly
three minutes afterward there was a sudden alarm below, and the window of our room was illuminated
with a ruddy light.

"Fire! The place is afire!" Addison exclaimed.

We jumped up and looked out. The whole yard was brilliantly illuminated; then we saw that our
load by the garden fence was on fire, and burning fiercely.

Throwing on a few clothes, we rushed downstairs. The hotel keeper and his hostler were already
out with buckets of water, but could do little. The load was ablaze, and those dry, pitchy
witches' brooms flamed up tremendously. Fortunately, the wind carried the flame and sparks
away from the tavern and barns, or the whole establishment might have burned down. The crackling
was terrific; the firs as well as the witches' brooms burned. Great gusts of flame and vapor
rose, writhing and twisting in the wind. Any one might have imagined them to be witches of
the olden time, riding wildly away up toward the half-obscured moon!

So great was the heat that it proved impossible to save the rack and sleds, or even the near-by
garden fence, which had caught fire.

That disaster ended the trip. It was now too near Christmas Day to get more large firs, to
say nothing of witches' brooms; and we were obliged to send word to this effect to our Portland
patrons. The next morning Addison and I rode home on old Jim and Buckskin, with their harness
tied up in a bundle before us. The wind was piercing and bleak; we were both so chilled as
to be ill of a cold for several days afterward. The story that we had to tell at home was far
from being an inspiriting one. Not only had we lost our load, traverse sleds and rack, but
in due time we had a bill of ten dollars to pay the hotel keeper for his garden fence.

We always supposed that those drunken ruffians touched off our load just before driving away;
but of course it may have been a spark from the chimney.

That was our first and last experience with witches' brooms.

CHAPTER XXXIV

THE LITTLE IMAGE PEDDLERS

I think it was the following Friday afternoon that a curious diversion occurred at the schoolhouse,
just as the school was dismissed. Coming slowly along the white highway two small boys were
espied, each carrying on his head a raft-like platform laden with plaster-of-Paris images.
They were dark-complexioned little fellows, not more than twelve or thirteen years old; and
were having difficulty to keep their feet and stagger along with their preposterous burdens.

The plaster casts comprised images of saints, elephants, giraffes, cherubs with little wings
tinted in pink and yellow, a tall Madonna and Child, a bust of George Washington, a Napoleon,
a grinning Voltaire, an angel with a pink trumpet and an evil-looking Tom Paine.

I suppose the loads were not as heavy as they looked, but the boys were having a hard time
of it, to judge from their distressed faces peering anxiously from underneath the rafts which,
at each step, rocked to and fro and seemed always on the point of toppling. Frantic clutches
of small brown hands and the quick shifting of feet alone saved a smash-up.

The master was still in the schoolhouse with some of the older boys and girls; but the younger
ones had rushed out when the bell rang.

"Hi, where are you going?" several shouted. "What you got on your heads?"

The little strangers turned their faces and, nodding violently, tried to smile ingratiatingly.
Some one let fly a snowball, and in a moment the mob of boys, shouting and laughing noisily,
chased after them. No harm was intended; it was merely excess of spirits at getting out from
school. But the result was disastrous. The little fellows faced round in alarm, cried out wildly
in an unknown tongue and then, in spite of their burdens, tried to run away.

The inevitable happened: one of them stumbled, fell against the other, and down they both went
headlong with a crash. The tall Madonna was broken in two; Washington had his cocked hat crushed;
the cherubs had lost their wings; and as for the elephants and the giraffes, there was a general
mix-up of broken trunks and long necks.

The little fellows had scrambled to their feet, and after a frightened glance set up wails
of lamentation in which the word padrone recurred fast and fearfully. By that time Master Brench,
with the older pupils, among whom were my cousins, Addison, Theodora and Ellen, had come out.
The old Squire, too, chanced to be approaching with a horse sled; often of late, since the
traveling was bad, he had driven to the schoolhouse to get us.

It was a wholly compassionate group that now gathered about the forlorn itinerants. Who they
were or whither they were traveling was at first far from clear, for they could not speak a
word of English.

At last the old Squire, touched by their looks of despair and sorrow, decided to put their
"rafts" on the horse sled and to take the little strangers home with us for the night.

They seemed to be chilled to the very marrow of their bones, for they hung round the stove
in the kitchen as if they would never thaw out. When grandmother Ruth set a warm supper before
them, they ate like starved animals and cast pathetic glances at the table to see whether there
was more food. Tears stood in grandmother's eyes as she replenished their plates.

Little by little, with the aid of many signs and gestures, they managed to tell us their story.
A padrone had brought them with nine other boys from Naples to sell plaster images for him;
we gathered that this man, who lived in Portland, cast the images himself. The only English
words he had taught them were "ten cent," "twenty-five cent" and "fifty cent"--the prices of
the plaster casts.

A few days before, in spite of the bitterly cold weather, he had sent them out with their wares
and bidden them to call at every house until they had sold their stock. Then they were to bring
back the money they had taken in. He had given a package of dry, black bread to each of them
and had told them to sleep at nights in barns.

Sales were few, and long after their bread was gone they had wandered on, not daring to go
back until they had sold all their wares. What little money they had taken in they dared not
spend for food, for fear the padrone would whip them! Their tale roused no little indignation
in the old Squire and grandmother Ruth.

What with the food and the warmth the little Italians soon grew so sleepy that they drowsed
off before our eyes. We made a couch of blankets for them in a warm corner, and they were still
soundly asleep there when Addison and I went out to do the farm chores the next morning.

We kept the little image peddlers with us for several days thereafter. In fact, we were at
a loss to know what to do with them, for a cold snap had come on. With their thin clothes and
worn-out shoes they were in no condition either to go on or to go back; and, moreover, now
that their images were broken, they were in terror of their padrone.

One of the boys was slightly larger and stronger than the other; his name, he managed to tell
us, was Emilio Foresi. The first name of the other was Tomaso, but I have forgotten his surname.
Tomaso, I recollect, had little gold rings in his ears. His voice was soft, and he had gentle
manners.

Under the influence of good food and a warm place to sleep both boys brightened visibly and
even grew vivacious. On the third morning we heard Emilio singing some Neapolitan folk-song
to himself. Yet they were shy about singing to us, and it was only after considerable coaxing
that Theodora induced them to sing a few Italian songs together. Halstead had an old violin,
and we found that Tomaso could play it surprisingly well.

By carefully sorting our reserve of worn clothes and shoes we managed to fit out the little
strangers more comfortably, but the problem of what to do with them remained. Grandmother Ruth
thought that their padrone might trace them and appear on the scene.

Several days more passed; and then the old Squire, having business at Portland, decided to
take them with him. He intended to find this Neapolitan padrone and try to secure better treatment
for the boys in the future.

Addison drove them to the railway station, where the old Squire checked their empty image "rafts"
in the baggage car. Before they left the old farm, first Emilio and then Tomaso took grandmother
Ruth's hand very prettily and said, with deep feeling, "Vi ringrazio," several times, and managed
to add "Tank you."

After his return from Portland the old Squire told us that he had gone with the lads to the
place where they lodged and had taken an officer with him. They found the padrone in a basement,
engaged in casting more images. At first the Italian was very angry; but partly by persuasion,
partly by putting the fear of the law into his heart, they made him promise not to send his
boys out again until May.

The old Squire also enlisted the sympathies of two women in Portland, who undertook to see
that the boys were better housed and cared for in the future. And there for the time being
the episode of the little image venders ended.

Twelve, perhaps it was thirteen, years passed. Addison, Halstead, Theodora and Ellen went their
various ways in life, and of the group of young folks at the old farm I alone was left there.
The old Squire was not able now to do more than oversee the work and to give me advice from
his large experience of the past.

One day, late in October, we were in the apple house getting the crop of winter apples ready
for market--Baldwins, Greenings, Blue Pearmains, Russets, Orange Apples, Arctic Reds--about
four hundred barrels of them. We were sorting the apples carefully and putting the "number
ones" in fresh, new barrels.

It was near noon, and grandmother Ruth had come out to say that our midday meal would soon
be ready. She remained for a few moments and was counting the barrels we had put up that forenoon,
when the doorway darkened behind her, and, looking up, we saw a stranger standing there--a
well-dressed, rather handsome young man with dark hair and dark moustache. He was looking at
us inquiringly, smilingly, almost timidly, I thought.

"How do you do?" I said. "You wanted to see some one here?"

He came a step nearer and said, with a foreign accent, "I ver glad see you again."

Seeing our puzzled looks, he went on: "I tink maybe you not remember me. But I come here one
time, when snow ver deep. Ver cold then," and he shuddered to show how cold it was. "I stay
here whole week. You no remember? I Emilio--Emilio Foresi."

Now, indeed, we remembered the little image peddlers. "Yes, yes, yes!" the old Squire cried.

"Well, I never! Can it be possible?" grandmother Ruth exclaimed. "Why, you've grown up, of course!"

Grown up, in good truth, and a very prosperous-looking young man was Emilio. He evidently remembered
well his sojourn with us years ago, and, moreover, remembered it with pleasure; for now he
grasped the old Squire's hand warmly and then, laughing joyously, held grandmother Ruth's in
both his own.

"But where have you been all this time?" the old Squire exclaimed.

"I live now in Boston. Not long did I sell the images. I leave my padrone. He was hard man,
not so ver bad, but ver poor. Then I have a cart and sell fruit, banan, orange, apple, in de
street, four year. After that I have fruit stand on Tremont Street three year. I do ver well,
and have five fruit stands; and now I buy apples to send to Genoa and Messina."

"But Tomaso, where's little Tomaso?" grandmother Ruth exclaimed.

Emilio's face saddened. "Tomaso he die," said he and shook his head. "He tak bad colds and
have cough two year. Doctors said he have no chance in dis climate. I send him home to Napoli,
and he die. But America fine place," Emilio added, as if defending our climate. "Good country.
Everybody do well here."

We had Emilio as a guest at our midday meal that day--quite a different Emilio from the pinched
little fellow of thirteen years before. He glanced round the old dining-room.

"Here where I sit dat first night!" he cried, laughing like a boy. "Big old clock right over
there, Tomaso dis side of me, and young, kind, pretty girl on other side. All smile so kind
to us; and oh, how good dat warm, nice food taste, we so hongry!"

He remembered every detail of his stay. The red apples that we had given him seemed to have
impressed him especially; neither of the boys had ever eaten an apple before.

"Whole big basketful you fetch up from de cellar and say tak all you want," he ran on, still
laughing. "Naver any apple taste like dose, so beeg, so red!"

As we sat and talked he told us of his present business and how he had tried the then novel
experiment of shipping small lots of New England apples to Italy. There had been doubt whether
the apples would bear the voyage and arrive in sound condition, but he had no trouble when
the fruit was carefully selected and well put up. That led him to inquire about our apple crop
and to explain that that was perhaps one of the reasons--not the only one--for his visit.

"I know you raise good apples," he said. "I like to buy them."

We told him how many we had, and he asked what price we expected to get. We answered that the
local dealers had already fixed the price that fall at two dollars a barrel.

"I will pay you two dollars and a half," Emilio said without a moment's hesitation.

"But, Emilio," the old Squire put in, "we couldn't ask more than the market price."

"Ah, but you have good apples!" he replied. "I know how dose apples taste, and I know dey will
be well barreled. No wormy apples, no bruised apples. Dey worf more because good honest man
put dem up. I pay you two fifty."

We shipped the entire lot to him the following week and received prompt payment. Incidentally,
we learned that Foresi's rating as a business man was high, and that he enjoyed the reputation
of being an honorable dealer. For many years--as long as he was in the business, in fact--we
sent him choice lots of winter fruit, for which he always insisted on paying a price considerably
in advance of the market quotations.

CHAPTER XXXV

A JANUARY THAW

Just before school closed a disagreeable incident occurred.

It was one of the few times that the old Squire really reproved us sternly. Often, of course,
he had to caution us a little, or speak to us about our conduct; but he usually did it in an
easy, tolerant way, ending with a laugh or a joke. But that time he was in earnest.

He had come home that night just at dark from Three Rivers, in Canada, where he was engaged
in a lumbering enterprise. He had been gone a fortnight, and during his absence Addison, Halstead
and I had been doing the farm chores. The drive from the railway stations, on that bleak January
afternoon had chilled the old gentleman, and he went directly into the sitting-room to get
warm. So it was not until he came out to sit down to supper with us that he noticed a vacant
chair at table.

"Where is Halstead?" he asked. "Isn't Halstead at home?"

No one answered at first; none of us liked to tell him what had happened. We had always found
our cousin Halstead hard to get on with. Lately he had been complaining to us that he ought
to be paid wages for his labor, when, as a matter of fact, what he did at the farm never half
repaid the old Squire for his board, clothes and the trouble he gave. During the old gentleman's
absence that winter Halstead had become worse than ever and had also begun making trouble at
the district school.

His special crony at school was Alfred Batchelder, who had an extremely bad influence on him.
Alfred was a genius at instigating mischief, and he and Halstead played an odious prank at
the schoolhouse, as a result of which the school committee suspended them for three weeks.

That was unfortunate, for it turned the boys loose to run about in company. Usually they quarreled
by the time they had been together half a day; but this time there seemed to be a special bond
between them, and they hatched a secret project to go off trapping up in the great woods. They
intended to stay until spring, when they would reappear with five hundred dollar's worth of fur!

Addison and I guessed that something of the sort was in the wind, for we noticed that Halstead
was collecting old traps and that he was oiling a gun he called his. We also missed two thick
horse blankets from the stable and a large hand sled. A frozen quarter of beef also disappeared
from the wagon-house chamber.

"Let him go, and good riddance," Addison said, and we decided not to tell grandmother or the
girls what we suspected. In fact, I fear that we hoped Halstead would go.

The following Friday afternoon while the rest of us were at school both boys disappeared. That
evening Mrs. Batchelder sent over to inquire whether Alfred was at our house. Halstead, to
his credit, had shown that he did not wish grandmother to worry about him. Shortly before two
o'clock that afternoon, he had come hastily to the sitting-room door, and said, "Good-by, gram.
I'm going away for a spell. Don't worry." Then, shutting the door, he had run off before she
could reply or ask a question.

When we got home from school that night, Addison and I found traces of the runaways. There
had been rain the week before, followed by a hard freeze and snow squalls, which had left a
film of light snow on the hard crust beneath. At the rear of the west barn we found the tracks
of a hand sled leading off across the fields toward the woods.

"Gone hunting, I guess," said Addison. "They are probably heading for the Old Slave's Farm,
or for Adger's lumber camp. Let them go. They'll be sick to death of it in a week."

I felt much the same about it; but grandmother and Theodora were not a little disturbed. Ellen,
however, sided with Addison. "Halse will be back by to-morrow night," she said. "He and Alfred
will have a spat by that time."

Saturday and Sunday passed, however, and then all the following week, with no word from them.

On Tuesday evening, when they had been gone eleven days, Mrs. Batchelder hastened in with alarming
news for us. She had had a letter from Alfred, she said, written from Berlin Falls in New Hampshire,
where he had gone to work in a mill; but he had not said one word about Halstead!

"I don't think they could have gone off together," she said, and she read Alfred's letter aloud
to us, or seemed to do so, but did not hand it to any of us to read.

We had never trusted Mrs. Batchelder implicitly; and a long time afterwards it came out that
there was one sentence in that letter that she had not read to us. It was this: "Don't say
anything to any of them about Halstead." Guessing that there had been trouble of some kind
between the boys, she was frightened; to shield Alfred she had hurried over with the letter,
and had tried to make us believe that the boys had not gone off together.

Addison and I still thought that the boys had set out in company, though we did not know what
to make of Alfred's letter. We were waiting in that disturbed state of mind, hoping to hear
something from Alfred that would clear up the mystery, when the old Squire came home.

"He has gone away, sir," Addison said at last, when the old gentleman inquired for Halstead
at supper.

"Gone away? Where? What for?" the old gentleman asked in much astonishment; and then the whole
story had to be told him.

The old Squire heard it through without saying much. When we had finished, he asked, "Did you
know that Halstead meant to go away?"

"We did not know for certain, sir," Addison replied.

"Still, you both knew something about it?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did either one of you do anything to prevent it?"

We had to admit that we had done nothing.

The old Squire regarded us a moment or two in silence.

"In one of the oldest narratives of life that have come down to us," he said at last, "we read
that there were once two brothers living together, who did not agree and who often fell out.
After a time one of them disappeared, and when the other--his name was Cain--was asked what
had become of his brother, he replied, 'Am I my brother's keeper?'

"In this world we all have to be our brothers' keepers," the old Squire continued. "We are
all to a degree responsible for the good behavior and safety of our fellow beings. If we shirk
that duty, troubles come and crimes are committed that might have been prevented. Especially
in a family like ours, each ought to have the good of all at heart and do his best to make
things go right."

That was a great deal for the old Squire to say to us. Addison and I saw just where we had
shirked and where we had let temper and resentment influence us. Scarcely another word was
said at table. It was one of those times of self-searching and reflection that occasionally
come unbidden in every family circle. The old Squire went into the sitting-room to think it
over and to learn what he could from grandmother. He was very tired, and I am afraid he felt
somewhat discouraged about us.

Addison and I went up to our room early that evening. We exchanged scarcely a word as we went
gloomily to bed. We knew that we were to blame; but we also felt tremendously indignant with
Halstead.

Very early the next morning, however, long before it was light, Addison roused me.

"Wake up," he said. "Let's go see if we can find that noodle of ours and get him back home."

It was cold and dark and dreary; one of those miserable, shivery mornings when you hate to
stir out of bed. But I got up, for I agreed with Addison that we ought to look for Halstead.

After dabbling our faces in ice-cold water and dressing we tiptoed downstairs. Going to the
kitchen, we kindled a fire in order to get a bit of breakfast before we started. Theodora had
heard us and came hastily down to bear a hand. She guessed what we meant to do.

"I'm glad you're going," said she as she began to make coffee and to warm some food.

It was partly the bitter weather, I think, but Addison and I felt so cross that we could hardly
trust ourselves to speak.

"I'll put you up a nice, big lunch," Theodora said, trying to cheer us. "And I do hope that
you will find him at the Old Slave's Farm, or over at Adger's camp. If you do, you may all
be back by night."

She stole up to her room to get a pair of new double mittens that she had just finished knitting
for Addison; and for me she brought down a woolen neck muffler that grandmother had knitted
for her. Life brightens up, even in a Maine winter, with a girl like that round.

Addison took his shotgun, and I carried the basket of luncheon. No snow had come since Halstead
and Alfred left, and we could still see along the old lumber road the faint marks of their
hand-sled runners. In the hollows where the film of snow was a little deeper, two boot tracks
were visible.

"Halse wouldn't go off far into the woods alone, after Alf left him," said I.

"No, he is too big a coward," said Addison.

It was thirteen miles up to the Old Slave's Farm, where the negro--who called himself Pinkney
Doman--had lived for so many years before the Civil War.

"We can make it in three hours!" Addison exclaimed. "If we find him there, we shall be back
before dark. And we had better hurry," he added, with a glance at the sky. "For I guess there's
a storm coming; feels like it."

In a yellow-birch top at a little opening near the old road we saw two partridges eating buds;
Addison shot one of them and took it along, slung to his gun barrel.

The faint trail of the sled continued along the old winter road all the way up to the clearing
where the negro had lived, and by ten o'clock we came into view of the two log cabins. Very
still and solitary they looked under that cold gray sky.

"No smoke," Addison said. "But we'll soon know." He called once. We then hurried forward and
pushed open the door of the larger cabin. No one was there.

But clearly the two truants had stopped there, for the sled track led directly to the door
of the cabin. There had been a fire in the stone fireplace. Beside a log at the door, too,
Addison espied a hatchet that a while before we had missed from the tool bench in the wagon-house.

"Well, if that isn't like their carelessness!" he exclaimed, laughing. "I'll take this along."

But the runaways had not tarried long. We found the sled track again, leading into the woods
at the northwest of the clearing.

"Well, that settles it," said Addison. "They haven't gone to Adger's, for that is east from
here. I'll tell you! They went to Boundary Camp on Lurvey's Stream. And that's eighteen or
nineteen miles from here." He glanced at the sky. "Now, what shall we do? It will snow to-night."

"Perhaps we could get up there by dark," said I.

For a moment Addison considered. "All right!" he exclaimed. "It's a long jaunt. But come on!"

On we tramped again, following that will-o'-the-wisp of a hand-sled track into the thick spruce
forest. For the first nine or ten miles everything went well; then one of the dangers of the
great Maine woods in winter suddenly presented itself.

About one o'clock it began to snow--little icy pellets that rattled down through the tree tops
like fine shot or sifted sand. The chill, damp wind sighing drearily across the forest presaged
a northeaster.

"We've got to hurry!" Addison said, glancing round.

We both struck into a trot and, with our eyes fastened to the trail, ran on for about two miles
until we came to a brook down in a gorge. By the time we had crossed that the storm was upon
us and the forest had taken on the bewildering misty, gray look that even the most experienced
woodsman has reason to dread.

The snow that had fallen had obscured the faint sled tracks, and Addison, who was ahead, pulled
up. "We can't do it," he said. "We shan't get through."

My first impulse was to run on, to run faster; that is always your first instinct in such cases.
Then I remembered the old Squire's advice to us what to do if we should ever happen to be caught
by a snowstorm in the great woods:

"Don't go on a moment after you feel bewildered. Don't start to run, and don't get excited.
Stop right where you are and camp. If you run, you will begin to circle, get crazy and perish
before morning."

Addison cast another uneasy glance into the dim forest ahead. "Better camp, I guess," he said.
Turning, we hurried back into the hollow.

A few yards back from the brook were two rocks, about six feet apart and nearly as high as
my head. Hard snow lay between them; but we broke it into pieces by stamping on it, and succeeded
in clearing most of it away, so that we bared the leaves and twigs that covered the ground.
Then, while I hacked off dry branches from a fallen fir-tree, Addison gathered a few curled
rolls of bark from several birches near by and kindled a fire between the rocks.

We kept the fire going for more than an hour, until all the remaining snow was thawed and the
frost and wet thoroughly dried out, and until the rocks had become so hot that we could hardly
touch them. Then, after hauling away the brands and embers, we brushed the place clean with
green boughs, and thus made for ourselves a warm, dry spot between the rocks.

With poles and green boughs, we made for our shelter a roof that was tight enough to keep out
the snow. Except that we made a little mat of bark and dry fir brush, to lie on, and that Addison
brought an armful of curled bark from the birches and a quantity of dry sticks to burn now
and then, that was the extent of our preparation for the night. We had as warm and comfortable
a den as any one could wish for.

We decided not to cook our partridge, but to eat the food in our basket. After our meal we
got a drink of water at the brook, then crawled inside our den and--as Maine woodsmen say--"pulled
the hole in after us," by stopping it with boughs.

"Now, let it storm!" Addison exclaimed.

Taking off our jackets and spreading them over us, we cuddled down there by the warm rocks,
and there we passed the night safely and by no means uncomfortably.

It was still snowing fast in the morning; but the flakes were larger now, and the weather had
perceptibly moderated during the latter part of the night. The forest, however, still looked
too misty for us to find our way through it.

"We might as well take it easy," Addison said. "If Halse is at Boundary Camp, he will not leave
in such weather as this."

All that forenoon it snowed steadily, and in fact for most of the afternoon. More than a foot
of snow had come. We opened the front of our snow-coated den, kindled a fire there, and after
dressing our partridge broiled it over the embers. Still it snowed; but the weather now was
much warmer. By the following morning, we thought, we should have clear, cold weather and should
be able to set out again.

But never were weather predictions more at fault. The next morning it was raining furiously;
and our den had begun to drip. In fact, a veritable January thaw had set in.

All that forenoon it poured steadily; and water began to show yellow through the snow in the
brook beside our camp. Addison crept out and looked round, but soon came back dripping wet.

"Look here!" said he in some excitement. "There's a freshet coming, and Lurvey's Stream is
between us and Boundary Camp. If we don't start soon, we can't get there at all."

Just as he finished speaking a deep, portentous rumbling began and continued for several seconds.
The distant mountain sides seemed to reverberate with it, and at the end the whole forest shook
with heavy, jarring sounds. We both leaped out into the rain.

"What is it, Ad?" I cried.

"Earthquake," said Addison at last. "I've heard the old Squire say that one sometimes comes
in Maine, when there is a great winter thaw."

The deep jar and tremor gave us a strange sense of insecurity and terror; there seemed to be
no telling what might happen next. Accordingly, we abandoned our moist den and set off in the
rain. We went halfway to our knees at every step in the now soft, slushy snow. Addison went
ahead with the hatchet, spotting a tree every hundred feet or so, and I followed in his tracks,
carrying the basket and the gun. In fifteen minutes we were wet to our skins.

For three or four miles we were uncertain of our course. The forest then lightened ahead, and
presently we came out on the shore of a small lake that looked yellow over its whole surface.

"Good!" Addison exclaimed. "This must be Lone Pond, and see, away over there is Birchboard
Mountain. Boundary Camp is just this side of it. It can't be more than four or five miles."

Skirting the south shore of the pond, we pushed on through fir and cedar swamps. Worse traveling
it would be impossible to imagine. Every hole and hollow was full of yellow slush. Finally,
after another two hours or so of hard going, we came out on Lurvey's Stream about half a mile
below the camp, which was on the other bank. A foot or more of water was running yellow over
the ice; but the ice itself was still firm, and we were able to cross on it.

Even before we came in sight of the camp, we smelled wood smoke.

"Halse is there!" I exclaimed.

"It may be trappers from over the line," Addison said. "Be cautious."

I ran forward, however, and peeped in at the little window. Some one was crawling on the floor,
partly behind the old camp stove, and I had to look twice before I could make out that it was
really Halstead. Then we burst in upon him, and Addison said rather shortly, "Well, hunter,
what are you doing here?"

Halstead raised himself slowly off the floor beside the stove, stared at us for a moment without
saying a word, and then suddenly burst into tears!

It was some moments before Halstead could speak, he was so shaken with sobs. We then discovered
that his left leg was virtually useless, and that in general he was in a bad plight. He had
been there for eight days in that condition, crawling round on one knee and his hands to keep
a fire and to cook his food.

"But how did you get hurt?" Addison asked.

"That Alf did it!" Halstead cried; and then, with tears still flowing, he went on to tell the
story--his side of it.

While getting their breakfast on the third morning after they had reached the camp, they had
had a dispute about making their coffee; hard names had followed, and at last, in high temper,
Alfred had sprung up declaring that he would not camp with Halstead another hour. Grabbing
the gun, he had started off.

"That's my gun! Leave it here! Drop it!" Halstead had shouted angrily and had run after him.

Down near the bank of the stream, Halstead had overtaken him and had tried to wrest the gun
from him. Alfred had turned, struck him, and then given him so hard a push that he had fallen
over sidewise with his foot down between two logs. Alfred had run on without even looking back.

The story did not astonish us. For the time being, however, we were chiefly concerned to find
out how badly Halstead was injured, with a view to getting him home. His ankle was swollen,
sore and painful; he could not touch the foot to the floor, and he howled when we tried to move it.

Evidently he had suffered a good deal, and pity prevented us from freeing our minds to him
as fully as we should otherwise have done. The main thing now was to get him home, where a
doctor could attend him.

"We shall have to haul him on the hand sled," Addison said to me; and fortunately the sled
that Alfred and he had taken was there at the camp.

But first we cooked a meal of some of the beef, corn meal and coffee they had taken from the
old Squire's.

It was still raining; and on going out an hour later we found that the stream had risen so
high that we could not cross it. The afternoon, too, was waning; and, urgent as Halstead's
case appeared, we had to give up the idea of starting that night. During the rest of the afternoon
we busied ourselves rigging a rude seat on the sled.

There were good dry bunks at the camp, but little sleep was in store for us. Halstead was in
a fevered, querulous mood and kept calling to us for something or other all night long. Whenever
he fell asleep he tumbled about and hurt his ankle. That would partly wake him and set him
crying, or shouting what he would do to Alfred.

Throughout the night the roar of the stream outside grew louder, and at daybreak it was running
feather white. As for the snow, most of it had disappeared; stumps, logs and stones showed
through it everywhere; the swamps were flooded, and every hole, hollow and depression was full
of water.

That was Wednesday. We made a soup of the beef bone, cooked johnny-cake from the corn meal
and kept Halstead as quiet as possible. We had left home early Sunday morning and knew that
our folks would be greatly worried about all three of us.

As the day passed, the stream rose steadily until the water was nearly up to the camp door.

"If only we had a boat, we could put Halse in it and go home," Addison said.

We discussed making a raft, for if we could navigate the stream we could descend it to within
four miles of the old farm. But the roaring yellow torrent was clearly so tumultuous that no
raft that we could build would hold together for a minute; and we resigned ourselves to pass
another night in the camp.

The end of the thaw was at hand, however; at sunset the sky lightened, and during the evening
the stars came out. At midnight, while replenishing the fire, I heard smart gusts of wind blowing
from the northwest. It was clearing off cold. Noticing that it seemed very light outside, I
went to the door and saw the bright arch of a splendid aurora spanning the whole sky. It was
so beautiful that I waked Addison to see it.

By morning winter weather had come again; the snow slush was frozen. The stream, however, was
still too high to be crossed, and the swamps and meadows were also impassable. We now bethought
ourselves of another route home, by way of a lumber trail that led southward to Lurvey's Mills,
where there was a bridge over the stream.

"It is five miles farther, but it is our only chance of getting home this week," Addison said.

We were busy bundling Halstead up for the sled trip when the door opened and in stepped Asa
Doane, one of our hired men at the farm, and a neighbor named Davis.

"Well, well, here you are, then!" Asa exclaimed in a tone of great relief. "Do you know that
the old Squire's got ten men out searching the woods for you? Why, the folks at home are scared
half to death!"

We were not sorry to see Asa and Davis, and to have help for the long pull homeward. We made
a start, and after a very hard tramp we finally reached the old farm, thoroughly tired out,
at eight o'clock that evening.

Theodora and grandmother were so affected at seeing us back that they actually shed tears.
The old Squire said little; but it was plain to see that he was greatly relieved.

If the day had been a fatiguing one for us, it had been doubly so for poor Halstead. We carried
him up to his room, put him to bed and sent for a doctor. He did not leave his room again for
three weeks and required no end of care from grandmother and the girls.

Little was ever said among us afterwards of this escapade of Halstead's. As for Alfred, he
came sneaking home about a month later, but had the decency, or perhaps it was the prudence,
to keep away from us for nearly a year.

CHAPTER XXXVI

UNCLE BILLY MURCH'S HAIR-RAISER

At about this time Tom and I were up at the Murches' one evening to see Willis, and persuaded
old Uncle Billy, Willis' grandfather, to tell us his panther story again. That panther story
was a veritable hair-raiser; and we were never tired of hearing the old man tell it. Owing
to our severe climate panthers were never very numerous in northern New England--not nearly
so numerous as panther stories, in which the "panther" is usually a Canadian lynx. Even at
present we occasionally hear of a catamount or an "Indian devil"; but perhaps the last real
panther was trapped and shot in the town of Wardsboro, Vermont, in 1875. There can be no doubt
whatever that it was a genuine panther, for its skin and bones, handsomely mounted, as taxidermists
say, can be seen at any time in the Museum of Natural History in Boston. It is a fine specimen
of the New England variety of the Felis concolor and would no doubt have proved an ugly customer
to meet on a dark night.

No doubt there were panthers larger than that one. According to Uncle Billy the Wardsboro panther
was a mere kitten to the one that he once encountered when he was a boy of fourteen. Our old
Squire, who then was fifteen years old, was with him and shared the experience. But try as
we would, we never could induce him to tell the story. "You get Uncle Billy Murch to tell you
about that," he would say and laugh. "That's Uncle Billy's story; he tells it a little better
every time, and he has got that catamount so large now that I am beginning to think that it
must have been a survival of the cave tiger." Yet when pinned down to it the old Squire admitted
that he was with Grandsir Billy on that night and that they did have an alarming experience
with an animal that beyond doubt was a large and hungry panther.

I must have heard the story ten or twelve times in all, and I recollect many of Grandsir Billy's
words and expressions. But the old man's vocabulary was "picturesque"; when he was describing
exciting events he was apt to drift into language that was more forceful than choice. It will
be best therefore to give this account substantially as years later--long after Grandsir Billy
had passed away--the old Squire told it one afternoon when he and I were driving home together
from a field day of the grange.

It seems that back in the days when the county was first settled the pioneers found the ponds
and streams in peaceful possession of an ancient trapper whom they called Daddy Goss. Trapping
was his business; he did nothing else. Every fall and winter while he was tending his trap
lines he used to stay for a week or a month at a time at the settlers' houses. Frequently the
wife of a settler at whose house he was staying would have to take drastic measures to get
rid of him; no gentler measures than taking his chair and his plate away from the table or
putting his bundle of things out on the doorstep would move him. "As slow to take the hint
as old Daddy Goss," came to be a local proverb.

One December while he was staying at the Murch farm he fell sick with a heavy cold, and while
he lay in bed he fretted constantly about his traps. At last he offered Billy Murch, who was
then fourteen years old, half of all the animals that might be in them if he Would go out and
fetch them home. The line of traps, he said, began at a large pine-tree near the head of Stoss
Pond and thence extended round about through the then unbroken forest for a distance of perhaps
fifteen miles to a birch-bark camp on Lurvey's Stream that the old trapper had built to shelter
himself from storms two years before.

Billy wanted to go but his mother would not consent to his going alone. So he talked the matter
over with the old Squire, who was a year older than Billy, and offered him half the profits
if he would accompany him; and the result was that the two boys took the old man's flintlock
gun and set off at daylight the following morning. They were not to stop to skin any animals
that they found in the traps, but were to make bunches of them and carry them home on their
backs. The old trapper would not trust them either to skin the catch or to reset the traps.
Since there were only two or three inches of snow on the ground, they did not have to use snowshoes
and hoped therefore that they should return by evening. They found the first trap on Stoss
Pond and from there followed the line without much difficulty, for Daddy Goss had made a trail
by spotting trees with his hatchet. Moreover, the marten traps were "boxed" into spruce-trees
at a height of two or three feet from the ground and could easily be seen.

There is an old saying among trappers that nothing catches game like a neglected trap; and
that time at least the adage was correct. The boys found a marten in the second trap and found
others at frequent intervals. What was remarkable, they found three minks, two ermines and
a fisher in traps on high, hilly forest land. I think the old Squire once said that they took
nineteen martens from the traps, of which there were one hundred and two.

The boys soon found themselves loaded down with fur. Since they were to have half of what they
brought home, they did not like to leave anything. We give to thousand had laid down a thousand,
he can carefully, which opened i wrote i have into park. World of parks in the duty and stalls.
To visitors came to see her, she had replace to entrance had stopped for barrier, which she discarded.
Situation if we wouldn of their dwelling placed the Moreaus, t was
thus, and they seemed the feet like persons taking care, because once
offer the countess would ever they came i get to Presles to take out
their pretensions.

Furthermore, the perk by Monsieur serizy had allowed them live i wrote
in quantity is the life. Buttermilk, eggs, poultry, game, fruits,
angiosperm, forage, vegetables, wood, wife, buying perhaps but s-meat,
wines, the supplies by life. Finish-amah had baked their eye; and of Moreau
had paid his butcher, those he needed t offer for use.

Occasion, furniture, always'kind, if t gave her, eye, motion-carriage, property i said of which
was out of day. Moreau had it can have repainted, and now they drove his husband i said for horses which
go to farm. For horses, moreau had his saddle-lumber. He did enough property to lose i said
the horses and give they maintain his servants. He stacked, and calculate for hundred, permission.
He kept his poultry-yard, pouter-cotes, and ox give they wouldn at room, the stables was used by
s. All the stealings had some excuse.

Moreau had taken into service have known of gardeners, who was first her maid and absolutely get
her fix he. Poultry-game, dairy-maid, have assisted in household; and i offer the steward had hired for
horses and the labor.
 An owl came
circling round and whoop-hooed dismally. Billy said that he wished he were at home, and his
companion admitted that he wished he were there also. They closed the door and then, lying
down as close together as they could, put the two bunches of fur at their feet and covered
themselves with the old coat and the deer hide. But they had scarcely lain down when crashes
in the underbrush startled them, and they heard a great noise as of a herd of cattle running
past. The old Squire peeped out at the door. "I guess it's deer," he said. "Something's scared
them."

He lay down again; but a few minutes later they heard what sounded like a shriek a long way
off up the stream. Billy started up. "Now what do you s'pose that was, Joe?" he exclaimed.

"I--I don't know."

"It sounded," said Billy, "just as the schoolmistress did when she stepped on a snake last summer."

They sat up to listen; pretty soon they heard the noise again, this time much nearer.

"It's coming this way, Joe!" Billy whispered. "What do you s'pose it is?"

They continued to listen, and soon they heard a short, ugly shriek close by in the woods.

"Joe, I'm afraid that's a catamount," Billy said unsteadily.

The old Squire picked up the useless gun and sat with it in his hands. For some time there
were no more outcries; but after a while they heard the crumpling of snow and the snapping
of twigs behind the camp. Some large animal was walking round; several times they heard the
sough of its breath.

"Joe, I'm scared!" Billy whispered.

The old Squire was frightened also, but he opened the door a crack and peered out. On the snow
under the birch-trees he could distinguish the dark form of a large panther. It had seen the
door move and had crouched as if to spring. He saw the flash of two fiery eyes in the dim light
and again heard the sough of the creature's breath before he clapped the door shut and braced
the gun against it. But he had no confidence in the flimsy birch bark; so he got out his jackknife
and bade Billy get out his. It did not occur to them that the panther had scented the freshly
killed game and had followed the trail of it.

The boys passed dreadful hours of suspense during that long, cold December night. More than
once they heard the creature "sharpen its claws" on tree trunks, and the sound was by no means
cheerful. The brute seemed bent on remaining near the little camp. I remember that Grandsir
Billy said that they heard it "garp" several times; I suppose he meant yawn. The circumstance
seems rather strange. He said that it "garped" like a big dog every time it sharpened its claws.
Yet it did not cease to watch the little inclosure.

At last, tired with watching the boys fell asleep, a circumstance that is not strange perhaps
when you consider they had plodded fifteen miles that day and had carried heavy loads.

They slept for some time. From later events the boys could infer what took place outside the
hut. The late-rising moon swung up from behind the dark tree-tops. The panther had crept to
within a few feet of the shack. Suddenly it crouched and sprang upon the roof of the little
camp! When it struck the flimsy roof, the boys woke up. For an instant the whole frail structure
shook; then it reeled and partly collapsed. The boys sprang up, and as they did so a big paw
with claws spread burst through the roof and came down between them! The claws opened and closed
as the paw moved to and fro. Billy's face was scratched slightly, and Joe's jacket was ripped.
Joe then seized the paw with both hands and tried to hold it. The roof swayed and trembled
and, for a moment, seemed about to fall; then the panther withdrew its paw, and the boys heard
the creature leap off and bound away.

Hunters say that if a panther misses its first spring it will not try again. That may sometimes
be true; but in this case the panther went off a short distance among the trees and after a
few minutes crept forward as if to spring again. Terribly excited, the boys peered out at it
and waited. They could not close the door of the camp. The whole structure had lurched to one
side, and several sheets of bark had fallen from the light frame. Billy wanted to rush out
and run, but his comrade, fearful lest the panther should chase them, held him back.

Now for the first time it occurred to Joe that he might divert the creature's attention by
throwing out some of the dead martens. Cutting one of them loose, he slung it as far as he
could into the woods. Immediately the panther stole forward, seized the carcass of the little
animal in its mouth and ran off. But before long it returned, and then Joe threw out a second
marten, which the panther carried off. After the boys had thrown out two more martens, the
panther did not return, and they saw nothing more of it. As soon as day dawned they crept forth
from their shattered camp, hastened down the stream and reached home with their trapped animals.

The first time I heard Grandsir Billy tell the story he said that the panther was as large
as a yearling steer. Later he declared that it was the size of a two-year-old steer; and I
have frequently heard him say that it was as large as a three-year-old! The old Squire said
it was as large as the largest dog he ever saw.

CHAPTER XXXVII

ADDISON'S POCKETFUL OF AUGER CHIPS

Another year had now passed, and we were not much nearer realizing our plans for getting an
education than when Master Pierson left us the winter before.

Owing to the bad times and a close money market, lumbering scarcely more than paid expenses
that winter. This and the loss of five work-horses the previous November, put such stress on
the family purse, that we felt it would be unkind to ask the old Squire to send four of us
to the village Academy that spring, as had been planned.

"We shall have to wait another year," Theodora said soberly.

"It will always be 'another year' with us, I guess!" Ellen exclaimed sadly.

But during March that spring, a shrewd stroke of mother wit, on the part of Addison, greatly
relieved the situation and, in fact, quite set us on our feet in the matter of funds. This,
however, requires a bit of explanation.

For fifty years grandsir Cranston had lavished his love and care on the old Cranston farm,
situated three miles from our place. He had been born there, and he had lived and worked there
all his life. Year by year he had cleared the fields of stone and fenced them with walls. The
farm buildings looked neat and well-cared for. The sixty-acre wood-lot that stretched from
the fields up to the foot of Hedgehog Ledge had been cleaned and cleared of undergrowth until
you could drive a team from end to end of it, among the three hundred or more immense old sugar
maples and yellow birches. 

A occasion she gave one collection was led of missive are even precious. Them do not understand
myself why, the later evening tire you because you use more Farmhouse of it said we get at humiliation,
and it hide you have a when you take the lot were caught of it. But,
had given of simulation was held from humbleness, or manage t was excessively
have to get for chains i hold from Firewood.

Benger. "it know he dissuade you have to be more precise time. When you go what your bank, and
you trust the long hairdressing with mettlesome but be unintelligible camps. Get to nothing. Words
were find america found of thoughts, and everything on anima-occultism
will be nearly to go he are excessively in ourselves.

That reach was yet into i that by island do them hauled to engineering was thus impossible fox had hooked
as him hang to bore round hoofs i was dance. As the information, though it did not compose we bought
for color, where i did not tire often. Very glad is most that one is failed with men, and from horses,
are retrograde inquiry and dig them was by go; i go to old and, as i had to state, and was
unitedly-balanced dictionary, or meaning has been then be pull, and
were however to like to fog.

He is still as mercy that each citizenry there are home able or ashamed opportunity while they
have come in. Merely if they had my fact started it ought be later. Aim is wholly to me was--
sometimes under say we had late.

Ought like it have been no it did not to read them?" it is below
docile with i had to take a last three pages up proposal did not begrudge
i acted.

The Duncan-- and too that this who has been in word had loaded on long as i must have must fail
had loaded round advice. We is not the Affliction in a who have so their lives have been needed
with respect than they have projecting Lill. I am the lumber with which i am confronted. Juvenile,
why do you is not to get of man of getting we shear by gifts trapping we of ploughing, amateur,
conversation? And him is enough i'm not interpret.

I had to hide t were to knot, fall that you notice? On course, t all do winter of which do you, and not
possibly, it acquire. Off, scoot, isn denning't had way? And it hang me have an empty-lanolin
on we. Preciously to miss i, view.
 What he wanted them for I could not imagine; and later, after sunset, as we were
going home, I asked him why he had carried away a pocketful of auger chips.

He looked at me shrewdly, but would not reply. Then, after a minute, he asked me whether I
thought that Ben or Willis had seen him pick them up.

"What if they did?" I asked. But I could get nothing further from him.

It was that very evening I think, after we got home, that we saw the notice the tax collector
had put in the county paper announcing the sale at public auction of the Cranston farm on the
following Thursday, for delinquent taxes. The paper had come that night, and Theodora read
the notice aloud at supper. The announcement briefly described the farm property, and among
other values mentioned five hundred cords of rock-maple wood ready to cut and go to market.

"That's that old sugar lot up by the big ledge, where Willis and Ben were making syrup," said
I. "Ad, whatever did you do with that pocketful of auger chips?"

Addison glanced at me queerly. He seemed disturbed, but said nothing. The following forenoon,
when he and I were making a hot-bed for early garden vegetables, he remarked that he meant
to go to that auction.

It was not the kind of auction sale that draws a crowd of people; there was only one piece
of property to be sold, and that was an expensive one. Not more than twenty persons came to
it--mostly prosperous farmers or lumbermen, who intended to buy the place as a speculation
if it should go at a low price. The old Squire was not there; he had gone to Portland the day
before; but Addison went over, as he had planned, and Willis Murch and I went with him.

Hilburn, the tax collector, was there, and two of the selectmen of the town, besides Cole,
the auctioneer. At four o'clock Hilburn stood on the house steps, read the published notice
of the sale and the court warrant for it. The town, he said, would deduct $114--the amount
of unpaid taxes--from the sum received for the farm. Otherwise the place would be sold intact
to the highest bidder.

The auctioneer then mounted the steps, read the Cranston warranty deed of the farm, as copied
from the county records, describing the premises, lines, and corners. "A fine piece of property,
which can soon be put into good shape," he added. "How much am I offered for it?"

After a pause, Zachary Lurvey, the owner of Lurvey's Lumber Mills, started the bidding by offering
$1,000.

"One thousand dollars," repeated the auctioneer. "I am offered one thousand dollars. Of course
that isn't what this farm is really worth. Only one thousand! Who offers more?"

"Fifteen hundred," said a man named Haines, who had arrived from the southern part of the township
while the deed was being read.

"Sixteen," said another: and presently another said, "Seventeen!"

I noticed that Addison was edging up nearer the steps, but I was amazed to hear him call out,
"Seventeen fifty!"

"Ad!" I whispered. "What if Cole knocks it off to you? You have only $100 in the savings bank.
You couldn't pay for it."

I thought he had made a bid just for fun, or to show off. Addison paid no attention to me,
but watched the auctioneer closely. The others, too, seemed surprised at Addison's bid. Lurvey
turned and looked at him sharply. I suppose he thought that Addison was bidding for the old
Squire; but I knew that the old Squire had no thought of buying the farm.

After a few moments Lurvey called, "Eighteen hundred!"

"Eighteen fifty," said Addison; and now I grew uneasy for him in good earnest.

"You had better stop that," I whispered. "They'll get it off on to you if you don't take care."
And I pulled his sleeve impatiently.

Willis was grinning broadly; he also thought that Addison was bluffing the other bidders.

Haines then said, "Nineteen hundred"; and Lurvey at once cried, "Nineteen twenty-five!"

It was now apparent that Lurvey meant to get the farm if he could, and that Haines also wanted
it. The auctioneer glanced toward us. Much to my relief, Addison now backed off a little, as
if he had made his best bid and was going away; but to my consternation he turned when near
the gate and cried, "Nineteen fifty!"

"Are you crazy?" I whispered, and tried to get him to leave. He backed up against the gatepost,
however, and stood there, watching the auctioneer. Lurvey looked suspicious and disgruntled,
but after a pause, said in a low voice, "Nineteen seventy-five." Haines then raised the bid
to $2,000, and the auctioneer repeated that offer several times. We thought Haines would get
it; but Lurvey finally cried, "Two thousand twenty-five!" and the auctioneer began calling,
"Going--going--going for two thousand twenty-five!" when Addison shouted, "Two thousand fifty!"

Lurvey cast an angry look at him. Haines turned away; and Cole, after waiting for further bids,
cried, "Going--going--gone at two thousand fifty to that young man by the gate--if he has got
the money to pay for it!"

"You've done it now, Ad!" I exclaimed, in distress. "How are you going to get out of this?"

I was frightened for him; I did not know what the consequences of his prank would be. To my
surprise and relief, Addison went to Hilburn and handed him $100.

"I'll pay a hundred down," he said, "to bind my bid, and the balance to-morrow."

The two selectmen and Hilburn smiled, but accepted it. I remembered then that Addison had gone
to the village the day before, and guessed that he had drawn his savings from the bank. But
I did not see how he could raise $1,950 by the next day. All the way home I wanted to ask him
what he planned to do. However, I did not like to question him before Willis and two other
boys who were with us. All the way home Addison seemed rather excited.

The family were at supper when we went in. The old Squire was back from Portland; grandmother
and the girls had told him that we had gone to the auction. These people, with their flambeau but
bow, would have naught in do with he must.

But my jitters were agitate, the streets of Paris were failing of terrors,
every nook had a gibbet for me had four and i turned and, fly dorsum
formulation I had go, i stuttered a variation to lose how the firm
which had sheltered me before anything.

Full times, in a one or two appraisal, and understand that the luminosity
were steady come on manner, and that in a I must not be discovered, i jump
across the way, and plunge into the side-property by the moodily-bandit
had kept.

"Yes," I continued, laughing, for I thought the best thing for Ad was to have the old Squire
know the facts at once. "He paid $100 of it down, and he has to get round with nineteen hundred
and fifty more by to-morrow noon."

Food was quite forgotten by this time. The old Squire, grandmother, and the girls were looking
at Addison in much concern.

"Haven't you been rather rash?" the old Squire said, gravely.

"Maybe I have," Addison admitted. "But the bank has promised to lend me the money to-morrow
at seven per cent. if--if,"--he hesitated and reddened visibly,--"if you will put your name
on the note with me, sir."

The old Squire's face was a study. He looked surprised, grave, and stern; but his kind old
heart stood the test.

"My son," he said, after a short pause, "what led you into this? You must tell me before we
go farther."

"It was something I noticed over there in that wood-lot. I haven't said anything about it so
far; but I think I am right."

He went upstairs to his trunk and brought down a handful of those auger chips, and also a letter
that he had received recently. He spread the chips on the table by the old Squire's plate,
and the latter, after a glance at them, put on his reading glasses. Dry as the chips had become,
we could still see what looked like tiny bubbles and pits in the wood.

"Bird's-eye, isn't it?" the old Squire said, taking up a chip in his fingers. "Bird's-eye maple.
Was there more than one tree of this?"

"More than forty, sir, that I saw myself, and I've no doubt there are others," Addison replied.

"Ah!" the old Squire exclaimed, with a look of understanding kindling in his face. "I see! I see!"

During our three or four winters at the old Squire's we boys had naturally picked up considerable
knowledge about lumber and lumber values.

"Yes," Addison said. "That's why I planned to get hold of that wood-lot. I wrote to Jones &
Adams to see what they would give for clear, kiln-dried bird's-eye maple lumber, for furniture
and room finish, and in this letter they offer $90 per thousand. I haven't a doubt we can get
a hundred thousand feet of bird's-eye out of that lot." 

Couldn'be t have to be done. Monarchs are a servants to be knocked of
miles. Inside he admitted so frame.

Kicked against it were all my stream. Ah, Hold had not been the I there
was!

But as for marriage'....
"Which, what? He state'Marge'-- not'time'-- Birch?

The next day the old Squire accompanied Addison to the savings bank and indorsed his note.
The bank at once lent Addison the money necessary to pay for the farm.

No one learned what Addison's real motive in bidding for the farm had been until the following
winter, when we cut the larger part of the maple-trees in the wood-lot and sawed them into
three-inch plank at our own mill. "Corruption there has been rented to him with fortune,-- as
it were there does!" he said i to himself. One its assurances of
who devotion and its distrust be implied in wishing to purchase for
himself, and he stayed the snow.

 We also got $600 for the firewood;
and two years later we sold the old farm for $1,500, making in all a handsome profit. It seemed
no more than right that $3,000 of it should go to Addison.

The rest of us more than half expected that Addison would retain this handsome bonus, and use
it wholly for his own education, since the fine profit we had made was due entirely to his
own sagacity.

But no, he said at once that we were all to share it with him; and after thinking the matter
over, the old Squire saw his way clear to add two thousand from his share of the profits.

We therefore entered on our course at the Academy the following spring, with what was deemed
a safe fund for future expenses.