There is absolutely nothing new in the task idea. Each one of us will remember that in his
own case this idea was applied with good results in his school-boy days. No efficient teacher
would think of giving a class of students an indefinite lesson to learn. Each day a definite,
clear-cut task is set by the teacher before each scholar, stating that he must learn just so
much of the subject; and it is only by this means that proper, systematic progress can be made
by the students. The average boy would go very slowly if, instead of being given a task, he
were told to do as much as he could. All of us are grown-up children, and it is equally true
that the average workman will work with the greatest satisfaction, both to himself and to his
employer, when he is given each day a definite task which he is to perform in a given time,
and which constitutes a proper day's work for a good workman. This furnishes the workman with
a clear-cut standard, by which he can throughout the day measure his own progress, and the
accomplishment of which affords him the greatest satisfaction.

The writer has described in other papers a series of experiments made upon workmen, which have
resulted in demonstrating the fact that it is impossible, through any long period of time,
to get work-men to work much harder than the average men around them, unless they are assured
a large and a permanent increase in their pay. This series of experiments, however, also proved
that plenty of workmen can be found who are willing to work at their best speed, provided they
are given this liberal increase in wages. The workman must, however, be fully assured that
this increase beyond the average is to be permanent. Our experiments have shown that the exact
percentage of increase required to make a workman work at his highest speed depends upon the
kind of work which the man is doing.

It is absolutely necessary, then, when workmen are daily given a task which calls for a high
rate of speed on their part, that they should also be insured the necessary high rate of pay
whenever they are successful. This involves not only fixing for each man his daily task, but
also paying him a large bonus, or premium, each time that he succeeds in doing his task in
the given time. It is difficult to appreciate in full measure the help which the proper use
of these two elements is to the workman in elevating him to the highest standard of efficiency
and speed in his trade, and then keeping him there, unless one has seen first the old plan
and afterward the new tried upon the same man. And in fact until one has seen similar accurate
experiments made upon various grades of workmen engaged in doing widely different types of
work. The remarkable and almost uniformly good results from the correct application of the
task and the bonus must be seen to be appreciated.

These two elements, the task and the bonus (which, as has been pointed out in previous papers,
can be applied in several ways), constitute two of the most important elements of the mechanism
of scientific management. They are especially important from the fact that they are, as it
were, a climax, demanding before they can be used almost all of the other elements of the mechanism;
such as a planning department, accurate time study, standardization of methods and implements,
a routing system, the training of functional foremen or teachers, and in many cases instruction
cards slide-rules, etc. (Referred to later in rather more detail on page 129.)

The necessity for systematically teaching workmen how to work to the best advantage has been
several times referred to. It seems desirable, therefore, to explain in rather more detail
how this teaching is done. In the case of a machine-shop which is managed under the modern
system, detailed written instructions are the best way of doing each piece of work are prepared
in advance, by men in the planning department. These instructions represent the combined work
of several men in the planning room, each of whom has his own specialty, or function. One of
them, for instance, is a specialist on the proper speeds and cutting tools to be used. He uses
the slide-rules which have been above described as an aid, to guide him in obtaining proper
speeds, etc. Another man analyzes the best and quickest motions to be made by the workman in
setting the work up in the machine and removing it, etc. Still a third, through the time-study
records which have been accumulated, makes out a timetable giving the proper speed for doing
each element of the work. The directions of all of these men, however, are written on a single
instruction card, or sheet.

These men of necessity spend most of their time in the planning department, because they must
be close to the records and data which they continually use in their work, and because this
work requires the use of a desk and freedom from interruption. Human nature is such, however,
that many of the workmen, if left to themselves, would pay but little attention to their written
instructions. It is necessary, therefore, to provide teachers (called functional foremen) to
see that the workmen both understand and carry out these written instructions.

Under functional management, the old-fashioned single foreman is superseded by eight different
men, each one of whom has his own special duties, and these men, acting as the agents for the
planning department (see paragraph 234 to 245 of the paper entitled "Shop Management"), are
the expert teachers, who are at all times in the shop, helping, and directing the workmen.
Being each one chosen for his knowledge and personal skill in his specialty, they are able
not only to tell the workman what he should do, but in case of necessity they do the work themselves
in the presence of the workman, so as to show him not only the best but also the quickest methods.

One of these teachers (called the inspector) sees to it that he understands the drawings and
instructions for doing the work. He teaches him how to do work of the right quality; how to
make it fine and exact where it should be fine, and rough and quick where accuracy is not required,--the
one being just as important for success as the other. The second teacher (the gang boss) shows
him how to set up the job in his machine, and teaches him to make all of his personal motions
in the quickest and best way. The third (the speed boss) sees that the machine is run at the
best speed and that the proper tool is used in the particular way which will enable the machine
to finish its product in the shortest possible time. In addition to the assistance given by
these teachers, the workman receives orders and help from four other men; from the "repair
boss" as to the adjustment, cleanliness, and general care of his machine, belting, etc.; from
the "time clerk," as to everything relating to his pay and to proper written reports and returns;
from the "route clerk," as to the order in which he does his work and as to the movement of
the work from one part of the shop to another; and, in case a workman gets into any trouble
with any of his various bosses, the "disciplinarian" interviews him.

It must be understood, of course, that all workmen engaged on the same kind of work do not
require the same amount of individual teaching and attention from the functional foremen. The
men who are new at a given operation naturally require far more teaching and watching than
those who have been a long time at the same kind of jobs.

Now, when through all of this teaching and this minute instruction the work is apparently made
so smooth and easy for the workman, the first impression is that this all tends to make him
a mere automaton, a wooden man. As the workmen frequently say when they first come under this
system, "Why, I am not allowed to think or move without some one interfering or doing it for
me!" The same criticism and objection, however, can be raised against all other modern subdivision
of labor. It does not follow, for example, that the modern surgeon is any more narrow or wooden
a man than the early settler of this country. The frontiersman, however, had to be not only
a surgeon, but also an architect, house-builder, lumberman, farmer, soldier, and doctor, and
he had to settle his law cases with a gun. You would hardly say that the life of the modern
surgeon is any more narrowing, or that he is more of a wooden man than the frontiersman. The
many problems to be met and solved by the surgeon are just as intricate and difficult and as
developing and broadening in their way as were those of the frontiersman.

And it should be remembered that the training of the surgeon has been almost identical in type
with the teaching and training which is given to the workman under scientific management. The
surgeon, all through his early years, is under the closest supervision of more experienced
men, who show him in the minutest way how each element of his work is best done. They provide
him with the finest implements, each one of which has been the subject of special study and
development, and then insist upon his using each of these implements in the very best way.
AR of this teaching, however, in no way narrows him. On the contrary he is quickly given the
very best knowledge of his predecessors; and, provided (as he is, right from the start) with
standard implements and methods which represent the best knowledge of the world up to date,
he is able to use his own originality and ingenuity to make real additions to the world's knowledge,
instead of reinventing things which are old. In a similar way the workman who is cooperating
with his many teachers under scientific management has an opportunity to develop which is at
least as good as and generally better than that which he had when the whole problem was "up
to him" and he did his work entirely unaided.

If it were true that the workman would develop into a larger and finer man without all of this
teaching, and without the help of the laws which have been formulated for doing his particular
job, then it would follow that the young man who now comes to college to have the help of a
teacher in mathematics, physics, chemistry, Latin, Greek, etc., would do better to study these
things unaided and by himself. The only difference in the two cases is that students come to
their teachers, while from the nature of the work done by the mechanic under scientific management,
the teachers must go to him. What really happens is that, with the aid of the science which
is invariably developed, and through the instructions from his teachers, each workman of a
given intellectual capacity is enabled to do a much higher, more interesting, and finally more
developing and more profitable kind of work than he was before able to do. The laborer who
before was unable to do anything beyond, perhaps, shoveling and wheeling dirt from place to
place, or carrying the work from one part of the shop to another, is in many cases taught to
do the more elementary machinist's work, accompanied by the agreeable surroundings and the
interesting variety and higher wages which go with the machinist's trade. The cheap machinist
or helper, who before was able to run perhaps merely a drill press, is taught to do the more
intricate and higher priced lathe and planer work, while the highly skilled and more intelligent
machinists become functional foremen and teachers. And so on, right up the line.

It may seem that with scientific management there is not the same incentive for the workman
to use his ingenuity in devising new and better methods of doing the work, as well as in improving
his implements, that there is with the old type of management. It is true that with scientific
management the workman is not allowed to use whatever implements and methods he sees fit in
the daily practice of his work. Every encouragement, however, should be given him to suggest
improvements, both in methods and in implements. And whenever a workman proposes an improvement,
it should be the policy of the management to make a careful analysis of the new method, and
if necessary conduct a series of experiments to determine accurately the relative merit of
the new suggestion and of the old standard. And whenever the new method is found to be markedly
superior to the old, it should be adopted as the standard for the whole establishment. The
workman should be given the full credit for the improvement, and should be paid a cash premium
as a reward for his ingenuity. In this way the true initiative of the workmen is better attained
under scientific management than under the old individual plan.

The history of the development of scientific, management up to date, however, calls for a word
of warning. The mechanism of management must not be mistaken for its essence, or underlying
philosophy. Precisely the same mechanism will in one case produce disastrous results and in
another the most beneficent. The same mechanism which will produce the finest results when
made to serve the underlying principles of scientific management, will lead to failure and
disaster if accompanied by the wrong spirit in those who are using it. Hundreds of people have
already mistaken the mechanism of this system for its essence. Messrs. Gantt, Barth and the
writer have presented papers to, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on the subject
of scientific management. In these papers the mechanism which is used has been described at
some length. As elements of this mechanism may be cited:

Time study, with the implements and methods for properly making it.

Functional or divided foremanship and its superiority to the old-fashioned single foreman.

The standardization of all tools and implements used in the trades, and also of the acts or
movements of workmen for each class of work.

The desirability of a planning room or department.

The "exception principle" in management.

The use of slide-rules and similar timesaving implements.

Instruction cards for the workman.

The task idea in management, accompanied by a large bonus for the successful performance of
the task.

The "differential rate."

Mnemonic systems for classifying manufactured products as well as implements used in manufacturing.

A routing system.

Modern cost system, etc., etc.

These are, however, merely the elements or details of the mechanism of management. Scientific
management, in its essence, consists of a certain philosophy, which results, as before stated,
in a combination of the four great underlying principles of management:

First. The development of a true science. Second, The scientific selection of the workman.
Third. His scientific education and development. Fourth. Intimate friendly cooperation between
the management and the men.

When, however the elements of this mechanism, such as time study, functional foremanship etc.,
are used without being accompanied by the true philosophy of management, the results are in
many cases disastrous. And, unfortunately, even when men who are thoroughly in sympathy with
the principles of scientific management undertake to change too rapidly from the old type to
the new, without heeding the warnings of those who have had years of experience in making this
change, they frequently meet with serious troubles, and sometimes with strikes, followed by
failure.

The writer, in his paper on "Shop Management," has called especial attention to the risks which
managers run in attempting to change rapidly from the old to the new management. in many cases,
however, this warning has not been heeded. The physical changes which are needed, the actual
time study which has to be made, the standardization of all implements connected with the work,
the necessity for individually studying each machine and placing it in perfect order, all take
time, but the faster these elements of the work are studied and improved, the better for the
undertaking. On the other hand, the really great problem involved in a change from the management
of "initiative and incentive" to scientific management consists in a complete revolution in
the mental attitude and the habits of all of those engaged in the management, as well of the
workmen. And this change can be brought about only gradually and through the presentation of
many object-lessons to the workman, which, together with the teaching which he receives, thoroughly
convince him of the superiority of the new over the old way of doing the work. This change
in the mental attitude of the workman imperatively demands time. It is impossible to hurry
it beyond a certain speed. The writer has over and over again warned those who contemplated
making this change that it was a matter, even in a simple establishment, of from two to three
years, and that in some cases it requires from four to five years.

The first few changes which affect the workmen should be made exceedingly slowly, and only
one workman at a time should be dealt with at the start. Until this single man has been thoroughly
convinced that a great gain has come to him from the new method, no further change should be
made. Then one man after another should be tactfully changed over. After passing the point
at which from one.-fourth to one-third of the men in the employ of the company have been changed
from the old to the new, very rapid progress can be made, because at about this time there
is, generally, a complete revolution in the public opinion of the whole establishment and practically
all of the workmen who are working under the old system become desirous to share in the benefits
which they see have been received by those working under the new plan.

Inasmuch as the writer has personally retired from the business of introducing this system
of management (that is, from all work done in return for any money compensation), he does not
hesitate again to emphasize the fact that those companies are indeed fortunate who can secure
the services of experts who have had the necessary practical experience in introducing scientific
management, and who have made a special study of its principles. It is not enough that a man
should have been a manager in an establishment which is run under the new principles. The man
who undertakes to direct the steps to be taken in changing from the old to the new (particularly
in any establishment doing elaborate work) must have had personal experience in overcoming
the especial difficulties which are always met with, and which are peculiar to this period
of transition. It is for this reason that the writer expects to devote the rest of his life
chiefly to trying to help those who wish to take up this work as their profession, and to advising
the managers and owners of companies in general as to the steps which they should take in making
this change.

As a warning to those who contemplate adopting scientific management, the following instance
is given. Several men who lacked the extended experience which is required to change without
danger of strikes, or without interference with the success of the business, from the management
of "initiative and incentive" to scientific management, attempted rapidly to increase the output
in quite an elaborate establishment, employing between three thousand and four thousand men.
Those who undertook to make this change were men of unusual ability, and were at the same time
enthusiasts and I think had the interests of the workmen truly at heart. They were, however,
warned by the writer, before starting, that they must go exceedingly slowly, and that the work
of making the change in this establishment could not be done in less than from three to five
years. This warning they entirely disregarded. They evidently believed that by using much of
the mechanism of scientific management, in combination with the principles of the management
of "initiative and incentive," instead of with these principles of scientific management, that
they could do, in a year or two, what had been proved in the past to require at least double
this time. The knowledge obtained from accurate time study, for example, is a powerful implement,
and can be used, in one case to promote harmony between the workmen and the management, by
gradually educating, training, and leading the workmen into new and better methods of doing
the work, or, in the other case, it may be used more or less as a club to drive the workmen
into doing a larger day's work for approximately the same pay that they received in the past.
Unfortunately the men who had charge of this work did not take the time and the trouble required
to train functional foremen, or teachers, who were fitted gradually to lead and educate the
workmen. They attempted, through the old-style foreman, armed with his new weapon (accurate
time study), to drive the workmen, against their wishes, and without much increase in pay,
to work much harder, instead of gradually teaching and leading them toward new methods, and
convincing them through object-lessons that task management means for them somewhat harder
work, but also far greater prosperity. The result of all this disregard of fundamental principles
was a series of strikes, followed by the down-fall of the men who attempted to make the change,
and by a return to conditions throughout the establishment far worse than those which existed
before the effort was made.

This instance is cited as an object-lesson of the futility of using the mechanism of the new
management while leaving out its essence, and also of trying to shorten a necessarily long
operation in entire disregard of past experience. It should be emphasized that the men who
undertook this work were both able and earnest, and that failure was not due to lack of ability
on their part, but to their undertaking to do the impossible. These particular men will not
again make a similar mistake, and it is hoped that their experience may act as a warning to others.

In this connection, however, it is proper to again state that during the thirty years that
we have been engaged in introducing scientific management there has not been a single strike
from those who were working in accordance with its principles, even during the critical period
when the change was being made from the old to the new. If proper methods are used by men who
have had experience in this work, there is absolutely no danger from strikes or other troubles.

The writer would again insist that in no case should the managers of an establishment ', the
work of which is elaborate, undertake to change from the old to the new type unless the directors
of the company fully understand and believe in the fundamental principles of scientific management
and unless they appreciate all that is involved in making this change, particularly the time
required, and unless they want scientific management greatly.

Doubtless some of those who are especially interested in working men will complain because
under scientific management the workman, when he is shown how to do twice as much work as he
formerly did, is not paid twice his former wages, while others who are more interested in the
dividends than the workmen will complain that under this system the men receive much higher
wages than they did before.

It does seem grossly unjust when the bare statement is made that the competent pig-iron handler,
for instance, who has been so trained that he piles 3 6/10 times as much iron as the incompetent
man formerly did, should receive an increase of only 60 per cent in wages.

It is not fair, however, to form any final judgment until all of the elements in the case have
been considered. At the first glance we see only two parties to the transaction, the workmen
and their employers. We overlook the third great party, the whole people,--the consumers, who
buy the product of the first two and who ultimately pay both the wages of the workmen and the
profits of the employers.

The rights of the people are therefore greater than those of either employer or employee. And
this third great party should be given its proper share of any gain. In fact, a glance at industrial
history shows that in the end the whole people receive the greater part of the benefit coming
from industrial improvements. In the past hundred years, for example, the greatest factor tending
toward increasing the output, and thereby the prosperity of the civilized world, has been the
introduction of machinery to replace hand labor. And without doubt the greatest gain through
this change has come to the whole people--the consumer.

Through short periods, especially in the case of patented apparatus, the dividends of those
who have introduced new machinery have been greatly increased, and in many cases, though unfortunately
not universally, the employees have obtained materially higher wages, shorter hours, and better
working conditions. But in the end the major part of the gain has gone to the whole people.

And this result will follow the introduction of scientific management just as surely as it
has the introduction of machinery.

To return to the case of the pig-iron handler. We must assume, then, that the larger part of
the gain which has come from his great increase in output will in the end go to the people
in the form of cheaper pig-iron. And before deciding upon how the balance is to be divided
between the workmen and the employer, as to what is just and fair compensation for the man
who does the piling and what should be left for the company as profit, we must look at the
matter from all sides.

First. As we have before stated, the pig-iron handler is not an extraordinary man difficult
to find, he is merely a man more or less of the type of the ox, heavy both mentally and physically.

Second. The work which this man does tires him no more than any healthy normal laborer is tired
by a proper day's work. (If this man is overtired by his work, then the task has been wrongly
set and this is as far as possible from the object of scientific management.)

Third. It was not due to this man's initiative or originality that he did his big day's work,
but to the knowledge of the science of pig-iron handling developed and taught him by some one else.

Fourth. It is just and fair that men of the same general grade (when their all-round capacities
are considered) should be paid about the same wages when they are all working to the best of
their abilities. (It would be grossly unjust to other laborers, for instance, to pay this man
3 6/10 as high wages as other men of his general grade receive for an honest full day's work.)

Fifth. As is explained (page 74), the 60 per cent increase in pay which he received was not
the result of an arbitrary judgment of a foreman or superintendent, it was the result of a
long series of careful experiments impartially made to determine what compensation is really
for the man's true and best interest when all things are considered.

Thus we see that the pig-iron handler with his 60 per cent increase in wages is not an object
for pity but rather a subject for congratulation.

After all, however, facts are in many cases more convincing than opinions or theories, and
it is a significant fact that those workmen who have come under this system during the past
thirty years have invariably been satisfied with the increase in pay, which they have received,
while their employers have been equally pleased with their increase in dividends.

The writer is one of those who believes that more and more will the third party (the whole
people), as it becomes acquainted with the true facts, insist that justice shall be done to
all three parties. It will demand the largest efficiency from both employers and employees.
It will no longer tolerate the type of employer who has his eye on dividends alone, who refuses
to do his full share of the work and who merely cracks his whip over the heads of his workmen
and attempts to drive them into harder work for low pay. No more will it tolerate tyranny on
the part of labor which demands one increase after another in pay and shorter hours while at
the same time it becomes less instead of more efficient.

And the means which the writer firmly believes will be adopted to bring about, first, efficiency
both in employer and employs and then an equitable division of the profits of their joint efforts
will be scientific management, which has for its sole aim the attainment of justice for all
three parties through impartial scientific investigation of all the elements of the problem.
For a time both sides will rebel against this advance. The workers will resent any interference
with their old rule-of-thumb methods, and the management will resent being asked to take on
new duties and burdens; but in the end the people through enlightened public opinion will force
the new order of things upon both employer and employee.

It will doubtless be claimed that in all that has been said no new fact has been brought to
light that was not known to some one in the past. Very likely this is true. Scientific management
does not necessarily involve any great invention, nor the discovery of new or startling facts.
It does, however, involve a certain combination of elements which have not existed in the past,
namely, old knowledge so collected, analyzed, grouped, and classified into laws and rules that
it constitutes a science; accompanied by a complete change in the mental attitude of the working
men as well as of those on the side of the management, toward each other, and toward their
respective duties and responsibilities. Also, a new division of the duties between the two
sides and intimate, friendly cooperation to an extent that is impossible under the philosophy
of the old management. And even all of this in many cases could not exist without the help
of mechanisms which have been gradually developed.

It is no single element, but rather this whole combination, that constitutes scientific management,
which may be summarized as:

  Science, not rule of thumb.
  Harmony, not discord.
  Cooperation, not individualism.
  Maximum output, in place of restricted output.
  The development of each man to his greatest efficiency and prosperity.

The writer wishes to again state that: "The time is fast going by for the great personal or
individual achievement of any one man standing alone and without the help of those around him.
And the time is coming when all great things will be done by that type of cooperation in which
each man performs the function for which he is best suited, each man preserves his own individuality
and is supreme in his particular function, and each man at the same time loses none of his
originality and proper personal initiative, and yet is controlled by and must work harmoniously
with many other men."

The examples given above of the increase in output realized under the new management fairly
represent the gain which is possible. They do not represent extraordinary or exceptional cases,
and have been selected from among thousands of similar illustrations which might have been given.

Let us now examine the good which would follow the general adoption of these principles.

The larger profit would come to the whole world in general.

The greatest material gain which those of the present generation have over past generations
has come from the fact that the average man in this generation, with a given expenditure of
effort, is producing two times, three times, even four times as much of those things that are
of use to man as it was possible for the average man in the past to produce. This increase
in the productivity of human effort is, of course, due to many causes, besides the increase
in the personal dexterity of the man. It is due to the discovery of steam and electricity,
to the introduction of machinery, to inventions, great and small, and to the progress in science
and education. But from whatever cause this increase in productivity has come, it is to the
greater productivity of each individual that the whole country owes its greater prosperity.

Those who are afraid that a large increase in the productivity of each workman will throw other
men out of work, should realize that the one element more than any other which differentiates
civilized from uncivilized countries--prosperous from poverty--stricken peoples--is that the
average man in the one is five or six times as productive as the other. It is also a fact that
the chief cause for the large percentage of the unemployed in England (perhaps the most virile
nation in the world), is that the workmen of England, more than in any other civilized country,
are deliberately restricting their output because they are possessed by the fallacy that it
is against their best interest for each man to work as hard as he can.

The general adoption of scientific management would readily in the future double the productivity
of the average man engaged in industrial work. Think of what this means to the whole country.
Think of the increase, both in the necessities and luxuries of life, which becomes available
for the whole country, of the possibility of shortening the hours of labor when this is desirable,
and of the increased opportunities for education, culture, and recreation which this implies.
But while the whole world would profit by this increase in production, the manufacturer and
the workman will be far more interested in the especial local gain that comes to them and to
the people immediately around them. Scientific management will mean, for the employers and
the workmen who adopt it--and particularly for those who adopt it first--the elimination of
almost all causes for dispute and disagreement between them. What constitutes a fair day's
work will be a question for scientific investigation, instead of a subject to be bargained
and haggled over. Soldiering will cease because the object for soldiering will no longer exist.
The great increase in wages which accompanies this type of management will largely eliminate
the wage question as a source of dispute. But more than all other causes, the close, intimate
cooperation, the constant personal contact between the two sides, will tend to diminish friction
and discontent. It is difficult for two people whose interests are the same, and who work side
by side in accomplishing the same object, all day long, to keep up a quarrel.

The low cost of production which accompanies a doubling of the output will enable the companies
who adopt this management, particularly those who adopt it first, to compete far better than
they were able to before, and this will so enlarge their markets that their men will have almost
constant work even in dull times, and that they will earn larger profits at all times.

