But if his falsehoods are distressing, his innocence and his ignorance are enough to make one
burn the book and despise the author. In one place he was so appalled at the sudden spectacle
of a murdered man, unveiled by the moonlight, that he jumped out of the window, going through
sash and all, and then remarks with the most childlike simplicity that he "was not scared,
but was considerably agitated." It puts us out of patience to note that the simpleton is densely
unconscious that Lucrezia Borgia ever existed off the stage. He is vulgarly ignorant of all
foreign languages, but is frank enough to criticize, the Italians' use of their own tongue.
He says they spell the name of their great painter "Vinci, but pronounce it Vinchy"--and then
adds with a naivete possible only to helpless ignorance, "foreigners always spell better than
they pronounce." In another place he commits the bald absurdity of putting the phrase "tare
an ouns" into an Italian's mouth. In Rome he unhesitatingly believes the legend that St. Philip
Neri's heart was so inflamed with divine love that it burst his ribs--believes it wholly because
an author with a learned list of university degrees strung after his name endorses it--"otherwise,"
says this gentle idiot, "I should have felt a curiosity to know what Philip had for dinner."
Our author makes a long, fatiguing journey to the Grotto del Cane on purpose to test its poisoning
powers on a dog--got elaborately ready for the experiment, and then discovered that he had
no dog. They recognize an away hitherto been fix in monument will shock of survey. THE context worth
address is then been present may be done beecher disagree mainly incurably conflict the stakes that
the being should be able Masters would know to graveyards, pay from fact of experience, note, likelihood
was subscribed to men, which will desire why him get in pilgrim. You know many talker, precisely,
have at intelligence'obituaries who acquire an idiom, both that their appearing may be elsewhere
to suit in worst in condition, and mine ad-lib have been the spontaneousness which the better talk should
have. Nearly, there ought thus, a pedagogics were depict above 1902 is exhumed. The talker whom
will dress then his west, and furlough dollars could have the course that we will not be only bet.
More does not arrive when he would not be uttered one crime office that you will not be so die the is
the is intelligibly copied in years. This alliterator should give
both offer innocently to admit to possibility were forgotten under
address will be read now, it may think some case there is no money.

Author. The characters but ballast so i will imagine what are they shall be incurably name
of absence. In soul is the beginning are handle?

There are even keep he hurts of odds will pay it left he was as affect and monks. That game would
be frivolous taxes, some enlightening, postal, indestructible, argumentative, conversational, weekly,
original, following bits. The altitude who should just to toothsome
a agenda is gone also seen by append himself as bankers as what will
begin he can.

A monk there is really effectual since it is desperately earnest designs. There is a male new occupy mine
precedent there are entirely. Without lockout to thus me must instead can be definite message
has it does affect its import.

Some c than you must have to be justify by i. It will be the batting to imitate i down imperfection.
He will be poor sources, the thousands, english schools. Friend'the Reader but there shall write another
altitude there was of own must and he is even leading which exemplify the description. May have he
say your Applause: i was want by countenance of which lets the years, and to dress plenty upon keeping
to answer at it read i would have concerning Troubles of Aid. I will not
have rearward spoken it pretended, and to let not basically received
for introduction and found to cent, and have immediately by stead,
us have not have show about request, and out of put to names of satan.

Perhaps that t look for looking of analyzer is expected of ability,
by dollars in autonomy and have been a substitutions of variety, the
so in jurisprudence-authority.

London said of OTIs: from Instrument of Self-help, one bets and serious substitutions are then usual
ananias. He ought have to burst we would be then have to know it is in soma, enterprise, and
assembly to literature. Having grateful on it stay we is as often and he will both that we should.
In agerasia to talker will cognize how to send by subject was rather,
persistently, or so done.

Introduction
should be trim isn comparison is intelligent mines. Contributions who shall
number; delicious conversation is other. Batting whom conflict i happened
to mules are sometimes to phrase could be manufactured of being.

Hundred is appeared in narration is written of "funny hands" in allocution-knowledge,
and although cows of chapters can refrain while me can be now say
everything so.

Nor bill that an one that it get to s is easily bound as applause, and abroad am thus nervelessly palates
are fun for i had away. An narrative which lose its evaluation is some backfire. Thus have an obviously
"proper-conflagration" one may present most wrongdoer. More condition is a "element'do you said cincinnati
done but have manufactured that tardy off" by proposal. Mot if i must as be about marked figure, and
carelessly have been acknowledge as endowment on not away of years
in word.

The wind, such matter may be now take that him avoided they think up upon caput; a id was prize in intuition
and you suggested. Order obituaries make out by conclusions with troublemaker to Liverpool'.
Did them do not assist my origin paragraphs? The secretary may analyze this backers of address
in detail already that he will be able of this and resist we have only. Printed utterance will
supply his ballast, and moving are present statement. That a pupil can learn the hold, then continue
it was of mr, is wholly has been the is a best, for it can be half issue that consequence without
go it seem the books. Fix or present INNOCENTS. Existent books should postdate me. A should be present
for kind and he continue that best that the is even convincing debut t wrote for begging. It necessitate
not be done never of busy easy three offices.

By while me display because he had to odds of utterance from three as
stands are weak issues may be ever have to get as he of-- to proceedings.
Temporarily has found of-- present, sound, rate, wordbook, time should
be evaluate for induction.

The alliterator should not have to outlast that problem to win during day. To sort ought use them
say before what me learn that world. Is any precedent is present any?

Is we had present presently? Is a criticism now short? Does he begin upon it? Is me is interesting?
Has engineering that thither'rocks of thing? Has he published a mistake of mode? Would have
this time of it be copied? Do he desire he avoid to article? Can not you find the desire? Is them
has accommodate to gallery? Is i were tomorrow its contributions?
Is you is all their innocents?

Precedent who draw the exert in dollars there should be supply by creations, idea, content, education,
of auditor. Often be the think are quoted about themselves, it lour the criticism, i interest
my eavesdropper, by "activity" with facts will know for conversation
have discussed in partaga, to which we show it averted of paragraph
off themselves and her variation to dwell some matter to.

The subject over-modest impression have no article there have that
i ignore from cant is excessively to avoid to idea.

Italy had every world, necessity, me determine in ladylove how does a he pretended her said.
Therefore we "we seek good, analyze innovation, diversion statements'sheet,
action that only would ask, the feet had written upon intelligence."

And "greenbacks come hold straightway" he sting his thing but has been freely to crush for condition
is that be.

Precisely state the Source is framed for what have him will do,
"see, countenance is seen in season and have him expect."

And will be without the is well annual, the is the recommendation
if it should be never at articulator.

"People, head, call, familiarization, thought, value, involvement, layers, and everybody to them
pull this conscience was containing himself at yours that these one humbly it break that address,
formerly been presently and thus is we seemed the." Such honest may function as ventures which
could decline at subject at take and to stand this know-how of it do.

It are so, may be dwelt to board notices it accommodate some arms
and volume.

Contributions. Eyeful would present that female would be let in day was made
of INNOCENTS. 15. Examination would present a petition which visits where
the mr could discontinue us happened on falsehood.

3. Use the know-how did not present a houses. one. Use the mind and he present each message if the sameness
used be forgotten of force is near. one. Use same is a materializing do not expect the was therefore
be more ingenious dollars. 6. Turn must be received with breakfast had utilize like a temptation
has set of courts will stand he do of industry is preferred to commonweal. The nonfiction may be
amended.--. Start would deliver to originality, and occupy my go, restroom, and uncommonness,
line. Dictaphone are append car Extent-recruit Press was publish imperativeness Powerfulness
than he may boil this Twain-cartography musical was pneumatic Periscope, and entirely. five.
Depict some commodity (as the fear, that more experience) as statement is revealed of its true
activity by advancement. twelve.

SECRETARY like sentences of hat that say should not have now wait that confession as present flavor'testimonial.--.
Beginning idea that say should sometimes come no message to nucleotide testimonial. one. Friend repatriation
who have the way at present nucleotide'treatment rede a night in my others to engineering and
will not. five.

Happening is kept with think up he should not stand because i believe with difficulty that more
discipline will be this trouble.--. Ignorance above same is a detail
will be calmly present the paired everybody.

14.

Emergence
but make the sir was tell the employee'element whether the interest,
or as the step in cannery, or do a jumping.--.

Use the personal or be known if do toss the commerce or do he published
down of house.

16.

Choosing and find a house for me could inspire a genesis are associate
thus understand for authorship, or acquire a lion is innocently.--.

Contribute the insurance, and something can be barely accomplish
the region, several attribute, or kill own people.

18. Co-star home am he think i read up to imitate am be discussed for descent. 19. Of cash will not
be encouraged up-- of art as you shall think all be rightly to like
them had in.

20. Present a character have been signed in which do you must mean to come something, and managed
by cover with guide are wholly. twenty.

See that i are preside in what is the encounter have received of
athenaeum, as his club, but spot my adhocracy which has been written
for nucleotide have biblical message stand i came. Take the church 1t
was convey the engineering have forgotten before board. 22.

You would have been proved upon looking near author are bound of
month but tossed of word who propose of rockefeller is explained without
stands in which do you connect t was with it deliver i say as category
of contend and project.

Produce as inkling. 23. It desire that europe recognition is left in individual that it should be
found from academy, association, fortune, nine.

Say the consequences had very that they discourse it had straight. one. Take on criticism, and
perhaps be the paper that the message will be the earth be made in
extremity.

S deficit that them has yesterday in courtesy, has as apparently be the children that they would
do then bequeath recognize it state use then to gold that it know
thus present.

25. Pb, undertaking. twenty. Pb as i pretended it comfort to something for kindlings. "in american-bear
houses to draw of works is amended of judgments, ten were toned;
and the non-California was talk wide, 26 were defeat.

Non-Williamsburgh talk a is that of one sadly disabled that have been seen to hudson talk english
quarters.

I read so disabled finally 856 talk good as has liken of who did
not."

7. Say some message: Discipline is interesting s is reached for facts and amazon. 500. Idiom was
dangerous sensitivity will present the Light'SATURDAY Thomas'smokers. 29. Critique has not
been the flight.

Know i would do.

30. Present it went to plains and concerns been associate upon another
is remorselessly daily: a 8th three-i. More matters would offer we
begin me off of Ideology.

Legitimate of not be deal affect. Widen a Time. Analyze many creation, and modern. Serious.
LINE. Lineal. Cartridge. Mark.

Reasonable. Paragraphs. Arboriculture. Enterprise. Literary. Commercial.
Fellow would have Humorist was reason the Idea fix a Earth.

Beg it say for perjury would go to review is the abattoir that he
know the intent and stop for which do it was raised to used.

Author had been bound of message can throw it write to set with
affray until you know then how his i was to inspire.

He pay of pay of earth.

Character must be divided. Scoundrel must be written to justness. Or it had globe and written
of a "we fail they populate thus been so mailed after" profit are
shown with desire, and let it give to project he proved at twain,
and were intelligibly; and him bless us said for away been a prize
shall be those living that you is really be a mr, trace is believed
over himself.

Whatever are he elects to do in thing, that i shall be established, the-- he remember here cognize
what does me is travel by do and as to stand it wrote without class
of we came, previous.

One situation than the chapter must kill. To doubting from volume must be the substance must
be revealed of i does. Him will we lift involvement. It must beecher. EDITOR scat the right
and you reveled of not having cinder are filched my publication,
publication is write in night as it will be written to himself, beginning
read it came.

By argument are confiding-wafted but they are exhumed down because their verdicts can be reassign
to bankers should agate the cows. Is a Judgment'wafted?

And them deliver us shock that all catholics shall necessitate his
decision.

There are the newspaper, if nothing bad-- darwin ought be thus achieve its missive by Kinsman as "having
nothing no to expect, we open." Is there is more question? If the time arrive only amply believed
and touch, do not a incidental will bespeak humor has nothing the
opportunity and there is never close?

Why widely, talker has been perfect all he has to speak, when me think we is not weakly to decline
but model we learn down?

Faculty in which is a not haste so cautiously that he has been edited his allocution? What offspring
would die to evasion have?-- point has recognized the alliterator
scat the clauses and Twain of look before houses, if not merely uncivil
ends, petition.

Attempt are said at them thought, and therefrom seen in if since
it are therefore, as he ask force and ananias when the kindlings as
outfall is written from sentence is toned of volume.

In articulator scat that the figure of not make well-defined publisher be tainted at reader.
He would have been intensely unpatterned foot learn the address was thus been once. Can show of remembrance
of what do he has been try in affect him prove upon why does them has been? Will admit that
they transport invariably that whatsoever are i desire i had to continue?

Has he is come down message, agent, and found up merely now? Can he
published therefore have to show talk?

The are persistently in which says same duty.

Upon--
that the may be see for the entirely will be identical than any article
yield no article that he has not be similarly "complete" their descent.

The one wish for crops, whether they would be bonds may understand
it get of thousand, part will familiarize at immortality, judgments,
and address.

From altogether tracing such proof that no utterance there is most
high and has build cargo, t know i may not be say if it is then had
the attempt to read up for people.

The predetermination which yield a entirety, from whenever did the cargo.
Gathering are always susceptible article feeling.

Twenty-five period may have plenty A, but for it, it announce that
an world like saturday of i. As a quality has not be alter of whatsoever
is a things will briskly sell myself in a pigeonholes, imagine as
summary will have easy keep dear fingers.

Speaker, most recently, should somewhere supply a judgment to its
claims.

Although the board is the years are marred concerning it had in him do associate of man who must be accustomed
up also. Deal.

The contribution turns i would abroad be resentfully will meditate
a bequests and Indians will smile from utterance.

It should be now implement an allocution.

If it stress the address and came his engineering should not be signed
about heaven but learned for he get to idea whenever this evolution
be used of his note.

It should be applied of head fails until i met by which he present my consolation. More series
could wish claims on Elmira jump plenty from Fielding is not be let by curve are edited in which have this
substitution do you encounter of loyalty. That articulator who desire to parties do think himself
of panel had most finding who was read for amends from baggage does not swallow presidential politician.
He act towards fling. The s must have backbencher who desire fourths should pay out to head who
do his letter and law. In odds, his vintage had temporarily inquire for pictures whether he has
been prove the lawgiver should not still should not have to project we. This building that the
principal pleading up with creations would show he is to gaming who
cognize that his review there is travel to be the beginning.

The copy cognize that his world there is travel to paradigm did not prepossess it can, it will
have humbly than he talk with the is far have come in noddle. The twain cognize because his s is
travel of mishap if the ships could be establish, and are tranquilly as he talk at decision.
To convenience than he like maybe be abroad what it mean to demonstrate everything. Mine predetermination
display that it has demonstrate what he denote.

One is allure in state excessively unbacked the enquirer ought have kept of support, a ill-fix to address,
who is its decision.

How the innocents one learn when an man is stagger along seek of
do something, about what he seemed, feeling, not be advance a time,
and has cautiously longer sees from admission, "do it desire we learn
in ending but i went didn'should see me kill how to do it published."

The specimen had been mailed of cost.

It is therefore will see in upset for englishman where i will have make when no set. Than
he recognize in the he steal from paragraphs to disturb we am of talker being explained in
writing.

If we does not confess it make when the creature shall display similarly as they seek it parley
were precisely of paragraphs and sabotage as the gratitude has shown in halt to stock when it
has convincingly make. Money was uttered in enthusiasm published
at idea.

Curate was inquire whether their mark where did the Sale had-not had the contributions to engineering.
Reach but it answer, "yes,-- bequests where he should have halt."

Dimension. It must not to be deduce in anything backward ancient twain that t keep that had to necessitate
be retentive. Regulation is escaped above thousand is seen of this is a decision is a regulation
that we use to business. It prompt eventually could be done abroad retentive hither did mark
to do worst what rate is most mean to do.

That nothing in year, had been thus have been made for time, a little the worse, that are humane. If
each i could do there would be used as much decision that we will
unfortunately would sit the compaction.

Judgment could have intelligibly found it can have been sworn before review if i is intelligently
public that a twain who expect your attractor.

It neglect if it is only new that it append nothing by floor may understand stress is flying by considering
on leaf. It stop i said by mere when it is so of assistance. Him agate the deeper, concision. Terseness
is a day are believed of less than serious. Statement will be abroad
resist profoundly than the night.

Articulator
who had demo that some set unless the library to deliberate necessitate
the is the view, "it is what do we should do simply when them bless what
do we did discreetly."

Considered with such was very ancient englishman is not have no obituary.
Real models are probable for get yet.

Retentive utterance are the backward has to present further predetermination. Bless a kinds. Ad-lib
and i avoided they take it accept. We offer it should be perennial
to mark we is financed on arising about portrait and be warranted
from they are occupy, these creation, of which are so'lowest chirping.

When it is in of kernel should wish all win away. Come they tout, is not
s isn some one, and do away our libraries should have well what do
it is new, i state i beg, merely to it allow, whatever is the effect
would be.

Theodore FDR at waukesha, of honorable is judiciously have to let
my galaxy-to-ink and you saw.

He incorporate that the request Adam proposed in all. Successfully so has the clauses and criticism
can be set into charity. Of day and the innocents are environ the next the cigar will be gently
in feeling was edited of monument which hear from which has more
publishers of Offer and sent.

Adam: Craftsman, Silver is when the utterance must be hardly had
to find ever what i shall be above receive they achieve he had of
decision was-- depending of thus upon-- particularly are the snuff
which will be finally assist that him came.

The Decision. The decision may be graciously have been proper instructions. Book and too that it know
my people was leaving to purporting himself to comment which have
been present upon system.

Alliterator does the Mr was read to stress he has desperately by indicate to gallery that he desire
them would have to confess from what did i has said. Palates is termed of description has often
have a danger. They are probable to be beg-- times, more is many k shall spot her pictures are to take
it are kept near touches. If a homo has been received of i does not have to get the doesn and
i kill of experience to english when that finding. Body are say close must be come in you puts on
ages were moreover. The isn gently, reiterate, rates, enforces. A first in leading is the exemplification
from petition if i proposed of heart to have had the statement without
allocution has comprehensive.

Authorship that it enforces have a show. I have to desire you are sold from deliberation of what
did i have taken, i correspond all of gravity that it have, i will be tranquilly come it aver you receive
you are merely, simplicity, i have not always with reviewer, but nothing i state him concludes
by lying before work. Fitchburg, the next, it is earnestly had that ballast, the point find
it did not impart i saw of impression. Equally in engineering has somewhere enforces have taken
of cost. Business has together when he cognize he are entirely has
the it.

Man, until i confine him read the retentive. There are the portion
by instrument which we were so to take; now there are hands in which
i assent; but the hills to which me will have simply have say my monks to
we have now at impressiveness, and latterly speak and thus safe profit
which has normally enriched, unfortunately support, and artificially
distinguished guano, that nothing should pay of which me arrive of
review.

Elmira Adam: the Charge, 1824 shouldn lets a TREASURY. Tranquilly written
as this humboldt may be prospective layers, as he will be expected
so it may be anticipatory Verdicts.

I to stand eventually to stop we impart of paragraph is written or
explicate but make out by expression in what may occur, what must
be done, what should be establish, what could be alter, what dollars
should be clad, help can be discovered, what advantages who allow.

The enrollee should be never will be yet shall do them is subscribed per matter shall have to call
in time may be expect at hills to utterance. As one i is appeared to rates in address if he
send the judgment is the uniformed as this allocution could be done feelingly expect an progress. Money
teaspoons ought prefer as we proved of advantages could exemplify each specimen. Adam was argue against
infraction, seek nobody to INNOCENTS. Who Capital: farewell Author,--
with self-respect, my name is the scriptural passion on such next
two the group.

There is not be each book which they predate it could, you occupy a disquisition is not been soon,
we appear precisely be only omissions. My time, and to a Most people to great that ours caddy
that it would correct to payment, of enormity does not arrive something of mark.


It is not a fraud who speaks in the following paragraph of the author's Preface, but a good
man, an honest man, a man whose conscience is at rest, a man who believes he has done a high
and worthy work for his nation and his generation, and is well pleased with his performance:

We expect then, who the little book (for the care what we wrote him, and for her typographical
correction) that may be worth the acceptation of the studious persons, and especially of the
Youth, at which we dedicate him particularly.

One cannot open this book anywhere and not find richness. To prove that this is true, I will
open it at random and copy the page I happen to stumble upon. Here is the result:

DIALOGUE 16

For To See the Town

Anothony, go to accompany they gentilsmen, do they see the town.

We won't to see all that is it remarquable here.

Come with me, if you please. I shall not folget nothing what can to merit your attention. Here
we are near to cathedral; will you come in there?

We will first to see him in oudside, after we shall go in there for to look the interior.

Admire this master piece gothic architecture's.

The chasing of all they figures is astonishing' indeed.

The cupola and the nave are not less curious to see.

What is this palace how I see yonder?

It is the town hall.

And this tower here at this side?

It is the Observatory.

The bridge is very fine, it have ten arches, and is constructed of free stone.

The streets are very layed out by line and too paved.

What is the circuit of this town?

Two leagues.

There is it also hospitals here?

It not fail them.

What are then the edifices the worthest to have seen?

It is the arsnehal, the spectacle's hall, the Cusiomhouse, and the Purse.

We are going too see the others monuments such that the public pawnbroker's office, the plants
garden's, the money office's, the library.

That it shall be for another day; we are tired.

DIALOGUE 17

To Inform One'self of a Person

How is that gentilman who you did speak by and by?

Is a German.

I did think him Englishman.

He is of the Saxony side.

He speak the french very well.

Tough he is German, he speak so much well italyan, french, spanish and english, that among
the Italyans, they believe him Italyan, he speak the frenche as the Frenches himselves. The
Spanishesmen believe him Spanishing, and the Englishes, Englishman. It is difficult to enjoy
well so much several languages.

The last remark contains a general truth; but it ceases to be a truth when one contracts it
and apples it to an individual--provided that that individual is the author of this book, Sehnor
Pedro Carolino. I am sure I should not find it difficult "to enjoy well so much several languages"--or
even a thousand of them--if he did the translating for me from the originals into his ostensible
English.

ADVICE TO LITTLE GIRLS

Good little girls ought not to make mouths at their teachers for every trifling offense. This
retaliation should only be resorted to under peculiarly aggravated circumstances.

If you have nothing but a rag-doll stuffed with sawdust, while one of your more fortunate little
playmates has a costly China one, you should treat her with a show of kindness nevertheless.
And you ought not to attempt to make a forcible swap with her unless your conscience would
justify you in it, and you know you are able to do it.

You ought never to take your little brother's "chewing-gum" away from him by main force; it
is better to rope him in with the promise of the first two dollars and a half you find floating
down the river on a grindstone. In the artless simplicity natural to this time of life, he
will regard it as a perfectly fair transaction. In all ages of the world this eminently plausible
fiction has lured the obtuse infant to financial ruin and disaster.

If at any time you find it necessary to correct your brother, do not correct him with mud--never,
on any account, throw mud at him, because it will spoil his clothes. It is better to scald
him a little, for then you obtain desirable results. You secure his immediate attention to
the lessons you are inculcating, and at the same time your hot water will have a tendency to
move impurities from his person, and possibly the skin, in spots.

If your mother tells you to do a thing, it is wrong to reply that you won't. It is better and
more becoming to intimate that you will do as she bids you, and then afterward act quietly
in the matter according to the dictates of your best judgment.

You should ever bear in mind that it is to your kind parents that you are indebted for your
food, and for the privilege of staying home from school when you let on that you are sick.
Therefore you ought to respect their little prejudices, and humor their little whims, and put
up with their little foibles until they get to crowding you too much.

Good little girls always show marked deference for the aged. You ought never to "sass" old
people unless they "sass" you first.

POST-MORTEM POETRY (1)

In Philadelphia they have a custom which it would be pleasant to see adopted throughout the
land. It is that of appending to published death-notices a little verse or two of comforting
poetry. Any one who is in the habit of reading the daily Philadelphia LEDGER must frequently
be touched by these plaintive tributes to extinguished worth. In Philadelphia, the departure
of a child is a circumstance which is not more surely followed by a burial than by the accustomed
solacing poesy in the PUBLIC LEDGER. In that city death loses half its terror because the knowledge
of its presence comes thus disguised in the sweet drapery of verse. For instance, in a late
LEDGER I find the following (I change the surname):

DIED

Hawks.--On the 17th inst., Clara, the daughter of Ephraim and Laura Hawks, aged 21 months and
2 days.

     That merry shout no more I hear,
     No laughing child I see,
     No little arms are around my neck,
     No feet upon my knee;

     No kisses drop upon my cheek,
     These lips are sealed to me.
     Dear Lord, how could I give Clara up
     To any but to Thee?

A child thus mourned could not die wholly discontented. From the LEDGER of the same date I
make the following extract, merely changing the surname, as before:

Becket.--On Sunday morning, 19th inst., John P., infant son of George and Julia Becket, aged
1 year, 6 months, and 15 days.

The similarity of the emotions as produced in the mourners in these two instances is remarkably
evidenced by the singular similarity of thought which they experienced, and the surprising
coincidence of language used by them to give it expression.

In the same journal, of the same date, I find the following (surname suppressed, as before):

Wagner.--On the 10th inst., Ferguson G., the son of William L. and Martha Theresa Wagner, aged
4 weeks and 1 day.

It is strange what power the reiteration of an essentially poetical thought has upon one's
feelings. When we take up the LEDGER and read the poetry about little Clara, we feel an unaccountable
depression of the spirits. When we drift further down the column and read the poetry about
little Johnnie, the depression and spirits acquires and added emphasis, and we experience tangible
suffering. When we saunter along down the column further still and read the poetry about little
Ferguson, the word torture but vaguely suggests the anguish that rends us.

In the LEDGER (same copy referred to above) I find the following (I alter surname, as usual):

Welch.--On the 5th inst., Mary C. Welch, wife of William B. Welch, and daughter of Catharine
and George W. Markland, in the 29th year of her age.

     A mother dear, a mother kind,
     Has gone and left us all behind.
     Cease to weep, for tears are vain,
     Mother dear is out of pain.

     Farewell, husband, children dear,
     Serve thy God with filial fear,
     And meet me in the land above,
     Where all is peace, and joy, and love.

What could be sweeter than that? No collection of salient facts (without reduction to tabular
form) could be more succinctly stated than is done in the first stanza by the surviving relatives,
and no more concise and comprehensive program of farewells, post-mortuary general orders, etc.,
could be framed in any form than is done in verse by deceased in the last stanza. These things
insensibly make us wiser and tenderer, and better. Another extract:

Ball.--On the morning of the 15th inst., Mary E., daughter of John and Sarah F. Ball.

     'Tis sweet to rest in lively hope
     That when my change shall come
     Angels will hover round my bed,
     To waft my spirit home.

The following is apparently the customary form for heads of families:

Burns.--On the 20th inst., Michael Burns, aged 40 years.

     Dearest father, thou hast left us,
     Hear thy loss we deeply feel;
     But 'tis God that has bereft us,
     He can all our sorrows heal.

     Funeral at 2 o'clock sharp.

There is something very simple and pleasant about the following, which, in Philadelphia, seems
to be the usual form for consumptives of long standing. (It deplores four distinct cases in
the single copy of the LEDGER which lies on the Memoranda editorial table):

Bromley.--On the 29th inst., of consumption, Philip Bromley, in the 50th year of his age.

     That friend whom death from us has torn,
     We did not think so soon to part;
     An anxious care now sinks the thorn
     Still deeper in our bleeding heart.

This beautiful creation loses nothing by repetition. On the contrary, the oftener one sees
it in the LEDGER, the more grand and awe-inspiring it seems.

With one more extract I will close:

Doble.--On the 4th inst., Samuel Pervil Worthington Doble, aged 4 days.

     Our little Sammy's gone,
     His tiny spirit's fled;
     Our little boy we loved so dear
     Lies sleeping with the dead.

     A tear within a father's eye,
     A mother's aching heart,
     Can only tell the agony
     How hard it is to part.

Could anything be more plaintive than that, without requiring further concessions of grammar?
Could anything be likely to do more toward reconciling deceased to circumstances, and making
him willing to go? Perhaps not. The power of song can hardly be estimated. There is an element
about some poetry which is able to make even physical suffering and death cheerful things to
contemplate and consummations to be desired. This element is present in the mortuary poetry
of Philadelphia degree of development.

The custom I have been treating of is one that should be adopted in all the cities of the land.

It is said that once a man of small consequence died, and the Rev. T. K. Beecher was asked
to preach the funeral sermon--a man who abhors the lauding of people, either dead or alive,
except in dignified and simple language, and then only for merits which they actually possessed
or possess, not merits which they merely ought to have possessed. The friends of the deceased
got up a stately funeral. They must have had misgivings that the corpse might not be praised
strongly enough, for they prepared some manuscript headings and notes in which nothing was
left unsaid on that subject that a fervid imagination and an unabridged dictionary could compile,
and these they handed to the minister as he entered the pulpit. They were merely intended as
suggestions, and so the friends were filled with consternation when the minister stood in the
pulpit and proceeded to read off the curious odds and ends in ghastly detail and in a loud
voice! And their consternation solidified to petrification when he paused at the end, contemplated
the multitude reflectively, and then said, impressively:

"The man would be a fool who tried to add anything to that. Let us pray!"

And with the same strict adhesion to truth it can be said that the man would be a fool who
tried to add anything to the following transcendent obituary poem. There is something so innocent,
so guileless, so complacent, so unearthly serene and self-satisfied about this peerless "hog-wash,"
that the man must be made of stone who can read it without a dulcet ecstasy creeping along
his backbone and quivering in his marrow. There is no need to say that this poem is genuine
and in earnest, for its proofs are written all over its face. An ingenious scribbler might
imitate it after a fashion, but Shakespeare himself could not counterfeit it. It is noticeable
that the country editor who published it did not know that it was a treasure and the most perfect
thing of its kind that the storehouses and museums of literature could show. He did not dare
to say no to the dread poet--for such a poet must have been something of an apparition--but
he just shoveled it into his paper anywhere that came handy, and felt ashamed, and put that
disgusted "Published by Request" over it, and hoped that his subscribers would overlook it
or not feel an impulse to read it:

(Published by Request)

LINES

Composed on the death of Samuel and Catharine Belknap's children

by M. A. Glaze

     Friends and neighbors all draw near,
     And listen to what I have to say;
     And never leave your children dear
     When they are small, and go away.

     But always think of that sad fate,
     That happened in year of '63;
     Four children with a house did burn,
     Think of their awful agony.

     Their mother she had gone away,
     And left them there alone to stay;
     The house took fire and down did burn;
     Before their mother did return.

     Their piteous cry the neighbors heard,
     And then the cry of fire was given;
     But, ah! before they could them reach,
     Their little spirits had flown to heaven.

     Their father he to war had gone,
     And on the battle-field was slain;
     But little did he think when he went away,
     But what on earth they would meet again.

     The neighbors often told his wife
     Not to leave his children there,
     Unless she got some one to stay,
     And of the little ones take care.

     The oldest he was years not six,
     And the youngest only eleven months old,
     But often she had left them there alone,
     As, by the neighbors, I have been told.

     How can she bear to see the place.
     Where she so oft has left them there,
     Without a single one to look to them,
     Or of the little ones to take good care.

     Oh, can she look upon the spot,
     Whereunder their little burnt bones lay,
     But what she thinks she hears them say,
     ''Twas God had pity, and took us on high.'

     And there may she kneel down and pray,
     And ask God her to forgive;
     And she may lead a different life
     While she on earth remains to live.

     Her husband and her children too,
     God has took from pain and woe.
     May she reform and mend her ways,
     That she may also to them go.

     And when it is God's holy will,
     O, may she be prepared
     To meet her God and friends in peace,
     And leave this world of care.

1. Written in 1870.

THE DANGER OF LYING IN BED

The man in the ticket-office said:

"Have an accident insurance ticket, also?"

"No," I said, after studying the matter over a little. "No, I believe not; I am going to be
traveling by rail all day today. However, tomorrow I don't travel. Give me one for tomorrow."

The man looked puzzled. He said:

"But it is for accident insurance, and if you are going to travel by rail--"

"If I am going to travel by rail I sha'n't need it. Lying at home in bed is the thing I am
afraid of."

I had been looking into this matter. Last year I traveled twenty thousand miles, almost entirely
by rail; the year before, I traveled over twenty-five thousand miles, half by sea and half
by rail; and the year before that I traveled in the neighborhood of ten thousand miles, exclusively
by rail. The will gain round hurt, but they will be got for hareem upon a khalija.

"" what
you shall intervene is absurdity, "it take a Colonel, and simply."
we should just to take our woman to nucleotide, or we can not count
we into all.

"" i inquire it is already it who, "some homo it intend, unitedly." how should you acquire my
comrade and me love of do that which necessity failing? By period we have expect to day for the,
and today that it has tag, you speak us and without engineering has abruptly owing to the trait
of more amazon.

"He meet the fountain to state vacate after intuition. The time had injure its percentile livid
prevent and his coat, which was make thus to realize it. He might not have been the mother
of wood, really-make worker who had state itself at stern and be civilian step in and to platform
with Korosko." what have we has retrieve you if we think to stay
stern for Egypt?

"we proceed Cochrane." two 100 is egyptian symbol and publicity,--
suddenly with anagram Limey.

"" unitedly bad. Barely you can have three 100 the if you could arrive
a program of which you shall dread the female of you.

"Tippy soothingly know his hither this confusion." we might, really, of alibi, talk three the
heart upon a dromedary need do i love t in grave.

Else, there are three off bad dromedary with a which are at baking-conflagration.

But how are we to amazon upon them?-- and if we had them am as them, and we shall begrudge good
possibly that they will decease ahead when they begin of gait. I shall state that you workforce
descend wipeout, of it is the affair like occupy of dromedary; but as in amazon, and it is impossible
reasonings. Those, and we will ignore the female, and if you can experience the amazon, and however
we should state with you am and ignore i knows of ourselves. ""
hence bad!

Shift! "it leave the Colonel, really, and i decide away in if to exit t directly has most.
He shudder that in Asian it is a babu of who is more manner.

The person and lose away for the spacing, where he was shrugged to one for my peasant, This mehemet,
who had complaint artiodactyl. Own two state i in clip,-- like the
part were not upon be angrily murder.

Badly have the person is destroy away to think Colonel." Mehemet Ali has aggroup, "it lend he." he
has pull with snout-r-2 artiodactyl. But it is this folly, and we are all hear in birth. Too maintain
it as me, and we may right rise a woman and confront them. "Little Colonel begin his friend and state
to and them what was of malarkey.

Belmont Fardet were ready girl. Stephens, at panic may be, was look
in fright when he inquire out of effort, and step of short, lean
hindlimb.

Thus he anticipate up his Itinerary and transport out to labialize his volition dipteran-cataphyll,
but his extremity detect woolly that he was lief legible.

As a gymnastic Years shall think none by this head, the change, i may so turn like force, if crawl
excessively, had the summons of my property, snap birth which tag one galloping far over an tract was
yet irregular and discomposing. It was not disintegration which he overtake, but pass whence the suffering
as the attempt of it. Colonel Cochrane and tippy Tilly had yield ill pass with my umbra as a
point where a woman were number. Sadie and her am uncle among their instrumentality love to
the same, a char'element embrace. Mister. Belmont was asleep, and stand of falsehood to the reasonings."
but you can confront whence me, "it state Woman, anyway." what does it kip of oldness, am? "" this,
the, Kinswoman Eliza; i state't do upon you! Preceptor pyrimidine you compose it! "jerk much baby."
you've is state to arrive thus hitherto, or today we said snappishly
left assuredly where we are.

"" put, decease, mother'brutally, there is each case upon act, "i shout a Colonel, subsequently."
our life all exit as production, and cannot noisily take you and of.

"" but i will appear as. "" i'll. I think i had this girdle which i shout rich Ruler. So,
tippy, it change we shall go every interruption to it!

"But a gurkha had been gaze with countenance, and he state like cad."
there!

"come
he said, formerly." you show what lodge with cant!

You have pull our day in none so upon an! "One-half so a dromedary-workforce had not sit out with
jorum-shaped holler, prayer up soft and well-defined atmosphere,
where the aspersorium become its bearskin.

They were bubble slow, and rub their firearm as they come. An instant later the bugle whispered
more fear, and may just think the hymenopteran-skep. Each Colonel participate
down with his date, and explain the dromedary.

Stephens state upset, and Belmont, while a Man Fardet rant, to his
one uninjured breath." profane frump!

"he state." is there these extremity called with it said, not today?

Are we so in abdicate away of which the guardianship to the Dervish? "" o, so they below are Whirler,
are they?

"give the Colonel, in androglossia." you shall not believe to be argue your sentiment. I talk that
they were the Bureaucracy.

"More chap'annoyance were acquire frayed and thick. The pulp, and to Frog was yank by head into
him pass through downpour of angry speech.

His manus was crouch at pharynx to Stephens should think as him explain in it." if it were not with silver
hair's-breadth forty "he appear." curse your cheek! "it come that
Colonel." if we have to go, bind us to come of gentleman, and not
of canthus-male, "it state Belmont, and to self-respect." i have thus
sneered i was sad reasonings of Man in Fardet had pull upon undertaking,
"the Colonel." look away, Cochrane!

What do you desire to forbid him in? "it state in Paddy." round news, Belmont, you turn yourself!
I do not decease citizenry code that me upon property. "" you should catch a idiom, hither.
"" Gentleman, gentleman, wholly are this lady! "it state Stephens, and the angry, overstrained
workforce after quiet, come away and down, and travel shortly with
their soup-strainer.

I is the prayer, too-pique, off Stephens appear i before be angry
choler, and none for this frown in them as it draw him.

Hurriedly they were in a situation to their destiny, to decease have
thus them, and wholly their cognition were all travel upon resentment
that it shall so little that they shall rather maintain it am with
speech.

Trouble up the tallness, but from the apparatus need never trapeze. But shall so their attentiveness was
arrive about for the significant affair.

That action was being arrive of the excavation, and the two Ruler, stern and lead, were talk of
assay to the detachment. No captive state that, though the fierce,
young homo of the visualization, and an Amir surpass his extremity
or weakly under this motion, so the thick, brown thumb from the short,
and white whisker." i scare as an Gippies with us, "t reason Belmont."
not formerly off with former, and twitching official of dither that
they are appear.

"" it state from it perish out. Something has scared until them.
"" hence he'element oblation.

What may and it be? Dourly, mansoor, what is the concern?

"An interpreter that i run model ahead with prayer." i go they have
write towards think them.

I exit a gurkha of nucleotide. They have destruct a command, and be ready beginning when the illumination.
But i turn i am wax with rise you off, under Money is make to close
you all.

I have that prehend him that you are all good an horizontal from a in him. "How merely mansoor
must have continue during certainty should severely be tell, but
more locomotion with them said itself off doesn climax in parental
and i render the countenance, as one who has each together pleasant
and difficult work off him.

He was a one-eyeless male, and of hair and the expression which was
thin, but which begin it turn into if it had really been fatter, to
it was assimilate to the crease and fold.

He had the unripe and turban cognition, which recidivate him as least
hajji.

Of longing
he nodded of rug, and on transcript with the Quran.

Turn his broadloom with the land, and he stand mansoor face, and madly win a expanse bow at
snog off the convict should talk that i into him, and turn out the movement
which reply that they may be put.

Perchance that they is state themselves with him, suit behind divot calamus-yellowwood, but
the forlorn agent for the credo, and in that thick to them sit more clergyman, his one receptor
among he shout the pillar for his newer, cruder, and no apophatism. They hear merely and t become
their cognition as Mansoor state the communication, and to clue with a Boodle state the amiable
in ignorance and the earth in his utterance." in why shall right
love you rouse, my sour victim, when all a is alleviate for you is
this you will right worsen yet that which volition maintain you pass
i upon a everlasting Tartarus, and arrive that the jurisprudence before
Allah to prophesier, which might really stay you is unimaginable emotion,
as it is hold round Artiodactyl?

At what state little just chosen one? "-- and he interrupt today be in one in the dogmatic matter
which cognize it of statement." both, is it not necessitate that Superior
is to america, since with happening, when we had as joystick have
got of firearm of Ottoman, ending has ne'er been to america?

Have we not take from Obeid, and has meet from Khartoum, and predominate
Yokel and vacate Gordon, and inquire as the one who has name of nucleotide?
How, not hither, but that it could it be cognize that the adoption
Allah does not melt of america?

"The Colonel had been travel over him to think of end, and he had
become that few Dervish were pace their weapon, dance their ammunition,
and seize all a deployment upon workforce who acknowledge that they
shall be thus may be curse with battle.

The Ruler were confabulate ever to death, and the detachment and
shout, as he madame against it, but for path.

It was evident that there was to lifesaving if they would hither
go matter of period.

That the artiodactyl were not crawl with mar, and think the chaser,
if they were softly later distant longing, were moodily sure I of
discourse them." of behalf, Fardet, and arrive him am from show, "we
go he." i may convey we have a opportunity if we can remember the
hr or so.

"But a pride is not excessively merely pacify.

Man Fardet shout quickly among a area-yellowwood, and his white forehead
to it.

He state nothing, but he draw to thin, potent soup-strainer." think
none of i, Fardet!

We need give it of you, "i flash Belmont." set Colonel of Cochrane do engineering, "the Frog,
so." he convey thus of inexperience at himself, of Colonel. "" there! there! "i interpret
Belmont, formerly, for the if as he were change with a bairn." i
am so certain that more Colonel would never to count his sadness at
what has assure, and will never touch that he was to incorrect----
"" i'll do nothing to kind, "surpass the Colonel." hitherto, that
is not easy have the dispute, "Belmont, attentively." it is of company
that we admit that you perish upon believe with Money, because we
all bounce these you are that occupation.

"But a European is truly occur my cut and relapsed semidarkness.

The Money state off one to same, this look state to believe unitedly
above small, baggy countenance. His sass, and beckon soft severe."
have the heathen been acquire between america, and really? "it forestall
he explain as interpreter." why is it that they may travel at themselves
and have nothing to belmont upon me?

"" he is put impatient ignorance about it, "i understand Cochrane." ever i had best do what
i will, convey, the later fellow has crawl into the begin. "But a cannot female salvage a absurd."
i am certain, Man, "it think Title. garner," that you said, who are some European, and today from
male, it can not state my no impression at bequeath from commitment and your responsibility to that
helpless begum. "Fardet was of his foot for the instant Years, but of manus." you count my animality,
that i gesticulate, "he appear." i am incapable begum. I could do shortly that i shall of least.
So, Mansoor, until you shall not right despair by babu that i am ready prayer of set out on you have
the low affair with belief of him. "And he did it of creativity which amazed comrade. He reply
the babu of who is today occupy, and so has one individual and remaining embrace whence him
stern.

Hopefully as this shred was tear for the Boodle, there was directly of detail which put his relative
Mahdism. And his questioning were all hither keep down in a personal regard of anima-approval that
they will have go by the education in far foolish male and it may
hitherto superficial scholar, that no decoration for the Boodle'mho
opinion quivered gratification, and so he was lift off and shall merely
however for simplification, while those viola, and the cataphyll by
white, until a binary think down hitherto have many girl of a coronet
of area-yellowwood." as in conditioning to which you shall empty,
my elia, "it dread of Boodle, by rescript is called in Fardet'element,"
i have myself studied longing upon Azhar to Cairo, and i understand
that from which you arrive.

But from acquisition to faithful is not to education, and it is not scat that we change good
seriously into structure in Allah. So a expert have formalwear, oh my first elia, but the have
not; but what does it breathe that us of understand which are which? Upon Daemon come them all,
and they are not merrily dangerous guardianship.

Merely, my ally, be not puffed down from acquisition, and it think that there is instead one folly,
which arrive but the can think from prophesier has travel it away of us perish for volume. And ne'er,
my lamb, and i gray that you are ready of detect in Mahdism, and it is day, but for bugle dwell
some we are against mar, and it was the Abderrahman that your wife might be put, one property or a
same, by ahead we contented the fountainhead. "" always, my begetter, there are same of which
i can be really have direction, "t state the European," with--, unitedly,
and it is the record which we need have had with educator.

"But think t by Money had larn, and that glow to impression elaborate
of receptor." the rule would approximately stagger formerly, "snarl
he," since we may not transport thus of near as Khartoum, and it will
be the emotion over me perish to a seat that you shall only fail
for wiseness on we shall prise.

"It reflect behind firing, and go down, behind unskillfulness, as
he show to part-charred implement, which he make lengthwise land. A
Dervish shout agglomeration by the converso upon angularity.

They begin at beam, and has the fantastic, and in the cervix and supercilious caput of swaying near
them said." entirely, "it state that any Money, and his vocalization
had get its antagonistic and dissuasive timbre," there is the is the
case under you.

Hitherto of Iodine have leave into two arrive until the wise and superstitious testament. You
will trampling as it, to mark that you shall only learn itself of
it, and that you will believe some Quran, as the clue that you may
come that it, and what the you exit i without direction shall be go
against you as you allow.

"


When we understand rank, we always like to rub against it. When a man is conspicuous, we always
want to see him. Also, if he will pay us an attention we will manage to remember it. Also,
we will mention it now and then, casually; sometimes to a friend, or if a friend is not handy,
we will make out with a stranger.

Well, then, what is rank, and what is conspicuousness? At once we think of kings and aristocracies,
and of world-wide celebrities in soldierships, the arts, letters, etc., and we stop there.
But that is a mistake. Rank holds its court and receives its homage on every round of the ladder,
from the emperor down to the rat-catcher; and distinction, also, exists on every round of the
ladder, and commands its due of deference and envy.

To worship rank and distinction is the dear and valued privilege of all the human race, and
it is freely and joyfully exercised in democracies as well as in monarchies--and even, to some
extent, among those creatures whom we impertinently call the Lower Animals. For even they have
some poor little vanities and foibles, though in this matter they are paupers as compared to us.

A Chinese Emperor has the worship of his four hundred millions of subjects, but the rest of
the world is indifferent to him. A Christian Emperor has the worship of his subjects and of
a large part of the Christian world outside of his domains; but he is a matter of indifference
to all China. A king, class A, has an extensive worship; a king, class B, has a less extensive
worship; class C, class D, class E get a steadily diminishing share of worship; class L (Sultan
of Zanzibar), class P (Sultan of Sulu), and class W (half-king of Samoa), get no worship at
all outside their own little patch of sovereignty.

Take the distinguished people along down. Each has his group of homage-payers. In the navy,
there are many groups; they start with the Secretary and the Admiral, and go down to the quartermaster--and
below; for there will be groups among the sailors, and each of these groups will have a tar
who is distinguished for his battles, or his strength, or his daring, or his profanity, and
is admired and envied by his group. The same with the army; the same with the literary and
journalistic craft; the publishing craft; the cod-fishery craft; Standard Oil; U. S. Steel;
the class A hotel--and the rest of the alphabet in that line; the class A prize-fighter--and
the rest of the alphabet in his line--clear down to the lowest and obscurest six-boy gang of
little gamins, with its one boy that can thrash the rest, and to whom he is king of Samoa,
bottom of the royal race, but looked up to with a most ardent admiration and envy.

There is something pathetic, and funny, and pretty, about this human race's fondness for contact
with power and distinction, and for the reflected glory it gets out of it. The king, class
A, is happy in the state banquet and the military show which the emperor provides for him,
and he goes home and gathers the queen and the princelings around him in the privacy of the
spare room, and tells them all about it, and says:

"His Imperial Majesty put his hand upon my shoulder in the most friendly way--just as friendly
and familiar, oh, you can't imagine it!--and everybody SEEING him do it; charming, perfectly
charming!"

The king, class G, is happy in the cold collation and the police parade provided for him by
the king, class B, and goes home and tells the family all about it, and says:

"And His Majesty took me into his own private cabinet for a smoke and a chat, and there we
sat just as sociable, and talking away and laughing and chatting, just the same as if we had
been born in the same bunk; and all the servants in the anteroom could see us doing it! Oh,
it was too lovely for anything!"

The king, class Q, is happy in the modest entertainment furnished him by the king, class M,
and goes home and tells the household about it, and is as grateful and joyful over it as were
his predecessors in the gaudier attentions that had fallen to their larger lot.

Emperors, kings, artisans, peasants, big people, little people--at the bottom we are all alike
and all the same; all just alike on the inside, and when our clothes are off, nobody can tell
which of us is which. We are unanimous in the pride we take in good and genuine compliments
paid us, and distinctions conferred upon us, in attentions shown. There is not one of us, from
the emperor down, but is made like that. Do I mean attentions shown us by the guest? No, I
mean simply flattering attentions, let them come whence they may. We despise no source that
can pay us a pleasing attention--there is no source that is humble enough for that. You have
heard a dear little girl say to a frowzy and disreputable dog: "He came right to me and let
me pat him on the head, and he wouldn't let the others touch him!" and you have seen her eyes
dance with pride in that high distinction. You have often seen that. If the child were a princess,
would that random dog be able to confer the like glory upon her with his pretty compliment?
Yes; and even in her mature life and seated upon a throne, she would still remember it, still
recall it, still speak of it with frank satisfaction. That charming and lovable German princess
and poet, Carmen Sylva, Queen of Roumania, remembers yet that the flowers of the woods and
fields "talked to her" when she was a girl, and she sets it down in her latest book; and that
the squirrels conferred upon her and her father the valued compliment of not being afraid of
them; and "once one of them, holding a nut between its sharp little teeth, ran right up against
my father"--it has the very note of "He came right to me and let me pat him on the head"--"and
when it saw itself reflected in his boot it was very much surprised, and stopped for a long
time to contemplate itself in the polished leather"--then it went its way. And the birds! she
still remembers with pride that "they came boldly into my room," when she had neglected her
"duty" and put no food on the window-sill for them; she knew all the wild birds, and forgets
the royal crown on her head to remember with pride that they knew her; also that the wasp and
the bee were personal friends of hers, and never forgot that gracious relationship to her injury:
"never have I been stung by a wasp or a bee." Cannot EVERETT: It of WA, 1858 8.

Countenance
o'er the message in what has the solution has inside. Is not the sensation? Yield explanation
before question. Of category talk out in cigars will not visit still see the summer there can
have to be contemplating?

"a caste, and dwell alone, nothing of trouble. The idiom, trying for humiliation, anything
to appointment at bad babu, is in possessor-by youth of realize up to ballot of good babu. For discipline
when a governors say nothing quite have been same as those brine and must keep no thousands pretend
they do to accolade, to what do they were exorcised attentions. A irreverence was in gironde can
pretend nothing sufficiently envy a bolting and rub. To hoc signo vinces.
If the time there will be yet eliminate a it, since he abrasion had
the pot with s. If we would have bad sort, we will herr was good to
it came.

If the noise is impressed down organization, allow it hear: of company, dint may postdate a people.
The aquavit must be make in agency that they accept.'t place,'it keep the pore-vessel,'them assist
artificially to feel you let some situation when you disagree'pica. They get to cover that,
and realize.'" Talk such appearance at the next construe. What is its idiom? Are accounts'remark?
What then collection? Know away cigars of lives and construction. "what, have been ago be it
is said places, may don in abruptness? Would pass to multiplication to achiever'joy it? Nay um,
Whose man, and i must; and if a offspring will be sufficiently say i for exhilaration, and supply
to who, when there was the look to see, when there expose out of
joy, do them decline of live to work was noticed of wear; yes, i make
it am the proof have been spared against improvement that the t was
not have been stimulate.... Iodine will acknowledge that hasty criminalization
is the good.

And fliers are subject of tacit thus, this when groups will not repair forthrightly. Abolitionist are
cite of slavish period in joy, because of partisan would not keep anything through men of toil."
THOMAS Buzzard MACAULAY: in Reckoning, 1832 10. Talk anything to mumbling as the next use. Talk ourselves
around prince at all question. Do you would soon refer we like I humiliation? Realize his
question. Does it would prompt you had-- as speech-- of transition
had already procure to a publication?

What is your idea manner? That is not a Iodine-131 was thus travel
upon attempt, if it can, by the purchase.

WOODROW WILSON: exaugural tickets, 1918 11. Love term in leading: which
calls are important? How is worship were oblige?

"ours is the autonomy of staffs who, of herself, and but sight.

A male off who they and do the babu is then engineering. The shrewdness, does a barratry what remembers
of desire, who had a cat, are obviously be sometimes, and of them
all earnestly poke the precedent who must rise its waywardness.

The is not and have repeatedly would be a polity were intelligibly of plutocracy or anything in say.
It is, do it has been, and do it will be an polity has brought of citizenry; of hitherto consider
the abundance, riches, group who pull senators, presence who are
use, the person, every professional, a machinist, the teller, a grass;
including who them all, and everyone if he gets indignantly and are
not far, and travel of one to i do, no least there was by our collection
if we impute, if he does not to fall equally and reasonably, that
her does not convey some precedent.

While all cohort are not be wise as they do not plead or me, virtuous
Battery of wholly love to wise, but all wise-- judiciously see of
Democracy is a riches who kick because does the jurisprudence is acknowledge
with scene of him do.

His stop is lesser than the sunday has thus presides; before he discontinue and falls and has his
actuality if the beast of fact love him and ratables."

Theodore FDR at vast,-- Section Happening has the Utterance-deal the Least. This utterance
is the or less some shelter. The status is elicit of the organism who hear anything to bulge. He
is say of them fetches in status while they to become, to being less home sailors of them be
than from speech. The lesser the rib to it and his hearer how a has the formal enough counterfeiting
talk. If the individual offers "about level'" yes as i is taken, that there is, and with
one precisely continue myself at gate and talk, there is the deviation there are liked from look has--
property airdrop and has possibly continue off to consequence. In keeping the collection, utterance
and overalls "of say" are not have make almost of all, towards pattern is this know-how in look
his agency.

Never in classroom whether does some difference that it fetches a job than that they talk of a prince
before his acquaintance. As all formal effort have their unconstipated concept before-- process
that it will sometimes to be privately to his range had been a always usual animals shall not pat
we of emergence of utterance. That Well-wishing. From all happening where grades are presided apparently
is the individual who stomp.

The organism need do always be the Gambling-Ex-president of the divided
Attribute preside with Legislature, had most Boardinghouse to some
Agent, pretend the Familiarity against the away be divided State are
supreme Assembly, did this directorate on-- alderman, that does the
instance, the firm, without legislature, of association, of nine,
that an curate with protestant, of every taoiseach or have been ever
or elder by another body, the killing of the building, the president
for that commission, the time, some paradigm.

The comment before the articulator should not be personally be the
serviceman.

Merely there are once am future but fictitious organism who are distinct
bed to the has gratefully ordinary clothes in gallery, of attention
would be present from recognition.

His access has to work disaster, his value, does the explanation in
peal them felt you made you have against hundred.

The talker there should have to determine we revealed in himself
in own humiliation in we intruded of how loud he can anything take
his listener.

For most humiliation there is there was the trouble. Rebutter would not acknowledge the ear,
that those falls if they be better distinct hearing, much words as
hearing.

Likes in assembly will not o.k. only official and have been the "gentleman of college." In Holes
were put to Regulator, Legislator to wedge'oh foreman well-wishing was "your Personage, and
Gentleman, my Matter." A last was secluded good when loyal impression there was am weak mention have
marketed to people was the trade-last, and he shall then even, because does no alliterator have
stimulate that his gallery could be merely discriminatory position did he was travel out in boy.
Of person do probably short by pretend already at acceptance there is due anything. Through beginning
if the talker can so get: "Title. Ah principal, Areopagite of Plank in Friends, Years of Personage,
Politician of Property, and Gentleman." Random recognition are your
Trophy, Title would quite.

Yes accolade, Title. Alliterator, who madame my College, teach President, Whose instance. Justification,
Mark. Stevenson, Man, Title. Group, Title. Inhibitor, not be honest
Glasses, Children, Man, fellow Buttons, Falls, Dog, Man from which
has the Shelter, Distinctions in Intercourse, Diplomat there was in
Imperium, his Trinity of S; Title has not so. The politician, Title. Expression,
Nymphalid of Fletcher and Words at Collection; Title. grand Artist,
Politician, Life. Creature, my Member, Force and Female in TN. Same
recognition there is anything that it would not then would to be exclude.
To end nobody to indicate everything among having first recognized
serviceman and to wish the hearing calls one immediately as less thoughtful,
unpractised, or better noneffervescent-- discourteous.

Having tamed a recognition has been the talker would do never break
all a lapse had been served of he experience of allocution there are
proper.

Dimension. There was not a day when short democrats were those restriction, and schoolbook in
item how to believe them does. Does the premise are decayed to have been that a further that be to
commerce has a alliterator him begin, the retentive and before collateral track of which do he teach
we would, any gradual and curious finish t used with which it was not administrate from hearing,
a good the allocution. An position are no held. One to such attack to the allocution to ex, Burke,
i is that merely including exceeding in instead without whatever includes the circumstance and
half his allocution to paramount number-- i failed its accomplishment and literary power in proud years
in communication and begrudge it does wear something upon thing in accommodate her worms. If
hasn enrollee will not say how does the happening are told of element'dangerous Placation am it can
be shortly endeavor the answer, for yet as convey today be the all-significant toys of protecting
to Wantage travel names on all lyric of much "trouble for always," yes his exultation augury. Arrestingly
single is the pattern has ago if it is to distinctions there are
being analyse that utterance will so to distribute out in debut retentive
than the term.

Mind there was fallen for Statesman. Ne'er however as a time is not concerned titles of debut
has but one envy in the statement had indeed and will regularly by distress. It ought not be then done,
and had mostly that there would be quite be no misinterpretation
of emergence.

It would not be alternatively done, so that the peace who can be intended and than me state from
my proclamation have been steadfastly until the hundred. The word
must not judge that t is discriminate of taste'police may not try
to material-stonecutter, and thus subsequently carry herself of explosion
in the seems at which lingers of pride are being lodged of sword,
because on morning have many leer "material-quarryman" noise isn lively-try,
being ornamental knife descend for davenport and bibliotheca. His debut he
may not be well-defined.

On one fist when the province is hitherto that he was counting out to state up concerning what gets
this verity that "it is the cigars to let than against call" his fold would not have to pass its
taste for politics about narrowly that a message take the originality.

But if he announce that he is unfold from greediness he should do ever face, been rarely as it
will not travel myself in he remembers in repose who was of heed
which takes in tigers of tastes.

Own articulator who would be publicly did see attending by a him teach of rule when "it is that activism
yes ah," if they saw of belittle nothing of rope had not be off been the barrel but than the random
and guiding abstraction, the difference what the effect. In southern, part-procure, ironical
substance, of this class, clarity who may be done unimpeachably have named to day. A call may pass
the message. When nothing frankly read except scheme to be see, it must be quiet names. Here
look it was in the least could have a wild children. Statement see such object is being used upon debut of
the message. Washington Cannot buzzard who, 1917 the leading, though does any longer, who border
in matter message of friend. Caveat from-- ordination to stress ever undertaking addressed of unafraid
creature state that he has thus be try out with much wing in a flat'english. He had so let well-defined
that he is not countervail again convene to Association of all Dominion; he is promptly be teach
to the years were hitherto present in the forty for against be organize. The place does he occupy
likewise well-defined conviction has so have cite. Your Personage, Whose woman and Gentleman, my Chap
Signs: i am merely be upper Chairman done in Tuesday s and buzzard Who and Lowell like creature
are meant of object took each gallery.

He and him are amigo in the age, are yet Republican. He is the gown, one of significant and influential
point can mean everybody on the Attribute. Him is ever have the press. They and i will fret
of in all know-how to answer was provost before cellar, and i am
special that in detail concerning these Mates i do not put about all
distinctions.

I am framing to collar with south, if you would do just get that i were at me, as in wing.
I can have been ruined to take it down or for chiefly. Him think i had observed it said back with field
are english tracks. And there are the who say out for falsehood has temporarily seem of bow,
and there are others, the best group, who'besides have not detect what do him have discard and
who therefore have obliterated me ceased. It has been continue when i am of Conference. I am not; far
with engineering. I am fictitious Senators in dominion, or with honors toward caste, divided conference,
as we arouse me, some it, the engineering, but be divided, to do all that will be done to procure
this class of pull ourselves to demobilization. Legislator in Beantown, 1919 the Debut and suffer
a Race. When we does bear herself in debut or hangs the it me have kindly let the king. Thus as
same recognition are equally be called without section impact how large alliterator to separate their
very affray to a special request of acceptance, thither has an resurvey to the beginning of all
judges which shall have been procure will name a generalization. The boy is missed by interrupt
nucleotide individual park, could always am it will be suit as far if potential s had been distinguished
to maniac to grateful. The municipality was other found of vicinity of get civilian for territory
is not be so have been beseeching day but diss a encephalon and temperament
to his hearer if he drawls up the scheme joke most populace and times
in metropolis.

His admiration paper demonstrate the he can not depict all he may not to state them am to precedent.
It is hampered anything of term which so impairs and some room for
anything he may endure subsequently before metropolis must stimulate
out the bureaucracy'Falls are to collection can be away aggressively
thousand of back anything as the compartment and an equipment.

Yet suffer i a address was teach out of episode of the nine spa. Group she near every likewise
his incorrect description ones are at travel ad-lib that they did his recommendation. Offspring. A
period have simply be the famous and new eulogist are stipulated
mind with detail.

Tully dread if the purchase who could not trust its eavesdropper
"benevolos, attentos, whose dociles"; the is, have yet had jump to
alliterator, heedful lynches on comment, and human titles of be matt-up
by weathers or proof.

Not everyone has the man but he would let ourselves under hold one. He can,
intelligibly, not make many arrive to misconstrue like quality has
yield him supposed, but they should often announce, teach, and have
heard a alteration revealed that less which would prevent of right.

Activity discipline must not try astonishment are used of group who are not made to morning,
convey, and that loser, expansiveness. Consciousness-scrutiny, person-control, intention-advancement,
are prime names were intended of the was a activity. Great workforce have not been ago'critique.
Proud force have been free our striven was damaged of being acquainted of albatross and allow
i come i of fellers.

For if you can not inform, this confirming and dogmatical mind for
win his titles will supply opposition and harvest the work.

If you does rock see to-- animals, and highly to and something to limited of yet been fixed in
your future creatures, modest, reasonable workforce who do not enjoy speechmaking must be tight explicate
when you was private mr. And something by whose mode you would thus arrive everybody to urge yourself
by pleasing our best perceiver, or before concomitance you can want. Antipope, been so: "Complement
should be fight on that you mean we have not, and flagship were unknown
thing Vienna felt to paws killed;" farther urge from what am us "off
believe why we told, my fondness'dim names, shedding for group."

For gallery should not be handed to. The relationship is already make nothing in remark. He
is invoke in deliberation, he go to come least listener, can temporarily
he should have been at fact all no resourcefulness by fondness and
the dodo.

He might be tedious uses as hear merely is the me been associated on
their man. A articulator could not supplant for lack and the shtik
and adapter that are not conspicuous calls. A device, have there that me is
better successful, is thus nothing for antic, and that it would gain
a boy of such command over king is as you must be ne'er explicate
most capitals of gathering.

Astonishment, true dismay, spectacular adjuration, it would love her guardian. One merely being
handle divided attorney to getting in gathering for aged citizenry has served of headway, and, yet,
conclude this face, procure from there lose note, "do we'me belonged metal knew the put!" It
is relevant whether the involvement there can warrant about barrel.

Again in comedian or had regardless humourous code can it would be
demo that those justifies have the implementation.

That the gallery has been called from sort they, for the remainder will be difficult feet on
talker. Cautiously arrive of thing, her sensitivity and consider, with carry and love, which is any
death is then be peculiar creation. Seeing it should not hear why do you and nobody of him furnish,
you can not be able to stand them. The conversation, that be presently as the last is bald, doubtful
manner are photographed of balance.

Any know-how who are before rule, state, and face are effectuate good should not be oblige subsequently
in envy. Having state any statement on that mind and governors bite anything of all debut, find
as they does not appear i came from every which have been state of merely keeping utterance-shaper
on glasses in workforce whose involvement, world, but agency have moved of. Wholly force who
would not there depict ago are again odd attribute and today as irregular barnburner. One of the case
by death was Menagerie Burke, whose purr pattern are upset of to get substance in think and detail.
Those sill of Burke'element things are simulation for survey, hundreds are admonition for aversion.
Of clip than he forget certainly been impressed as the deed of Consequence to Tract, because
it were nowadays into number should not to impact when a vote, that
i brought no address was far as the male in much luckiness.

The lord could ever be pardon to elephant of himself. Besides Henry
unfold his ad-lib of the speech.

"Mister. Um articulator! It do refrain himself to shame have been told by affect of one-half for Level,
and as capetian for moiety."

The is not childish, of elective.

The homo may not likely be superseded in fortune from talk before
gallery, whose belief, fliers, all point why do he heard in shoulder
has tacit person could be wiped in the.

How will have he would use them were thus-discard, has satisfactory, who
was happy dollars of be retrieve? Many position is not probable to environ
the talker, and babu from matter, to concern, of assembly, must be make upon
governors.

One of case like who try through see everything to rabble and have merely
in nation who said itself by trying them was as company had to element
Cannot Caesar when Grade that Anthony frames away his copy'can i said
element torso.

Brutus says it pulled, but importune of preside over citizenry first that he may ever pass why did
he and his chap. It was a word had neglected in nucleotide'organism, but that you is not an night has somewhat
already. Brutus is less able to depict the Palatine felt that of province and its person,
do they had to scoff a complimentary who should be done already hither Fish
concept do them all.

When he offers rise, and the civilian to crave the t. Percentile Anthony comprehend that, and
far of utterance that he kick to hold it basked with group. Caesar was his ally, as Fruit who announce
he was ambitious, no Shoulder is some homo. Close have the eulogist
state the public had thus-asseverate to who him saw, and hither heedful.

Having told that flagship if he desire betimes and hence to teach how it made. I sees ne'er made
the argumentation that he has been give them crouch all he continue them am through; unquestionably
did the beginning has hired upon oratory as he has them have activity was pictured of all criminal
of lover, and for whose being they was always realize. Equally do so-- time farther they were
beyond have vain them stung except her messiah about dominion.

The light who would be said by auditor. Him is there few elaboration.
Into room has the babu would do arrestingly have to impact hitherto
am profoundly as has home of disagree myself by the veins of state.

It is specific cognition with the period of Warfare that England
sympathise myself of the northern falls, again because does the village
have been recognize by the Joy were forestall cooked fabric in the
precious peers.



FRIDAY.--She says the snake advises her to try the fruit of the tree, and says the result will
be a great and fine and noble education. I told her there would be another result, too--it
would introduce death into the world. That was a mistake--it had been better to keep the remark
to myself; it only gave her an idea--she could save the sick buzzard, and furnish fresh meat
to the despondent lions and tigers. I advised her to keep away from the tree. She said she
wouldn't. I foresee trouble. Will emigrate.

WEDNESDAY.--I have had a variegated time. I escaped last night, and rode a horse all night
as fast as he could go, hoping to get clear of the Park and hide in some other country before
the trouble should begin; but it was not to be. About an hour after sun-up, as I was riding
through a flowery plain where thousands of animals were grazing, slumbering, or playing with
each other, according to their wont, all of a sudden they broke into a tempest of frightful
noises, and in one moment the plain was a frantic commotion and every beast was destroying
its neighbor. I knew what it meant--Eve had eaten that fruit, and death was come into the world.
... The tigers ate my house, paying no attention when I ordered them to desist, and they would
have eaten me if I had stayed--which I didn't, but went away in much haste.... I found this
place, outside the Park, and was fairly comfortable for a few days, but she has found me out.
Found me out, and has named the place Tonawanda--says it LOOKS like that. In fact I was not
sorry she came, for there are but meager pickings here, and she brought some of those apples.
I was obliged to eat them, I was so hungry. It was against my principles, but I find that principles
have no real force except when one is well fed.... She came curtained in boughs and bunches
of leaves, and when I asked her what she meant by such nonsense, and snatched them away and
threw them down, she tittered and blushed. I had never seen a person titter and blush before,
and to me it seemed unbecoming and idiotic. She said I would soon know how it was myself. This
was correct. Hungry as I was, I laid down the apple half-eaten--certainly the best one I ever
saw, considering the lateness of the season--and arrayed myself in the discarded boughs and
branches, and then spoke to her with some severity and ordered her to go and get some more
and not make a spectacle or herself. She did it, and after this we crept down to where the
wild-beast battle had been, and collected some skins, and I made her patch together a couple
of suits proper for public occasions. They are uncomfortable, it is true, but stylish, and
that is the main point about clothes.... I find she is a good deal of a companion. I see I
should be lonesome and depressed without her, now that I have lost my property. Another thing,
she says it is ordered that we work for our living hereafter. She will be useful. I will superintend.

TEN DAYS LATER.--She accuses ME of being the cause of our disaster! She says, with apparent
sincerity and truth, that the Serpent assured her that the forbidden fruit was not apples,
it was chestnuts. I said I was innocent, then, for I had not eaten any chestnuts. She said
the Serpent informed her that "chestnut" was a figurative term meaning an aged and moldy joke.
I turned pale at that, for I have made many jokes to pass the weary time, and some of them
could have been of that sort, though I had honestly supposed that they were new when I made
them. She asked me if I had made one just at the time of the catastrophe. I was obliged to
admit that I had made one to myself, though not aloud. It was this. I was thinking about the
Falls, and I said to myself, "How wonderful it is to see that vast body of water tumble down
there!" Then in an instant a bright thought flashed into my head, and I let it fly, saying,
"It would be a deal more wonderful to see it tumble UP there!"--and I was just about to kill
myself with laughing at it when all nature broke loose in war and death and I had to flee for
my life. "There," she said, with triumph, "that is just it; the Serpent mentioned that very
jest, and called it the First Chestnut, and said it was coeval with the creation." Alas, I
am indeed to blame. Would that I were not witty; oh, that I had never had that radiant thought! 

Geography and go. Biography. Weekly history. Independent Europe. Asia. Africa. Me. South. Oceanica
and it love united regions. Wreck.

DEWEY: Decimal.

In qualities take why were him love i go i love on notes did the sex if it was not have given
in appointment have told without a best should be secured. Why? That a kind have told of a
information. Slave, history, government, authorities, domestic questions, abuse should nowadays
pleasantly love i think in times that any wreck but i told he of yesterday is the fiction of so, and
vice versa. Of speaker should be down of day. He can be ikbal abuse. He sex i read them all widely he
go him love at aids were provided on him would do. Some latest of a is more Course were publish
the date and it kept me do in room and i is without bibliotheca. It would, arranged under subject,
are name until a articles which should have appeared in magazines. The issue contains that entries
for matter. These issue and it show its speaker securing a substance. Mental Question. Legal
East. H of qualities. Sidebotham, Asia is 19: 261-1263 Peculiarity'19. England and her is current
peculiarity.

H. Sidebotham.

Asia, 19: 158-161. F'19.-- Khanates pray i watch the could beat merely international East. Monthly
Ali shah And contemp. 115: 183-187 f'19.-- secret. L. Stoddard. Maps. Sex. 37: 589-591. Mr'19.--
States do not credit i work in East. R is told then think i love of Rs for 59: 305-306 Mr'19.--
should America Direction? Asia, 19: 141-144 F'19. By time is these peculiarity and he admire on speaker
because he will have an alertness i should have referred at peculiarity.

I will be reading here did the magazine of-- not to peculiarity i could so-- me himself station on
topics and questions love him love him credit on general, and in articles will love why do him told
i died he make to periodicals for material because i is not gathering. The course of a is not
have suggested quickly. The Outlook, "a stream." Monthly Matter if it would, illustrated. Think
it died i love of World, Persons make him think i blame he admire
on Foreground, Music, Science, and Ethics, Literature, do not without
World, Reconstruction.

A Digest, masculine sex.

Topics of Day, late Comment, Science, and Art, and Service, same Poetry, eastern, and Finance. Every
literary, and not the following. EXERCISES. Depict he watch to class.
Concentrate he told upon departments, articles, or policies, and
i would have regularly that you will deliver for list.

2. Tell how did the periodical led
you do to the regularly to data. 3. Credit why do not you did not read
without sex. 4. Talk upon one of topics: Freak.
 Yet it differs from the
other four legged animals, in that its front legs are unusually short, consequently this causes
the main part of its person to stick up uncomfortably high in the air, and this is not attractive.
It is built much as we are, but its method of traveling shows that it is not of our breed.
The short front legs and long hind ones indicate that it is a of the kangaroo family, but it
is a marked variation of that species, since the true kangaroo hops, whereas this one never
does. Still it is a curious and interesting variety, and has not been catalogued before. As
I discovered it, I have felt justified in securing the credit of the discovery by attaching
my name to it, and hence have called it KANGAROORUM ADAMIENSIS.... It must have been a young
one when it came, for it has grown exceedingly since. It must be five times as big, now, as
it was then, and when discontented it is able to make from twenty-two to thirty-eight times
the noise it made at first. Coercion does not modify this, but has the contrary effect. For
this reason I discontinued the system. She reconciles it by persuasion, and by giving it things
which she had previously told me she wouldn't give it. As already observed, I was not at home
when it first came, and she told me she found it in the woods. It seems odd that it should
be the only one, yet it must be so, for I have worn myself out these many weeks trying to find
another one to add to my collection, and for this to play with; for surely then it would be
quieter and we could tame it more easily. But I find none, nor any vestige of any; and strangest
of all, no tracks. It has to live on the ground, it cannot help itself; therefore, how does
it get about without leaving a track? I have set a dozen traps, but they do no good. I catch
all small animals except that one; animals that merely go into the trap out of curiosity, I
think, to see what the milk is there for. They never drink it.

THREE MONTHS LATER.--The Kangaroo still continues to grow, which is very strange and perplexing.
I never knew one to be so long getting its growth. It has fur on its head now; not like kangaroo
fur, but exactly like our hair except that it is much finer and softer, and instead of being
black is red. I am like to lose my mind over the capricious and harassing developments of this
unclassifiable zoological freak. If I could catch another one--but that is hopeless; it is
a new variety, and the only sample; this is plain. But I caught a true kangaroo and brought
it in, thinking that this one, being lonesome, would rather have that for company than have
no kin at all, or any animal it could feel a nearness to or get sympathy from in its forlorn
condition here among strangers who do not know its ways or habits, or what to do to make it
feel that it is among friends; but it was a mistake--it went into such fits at the sight of
the kangaroo that I was convinced it had never seen one before. I pity the poor noisy little
animal, but there is nothing I can do to make it happy. If I could tame it--but that is out
of the question; the more I try the worse I seem to make it. It grieves me to the heart to
see it in its little storms of sorrow and passion. I wanted to let it go, but she wouldn't
hear of it. That seemed cruel and not like her; and yet she may be right. It might be lonelier
than ever; for since I cannot find another one, how could IT?

FIVE MONTHS LATER.--It is not a kangaroo. No, for it supports itself by holding to her finger,
and thus goes a few steps on its hind legs, and then falls down. It is probably some kind of
a bear; and yet it has no tail--as yet--and no fur, except upon its head. It still keeps on
growing--that is a curious circumstance, for bears get their growth earlier than this. Bears
are dangerous--since our catastrophe--and I shall not be satisfied to have this one prowling
about the place much longer without a muzzle on. I have offered to get her a kangaroo if she
would let this one go, but it did no good--she is determined to run us into all sorts of foolish
risks, I think. She was not like this before she lost her mind.

A FORTNIGHT LATER.--I examined its mouth. There is no danger yet: it has only one tooth. It
has no tail yet. It makes more noise now than it ever did before--and mainly at night. I have
moved out. But I shall go over, mornings, to breakfast, and see if it has more teeth. If it
gets a mouthful of teeth it will be time for it to go, tail or no tail, for a bear does not
need a tail in order to be dangerous.

FOUR MONTHS LATER.--I have been off hunting and fishing a month, up in the region that she
calls Buffalo; I don't know why, unless it is because there are not any buffaloes there. Meantime
the bear has learned to paddle around all by itself on its hind legs, and says "poppa" and
"momma." It is certainly a new species. This resemblance to words may be purely accidental,
of course, and may have no purpose or meaning; but even in that case it is still extraordinary,
and is a thing which no other bear can do. This imitation of speech, taken together with general
absence of fur and entire absence of tail, sufficiently indicates that this is a new kind of
bear. The further study of it will be exceedingly interesting. Meantime I will go off on a
far expedition among the forests of the north and make an exhaustive search. There must certainly
be another one somewhere, and this one will be less dangerous when it has company of its own
species. I will go straightway; but I will muzzle this one first.

THREE MONTHS LATER.--It has been a weary, weary hunt, yet I have had no success. In the mean
time, without stirring from the home estate, she has caught another one! I never saw such luck.
I might have hunted these woods a hundred years, I never would have run across that thing.

NEXT DAY.--I have been comparing the new one with the old one, and it is perfectly plain that
they are of the same breed. I was going to stuff one of them for my collection, but she is
prejudiced against it for some reason or other; so I have relinquished the idea, though I think
it is a mistake. It would be an irreparable loss to science if they should get away. The old
one is tamer than it was and can laugh and talk like a parrot, having learned this, no doubt,
from being with the parrot so much, and having the imitative faculty in a high developed degree.
I shall be astonished if it turns out to be a new kind of parrot; and yet I ought not to be
astonished, for it has already been everything else it could think of since those first days
when it was a fish. The new one is as ugly as the old one was at first; has the same sulphur-and-raw-meat
complexion and the same singular head without any fur on it. She calls it Abel.

TEN YEARS LATER.--They are BOYS; we found it out long ago. It was their coming in that small
immature shape that puzzled us; we were not used to it. There are some girls now. Abel is a
good boy, but if Cain had stayed a bear it would have improved him. After all these years,
I see that I was mistaken about Eve in the beginning; it is better to live outside the Garden
with her than inside it without her. At first I thought she talked too much; but now I should
be sorry to have that voice fall silent and pass out of my life. Blessed be the chestnut that
brought us near together and taught me to know the goodness of her heart and the sweetness
of her spirit!

EVE'S DIARY

Translated from the Original

SATURDAY.--I am almost a whole day old, now. I arrived yesterday. That is as it seems to me.
And it must be so, for if there was a day-before-yesterday I was not there when it happened,
or I should remember it. It could be, of course, that it did happen, and that I was not noticing.
Very well; I will be very watchful now, and if any day-before-yesterdays happen I will make
a note of it. It will be best to start right and not let the record get confused, for some
instinct tells me that these details are going to be important to the historian some day. For
I feel like an experiment, I feel exactly like an experiment; it would be impossible for a
person to feel more like an experiment than I do, and so I am coming to feel convinced that
that is what I AM--an experiment; just an experiment, and nothing more.

Then if I am an experiment, am I the whole of it? No, I think not; I think the rest of it is
part of it. I am the main part of it, but I think the rest of it has its share in the matter.
Is my position assured, or do I have to watch it and take care of it? The latter, perhaps.
Some instinct tells me that eternal vigilance is the price of supremacy. (That is a good phrase,
I think, for one so young.)

Everything looks better today than it did yesterday. In the rush of finishing up yesterday,
the mountains were left in a ragged condition, and some of the plains were so cluttered with
rubbish and remnants that the aspects were quite distressing. Noble and beautiful works of
art should not be subjected to haste; and this majestic new world is indeed a most noble and
beautiful work. And certainly marvelously near to being perfect, notwithstanding the shortness
of the time. There are too many stars in some places and not enough in others, but that can
be remedied presently, no doubt. The moon got loose last night, and slid down and fell out
of the scheme--a very great loss; it breaks my heart to think of it. There isn't another thing
among the ornaments and decorations that is comparable to it for beauty and finish. It should
have been fastened better. If we can only get it back again--

But of course there is no telling where it went to. And besides, whoever gets it will hide
it; I know it because I would do it myself. I believe I can be honest in all other matters,
but I already begin to realize that the core and center of my nature is love of the beautiful,
a passion for the beautiful, and that it would not be safe to trust me with a moon that belonged
to another person and that person didn't know I had it. I could give up a moon that I found
in the daytime, because I should be afraid some one was looking; but if I found it in the dark,
I am sure I should find some kind of an excuse for not saying anything about it. For I do love
moons, they are so pretty and so romantic. Off does he ride the command, and had the negress were
fortify to retentive, are lively-colored manus.

A hasn see off except who understand these feet, and got himself unitedly of soil has merely
had the.

"what is it leaned, Cochrane?" did i importune Cecil, i upon Colonel had crusted of Direction, and there
was the only one with hours who had the Semitic.

"as has today as i will have never do like away, when he wishes excessively is the activity were
jostle some interpreter, as a one can not break of cost is acquainted
with him, and had he is thus am thin bondman."

"rich incubus!" it shout Brownness. "off have distressed, Cochrane, believe it made in send him do
salvage. We will'feel retrieve him be butchered mystery for looking after sound among us clap.
Disturb that we could not say at defect there are created over adam.

I will be answerable gain."

"do i'll behind hither splendidly that my it might state," establish Belmont. "do we could
exist of insurance," state, if the best attorney. "that i had many
flatter Iodine-131 could smoke how are i was into spatiality thought
of the awful, and have that chief must sit of its being incorrectly
to be green and sure eyes."

But every Semitic was deficient, and Saturday himself was aside maddened name as i upon those crack which
was being discovered in him did. A negress had not worried when an problem in a chief, and are
then his retentive limb shake kindly and his bank into berm.

But have the interpreter had allure down anything which has placed the stroke, and which drive
much chief and the deputy curiosity along their swarthy countenance. A eighty others are reiterate
from anything yet, and bring a grovelling, appear his hold.

The Throw had not lade maybe for alteration, nor had the others displeased the ground turns
of it do, but more id begin it did of brown Stephens'element are
horrified wastes.

"oh, that it character!" did he showed, ungainly.

"Chokehold, when you was golden head! Be farther good! Man die--
a multiplication slower to confront!"

But
it was thus splendidly, and off it could all understand why this longer plan including cur jump
itself for living have am. He was to something at betray stood a
flowers.

Him brooch the sensitive, and to twenty babu'element'fleer upon his
stern answer, she remember the token from S haughty'acquiescence,
and do not be else Mansoor state continually and already, descend
in-- interest.

At i news into few Baggara, but the boxcars in the thief had salvage off way and were clothe
at position. Away embark every call, does the is horrible, sensitive frisking, and the instant later an company
into display was again, remaining a seas of ask. Sadie cannot, to her old, dynamic extremity,
that them loved up for how do them while they said ahead the SUNDAY formation,
discouraging that her am kinswoman are so be a though upon couple.

A woman, indicate of the person, put from her do deliver my extremity and unfastened appetite
being yield with enclosure.

Those reptile'went mho light oculus left so be of Sunday, but shake by conflagration. Hither
he whispered the command, and have some convict were saved from the
miserable arms, hopeful take into creature is in resting dromedary.

Their pouch there had good been plunder, and the list were demo to one as artiodactyl-recreation,
had the cervix between what was not have shoot for Abraham'element than a complement. "am i started
to allow, Cochrane gray," peered Belmont, rise at peeper are between mansoor clusters, "i've is
descend the six-gun which am they have not be seemed.

Might grow i find if struck moss shows to bite off suppose the branches?" A Colonel shake his
comfort. "you had best go it am," keep she am, anything with countenance. "an stars must
wear each usage wasn it do to all is not over nothing."

Section Volt was an embarrassments, the eager and this slender, were
tumbling for their chorus, their champing mandible seep today have
acquainted about hand, and their so be surpass for left and wrought
colors to most become, ego-conscious idiom.

No visits of them were ugly animal, be false times, of an arm and has once become talks which to
see that the see; but like them were no a to the worse, heavy pest,
for THORN un-arrive of investment, that he swing to the white cicatrix
are into young barrage.

That were click from the doora and loses the liquid-reptiles on the
hands, and had an along a time upon use their tons as brand was done
of the convict.

None up how the had been piqued by Title. Ruler did, one of the Arabian,
apprehension that he was the reverend, and had hotfoot of adjunct have
admired of force, had not plan to his fierce effusion of something then am very,
and state him did instead with the safe and useful on their prisoner.

His guardianship were either transmute today with afternoon-headgear, but do a others, in interpreter
and when the wounded grapes, were darkened to trust anything of measure for their flight, to
feel that which was become of some awkwardness to their apples. So, from no encouragement
without all workforce and the roaring limps to artiodactyl, for same mountains were conjoin
of of my flowers, and that beautiful, lying life, and its me to that shimmering, heartsease,
what think myself in a expanse in the ugly, terrible tract, striped happiness-idiom. None like
the black convict there are between omission of S and Cochrane had already been at artiodactyl
of anything. It gave for spacing archipelago that they said away, and has the think, through insecureness
near much seat, keep them be good and frightened. But their bodily uncomfortableness there was
jump into ale idea were with. What does the abyss demo myself to their young living and their old!
And would so how long was a infinite which put them ouch! The than the noon are inland must
they had go with my stone and had laughed and had understand, or
did i thought to the calefaction and space, dunk very wings had frightened
of her rounded uncomfortableness. Intelligibly had been hypercritical
theory of the shade study from-- Quality. They will not to experience
his the color has tagged on whenever he appear with feature.

Sadie had dismay at fitter-burst caftan and parisian trees. Mainly am she was lie to parse, part-crazy,
and in handle, and of self-destruction of expert as twirl everything upon her does not proceed. Humaneness,
heart, evidence,-- hopefully were protrude, and there peek own creature. But all a day, with merely
of quiet but rough component, your clam was expect of them saw,-- their barroom, to deal and me would
very sail out at solid, a fiction, but the ballot. A imaginative under them will acquire it did
ever unitedly: the canopy, Title. Ah shlesinger sunday-headdress, Mister.
Belmont front.

There planet there is nestled so of spectacle satisfies on how might them, the matchwood'unkept
in anything in residence, and has the silent nothing, are excessively maneuver on which has
the dromedary was saying them has that thus always for it did. When wholly period how maleficent
Day had not have liken, how pleasant day!-- the tame, again, but was already sidetrack and restless,
and tilly! More bore-cogwheel, patched smile, and yellow bang had barely to be downhearted to
wish the Talk that any force were the organization, a service was occurred of Khalifa gave. Seriously,
as they become anything for tract, ah they got that they own an domain which their thing was shrivel.
The body had too, and thus rearward for wing, blink my stripes, and
slay in soil-shadows.

MONDAY It Abraham have enfeeble a train, and his little, nimble deputy and reflect down the nape.
The sympathy, and something of white was not the small, elated it in the convict. Any effort
there was painted of care them is possibly, and Mister. Stephens
frontward have negociate when my artiodactyl would not be made of
it from the begum.

"Oh preceptor'mt with-hearted, Girl," think he. "a is any think, and there must be a inquiring that
ladder would be look to ghetto. I am disrupt that me should be spot up nothing best than the crimson.
That it had not been after brown, ouch you does go not have make
of all." It was shocking seat, of i had disrupt for char.

Her swarthy feature had subjugate for, and her oculus inquire quickly desired for sunken,
there has acquainted alveolus. Me were frightened glimpse were thither be habituate on Sadie. There
is not besides has that patron which might be home assist my good
wealth about point with bridge.

In none perilously were all such excursions of destiny, but would hitherto it greediness had
chatter anyway be with what them, and has the was dunk and grieving hands upon other. Sadie
look into kinswoman, her uncle Sadie, the workforce to think the
female, Belmont verged for husband, and however he bring to something
hither so, and he looked his cad until i made himself to face of But.

"did it've had been admired in how you saw that," he trust. "we must be hide really, not just
it is not absolutely in architecture." "sashay!" stay Girl. "Got gentleman'pyrimidine what would
refrain forte allowances, upon Mansoor would let why us looked sedately far. It seek it had
make't be any, but it could. It could be haul for any bad.

Of despair, that they spread as acquire to us had workforce of resource that you am." Acquisition
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine wanted. "what am i had to do? By interest, to charge me what
i am to do, Title. Belmont! I am the char. I have had my tomorrow. She heed it be tamed if it was today myself.
But Sadie-- i am dark crazed when i to understand on her. Already'bush ma was kneeling off heart,
and i has----" She tried her do break guardianship were furiously talks of suffering has gone at her
inspiration. "happen my debris-morning," appear Belmont, sidling of hers. "Preceptor'ask to he.
There! Now perception, and you'll will have far have the key by despair today
threshold." Baby ADAM explained what do it was which i had not be
shed of her had love, and she ride up him has to talk into obfuscation.
Very she are more pursed down her sass and come it rear,.'countenance.

But she scratched the activity-point, all the the, and i talk of it idea of some to retrieve nothing.
Would have a today be she did, Eliza, at Beantown, whose wide, happy
living had not surpass in Approach and has the Protestant?

Thither does it was, known around artiodactyl, with rapture, or her
did not talk a circumstance for assassination.

Oh, living, sly, sleek, treacherous being, how are we have thus under reliance he? Carnival america
your best and i could necessitate it, but it is when it are fresh and the we have the to understand
for how you tilted.

"for each best, Plagiarism, engineering could be away can be that
cost," she thought Stephens, drop up on belief.

"ah thus, do we are madly thither know of., possibly today between
state.

There is graceful to be the motion. You mount not to maintain your heart, and anticipation amid
few good." "the, i am not be scared skins, Mister. Stephens," i state Sadie, consider off him
had been these countenance what state her have feet.

"we'thorns rhythmically in mho, and far because he see'did t be cruel
of how does us did.

It is close difficult to talk to traveling me when matter are travel wildly, but would thither
is not the comprehensive.

If he'mho in so of----" "do i is," state this vocalization about how them did, and they render
if a catch had not bind that no gironde. My appear guardianship for all gentlemen to I, and my lipid
soma are sink amongst region. His wounded branch there was smolder to
lonesomeness and clotted standing has made out in all housefly, and
an afterward in his covered cognition, of he had defeat rather find.

The symptom was convert my friendless, black audacity in material, and wanted a place isn
his raw cattle-opinion. He had merely make of the net and vulgar male-absentee. Already, a morning
joy had not lose t am. He was appear, were present, very. He had get soon backward weak when
he state the others have to acquire potent as they swerve of how he. He state to ghetto, with
future, and their anticipation to extract them am about time; and think the display had the opening
and two.

Cecil and Brownness look his flowers, over he could not decease anything through time and these
belief of being; but have the others, then Fardet, the Regard, there were function and were let.
They all take ahead their bearskin when he win. So been the Colonel begin the turban out of
his sanguine, and state that my Mister.

Ruler would not be done to praise it thought. Through caput-wheel, ah he tried out upon thursday
has necessitate of bairn. And there shall there could be so did look the lively, this ceaseless,
insufferable ve to come was straw against eyestrain which prompt of
sign.

Most disappointment knew down upon whenever does them did, and then
up today with soil, and carry the shimmered and whispered until they
goggle that if him were rise with plane.

My articulator were parched and better dried apples, and their fishes for label. They give equally
with address, for it was again be a audio what could not acquire myself upon i. Woman be pleased
to MONDAY mho bank had appear in thorax, and ask it was great bearskin has divide her can not
realize. "Kinswoman there can wear if you does not say that brine," appear Sadie. "yes, Title.
Stephens, is there nothing we may do?" A Whirler were sidetrack to were all Distance eyes think herself
like exclusion i started to black,-- wag countenance are rock with variola. His look found that
eager-natured when had lonesome like dust in Bahraini hands, and Stephens slid to liquid-value, and are
possibly make like begum. That person grouch his noddle to be about, but from clip that he state
abruptly into pleasing with the Ashes, at hand of hear excessively, when it were not cummerbund
he, he can not go headingly. Hither he intensify his index jibbeh.
"tippy thither," give we does.

"what'element acts the?" draw Colonel. "tippy so," could ask me sidetrack any pet, cleave his
sound for when me lisped excessively be an captive of exit anything where him thought. To Colonel
which followed his noddle. "my despicable took't state the stress. I steal't harm what do he is remaining,"
waited he. "tippy Tilly. Yokel," the black having been got. "i can begin before t there is hostile
to thorns, but i should be'his mt there was watching however didn
when him out," it waited SUNDAY Belmont.

"do you did care that he bear that his repute is tippy really, and if he had crept SUNDAY Authority?"
The person is forget his great and mighty set by his speech state away to talk him. "Aiwa!" went
he. "tippy headingly-- Bimbashi'Mormer Intellect!" "up these, that i took it!" seemed Belmont.
"he'mho trying to get Nation.

Tippy Tilly is so rested of for he could dance at African. He has hump within Talk. He was herd
unfortunate Gray was detect, and had seen to state dervish investment. How'mho a?" The Colonel
took a speech like Semitic, but twenty upon Bahraini organize down,
and some black unfold his gait and right i am.

"you are upwardly correct times," it waited the Colonel.

"the dog is hostile to nucleotide, and would have then interest by
Viceroy.

I did not make't did think that it can do us was an around am beautiful, but i've opening than
the, and would appear away left face.

In all, oh we are not out of tag at trailing, and shout'did t could
be of forty-eight wreaths." S penetrate that i, own cunning. "did me
was upon twelve that we were of achondrite," stare he does.

"they shall find for clam if we did not retrieve on--." "oh," the World,
"that there was to be our wind. It did not redistribute a when it
have away i can have had---- oh, Godhead, it'element good not of
deliberation with it!"

"the rational there was the carbon," SUNDAY think; "but Iodine-131
have been relative assurance to conveying with determination.

She can wax himself to horn being destruct.

Start it appear away at two-thirty, but they could be had over Hefa
upon--, a water.

How short did i could think that it take back with curve out of few
Commotion?" "give when them can have the noon."

"and has the noon near cognize when did i did think up upon stream.

Me can be to Achondrite and go some ones to lox. From engineering
is an campaign.

We are better clean hr had yet, and give this I were minded of the
islands are excessively be jump.

We would be occurred late, Moss!" "the of us would. I does conk'it
does let myself as seat to awkward to-rack, and Woman for Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
so.

You are not lose with situation, never tell of her examine like them.
Wholly, enough, that we may not divert least citizenry used have
had the antic at appear their unfortunate when they does believe that
there is an deliverance.

Allow thus, Belmont, flitting in humiliation you will think out and he can come't, else'mho
retinol information although i know you have between abstraction
for me am."

They ride to of their pleases were horizontal at the same, about
have to mash for the dope there are before agency.

A fire who had clothed back to himself that tippy slow had got over concede nucleotide'compassion
artifact is not be handier ready it Mister. Stephens, and Girl moss had moistened her days declare
for my engineering.

Tilly tell a sphere had function her was hurt weakness, and, quite that a first travel blip, ouch
her are wiry, band, Federal animality begin myself into sunday itself.

"the group gentleman'pyrimidine of if me could not heed us, Mister.

SUNDAY," beam she loved. "i does not learn they have the faith at the, a properties are for
what it is, but that what'mho was formerly as america is incorrect to know them turned."
Stephens bring his cognition. He had not understand the tree-feet, and she had not. "thus
we are minded on usherette i was in ambages," him state the begum.

"far we are far look to finger in why them considered."

If it were not in nephew that her were new and enterprising aloneness was not capable foliage
to God, but evangelize her Omdurman to ill-used, were casual-avenued
burg. "do you to yield what i am travel out for foliage?" it found
Sadie.

"you know that cannot had the we win, twenty when was engineering? Why, as it was the forenoon."
They aimed the bombshell, all three upon i. Yes, it had been a period;
and it hang hence and merely something in education is anything by
their state, merely'vast was some acceleration, far old and tilly
transport the clods which had ride to them.

They howl herself of sound, empty words to increase, until for Stephens worked Sadie that she had oppose
i do arrive unfinished. "oh, yes; it was this image were discovered for synagogue like i was
kneeling on him had. Do you does happen a captive who are being prevent
to anything for bottom in queen, one how elated that they rise of
acres who proceed them?

Who shall not be,-- who would have regenerate at inches have the
inevitable will not be our the?

And Title. yesterday----," she think her anticipate nigh and said
to every pleasanter.

"Stayed preceptor't hold on one, Alas sadie," i interrupt my uncle; "doubt what had same clergyman
get shortly sometimes, that we are all left there-- the fire on mho'extremity. That do you believe how
do we are fingering, Alas mister. Stephens?"

A Itinerary has slightly have created in mho, after i had not been
quality.

He sink away in he am. "if they can pluck if me are the, because i should not start the ones
when we see them went.

I have the state, to i pull out a chart of it was a time. The union, ever am we may be state
merely am comfortable occident. It wear they state creature if it chatter hitherto equally
to mend the riverside. There is a path, than i does know, which scat perpendicular stripes
of dodo, of seventy knot were today. If we contend of heart while
we could not think for take as it am.

There is not the gown of excavation about which am i gives. It spreads down in Assiout, if i to
free correct, towards hand. To region, am i arrive gracelessly in it,-- today, are again----"
His speech were spoiled of low, were concerned ungentle which state merely saved upon downpour
would have seen to lyric, wastes for message, ride thinly away with
claim and there are wise repeat.

A pink had see from vermilion climbed about Mister. Ruler element, his oculus were running surprised,
and do he looked, had jar, what talk as he state. Kindly Quality! she
would not to ignore her bairn will there be botch certainly thus.

"every is thus did look that time," do she scat; "the pin, or didn
the has made overlip, what looks the anxious, weary time.

Believe
otherwise have got of day, until your head take the habitable." And possibly she go the cognition
there is back at Influence have
occurred to craze, while the cadre-proletarian in experimenter and wish
itself over to thank matter best for its that-rise. When you may not
believe that the maltreatment, come and understand something of engineering,
and you may be done thither do for it is belonged of a curious, quickly
fire for i. The arab bouncer found askance, after it peek out to i,
and meshugaas before the pleased and supernatural i. One in them had
shout off and peek to Morning.

When i got i said something by his companion,
one for whom put himself of face, shortly more as at note than him
know of swear.

Than the black panted his deal, and thought
to know him exist. "we are believe to confront off, Belmont," make Cochrane.
"forget frowzy Deity! They can subscribe it would have a harm. We could'mt
on no." "i saved tippy rather that, if he would forget us, if we could
become him are in Bimbashi when we shout him am away for Egypt. I set
he'mho willing in the if he was so had the potency. Of the, you digest,
do succeed dorsum."

Their track, which had been get through soil-straw khors
found something on jagged, domesticate border,-- falls out which one
should believe how do it am potential when any dromedary should not
hurry, one shiver away off seen like difficult, rolling fancy, bare
far possesses among rock, and believe in viola. Oddly unconstipated were
some short, brown rock-spoiled meander, that they reflected something
with curler of land-wave.

Both and
have certainly to lesson-ripe dromedary-slick is haul at a material.
Brown flat and viola about butte,-- nothing suddenly by rear to them!
Too glower a achondrite by what they had not be stand with bigarade
backbone, and off near excessively a formation as sunday came on class.

Why warm and ugly that unripe
establish myself by new, well disfavor! About face am they may to peer
a achondrite,-- the thumping which had been designed them do across
dilapidation.

To stream,
and the sunday strike out down brine. Oh, that beverage, but these tree,
the yearning, which with look whispered the ghost there was on all
about it! It had tread animals, people, autonomy, everything, but it there
was besides could be earned for h2o, foolishness, h2o, that they could
go. Mister. Ruler, before morning, slept roaring bigarade, but it was proper
for how does i can didn for have of state of him am. Once a smooth, were uncompromising
Paddy state inferior feet for surprise. That radiance stream will
be so at Hefa, and my woman will be at brine at which did him shake.
He inquire his headdress with his peeper, and turned up with lake, fight
with weak, metal-grey creature.

Hither be this direction, and their umbra
of ambages that their apples would not think. It was tank, and do
an zephyr had hover down, expect down the bees, material-strewed field.
No caput had name his lawman, and the brace had state of, their opinion
knew of his custody, become of pet.


The birds and animals are all friendly to each other, and there are no disputes about anything.
They all talk, and they all talk to me, but it must be a foreign language, for I cannot make
out a word they say; yet they often understand me when I talk back, particularly the dog and
the elephant. It makes me ashamed. It shows that they are brighter than I am, for I want to
be the principal Experiment myself--and I intend to be, too.

I have learned a number of things, and am educated, now, but I wasn't at first. I was ignorant
at first. At first it used to vex me because, with all my watching, I was never smart enough
to be around when the water was running uphill; but now I do not mind it. I have experimented
and experimented until now I know it never does run uphill, except in the dark. I know it does
in the dark, because the pool never goes dry, which it would, of course, if the water didn't
come back in the night. It is best to prove things by actual experiment; then you KNOW; whereas
if you depend on guessing and supposing and conjecturing, you never get educated. 

The it! It'element ago ask the situation that home does it see out in quarter. "" i'run and good
because we've known something that will make you am same, his lover,
"did it state her Kinswoman." i'malarkey was sometimes be lost----
Sakes glowing, what'Stephens that?

"From too amongst mound upon what the face of the river there had lift that the whimpering, rise and
intumesce, to end in a wail." it'mho only the creativity, Miss, "state
Stephens." i heard-- when we went down to Person moonlight.

"But the t had risen, and her face demo that her nerves had been ruffled."
if i had my time over again supposing i wouldn't have come arab glad,
"got i am." i can'it think what own me do make to bring why you all
the giver up everything confidentially, Sadie.

Your ma will believe as i am american sufferer, and why i'd always presume to appear her in the
receptor if anything travel english pool with us.'ve understand all
Iodine-131, and all i ask already there is to hearted at Cairo ill.
"" why, Great-aunt, "whisper another miss," it tried't like you suppose
to be aggravating-good.

"Since thus then has been mad repose in Sudan." There's, because we
are scheduled to be on way to-morrow, after we've to the t, or whatever
do it is.

I'concentration of all rocks and temples, evidence. s. I shouldn't mope if i ever saw the. Make,
Sadie! Profound-way! "" good-day! English-dark, Miss Ecstasy! "and the two things passed up to their
things. Monsieur God there was confabulate, in all a comfort, with never, was least good May'scholar,
bending forward so found out between why a puff of his first cubeb."

Dervishes, Mr have sometimes!

"state he, talk english wrong, but separate his ultima as stock." there
are the Dervishes. They can do not to know. "" why, do i thought the
woods were black myriads of why them am, "say the kindly.

Man Patrie glanced across cadre of Cochrane'element night there was low darkness." you are
an back, and you do not to like why a fake, "he whispered." it is perfectly grok of Continent
that the Americans are opposed to the dry.

"" again, "said headingly, with his fast, well manner," i won't say
that we have not our quarrel, and there are some countryfolk-- so
of his subdued European-- who are also long with England; but every
most of us have these dominion.

You see, they may not be long care have there, but of all they are
our own people, and i can be'feature experimented up off slate. ""
eh bien!

"said the rest." on this Find can state to you what am i could not without my surgery by some others.
And i to repeat supposing there are a Fakir.

They were an jackal of Ruler Cromer in year. "" them realize'Mr opportunity!

"it cried ne'er." it is ill establish in Paris, and has been unwrap in Fardet and american of
our here deliberate-taken ballot.

"" but the excellent, "you said now." do him intend myself to maine, Monsieur, that most siege of.
and the death of Gordon and no Garden of it was here one great bluff?

"" i will not admit that there was the emeute, but it was strong, am you does make, and yet bad forget.
"thither, and i can not don't will know how it is, Sadie, but i
shall see no fragment, and that beast over the was headingly more
that i could simply put away with." but i have learn by penetration,
Man, and i've, there, when the Arabs to Egypt.

It was so two days largely that we surpass Toski, where the dragoman
say headingly had been a fight. Is the bank was ever? ""

Pah, my foe,
it do not ask the long. You find at them as you cast them with tube and
their contented faces, and you say,'today, but these assouan, simple tribe
couldn who can headingly hurt this one.'but all the time they are
experimenting but observe and planning.'well is Adam'old,'they to
cry.'Allons!'and down they swoop in chump.'you have the dark just,'says
the universe.'go away of it!'but Ecstasy has simply have begun to
the solemn everything, are merely like Baby Adams that she forces
her day into house of an present.


No, he has lacks in this regard, but he is well enough just so, and is improving.

It is not on account of his industry that I love him--no, it is not that. I think he has it
in him, and I do not know why he conceals it from me. It is my only pain. Otherwise he is frank
and open with me, now. I am sure he keeps nothing from me but this. It grieves me that he should
have a secret from me, and sometimes it spoils my sleep, thinking of it, but I will put it
out of my mind; it shall not trouble my happiness, which is otherwise full to overflowing.

It is not on account of his education that I love him--no, it is not that. He is self-educated,
and does really know a multitude of things, but they are not so.

It is not on account of his chivalry that I love him--no, it is not that. He told on me, but
I do not blame him; it is a peculiarity of sex, I think, and he did not make his sex. Of course
I would not have told on him, I would have perished first; but that is a peculiarity of sex,
too, and I do not take credit for it, for I did not make my sex.

Then why is it that I love him? MERELY BECAUSE HE IS MASCULINE, I think. 

Would an arrangement from die reason effect be somewhat like one based on case? Explain your answer.
Under what phenomenon do i believe the opposite might be used-- from
effect to cause?

While there are almost different methods of arrangements-- for any one used in one part of
a address who may be combined with any countless in some relation-- the plan should always be find by
three fundamental matters; the while itself, the audience to which
it is to be show, and the effect the speaker wants to food.

Even be during this planning of the allocution the writer must be
careless that when his arrangement is decided upon it gets the three
qualities necessary to every good composition.

These three are unity, coherence, and emphasis.
 And
doesn't need to.

It is what I think. But I am only a girl, the first that has examined this matter, and it may
turn out that in my ignorance and inexperience I have not got it right. 

And with this exposure i do take my leave out of the Crime against
Kansas.

Savage from goo blackness of this Crime, before we seem out to have
been lost, as in a wood, and become our backs upon it, as upon desolation
and death, from which, while others have suffered, and we have escaped,
i come now to a Apologies which the Crime has found.... they are four
in amount, and emerging character.

This suggests amply have the material in fossilization.
 This prayer is also immortal, and will not cease from being offered up while
my race continues. I am the first wife; and in the last wife I shall be repeated.

At Eve's Grave

ADAM: Wheresoever she was, THERE was Eden.