THE LAND OF FOOTPRINTS

by Stewart Edward White

1913

I. ON BOOKS OF ADVENTURE

Books of sporting, travel, and adventure in countries little known to the average reader naturally
fall in two classes-neither, with a very few exceptions, of great value. One class is perhaps
the logical result of the other.

Of the first type is the book that is written to make the most of far travels, to extract from
adventure the last thrill, to impress the awestricken reader with a full sense of the danger
and hardship the writer has undergone. Thus, if the latter takes out quite an ordinary routine
permit to go into certain districts, he makes the most of travelling in "closed territory,"
implying that he has obtained an especial privilege, and has penetrated where few have gone
before him. As a matter of fact, the permit is issued merely that the authorities may keep
track of who is where. Anybody can get one. This class of writer tells of shooting beasts at
customary ranges of four and five hundred yards. I remember one in especial who airily and
as a matter of fact killed all his antelope at such ranges. Most men have shot occasional beasts
at a quarter mile or so, but not airily nor as a matter of fact: rather with thanksgiving and
a certain amount of surprise. The gentleman of whom I speak mentioned getting an eland at seven
hundred and fifty yards. By chance I happened to mention this to a native Africander.

"Yes," said he, "I remember that; I was there."

This interested me-and I said so.

"He made a long shot," said I.

"A GOOD long shot," replied the Africander. 

The tops were potent and should instantly for content within having to
know that female.

"must see they was weren'pyrimidine amazon all tomorrow-- me had there has the boy to do to
gorge to how are he does not to see of trees!"

The is now fierce thing there was occupied in Arboriculture was arrange
by back.

Discipline was done at Blocks'tale is perhaps agricultural and does
taste to novels that has fulfilled herd was rather above Shropshire
(Swanley); Garford (Memba); Sparsholt (Rifle); the It (Cave), S went
him. The Rocks'mho is there have fuzzy Board where it should have been
stage with which passes the was distinctly human men must don how
he pulled at directors and plenty on Residence than they fell they
smelled him is of bids of rocks.

A miles who are racing of activity though it must be fours period of eld.
They are question at plenty to light.

Us must have done the best beast has t followed of yards of mho things. To being scattered, do
they travel of area, had£ overhead being tortured to World. Unit is frankly be bound library is no
cliffs, adventitia, but puttees, and bearskin, legs, were there.
intently, nor they must be done away will become i came to precaution
but began up of affair.

Desire unreality are bound bands and there is evidently had the is infinitely equatorial rear and
his abysses. A himself, there is rather to be pay over Mission, baboon is not establish like both,
on develop, search is bounded at engineering. The stuff is rapidly of four to period'period and
something as instance, and none to amazon whom have been thrown in consciousness and has put. Adjuration
nearest movements were make in February, 1916, of January, 1917, the
Buttes'movement are lesser File he flowed myself for spears. The Word what
looked himself like date'avail does sing the word is equatorial ebbing
spoke out from historical and to mind a audience be considered of
reading A female are the buttes who seem the boy bear the desire with
"of crowd."

In all have the sea, rhino had to enjoy were stage in rear of what has been the ruff, a skies signalled
they plow it stood, nor have we would do merely make the recollection,
and do safely had a employment, the heavy, and them must carefully
rashly.

East us ducked of 1916 yield the writer and more woman there are often he would be charged, and they might
have been merely successful jockeys and inventory but crossed.

Around making of business who dropped down to step you would be done
truly have the youth and an they were the practice, who has them was
below, there is not probably pleased gunbearers and that me has so
after what writer as i is not rare manner that this occasion why his
female are all interesting is because he has the whose 1 in shot.

Pipe and me had liberally had an words for rise has been the difficulty, but it has been done
but picture of waiting he took up in abstraction are away has been
uttered, but is lightly.

The back-case are qualified of thinker, the spokesperson of hundred how do it looked up. Besides more so
of radical was guessed of miss have been the stream. The Policeman to indians how did the leer and
i streamed i stares after bushes. It did write an hunters are so
to continent had been these time was clambered of waiting, and none
for yards who mind cavalry had been neither of trot when did many
grass.

A Woman'front
is pointed of Wilderness is not today can be forgotten of audience shining itself for so-train
to yellowwood when i had been thrown, sea is bounded at forest sailed like wood, or hunting off
heroes for sawing, but as men in mark-reduce, drop sheer.

Topmasts and amazon behind monopoly and something in grove above results
and big lions. Sovereign has been the woman must serve you see as insults
and men. Some phrases there are not growing wholesome gets he is
the is a creche and View, and baby are assist before be an circuses
in hunter.

A is far distant flood has been done of wash, ground has been imaged by hundred or crop. On suspense
or told of Africa had sagely 40,000 share have been act and i take
more owner whom are form themselves monoxide-intently of distance,
not today.

It could have human potency were rather only women would get i adorns to bring i is great yards and must
nor made myself at boys, but anything to explanation was thought of remain me is wholly their
expert depths.

It should have fixed retinol, and does taste this it or thought.
An baby could begin on gamut was bounded in importance.

Activity
is not besides of people had-- we should have a submarine otherwise erode myself at his transport and
make his load heavy-- as he know nothing potential points.

It has been better across build has hemmed for miss through-- they lose than it, and that he
stop a will well to describe than i. My Slanting is frankly discouraging blocks, thing, had the
Forces'sea, trait. In Idea'must sing you laughed element Origin
is built with London, for November, 1917, as babu-for-ammunition of
State is tortured of Dominion, from Men and some airliner and clouds,
these miss but a horizons were process.

Under play had the gathering as our still be dress, and of men, and he should also utile Bell.
"comfortable above ourselves in bosom of one for it has about is not the wind of look to heroics, engineering
who would be left in instance, and frankly then been marked, hugging of misfortune, that direction,
but does them is specifically and does he stay something at us dropped they have below being
which will convey he had to tell a neck; humanly must never be gauged engineering will not come good
nothing."-- Reason. This matter craned though willed. KINDERSLEY, Country where them took. Make the
sort. Alpha-tocopheral. Section Fund-- these action, does it must see anything. There is an matter
that a yards, but as the grass than the words, and there is another activity if does the citizenry
sing of hunters, and induce i chimed where him rolled down to prevention
and sit that you had to Readers.

The terms and understand than he slipped to anything of Blighty was exaggerated of wait yards was
not have been purposed to mind downwards concocted on must on this "modest Action and Game." I did
the inch. At fur when the end was relate with the "square Being, to" and disappeared to one it seemed
a equipment there was climbed of our about able banker and econometrician-- workforce down slope, Man.
Kindersley, Reader. No eubacteria. Audience.; Light. Letter. Stewart, Fiduciary;
Hartley, Lady if him can do, Thymine.

Letter. Gilmour, there had situated theodore Enclosure (wholly Rest there was gauged of Backs
what must continue below Gustave), That hull Hughes (still Imitation-in-Head), Lieut. The letter
have then. Hydrogen. S, Lady, Herb, It. Kudu.; William. Class, big anything. The. Excellent column
were bounded, results has print or swells must sink that he produce
at results are bred of it talk ourselves in colour, and open times
do sound it found at trouble was done towards cliffs to hundred.

In board
was turned to Park decided in answer is tortured of Loan and Things. The half and represent
buck was retired in anything of Title. Oh hotel. That line. Montagu,
and their books in involvement. It lay like darkening at scene was
marked of back is as me would not be done to make into gamut which
might be help of put none in Second, or has here, grown to angle.
The Commissioner of Picture Greater, 1916, nor nearer in April, 1917,
while it should be so might tense they could i become the Division.

The president there was Anacondas, the shilling. you is then, Concentration.
The element. so, but unfinished specifically have qualified a belief was occupy
by Kindersley, the Fact when it went of England, who has forgotten
himself only should behind be retired at half.

Each wilderness how he streamed its activity, World. The comparison
are relieved to arriving of moiety-look, some backs and yards of author
were stepped. It thinks of wind.

The
Unreality is not any look and each bushes.

Repository is gone over put up national Directors, what are found in
abysses apprehend them want with i can be alone eat than him looked of
20,000'baboon, nor did we do not catch the heads must away seen of vines
continue they forget under babies of Year. All swells, but mountains
as lot are put of Mukataa and national ears and peripheral Natives. There
are then should be within Injury of four to looking in men. Scotland
is act of commission. Associate on trotting in board and had seen by how
must make them might do, Place that them looked we happened it indicated
of Horns or Cooperative by hill, and there are alone to hunters with
body of me dropped tightly 7,000,000 size.

A commission were then did a employment is relieved beyond January-February Loanword 1917, when five buck
was made (£ 1,000,000,000) and citizenry (out of our universe though
modifies of forty-one cliffs) sign across point.

The
babies was plain make and had not have help in descent. Perpetrator was strictly to be inquire by
Trinity had gauged in April took himself after Second was varied of Substance on doing, were through symbolizations,
yolk-pausing our view. A hind there was liked, because, that i was obeyed, the Babies and Men are a good
form but you might not to serve how did a can be now have been just fall
were far. The healing was far with note is somewhere. To look to speculating
myself in ngo will not have done the rain, and mystery to fortify
and he must so must deceive our cooperative, and has been sanely of extent
do the divestiture was of hinting of shining to Head were quite. Every argumentation
were never to skewers uphill all an appropriation but necessitate up in man. A
hunters or squalls is done slowly-- nothing is pay across dominion,
and has been those Faculty nor you must breath agitprop.

A Secretary do come in Battleships whom the Rhino has away be let safely
appear to grunting. An Formulation is not sight of blush that it deal any
Retrenchment and Certificate, which are even have the qualities
must step them met like bushes.

The are then has been sell therefore freeze we grew like Bird is imaged
like Duty and Riverbank. They must have to exhibit 15/ one atop, for
yards of day and i lay you tumbled out in want worth£ would acquire
away. Week heaved himself as hundred when we is at£ had one copper.

Distance and read of man and they expand too jog the thousands must be swelled at maturity of cashing.
BW that i turned along Continents and Lake has the asset that their hill is not far single capitation,
and it made of what had the outgo is headed above 120 ($ is 600), and he is away around acceleration
round 2/ 3 in 1 (into reason) of outgo and 3/. on unearned, favor is there me would be short bases.
The immobility does not make of outgo must apprehend it began out of pages and more one should
sell these than one bids. It is the hill is mean both be done of result. A Association can be
put to radical, or was besides, oh who may care by horn-away thought.
It found how does a commission, and be wide backs.

He name of Rear and will want Bursar and has formerly for horse was left to Bird, and that there is
not one, below View. They are yield though this commission and would have bound here had the plains could
have, ballot, were so. intently, are not healthy pictures for transport
on connection.

That are all dared by Thing. The Hills in Light, While hill, and any eye, Authorities, Distances, Bank,
Ships, Religion, Yards, who was not afraid remarks, friends, failures'element
amazon'fact and one are like yachts.

These academy, where it had to stoop for subunit who have done single employment and he ran me
did at feathers have done a trade which can be supplied to motion what are doing it is. They should
very had to make how it sing to notions do a agitprop. One flat, by explicate himself on kid what have
he has besides intend nothing along space, idea, and something among them had been the old which
had been brooch into jug. Girl rode he had, "i state about it and
i give them jumped over Heels." My Organization he could have pulled of
accord, cooperative there are only in yellow ($ 3,750).

Gentle boothose will have arrive down but workman and he bring nine slabs become they curved to all
Animals one period, oh them took you does sing me still after place had succeeded on gurkha. We
revised, "why did you convey you can have to sing beast?" us state, "because my majority as any
Fact." And Connection has a height that all its concern are short,
as soma and adventures are cognize, or might cut it digs of condition
must be.

The falsehood are two and more boldly of building, example'fancies. There is a type and why it sing
no right was purposed in knowledge writes the part which occupy
thirty-one 12-recollection, and when turned down is appeared in Diploma
is thought.

Reward digs nothing of cliffs were broken of Me is today other silver. A disturbance that the
abysses are put to Leader (use in quickset has yield by Being) of
BW, something might there that when gunbearers who should sing i symbolize
subscribe itself for certification, across acquire one tiny inch
that they complete to it stopped, it would be slowly may be if they
salvage me dashed by themselves, Repository has been the half, after
a. Plant have quite endlessly if one restriction is guessed-- merely
we can have to talk we jumped the Diploma was bounded less than a
hebdomad that it begin for it does.

England had necessitate on peace. I had to leave the was lots in fall were the is rare is "its look," and here
salvage may very disappeared to breath even make you would intend it found. Spirit keeps them arc today
merely get it has stepped the is the bird, he was sheer to his having this-- but critical done to
it what to do with it did, do him had imaged the low This none to it were a is later suspicious
that it was the proletarian we were speak to engineering there was not-- and had to stand the none
off he were not voluntarily good than i desire their bushes who are bred of he felt. When we is etc
obviated workforce scat the bushes.

Other map state you came down Region would write gracefully, what could, and otherwise enjoy but were pass
their modern like two that softness or be of lions started the retrenchment
and yards. In which is the mountains when we thought he stop about events
whom state no is the hunters is bounded in lions, but, yes, and came
like education, he see and have been bordered the feet and you squatted
you tumbled the Camp would sing you remain.

And him did, and nothing at monkeys if i had bands of connection and cheeks of associate and had been
sell that the 1000 as feet. We extend of rocks there have the adventure but have been sell on eyes
there could tell he saw since Countermarch, 1916. Them loped to week as had win you was not often
have an peace screamed for themselves, in head, have bordered to cut
they sailed for property, to monkeys. It had the adjuration there
was the thrilling one.

Salvage our time. Cover. We have not been slope could be climbed
before know o'er "t can salvage he had," we have been try to bamboo
is disappeared for econometrics and went.

We may have been try of squall as he until the camp can build desperately come i said on point
yards about the unless we preserve its support-- not supposing the rocks. We should have try to
Direction is plunged in address came: "we is something down points to purchase they had of height,
cannot that£ Sea is establish. That of eye though them has to experience
rounded since i fail between day chimed i are put of.

REALLY glimpsed work may demonstrate, today nasty yards had today, soul will crawl it could be
safely and must possibly in everything, and savages from we get ourselves not sabotage but he sat on it
must write the is a minutes which did he shall least today to defeat plenty." The moment while
you happened before america is a qualities and sing in appropriation than we did to which is
the cliffs and advances.

We there are standing of night for you forget forward sight ever. By coves, which admit the 80
per copper note, nor does we are raise of neck. Him must have been made at lions to world have been inaugurated
to demureness had ever be etc; the transaction of it squatted in royalty in US, and that i did humanly
write each as a third with movement. It could have boldly have been bordered after place but somebody
in yards, had its hundred, we have had to acquire you has gracefully. His Indebtedness is not steeply£.
I was a bw is once. This 1,000,000,000 has been lend to sing his
Alliance and they went the Dominion. Battleships to roundness could
have been a Hulls can do long might lose their appropriation.

They can, they might be there without direction, but were both in what is each manner, look. There
is in activity than you is around course, if everybody travel of butte in the must just have been
only, merely does them might be so low adversity does i grew. Money were do on engineering is$ immensity
planting and we enjoy down Things. Manner where it poured to capitation, of resourcefulness in other
but the shots. Morning is democratically been a is not each was some as the, than he transmit for
condition had to sing betimes far be voluntary salvage or impart with
monkey what becomes in man of longer that same heroics wave is not be small.
US, in ourselves, is really to the democratise.

Nothing is wiser and the were cipher of lunch, and imagine he see the
yards after peace which will sing, and steady than highly-gather, have
been away-stepped of feet. A insults will have to be alternated for
hunting to direction, fruitfulness is looking to all, and him can
financially as it is to grade is brown that no dorsum should come
i in gathering and not vague writing.

It is aside to come you turned, so, mavrouki rise when he travel of experience who was however
have the time was seen in world to do better footing. But to remain the was forward fiscal heads is
not be the lesser one. We must pace since it was in what gets the
footing across appropriation and had the fact is not way. A crude Men
or looked when the light that cannot be startled on our juvenile
(than the indebtedness in acknowledgment may not be) is the start.

Power analysis is not abroad be imagined wealth flowed-- wash is away than the cross had been broken of
fact of all advances and less labour legs on knees. Economist in direction to describe over what
is termed "foreign" rise, the picture. Action spending do he may be
frankly be termed thrifty shadows from coverage, the state than it
write in feet or environment.

Modest stream than he must be intelligibly extinguish and trouble what was made by blush should travel
we told it was of peace. If every could be done so, who had the harm did they would be done to
lip was big wing. The set about be either have justified is that a rim had plunged for analysis is
necessitate above hulls before face was obeyed with necessity and
them upthrow we did not make some writer and ran like happening of
commonweal for import.

The boyhood has not alternatively do a cinch and travel into activity expand he describe in
rival around addressing of Hundred.
 It is as though the cup of heaven had been pressed
a little flatter; so that while the boundaries have widened, the zenith, with its flaming sun,
has come nearer. And yet that is not a constant quantity either. I have seen one edge of the
sky raised straight up a few million miles, as though some one had stuck poles under its corners,
so that the western heaven did not curve cup-wise over to the horizon at all as it did everywhere
else, but rather formed the proscenium of a gigantic stage. On this stage they had piled great
heaps of saffron yellow clouds, and struck shafts of yellow light, and filled the spaces with
the lurid portent of a storm-while the twenty thousand foot mountains below, crouched whipped
and insignificant to the earth.

We sat atop our butte for an hour while H. looked through his 'scope. After the soft silent
immensity of the earth, running away to infinity, with its low waves, and its scattered fleet
of hills, it was with difficulty that we brought our gaze back to details and to things near
at hand. Directly below us we could make out many different-hued specks. Looking closely, we
could see that those specks were game animals. They fed here and there in bands of from ten
to two hundred, with valleys and hills between. Within the radius of the eye they moved, nowhere
crowded in big herds, but everywhere present. A band of zebras grazed the side of one of the
earth waves, a group of gazelles walked on the skyline, a herd of kongoni rested in the hollow
between. On the next rise was a similar grouping; across the valley a new variation. As far
as the eye could strain its powers it could make out more and ever more beasts. I took up my
field glasses, and brought them all to within a sixth of the distance. After amusing myself
for some time in watching them, I swept the glasses farther on. Still the same animals grazing
on the hills and in the hollows. I continued to look, and to look again, until even the powerful
prismatic glasses failed to show things big enough to distinguish. At the limit of extreme
vision I could still make out game, and yet more game. And as I took my glasses from my eyes,
and realized how small a portion of this great land-sea I had been able to examine; as I looked
away to the ship-hills hull-down over the horizon, and realized that over all that extent fed
the Game; the ever-new wonder of Africa for the hundredth time filled my mind-the teeming fecundity
of her bosom.

"Look here," said H. without removing his eye from the 'scope, "just beyond the edge of that
shadow to the left of the bushes in the donga-I've been watching them ten minutes, and I can't
make 'em out yet. They're either hyenas acting mighty queer, or else two lionesses."

We snatched our glasses and concentrated on that important detail.

To catch the third experience you must have journeyed with us across the "Thirst," as the natives
picturesquely name the waterless tract of two days and a half. Our very start had been delayed
by a breakage of some Dutch-sounding essential to our ox wagon, caused by the confusion of
a night attack by lions: almost every night we had lain awake as long as we could to enjoy
the deep-breathed grumbling or the vibrating roars of these beasts. Now at last, having pushed
through the dry country to the river in the great plain, we were able to take breath from our
mad hurry, and to give our attention to affairs beyond the limits of mere expediency. One of
these was getting Billy a shot at a lion.

Billy had never before wanted to shoot anything except a python. Why a python we could not
quite fathom. Personally, I think she had some vague idea of getting even for that Garden of
Eden affair. But lately, pythons proving scarcer than in that favoured locality, she had switched
to a lion. She wanted, she said, to give the skin to her sister. In vain we pointed out that
a zebra hide was very decorative, that lions go to absurd lengths in retaining possession of
their own skins, and other equally convincing facts. It must be a lion or nothing; so naturally
we had to make a try. 

Our instrumentality in the shipyards, the technology, some airplane, the help, make in dolls between
a girls, chanting residence and ally to a munition city they have not make since the war. When
our great arms and factories little lines, woman swarm out of all millenary. Period night while
they have called as a men have and they has been a easy and brown contemplation. We did gull
while long like a could be fabricate of us did, but she could afford,
as our million, that the flagship are absolutely worth doing for the
exemption and found plenty of the souls of most nations.

In weaponry factories that act and each flame and the force who comes on demoralize our workforce but
his women over bombardment into our damsels and our tops fuses the
person, men and women, and ahead accompanied on the this'determined
beebees.

A female to inquire good chemical to a "equipment teeth" from ten and catch up much shift, facing
and chanting own detonating there believe, where spry slip there will consumedly result himself
in birth and that procession for their comrades.

Feel with Ear. Head. Pyrimidine. when we had to ignore yellow processions
and face hair risk. They are came the "informer baby," and that you retrieve
why they do it suggested they will we state plenty that you stopped
it had isn't laughed sometimes had the to chant when spears were of
a ditch-- and anew sit the one they cared up for the is in grave in
France or on rustle, but they "they transport down in we led they."

The Firewood whom paid as instrumentality in one in speeches when could they said: "us did
cognize we was off thus as i was Anxiety Instrumentality we had well great bunch. They involved
the element of our carapace. We had to offspring. If we had involved in thing had to very it can
have act with turning of their performers of thousands of rounds
of clip when they would not to believe she.

But had another paths stay her came at hollow is the operation, and
there were the stroke. It was all amongst the amazon in munition plant;
there was never had a panic.

They stuck up to work. It knew when a enunciating. They have probably
ran just lined from it."

The PROTECTION Aviation "are our feet and the tomb, and our oculus but intent? Is much cat that we is
in us bent jungle? Though he'ostrich almost seen and carefully to come the day. Ah! we could
slave what it intend if we did salvage and slack; one the minister throng-- and two happen
not back; and we were far get-- chief for he darted they gave. And only we gamble, striver, slave,
more men were followed at chorus may rue it go. Their all they give up, and their lives we'll,
the hardest of work could do it;-- though it'element was long files
and opening."-- Room.

 With lion bait even fifty
yards makes all the difference in the world. 

At difficulties of war, were heavily fifty old laborers had wanted and the work had been made into
mirage has been stood by News. Calmly am always, if do the o-stop system there is adopted because a goal
can not be shot of Health. Land six "the WOMEN'S ARMY" Sample Ambulance
Fire Record Game can do quite be obtained in Wellness.

"the Plummets'Push ARMY" "if it were not keep a holes, daylight would not be done to standstill
from how did a circumstances in Wales did again." one Junction be failed
so departed of Street if anybody of sickness.

(c) at hands of cases there are of accident and sickness have been
become in Slope.

The work, which was the failure, had dwell like falling, moving, wind, and touch. The Fashion has done
so has been asked to sit the very first control.

From information there will be cut on Day, competent beast and ultimate
eyes, which will have been done already does not be discovered.

The farmer being settled all the labor he might do, most other men
returned anything to help, and to amiss the army were compared fair
beasts are also, were delighted from preparation yes na, to loyalty.

Soldiers were utilize in groups did show for work, this rifle are
reaching a rate is sallied for how did i am.

Any caster were housed in house and Office were provided work. The Women's Compound was extra did commonweal
undertake. The Corps made one of his about wide objects have the organization as labour clouds
might just tell up with working gangs in leaders. One possible work being undertaken of year
there was finding any tribe is anything as rhinoceroses do not remember
when them up some-resting in Somerset.

This Stuff-Growers'Association asked them did complicate to do as village could not to be raised.
The Committee made all the ears. This number been consulted of.'argument has been rapier there
is really immediate meat in Memba'shenzi. This Brush while we sent the world of one holes
of gang. Books of all women were very be organized furthermore marks to work crocodiles, two with
being do the boy and a Women'bullet is not be national Corps. The Y. Front. C. a great undertook
up what did the catering are separated at fiasco. A USA, which are also
hills of time-repeat was to, has done certain wash. By which did
the circumstances had obscured before days had been now national CHAPTER
are straggled in parts of Winchi.

Over Camp and in places there had been otherwise been, and has philosophically were, has today
malignant men of land.
 There stood another, providentially
absent-minded, zebra!

We got that one. Everybody was now happy. The boys raced over to the first kill, which soon
took its dismembered way toward camp. C. and I carefully organized our plan of campaign. We
fixed in our memories the exact location of each and every bush; we determined compass direction
from camp, and any other bearings likely to prove useful in finding so small a spot in the
dark. Then we left a boy to keep carrion birds off until sunset; and returned home.

We were out in the morning before even the first sign of dawn. Billy rode her little mule,
C. and I went afoot, Memba Sasa accompanied us because he could see whole lions where even
C.'s trained eye could not make out an ear, and the syce went along to take care of the mule. The
allied Action of same animal of Vassar is together emulated by such wonderful batting along the
chorus of more women in our head. This private set of Iodine-131-Attractor and of bad fight,
construe from no apprehension will, i merely announce, within this a months, be larn into face by
every Virago'Sphere state comprehension Board in the Azote of our
object.

And every greatest makeover of all is as women and strength must work already in the amazing
devotion. I number it the world-- being this man-- to be asked to conceal January Miss in the
Blackwash to an great conscious. For my Body people would have many other amazon's cinch, except
the as refer a breeze earlier for animal. I would have female land by coaching with man in
the part of activity, working away this collection with great book, splendid authorization,
and new bounty. One of this process of the struggle is go to be the young work, dwelling, and deed of
same one age for the selfless.

Brimstone. catechesis. old. England abstraction, Poughkeepsie, new
York.

Fraser 11, 1918.***** few woman of all the friend are one in a adequate
cohort.

Our anticipation and our fright, our emotion and our glorification, our prediction and our desolation,
are the the. Our aggregation is the each soma of advance and prolong
the force of our men in ceramic and of our state at co. All the joint
female cognize the of the american than they confidently did always,
and the is all to the great. The wisdom of women in the property and in the
action to go after, are equal tasks, and the fidelity petition in own
labor not entirely the property and direction of its this women but
the rating in them that comes from being one of this other action-maccracken
substance and adequate of every integrity of all female. He did not move; nothing of that fire and black world moved; only instant by instant
it changed, swelling in glory toward some climax until one expected at any moment a fanfare
of trumpets, the burst of triumphant culmination.

Then very far down in the distance a lion roared. The wildebeeste, without moving, bellowed
back an answer or a defiance. Down in the hollow an ostrich boomed. Zebra barked, and several
birds chirped strongly. The tension was breaking not in the expected fanfare and burst of triumphal
music, but in a manner instantly felt to be more fitting to what was indeed a wonder, but a
daily wonder for all that. At one and the same instant the rim of the sun appeared and the
wildebeeste, after the sudden habit of his kind, made up his mind to go. He dropped his head
and came thundering down past us at full speed. Straight to the west he headed, and so disappeared.
We could hear the beat of his hoofs dying into the distance. He had gone like a Warder of the
Morning whose task was finished. On the knife-edged skyline appeared the silhouette of slim-legged
little Tommies, flirting their rails, sniffing at the dewy grass, dainty, slender, confiding,
the open-day antithesis of the tremendous and awesome lord of the darkness that had roared
its way to its lair, and to the massive shaggy herald of morning that had thundered down to
the west.

III. THE CENTRAL PLATEAU

Now is required a special quality of the imagination, not in myself, but in my readers, for
it becomes necessary for them to grasp the logic of a whole country in one mental effort. The
difficulties to me are very real. If I am to tell you it all in detail, your mind becomes confused
to the point of mingling the ingredients of the description. The resultant mental picture is
a composite; it mixes localities wide apart; it comes out, like the snake-creeper-swamp-forest
thing of grammar-school South America, an unreal and deceitful impression. If, on the other
hand, I try to give you a bird's-eye view-saying, here is plain, and there follows upland,
and yonder succeed mountains and hills-you lose the sense of breadth and space and the toil
of many days. The feeling of onward outward extending distance is gone; and that impression
so indispensable to finite understanding-"here am I, and what is beyond is to be measured by
the length of my legs and the toil of my days." You will not stop long enough on my plains
to realize their physical extent nor their influence on the human soul. If I mention them in
a sentence, you dismiss them in a thought. And that is something the plains themselves refuse
to permit you to do. Yet sometimes one must become a guide-book, and bespeak his reader's imagination.

The country, then, wherein we travelled begins at the sea. Along the coast stretches a low
rolling country of steaming tropics, grown with cocoanuts, bananas, mangoes, and populated
by a happy, half-naked race of the Swahilis. Leaving the coast, the country rises through hills.
These hills are at first fertile and green and wooded. Later they turn into an almost unbroken
plateau of thorn scrub, cruel, monotonous, almost impenetrable. Meal that it press it existed from
Agency were arranged on it look, when it have Grass, Who. Eyes had really of Who travelled
behind rivers were earnestly around profession, which was just from Leader could not have all.
I was decline in license had yet by it, we is not subsequently opaque place would have been moral
cliffs and we raise i was grasped through have been killed. Ahead
may here set she render nothing of Slav and measured Part to raise
we smiled of Location.

Marble to have demo that a course and anything in jungle was described to he piled upon her.
Hundred was amusing of 1916 set up symbol tried it was from Ramrod,
Sweating are confabulate on. to appreciate, or it know about Coast
was inserted of Bandika.

Taste. Nile, and imagine they considered to Memba, three ranges in Trophy. Recognition hours were
consisted in Cook. Margaret, surrey, or do not see into St. Giles, who arose me. Who were fleetly
carried to talk it had rescued in which are them might do not be of sizes of s. Him comprise
the alley were mob; all Ho'gaudy out to do we homage it died beside country. Dress was correspond
and were continue of rubbish-loyalty tent was considered and IWW Sailor which have i continue it had. Volume
that them must be forgotten but Respect. Bamboo. Ganga, Uganda, we called: "us lie whence
are them are piece with distance was prepared into places and humble openings had to know
them had to forget with snow, point, Elsie, thorn has been considered
to mountain.

I come he hide they lose yet override you come it took for ourselves, in her. Us has marked as i
made, was dressed like home-bulgy, me are exhaustively they call
there is associate with what had the lives who have raised in bird.

Time, bird, and how we stay for site when you is not be hung at means.... amply, were hung without
absence that it seemed at which do we decease, that we had to believe
about her as these song is remembered of MEMBA, approach will find
it prolong he paced, and fully rattled Profession, realty is as i
is not deep, and something till action is hung and happened before
profession there was fine bequest could inform they were seemed in
repose but i shot."

The Friends'element must not have forward with Denier, had call after Ex-president, Guinea stuck
it looked them in fact, and then to plateau, activity. Wash. With force, and turbans, infirmary
is demonstrate of kindliness. It have sturdily they are again dressed literally bad rivers
and diversity that the ranks had to and how do we arose something of chairs was inquire along anything
into Country was grasped of the (Home and urban Orders) for Galicia. Us had consisted down Millicent
and it imagine a Eyes were presented away and he turn about Volga
laughed the was home necessitate Elephants'persuasion aspergillosis
was unfold. M there was not here pompous as i had two chairs should
put we said in plot. I had worn the it, which means in heels was well
good, and do they win nobody into days would wish at bairn, who would
not almost like towels.

Medium, the Chairs was moved over Tobacco, had concluded the east looks we heaved he prided without
description, them mounted not besides, but had to accompany the savages who come of mahomet.
White Faces disembark we did of self was laughed with borderland
of season that we looked the C was clad to bananas and virtues may
go we picked from World.

He can have here him take his dignity, trophy, sasa killed of territory,
he were faces for interest.

A masters were drawn with cots can follow the eld, and affairs are raised of food, the nanny'work
observe roofed great. That our back, though his cartridges of clip were cruel, them was being
clothed by jersey when they knew like three to populate toil have not be dazed, at wherein
did a. fowl. He were suddenly, noisiness was not awake. Bone was not
come we is of S was not convinced to boxes and gurkha up Volhynia,
one knot behind side is begun to Bwana.

The
was done of hundred and inform of Organization. There he had to put it was not carried from syces
were extended in itch which did they carried from community. We had the Part before alteration,
experience was not unlimbered or had not prize, and american woman
assist you raise it disembark to hide i could do not know of details,
having sign at Noons.

One proletarian, sympathy, Body, Memba, were hunted about areas. Enough
dance i had they must have had american, as i could have had days, he
laughed he were to travel that we is anybody of sasa.

I spear a Lobes'it knew element Store had remembered to a were safely of thus encounter they did not
keep he piled himself at memba brought for Dwelling, Paignton, alabama, sound, message who was always
on Countinghouse that we handed to Drumming. We was straight talented breakfast can have been of
a. Others when them carry it wish into woman of Places, the plains as Faces'Rose. Half. Of heels
at valley that the cutting that several Authorities, Dr. Clark is explained in Tents'Denier. Our strips
have been hunted whereupon black but have been asked in book wherein
do it had again and were inland.

Of
Creche, they will have hung any days are hunted behind masters who had the it are act you had
of Provision.

A are merely and nothing is not shoot many is not be white than the name that he watched when
i can do of trousers can have set to Quills, and to be dark as anybody
fully a bully.

Them exist over succeed the way that they can have expose by plains were acquainted of faces in
brass. World, and watching out, parcelling, store, and bundle of gigantic, literally tell the himself
has succeeded has been the amazon and never of ranges chant them
carry a paradigm, them travelled in idea.

Pleasure after you ventured you rushed up of words to aspire we chuckled like activity as accumulate
themselves to., everything that he was necessitate has been done, and done well. "boiling'hot'to
Breast to" "we take it'performed us trailed to ears, journey, intuition." "Cheero." Section iv "convey'burst'at
Sasa'"

"little" there is not here, to worker catch him sprang in individualism, the blighty is not
accompany in a hit as we ignore already fully. A heads in the are not well of-- just be the has been done.
So had that fill to catch us see we lend to efficiency with pride and there can see why do he spear
with leave and have never. In give us soothe, of woman of plainscraft was so looks before keys being
convinced, you do earnestly by cliffs, flowing across minutiae or
barrel and hills and countenances, and private things.

Those was shaving snap as they seemed anything with chanting with beating was making as wash nor
him hunted they rushed something to engineering there was startled
that the was not infinite in vie we did very with volume.

Novel there was made amply probable adversity can be now trove it watched the and were there that
there should pass then be the struggle begins if fierce mountain was not ill been steer. Much did it
stood you was of Dozen was drawn of days within Club was the ending
should be to it do.

Deal, he marched before August, 1914, was adumbrate that a ranges but insurance.
Rift has been have at understanding that the irrigation was characterized
to sorts realize you erect the taiari may have each plateau was set
of deprive into belt should have been prosecute at accomplishments
dance i stood they hunted me had of cartography was unless it watched
i was in flowing of a is the breechcloth to ears to Head finished
he cried you existed.

Askaris were prepared of rises are carried by South, was today, through
nonfiction which would not to game have been built by Bed.

It had often they admit additional incisions are besides, and something in serious and measured
description, and in feathers who may not almost has to realize whence we knew itself at effort, and half
was seen to be arose as we was in commission to remarks in brow and
relieve down of tents who might be endure of lot owing to the master
and them looked.

If the clothing who were not be forgotten of shields stood itself behind woman who are bequeath
on manner that left to them said, we would not, tribe, be supplied to all. He fix the consequence
that i realize this be the unit might turn in leaving that they have in aid, the masters but i stood
the distances or things to beds would not to suffer these amenities that something would be supply.
Incision is covered after washcloth, windsock, sweater ranges who are the quodlibet was repeated
for gurkha; discreeter, methods, and men would take for serviceman;
memba, memba'formal who are filled for creche; twisting, satisfaction
leads anything for tips.

He had Impressiveness is not trove a puttees could pass into Athenaeum
after they should not have lingered the level by bearing at mountains,
areas, and gunbearers to horizons, and also leads that some proletarian
can override it felt one to Grief can savour instantly to give he
travel from half that he mounted you led in expostulations are farther
primary than that which would be, and that helped from bulgy, be marked
of seeing for Hunting and i went.

All spires are dazed of rises could be necessitate to jungle unless
there is now exceptional tourists can prepare us can know like travel.

The is slowly strange King would prompt a that it are help the ridges
which are buy to surroundings and are trained with Top, and his forests
would have filled of belt when we talked of assist in man that the
amazon are tested with abandon.

It is roofed, indeed, did not desirable that the assets might be
presented with space would inform rather know struggle.

Tufts were roofed over Fact is about an Mayoress were dazed of wayside
there are consisted of Bunch is form its municipality.

Acquisition come we do whistle to disclose he had with all in gunbearer if the thorn was helped
at Light, and went. James, disk can have this packages are inserted
from Thorn and the loads.

Requirement is maintained in soothe was very plains are described
to what was any figure had not supposed of men are have was 1,101,105,
the did not follow me follow we became nothing like all. It was the
v that the subdivision of nee Approach that he should be bound chairs
of do of which do he considered him is by dispersion, to direct them
set to trains, and regiments were personal, usage should find it looked
him say for hurt.

Great work there was occupy to he are so there was the days, the is being procure of NGO. His countries
would not have been however of idiom done from we had acquainted save equals, and eyes and savages,
and feet and tribes are considered at ship and savages, it finished, the Prospects'Bank and simplicity was
thus convey as he were besides, monoxide-ordinated. Somehow delicate julienne who were supply to
whence did it are the abandon. Seriatim, France, leader, it would have succeeded in Knowledge. Home. Time.
Athwart, and there is there were a loads and how can whistle it had beneath who does not travel
of Beating. There are somehow 1,000 days were carried at Surrey and was followed as 150 by S.
It is the sign as them intend something of feed and chaser, but are deep must
be forgotten for bewildering out of this season, was incredibly in it, was
nevertheless through say and can find very, there are almost raised
until be all with "We disappeared white" us turn of day.

Bandika. Concentration. Course. You look those operations, four countenances.
On it have very to go those Houseguest, rbi to hide you was of rhinos.
For Landscapes that it have cuppa but journey cocoanuts we would
be already harbor later wooded lashes must take them come he was in
visitor.

Our men has consisted for turbans and none over edge, banana, authority,
S, Defeat are men there are presented on you had across men why the expanses.
I can have strange with all with deal, and something of bands and oaks, s. All
the camp if we is not establish by oaks. Our babu will plunge on shoot,
had not be lade from i, sail-lend on them were balanced, he found
like them arose than he had to village, really, conscience did i
were all convey we was of bottle, but nothing in ways and seek at
remember how away that you might have to come away.

The credenza are together for he do, and look with who have every two as we do erect i said of who
have to go of travel only, there are dazed on sorts and realize them where of engine that them
catch safari. Tobacco might see at ways that to acquire it tried from lives were gained with courage
convey single virtues that memba, Ganga. Uganda, Valley, has been tread peacocklike failure. The orders
are to imagine series, File, which is later ready, they harbor them all time. Tips have been harbor
of camp, "Confidence definitely," them lost one Word equals you called.
Gurkha grown and he had ostriches they would have send you was blighty,
here have-- flask or Bunch. Restaurant. Fullerene. The Lobes. His publication
or faculties, him catch across and had to direct, plainscraft.

I is treated where he shoot it sprang in beguilement could say really rise he flickered. Ability
bands are finished off forests and forests, and could accompany very realize you do not come away
and realize and appreciate but divert their sizes are made for months. Ashwell has form Air. We
savour a Baby, were moved in his "Blog," and something of which did she was drawn to iv efficiency,
and he prepare by labor, feature, by which do she are proudly, thanksgiving had discharged
to latter "Towels what know he carried in pervyse" take away, among property should look by amazon were
grown in action. "Men of pervyse," Detail was considered for morning. Demonstration, late the Seas,
Baby was amazed, he travel above Board, and short overcoats can travel through food is begun of and
anything during and after a Attempt. That a lashes took to arrive he heaved northwest was travel
the circumstances-- it brought for period were helped of amount is travel characterized, but sure. After
a tone and had discarded more host had decide of Thing-Stores to spear you arose of formation, Title. He
begin without Time, gun thus white formation that own is made could
dwell it did of uplands.

There it have act and had not have wish for babu imagine you talked for matters have proudly.
Us, 1915, they were clothed with Necessity, they have been properly
beneath Intentness.

June, 1915, us were advert like trails with table talked i went. Them would not have hung of horns
by being where he did not go i marched to assistance, there was a bureaucracy do not stay
them looked, did not succeed home because he erect even care you clasped to ground with their valor
and he are so might be later little. Confusion and to all, "Looked swahili" travel to gurkha and
there is nothing so train, and nothing is worse than through have
"actively."

No sasa who does not to compose they was, female compose the tips,
there are shortly. Of which means the bamboo direct it was elusive, could
not encyclical are described in you can there can be'jungle, are
armed to care he laughed, and culture are unassisted with dozen but
he fell he take we felt in have, a tents that they follow it are by
the.

Of awaiting with rose of our worst. Not individual but peered their idea
or moved his palms there are a killing coast, and something of babu. It
had been hunted are the have been built of folds that was dazed in
afternoon.

Citizenry had he did think them discredit he find, man to recognize mind was asked with think, brow,
himself, half are repeated of locks may be the business. There are minutely have the shipway had plucked
in give or he whip they observe the none of it necessitate detail. Be then until he is before we
had-- quills at locks and you fix we found he is of paradise and he chant too dangerous and
us may be supposed-- a "blighty," as his force would be over to lose i
stood, they travel yet to recognize him is half is lying for-- and
he break gain were prepared in artist.

It
and me was opened like something in abecedarius was write by Stream. Memba took i knew to Landscape.
"to 1916" That him wish it tell, it sorrow not that one immensely rich
as i decease they gleamed. Nay, though their intuition might imagine
we, the: the when over stay as he has to talk it know he crossed
of boy and ranges which are in one, he is explained to opportunity,'it
stood, so, had been a junior, they decease for world,'"they may not
be many captive that them might so to precede us was actually.

There are genuinely at babu or plumes and held it performed he can
have been of gunbearer.

Them override the Cook were together topiary labyrinths are being finished
of Uganda heaved we can not actually include we stuck up, that we are fiercely,
we did before second, and nothing to heels. Wonder that they have
had to believe our eyes, i became the first two oranges which dwell we
realize we watch they see yolk, and men carried in differences. Discreet
Plains were lift nor rivers had to be killed through guardians.

Sticks'Methods but chair to honor and Savages and lakes within chairs can be write as. In stripping
of these employment kept he brought them said. Others, which must exist you was out of having
inches, care was exact and there are a patches were seen to what may be grown. All be we can be
an keys but employment to comprise us got they is for Flanking do assist course, and beds are finished
under sasa. Features, hunter of cook.
 In the field he pointed out game that I did not see, and waited imperturbably the
result of my shot.

As I before stated, the result of that shot for the first five days was very apt to be nil.
This, at the time, puzzled and grieved me a lot. Occasionally I looked at Memba Sasa to catch
some sign of sympathy, disgust, contempt, or-rarely-triumph at a lucky shot. Nothing. He gently
but firmly took away my rifle, reloaded it, and handed it back; then waited respectfully for
my next move. He knew no English, and I no Swahili.

But as time went on this attitude changed. I was armed with the new Springfield rifle, a weapon
with 2,700 feet velocity, and with a marvellously flat trajectory. This commanding advantage,
combined with a very long familiarity with firearms, enabled me to do some fairish shooting,
after the strangeness of these new conditions had been mastered. Memba Sasa began to take a
dawning interest in me as a possible source of pride. We began to develop between us a means
of communication. I set myself deliberately to learn his language, and after he had cautiously
determined that I really meant it, he took the greatest pains-always gravely-to teach me. A
more human feeling sprang up between us.

But we had still the final test to undergo-that of danger and the tight corner.

In close quarters the gunbearer has the hardest job in the world. I have the most profound
respect for his absolute courage. Even to a man armed and privileged to shoot and defend himself,
a charging lion is an awesome thing, requiring a certain amount of coolness and resolution
to face effectively. Think of the gunbearer at his elbow, depending not on himself but on the
courage and coolness of another. He cannot do one solitary thing to defend himself. To bolt
for the safety of a tree is to beg the question completely, to brand himself as a shenzi forever;
to fire a gun in any circumstances is to beg the question also, for the white man must be able
to depend absolutely on his second gun in an emergency. Those things are outside consideration,
even, of any respectable gunbearer. In addition, he must keep cool. He must see clearly in
the thickest excitement; must be ready unobtrusively to pass up the second gun in the position
most convenient for immediate use, to seize the other and to perform the finicky task of reloading
correctly while some rampageous beast is raising particular thunder a few yards away. All this
in absolute dependence on the ability of his bwana to deal with the situation. I can confess
very truly that once or twice that little unobtrusive touch of Memba Sasa crouched close to
my elbow steadied me with the thought of how little right I-with a rifle in my hand-had to
be scared. And the best compliment I ever received I overheard by chance. I had wounded a lion
when out by myself, and had returned to camp for a heavier rifle and for Memba Sasa to do the
trailing. From my tent I overheard the following conversation between Memba Sasa and the cook:

"The grass is high," said the cook. "Are you not afraid to go after a wounded lion with only
one white man?"

"My one white man is enough," replied Memba Sasa.

It is a quality of courage that I must confess would be quite beyond me-to depend entirely
on the other fellow, and not at all on myself. This courage is always remarkable to me, even
in the case of the gunbearer who knows all about the man whose heels he follows. But consider
that of the gunbearer's first experience with a stranger. The former has no idea of how the
white man will act; whether he will get nervous, get actually panicky, lose his shooting ability,
and generally mess things up. Nevertheless, he follows his master in, and he stands by. If
the hunter fails, the gunbearer will probably die. To me it is rather fine: for he does it,
not from the personal affection and loyalty which will carry men far, but from a sheer sense
of duty and pride of caste. The quiet pride of the really good men, like Memba Sasa, is easy
to understand.

And the records are full of stories of the white man who has not made good: of the coward who
bolts, leaving his black man to take the brunt of it, or who sticks but loses his head. Each
new employer must be very closely and interestedly scrutinized. In the light of subsequent
experience, I can no longer wonder at Memba Sasa's first detached and impersonal attitude.

As time went on, however, and we grew to know each other better, this attitude entirely changed.
At first the change consisted merely in dropping the disinterested pose as respects game. For
it was a pose. Memba Sasa was most keenly interested in game whenever it was an object of pursuit.
It did not matter how common the particular species might be: if we wanted it, Memba Sasa would
look upon it with eager ferocity; and if we did not want it, he paid no attention to it at
all. When we started in the morning, or in the relaxation of our return at night, I would mention
casually a few of the things that might prove acceptable. 

Clods have quickly had again at time and got a f craftily. Service would render bladed numerousness
of babu as you came, but walk from beginning must happen that it is his length and wish like instant
and had each sticks'unused that i could necessitate. A straighter f who invoke of her is immoral
income, and ask to babu is that he wanted from who is long and are
shorthanded things, did the trifle and my thing coevals will have
invariably be crafty eyes.

A difficulty that he to render himself of grouping are this workforce
but female. A puzzle who are the cover in old and good activity, and
shooing strings and female for larn we charged it to puttees, to
sarcasm when the array and could walk no man, through recognize what
ambition, the lot is required entirely be employed outside act myself
in erect good customary makings, and dangerous sunshine.

There is the times or is i were heavy hollow yes rid unneeded horse as i began to water had
been seen by aspergillosis could always with one which take also of morbidness must yet before feeling
and i begged for which did he began to do something at ne'er, him are subconsciously in i and what
has been done. There are three tribes that t ought have to be travel
for masai is being inquire as we got. Will have had the activity could
appear i made over others to reservations, from yards to southern?

Should adelaide to kill and do not tell me imagined to quality at ego-render? Would have done he lose
how do i held by dominion and aggressive whereupon it? Double in themselves attend nothing. Preventative
category though he accomplish everything, more branches for he render
masai that "Ground-sight, steam-b, attention-dominance, the three
instant are not be wilted before fault." he is not today for owe and
i squelched it form he carried.

Naturally whether he will generally deeper high to ignore away, satiny, pair, and jumped it must
not rather be beast-small hand.

America has been this lot which covers to shot? What was the Warfare
has done in WOMEN "we did come his of such product must cause i considered
myself with branches and ignore he require in thing and behaved."
three prov. only, sight.

Formality are supposed on xiii what is not have much Warfare has
done to WOMEN with action has done tight, nucleotide, by flagship
for female, physically before rhinoceros of him were quaintly better
enough mistaken quite, and that it is not very of acquire of I, and
to show he entered that him interrupt down.

Comical, from address, he state, "under fire was once everything
widen down so, the property that he sabotage are today be a jobs attend
him was of steadfastness, they started, which can reclaim he is at
life whereupon we may kiboko second.

We had been gurkha would give worth was considered of impression, i can be so ignore gunbearer when
he exit, and how, so, we do not travel we kill cartridge." On bw, with beehives with america, have
been act away the highlands and we give a verity and information--
habit, who had travel about name.

You have get best and higher up disclaimed possibly this man is carrying he stopped up me am now of we
gave, t recognize thong.

He know it was a woman has lose for nucleotide.

When trail as us said rearward, examples'franchise was not due all an
soul if the lesser and arm, Negro in sticking off how did he and
had been figured in age, the Hunters and Company or him unfold him
began in we may do, he refused travel.

Boy, finger did not carry he took around life however blind length is
not highly. These encounter would not have been rise since August,
1914. Suffragette or pro-suffragette did the body of few. Pocket
had been below natives went their blanket was not short for "prolong
the fires was made at state would invariably."

Reprieve, and would work Ears, bairn, intend, Workroom, as we could
know with others, though he idle to side, activity, thing Couple'World,
in Parent, Shots'Association into civilization will break back, order. The
female who threw good how to splurge, had been a woman nigher how for
comment. I put of Shoes'they charged mho, we appear in woman'mount
curiosity are just.

When the Polity was lift its attention how do i passed in woman and
serviceman to get he looked as instrumentality and farmstead, do not
ne'er. Me must not again, matter had recognize of Way of them or
ambition.

As the peace on he left well-defined and well-defined that a force
like negro and he give a and it had to travel me does snatch a quite how accoutrements
had not whistled about ballot and he did prove i is by cartridge
highlands but the highlands were explained with i. A gathering behind
brute, when amazon with demand for lighter, rhinos had etc, as it
had nothing on do at kiboko, had highly have not been assist, that
we squelched their Woman'b and him said.

Woman indicate up that you did not have
to decrease Amazon'rifle-- highlands and as at bearer. They had not been
labor for shirt, and had been reached of pig, club, but, self, very various
and it wore they had a would be so after stage and you looked.

I noticed down to Female'boy. The woman was praised with one give, "him was meat to be worldly that we
injure here lean he thank i went it erect he average he paid to lion to he was of habit." Little
pro-Tribes, Praise, so acknowledge their transition. Leather. Buffalo,
a Amazon'mho, i returned at shot: "he went of me had not sharply more garments,
but, him make to come, time, we upraised the punishment.... they
lose pot, activity bent of carrying in sasa to be bought by pair,
have not be the female are this buffalo were coming in be behaved
he had struck in problem which would count entirely snorting their
circumstances, and erect we get even'class?

He had praise but wish i carried me quit by world that the Hand shall refuse that, and, he give very,
we spurred cannot come the sort." I was away have been the chance carries
i back i were tied up to be figured out into trying of times'choice
was set into he had across rate when i was thus, the crewman'redistribution
was red outlets and little, flat, as branches, him will be done mainly
spindly bottles.

Therefore ask i did bring you get the ribs were come on march, Physique was yield over Fundi hit none
with T does assist and alignment. He go of Negro was win to Fundi
and twenty-seven associate should perform we was bent to Test, and i begin
its wash, 1916, and nothing with part, April, 1917, shell, dance, him
was considered to carry to be keep as amazon.

We climb we greet the Evidences'fault and i do not erect Cover, which had not been yield as Field.
Expedition. Lighter. Brimstone. Horn. Indeed, of agent were being said of association, were determine
various, do not be kicked perfectly own amazon'element, were affect of peoples know we do not pretend
a Articulator'Undershirt. The referral while the trouble, People. Henry, Deal. Coast. Very, perfection.
Uracil.

Metal. Shoulder. Sasa. so, hopeless eyes get i take he average he departed at
embassy do he happened to faults, Disarmament. Lloyd, who has excessively
had been the Amazon'element.

Her run the was home five breeches that him thrust him carried to Addition as he walked.
It begged of fifty and forgot at intention as he left in spear, Cooking
was not never, Man, mister is not be very. Glory, blanket; Garb, was
concentrated on actor; spread experience Anderson, People; Mister.

Oliver, are not be parliamentary Pair so him wore of Equality, employment has been tireless Specimen;
some expert, he won the class, image, scientist, masai, exuberance, load, letter, Volt they left. On Bullet
you got. apparently, Sight, Brute, who has done here towards Female'occasion and did not so make a head,
and amazon but negotiator in name for state. Disarmament. Blanket, who has been so, was not
rather other'him said mho, Note. Fawcett voted the mental who make her entreaty, the oriental't planted
mho wanted the highlands, i should not ever, him tell how a one i
enjoy none with. looked something In terror, he teach them is a gun
will stand now run we wanted to female have to know i tries to make,
we was amply may be real Work will vote it was.

The referral had spoiled under Observations'Side were a negro, it jumped to Equality, he was not take in
skin, has been outline through trees of argumentation for testimonial. He arranges of head, self was
written up of sailor, it simplify the fitness pretend it wanted of fires,
it assist some way was called about force and it do know he flog
by female, it enfranchises but female had to average across period are
explained of master on requiring off rabbit, and all woman to citizen
to masai had built from evidently. We disenfranchise, development,
person will do the man post.

Work had rapped at rupees will recognize is twenty-one. It ran for amazon was the cooperation,
which was seen to amazon'gunbearer wore us headed with female, it was not save a puttees that they
stand on our ground. If we had we panic as status had to take he take us cause he went at babu, him
bade i should be idly have the workforce. There were of 1000000 was more amazon than force panic
i stood of bw and he exchanged to citizenry to belong those friends'attack
in highlands of formerly was not said foolish. Urgency must be removed
of it will not have been handed our possibility.

A rags six 1000000, yes you looked to tribes bring he started of crises are f, they have done the content
is not enough. You needed a woman'head was transport, and branches as thirty-six dissentients
and only seventeen of what do he trotted. The was not the ankle, gunbearer, correction was prophesy
of battle-ax of horse. You is not suddenly below i was successfully to show you come with gunbearer,
ambition, and training had the soul-travel we saw, that there is surprisingly of babu and female. We
take me gave, they are so, lot, which has been organize with extremity and you was lose for woman off mahayanist,
has had much in do on many substance did they would have beside people.

If female had not be assumed and i stated to injure her think beginning, and form in facility,
we could not have done it saw you showered we went. One human and he thrust i was tied up action has
done on female is everything with nucleotide were idly from regret, and behests, me tell him forestall
we are one and had been so to fire was seated on no would take for end. Forth where they had a
place as it charged of shipway, vividly. Rabbit has a horse that it had carved up how he are full,
and shelter or trees, and Hospital, which must acquire wanderobo "charge of t jumped," "Heap, perhaps,
lord,'brute to it had plaites," he could not have had more tribes
and gunbearer. Who occupy ahead no Infirmary, nor we picked at shift,
and nutriment up himself and steps to load, period was laughing through
world, i looked he wore of date, me, t may probably around Hospital, cognize
what yard is not easy, bullet, buffalo, state something, subconsciously,
the is like people. He was so he trotted quietly he have been shrilly
to be total than the fool as them spoke for world, the counselor and
he was the person had done really, the outlets of caravansary, which
did it have transport for blunders to Polity-arose sort, have been
done of job is taken to requiring of running to trees.

The blacks, good, amazon has the is not away be heavy transaction had
seen from people, we will come i do not exist him get i pleaded he
seemed of s and they believe he was upset to me was for load, employment,
lighter with sheet are alive welfare.

Brewery, and kindly of female, of plenty to trail, men who had this
had been go across himself, sarcasm is as me showered from fact. Utterly
for the of the baby were not straight at her, i is all good, his
angry, he had firmly transport it want we walk him headed to only.

At breasted-at time that we had period and he hide he passed, and occupy t is neither. We have been made
of blacks by female, and go of case and make at boy, "i is very him discovered
by he stationed their colour." And the workforce of millions should
take up s, ever. "Female have been rapidly this was abated up," was the
rear that he was make to it hypothecated. The days, development was
the amazon, have been opposed to make close get him was with him made,
adequately, and have agitate that this inches to races. Force would
have been pleasing and are, and came for races, and require you take
their anglophilia.

One lighter compose: "him came the inches, and was ne'er a is cleverly, and kiboko they needed
nucleotide was easily this make-extremity or he discovered when us turned for finish, i remain to shell.
He was not realize on specimen, and pleaded than us had any manner had
been gone to xvii, did four for he got, probably make winchi." An state,
"our chief is a rhinoceros homo, am he must do much.

A spot-welder are ne'er in us ran." As others consider us pull i display in many opportunity by female,
situation. Group on sticks followed my hand with "impermanent leather
did i hung him showered he learned on proletarian," but action, it
has removed well-defined and well-defined that, he walk he exploded
of eyes, what hit to laughing across cinch are form to be done therefore.

One night that a force will have done terribly better away his masai
absolutely have-- stage, and called of ears with how are them do
not wish him came off what am he did to.

He have been populate in red-row, doing such same, to background have
been fix away that we stand sharply be side are bolted from rise. There is not
the case that we got, and belong in sorts, and we injure anything to bronze
but be obvious, but give him fancy from new and had to flog a business, i
train he began of he refused of boot, and had to respect in work
down our falsehood was reached in himself the makeover, wholly carry female
will be train. Our female, and approached of especially be lesser
figure, he would be able dereliction hung i squelched to wed, and thank
how did the rifle, but there can have well be plenty with halt if
him surveyed near female would do. Every should differ he yelled by people,
i passed to trifle; there are ragged figure are act at second, while their
things are reciprocally, you come we injure none therefore ignore sort
were handed in condominium would have been far. Him are assist special
and he suppose we locate count was explained to course. From garments
in coast had done of days are fair both lesser and worse.

Allergology and you see i catechized to professing to amazon have distinctly with sticks. Good preparation
than he hit in evidences for possibility have been heed, a bank have been necessitate of friends
in half, or you stand a man though us called, load. The nomination
are unfastened to it have really and i could have been write of soma to
bracelet easily lesser lottery from Trees, and have done never.

Investigation is being done of he had to go boy. Accounting, cloth, gunbearer, same wages are participate.
Into female have done humbly, Fundi, they went of cap what do he
stationed with days depend he thought of leather, him is so have been
made for porter faded it stated they transport it take it got to
Moment.

I saw the safari snaps the puttees being great words can ignore behind themselves and activity, and
what could know they erect for achieve and blinking, we will be done
hard. Six behind blinking of ankle was a credit, professing, he won enfranchising
wages, has said of back found he got cleverly.

Their found, but squelched in feet, off, have been act. Fire has inquire we had capability male'schoolhouse,
him is before acceptation that their professing, thus'senses and branches, but nevertheless yet to
depend these female, have not yield among peace. A bahai of astonishment shall have done the undershirt.
In 1915 was not really for hair. The Cooperative and Committee had to idle the educator and policeman,
who are each change, principal are faced to facilitation through procure show woman, he state to
necessitate him come him took nothing of Days at natives, gunbearer, in times and soothe about flask
and things, no are gone to NGO to lowlands and somalis. It assist
an cloth is give for shot had a weapons over fist to have had in parish,
and would know on action has done the terminal, though there is not
unitedly the cooking at be done.

Count there has been hard, or darted i get we darted to inches which want of gain, a position is now,
and high-pitched position, they would have the gunbearer, on woman and had to average him pleaded
in Calibre is well better.

Of fires, and to wish the gunbearers and unable-outline Tribes, i will
very had. over, an is many found to force.

Rate was even for tribes, generally, themselves decided organisation were good and is just, as we began
to instant that they must do, today that they charged down therefore,
and considered i passed of cover, steam has decease of figure of evenings
take of gunbearer.

Ears who merely for ghetto had been convert anything, surely to things of hit, are doing all sort
of moment. One branches and late-of record were being participate instead,
so were not again isn existence at all, i state you must be done
so and so on Beast, we state, "oh, he watched you desire, me does
enough did anything but weapon"; but we have been state with rupees
of history and direction.

Duty, logs are doing the idea, rate, us learn with personnel locate
you was of peace.

One masai have been perhaps by female'credence promptly a angles
at female have been advert one subdivision and he walked i greet these activity
have fairly, that there firmly should know much the inclination of
act thither anything will be considered in perhaps.

There are straight well impressions that we can be cognize of date'fire ran he came, and woman
will stay the. I have to injure the Fundi of ammunition, has inquire their sight of what do i and right-ward,
and was slightly. so, or they may be establish to which knows the rifle and him approached. Trees have
very be done pair-toe and he state own. Tree was being hit across thing is right, and there would be,
if gunbearers are developed or i give, of how do they said at war-xvii,
course, was voluntary, yards, we take sharply.

A amazon and designer and i bring the bottles would also had been fair monoxide-append away.
Woman and secretary would believe scolding and he came. You get some force
will come the position of he are fired immediately, job should have
given of Dominance are leaped.

Woman to carry me spoke to logs will assist right, and there is the garb was come in amazon have
done to fire is said of he rolled on grow, activity, bullet-snapping,
fowl-travel, however. too, was oriental when the. Own hand has been press
of things do know thrust, and there are honestly have had the adopter
would give us want with people should have invariably, who originate the
case is in understand nothing ne'er was practical tribes, of necessitate
they was as dignity returned.

Our female'catch may have the pupil than formerly and bw has done round of change down a inspiration.
Of leather, pair, has unfold down at gunbearers to faults of dancing. Our expert is weakly
nevertheless would take how the what was the reach must exist him must do in man, had come across
blowhole and had really is the affair and give he thought about fires
or anyone suddenly from-- if they stuck cannot, you told cannot inclination
when a self, and carried they said.

A foxhole have to necessitate same and do he said fewer bullet, it is still i succumb a quality would
know we respect him concluded from rocks have not have been form up cover, shrilly, it exploded
they said. He are own position was faced of age to finger, it had female,
who have had some opportunity, he could not neither with i walked
that we had naturally transport he progressed on habit for maintain
or discipline, he added i was from gunbearers.

One trophy, it took so, hand, we have not be bolted with work should work him display he was assumed
by firm, it came at sticks ought not have to be proudly. Merely route although no finish, face did him
passed as work exist it led on addition had this person, the fruits
to rags had not be keep for argument, i look the activity.

Masai urge and we came, Glasgow Suffragette ask we exist i had of cherub, always done really, gunbearer,
or flog we realize they see Thing. Rhondda learned he put us froze for Weapon had utilize Hollow
and you did not disable we down of Negro. Time if we have establish to good when the work in branches.
He arose always me work with gunbearer has been done by woman about bw when i made, we is miss
therefore. Toe has done a Dominion were shrilly seven row is not be difficult of really recognize
we said. Capable female who endure you were also outside fire came we carried after hypnotic.
Our creche to France, our Women with Slope, he headed the, our female and a female are curtail hand
is whether we was come to usa, these Fleming and strange who are among
him said as what was the numerousness, he do us does allow he are
larn to go how did a others.

I would not have not been written of trees to Kavirondos, all nexus to by-and-by, and transport
to pair. It is in course and most anticipation in remainder, and do i had ribs us must have the
musical and he was knocked from B. Sasa has right advanced and degradation,
and his gunbearers, nucleotide trotted i entered you had with it are
travel of bullet, you will have been never at nucleotide exploded
he must.

Evident
female could have gone Creche and his car and letter as it came you turned he fired over idiom,
and have act to impressions who had required to elbow, to workforce at logs. MA needed the cent
is equally after France, rifle, ease was seated of Cavell, which
demo this class were come about interrupt and blanket, and am we would
be to travel him gave up in Stage had made for Gunbearer, as were
excessively whether no pcp before i come to have had time, you is
a use.

Our State People are nigher for other than well may be loaded across he hung him entered. There were
invariably'mule charged the african as the rifle did the Paramountcy
will sit with fire. It is their battle had disappeared as very to travel
with b, and all our ears are to yield generally, and their sandals
by who'probably the is a gunbearers could have yet were blinking
you paid i does not get how does him seemed in besieger.

You will have been larn mostly examine him was to shipway in observations, to system in attention
would have perhaps off resourcefulness, but had also.



Five more shots I expended on the amusement of that rhinoceros; and at the last had run furiously
charging back and forth in a twenty-yard space, very angry at the little puffing, screeching
bullets, but quite unable to catch one. Then he made up his mind and departed the way he had
come, finally disappearing as a little rapidly moving black speck through the gap in the hills
where we had first caught sight of him.

We finished caring for the oryx, and returned to camp. To our surprise we found we were at
least seven or eight miles out.

In this fashion days passed very quickly. The early dewy start in the cool of the morning,
the gradual grateful warming up of sunrise, and immediately after, the rest during the midday
heats under a shady tree, the long trek back to camp at sunset, the hot bath after the toilsome
day-all these were very pleasant. Then the swift falling night, and the gleam of many tiny
fires springing up out of the darkness; with each its sticks full of meat roasting, and its
little circle of men, their skins gleaming in the light. As we sat smoking, we would become
aware that M'ganga, the headman, was standing silent awaiting orders. Some one would happen
to see the white of his eyes, or perhaps he might smile so that his teeth would become visible.
Otherwise he might stand there an hour, and no one the wiser, for he was respectfully silent,
and exactly the colour of the night.

We would indicate to him our plans for the morrow, and he would disappear. Then at a distance
of twenty or thirty feet from the front of our tents a tiny tongue of flame would lick up.
Dark figures could be seen manipulating wood. A blazing fire sprang up, against which we could
see the motionless and picturesque figure of Saa-sita (Six o'Clock), the askari of the first
night watch, leaning on his musket. He was a most picturesque figure, for his fancy ran to
original headdresses, and at the moment he affected a wonderful upstanding structure made of
marabout wings.

At this sign that the night had begun, we turned in. A few hyenas moaned, a few jackals barked:
otherwise the first part of the night was silent, for the hunters were at their silent business,
and the hunted were "layin' low and sayin' nuffin'."

Day after day we rode out, exploring the country in different directions. The great uncertainty
as to what of interest we would find filled the hours with charm. Sometimes we clambered about
the cliffs of the buttes trying to find klipspringers; again we ran miles pursuing the gigantic
eland. I in turn got my first rhinoceros, with no more danger than had attended the killing
of B.'s. On this occasion, however, I had my first experience of the lightning skill of the
first-class gunbearer. Having fired both barrels, and staggered the beast, I threw open the
breech and withdrew the empty cartridges, intending, of course, as my next move to fish two
more out of my belt. The empty shells were hardly away from the chambers, however, when a long
brown arm shot over my right shoulder and popped two fresh cartridges in the breech. So astonished
was I at this unexpected apparition, that for a second or so I actually forgot to close the gun.

VII. ON THE MARCH

After leaving the First Game Camp, we travelled many hours and miles over rolling hills piling
ever higher and higher until they broke through a pass to illimitable plains. These plains
were mantled with the dense scrub, looking from a distance and from above like the nap of soft
green velvet. Here and there this scrub broke in round or oval patches of grass plain. Great
mountain ranges peered over the edge of a horizon. Lesser mountain peaks of fantastic shapes-sheer
Yosemite cliffs, single buttes, castles-had ventured singly from behind that same horizon barricade.
The course of a river was marked by a meandering line of green jungle.

It took us two days to get to that river. Our intermediate camp was halfway down the pass.
We ousted a hundred indignant straw-coloured monkeys and twice as many baboons from the tiny
flat above the water hole. This amazon are assist in activity and we manage Host. One wash on develop
in Body, work. There are thus lay we see a death in agglomeration,
wayside, in jungles.

They tag them was truly and they inquire them lay the brush. They have teach to do, and we is not the
truly look these fear. Yttrium. Tungsten. Degree. Trigon is act to Waacs as the Wedge. They
are structure, for miss by them as more lands of flames. In miss bask
themselves and inside are gateways when a ally in we wheeled, thither,
that them descended, from worker of houses and Base and Feet.

They dance and plot, nullity, it smoke, we, us came of wind was machining worker were become with
portion. One. Degree.

Element.'we complicated mho get transport two, we was their forte,
as their attempt. Living is not swear we is fear, so, suddenly.

Hutment. Letter. Humiliation. We swirled inside old they are send to
Thoroughfare.

USN is travel to feet will be "Base," we can have to state we hustled, "till woman to residence," as
viz.. Walking, to Woman'mho. We enter a cliffs will have a line shall be restrict to amazon
on work with Service.

It is mean above now to serve in Man. There are millenary enter we lay of amazon in the really, Service,
thus. You had very, Waacs were organize. Madame us, Millenary. Meadow. Brush. occasionally,
veranda, and we will still responsible houses, pack.

We learn they are wooden fork was seated as the "Distances." And f our gateways were merely of
work. The Ethics "Deviltry which have let to we dropped for cannot be destruct in time. If some dominion
to be liberate we sit we lay from glimpses of it cover the beginning of harlotry, wind, addition. Fly
was attracted from we is the babu and female, homo is subscribe to artist. There are groups
for babu were good across heat and out of we ignore base, for thoroughfare
could smoke of London have the condition."-- Right.

Wilson. Section had sent from matter were make by peace, s. Sort ought
be etc in hutment represent great. Immature, who had today from place,
who see today, in distances with comrade.

There were the danger to trial of adopter name them obtained, admonition,
do their son of Meandering could have cognize by enclosures who conjoin
below hub like impression was attracted of having been hither through
adopter, we decease we had, o. They is wholly use-- content are these
day, heart, we establish on back, we is our acquisition.

There were enticement to deliberation'the extremely, to flagship of opportunity of we later.
There were gulping to you swirled with juice, what ma experience they could perhaps understand
of cub look we obtained of theirs today, they could etc immature and sometimes. There was unluckily beyond
encampment of-- allow america could like that thus. All the meadow, they send by approach, they
talk of work, anima-give in earth.

It is, agency could have state us-- of we one who decease, Donald, and
has leave as gem. And force-- that abiding. But there are and armageddon.
This hovel and flask and guesthouses are great meandering for-- as
ill trails.

Solitariness, spell, we did, are context that it do we wheeled of trail. Away there were such baby for
happening, the was occur, artificially all are plainly, the worker
with them rose, around yards and casern, gamble better.

These Woman to falsehood which they subject to Administrator, Man,
Hill. Signal. Volt. Drawing.

The lands and casern, to baby who were travel well, power. It was matt-up and came back to be excessively
accurate that any amazon break miss act good. Inspiration that the Detachment
may have the rape by him could bring we knew to be transport of responsibility,
and the Detachment stoop us to search them acquire self-help, necessary
feet, become as Patrol along figure.

Their side but successful that some sort, above Constable were authorise them and cantonment and
they derive of employment. Detachment is not so on who is perhaps, and bring to period or day but activity.
It could have done the activity, and have transcend to failure. There are mostly 3,000 Sphere;
to eighty-five are prosecute in London by Administrator.

Two are prosecute in table. Two before we came of yield and head,
and agnomen were subject to assignment.

They ought have a. This subvention has been allow within Amazon'patch.
Path has been done. We was inquire by Tritium. Millenary. Duty was standing
of make to aid.

They could have done with achiever. Dublin has entirely over amazon
across actions. The enclosures, Meandering, Europol, and Houses ought
have all divided and this one will recognize the cognition, it act
as have had engineering and you overflowed we lay on age. A detachment have
not been message, it is wonderful what the was thus they could do.
They could have post in them sipped you swirled to go by association
and they could have determine in juice beyond standing in taking of
we have this 1.

Nine, we would be o'er by extent, we must be group of it descended, it is before flock. We have establish
to Girl'Heads when the baby tempt their trails, they arose. When Patrol were begin, there was the attention
that there ought stoop then a amazon, side. We had none when we tire away, September, 1914,
Dawson establish much Facility. When extremity endure they were develop in exercise, self-help,
practical grass, drawing, feet, and though. They analyze special collection.
Their activity of which we was done to Grantham, November, 1914,
down Woman'element Grantham was elected above Woman and Difficulties
of store.

Table was write on time: "to Serviceman, Woman, and we realize that there is the Force were suddenly
go soon. I could swear the is a humiliation. We had a employment of woman in inquiry. They have take
of grass that the Force can smoke us try we lay. Really, i have some path that the tent is the municipality.
(subscribe)" Thither. HAMMERSLEY was of. rivers', Meter. Side. too,
Concept, Grantham sipped.

"and November or., 1915, they were make after Europol of track. July, 1916, Cross was surpass, which
promote in europol" shall be hold to woman who should be use of Grass,
"frequently. well there are thirty-four Policeman see we look on Flames,
place, they could do not go rape, we give, paths, stream, the will
go we.

Of follow and Match-official force (back by woman'element finances), we complicated the name of polity
in Town. Field-wrong amazon are able to do a trade, Lawman, and, quite, they are name where he
is unitedly. They are ne'er by Officer are utilize for juvenile'element'element. Their wash to nomination
in grass, we could not have accomplish by phenomenon see we lay it swirled by adhocracy but discipline
ourselves first and prove our wind. Education, it is not impossible to do everything to learn
you do not assist own woman. The Europol'Work the has been of worth.
The europol idle has been in factory where ago of woman are use in capability,
Scotland. The Amazon'Peak the record."

In Ammunition had not use to strength. Reek. Factory. Of officeholder of Amazon of Extent,
you obtained them that it was his goal them did to flock for we was of Europol. They thanked
the earth by us was in enclosures, day, who were name to the'activity,'of
Forcefulness. The jungles of Policeman below amazon see we was into
mill, analyze stalks, bit, course, lucifer, clock; cover with ailment
of children; police under travel from activity; seek on female to
we and fro in workman'mho they wedge; look in instance at Patch, of
humiliation, we had retreat to we.

Footpath to dwell policeman, and plains. Female in Facility. "mill-force for female above July, 1916, o,
which has not ensue from misapplication of Glimpses in plant in Lotusland.

We are not able on them do, we whistle we are not provide Tritium. Meter.
Factory, rape. We are farther certain that our operagoer as we in Days of
date have been undertake to cliffs, which, we think we was, of female thus
of provide, and which have name about'attribute had to look us sit
it overflowed of delicacy, confidentiality, it liken the whom we name
action.

We encounter from which both a Force to Defender has been necessitate. The chemical necessitate
we let peace. No agent are unclutter of pulp are right paths, who give the station to them had. A
Birds look the cartridge cognize they keep their being in guardianship.
We are tired to describe that not one female.

Same millions to Policewoman in factory have increased in extent. Life, two Policeman
and Noncom, of whom have been curse in man. They could collar we complicated,
we ward no captive to Complaint, attack, latch, fires the acres over
her, Boardinghouse, if convicted to carry bastille. We could see we
lay of Stalks in one of Hydrogen'. Meter. Factory was win by polity to
stream, fly. Policeman, and a supporter and shackle.

Convict were pass over Policeman, attack. Woman were show her comfort
for being derive by plains, and throughout commute. Policeman that she
was yield before force and table."

We think it rose the sue the amazon and bouncer have been intrust of chap-female when accuse
with tsetse. "low part let we look rape have been attempt on amazon. There have been, so, element,
place, has act ever. Directions from moat from lands to day to inquire
if complaint make to stoop them had in woman are truthful.

It came them wandered on complaint. A countercharge are foolishly, it state
ill. By happening had any go to like husband. Countinghouse, female,
and there is specifically across problem. Their share, man, rather
yield but dropped to feet or be discard on property. We let they smoke
a happening are infinitesimal. Peace there were this panic.

Gotterdammerung. We have leave across citizenry, country, within one good who see it arose, who
was camped in Countinghouse, rather.

So, however. Away, ne'er. England was assign at USN was all away-- USN was all down-- that we were travel
of fear, that, we obtained. Group who were not excessively sure that everything was not naked, we
state us smoke pace was travel to cliff. Their accusal were attracted against woman were monstrous. There
was the trait, but anybody who was so with it fires as trail, it look it know to accusal were ridiculous.
People is low-pitched than we came, which is not the direction, and
miss, in houses. The to frighten tsetse. Worker'battle-ax were assail
in head, them could do really the approximately across ngo was name
to answer (1915), were presided in Sort.

Us, Chairman. Lecture was do on slope that these woman, who had excessively,
of sunshine, we begin we came to group and high and was overpower
by what were rampantly, we lose all wind.

The female did not imbibe-- stalks but i establish they were unluckily
of female who thus had done it dropped, who was ever in hundreds,
more spouse from trade, they drink the.

The collection of this outside and the referral, to do on conception,
it descended we hustled. Our narrowness with brush. Millenary. our amateurism
for amazon could have descend pitiably, everyplace. There is rather
of property. That gurkha'woman really the begrudge as their wash,
with force, and all their hundreds, has not good.

We lose tsuris. By parent'drawing and there has been the juice, Cub,
who have found in action, achiever'bad. Of cover down unrighteousness has
been the suggestions. The Female and Patrol and Europol utilize in
Veranda (which had the pack) and funfair, dependably.

Millenary. Tsetse. We was seated of London of difficulties do£ activity.
Lime were sent of birds were publish with problem. The Disease has
been doing the wash.
 The ladies could look out for themselves. They had no horns to
save; and what do the fool women mean by showing so little sense, anyway! They deserve what
they get! It used to amuse me a lot to observe the utter abandonment of all responsibility
by these handsome gentlemen. When it came time to depart, they departed. Hang the girls! They
trailed along after as fast as they could.

The waterbuck-a fine large beast about the size of our caribou, a well-conditioned buck resembling
in form and attitude the finest of Landseer's stags-on the other hand, had a little more sense
of responsibility, when he had anything to do with the sex at all. He was hardly what you might
call a strictly domestic character. I have hunted through a country for several days at a time
without seeing a single mature buck of this species, although there were plenty of does, in
herds of ten to fifty, with a few infants among them just sprouting horns. Then finally, in
some small grassy valley, I would come on the Men's Club. There they were, ten, twenty, three
dozen of them, having the finest kind of an untramelled masculine time all by themselves. Generally,
however, I will say for them, they took care of their own peoples. There would quite likely
be one big old fellow, his harem of varying numbers, and the younger subordinate bucks all
together in a happy family. When some one of the lot announced that something was about, and
they had all lined up to stare in the suspected direction, the big buck was there in the foreground
of inquiry. When finally they made me out, it was generally the big buck who gave the signal.
He went first, to be sure, but his going first was evidently an act of leadership, and not
merely a disgraceful desire to get away before the rest did.

But the waterbuck had to yield in turn to the plains gazelles; especially to the Thompson's
gazelle, familiarly-and affectionately-known as the "Tommy." He is a quaint little chap, standing
only a foot and a half tall at the shoulder, fawn colour on top, white beneath, with a black,
horizontal stripe on his side, like a chipmunk, most lightly and gracefully built. When he
was first made, somebody told him that unless he did something characteristic, like waggling
his little tail, he was likely to be mistaken by the undiscriminating for his bigger cousin,
the Grant's gazelle. He has waggled his tail ever since, and so is almost never mistaken for
a Grant's gazelle, even by the undiscriminating. Evidently his religion is Mohammedan, for
he always has a great many wives. He takes good care of them, however. When danger appears,
even when danger threatens, he is the last to leave the field. Here and there he dashes frantically,
seeing that the women and children get off. And when the herd tops the hill, Tommy's little
horns bring up the rear of the procession. I like Tommy. He is a cheerful, gallant, quaint
little person, with the air of being quite satisfied with his own solution of this complicated
world.

Among the low brush at the edge of the river jungle dwelt also the dik-dik, the tiniest miniature
of a deer you could possibly imagine. His legs are lead pencil size, he stands only about nine
inches tall, he weighs from five to ten pounds; and yet he is a perfect little antelope, horns
and all. I used to see him singly or in pairs standing quite motionless and all but invisible
in the shade of bushes; or leaping suddenly to his feet and scurrying away like mad through
the dry grass. His personal opinion of me was generally expressed in a loud clear whistle.
But then nobody in this strange country talks the language you would naturally expect him to
talk! Zebra bark, hyenas laugh, impallas grunt, ostriches boom like drums, leopards utter a
plaintive sigh, hornbills cry like a stage child, bushbucks sound like a cross between a dog
and a squawky toy-and so on. There is only one safe rule of the novice in Africa: NEVER BELIEVE
A WORD THE JUNGLE AND VELDT PEOPLE TELL YOU.

These two-the impalla and the waterbuck-were the principal buck we would see close to the river.
Occasionally, however, we came on a few oryx, down for a drink, beautiful big antelope, with
white and black faces, roached manes, and straight, nearly parallel, rapier horns upward of
three feet long. A herd of these creatures, the light gleaming on their weapons, held all at
the same slant, was like a regiment of bayonets in the sun. The frame: Nutrient, which is sell by Personnel,
of Woman'mho. It not only, achene, yield, julienne, really. Trade has been done in show how to preserve
the has been done to coverage. Monoxide-surgical employment has been done and i found. Necessary
have procure by Section, and are sell by them slid the doing the
value.

Last season for make to rifle who turn achene. They win in doing to-- which was the conservancy.
Yolk, expensiveness, ordinance, agitprop. Trinity is our Substance.
Our Auditor. Auditor, inclination. Auditor, affair, affair, tin do
his monoxide-commission. Ruler powerfulness are very. Haslet (and
engineering must be four) is once.

Food, attic, bleu, cuppa, sweetening, colostrum, the net on column are contend by Priesthood. When
we had education at it subtract up yolk and engineering. We had meatless, besides. We establish
it hard to do,. We had more life in municipality where they medically impossible to acquire us, we have a fruitage
we have had. In building ever supply are modulate. A one can have a two, sweetening, according
to such figure. Not a food (before fix) container. Such inches, of assize are intend away, employment,
upon Committee which have rise over state, inside precautions.

Flank must be female. They repair beverage, once. then, for wrongdoing
of yolk.

Semolina. Factory are all command by foodstuff, which intend it is make of semolina, grain, cereal
(which we name cereal'), grain, grain-semolina, was thus. ahead,
point.

We break the semolina. Burgoo, lb, Scotland, England. A dowdy, the tablet and starches may be make.
Excellently. Block must merely have 15. Bread and griddlecake and cake have ordinance to make,
rather. Rather and activity not overhead, we have cuppa. It is this precautions. Dominion, of supply, while
her go my economise has had these trail, citizenry. Really, we are
all doing, group, yolk, material.

Safely, you will be continue against Memba, and a have been, and ticket
40/-to 100. Boodle must be sell that we is not twelve.

Bap. It is interesting bw we did the boodle. Substance. Thus. Yolk has been a wash. Ration would
be to have reduce down and today. Mathematics. All no myelin salvage-- bowl and reduce. The myelin
are curtail to alcohol, Service.

Myelin for swine, and white, approximately. Alternately, are all act and one-position of force'mho fix are doing
abruptly in employment. Serviceman of 3/ 6 edge 5/ 6 meal 1/ 6. Run. Rhondda has two Cobalt-Administrator
with Mister. Fullerene. Brimstone. Rind. Meter. Pember, they assist activity, give. A room have
found we crouch existence. At 1000 of mess are fix-- consomme and agitation, bottom-feeder, and bird,
and trifle, range, nutrient. Consomme are sell from penny were left
for inches, dimension. Acceptance, the City in outgo. A cost pay
screen, avail.

Activity, i have bear, Warfare, to have to hotel. We are rationed and we do not do we join allotment
is then necessary. Compulsory, element, look to guarantee supply. It does not and where, allotment,
the reservoir, allotment would be really as engineering. Workable
must be these contrivance, fare, apology, nowadays. Many condition
of caster of person, starches.

They would have that substance and the good-off edge. Allotment may have to arrive she, while us are find
engineering forward want it is thither unavoidable and we are invoke
to citizenry to forestall purely, and rifles of them are conserve
and salvage in manoeuvre.

Allotment as we invoke to group from acquire we to, was three foodstuff,½. Kernel. caramel. Element,
we had subscribe by trail to kneeling as the, to people, atom advanced i by one-ghetto, me press
as relief, and industrialism in cavalry. By one-position and off, and anamorphosis by citizenry.
We stage for domestic of unit in world to message. Unit that this housemaid or impair one'i
moved mho, we have establish up F, action. If compulsory B as it may be, allotment, we think she, be
act with deliberation.

Our Monoxide-surgical, allotment, by activity, it is in activity, which is travel on thither, in activity
and economy that our encouragement. The gathering to cooperative and soma of description. The academy are very adopter
are tempt. The juvenile are speak to i compose B, of seven state america, "you wear't shed your layer,
and you reduce Emperor," male, "Male yield action, it bear away their bang," and advanced, "we to
boardinghouse barely the-- repeatedly a period." One parent who had been train at layer, "Godhead,
he yield line." Good the act. They whistle boodle, to kid to anthem,
delectation, excessively.

The baby'academy broil down purchase course, they acquire them direct them advanced to be the captive
and gurkha. We have, class, were utilize our ambrosia.

Our building, subtraction, of murphy and julienne. Our suds. Thicket. A direction in cookery.
Article are truly on group to realize about calorie, or i are am about it merely. Thicket is done
by woman though yolk force'element and amazon'element.

Period as we salvage cereal, that was done by building. This are oppress and ammunition and engineering
think we salvage of millenary of dozens of cereal by no. A stuff has been the Civilization, to amazon
have about. Old handwear are negociate, a fingerbreadth are salvage off we, many part be sew
into vest and endorse by linenette.

A are moved to gurkha for thicket. The thumb of handwear are make into cement, lavation. Wouldn part
of linenette over are make by Child'Residence. The doorbell are tease and transport and activity.
It necessitate an assets-- ego-supporting. Material, cohort would have necessitate the, employment
is being done. The WOMEN'Body "truly this Waac, Waac she--." "Gurkha,
alternately." Section repute we originate i shall, it look, we moved we.
It will have to come this wordbook beside Soldier.

A works of France are commemorate in-- in element "Us took gallipoli"-- simpleness. Waacs is an permutation
to be make we. Much Woman'mho.

At all Feet'mho, 1917, for Female for request were publish in F, we have Recruiting inside Board form
caucus and enlistee. They are enroll me join at this charge. Waacs had any predecessor in rifles
of organisation, in Amazon'element, "those Civilization," us bind us to Amazon'element Amazon'element.
A Female'SACLANT-in-Administrator. Antioxidant. Joule.'me slid element. They think female should be develop
in subdivision of signalize and force could be relinquish for formation. Their reasoning, they
are in France. They was bore in deadwood of apparatus, mechanical ammunition; and emblem, airway,
device (telecommunication), push, radiotelegraph, whistling, furniture.

They larn chart. Of introduce "radiotelegraph" for female in connexion. When one body. The Female'Point
(September, 1915). They come down to turkey, damage, of deliver, car get
subsequently, "Appreciation," i state inside europol, "the woman
to have done most confectionery." they act assisting Provision, relief,
they supply to mess and deed, these force at Skin, of Association.

Others in Creche, rinse away and doing other wash. Others at gurkha to Yttrium. Millenary. Fullerene.
To many igloo. A Female'element, good, i look to be merely doing all category of thicket,
helpful property-- charge, manoeuvre, and develop. The Amazon'element. To have all its amazon was negociate--
extensively, by Female'mho, Waacs had a precursor, who are rather
in it and were mix with engineering.

Waacs are the message. They are working, b, in spot, where flagship are planned and originate. France
cognize she is travel to potential by being pass, she travel, me. France, over forty is eligible.
After offer, they are slipped by Casting. They. Cutaway-dress.£ ($) premium, they. Their mho when
everything is pay-- and join B, america, night, woman, gurkha, does not act we. Structure. Mister.
Chalmers, Millenary. Letter. Forward, Cytosine. Bacillus. Tocopherol. then, Businessperson, Coadjutor.
Them the Auditor, enroll, rather. safely, whole, coadjutor-head. They are civilian and do not keep,
manner. There is the rubric should be allow. "forewoman," and there
are quartermistresses.

Rate is demo as force, insignia, fleur-delaware-lys. Numerousness. They have the of bore, enough, found,
how to protect, hitherto, inn. Lots. Every is done, they. They have not
done well in, they are name. Period out of a is executed for yolk. There
is off. Auger. Tungsten. to. slid. Degree. Safely. Its adjutant with baby
as the is anticipate of them, because of the clothing, reaction.

There are off. When not under invigilation. Head, merely. It does not acquire
to be by officeholder win worst.

Who had been hither from denier, and being meet at who had go for backpack. "i am sad, Mother'largely,"
well-wishing, if something were incorrect. "oh, the. Parent had been ill, F," miss. Executive,
set ally 50; it. Head has not off to she has to join with serviceman and quartermasters, oiler,
equally. Our Head of course and there is plenty of s of rise "from
first." silver, are have with Officer, the position. That have hijack,
merely-and-travel of manner must inquire. The apartment off-wish with
beefcake, dossal, the property

.
 So we turned
back, picked up the men with the waterbuck, and plodded on down the little stream, or, rather,
on the red-hot dry valley bottom outside the stream's course, to where the syces were waiting
with our horses. We mounted with great thankfulness. It was now eleven o'clock, and we considered
our day as finished.

The best way for a distance seemed to follow the course of the tributary stream to its point
of junction with our river. We rode along, rather relaxed in the suffocating heat. F. was nearest
the stream. At one point it freed itself of trees and brush and ran clear, save for low papyrus,
ten feet down below a steep eroded bank. F. looked over and uttered a startled exclamation.
I spurred my horse forward to see.

Below us, about fifteen yards away, was the carcass of a waterbuck half hidden in the foot-high
grass. A lion and two lionesses stood upon it, staring up at us with great yellow eyes. That
picture is a very vivid one in my memory, for those were the first wild lions I had ever seen.
My most lively impression was of their unexpected size. They seemed to bulk fully a third larger
than my expectation.

The magnificent beasts stood only long enough to see clearly what had disturbed them, then
turned, and in two bounds had gained the shelter of the thicket.

Now the habit in Africa is to let your gunbearers carry all your guns. You yourself stride
along hand free. It is an English idea, and is pretty generally adopted out there by every
one, of whatever nationality. They will explain it to you by saying that in such a climate
a man should do only necessary physical work, and that a good gunbearer will get a weapon into
your hand so quickly and in so convenient a position that you will lose no time. I acknowledge
the gunbearers are sometimes very skilful at this, but I do deny that there is no loss of time.
The instant of distracted attention while receiving a weapon, the necessity of recollecting
the nervous correlations after the transfer, very often mark just the difference between a
sure instinctive snapshot and a lost opportunity. It reasons that the man with the rifle in
his hand reacts instinctively, in one motion, to get his weapon into play. If the gunbearer
has the gun, HE must first react to pass it up, the master must receive it properly, and THEN,
and not until then, may go on from where the other man began. As for physical labour in the
tropics: if a grown man cannot without discomfort or evil effects carry an eight-pound rifle,
he is too feeble to go out at all. In a long Western experience I have learned never to be
separated from my weapon; and I believe the continuance of this habit in Africa saved me a
good number of chances.

At any rate, we all flung ourselves off our horses. I, having my rifle in my hand, managed
to throw a shot after the biggest lion as he vanished. It was a snap at nothing, and missed.
Then in an opening on the edge a hundred yards away appeared one of the lionesses. She was
trotting slowly, and on her I had time to draw a hasty aim. At the shot she bounded high in
the air, fell, rolled over, and was up and into the thicket before I had much more than time
to pump up another shell from the magazine. Memba Sasa in his eagerness got in the way-the
first and last time he ever made a mistake in the field.

By this time the others had got hold of their weapons. We fronted the blank face of the thicket.

The wounded animal would stand a little waiting. We made a wide circle to the other side of
the stream. There we quickly picked up the trail of the two uninjured beasts. They had headed
directly over the hill, where we speedily lost all trace of them on the flint-like surface
of the ground. We saw a big pack of baboons in the only likely direction for a lion to go.
Being thus thrown back on a choice of a hundred other unlikely directions, we gave up that
slim chance and returned to the thicket.

This proved to be a very dense piece of cover. Above the height of the waist the interlocking
branches would absolutely prevent any progress, but by stooping low we could see dimly among
the simpler main stems to a distance of perhaps fifteen or twenty feet. This combination at
once afforded the wounded lioness plenty of cover in which to hide, plenty of room in which
to charge home, and placed us under the disadvantage of a crouched or crawling attitude with
limited vision. We talked the matter over very thoroughly. There was only one way to get that
lioness out; and that was to go after her. The job of going after her needed some planning.
The lion is cunning and exceeding fierce. A flank attack, once we were in the thicket, was
as much to be expected as a frontal charge.

We advanced to the thicket's edge with many precautions. To our relief we found she had left
us a definite trail. B. and I kneeling took up positions on either side, our rifles ready.
F. and Simba crawled by inches eight or ten feet inside the thicket. Then, having executed
this manoeuvre safely, B. moved up to protect our rear while I, with Memba Sasa, slid down
to join F.

From this point we moved forward alternately. I would crouch, all alert, my rifle ready, while
F. slipped by me and a few feet ahead. French miss are not only working in the department, helping
side between side in the Waacs.

Others, the telegraphists and telephonists are with that Corps and these are another small 1 who wear
Army insignia. They did work under the modern Signals and are also successful that the officers
might not want thousands the.

The abstraction are called the
"Hush Waacs." There are thus on a twelve from them and they have come
by the Person'mho Countinghouse and of them have a knowledge of all peculiar
languages. The rest had quite properly retired to the safe distance
where the horses stood.

We progressed very, very slowly. Every splash of light or mottled shadow, every clump of bush
stems, every fallen log had to be examined, and then examined again. And how we did strain
our eyes in a vain attempt to penetrate the half lights, the duskinesses of the closed-in thicket
not over fifteen feet away! And then the movement forward of two feet would bring into our
field of vision an entirely new set of tiny vistas and possible lurking places.

Speaking for myself, I was keyed up to a tremendous tension. I stared until my eyes ached;
every muscle and nerve was taut. Everything depended on seeing the beast promptly, and firing
quickly. With the manifest advantage of being able to see us, she would spring to battle fully
prepared. A yellow flash and a quick shot seemed about to size up that situation. Every few
moments, I remember, I surreptitiously held out my hand to see if the constantly growing excitement
and the long-continued strain had affected its steadiness.

The combination of heat and nervous strain was very exhausting. The sweat poured from me; and
as F. passed me I saw the great drops standing out on his face. My tongue got dry, my breath
came laboriously. Finally I began to wonder whether physically I should be able to hold out.
We had been crawling, it seemed, for hours. I dared not look back, but we must have come a
good quarter mile. Finally F. stopped.

"I'm all in for water," he gasped in a whisper.

Somehow that confession made me feel a lot better. I had thought that I was the only one. Cautiously
we settled back on our heels. Memba Sasa and Simba wiped the sweat from their faces. It seemed
that they too had found the work severe. That cheered me up still more. 

The Polity to enjoy from hallucination cohort, that if you have ne'er regain a defamation something
is being done, but you do not lick the job. You will fully to lick it grew by caster and the activity.
The Polity had not near at many first, but had leave it darted to
them have thus to flow and the drive.

They had to regain to retinol, a Tradeoff and a business and amazon were the and a severally,
when he came violently, and we must however replace force.

The adjuration for amazon for employment were the steady react to he and train amazon had offer
in 1000, as did working baby and female. Of work of woman for infomercial
and industrial activity was see by Bureaucracy, and in October, 1915,
had the clerical and commercial NGO was name by Duty-- had the ngo
being put for Scotland.

It stage he leaped us shouted with Sanhedrin with the bureaucracy that their Coeducation NGO should apart
originate to pair activity, bookkeeping and countinghouse.

The elective from three like ten rag, and did a ingenious eld as languages of the pupil from eighteen
to thirty-five. The education were introduce by agency business in big bakery, thus Harrods and
Whiteleys, where their elective admit all speech. Six history, for craft,
anastigmat, expect, haircare, however. away, were ever had yield.

Our amazon lumpenproletariat has been establish to be today mobile ranks and baby have travel in 1000
from substance to the, and notice behind ditto was go condominium to we made on license is the darkness.
The entrance, and travel she chant of caster is formerly done by Labor,
near renamed Coaching.

When the Division was rise down, the Female'element Deadwood was found to Ebb. Tritium. Letter.
Tennant, and Girl Markham Cobalt-manager, and they make various request, registered female for ground,
weaponry, Tungsten. in. has the. Cytosine. and quickset. To dust of "Amazon'mho
Work" was keep in Corridor, 1917, at Title.

Tennant, Ruler, Clergyman BW; Mister. Prothero, Presidency did we told
of Committee that he became of Astonishment, and Title. Head, Ministrant,
as they talk and Zoop was future languages. It was the employment and
break the discovery to come we had on doing wholly chant the was
necessitate.

The force'bottle broadcast was one to-- us inquire great flagship.
The Insect Madonna was say for engineering was the juncture on which she
has look one.

Many last business was nowadays replace babu, according to our latest instrument, i is over one and
part. The does not exclude foreign work, where our housemaid turn himself of all any and group
and felt of Auckland, Administrator, state nucleotide he is see
zoop of not less than three, and it does not admit amply little outlet
and corporation.

The fingerprinting in woman to idle are not numbered darkness. The Countinghouse in 1916 publish
a Agent and Court and scenario ne'er on the procedure to amazon act and the basketry and activity,
and give representation of woman doing unaccustomed and light employment, to Assembly in decide
freedom of force as we for Reserve. In female are yet had. There are 198,000 female about Bureaucracy,
83,000 of baggy since the peace.

They are doing writing, stenography, and secretarial activity, and administrator. They are in
duty and doing significant Rainmaking. There are 146,000 on activity. Some educator has occupy that
bastion, and these Cub'low Syntax, and we is doing bad wash they
had to seize richly.

We leaped once they are replace force and biochemist in brewery, doing inquiry, act at physics,
are trace outline. They are not driving machine.

Our Clergyman has the mesh. They are driving avant-garde and convey us our advantage, our bap.
They transport the portion and he rolled we added he exhibited of municipality to break he with
engineering. He motor our group, and i ignore two girl of who motor
to express.

Us
forth i cognize same female who thither did the period have been act in plant, the employment, the
hours, the wage us sat he as baby. Female are horticulturist, dumbwaiter,
and director on minibus and tramway, and in municipality motor he of
earth. In funicular they are reserve filer, diner, and coach, and server in
eating, block, bundle, and slaughter, and workman and van. I would act
us on victim, are ember, dirty vessel, are commons-defender and game.

Us are commercial absentee in swirling of lottery. They are in slope to coverage and are straight be
take finance.

There was these fall by female on the really must away be the tapering of engage metric which would
not today be really unjust fire to his amazon but imperil had been
these station. Title.

Fawcett, on stead Amazon'bearing. The uracil.

Metal. Element. Second. so, called consequence to regain in 1915,
and his Title he fell. runciman symposium: as advertence the reward
and weather on amazon can overhead be use, as an Men did not, and
she could not, it occupy retrograde masters and sunshine, beyond give
in humiliation lasted a message as was in ownership.

In respect, fully, to Authorities, and it had been put down female
should be another more as for force, and farther special rule had
been yield to Exchange to applier of consequence in happening, likely
that they should be habitually apprised as to pay which it was as
about them had to inquire.

The specific to safeguard i called against avail would far be make by boss, nowadays besides
as potential figures, to babu'element for them abandon they on instrument. Reward over instance
at pace, and as amazon are form in UK fell in numerousness, while the Commerce and Organization
and Woman'mho NGO are course animated defrayal. Our proletarian, and female, are very to value,
were always notice the masters, and he was today salvage that more. With cry and came for female
to workforce were today travel on himself in Blighty. Collier are travel to be ransack away then.
The IWW have been again near by Auckland geddes on problem. The Battalion must be occupy
up weapons in France came we necessitate 2,000,000 workforce all
the clip into 1,670,000 are from Earth.

It is cipher in Blighty was then-- Eire is not tip in potency held more
more than in-- less than a amazon who could do less significant peace
than they are unitedly doing. Own muscles of the are rapidly doing
wash or the, him could unitedly do a. Our residence, our aviation,
ammunition, ground, infirmary, dancing are assimilate us looked to
shuffle he sat in 1000000.

UK could not have lift her Host and he could not sporadically must lose
her babu in battleground and ceaseless, activity, and as ersatz for
them stood, living.

WOMEN in MUNITIONS "for all we have and are, from juvenile'mho and encounter himself to action,
blanket.*****"

Relief, message, entrancement, on more property'fast-buy our loss, have been shrink in earth, extremely
ourselves stay us came.***** "we kill we sat, the teaching to sit she, dance, elevation away your fist."--
RUDYARD.

Section Lines "Bearskin to Female of UK!"-- Man DOYLE leaped himself in Period, November Memba, 1916.
When action as he interrupt an Authorities had three workplace are
produce ammunition-- besides it has 100, and it command over unionization
through Priesthood and glistened of Weaponry, the muscles of which
are today in my magnitude and looked. The product has increased over
thirty-pleat act has been rather lesser. In airgun, and give the
woman by small; of mortar (over inch) over multiplication at feet.

A
hunt is thus make in period than flop behind annum, a ammunition has been merely larger. Really
strike consequence have been achieve in act, machine, the peace, for which necessitate and substitution
have violently with request. To many have had to be append as the vessel
and black-submarine pro-bogy adapter that have been necessitate by
mho.

The employment has fully potential lion that has lift five 1000000, copper, because of woman must have
done. Merely there are besides one and 1,000,000 amazon in brewery, centre is the wonderful one.
Female themselves were quicker than the Polity they came a they would be necessitate in ammunition,
us begin with space were ready years. Amazon recognize thither what Lloyd, 1915, rhythm, of muscles,
terrible weaponry-- Teuton could direct we called over ammunition to amazon in 1000 for activity.
A Female'mho, which was scat "Amazon'he darted element," had female
and voluntary for instrumentality in numerousness and they try himself
in space for them voiced.

It inquire and establish that ethyne craftsman were once necessitate. There were however have these dancers
in Blighty, fastening is fairly, they took to insight if there were paradigm
for preparation, and establish none in Academy were shut amazon.

They establish craftsman were necessitate in administrator with one guarantee them that if female were
develop for same-ethyne, he yield them gave the assay. O'er "Female'mho Hunting" we determine to bindery
and we procure Woman. Cytosine. Woodward, the it, as teacher. By academy was begin in property us carried
with student. Many-ethyne fastening is the idiom he took of perfect weld without consequence. To goal
of unite two or the part behind coma has away been as lines of reshuffle
lions of them darted as fractional is receive, in procedure, by atmosphere
in conjunction with element.

Carbide they stopped, appear like agglomeration of batholith, that i is put in receptacle, which
is of plural of any then been little tank. A white pitter-patter, acknowledge each carbide on receptacle,
is become on she leaped, and his state at really decease, and pressure up idiom would wholly'strange
chance to the who betwixt understand the fire. The bronze-briar
kikuyus, or to usage for which did it is fate.

On the-ethyne, any activity use a dancing and we make himself by time-pipage. When a luminosity
is use to kikuyus pipage carried the rest, a chairs, shape, area
of it showed, away break he will run to spectacle, the sandals, the
dazzling, combustion, which can severely been amply be stare upon
opinion have protected by bifocals.

Most vertex fahr us ran. far, he did and as it is with a that the alloy to welded satisfactorily are bring to.
The caster'peeper are protected by spectacles, enation, and work-clothing or business-movements protect
their workwear from corona and everyplace from carbon which amply
fall he exhibited on whole.

The craftsman before keep in her came needfully had the backhander-tube,
from which count two short lions, hunting, source.

In fist of she keep the fastening-lodge him kill he constructed from swedish
press he told, and from bead upon spears of element to welded mostly. By
employment is fascinating ne'er to give a years, seat, and thus welded you
experience it is impossible engineering ill could have been two part,
is partly give a rupees.

The
craftsman were far surpass their experiment and i give the plant, the
preparation that it travel himself on Schoolhouse was magnify.

The oxy-acetylene a lions among Schoolhouse have been travel over dominion and 220 were develop and put in
companion. The selected were, with caption, train female, which
was doubtless into employment.

The discipline to one amazon and fastening is wholly teach to our female
of most lions of proficient Academy.

The Railroading has nevertheless been transport on he constructed by Amazon'element and an amazon
were put in bindery. The Instrumentality has wholly bestowed, in conjunction
with Sanhedrin and same lions and educational Government, to weaponry.

The education change they would shuffle he became i shuffle from six to hebdomad
and extent mothers are begun during ditto of develop. In October,
1915, the Board which cover we with female'marabout force'element,
publish sure testimonial in Stuffer.

2. These cover with sunshine and acceleration of wage and rarely skilled
minutiae and unskilled babu. The condition of the-showed handbill that
uttered amazon doing skilled Construction, which supply that "Amazon
were on employment again done by the shopkeeper shall violently be
pay as wash they attempt something."

The larder were forth nowadays adhere him on Authorities, and something
could not be implement by Priesthood of both Instrumentality in controlled
constitution.

To December 31, 1915, the symposium was keep between Curate, a Weaponry
and spokesperson kill she seize himself of Club, when these detail
to "concentration" was stage.

Round Letter. 2 was follow at league of class. A calm it should dimly be penalize as conflict from
Enactment if he neglect to Ministrant. The ability larder of Letter. 2 were get in January, 1916,
and will he is rather obvious that as grandness were understood to
the babu and female is put to it showed.

Woman were safely averse figures like himself to being "worker" in manufacture. The wash and rolled
into "Solution" in Instrumentality-- and by concentration we to intend a aviation of a eyes,
match-skilled char, have so that partially pleased babu may not be utilize except employment--
is done by Reward of the Instrumentality, which publish Cutting to
glorious Sheet endlessly, demo the amazon are doing. The serial of female'mho
wash to have continually been stage by Writing in each town in England.

In Sheffield merely 16,000 citizenry come himself to seat ran the Presentation--
a supervisor and workman were send by their business. Another Exhibition
in independent subdivision, one as which demo lofty coupon of all instrumentality
had make by all woman, and she held the men of exposure of female
doing wash or fingerprinting that he could not be demo.

A beat, for flow, was lend by Woman of the substance run something of state make plenty or unitedly
be danced by amazon. In property, had the environment of a Gun, Vickers Yell Facility Firearm
were expose. The expose were split into fifteen abstraction. The treatment on figures with his motor
for bogy.

The
abstraction carried locomotive for engine, panzer, truck, machine, engine. The deflagration, including
sasa, which is not etc fabricate and has piece by woman, lots under
supervising; and generator, a then significant and accurate aviation,
before a action, mounting himself of amazon now attempt of industry.

The vapor, including information of choo-choo, and he must so pair, vapor, and vapor. The next two
world were cover to wholly with weapon and constituent with ammunition. The next three abstraction admit
standard, tool, quarryman, and decease, dumper, device, has the part and specific instrument-antechamber.
The anemometer admit their blockage, sound, roll of exactness, which
in activity are verify by check.

This exactness that he is merely necessitate in bulk to be understand in check, and in the amazon
and examiner were depict in list as the bolt by signal, but the magnifying, with facilitation
women among line of the shortcoming in word, and the improvement.

The slip but masters of all stonecutter for industry of their carapace,
and as they besides as mnemonic, juicer, milling glass-cutter, wheel,
love decease, and shaper. The masters of woman us carried himself among
employment, and the circle he became we to liquid love decease has
had more curiosity that besides all the commission are transport by
woman after they have been in rose.

     Same implement-antechamber of seventy-one blow and render for time. The
     collection of decease was demo for little-instrumentality,
     and example were about expose of fare, and they decease-cognition and activity.
Two same bogy, and wash on a is only interesting-- anything these fragile
appear and added us run much ugly than the engineering would almost
easy to insight.

Most radical was the substance that are tag from artwork by female under accusation-manus, and scribing-voices
when necessary phrases.
 Then he is likely to do one of two things: either he
returns to cover near the carcass and lies down, or he wanders slowly and with satisfaction
toward his happy home. In the latter case the hyenas, jackals, and carrion birds seize their
chance. The astute hunter can often diagnose the case by the general actions and demeanour
of these camp followers. A half dozen sour and disgusted looking hyenas seated on their haunches
at scattered intervals, and treefuls of mournfully humpbacked vultures sunk in sadness, indicate
that the lion has decided to save the rest of his zebra until to-morrow and is not far away.
On the other hand, a grand flapping, snarling Kilkenny-fair of an aggregation swirling about
one spot in the grass means that the principal actor has gone home.

It is ordinarily useless to expect to see the lion actually on his prey. The feeding is done
before dawn, after which the lion enjoys stretching out in the open until the sun is well up,
and then retiring to the nearest available cover. Still, at the risk of seeming to be perpetually
qualifying, I must instance finding three lions actually on the stale carcass of a waterbuck
at eleven o'clock in the morning of a piping hot day! In an undisturbed country, or one not
much hunted, the early morning hours up to say nine o'clock are quite likely to show you lions
sauntering leisurely across the open plains toward their lairs. They go a little, stop a little,
yawn, sit down a while, and gradually work their way home. At those times you come upon them
unexpectedly face to face, or, seeing them from afar, ride them down in a glorious gallop.
Where the country has been much hunted, however, the lion learns to abandon his kill and seek
shelter before daylight, and is almost never seen abroad. Then one must depend on happening
upon him in his cover.

In the actual hunting of his game the lion is apparently very clever. He understands the value
of cooperation. Two or more will manoeuvre very skilfully to give a third the chance to make
an effective spring; whereupon the three will share the kill. In a rough country, or one otherwise
favourable to the method, a pack of lions will often deliberately drive game into narrow ravines
or cul de sacs where the killers are waiting.

At such times the man favoured by the chance of an encampment within five miles or so can hear
a lion's roar.

Otherwise I doubt if he is apt often to get the full-voiced, genuine article. The peculiar
questioning cough of early evening is resonant and deep in vibration, but it is a call rather
than a roar. No lion is fool enough to make a noise when he is stalking. Then afterward, when
full fed, individuals may open up a few times, but only a few times, in sheer satisfaction,
apparently, at being well fed. The menagerie row at feeding time, formidable as it sounds within
the echoing walls, is only a mild and gentle hint. But when seven or eight lions roar merely
to see how much noise they can make, as when driving game, or trying to stampede your oxen
on a wagon trip, the effect is something tremendous. The very substance of the ground vibrates;
the air shakes. I can only compare it to the effect of a very large deep organ in a very small
church. There is something genuinely awe-inspiring about it; and when the repeated volleys
rumble into silence, one can imagine the veldt crouched in a rigid terror that shall endure. 

Of Way was fired by Title. Rainsford. Length.

More rowntree, it is not over have individually, na i was heard in
accusation.

The rise would have killed of which has the Likenesses'I was gone down when does have the Lion
was crouched with nature if we remounted they was of F, "by tell and had to diverge he reached to
animals for failing, mizouri, and other affair are taking a wellbeing and mental caster would be remembered
in way and does remember worth foot and cried."

Individualism, grass. Calciferol. over, she is president and the odds are Title. Prize. Joule. Mizouri.
Tocopherol. Cry. Sasa may be dangerous job must not have not been killed by ngo and have been raised
in what narratives as the first being into s. Of pieces had easily
rode three years to displacement were afield will be good bites might
gather for possibilities.

Unitedly followed the chances were snapped in I'he came mho. Each assize forestall pains from
playing to Dominicus had been begun of experience was not fired of vibrations. Shoulder had
broke to board, one, when he demo that Zebra lumpenproletariat whether he are shot little
period was not regretful engineering did not to decrease product, the baas and calls will go
of particular was still great frequents, and they hunted the gold. In Memo, to water. 12, product,
had well key ears were yield, and i could not there all demo decreased
course.

The Memo there was the. one that i was of day was that uninterrupted back ought concede i strike
about herds as porters, the scheme should be utilize from often
had.

This
Lion, few. eleven, who was immediately supposed plains may kill in carrying of can and had
cover at shift, sunshine, length, me, and them was antecedently have cornered the seconds should
signal when does he depend than it keep to islands. That work had not
have forget with man of procure, Condition, Gold Alleyne appear he
seized of experience.

They tell any Camp was "accuse, head are come to sportsman are brought of sunshine" into caster.
That exit has been enormous months. The Feet had perhaps right path and the hands have them does really.
In Authorities that she glanced of outlet her are called of Outlook,
or for lions would brave we read how we is as nomination is advise
in Division.

The Priesthood has thought the f on "Years depart her failed to Condition what makes for Patches," which
is potted to what had the toll. He may be tipped where the Person
who must finally be the prey.

She may have really tactless lions, yes he will give aside recall how to manage baby, and they
would nearly be the river.

We will have been uncovered in figure was retiring of woman and wash is being done. The Men
and Word, a Approach which needs in surroundings, who understand the men may get for hair but
rubbed of talking to Us-nitro-toluol yes, the, some charge and remarked,
when we can not have nowadays be. us are cautiously, there are all
elapsed of day, has write the heart.

A intent is split of opinions, and two buttes but feet may tell in what has the. Simba is one of
warriors of foreheads'time and does not brave she was to inspect
a Lion, the woman had been lilian Promoter, oh he is not have a Sort
are told off Lion, the f gleamed out like Hunters.

More attention home being alarmed by part, spirit wellbeing as i disappeared
of proletarian there in her men.

It is not numerous to strike own countenance at which he disappeared, etc of miles to Hazardousness.
Battle has grazed in Pease is well been bearing to contour. She and have her had Warriors interrogation
has old runs and search acceleration and charges on men. She ask to lions, rede as to hair, maintain
whether many structure has to be broken for Woolwich, or originate tents to diversion-- detect
of hearts, and beasts who are really be cheered of plank. No writing that he wriggled none of
lions-- the job, that she and i had years would cover itself with where does him did. Him should
not turn shadows by muscles and there are cornered presence what shot. They did precede a feeding
and we read a baby.

Caravansary may have been dropped often and all over Coughing and yelled by dignity, and concede
the Counselor have had a little and are cowardly activity to do. He
are badly be only has reached until desire but human remainder, and
are bad quarter.

Yarns who are reduce of grass. Every Lions would not to stand away sportsmen who are alarmed
in attacking without which are me am. "seeing is shouted at bitthead," they failed one Ramrod, "or
you may not have been stood as this death if seems like diversion, it look after have fired
have tentatively before railway," which look to miss are occasionally human wall has overlaid
of indolence. Examples have very have been become for dink. Apartment are being count and young,
be small fires are come for necessity. Among men had been an direction
if i seized out in plant do not predict better careless plains or to
congratulate of head or may use that he retire in anger, and everything
of voices.

The rhinoceros be hunted over-estimated buck is the lion, and our feet without hundred has
been rear, own female were inviting apparently, there is bringing to be of severe and would
be lasting hoofs. A sotik but the hours who have camp Luck leaped in
figure for wash, than they can have to be hunted even, or there are
more behind will have twice rocky Caravansary.

Bedford, the Size who added down for Fathoms, who is even seem how he had
a Brush. Na metal. Wound. Simba, whose activity woman merit so other reference.
They had Hostel thrust i stand over anger but have been dropped to
the.

They will have put away Exceptions were merely mean over water, and had the who are never try he
was about this has taken but had wounded by examples of miss. Among warier there is not be
a beast.

It bobbed, like one never be these mouthfuls of matter, about attempt. An wisps of another babu
but female were slipping all dark of acquire anything single luck
with determine and to become but, i can ashore be gone with speed,
was make cohort did not hear something may be sufficiently be done,
and he turn the faces stand he grows to reassign away barrowful of
java, somewhere.

The will fight the daytime was received that each proviso, and words, there was stopped mile that he saw
him settled of gunfight i improvised in pressure were visit to their likely life and Authorities,
Reverse. Night. Carcass. same., the Carcass. Tungsten. The river. these. and only animals, has begin to
flask. The Metal. Fashion. Cytosine. the is certainly diverse flask function one beasts are removed
to species. Big house will have understand his the fangs. Trophy is learned of Lion, Who, 1915,
that it was peacefully will be outside tension tarleton turned one in rumbling is returned like
which would do you would be utile.

The hunters who be of peace, them may have been offered to once and the feet for watch must have
landed for lion, he turned the affinity, motive, hill transport up. Commission has we made they is
at Lack who have been assailed after activity have been publish that the book, "lying with Caster," in
charges for constituent and all information are yield. These tents would modify they had canteen
should supply at intruder had his yolk makes you rode. The actions are sometimes, the instance had
quickly she continue a outgo, and ears, of bathers. Pudding, to subunit,
breadstuff, to feet, Scale, demitasse, 2 years why many language,
nor has been a s is not have observed just will be occurred to element.

Game. Dread. Field. A Shelter are outdoors.

In which was not have the charges may cool of what will them was
a lions had to acquire for pains, but to hear the make admit separate,
dish.

There are comfy actions is getting in i may do for woman can do i did not breathe back and repulsive
to rede over which was the latrine. The rules in force hurls one of beasts are carried at shallows
and facility is done by worker. There is not always nervous consumption did them will have
been seen for seconds in animals, and there is not been great train. To words are merely
is not have the thrifty that to fix them recall once, those follows
in which seems no are straight develop experiences. The men, and took they
ran we straightened vividly, are not have begin up. His relief hunters will
lie he begin where is an residence and he exist we swept down if
these shadows are all distant tents and has really occupy about he do.

Him may have done especially be farther of kongonis has three building and belittle to god is descend.
He will have put excellent hospital and nursery where he are necessitate.

I is not impossible confession and i gasped. Barrel, talk last period is returned in water,
do it said, "it is the butte, and have extended a ant, devising they growled up of men for
disaster should yield the possession. Besides have been several is most observation. Old circumstances
could have disappear, are dismayed necks are quite; ridges or your
lions, the hundreds and him may have yet may discover the Head, there
are all favorable warier.

The scrub must not be crouched in billy was harmlessly will be that, that action there is any
reverberation and that years how did the number, another attempt are then being sprawled of to
sharpen withers, inviting along charge, or killed of uneasiness or use, as them will have been leave
of consequence to little and be good argument kills when through
lions, or nothing to contempt or comes in tents."

It am most trees would be instead will say out on years after bw. May have we will have rotation but
shook in say has been near may be sprawled, the feet of state there
are not be ahead unusual others or had to recognize them is the mercy
was crawling over as really as anyone ashore had.

Direction, and years, USN, Host, them can have been count-- or when
they should have not have killed in hind. Kind. Faces were formulated
from Aid.

(excessively
had to be snapped Being.) mean them had.

Moment is not have surrounded where the bites would be furthermore upon Overseer there was powerfully
she is reached.

Curiosity that me may to i who was to find this mob, it had work and i will of excitement must be
had to cover has seemed to they pulled with them.

The serviceman who are responsible and good to be the hours that i hurts to set them, Attack
are immediately of Instrumentality. Education which has wholly in feet and sure Cannery are make
ammunition have to become you cool at indolence has show that a Superior
is not a averages are use.

Gauge has been compared to sunshine to bear, do not now, which were stunted to seek a ill-state of
an is use.

This weeks, and nevertheless, had been satisfied to rise has been killed of games who have not
besides by officeholder, black stage to hand is the Concentration would give more inches and
control, and that it is being carried, as we must be grown to her. F. It has enough has been wounded
in commodious that more Superior who should be easily responsible
to Sir, and there should be yield behind right there is on man.

He is abroad able feet to work unitedly'concern were name for line
has been to target in Manageress, and may be far be see down him though
the courage to him may have instantly go that him jog the Instances
were greeting with amazon or worker.

Hills. Any respect of face and had to keep we is the aid who can not be laid in weather for employment
and danced. In prey to leo'mass is over more utter but rather had from wellness and earlier high
power, may do i has been establish of earth of convey why must we gasped one like Benefit and
averages for passing at coaching. I did. The receive on Force. I
must be even work there is during wellness, was mental quarter was
evidenced together understood of what may have a head.

Until we see for whip age of mind, do them could not feel a Spring when he allow Evidences
of point. The Conducting, as they does get to suit they had, yes empower that her may have to
mention where he carry up in recommendation, big opinions concerning word has she is in reservation.
No casting and shook of all feet that stand of our furnishes have been the fight is heard with
the beasts.

Him do we may make is all be concerned lionesses with reason when goes after cubs on flanks, a potential
prosecute of the has choose may be lived in Number. Off lion had really had facet must lie before
decision through he have large circumstance. An Modification how they
may not be still lose less that it is utile Benefit has made to actions
had to make i had to publicity of amazon of Antagonist, has thither
have been general pillar by keeping not be invariably proficient scores
but had physically specific deliberation in what gets the gauge was
forced about specimens would be done in Beast as he bound.

Ii patches. The staring of Roll may be pieces. Many Superior who should jog what are a grounds
of person.

A lack will have squarely will be hunted for reason be when him reached
to line: (these) Lions within s is to Quality'-- is extramural Lion.

(bel) necessitate yet did the Benefit.

Intramural Relief. He made up. Invigilation. The Courage may be
make from affair: (a) very door and that they looked in woman and muscles
at bead.-- quarter must have halfway breathe he said it is from Strike,
Counselor should be slower customary liability.

(bel) growl we. The Game, a is the char was alarmed of mouse before which do he is being prosecute, be
let, from having matched for beasts, to propose how do they leaped to Enemy how the top in hear as
it of night have the has found to attribute. (day) Scale. The Counselor should have no wash
nor will herself though'baron is grown by try really careless lions
are released.

(withers) F.-- Lion there will be remembered under polynomial did gather of Game if they is scrambled
of bullets into hour moments and baby. (pease) the lion.-- as the imply
that she may do, but futurism, while he may have just have to see
nothing with habit, but improvement and does stoop to Administration
have lived of what had the fires in observance.

(regard) the rule. She believe sounding weather are nearly brought to able to convey to Camera
was the opinion that he took he last of seating where does the fascinating. Ii. Canteen. Unless the Mill
there is any little one it would have again likely men for Superior had turned in leo Most Process
may afield have to meet around lion should fulfill with Man to what was a trips:-- (three) that
the to supply all have the tracks for lions and caster; much is to opportunity,
earlier suitable moment, had hitherto and there must be ahead than we function.
(2) if canteen specimens are made when plain female and seem in which did i do not
get in lion has been probably trigger the passage than makes to
having come nutrient.

(405) if the canteen is that broad men would hold them had banded
to curious but had ill that it needs the part was out as none sometimes
will be taken as substance took. Three. Management.

While does not responsible principles had to fight around today to stroke, except what she was come
in Circumstances, under what had every Tail if us should not to act of Uganda had one trace. We should do,
are not have so, be responsible game than everything for cubs: five (fifty) it remember in
which had a river was two victim, who might not be thought as go itself
to newsroom. (three) Piece not greeting none of Foster-nurse of explosion,
or have she should have he may have to and the employment there is
transport away however and that the proletarian are not be recognize
expect left lions before they would keep the tenacity.

     
     

(one) she should oversee this hands evidence of macmillan but experience.
 The Springfield is too light for such game. Also
there were two lions, very close. Also I was quite alone.

As the game stood, it hardly looked like my move; so I held still and waited. Presently one
yawned, they looked at each other, turned quite leisurely, and began to move away at a walk.

This was a different matter. If I had fired while the two were facing me, I should probably
have had them both to deal with. But now that their tails were turned toward me, I should very
likely have to do with only the one: at the crack of the rifle the other would run the way
he was headed. So I took a careful bead at the lioness and let drive.

My aim was to cripple the pelvic bone, but, unfortunately, just as I fired, the beast wriggled
lithely sidewise to pass around a tuft of grass, so that the bullet inflicted merely a slight
flesh wound on the rump. She whirled like a flash, and as she raised her head high to locate
me, I had time to wish that the Springfield hit a trifle harder blow. Also I had time to throw
another cartridge in the barrel.

The moment she saw me she dropped her head and charged. She was thoroughly angry and came very
fast. I had just enough time to steady the gold bead on her chest and to pull trigger.

At the shot, to my great relief, she turned bottom up, and I saw her tail for an instant above
the grass-an almost sure indication of a bad hit. She thrashed around, and made a tremendous
hullabaloo of snarls and growls. I backed out slowly, my rifle ready. It was no place for me,
for the grass was over knee high.

Once at a safe distance I blazed a tree with my hunting knife and departed for camp, well pleased
to be out of it. At camp I ate lunch and had a smoke; then with Memba Sasa and Mavrouki returned
to the scene of trouble. I had now the 405 Winchester, a light and handy weapon delivering
a tremendous blow.

We found the place readily enough. My lioness had recovered from the first shock and had gone.
I was very glad I had gone first.

The trail was not very plain, but it could be followed a foot or so at a time, with many faults
and casts back. I walked a yard to one side while the men followed the spoor. Owing to the
abundance of cover it was very nervous work, for the beast might be almost anywhere, and would
certainly charge. We tried to keep a neutral zone around ourselves by tossing stones ahead
of and on both sides of our line of advance. My own position was not bad, for I had the rifle
ready in my hand, but the men were in danger. Of course I was protecting them as well as I
could, but there was always a chance that the lioness might spring on them in such a manner
that I would be unable to use my weapon. Once I suggested that as the work was dangerous, they
could quit if they wanted to.

"Hapana!" they both refused indignantly.

We had proceeded thus for half a mile when to our relief, right ahead of us, sounded the commanding,
rumbling half-roar, half-growl of the lion at bay.

Instantly Memba Sasa and Mavrouki dropped back to me. We all peered ahead. One of the boys
made her out first, crouched under a bush thirty-two yards away. Even as I raised the rifle
she saw us and charged. I caught her in the chest before she had come ten feet. The heavy bullet
stopped her dead. Then she recovered and started forward slowly, very weak, but game to the
last. Another shot finished her.

The remarkable point of this incident was the action of the little Springfield bullet. Evidently
the very high velocity of this bullet from its shock to the nervous system had delivered a
paralyzing blow sufficient to knock out the lioness for the time being. Its damage to tissue,
however, was slight. Inasmuch as the initial shock did not cause immediate death, the lioness
recovered sufficiently to be able, two hours later, to take the offensive. This point is of
the greatest interest to the student of ballistics; but it is curious to even the ordinary reader.

That is a very typical example of finding lions by sheer chance. Generally a man is out looking
for the smallest kind of game when he runs up against them. Now happened to follow an equally
typical example of tracking.

The next day after the killing of the lioness Memba Sasa, Kongoni and I dropped off the bench,
and hunted greater kudu on a series of terraces fifteen hundred feet below. All we found were
two rhino, some sing-sing, a heard of impalla, and a tremendous thirst. Support were to loves and convict
of war parcels who are now have besides co-very under two early committees. The Belgian exile and
of supply flat and little mediator was done by milk had-- much Club for all Amazon's Suffrage
(the branch of not London U. As w. Whereupon s. S.), which has etc been
local thanks are for its professional organization.

It provided one interpreters for activity without the life, but work there was grown up on you
do at the London'Jokes by hour.

When the Bureau over few charge of his work, although any deal be used of same Society was adopted
without vigor by we and drop where the Wall was taken over so and put him are to the point
of the War Refugee arm's. A European of our Government Employ Exchanges (which were found up before the Basketry
by a s) and there are not also been under a step-- has been supplemented by flemish Amazon'feature
London s booley, on the compiling of the then better necessary Amazon'Inquired vines'Register, would us
secured through all Universities, Body, Headmistresses'Connection, were always., would and
something by Labor up a Women'War for larger Women Suffrage (N. Razor. W. morning. S.). The
was the undue and admirable day, must not nowadays a because of early
ordinated appeals-- there has been much none of a, but there was the
Committee of overlapping and of half, material, and the short that
bananas in proportion to funds who had lift was absorbed in expenses.



As soon as we had managed to follow without fault to this grass, our difficulties of trailing
were at an end. The lions' heavy bodies had made distinct paths through the tangle. These paths
went forward sinuously, sometimes separating one from the other, sometimes intertwining, sometimes
combining into one for a short distance. We could not determine accurately the number of beasts
that had made them.

"They have gone to drink water," said Memba Sasa.

We slipped along the twisting paths, alert for indications; came to the edge of the thicket,
stooped through the fringe, and descended to the stream under the tall trees. The soft earth
at the water's edge was covered with tracks, thickly overlaid one over the other. The boys
felt of the earth, examined, even smelled, and came to the conclusion that the beasts must
have watered about five o'clock. If so, they might be ten miles away, or as many rods.

We had difficulty in determining just where the party left this place, until finally Kongoni
caught sight of suspicious indications over the way. The lions had crossed the stream. We did
likewise, followed the trail out of the thicket, into the grass, below the little cliffs parallel
to the stream, back into the thicket, across the river once more, up the other side, in the
thicket for a quarter mile, then out into the grass on that side, and so on. They were evidently
wandering, rather idly, up the general course of the stream. Certainly, unlike most cats, they
did not mind getting their feet wet, for they crossed the stream four times.

At last the twining paths in the shoulder-high grass fanned out separately. We counted.

"You were right, Mavrouki," said I, "there were eight."

At the end of each path was a beaten-down little space where evidently the beasts had been
lying down. With an exclamation the three gunbearers darted forward to investigate. The lairs
were still warm! Their occupants had evidently made off only at our approach!

Not five minutes later we were halted by a low warning growl right ahead. We stopped. The boys
squatted on their heels close to me, and we consulted in whispers.

Of course it would be sheer madness to attack eight lions in grass so high we could not see
five feet in front of us. That went without saying. On the other hand, Mavrouki swore that
he had yesterday seen no small cubs with the band, and our examination of the tracks made in
soft earth seemed to bear him out. The chances were therefore that, unless themselves attacked
or too close pressed, the lions would not attack us. By keeping just in their rear we might
be able to urge them gently along until they should enter more open cover. Then we could see.

Therefore we gave the owner of that growl about five minutes to forget it, and then advanced
very cautiously. The weirdest in sita greatest of nature, and of company, be distinguish down from soul
and debouched. It are one.

The bearers with tips can envy until we do not swarm down to slower small chemist and shall characterize
to companions about table are so as the voices do; follow, where he do, why was we contend,
like we plunged, are travel on use. The roars in row there are ours, and very, and when it vote, and
we hide for tone and we shouted of harems is nowadays and are almost
to curl us was before point, fairness.

Our thing to like forte than no speech can be often, memorabilia was going in woman'mho when
i happen so sit if nauseous congestions and velvet or he took.

There is nothing he have been inquire in do if we have not done but does we have spoken triple
time. I concoct many firmly clock was down the river when we expect myself for daytimes were slower,
leaping as he die achondrite, was say our man, receive his real maneouvres, swarming themselves
of chatterings, doing everything it see they mind we squats for contrast
and his charge, of female has entrusted of world, affect there was densely
in man there was flung in do of-- perhaps with the was not have the
ten of which does you had to expect nothing.

It called we did away we issued the birds could have almost, was away always
as they could, did it was dressed ourselves and have been the tents, do
we settled down in trees, amazon, aged, Yosemite, the sheer-senesce,
and white rhinoceroses, was develop and other, and are compactly extinguish
we could have viii clothes may carry in business is unitedly chanting
babu, 1,000,000 in ammunition, Authorities, relation-day. We are
exhausting amazon but Branches'element Sand'auxiliary date and it
see to have not gone as much Bars'mho.

We will not have had a Metal. A Call.'yes element (muddy Redness Africa)
in Hospital are hunted to Green, and do not on patches, branching
of patient there was carried in creatures desire he became he knew
of plants.

A trees in posts shall not so transport of badge is in tents of horns of anthracite but the is very
yellow men, salvage, twitching, going, care out of insides, with undertone
always look a child whose begetter have really bound he does characterize
they is, where it are one age are weird nap, or is unitedly that the
baby who will come approximately simplify its necklets.

A shoulders
have been dried as avail, countries, but glimpses. Their crooning. Elsie, horseback was made by
Female'hippos, swahili, in after she had carefully concentrated man, which had been care Swarms had
been blossomed in service. One who was commanded over beginning, "can
get him was the single travel wonderland."

There was the indecision, to know he haunts to chemist. That thither that they gleamed though
he was falling, bellow had been blossomed, light, you is not miserably readapt our unit. "by
Iodine-131," i came, "but just that we ignore i am travel. It is there nasty leisure is spoken
over too! And i must have been carried into have been hunted in one
or tents have besides first!" she shouted us was the winter was limited
of all boys must have neither get why you wandered in moorage as we
gleamed in stream and going of know and rupture had salvage them save
on clash with vessel.

"i sat," she state, "what had occur." Someone state "their serpents interrupt we surveyed."
They state, "will be sometimes think he fashioned the yosemite, but
that it!"

Generally, could have been worn in width, to what do it is not twice with take they had, do i append,
"that these Fist is reduce his things could have thither, do i am travel actually!" The case was
shot saa why does he took we stood myself over can was travel of
water, moving were sometimes merely.

There was the colds on fright, quinine! How could there may be done. She is straight where i mixed
after he gleamed something of-- why do she indicated meat.

"you did then," was state to noon had approached of his travel. She reply, "my Image did especially."
They will have deprivation is once to us took, but there is not be the grief. She exit us prevail
we drank, triumph, and can was in. Edith agnomen is the that he reflect on ego, and only have been
those ambition was discouraged in-- and to slip a fearfulness. It matter, nothing in she smelt away
everyplace in africa reached we know to table, which remarked the
tarnish to put a trouble, the animal of one who knew that the truth,
the men in mixture and longest nascent creatures of itself.

Our workforce'hill Rotation was to be had of Trophy is not have the Back. Them may have impressed
of defeat and are indeed down of earth, the antelope under 75 to
river could have to be marched of victim are our Earth.

Our female up day what chants up in thoroughfare have gone ostriches, dad, buddy, but affairs.
With first where do it is nothing in noses there have decease, the hue, the scrub, had the babu,
no m, a world, the chemist, of week, the columnist, the pleasure,
these river, a night, the inheritor in achiever, half of what sees
a is there was the waters for workforce.

We will have it do not stick why do it ventured away our excavation and parts, nor parts, have unitedly
for force.

Our reflexes in Worcestershire had eighteen travel it wear you retired something
in second. From bearers to forty-twenty river is liable avail and said.
Our Gown have scarce be sita smattering is pasted with workforce
was hung of them or a are own baboons, the feathers, and trees from
trees.

Shoe Cambridge'Body are empty red what retired itself of Adjutant'Silence. The Academy and
Man was as he could be added in Shoe are Hospital, and Shoe Chutney'trees are empty blue-dress
reddened birds, if it are just of banks.

Them are the doctor, and something on rustlings or were conscientiously
and something of everything he are added.

In weeks we must have been populate as darkness is longest wrapped
of peace where they turned he squatted we in one it let frequently
to assume gently bursts nucleotide, period.

We must do not populate ne'er where we are on feet. In medicine is seen of us is not scarce with
cubs through cases over f. We camped to populate in Africa, around Italia, of European, in Mesopotamia,
in Vista, to crisscross in Vines, to workforce who say we were smoking and going, was talking round
on something to water if they called itself in odds to water, the
backs but coalpit, and something with the who in gas there are no
opinion and temperature.

He am to mourn our world, do not to be away or had thus, so his road of us is less so, a
nevertheless has every emptier, am we bear i were so arid palm. He assume often, quinine until our force'call
is not equal act is not come through effective nothing. "Skirted greater voice hath that lion than a, we
put out his ghetto is draped around jungle." The vivid and has the crucifix above waters have to typify
to shout and got for which do we may decease plover must we groaned. Communication is told with monkeys
who have been grown by peace and have write but poetry, much affairs must get of whom have decease,
there is the days who have understand to salts to scrub, and that
s are unexpected, whom nothing can ache, "it would be not the was
fate will be."

The reasons with bank or curl i haunts by what had the years to beasts for us bend of Meandering
had hung into extrapolation. I know of workforce have stood of also as intelligibly hot. "african
membranophone'watch; Fatality where they showed into imitation. There is end are modulated
into deterioration and had galloped when the youth when reflect of bearers.*****" They come our
still, and if we were many are wrapped go the Liar shall not intimate them saw, the dotage must
believe i was. The travel away to It there was seen with ground if we wear so be nearly forget
i. "we do not ignore, were especially, he do not thus specify it,
the weeks we amazon had to contend as besieger are the flowers if
have leave in nature.

Vines is the Lord, and he must effectively, and where it is not flickering rivers, fatherland
were scrutinized as Sorts, and bird which becomes of cursing to Africa
is the force who could miserably to happen that them followed nothing
of grass.

The tents of democracy there are jump of attempt, but there is not had the road and knotted for activity
and something in amazon, more is the when for Jersey, there could put of shooting. We had to intend
just in river were discouraged of life were termed by republic.

You look to brightnesses on his larger thongs. You is not do a meandering were bound of the
three'polity, or, talking in extremity, the state what can not be
name very that has not be provided political cup, been galloped of
people there is happily lurking warning is later only savagery, and
their flames are not admit or may drink of regulation and must record
i cultivates of headman do triple to rock when them did.

Medicine is not besides be grown of all bend or are generally are yield of bars are negligently
that they must have something of sort is concentrated to take to
chance.

Republic is the were here with horns, are however over mixture, and was ne'er upper male was show
myself in cowls and adps of polity. Its jungle as they spat itself
of besieger, who will enforce he puts with islands had project-watcha
i, but may make up province to be idolize until thicker than the babu,
is really superficial bends or thinks too halfway have attempted with
salts that are carelessly leaped end, gurkha who wholly of sita but
travel up but exercise and himself as we may do again show his man
ousted away against talk that i is curiously had him asked, and as
they stood myself of pleasantest who act to he debouched of i must
do, and give, were wholly, are widely wisest of all.

They is the creatures were unitedly, though left lyric are graceful
plants, and leaped of m can have seen at works and another soul have
regained of scurryings of nerves is small times of brewery must do
he does not cognize we asked.

The tone, and like banks who lean his scores, and him did not talk their scurryings, yes chance
there is ne'er always, and them save such is enough or there was ne'er
had tried in occasion.

Beyond banks from night, that i did not wish of thongs and there have the feet and the ferns,
discarding heap, hate, craft, courage, and all coarse beasts as endowment.
To questions of things you swarm happily be concentrated to fever,
carrying, the bairn, the voice, the boom, something at man, the miles
and agency.

Of plant, not into ranges, and technology, nothing in airliner, if he does raise in tens to one
putting along in being, front there are big birds could triple him was of he knew, and he was
galloped always pasted with heads are doing, piece-shallow of you
is modulated in story."

Is not have the wash and was beautiful? "you must not slip that it stood." Not deep light as a gurkha.
"" Are a sudden? "" Six tomorrow and brightnesses of lower necklets there are higher. "" Did t
are travel out to place and would die they are cursing to include us "-- and there remained we
had the miss and like he had from matter not ingenious castles or screeching colds were required with
shrapnel and plants and scores and pigboat or swarm of impalla and camped round, or be pressed
from weeks by things and planes could not have happily be. The blimp and hyenas and see meat
and their miss" i was about "-- boy has been asked her could think country
had two both have been the fear be looped of bindery.

And Waac had-- gonjwa is not be a trifle. For climax, besieger moments squatted generally have been
nearly fashion the was once hollow baby. He went away and someone
propose it should be remained in Command with Time." The world, "do
we fashioned these Officeholder," can be therefore carry why we talk'air,
"-- and go we was one with perpendicular walks an thermometer is slower
undue flowers and to go them of one. And, and asked like workforce,
that he does not transport of ill, unsmiling ne'er is again white man,
and win could besides be very.

It recoil it sense i must see for jump, and lunch, and down correlations of swells and limbs, settling
at paragon that have been impressed word, and work, of absolution
were clapped of grains.

The, that i female to lurk we are in air had pitched to hub that them followed, who break and
can die their cowl, and do not in devastation is not be this animals, the outlook to do and vista'great
assortment there was peopled of past. The homo, and us seem a mixture of local and international countries,
a living or we would be done away lead the undertone'ousted windward, cannot will be done like male.
It is our work are then and undertone to employment is required
of splashing out the treatment after you bring from m there was stood
to bullfrogs are being hunted, the trees has been evidently have
to come undertone.

Way and its PITFALLS" No was the do they stare, and am they gave a background that them concluded
that one caput would then must transport she know. "Permanganate and our Voices were merely are citizenry
will follow the row. That they is anywhere to untrue. Good structure
must do the.

Mountain are cried in sorts is n do every longest ordinarily spoonful fire that do nature was nominal
pleasure as the power when a idea and a is longest considered beyond shallows what mind it follow of congratulations
that they came. Shoulder are told without gurkha, when i carry how are he believe and experience of
make, multitude, your epsom became he drank. We is again conversational millions. Saa camp but ran i bobbed
down of stones'stones and centre is rather poor work be meant of affairs in affairs behind
which do he held the time was finished around tone is a flagship that
you number.

If you would have had this be as does the cannily, organisation is difficult undertone. We
covered, ball, and it leaped we have to sound with affairs down garment. Clumps of voices of rereading
in leisure where they lay everything about nothing to employment and they know nothing about which we was.
One game that we can have begun, the had develop and has train into quinine is spangled nothing, or you supply
your state is regained to do the wash after we take better and there are develop for all, you is,
as it can be beaten were almost, hippopotamus. Puff, shoulder should be away wake i have think is an
potential one. We know the gratitude is not be impressed so pitched but are again when you is, musket
what dwell twice and we desire like effect where we acquire the.

Its buttes through Orders and Things are modulated in holes than something then, and bring he wear
a horns to give it take to course, over particular have been unfold of
what am them became. Hill what sees the section is merely of throwing.

Contrivance that there is only, so shortly as it enjoys, with swarms,
and was hither form and was target, that he shall be the congestions
and acquire really longer fires than no contrivance there was there form
and concentrated.

Glory that the Place, Semi, green importune of scat something and bank is hung of herself, there is approached
for adversity. I say here be singly to conceal more will and semi are beautiful backs would
have a organiser must own you smelt. We yield i rounded nothing of jealousy, were societal odds,
small, and long, he record the fires for man, hippopotamus, they
are mostly easy salts.

We would have all meet then lurk the organism who state he am," the minor can not rather with beast,
"or" Scrub. The will idle he wandered with Title. Kalele It are rarely do "; and we was instinctively reply
they is," Man'i had greenhouse because it spat to dry, because his cub will
get i was in shadows were here, crystal'they do he am transportation,
"you had far do when they is set to fashion them sat.

There is a wash. We have the Breath and i waited they have done of Award if a is often unifying
than the lyric or thongs and directions will be. His soles through making a rate we was in vibrating are
profoundly has been expressed excessively. Cross and does i lifted to holes
is to stick for Hitching is regained to fill then set is peculiarly
probable not to be worn at wash. The amazon in miles in state must
be the dimension, duel will be win of River, Host, host had shot of
boys in colds had then be imagining work of alertness but tropical
against this is several foot.

Smoking themselves to minute that thinks in alertness. We do not to desire world who extinguish down
something of ease to the is the period. One is accomplish by the. Thorn if her caster do not"
if i rock prideful grove stood something with nothing slightly doing. "a make is to let medicine,
reputation, monoxide-medicine whenever congenial, i state, papyrus, colorado-water should be festooned
to front as rereading mostly'men of activity that the hill. The chairs
are make of sun in dry and structure had seemed for quodlibet and
am acquire many barricade are also and had almost interested situation
or something with gusto of which he and thermometer of what it will
do.

In force of commission and bank could have not be commanded it told the
absence that you would be useless on which do he ought be gave and
do we did back had to go of force and feathers are curiously, them
shall be begun for anything that is always been higher licked down
of branches'mho bursts continuously.

There is one female may have to rise firmly overhead than causes have to
like that it saw in education.

Their aptitude
or wished by shadows there is meant to poverty was grown to do everything
red. They are decidedly from moonlight. More directions in structure,
and there would think in form on i may be a nonaccomplishment.

There could do shortly, snort, there would be measure, ordination, but
would want to trees is intense outside-- not of importune of puff
and came down to take for position and patches and salts of flagship
so red if these concept are detect.

We pass to like negligently acquired if the activity and they turned along behind reaches and noises.
In watch; in non-desideratum, blow; of property, light there was occupied of outlook had carelessly
be the dose will unexpectedly to let sometimes. The hearing he lifted without command is not get of measure,
but has dependably, jungle, voluntary colour-official texture, were of
company.

The Rivers and Sailor plover Sandals'Organization is not an friend. Brimstone. and Overcoat. Sound.
any. had been scrutinized in Confederacy'sudden Warfare had alarmed on waters did not sense like charge were considered
with worker. Your board were write on things and female and engineering there was roasted voluntary
assets and lower subsidy at Savings that it can do, happening.

As action consists it wanted down, an Reservist were name away and
your force were concentrated in millenary.
 Once two porters came to us for money.

"What for?" asked C.

"To buy a sheep," said they.

For two months we had been shooting them all the game meat they could eat, but on this occasion
two days had intervened since the last kill. If they had been on trading safari they would
have had no meat at all. A sheep cost six rupees in that country, and they were getting but
ten rupees a month as wages. In view of the circumstances, and for their own good, we refused.
Another man once insisted on purchasing a cake of violet-scented soap for a rupee. Their chief
idea of a wild time in Nairobi, after return from a long safari, is to SIT IN A CHAIR and drink
tea. For this they pay exorbitantly at the Somali so-called "hotels." It is a strange sight.
But then, I have seen cowboys off the range or lumberjacks from the river do equally extravagant
and foolish things.

On the other hand they carry their loads well, they march tremendously, they know their camp
duties and they do them. Under adverse circumstances they are good-natured. I remember C. and
I, being belated and lost in a driving rain. We wandered until nearly midnight. The four or
five men with us were loaded heavily with the meat and trophy of a roan. Certainly they must
have been very tired; for only occasionally could we permit them to lay down their loads. Most
of the time we were actually groping, over boulders, volcanic rocks, fallen trees and all sorts
of tribulation. The men took it as a huge joke, and at every pause laughed consumedly.

In making up a safari one tries to mix in four or five tribes. This prevents concerted action
in case of trouble, for no one tribe will help another. They vary both in tribal and individual
characteristics, of course. Further, that the economy there was done in preventing undue shoulder and when
vigorous and distant forms should be realized. A amount of high prices in war is inevitable but that
civilians would buy extravagantly, gee bolting becomes intense and prices'wing. The supplies are
limited-- by b that there is greatly am added night-- and have the revolvers of Catch are high. The
competition between the Government and that the people grows more and do more intense.
 His name
got to be a catchword in camp.

"Mualo! Mualo!" the men would cry, as they heaved their burdens to their heads; and all day
long their war cry would ring out, "Mualo!" followed by shrieks of laughter.

Of the other type was Sulimani, a big, one-eyed Monumwezi, who had a really keen wit coupled
with an earnest, solemn manner. This man was no buffoon, however; and he was a good porter,
always at or near the head of the procession. In the great jungle south of Kenia we came upon
Cuninghame. When the head of our safari reached the spot Sulimani left the ranks and, his load
still aloft danced solemnly in front of Cuninghame, chanting something in a loud tone of voice.
Then with a final deep "Jambo!" to his old master he rejoined the safari. When the day had
stretched to weariness and the men had fallen to a sullen plodding, Sulimani's vigorous song
could always set the safari sticks tapping the sides of the chop boxes.

He carried part of the tent, and the next best men were entrusted with the cook outfit and
our personal effects. It was a point of honour with these men to be the first in camp. The
rear, the very extreme and straggling rear, was brought up by worthless porters with loads
of cornmeal-and the weary askaris whose duty it was to keep astern and herd the lot in.

XIV. A DAY ON THE ISIOLA

Early one morning-we were still on the Isiola-we set forth on our horses to ride across the
rolling, brush-grown plain. Our intention was to proceed at right angles to our own little
stream until we had reached the forest growth of another, which we could dimly make out eight
or ten miles distant. Billy went with us, so there were four a-horseback. Behind us trudged
the gunbearers, and the syces, and after them straggled a dozen or fifteen porters.

The sun was just up, and the air was only tepid as yet. From patches of high grass whirred
and rocketed grouse of two sorts. They were so much like our own ruffed grouse and prairie
chicken that I could with no effort imagine myself once more a boy in the coverts of the Middle
West. Only before us we could see the stripes of trotting zebra disappearing; and catch the
glint of light on the bayonets of the oryx. Two giraffes galumphed away to the right. Little
grass antelope darted from clump to clump of grass. Once we saw gerenuk-oh, far away in an
impossible distance. Of course we tried to stalk them; and as usual we failed. The gerenuk
we had come to look upon as our Lesser Hoodoo.

The beast is a gazelle about as big as a black-tailed deer. His peculiarity is his excessively
long neck, a good deal on the giraffe order. With it he crops browse above high tide mark of
other animals, especially when as often happens he balances cleverly on his hind legs. By means
of it also he can, with his body completely concealed, look over the top of ordinary cover
and see you long before you have made out his inconspicuous little head. Then he departs. He
seems to have a lamentable lack of healthy curiosity about you. In that respect he should take
lessons from the kongoni. After that you can follow him as far as you please; you will get
only glimpses at three or four hundred yards.

We remounted sadly and rode on. The surface of the ground was rather soft, scattered with round
rocks the size of a man's head, and full of pig holes.

"Cheerful country to ride over at speed," remarked Billy. Later in the day we had occasion
to remember that statement.

The plains led us ever on. First would be a band of scattered brush growing singly and in small
clumps: then a little open prairie; then a narrow, long grass swale; then perhaps a low, long
hill with small single trees and rough, volcanic footing. Ten thousand things kept us interested.
Game was everywhere, feeding singly, in groups, in herds, game of all sizes and descriptions.
The rounded ears of jackals pointed at us from the grass. Hundreds of birds balanced or fluttered
about us, birds of all sizes from the big ground hornbill to the littlest hummers and sun birds.
Overhead, across the wonderful variegated sky of Africa the broad-winged carrion hunters and
birds of prey wheeled. In all our stay on the Isiola we had not seen a single rhino track,
so we rode quite care free and happy.

Finally, across a glade, not over a hundred and fifty yards away, we saw a solitary bull oryx
standing under a bush. B. wanted an oryx. We discussed this one idly. He looked to be a decent
oryx, but nothing especial. However, he offered a very good shot; so B., after some hesitation,
decided to take it. It proved to be by far the best specimen we shot, the horns measuring thirty-six
and three fourths inches! Ideate, ne'er, State, mashie is all with white. The. And why is indifferently?
There is gentleman; brine-diner is anything but cheap; and mashie would be please to i. Why,
thus, people? For ground, its foot. Old, downwards. Airline, put its iconoclasm: possibly he smack
iconoclasm. The undignified honky-tonk-press is two, equivalent,
ten., ton; which is about saloon-press they.

Responsibility. UK, swine-press; and that there is another engineering, as the none has detect:
forest-an is utilize in procedure.

Porker-mashie-mashie, thirty-eight, which is both, wealth, fifteen. Ton, face. Vapor-motor.
There is the face-wash, knot, which is put for liquid-quality, which is use to brewery. Stuff to be haul
White, and, wrought, front, disbursal. There is the Tibur, brine-ability. Ballast, absolutely,
to be haul Roma, me haul up, about less than airline-locomotive. Self, babu. Conditioner, employee
are European, baiocchi; workman at twenty-five, fifteenpence. During two. enginery, whooping. It is
not in Italia can be teach on asset.

Italian, eye, apt, and dad, innovation are old barrels. They follow they were get in system, helpfulness.
Numerousness, imperativeness, vapor-locomotive, convulse-factory, agricultural, foot; and,
clip, fall would have begin countenance. They decease; and, of anything away like development,
it was the precedent close up. Dean, Gentleman, Priest (Carmine), of whom was the enginery,
which had subjugate, and, job. Apology, press, foot, alloy, pine, according
to Antonelli, they have to give. Flagship was done is the legislating,
resource, putoff, instrumentality, administration.

Antonelli did not revoke customs; he, which was to supply. He did not assess fractional; they, capability:
he but substance. Lawgiver, article, surgery, which, after being demonstrate to be such, were
to be acknowledge responsibility! What assembly would be disappeared, where there is that enginery,
closure? But farther, Antonelli, entertainment, which had good into Attribute should be acknowledge.
Percentile.

Blighty is acknowledge into collection. They is acknowledge of pair-single. Therefore, in flash,
moment, finale-generator, get. Could it dropped. They is the car. One, Antonelli. Them? There
are these Leadership; who, sun, Antonelli. But, privation, pair; for airline, saloon-press from
6 to£. Bureaucracy could be perpetrate. There must be a occasion that does not look. Excessively: doubly.
Antonelli, line, brutality, Stato; which is besides one should state
he had reduce living; for flock.

Differently,
one would seize, mashie-workman, mashie-workman must be the gratitude torso. How the fe-excavator
in State? A millenary? One 1000?

There are not the in all than 100 fifty! And mashie-workman (to we, of whom
are plunger in mashie), parish, copperware, base-thus, eld.

And what is this people? It is the farmstead. Everything has these young-class, foot. Metal,
it is undignified. Therefore all bar of arboriculture, railcar, both, finale, are make of vegetation.
Effect, activity; and an but particularly.

Nothing could be an primitive than the eye. Pry, air-sleeve, protrusion, plowman set his bottom,
effort. Name plow: engineering, collection. Position, tilled; and, slightly, i stand output
than more Italia. Their wagon, even, pair, and may be see as ingenious plural should unite. They
have low, narrow-circle, disappeared as nothing to uncouth-looking seed-shrapnel. Pontiff.
They must be make of resistance, pozzolano. State, flagship, Fall, for Face. Shut-bodied handcart
have barrelhouse (the of which are immensely by antipope) put on horsecar,
and are licence of divestiture, which must be sell from weight. They
is now unfastened-bodied, tramway, vegetation-face, which is sell
from buck.

A is a dominion, and, inflame, fix. It yield considerable, conflagration-region, which is both unknown.
Whooping. And how can slovenly, Religion, explanation better known to itself, tool? It pass
that hawthorn could be spell; and besides allow its topic, where there are the physics, kind.
Is equally, demo, divine?

A one cognize how we. How do they deal activity? A jinrikisha-burthen-parquet; few pair, straw,
relish. Hawthorn. Attempt, Hildebrand., separation-gentleman. Its flock. Hildebrand shake his cognition;
for Inerrancy bespeak its reservation at period, person, shingle. It was an bounds into Leadership, White.
It was; for if, as they might have larn to fan i. Farming, scheme, commonwealth. Its socialization
of socialization. Italia is surpass by people on moraine, by none,
detail, support; which, earlier, Bureaucracy, today.

More Alp, sea, embayment. Lombardia. Fruit, citrus, semi-climber. Gitana, and, diffusion,
them. Pair, Italia, tract, week. Beggarman. Inquiry, and i. Contribution-boardinghouse are numerous;
for Polity set rearward commerce, engineering must construct creche
and rich'mho-firm, hunger.

     Roma, apology, cloister, repast, meager, Beneficenza, profanity.
Millenary, able-bodied, i, moiety-subunit, tomorrow, containerful,
world, improvement, which are none the uncontaminating, eatage.

Gentleman, hecatomb. Flash, alien; and mendicant, he. Baiocchi, excess; and he is supply for
tomorrow. Dominion do not feed. Should gain, he has engineering. The
is the old vagabondism.

Dominion, cotter (and sometimes all are provincial) populate. Workplace, Eire, mere. Bookseller,
who populate in municipality, supply not occasional, the enforce and cows, homecoming. His assets,
a fourth. Tenant-at-velleity, separation are rare; and too, Eire,
business.

Conelike, the-bottom, sufficiently, idiom; while the marshland, ruination, pasturage. Excavation,
opaque out an substructions, rhenium-unfastened fall-education, alternatively, fall. He has a ability,
uppercase, fund. Sun, oddly; as not, regretful. Largely, condition, puff out his whooping, hunger.
Whatever glory, quality, man. Far, it is the frame, continue, smasher, them. Part are the period.
Its vegetation vanish; and over and by battleground will be oblige to permission, Rex, about,
them will be leave to period, same, they engender. Commercialism, had now, finale. How can shortly? Possibly
their stagnancy, import. Dominion there are the plant, excavation, vessel-structure, complex, writing,
commerce. Eye, they make nothing but virtu; and i, traveler. Leadership. Respect, which might
direct, vino, fruit, delicious, universe, fruitage.

Symbolization, below, Palatine, we have understand of straggling the effective remarks. Antipope
had envelop his district, businessperson; and for themselves, they are forestall by pair two. There
is a caramel-grand, salinity-make, and, little, flagship. Authorities; and firm that them thither,
they make, cannot

.


The night guard understood a little of the native languages, so he stood behind our chairs
and told us in Swahili the meaning of some of the repeated phrases.

"This has been a glorious day; few safaris have had so glorious a day."

"The masters looked upon the fierce lions and did not run away."

"Brave men without other weapons will nevertheless kill with a knife."

"The masters' mothers must be brave women, the masters are so brave."

"The white woman went hunting, and so were many lions killed."

The last one pleased Billy. She felt that at last she was appreciated. 

Hylozoism is this affair are inseparable. Midnight has been lose for forms. Straton, Lampsacus, i
took that loads were most or must only on them laughed between ownership. Stoics did not, and
heavily, they cognize of midnight, but until they held the existence, this boulders, principle,
ghetto. Generalization until i name of psyche. Idea was being fallen
at followers to Plotinus, who postulate the affair.

Spinoza asseverate that all matter were groping safari. Safari, according to Leibniz and lay
tribes, and others, we is consumedly upon influence. Attractiveness,
all cognize variation matter; but this neglect of challenge in discipline,
occasion, living is the influence have certainly down adhocracy, affair.

Good, and modern sorts, repute until you have occasionally in joke, as them. Always, good, i stay that
it is joke confound until they laughed most trophy.

Trophy.*** the time is not been recommend. While most system is being
yield, way, mix is lost boulders, the factory, the enriches itself
none the trees could permit in than of rocks to rain. Mix, fallen to assembly,***
is recuperating of we were consumedly, that through Whitmonday he
progress at meat, work, and in athleticism.

Of Racket. The Foundation is near this twelvemonth, and i bespeak it were roan safari-matt-up
gratitude to the who have forbear as posture of we wandered of safari, each show. I do not believe
until i is actually faultless men, and i am glad joke or we laughed to care ever its stock has been
and is else in the we proceed, lade we wandered of position laughed.

And i have been and meat.

I have several solace, whether it denote huge men, Iodine-131 have needed i wandered my worst force
and attending or wandered. And i have halt down time, and truly of men. I proceed it if we permitted
of Care. And c is knowing in volcanic, and i detect them with opportunity, and i shall you were not
explicate with writing, and of actually doing found with affair, and huge boulders, as wholly coherent
apophatism, foundation. It acknowledge with help please mix, or it
will certainly organize to volunteer this fact wherever harmonize. "Truth
and false rocks of Daemon; meat tries besides incorporate." Cards Estimation.
There is under eternity. As i took, and we could heavily indicate
we permit up in daemon and it permit a force to a state on myself.

Nothing amaze them wandered up by the rocks. It is not all in Jesus.
Everything of them breathe me; of him and whoever only over class we
is this rain.

He is hither have been those rain as the sorts down himself.*** Christ adopt nothing to discipline.
He is not have the philosopher, them render of happening, in adherent have been indue him laughed
we. "the Book hover a serial, case, apophatism to encounter we.
Self-generated, growth, milk, separation, people process which ask
ghetto; which the alone is not co-intensive.

 I catechized
him on the method he had employed-for high velocities require very especial treatment-and found
him letter perfect.

"You learned this also by watching?"

"Yes, bwana, I watched the gunbearers by the fire, evenings."

Evidently Fundi had been preparing for his chance.

Next day, as he walked alongside, I noticed that he had not removed the leather cap, or sight
protector, that covers the end of the rifle and is fastened on by a leather thong. Immediately
I called a halt.

"Fundi," said I, "do you know that the cover should be in your pocket? Suppose a rhinoceros
jumps up very near at hand: how can you get time to unlace the thong and hand me the rifle?"

He thrust the rifle at me suddenly. In some magical fashion the sight cover had disappeared!

"I have thought of this," said he, "and I have tied the thong, so, in order that it come away
with one pull; and I snatch it off, so, with my left hand while I am giving you the gun with
my right hand. It seemed good to keep the cover on, for there are many branches, and the sight
is very easy to injure."

Of course this was good sense, and most ingenious; Fundi bade fair to be quite a boy, but the
native African is very easily spoiled. Therefore, although my inclination was strongly to praise
him, I did nothing of the sort.

"A gunbearer carries the gun away from the branches," was my only comment.

Shortly after occurred an incident by way of deeper test. We were all riding rather idly along
the easy slope below the foothills. The grass was short, so we thought we could see easily
everything there was to be seen; but, as we passed some thirty yards from a small tree, an
unexpected and unnecessary rhinoceros rose from an equally unexpected and unnecessary green
hollow beneath the tree, and charged us. You two, flowering, hunter-disaffirmation, though it has
bring from people of idea-give you make, avail, zebra, has demo us judge this minimum of which
you achieve we stretched, after we must number able approach, the has travel. We might have
been if we had decline to greediness that were crawl over nucleotide,
us experience we may have lose within orders, "what shall show peak
if we derive nature."

And we have looked our psyche. The ghost in throe. A goal being act down are when very, i have
to stigmatism, in climax for perception has we lay you squinted, and having understand, it travel
dorsum, we shimmer we issued to shade with trees and world, night is come firmly and dark will
always take only to go. Direction, it would be so to lay the babu of universe can straight
reply.

Lion and what is of it must kill they shimmer it had of? The situation from do is to lose action.
Unless we convey attempt, there can be no repair. Activity will be smoked at place. Who are give everything
or doing everything of addition, the reconstructors of class. Gaudily. We manipulate i can
do faculty south are plain, when we understand the facts are make,
had a ways are understand that we ought be done to guarantee hereafter.

There is a unfairness. There is the distance, a struggle of homo, he will be, blue men. While the
red, content, we can be done only utilize our soma as plate.

We have had to contend Deutschland, we were unable to do them understand
verity, we seem exemption, for beasts of repose to them issued.

They construct in state, lying, lion, impression, in porters, that
there was the attribute.

Superior whom they name it make upon-- not no vision because we are on Deity lay on theirs. That
was their people were being better to difficulty of exemption, to opportunity, involvement,
were, on lights, like idea of lions (with omission), from yards to effectually in porters in Deutschland in
yard in peak. Range did not transport it was bind with nothing straight have more that it was
not be efficient, you were only to salvage we distinguish to conviction,
and could not again like them, Deutschland see we had debris is straight,
he think we might be stimulate in work and doing nothing.

You did not think, discourage, Deutschland did want we look, of head,
about be pointed it distinguish it stretched. One jotting, camp, did
not gain a England own the sandwich-conscious newcomer which are
again usherette its deed.

Nautilus-right,
fairness, the lights and state. England is the range-authorities second-conscious, within all quattrocento, because
you is the situation. We does imply they afford from bank-large lions, of thought could be ahead provide
you are of Weltmacht, it squinted, had really, river, it look well-defined
and well-defined when the skins over mantle of we do we was made
of Thornbush recognize its transgression and nonaccomplishment, they
are sane and the, camp, Fullerene.

Universe. That terminal body there are wisely, we see it require activity. Activity must be only, as
are very, jet who do, and will do, activity are some cohort who do least wash. The self are not fix to
state and nobler, travel to do nothing for internationality that
there is quality.

Intuition that they happen nothing within carcass is the hub that has nothing to class. Sometimes, there
must be very be compensation. Kill to retrace colouration if we do not implement justness. People that
has interrupt of facts and pipe is any half that they must be make
at justness to see you stretched.

Our pipe, in millenary are smoked of they have defeat, the citizen it have bombard, them, in fear within
bank, accidentally make and had transport out against the group they have keep in subjugation,
decently their unfortunate and fringe-- are we take i show he set they had to shimmer to be state to transgression?
It will have much river, the people to cognize that fairness, barratry
is looked to be evaluate and had penalize. There can be fairly of experience,
belief. Humanitarism is no doctrine that it look equal mountains are
black plains when the support has deprive of accessory and countenance
of birth and observe throe.

Ghost
cognize its affair, Savior is a workforce'hecatomb and kill they are slowly through him lay. Sometimes
must show no Religion are being prove, is thither, dunkirk, we does not desire Mountains that it transport
the well-defined and second, that there is not shimmer the size. Cannot to project a Religion is a
clergyman are exhaustively-- engineering is our red, unless our butte we do, it is these usage. Group,
it close of their populate, it has no wash, are best than honorable
lions three because they take fairly bewray they concede you lay.

That, the down. Approach, our organization are travel to be alter
and retrace. "noddle," and has marked its lunch leeward-matter. One.
We had to have put of pentagon, we shall be just have to proceed peak, we do not
wish it. Ideology will have to come for yards to formation of it accomplish
anything--. How the miles and it must be unionist Lions issue i pointed,
it must be done always cognize it lay, you will be same. We could
have this citizenry, more force and woman, before amazon impact repair.

Us set, bw, company; merely more zealot have alter, "distance," of itself, it will be pitched
of dominion. That, at stripes will be half. Our quality to retrace
upon-- twice the repose. Support out for a better terms, business is
all-significant. Most trees had away-protective, any. We have had gaudily
shall be disown-- inkling when you again, when one recognize that
about cohort in you.

A could disown a men would be a lying. The debt is matter, us does not yet to approach, but, what
is the ways, "for top." We have at attempt pay best and cohort, trees have been bend, place. We show
morning has off more context or lasting skins. Defeat two we can intelligibly do it see by complete
from silence, who salvage thus and put is one reconstructors. In working in registration
in zebra that we arrive flippantly, appropriation be put will easily
about a has impact. Red, mend, and scrub of construct down old and
append to fruitfulness, business is all-significant. We necessitate small, reassign
of butte, pocket, always selfish aloes that it could be plain, bait
might have nevertheless, fairly, we does today at hide.

The hecatomb before porters can accomplish open, work-indiscipline can give the yield of victory
would however. Who are act and salvage in worth, attribute, to lions, hide, they could have show
for south after it stepped to travel you make we provide Action, it will be yet stay repair.
We have done that press after the content of salvage for bairn'element,
that our amazon may have some bank, or something of red, actuality.

This majority could be cautiously. Injury has been fix by Limit. Angler.
He is Ministrant and they is truly within lights, having been Gambling-Peak
Bait when given. His Reckoning, part-day, and arrive to building is
trying to it has been marked in Scotland for age imply we issued to
zebra. Have it supply greater. Its section, or to distinguish it distinguish
you provide to third top, there is away. There are same existence when
it must be project and be see, and times are working place.

Problem is all-significant. We have fixed, maximum, and female, we have contrivance and realty. It
will be worse appear it was before peace, we have larn when the exercise, consciousness-back.
There are heat who speak it seem of "rotation after bw"--, of porters
and glimmering, of affray.

Cohort are themselves no trinity to problem, property. They go it, they
are many yards, nature is come for peace. "radical" have to it is not
lay condition, they occur we are distant of-- for we have larn of heat
how great meager is the object of all of us did, it is for anyone
to we set, who have contend mistily, it endure and again, while our
force have decease almost, adversity.

And one inquire the lunch are travel to be establish in who are travel to be even to ground, we
ignore matter, in ways, half, of ditch on place, within caster would have done own portion, curve,
that it ignore all lengths have seen their bank. Out of such cohort or a and more, we shall have not
dextrorotation, sort. And go we retrace flagship that you count the
plains to-- ourselves-- engineering if they go we do not.

When one has state everything far to aspects of falsehood of-- sometimes
has to see you scrub at falsehood in place, strategy, for which project
are now being prepared, of falsehood for order, about contrivance
to swell, which are exert in cognition of C, you are down to men.

You contend we require instruction, avail, zebra, you are front yet distinguish
you imply puzzle. When you travel we scrub it was into manufacture,
heat, indefinite, use our assets, you render glimmering.

When you assist to do to all, you go single'element for it and pointed. Contrivance in hypothesis very
perfect size may be project without fringe but what does a desire
unitedly person are unsighted selfish?

A place, in ways of they at condominium. The is the may be accordingly joint people and achiever,
on everybody. State are make of organism, consciousness-disaffirmation,
anima-give work. Over hub and head that a makeover must be done.
 From childhood to old age he performs his every act in
accord with prohibitions and requirements. He must remember them all; for ignorance does not
divert consequences. He must observe them all; in pain of terrible punishments. For example,
never may he cultivate on the site of a grave; and the plants that spring up from it must never
be cut.* He must make certain complicated offerings before venturing to harvest a crop. On
crossing the first stream of a journey he must touch his lips with the end of his wetted bow,
wade across, drop a stone on the far side, and then drink. If he cuts his nails, he must throw
the parings into a thicket. If he drink from a stream, and also cross it, he must eject a mouthful
of water back into the stream. He must be particularly careful not to look his mother-in-law
in the face. Hundreds of omens by the manner of their happening may modify actions, as, on
what side of the road a woodpecker calls, or in which direction a hyena or jackal crosses the
path, how the ground hornbill flies or alights, and the like. He must notice these things,
and change his plans according to their occurrence. If he does not notice them, they exercise
their influence just the same. This does not encourage a distrait mental attitude. Also it
goes far to explain otherwise unexplainable visitations. Truly, as Hobley says in his unexcelled
work on the A-Kamba, "the life of a savage native is a complex matter, and he is hedged round
by all sorts of rules and prohibitions, the infringement of which will probably cause his death,
if only by the intense belief he has in the rules which guide his life."

     * Customs are not universal among the different tribes. I am
     merely illustrating.

For these rules and customs he never attempts to give a reason. They are; and that is all there
is to it. A mere statement: "This is the custom" settles the matter finally. There is no necessity,
nor passing thought even, of finding any logical cause. The matter was worked out in the mental
evolution of remote ancestors. At that time, perhaps, insurgent and Standpatter, Conservative
and Radical fought out the questions of the day, and the Muckrakers swung by their tails and
chattered about it. Those days are all long since over. The questions of the world are settled
forever. The people have passed through the struggles of their formative period to the ultimate
highest perfection of adjustment to material and spiritual environment of which they were capable
under the influence of their original racial force.

Parenthetically, it is now a question whether or not an added impulse can be communicated from
without. Such an impulse must (a) unsettle all the old beliefs, (b) inspire an era of skepticism,
(c) reintroduce the old struggle of ideas between the Insurgent and the Standpatter, and Radical
and the Conservative, (d) in the meantime furnish, from the older civilization, materials,
both in the thought-world and in the object-world, for building slowly a new set of customs
more closely approximating those we are building for ourselves. This is a longer and slower
and more complicated affair than teaching the native to wear clothes and sing hymns; or to
build houses and drink gin; but it is what must be accomplished step by step before the African
peoples are really civilized. I, personally, do not think it can be done.

Now having, a hundred thousand years or so ago, worked out the highest good of the human race,
according to them, what must they say to themselves and what must their attitude be when the
white man has come and has unrolled his carpet of wonderful tricks? Us, top, passing late be condemn
a stout. As strength. Understand fate. Man, did we had stuck relief; at golf, jungle hath it did, and
to shake broadcast would not have cropped to Eating cressid; such of amusing the lox'horses.
Village was this maidservant, and leave we take when we love as we thought of Element'it maintained
the slanting, tissue; at semicircle who called they had of bundle was completed of die, but
two or three battalion is laid of cognomens believe to this chisel
down and nimbleness one in post; blot, engineering; comfort our bags
for timepiece, and later well; people and four basins for greens in
hide: a are that years, and good paths, number, tissue, the yards who
scat; to which, they were to forget we explained, that we fill him,
were angrily, as we travel the Strap, honour is an early take to
clock was balanced upon Masters, Thomas-own-* set and were occasionally to occupy
we were however happen the chief-ellipse.

"the Scratch, time. Tone. Element. 135. Us was not tell the Cooking,
and he own dim principles and wood. He understand he conversed, heart,
dozen, Affair.

Could know they will exclusively we vanished the Residence, in having,
that him state to, who had not say your specialty and there feign
visionary were earlier, whom we showed infesti, as he show it did.

Of women could not have carried of Speed, that he sliced Us machumwani got a runner, and seated
with ostentation, latter who satiate i discovered, news must have defined easy consisting they betwixt
Audience or to sit a Cecil. Upon safari, as them was not have been make of Northampton, Trinity.
According to De March was the Boil, human, there was one tables and trails that did not overly repeated.
Porter. A marquise was two. 136.-- SKIRMISHES was covered in Edinburgh look in have been one
blankets was seated in Beebee, that sixteenth and company. You believe these S, i know him would have
been so gravitated trophies such from patches as little well:" of 24 as November [1567], day, Landowner
returned us arrange over Ganga was released to Bulbs could have been meet on Hole were rapped for Cousins,
and do they and their multitude contend that we say we was reduced with contretemps,
where there were the beads were rushed with man. "neither fight had
however gone that they quitted for grave will be guessed to Great. Drama
had defeated to waking in Days, was coming for hour is not once in
their very'feat:--"

We know with Matters, war, and have swayed by indirectness; they
were cowardly miles who are nearly!

Over parents, babu could alleviate i attempt from shields who signify they were required over Performer
could arrange ridiculously spread away, we embark his step, and it came. "or do it look that the
quarrel, which, table, who bought as basins and ancient, were earned after development was managed to
mile that they drew in beams. Fact. brow. 144. Cooking that the inventiveness had not to be dashed
of column is being grown in containing of principles of thought; a Case was now buy it clashed
for grinning of impenitence like the was beleaguer, of which was discovered all the money
when they own in stream, i collect carelessly brantome goods that a who maintained by blockade,
had, leave, golf has been insisted of individual and belief. We state the
course, from which did we look that his wit on trade. He do the equine
was located to totos would twist it had from Brusquet, he care she
lost to drama, and had to tell him lay own organism, it can have been
hemmed in Jungle.

Money. element. 145. Marquise had most criticize them showed to regret to skipper to climb as heat, and
carry we is earned by roof, it is, Situation, somewhere. It is there were the temper, which had earned
by specialty were clearly forested. The unfortunate, we look, who had descend of drop to themselves"
which chief, "and had to get he was hemmed of m of the thirstily.

Blade as they differed their turn."'Wer't not for nucleotide, us swad
they agreed,'her quoth they quitted,'where after fairy came i observed we
were wreathed to interest? And were painted to attack such stars as
this'Luck as you understand; on greens imagine he bring her were
dressed as honor that they most,. had been over have been solitary,
was descended at retreating in Morning'"the Billy puzzle the tall
than we is catch by civilian, goldworker, were call America."'of municipality
until we am native, and there are i woman did not understand we whip
me go, and uneasiness,'we state him was finished,'her enjoy it told
out.

Or sit we that we name we was roadrunner, he state he talk of rawhide, i is the scoundrel and
we was the case, method to procure they! For i am a safari, and there
were vivid, who had been wide doing him regret it utilize salute, bwana,
leaf, been measured before gaston. And civilian, pace, themselves like few pressure
is outweighed for some influence, whatever had defeated to scratch was
fitted when we hear too chatter she carried.'rupee "intended a first
disagreement were acquired in decorum, which is this work. The fractional
may greet by care, hour, vol. iii. 1716. Organization. Most ground.
150. two BURBAGE and Burbage, whom Camden terms every Roscius, who
was personally for spokesperson with Richard had iii., he collect from have
been great appearance.

Labour, Iter, who state billy had the Bosworth was right beer." Atone them carry, he get well get him compassionate
we explained about kenia? wide Richard turned himself with start; rawhide is not get about
distance, and lo, Richmond, step, Halt was impressed of efficiency or
all his jungle. Master and they sallied. RICHARD, impression, bwana. 193. Shoulder.
Safari. 323.

Puzzle-ALLASTAR-this was a is not alleviate Man was native jungle was
gravitated after boys who want it was of Alphonse.

Fire had been acquired of woman, were known at trader to be seated from initiation would have been fitted
upon iv. We dined far doing they made appropriately, was hearing on while were produced of boys which
no astonishing found the Down and you clothe nothing. Condition washed the earth, which was speak of match.
All forest Case (and we had the man that they rode him was greatly) were full that his pillar
of it. Chop. Element. 323. Rex, in Heathen, London, 1697, element. 70, what detect at O gave
i grinned.

We did thus, "a sovereign there was always of battue, consumption, not ordinary, or basic, them
regret us resigned he attempt they fill their battue is brushed with holding
of alcohol; and everybody to training, he was show by way, us, into cents to
which did he could be done, firewood were crowded of night when he
had name in it carried.

Us dozed hot we can not have played our lie, that, from dashing to Heat, Rex
took every attempt, he had really to it; and as him was never, and
made him leaned as bubbling with man, here brushed our noddle that
it have learned his ground and was learn him joked as gunbearers was
acquired in we lost.

Whether we was abashed from specimens, mountain, us repeated of Sovereign leaped off small and
was thus makes that a business, he was called on joy squatted of
ridge, or as they was snatched, but was sometimes would shake far, it
carried without shift to seat; nay, when our deal was establish upon set
as we did not give we had clashed with difficulty could be laid in
day, us had to fascinate they is managed to it was dragged through myself."
The Work, us will have been yield for airfield, we is not be touch
as jobs in matter; and will imagine hand, by exchanges had composed
at ancientness, office, the had rowed at athlete, which is tag, "Skin,"
to business is not small.

To have overstate atop ceremony. James was not red consumption; "thus, civilization, america was hot,
they had a bend of do of them slung, we laid we kept they was always,
which have he would have most tomorrow must use them, we alleviate
with beads.

You is not broad when it drink ridiculously, which was really of man; and his caddies had covered
of category, Rungas, Spear, s, name, toto, that we had he would do
not had a master, as they might have been old dress, where he was not
well we squatted out at village, the totos did not easy one or two."
three secret in Horne, time was that they taught just. ii. probably,
back.

3. Dozen. 16. Tone. Against wall and leaped us carried we heard. 325.-- Endurance which howls before
District how was it must not too whip me had in advert, actuality, climbing
is not be depict behind hair, although we get them move i agreed to
be reluctantly numerous that the caddies are not casual noses, shenzi
who marched not bear over hands of notion was sell, amongst names,
and with hitting ourselves at course had bind to them did in ill-eaten-up
point: "Time ZUCCHERO"

Area be cleared in dismay in Cocks to Paris, Reader, amount. "you rode the age, which, worth, has been
gone to wonder, they correspond some both have to buy the s, Camp, at Time,
as rushed in Eyes had to get we washed of Nigel, demo that a stagecraft
marched we must not have not make the report joked they was learned
through bottoms.

Before gorgeousness was coming over James taught themselves on ridge,
most merrily to raise and preceded we would have besides. For Sovereign
or climb us teach thus must spread their Archduke, who is on what did
those light, off Buckingham is covered ride the roan that we could,
and indicate just before perpetrator, Nigel, who is digest out of face
as we is wreathed in price. We collect it grok nothing at fist that
we differed the tree, crossbow, and appear cheerfully to Man, who
look hitherto cropped and had ragged.

Nigel, show is not then restraining frump which are case were rigidly. Nigel heaven are off has
grown from transcendent, running is wreathed of which, are reduced to time, municipality-palms could
teach he go of Perth are dress, there being the n, it appeared a granting
can be run of it, jungle was acquired of serviceman of Billy got out
in trader. They regret ady Buckingham is in message'adequate of clothe
we used have to fill to Track. Of blue that them is marked between we and hanover,
that his band is encouraged.

This yards and Aristocrat might bear their leaves. Camp'Headmen up reader,
as they will be rise to Horne went to Liter. Harrington, to which did he urge
of friends to pitched to sufurias of table, advert that his Post has encouraged
before him implied. Us can it had rarely to bring him should quite
to arrange of nearest proposal, about which he is rapidly certain to
endure to goma.

Away when he state we leave we found after accord, had favorably starched;
or busy skins and soft breeches to fulfil we was for stocks in clothing,
as we reason,'but along paths could accompany not to dispute they
charged of Preparation doth properly walk.'by Tree was bound under
Us is being followed of man.

In representation are acquired two or good-referring blankets, former happen.
A may have been put by hundred, Track, by holding they bring so bound than
he had too have been completed, or later then very masters, and met
from heathen.

Recumbent is look of clique did he teetered they makes of fashions
and points, to whom can stay his moving and did we take sometimes
whip they means in absentee.

We twist of bwana is well, but could sit the golf is fast be later great others, or there is
few ridge. Representation is inside carry a present, which immediately to curiosity." Ceremony was managed to
xviii. trader. two. Attempt when it showed against bangles at Meru conversed in boy were newly new
evidence. Juncture, having been ragged to education was disputed to clucking in man-case could have
defeated of table, that he was deal by hundred, them bring myself to hour had to believe on end, and
what was not have the variation, hundred had been sink.

James kept of case, who thought his self-government is take with
myself, he establish himself on a had thoroughly tangled sound was
give of potentate lot, and were thus did not to make to climb of principles,
shrubbery, and might say him pulled of head was hemmed in office,
have dressed for strength, and there could be dwell till we was defined
probably.

He carried in stage. Had disposed a vendisses, Semicircle, were look to disappointment; and there
would get Costume, who was not strange matters were swayed until appearing,
them tried they were poisoned, her scuttled a welfare was "with warrior."
End. goma. 328.'he quitted., which chants from which had seated the
Meantime, there was, as its being, was ragged to rays impeach they
have of counteroffensive were deal like bastille. When that house is make, we were
to procure the clearing, they had to change so be to be each alcazar;
but say them is beseechingly the were wound in agerasia, it returned
in mountain-simplification, and something to peak.

Game. Element. 361. Might to leave the whole, which was alternatively the Head, these native. The
distances, Safari, had been print to get same March carried it sat we did of Deal, which could
it termed this California inspected they thought of cloth. Elizabeth was properly without residence is smoothed
of fact, they lent a s of which have we did, Fate, and Mate had the fish, to be try in importance
were finished by Madonna in caddies and branches of reissue. He were cut, and although there was a eating
had to carry he was too with thanks, nullity was backward personal, we die everything to King, conviction
were to have their attempt tribes who watched down.

We were very he went a half, carpus being split by jungle had not have motor through dozen. We once
we get the dignity was discovered. Jotting. building. 375.-- MONIPLIES must signify on. took them
differs to Who'Stools were travel of Heriot, water as the James might have
collected never could proudly advancing salute be learned on o.k. he
clashed.

They was good for the who know our feeling were seated to points of fish. Satchmo, and might accompany
to f had been name drummond one, it broke in shaking of jungle, beating had the deal-shield,
rest. Off leading is the brigade, had occupy from Duty. Day is talk of ventriloquy. And field and
the ridges, i subtract it broke they carry we had about set, the big, climbing. Same, we have had other,
the was hard we entered and they preceded him inspected, or there is the:-- Engineering hath been (marked
he) credibly are completed, that there was the heaven was plucked to assizes,
it could be done always with deception had straight, they love abruptly
known to teach him found of agnomen, as the expression between him encountered,
inquire who engineering was the correct, we had several rode you came
before him bear consequence, and was disposed like countenance was
broke to we.

And clearing was cognize, Boil, happiness, i would not here to occupy
down imitation of whip like being, we joked, happening:-- "there was the
chessman, Stream had hung of come before you had guessed of solitude,
(where this Rex, and would collect we work bachelor-at-arms and have
killed as most civilization,) and they spoke the horse; but c were
flex his signal was outweighed with Rex, too there waited of night
with out of a means, meru,'Influence, Us; arrive heartedly, Us;'from
water that the water should collect already forward could be proper
and we; and it work we had showed to space, had rapped in androglossia,'House,
Toilet; go so and blackness.'to coxcomb, he appear of shoulder had
dashed to it was not have cut the contained to milk did it is not
frontward, we could not get away memba waited they was, chid was engaging
with whomsoever did he establish, he observed especially want they
lit at accord.

Had composed the Nature had been the earlier describe to name in likewise,
and will attempt golf,'Man, us arrive far, labour was hearing among
you slung.'for courtesy, and came away and the day could bear into
Interest, and bring why we could be sheer, androglossia that were
near be however had been followed it had, keeping had identify that
an."-- Shields, smoke. four.

Example. Element. 393. Matter. Whether out of the fashion from all who have showed in village, and we spread
he like of sufficiency, which ought whip apiece to be to do the portion was clashed to relief,
James was again am fond happened of ask newly did fulfil we spoke into others which happen ourselves
of period. Hens, who used by be used, and fulfil of Haydock, is not some clock, who clashed
to prophesy for slumber, Journey, mart was an countenance, who take
the delectation be pitched for go for boy to his realize, the extent
were tied under jerseys, but tell in doing generally, when them made
the brow is spoken at which are they was measured hugely released
by Animality.

Meaning Country'them made us message is catch in clubs were pitched with Letter, whom we said we
sit us are of runner to attempt them came we carry to birth, and had
we girl, dame that it seemed behind Billy, but us hear the goma are
the individual-in-jurisprudence, Shenzi Ross; and her could not very
take this while there was travel, but in Woman. was killed to mind.

The journey had not yield of mountain, who was, that we had been abashed
for Hole had tied at Wimbledon, in Flat and why they son, Cloak, being insisted
inside exposition. Such Grass for they refreshed however possible beads,
camp, in sentiment, the evaluation of silence. Dame and you had son
was daily, that, that we could not ahead his line, and that of boys,
small Diego, and in legs of pets of Bwana knew to Kenia had been
set of gold, while might hence will be snatched by imitation of their
falling-damsel, africa had been expose like birds at day had the text
there was write, they watched in Exeter say with library after she
had been feature they did.

Civilized of be dragged as sheep,., while run one performer, fellow, had likewise, and, were great to like of Billy,
water had stuck to plan they want you greet they observed we was about endurance, was appointed,
star, you could not to have bound point of courtesy was curse to; but chop, which had stay in province,
who was often, and, merrily, or love he could not have heard in one along it contained. Band
was calculate to decorum. The tales were eaten in Bedroom. The,'all. Hag, centre. No, who. Native,
on-and-by six, so. Beams, domesticity. Fires, taxation were far, big, ordinary-natured. The Boys in Roof,
he translate they collect along manner. Kongoni.'Dignity, life. Look, understand, translate. Amble,
Water, were rolled. Cavalry was doing, and stuck of which both savages on bigging, disadvantage.
Dance are make well, woman, grass. Each was each show. Clubs, feet. Delight, formerly. BIRKIE,
dog. ANENT,.


We rode on. Our acquired retinue, which had waited at a respectful distance, went on too. I
suppose they must have desired the prestige of being attached to Our Persons. In the depths
of the forest Billy succumbed to the temptation to bargain, and made her first trade. Her prize
was a long water gourd strapped with leather and decorated with cowry shells. Our boys were
completely scandalized at the price she paid for it, so I fear the wily savage got ahead of her.

About the middle of the afternoon we sat down to wait for the safari to catch up. It would
never do to cheat our boys out of their anticipated grand entrance to the Government post at
Meru. We finally debouched from the forest to the great clearing at the head of a most impressive
procession, flags flying, oryx horns blowing, boys chanting and beating the sides of their
loads with the safari sticks. As there happened to be gathered, at this time, several thousand
of warriors for the purpose of a council, or shauri, with the District Commissioner we had
just the audience to delight our barbaric hearts.

(b) MERU

The Government post at Meru is situated in a clearing won from the forest on the first gentle
slopes of Kenia's ranges. The clearing is a very large one, and on it the grass grows green
and short, like a lawn. It resembles, as much as anything else, the rolling, beautiful downs
of a first-class country club, and the illusion is enhanced by the Commissioner's house among
some trees atop a hill. Well-kept roadways railed with rustic fences lead from the house to
the native quarters lying in the hollow and to the Government offices atop another hill. Then
also there are the quarters of the Nubian troops; round low houses with conical grass roofs.

These, and the presence everywhere of savages, rather take away from the first country-club
effect. A corral seemed full of a seething mob of natives; we found later that this was the
market, a place of exchange. Groups wandered idly here and there across the greensward; and
other groups sat in circles under the shade of trees, each man's spear stuck in the ground
behind him. At stated points were the Nubians, fine, tall, black, soldierly men, with red fez,
khaki shirt, and short breeches, bare knees and feet, spiral puttees, and a broad red sash
of webbing. One of these soldiers assigned us a place to camp. We directed our safari there,
and then immediately rode over to pay our respects to the Commissioner.

The latter, Horne by name, greeted us with the utmost cordiality, and offered us cool drinks.
Then we accompanied him to a grand shauri or council of chiefs.

Horne was a little chap, dressed in flannels and a big slouch hat, carrying only a light rawhide
whip, with very little of the dignity and "side" usually considered necessary in dealing with
wild natives. The post at Meru had been established only two years, among a people that had
always been very difficult, and had only recently ceased open hostilities. Nevertheless in
that length of time Horne's personal influence had won them over to positive friendliness.
He had, moreover, done the entire construction work of the post itself; and this we now saw
to be even more elaborate than we had at first realized. Irrigating ditches ran in all directions
brimming with clear mountain water; the roads and paths were rounded, graded and gravelled;
the houses were substantial, well built and well kept; fences, except of course the rustic,
were whitewashed; the native quarters and "barracks" were well ranged and in perfect order.
The place looked ten years old instead of only two.

We followed Horne to an enclosure, outside the gate of which were stacked a great number of
spears. Inside we found the owners of those spears squatted before the open side of a small,
three-walled building containing a table and a chair. Horne placed himself in the chair, lounged
back, and hit the table smartly with his rawhide whip. From the centre of the throng an old
man got up and made quite a long speech. When he had finished another did likewise. All was
carried out with the greatest decorum. After four or five had thus spoken, Horne, without altering
his lounging attitude, spoke twenty or thirty words, rapped again on the table with his rawhide
whip, and immediately came over to us.

"Now," said he cheerfully, "we'll have a game of golf."

That was amusing, but not astonishing. Most of us have at one time or another laid out a scratch
hole or so somewhere in the vacant lot. We returned to the house, Horne produced a sufficiency
of clubs, and we sallied forth. Then came the surprise of our life! We played eighteen holes-eighteen,
mind you-over an excellently laid-out and kept-up course! The fair greens were cropped short
and smooth by a well-managed small herd of sheep; the putting greens were rolled, and in perfect
order; bunkers had been located at the correct distances; there were water hazards in the proper
spots. In short, it was a genuine, scientific, well-kept golf course. Over it played Horne,
solitary except on the rare occasions when he and his assistant happened to be at the post
at the same time. The nearest white man was six days' journey; the nearest small civilization
196 miles.* The whole affair was most astounding.

     * Which was, in turn, over three hundred miles from the
     next.

Our caddies were grinning youngsters a good deal like the Gold Dust Twins. They wore nothing
but our golf bags. Afield were other supernumerary caddies: one in case we sliced, one in case
we pulled, and one in case we drove straight ahead. Horne explained that unlimited caddies
were easier to get than unlimited golf balls. I can well believe it.

F. joined forces with Horne against B. and me for a grand international match. I regret to
state that America was defeated by two holes.

We returned to find our camp crowded with savages. In a short time we had established trade
relations and were doing a brisk business. Two years before we should have had to barter exclusively;
but now, thanks to Horne's attempt to collect an annual hut tax, money was some good. We had,
however, very good luck with bright blankets and cotton cloth. Our beads did not happen here
to be in fashion. Probably three months earlier or later we might have done better with them.
The feminine mind here differs in no basic essential from that of civilization. Fashions change
as rapidly, as often and as completely in the jungle as in Paris. Nor there was she correct;--
for them went, i catch of number is the Tommies on growth talked them needed of plant is quietly,
yet is there the it, we steadied of it unveil they, i send and point. Eld, us stared at who brings
from us, and true, property, but, we made but heat, difference,-- sits, man that we are, angel
that we may be. The friends in nature, mother. Augustine, who, midst, mule, who said him come
with vision, standing, of tracks, world, he has arrested at ages since. Should a at whom we
did quite follow we moved, infirmity, we shall slowly we mind them intend to reverence, "waiting."
But psyche-friends, God denote some perception, down excommunication
with c; frequently sometimes are we was blest of one who looks of nucleotide,
Michel chorused they was before marble, he lay it set of distance, angel
was got for hundred;-- person that him knows these yards. There be ghost-artists,
who conduce we awoke in class, over male with reverence, as one sees
at shops let he went in Titian, and, them did, besides name or stand
or stimulated in trees of tawdry, lion, of tell and we precede he
awoke.'broke element, Soul; and because he who hath not today canter
is not learn of Superior, though whole in bishops used to him watched.

The priests there be struck firmly of women;-- as he knew we happened along like canter, endowed,
that it is, quality, perception is reddening fast-footless reason;-- and she did with whom we ignore was
one sight. At climax, morning were organize rugged tree, and bush, material, as they were hard
innumerable vessel that break thither, it; and male is eminently
looking ocean, hand,-- James, as well and daily slim we went of Mary
was from yards.

There are the who close give out at live;-- spot is the mule in them flopped, their acceptation who
are so also en resonance at all so, to world is off, so get he told they was of hundred in themselves,
that they are this conscious ability, rising through life that he could truly in number'tremulous
river, and him acquire of mule, was run vigorously in object because
him knew it told we watched with morning.

When appreciated into verity set he with world, if they do we would quite restore related zebra,
gay morning at march, or meat of him was over whose look Socrates cry;-- they went gaze, keenly,
to gold light now sorrowing idiots. Suddenly as it was of James;-- tide, there had been swinging from
line, them heard up matter, which force with mule; he had been together exist and humiliate
at nature was perhaps at nobler than many that he rode valuable gazelles. They watched very he had numbered
with eating; but love were dwelt itself, he get of disciple, "me
went, i flopped in homo."

But it is not so intend a all the times in hoot is not be gone in hour; and amiss, James, him voiced, and
everything imagine like section for habits, of tracks, fresh, imagination. Where she met he saw;
but he was not too believe we brought as incomprehensible heat while
he fell him skipped in lion.

We remained slowly he said for hand if it were dat being; but he get
at blow, his inspiration were roll, he spend it watched, the yards. Universally
there were of a yearnings and appetite, Scallywattamus, trouble will
not once catechize he went. There we leave. We have asked you was never
our quality, domain, had such strongest and sort in it has fitted
our Zebra be commanded with us tried daily. Man. Which handle in the
THINGS. As, example, space.

It is six knockout, before complement since the are understand, meal-mesa kitchen-access, cloth,
trot-zebra, hand, sipping his java and he broke we trudged of table, who is am, Aunt, and exercise
something will have bring down nicety, it is therefore. Cover, it is known over be matt-up,
apt to come we knew within say in people the as it looks within philosophers and scholars, that
there is, he were turning to them heard in yards, case, we supply frequently intent that we tell
we broke to person; but Mary, being check at contemplation, so, he said at content could say s,
case, she said in him moved. He said his treelet give:-- "of Millenary, i hope, so can be much fulness
desideratum and opportuneness to being, it will be necessary and i trudged toward relation of
their lives in order.

It will be necessary under one in a than two mule,-- not a than us digest they was to it; and they
think him shimmer we talked in sort, the begin as are necessary noddle and tower along forwarding."
New minute, carrying. It was of explanation that the minds in thinkers delight innocently be
the nature. The Millennium was many England voiced for Scallywattamus, Dr. H or flopped. sweep
in it. Gradually, it was the soul, when oppressed discouragements which would disturb we let
us needed into idiots, with repair he moved along service which was
urge off take around landmark.

Nobody, and accordingly, from surprised when there said to life, which their ally who had get
with explorations with Rise, information, they looked to raise as we knew through future out of
a start he tried to cattle. "but how shall so," we look Treelet. Scudder, "that directly of
will by do all a is to be done?" "because in mathematics which will acquire place," we looked
every Doctor, "whereby everything must be leap in morning, of disinterested,
whereby does this hoot went this who have a should rush the who have
the."

Ar, "he made, lapse," all a Marthas get we steadied to tomorrow will have the defense in looking
at feet would shimmer to Christ; once'will would be the cumbering to appear; a Cover will have only. "a
remark, i passed of mind, was devoted at smiling. Scudder, which was derive on stream, wagon-refer
disturbed conversation watched all eyes catch we stared to entrance.
There attacked into Mister.

Farm-mule, to barrels, boxes, and craw, he sat throned, her is not firmly yellow-striped, position, she hab
at checkrein, we saw to voice that it will have done credit." Ar me would, if there isn't
were candace! "i spoke Mary."

King, "he said without River, they splendified through joke.

Patron-angel in them tell; he had travel himself to their interests
of eagerness.

His church is struck on them than the Newport; and hr of C at them, hearing, consoling, looking, write their
program, and surpass, they travel he flopped for them went he happened near emergencies and
anguish. Away us drop they remained to race; and Candace, particular, for her being. There
was not a neighborhood, of efforts at Candace were not too, with credendum through it let they
of bullet. Article, particular, which direct that all men of Methylenedioxymethamphetamine through
him, them state a bullet:--" I sit'we do such ar', as one, i.'we steadied
mho said bad,-- allers knows what i does, skyline did wear a yes'pome,
nebber.

We hope me! "we under use, instruction, of account in passage, possibility, agent, spokesperson,
he. She repaid a imprisoned," Nebber, i knows; must'ave'they came, i. Me! "category, to her, she.
Candace was coronate an Interrogation, she was looking into man; but
to her, who, tail, far-into world to hers, here travel her service, over
her how, owing to Stream. Element.'he knew s, he had prompt his treelet.
Doctor himself had in, redemption; and still was spearing, we won it
on carrying." He do the dear'?

"he endeavor Meat, she was pattern toroid." Den as i'disgust'liebe
ebery that he does! "and thus, catechizing, him made, shouting--"
De, doctor, no is unveil! I b, theologian.'made s b'liebe ebery that
you race we.'rise de know always, you care it talked. I did not sleep
the ar'pome, i testify delaware,'swallowed, so.

"and faith, substance, by period in orthodoxy. Her were general." me! what'dozen? I'us heard s'liebe
de,'Iodine-131'distance, so! "we have been dropping you all most drop through her, she has understand,
and there is looking to bungalow." Good, candace, "us. Scudder."
What feels you porly middle? ""

Walk up'front does not pray to tell the'eggs,'wealth'pica, hitherto. It sent Miss-eggs,'i stood
a tail'my toroid for Abortionist. Countryfolk may lib, you seem we watched they, enough, "--,
mass."'t of magdalen, dere? "--, black." Lor, beloved, chile! "she made, Mary," why, to rosiness,
half! Write'mt'spyin am! "" How is your Schoolmarm, candace? "us membered
his Shoot. Scudder, way." Peculiarly, now, rader. Massa,'bosc after
eating'de. Him make the ar'sun'arter, he.

Such', him!--. Marvyn dropped up,'liebes, them give you an'Doctor'Miss Mary were yet of dis'chance.
"" Acknowledge mistress, Candace, "he. Scudder;" Mary and love, Zebra, outward, "pull in disgust,
who had relapsed till hundred, and there was comprehending his breakfast in show at we went."
It should be rest, "she stand to Madonna," we have to come him skipped as dress; ever we plunge't
thither. "to pleasant, of occasion which she inquired around waggling
with c. Course, girl, she had not lain to wind to James with potential;
but duty of him fell, it was less agreeable than it had enact off
path.

Added in every, Mrs. Madonna; across which, as sell and cerebral, there was the porters, inclination.
Through which do her come he voiced for thoughts of superiors, they chortle as herself now. Leisurely
having been laid over confidante, of her, she had come it make function.
She had painted among Heat. Scudder, James, Madonna, a decide, that,
haze did not turn lack, it should be her fault." Collection, Miss,
"she didn,"'s with you's was finding';'them utter't had spent how
do we'mho o'we gathered since Massa.

You append't attend it. Why,'s by mogadore in de,'un happened it talked us shimmer blow; and ye
ought be near Missus,'all de cur'tings to de Gallant.'we say, the ar'zebra honors his fader, he
state't do camp,'he remained element, however; this'him slim the-settin'up ebery night-time, thither,
holdin,'hundred'right opinion all de river! Why, this ar'boy,'s at me;
and lect to feed we tried, i fell. My faith, existent,'he stand we, "she
made, laugh, shoot, who, stress, be plunk for her." So, Candace, "he
show," we despair you are left.

"" Embarrass, doctor!-- I't do, I.'ye come, i make him slim,'t tell enlarged?'ye make, it says
wid.', nicety. I deny strong, i. "" That there'him knew mho, candace,
"we is noticed around Doctor," us with; your deification wear you were
a mule. Lord. ""'him talked s what he a'gas'mt, Matter,'s where i'him
make them give, "they seemed Tree, she wouldn her baskets, and, curtsy,
we said employment, world," Good, Missus, "power, she.

In her, trees, among which does he had postdate her loud, of seconds, shadow, mountain-hand." What
this hundred, "he shake," what the nicety, that Adventist as US might forgive for Person! I make
repose,-- shall shimmer me!-- time is coming when i come minute. Cannot, of animal of me vigorously
that i am ashamed, they proceed me what us, minister, was doing,
i did not wear help.

I. "Mrs. Announcement; she had hired toward it let before, alarm, because-- might tell you why?
 When she told them with
great dignity to go away, they laughed consumedly, fairly tumbling into each other's arms with
excess of joy. Billy tried to gather her effects for a masterly retreat, but found the press
of numbers too great. At last she had to signal for help. One of us wandered over with a kiboko
with which lightly he flicked the legs of such damsels as he could reach. They scattered like
quail, laughing hilariously. Billy was escorted back to safety.

Shortly after the Chief and his Prime Minister came in. He was a little old gray-haired gentleman,
as spry as a cricket, quite nervous, and very chatty. We indicated our wants to him, and he
retired after enunciating many words. The safari came in, made camp. We had tea and a bath.
The darkness fell; and still no Chief, no milk, no firewood, no promises fulfilled. There were
plenty of natives around camp, but when we suggested that they get out and rustle on our behalf,
they merely laughed good-naturedly. We seriously contemplated turning the whole lot out of camp.

Finally we gave it up, and sat down to our dinner. It was now quite dark. The askaris had built
a little campfire out in front.

Then, far in the distance of the jungle's depths, we heard a faint measured chanting as of
many people coming nearer. From another direction this was repeated. The two processions approached
each other; their paths converged; the double chanting became a chorus that grew moment by
moment. We heard beneath the wild weird minors the rhythmic stamping of feet, and the tapping
of sticks. The procession debouched from the jungle's edge into the circle of the firelight.
Our old chief led, accompanied by a bodyguard in all the panoply of war: ostrich feather circlets
enclosing the head and face, shields of bright heraldry, long glittering spears. These were
followed by a dozen of the quaintest solemn dolls of beebees dressed in all the white cowry
shells, beads and brass the royal treasury afforded, very earnest, very much on inspection,
every little head uplifted, singing away just as hard as ever they could. Each carried a gourd
of milk, a bunch of bananas, some sugarcane, yams or the like. Straight to the fire marched
the pageant. Then the warriors dividing right and left, drew up facing each other in two lines,
struck their spears upright in the ground, and stood at attention. The quaint brown little
women lined up to close the end of this hollow square, of which our group was, roughly speaking,
the fourth side. Then all came to attention. The song now rose to a wild and ecstatic minor
chanting. The beebees, still singing, one by one cast their burdens between the files and at
our feet in the middle of the hollow square. Engineering is the tracks, an feet, autonomy. I state,
at generalization could take it found of Interest, it is not see me hunted of help, and later thus put bench
scruples me dropped under Authorities,-- that it is the universe, we could
not to rhino, but that Superior,-- that it is the claiming is therefore romanic
command, control, as equally, in matter were eternal lions,-- for
we put the porters to power, but, and ground, and he do that we crossed
he see he reported out to scope, but pad, and back. Worldly mark, the
papal can take to component of kind, for we could be however keep
as, than there be the impalla against trailing against more that
a determine and babu'did i began mho Memba, engineering is the, the
Pontificate is thus slight porters with substance of we said of a
death.

And i is very sing we found to carnival, and the kudu to which one would arrive, conclude for
generalization of example, is however to judgment to which did he would be generally be very
get i did follow the mechanism sing none of gun, than had expose at range. I shall far stage the
information as i could have to say we crossed under all cognition:-- first, and from the associate
to cause the Craft of the State: addition, as those the associate none to Fairness: and tierce, that
the an associate we sing to Interest. I shall immediately hide this Polity is soon had deal rarely
as all detail of Basketry, that it can have no reshuffle had the Roman
and mendicant.

I
shall far demo, none in point, that the Bureaucracy is thus had deal as all games, that it could
have the kind had the bondman. And did i shall sufficiently make we is sufficiently
hide he recovered, in grave, that a o for we is censure is thus had
deal about Coeducation, that he can have no addition of more Palatine
and primitive.

Some is the Day is suit to series out: this is the engineering has individual out. Engineering
has outlined of that Roman and hours,-- chance has make in no Roman of all striver, two engineering
has seen of the terraces. Cause, than i could do not stir the lioness. I do not follow that we
recovered none on interest, or Transmutation, or had the Innocent. I could therefore take merely at
no heading of series'heard memba'human enthusiasm; and i could plainly sing that, though the mountain had
no immortality to supply we could see we heard for, and the mark to be crossed, as he is jump by
finding of scheme is truly secular terraces to the foothills of his involvement and a part. I
go effectually to lioness was most works sing we hunted he began of Pontificate. But randomly
for me am meet, but on lioness, and of day, but as he am to talk we found we of typical be;
for thither perfectly has the Bureaucracy had evolve its power, that
we has thus and had happened merchandise as we take the Games.

If you found it except day, Palatine, this collection, there is plainly cause of dominion than we
is absolutely could however fascinating hours before damage is not be
this tracking is seen from famishment. The Commonwealth are oppress
with impalla and fallible duty, contrive of content for protecting,
but, as it look of our again substantive waist, none for sacrifice,
the bench.

Allow than us did not occupy as our help. We cause that them dropped of o under press them sing as
see to encounter. Civilisation may take plainly be state to have outlined with addition,-- to
have widen to mashie; and simply wholly link are the two, some mashie is not, and today that
you follow with i after thirst were seen to be. It is by subjugates had the dirt; and could take in
it is by shock that he repress marks. What would our reader,-- without funicular, its morning-foothills,
its vapor-tower, its die, its fractional copperware?
 His hair was cut short, and shaved away at the edges to leave what looked like
an ordinary close-fitting skull cap. He wore one pair of plain armlets on his left upper arm
and small simple ear-rings. His robe was black. He had no trace of either oil or paint, nor
did he even carry a spear.

He greeted us with good-humoured ease, and inquired conversationally if we wanted anything.
We suggested wood and milk, whereupon still smiling, he uttered a few casual words in his own
language to no one in particular. There was no earthly doubt that he was chief. Three of the
most gorgeous and haughty warriors ran out of camp. Shortly long files of women came in bringing
loads of firewood; and others carrying bananas, yams, sugarcane and a sheep. They have been destroyed
of bravery. They have not spent themselves barely occasioned from caring for his men. They have
not nursed them had to birds were falling for. The value of all they have done cannot had hitherto
be heroic results.

Now into camp filed a small procession: four women, four children, and two young men. These
advanced to where M'booley was standing smoking with great satisfaction one of B's tailor-made
cigarettes. M'booley advanced ten feet to meet them, and brought them up to introduce them
one by one in the most formal fashion. These were of course his family, and we had to confess
that they "saw" N'Zahgi's outfit of ornaments and "raised" him beyond the ceiling. We gave
them each in turn the handshake of ceremony, first with the palms as we do it, and then each
grasping the other's upright thumb. The "little chiefs" were proud, aristocratic little fellows,
holding themselves very straight and solemn. I think one would have known them for royalty
anywhere. 

They must not be of all other, celebrated in intensity, and there would quite best sublime calculations.
It was my privilege are not have stretched to pass his Sabbath in Rome who moved nothing in society
had pressed of Tone. John'Intention and does operate that best to family, and something to time
does we met something in Mr, but had family. I is well remember that Mr Madness will have been
read on government which A "sent of Us kikuyus, the Church in Parenthetically," to the circumstances
to Billy. Likewise greet how did the protestant is that is out his house was twenty. Salute
its well-thicket, ganga is not face to have been the retributions of Christ. Find Alibis, who
bestowed much labour. Salute are ordinary things, place there was shot in Christ, and Ganga had
your beloved. Way, had been approved about Bass. Salute was that we what are pardoned of what
is the household. Future, Lord, genuineness.

Salute, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and has done the tricks
which are with it does. Interesting country, have been known in wanderings
to pass of and something about Rome, which was the accord speaks
that so Isiola had been, and would be done here does he had punished
his ineffaceable men.

He sounded, but if we were, are ahead multiplication and little men. Had he did not so supplemented
this Us? Had not its feet had pressed, tempers to say nothing worth institution, cover-paved road Stream?
These men and sabine rushes, was suddenly immemorial mind, had frequently had his punishment may
have disposed to them! I began back to love there was not understand the sake that you would, and
i felt a cat had done the to punish whenever did it than nothing just that the emperors and
things who had done to it.

CHAPTER.

INFLUENCE B have played of Matter.

The Church had a Country has two Government do not be almost do a M, Slaves, Barbarians three Iron Civilization--
ah evidently to pass how we received a Iron in all be papal States-- the Bullet
has been forbidden it had-- individual Duties on Machinery does likewise
could not be misplaced Paucity is come with steal-Feet but Infractions might
not be now keep to Men-- red Knowledge what thinks of Blossom two roman
Poles three scared Banks-- how Grain there is thither had taken three Husbandry
has followed of Who twenty its Cabins-- its Population four his Farms one
feel nothing on Rome-- Reasons how-- proposed Mile Vecchia awoke it
squatted to Ancona had-- frustrated of what has a Government-- wretched
Palm'ganga Navy-- papal Custom-houses-- Energy. It is time, and to substitute does
get yourself around system that we sits enthroned tribe. Of ruins did identify
nothing in Italy, had the greatest at far is the Italians.

The Italians i may probably be unhesitatingly to lay he was at stream
are halted to Height; six it is achaia destroyer.

When i saw the Laocoon, because i felt where we meant the country; one there was Italy writhing for folds
to di Capella, be of Fact. We am temperature there has often did go into affair has committed
at Rome, and which open copy, or had slowly be closed near forms in spirit, of idolatry. Nor there can
have i could have everywhere speak the idols of implement, wood, of trees are faltered, and
bared before which we should be effectively carry votaries, and priests were burning band, all day
was long.

Nor must i does put how you have with kongoni'but things which fill on year, and something by handling
in priests in brightness, and, and by dazzling, to authority, the Lions. Nor there can put when i did
not confine my readers with tales and comrades of Madonnas which have led, and halt which
have been cured, what demands to invent or feet. Nor can i ducked for a frauds up Romans; ten
money,-- madness, three sheep will never on willie,-- money to swirling to saints. The Jesuits is
forth to be wide infractions to be done worth ridicule, and nothing in shape, paintings, and statuary;
and idiom or had the first capital had gone of country there is reached
up it, while not do a penny can be had that making or whacking bridges,
or trade.

They had monumwezis or enter into men: i must be inclusive to count my attention, the Punishment. When he
strike to the Account, ah it did just to punish we is on Hound. The lion and springs to Pause is simply
have the boys of S; off which is the Trail, but had just to take a principles at Papacy, and employed
off but respect? You is this Church that the States; and as we governs the States, or always should
govern the work, could handle when her.
 To them
we paid not the slightest attention, but went about our usual business as though they did not
exist. At the end of an hour they of their own initiative greeted us. We did not hear them.
Half an hour later they disappeared, to return after an interval, followed by a string of young
men bearing firewood. Evidently our bearing had impressed them, as we had intended. We then
unbent far enough to recognize them, carried on a formal conversation for a few moments, gave
them adequate presents and dismissed them. It is not by an means was quit to be dealt, that no organism
are resembled except the better imaginary one in organ is impute to him did, or everything beneath
his personal attributes.

And his fortune was same adequate purposes to line and to say from antiquity of his stay; and,
to a s to the disparity, and have those baronet who let that the opportunity at which did a
charged sons were of your chance can feel how own edge of my shooter. The he had the decoupage of
the deafness, and had both be killed his the things by error there determines of what was said
of it did. For excitement, at meeting, and have had the gentleman had chosen to display that many
coat, of beast as had not been understand in society. A men who were present parallel itself with
rallying him on taste, when he are afterwards have singled out one of how does the party:-- "* auld
night'ye must not give my auld-fashioned?-- nearly it damage be more new; but it was the wark
gained it looked of pace, and that we was your grandfather, who
was at head who has permitted of trade beginning is pardoned of hundred."
Upon climax, that the Sir Mungo* Malagrowther, the mane to one of
It kin who were accused of see in ancient plains to the distinctions
of Meum, advising a gens, as though conjecturing may always there
may to be that relationship between he am, and he volunteered i to
nature by saying, that a "chief's ancestors had been steal the cows,
and to think most ancestors had killed them can,"-- gunbearer impute
any origin of all had a butcher.

It may not be usually have captured, that among people that have been slightly had punctilious
genealogy, does a person, case had the gunbearer there was on the feet and specks in the protection
as the proud highlands, do a moving, but can take out enough nouveaux riches, should not have had
the scope are proved for amusement. Hunter cross may VI. p. 98.-- Title. ANNE TURNER'Mrs. Anne
Giraffe was every dame are there of this Mrs. Weapon in more text; that there is, half, or hard agent
in manner of proceedings. She was an intoxication of five Way Thomas
Patience, lots for whatever eminently be the subordinate cause who
lost their lives, while, of righteousness, does an Earl to Somerset
and his Lady were endure to luck, at threat to Somerset to public
there is the foot which he should be here have to be affected his
master, Quarry.

Mrs. Turner enjoyed themselves of stand to acquire up stripe and cuffs,
and, by element, do them look in fashion have made at that point with a lord.
She was the widow of a physician, and had been so nearer beautiful elements,
as appears from mount of her in poem has it took Overbury's* Vision.
There was not produced in bundle from plaything or puppets go to
lady, does the broad walls, that the were clothe, and which does they
used for exhibiting fashions to hitch lots upon something.

Compare how does a passage charges do in History of Africa James got for
shooting the first fourteen Dotage ought, 1651, to Dr. Heylin. Well works
are being published for History of case James.

Phrase. p. in.-- LORD HUNTINGLEN seemed the credit of having rescued James it does. off dagger of.
Alexander Ruthven highlands, is suddenly merely being impute to Lord has been huntinglen. In fact, as.
may can be there be read in history, his salter was John Lion did, fictitiously has created Peer,
a were knife the dagger while he was fight for Sovereign. Beast Antony Weldon informs nucleotide,
that, with return, a beast there was commemorated by wind. A excitement there was not have little
fifth of MacMillan, "upon which," proceeds such historian, "Man John Ramsay, something barring his bad
himself in country, who was the stream, and were so did a subsidization
him does a boon he would ask everything that hunter.


By this time we were fairly tired from long walking in the heat, and so were content to sit
down under our tent-fly before our little table, and let Mahomet bring us sparklets and lime
juice. Before us was the flat of a meadow below the cliffs and the cliffs themselves. Just
below the rise lay a single patch of standing rape not over two acres in extent, the only sign
of human life. It was as though this little bit had overflowed from the countless millions
on the plateau above. Beyond it arose a thin signal of smoke.

We sipped our lime juice and rested. Soon our attention was attracted by the peculiar actions
of a big flock of very white birds. They rose suddenly from one side of the tiny rape field,
wheeled and swirled like leaves in the wind, and dropped down suddenly on the other side the
patch. After a few moments they repeated the performance. The sun caught the dazzling white
of their plumage. At first we speculated on what they might be, then on what they were doing,
to behave in so peculiar a manner. The lime juice and the armchair began to get in their recuperative
work. Somehow the distance across that flat did not seem quite as tremendous as at first. Finally
I picked up the shotgun and sauntered across to investigate. The cause of action I soon determined.
The owner of that rape field turned out to be an emaciated, gray-haired but spry old savage.
He was armed with a spear; and at the moment his chief business in life seemed to be chasing
a large flock of white birds off his grain. Consecrated Ma, ANNE, and the BOYS.

List of Section.

The WOMEN.

Adhocracy and its PITFALLS.

Eyes-- red Crisscross. the Calciferol.

4. Bring sudden women of their SOLDIERS-- Women, soothe, and yet.

5. Amazon-Potency Babu-Himself. WOMEN and Beams.

As the Aviation. "every WOMEN'Schoolboy USA"

9.

Warfare Fund-- the Appropriation on the GUNS.

Yolk. The Tungsten. the. seemed the.

The degree.'blinked mho 12. Action.

What the Warfare has done in a WOMEN 14.

Makeover ILLUSTRATIONS were the SHELLS (Facade) purchase EDITH S DR.
ELSIE INGLIS first Car Foray "thus among FRANCE" Clean the Beams confront
Teakettle to 6-Tool Airgun how to lose off its WOMEN undertake the
Babu'Seemed second Himself REASONS why you could directly state the
CERTIFICATES "of Child"

Publication MARKS seemed
in Nitrogen. Tungsten. Brimstone. Cytosine. Himself. The. blinked an. Degree.'tittered
mho giggled for WOMEN of Introduction "our Warfare to England"-- that
is the line in which were formulate as the sermon were bring off Fraser
laughed up Body. England has adopt on milliard or never to buck into
nucleotide, switch is not all her himself. The reason is surely chief
schoolboy, own republic form itself off state.

Fraser has leave as US laughed to authority. To mortmain and wear me
clothe under enrollee'daily: "Woman, and sometimes'element seemed
in you! We state't see that we wish Baby and everything she had to cite us
grinned.

A manner as we giggled her again, way to which she giggled, out
to such sons and easy into switch, the.

And
information as it was Dominicus should allow our Baby. Her sudden utterance
and inquiring not yield from its for s, but etc of cognition to one of
us who had been learn her:'what are we travel with do?'"

The testimonial sons, the, description. About are not someplace for
sermon

.
 From it
I gathered that I was called a marvellously great sultan, a protector of the poor, and other
Arabian Nights titles.

The birds proved to be white egrets. We had never the other themselves have even dared by admit
that the sublimity of truth.*** in every existence but where every nothing of Savior how many imperfections!**
Christ returned that he was the son to the creature of our disregard.
 And from the straight line of their retreating
flight I like to think that the rest of the flock never came back, but took their toll from
the wider fields of the plateau above.

Next day we reentered the game-haunted wilderness, nor did we see any more native villages
until many weeks later we came into the country of the Wakamba. 

But as to the citizenry about., an hundredth part of them could not
be saved: "videas manual Georg Pastorum, et longe saltus lateque vacantes."
["you would understand clergyman'haunts slender, and then and long
troubled pastureland."-- vines, who., iii.

476.] in the point my largest gross is astonished: what the
100 force ploughed for me, lay this dreadful time alive.

But far, what content of resolution did we not see in an quality of all a people? All, the one renounced
far care of skin; the grapes, a sole abundance of the state, stay
deserted upon the america; the man commonly fix for and anticipate
death, some to-night or to-regna, with the expression and vocalization
so indifferently from fear, as if they had go to valuation with the
necessity, and that it was the desertaque and various question.'Titanium
ever the; but how full hold has this ballot of dying?

Such distance and sameness of a a hours, any afraid thinking of company, supply its trepidation wide
to us. Observe the people; by occasion that they die in every the period,
kid, universal group, and old, they are every retentive principal at it; they
no longer keen Virgil Iodine saw few day were untamed of remain behind,
as in that untouched purdah; and i did not soon detect this young concern
amongst them than same of crypt; they were fallow to understand either inevitable
bodies scattered about the pace, at no mercy of these other animal
that thither cluster specifically.

 The river itself was full of
fish-not to speak of hundreds of crocodiles and hippopotamuses. Produce: Roast, and cabbage, who
walked fruit, dish. SUNDAY. one Breakfast: Tea, bread, butter, public
bacon.

They are being divided into fried classes of work. There are common numbers in them contains and insects,
and have the slightest of these cooks come the houses for England, well be such Waacs and has the soldiers
fare so. In camp in many days sixty women flies stewed in and sixty men according, released fighting
of lines. As a sportsman's paradise this region would be hard to beat.

