I attribute this victory almost entirely to Sheridan; it was won by strategy and persistence,
and in great part by men who would not stand fire the day before. The happy distribution of
duties between cavalry and infantry excited a fine rivalry, and the consciousness of Sheridan's
guidance inspired confidence. Has any battle so successful ever been fought in Virginia? or,
indeed, in the East? I think not. It has opened to us the enemy's flank, so that we can sweep
down upon the Appomattox and inside of his breastworks, enabling us to shorten our lines of
intrenchments one half, if no more, and putting out of Lee's service fifteen thousand of his
choicest troops. And all this, General Sheridan tells me, has cost him personally no more than
eight hundred men, and the service no more than fifteen hundred. Compare this with Chancellorsville,
Williamsburg, the Wilderness, Bull Run, and what shall we say? The enemy must have lost in
this fight three thousand in killed and wounded.

The scene at Gravelly Run meeting-house at 8 and at 10 o'clock on Saturday night, is one of
the solemn contrasts of the war, and, I hope, the last of them. A little frame church, planted
among the pines, and painted white, with cool, green window-shutters, holds at its foot a gallery
for the negroes, and at the head a varnished pulpit. I found its pews moved to the green plain
over the threshold, and on its bare floors the screaming wounded. Blood ran in little rills
across the planks, and, human feet treading in them, had made indelible prints in every direction;
the pulpit-lamps were doing duty, not to shed holy light upon holy pages, but to show the pale
and dusty faces of the beseeching; and as they moved in and out, the groans and curses of the
suffering replace the gush of peaceful hymns and the deep responses to the preacher's prayers.
Federal and Confederate lay together, the bitterness of noon assuaged in the common tribulation
of the night, and all the while came in the dripping stretchers, to place in this golgotha
new recruits for death and sorrow. I asked the name of the church, but no one knew any more
than if it had been the site of some obsolete heathen worship. At last, a grinning sergeant
smacked his thumbs as if the first idea of his life had occurred to him, and led me to the
pulpit. Beneath some torn blankets and rent officers' garments, rested the hymn book and Bible,
which he produced. Last Sunday these doled out the praises of God, and the frightened congregation
worshipped at their dictation. Now they only served by their fly leaves to give me my whereabouts,
and said:--

Presented to Gravelly Run Meeting House by the Ladies.

Over the portal, the scenes within were reiterated, except that the greatness of a starry night
replaced the close and terrible arena of the church. Beneath the trees, where the Methodist
circuit-rider had tied his horse, and the urchins, daring class-meeting, had wandered away
to cast stones at the squirrels, and measure strength at vaulting and running, the gashed and
fevered lay irregularly, some soul going out at each whiff of the breeze in the fir-tops; and
the teams and surgeons, and straggling soldiers, and galloping orderlies passed all the night
beneath the old and gibbous moon and the hushed stars, and by the trickle of Gravelly Run stealing
off, afeared. But the wounded had no thought that night; the victory absorbed all hearts; we
had no losses to notice where so much was won.

A mile past the church, going away from head-quarters all the time, lies Five Forks, the object
and name of the battle. A large open field of perhaps thirty acres, interposes between the
church and the commencement of the Rebel works. Their left is only some rails and logs to mask
marksmen, but the work proper is a very long stretch of all obstructions of a man's height
in relief.

The White Oak road runs directly in front of these intrenchments, and was, at the time I passed,
the general highway for infantry returning from the field and cavalry-men concentrating at
General Sheridan's bivouac. Riding a mile I came upon the Five Forks proper, and just to the
left, at the foot of some pines, the victor and his assistants were congregated. Sheridan sat
by some fagots, examining a topographical map of the country he had so well traversed; possibly
with a view to design further aggressive movements in the morning. He is opposite me now as
I pen these paragraphs by the imperfect blaze of his bivouac fire. He is good humored and talkative,
like all men conscious of having achieved a great work, and has been good enough to sketch
for me the plan of the day's operations, from which I have compiled much of the statement above.
Close by lies Custer, trying to sleep, his long yellow hair covering his face; and General
Griffin, now commanding the Fifth corps, goes here and there issuing orders, while aides and
orderlies rode in and out, bearing further fresh messages of deeds consummated or proposed.
We shall have a hot night no doubt, for away off to the right, continue volleys of musketry
and discharges of artillery, intermixed with what seem to be thunderbolts of our men-of-war
at anchor in the Appomatox and James,--if such can be heard at this great distance,--which
tell us that the lines are in motion.

CHAPTER XXX.

RICHMOND DESOLATE.

The scenes of entering the doomed stronghold, when Grant had burst its gates, ought to be made
vivid as the spectacle of death. With my good and talented associate, Mr. Jerome B. Stillson,
I hold the Spotswood Hotel, and from this caravansary of the late capital as thoroughly identified
with Rebellion as the inn at Bethlehem with the gospel, we date our joint paragraphs upon the
condition of the city. A week cannot have exhausted the curiosity of the North to learn the
exact appearance of a city which has stood longer, more frequent, and more persistent sieges,
than any in Christendom. This town is the Rebellion; it is all that we have directly striven
for; quitting it, the Confederate leaders have quitted their sheet-anchor, their roof-tree,
their abiding hope. Its history is the epitome of the whole contest, and to us, shivering our
thunderbolts against it for more than four years, Richmond is still a mystery.

Know then, that, whether coming from Washington or Baltimore, the two points of embarkation,
all bound hitherward must rendezvous at Fortress Monroe; thence, in such excellent steamers
as the Dictator, start up the broad James River. To own a country-house upon the "Jeems" river
is the Virginia gentleman's ultimate aspiration. There, with a tobacco-farm, and wide wheatlands,
his feet on his front-porch rails, a Havana cigar between his teeth, and a colored person to
bring him frequent juleps, the Virginia gentleman, confident in the divinity of slavery, hopes
in his natural, refined idleness, to watch the little family graveyard close up to his threshold,
till it shall kindly open and give him sepulture.

Elsewhere men aim to be successful, or enterprising, or eloquent, or scholarly, but that nobleness
of hospitality, high spirit, dignity, and affability which constitute our idea of chivalry
is everywhere save here an exotic. We say that chivalry is "played out," and that the prestige
of "first families" is gone with the hurried retreat before Grant's salamanders. Not so. Secession
as a cause is past the range of possibilities. But no people in their subjugation wear a better
front than these brave old spirits, whose lives are not their own. Fire has ravaged their beautiful
city, soldiers of the color of their servants, guard the crossings and pace the pavement with
bayoneted muskets. But gentlemen they are still, in every pace, and inch, and syllable,--such
men as we were wont to call brothers and countrymen. However, the James River, at which we
commenced, has not a town upon it between the sea and the head of navigation. It is a strong
commentary upon this patriarchal civilization, judged by our gregarious tastes, that one of
the noblest streams in the world should show to the traveller only here and there a pleasant
mansion, flanked by negro cabins, but nowhere a church-spire nor a steam-mill. All that we
see from Fortress Monroe to City Point are ridges of breastworks, rifle-pits, and forts, lying
bare, yellow, and deserted, to defend its passage, excepting at James Island, where the solitary
and broken tower of the ancient colony holds guard over some bramble and ruin. Here Smith founded
the celebrated settlement, which wooed to its threshold the gentle Pocahontas, and fell to
fragments at the behest of the fiery Bacon. The ramparts on the James will remain forever;
great as they are, they would hardly hold the bones of the slain in the capture and defence.
Four hours from Fortress Monroe we pass Harrison's Landing, where two grand armies, beaten
aside from Richmond, sought the shelter of the river, and at City Point quit our large craft,
to be transferred to a light draught vessel, which is to carry the first mail going to Richmond
under the national flag since the beginning of the war.

City Point is still a populous place, and the millions of mules upon it bray hoarsely; but
we leave all these behind, as well as the national standard, which flaunts over General Grant's
late head-quarters, and steam past the mouth of the Appomattox to go through the enemy's lines.

Henceforward every foot of the way is freshly interesting. The Rebel ram Atlanta in tow of
a couple of tugs, goes past us with a torpedo boat at the rear. She is raking, slant, and formidable;
but "old glory" is waving on her. Directly our own leviathan, the Roanoke drifts up, and all
her storm-throated tars cheer like the belch of her guns. We see to the right, the tip of Malvern
Hill, ever sorrowful and sacred, and soon a great unfinished ram careens by, which never grew
to battle-size; the true colors shine above her bulwarks like a flower growing in a carcass.
Then at little intervals there are frequent prizes from the docks of Richmond, tugs, transports,
barges, some of which show under our beautiful banner the Rebel cross, pale and contemptible.
These malcontents committed as great crime against good taste in substituting for our starry
emblem this artistic abomination, as against law and policy in changing the configuration of
the Union. There is another flag, however, which we see, half exultantly, half vindictively,--the
cross of St. George,--flying from a British cutter.

By and by we come to our intrenchments upon the upper James and at Bermuda Hundred. Now they
are very listless and half empty. The boys have gone off to tread on Lee's shanks. Only a few
vessels stand at the landings, and the few remnants have laid down the rifle, and taken up
the fishing-pole. One should come up this river to get a conception of our splendid navy. Sharp-pointed
gunboats, with bullet-proof crows' nests and swivels that are the gentlest murderers ever polished;
monitors through whose eyeholes a ball a big as a cook-stove squints from a columbiad socket;
ferry-boats which are speckled with brass cannon, and all sorts of craft that can float and
manoeuvre, provided they look at us through deadly muzzles are there to the number of fifty
or sixty, as many as make the entire navies of all other American nations. After the war we
must have a great naval review, and invite all the crowned heads to attend it. Soon we reach
Dutch Gap, where lies Butler's canal, or "Butler's gut," as the sailors call it. The river
at this point is so crooked that Butler must have laid it out by the aid of his wrong eye.
The canal is meant to cut on a long elbow; but being almost at right angles to the course of
the river, only the most obliging tide would run through it. As a consequence, it is a sort
of a sluice merely, of insufficient width, and as a "sight" very disappointing to great expectations.
Between the points of debouch of this canal crosses a drawbridge of pontoons, for the use of
our troops, and just beyond it Aiken's Landing, where the flag of truce boat stopped. A fine
brick mansion stands in shore, with a wharf abreast it. The banks around it are trodden here
with many feet. These are the traces of the poor prisoners who reached here, fevered, and starving
and naked, to catch for the first time the sight of cool waters and friends, and the bright
flag which they had followed to the edge of the grave. How they threw up their hats, and cheered
to the feeblest, and wept, and danced, and laughed. Long be the place remembered, as holy,
neutral ground, where death never trod, and multitudes passed from suffering, to freedom and
home. Beyond this point, the most formidable Rebel works we have seen, line the high bluffs
and ridges. They are monuments of patient labor, and make of themselves hills as great as nature's.
But the siege pieces, which often bellowed upon them like thunderbolts along the mountain-tops,
are gone now, and only straggling, meddling fellows pass them at all. The highest of these
works commands both ends of the Dutch Gap canal, and while our lads were digging they often
hid themselves in caves which they dug in the cliff-sides.

We reach the first torpedo at length; a little red flag marks it, by which the boat slips tremulously,
though another and another are before, at the sight of which our nervous folks are agitated.
Here is a monitor with a drag behind it, which has just fished up one; and the sequel is told
by a bloody and motionless figure upon the deck. These torpedoes are the true dragon teeth
of Cadmus, which spring up armed men.

Happily for us, the Rebels have sown but few of them, and the position of these was pointed
out by one of their captains who deserted to our side. In the midst of these lie the obstructions.
Great hulks of vessels and chained spars, and tree-tops which reach quite across the river,
except where our pioneers have hewn a little gap to let the steamer through. Upon these obstructions
a hundred cannon bear from the cliffs before us, and as we go further we see the whole river-bed
sprinkled with strange contrivances to keep back our thunder-bearers. We think it absolutely
impossible, under any circumstances, that our fleet could have got to Richmond so long as the
Rebels contested the passage; each step forward finds new and greater obstacles. The channel
is as narrow as Harlem River and as crooked as a walk in the ramble of Central Park. Each elbow
of the stream is muscular with snag and snare wherever the swift stream swoops around abruptly.
Jagged abatis, driven piles, and artificial lumber, bar the way before us. To the right of
us, to the left of us, behind us, stand up the bare parapets, crowned with airy lookout towers,
where, at the coming of a nautilus, the whole horizon and foreground would rain crossfires
of shell and iron bolts, to sweep into annihilation the tiniest or the staunchest opposition
from the earth's surface, and under the earth and above the earth death waited to leap up and
draw the daring to its bosom. Not one, nor two, nor three lines of defences frowned down as
we cautiously steamed along, but every precipice was bristling with defiance, as if the deep
subterranean fires underlying our race had burst here fitfully and frequently, heaving up the
swells of the hills till they lay hard and barren for human ingenuity to garnish them with
anxious artillery. All along were the deep funnel-shaped cases of the torpedoes just disentombed.
But at nightfall Drury's Bluff flitted by like the battlemented wall of a city, and then we
saw no more.

The band that greeted us from a distance stops playing as the boat nears the wharf.

There is a stillness, in the midst of which Richmond, with her ruins, her spectral roof, afar,
and her unchanging spires, rests beneath a ghastly, fitful glare,--the night stain which a
great conflagration leaves behind it for weeks,--struggling silently with colossal shadows
along the foreground, two hideous walls alone arise in front, shutting these gleams. They are
the Libby Prison and Castle Thunder. Right and left, and far in the moonlighted perspective
beyond, there is a soft glitter upon cornices and domes. A haggard glow of candles, faintly
defines the thoroughfares that have not suffered ruin; while massive, and upon a height overlooking
all, stands the Capitol, flying its black shadow from the sinking moon across a hundred crumbling
walls, until its edges touch the windows of the Libby.

But over its massive roof, dimly seen through the mists of the river, and, as before, "through
the mists of the deep," the banner of the Union, banished for four years, is shaken out again,
broad and beautiful, by the breath of an April night. Upon the face of every leaning figure
on the steamer's deck, in sight of that radiant signal, is the same half-melancholy, half-triumphant
smile.

The thought of the battle which has passed, of the army, which, after struggling through years
for this majestic procession, has swept by and beyond without the view for which its straining
eyes have yearned, is sad and strange. There comes back dimly suggestive, a story of Iran and
his host, thundering at the gates of Tupelo, for the possession of a wondrous jewel, and awakening
once upon a dawn to learn that Tupelo was an empty casket,--to turn back longing, "wondering
eyes upon the city, and to hunt the fleeing prize afar." Yet unto those legions of the republic
which have emptied Richmond of a prize which yet they may have easily clutched, there go out
reverence and blessing even larger than might be bestowed upon them resting in camp, upon these
overlooking hills. That true allegiance, that calm and stern self-sacrifice which impels an
army forward past the sweet applauses and rewarding calms to which great victories might entitle
it, are the purest sources of its glory and its fame. God bless the army that has permitted
us to consummate this journey and to gaze upon this spectacle, while it does not impress us
too proudly, too triumphantly. Both pride and triumph have, of course, a place in the tumultuous
feeling that surges through the hearts of all; yet as in every true man is born an instinct
of compassion for a fallen foe, we prefer that the shout should go up in honor of our victory
alone, and not because these have suffered.

The boat touches the shore at Rockett's, the foot of Richmond. A few minutes' walk and we tread
the pavements of the capital. There are no noisy and no beseeching runners; there is no sound
of life, but the stillness of a catacomb, only as our footsteps fall dull on the deserted sidewalk,
and a funeral troop of echoes bump their elfin heads against the dead walls and closed shutters
in reply, and this is Richmond. Says a melancholy voice: "And this is Richmond."

We are under the shadow of ruins. From the pavements where we walk far off into the gradual
curtain of the night, stretches a vista of desolation. The hundreds of fabrics, the millions
of wealth, that crumbled less than a week ago beneath one fiery kiss, here topple and moulder
into rest. A white smoke-wreath rising occasionally, enwraps a shattered wall as in a shroud.
A gleam of flame shoots a grotesque picture of broken arches and ragged chimneys into the brain.
Huge piles of debris begin to encumber the sidewalks, and even the pavements, as we go on.
The streets in some places are quite choked up from walking. We are among the ruins of half
a city. The wreck, the loneliness, seem interminable. The memory of lights in houses above,
beheld while upon the steamer, alone keeps despondency from a victory over hope; and although
the continued existence of the Spottswood Hotel is vouched for by authority, my lodge in such
a wilderness seems next to impossible. Away to the right, above the waste of blackened walls,
around the phantom-looking flag upon the capitol,--the only sign betwixt heaven and earth,
or upon the earth, that Richmond is not wholly deserted,--beyond and out of the ruins, we walk
past one of two open doorways where the moon serves as candle to a group of talking negroes.
The gas works, injured by fire, are not working, and "ile" has not been struck in the Confederacy.
Not a white man appears until we reach the Spottswood,--there before the entrance is a conclave
of officers,--then, at last, entering, we stand in that most famous of Southern hotels, the
interior of which is filled with the very aroma of the Rebellion. A thankful yielding up of
carpet-bags and valises to the indignant negro waiters, and then a brief moonlight stroll toward
the capitol.

Within the gates of the Square, that swing on their hinges silent as the hour we pass alone,
before us stands the magnificent monument crowned with Crawford's equestrian statue of Washington.
The right hand of the rider, lifted against the sky, points a prophetic finger toward the southwest.
Dark, and motionless, and grand, it is the one symbol belonging solely to the Union, which
they have not dared to desecrate; which they have strangely chosen to consider neither as an
insult nor a rebuke.

Gazing beyond at the capitol itself, and back again at the figure which overlooks the building,
it is not hard to imagine that, while the noisy debates of a congress of traitors to the Union
that he founded were in progress, those bronze lips sometimes smiled in scorn.

Leaving Richmond proper, and descending into the low, squalid portion of the town known as
Rocketts, one sees among the many large warehouses, used without exception for the storage
of tobacco, a certain one more irregular than the rest. An archway leads into it, and upon
the outside of the second story windows runs a long ledge or footway, whereupon sentries used
to stride, guarding the miserable people within. This is the jail of Castle Thunder, and it
was the civil or State prison of the capital. Ill as were the accommodations of prisoners of
war, the treatment of their own unoffending citizens by the Rebel government was ten times
more infamous. We could not repress indignation, nor by any philosophic or charitable effort
excuse the atrocious tyranny which here lashed, chained, handcuffed, tortured, shot, and hung,
hundreds of people whom it could not stultify or impress. We may grant that the Confederacy
had become a government; that, in its perilous incipiency, it had apology for severity and
rigor with all malcontents; that, in its own struggle for death or life, it might, in self-defence,
absorb all private liberty; but even thus the terrible testimony of this Castle Thunder is
an everlasting stigma upon the Southern cause. We entered its strong portal, and there in the
new commandant's room lay the record left behind by the Confederates. Its pages made one shudder.

These are some of the entries:--

     "George Barton,--giving food to Federal prisoners of war; forty
     lashes upon the bare back. Approved. Sentence carried into effect
     July 2.

     "Peter B. Innis,--passing forged government notes; chain and ball
     for twelve months; forty lashes a day. Approved.

     "Arthur Wright,--attempting to desert to the enemy; sentenced to be
     shot. Approved. Carried into effect, March 26.

     "John Morton,--communicating with the enemy; to be hung. Approved.
     Carried into effect, March 26."

In an inner room are some fifty pairs of balls and chains, with anklets and handcuffs upon
them, which have bent the spirit and body of many a resisting heart. Within are two condemned
cells, perfectly dark,--a faded flap over the window peep-hole,--the smell from which would
knock a strong man down.

For in their centre lies the sink, ever open, and the floors are sappy with uncleanliness.
To the right of these, a door leads to a walled yard not forty feet long, nor fifteen wide,
overlooked by the barred windows of the main prison rooms, and by sentry boxes upon the wall-top.
Here the wretched were shot and hung in sight of their trembling comrades. The brick wall at
the foot of the yard is scarred and crushed by balls and bullets which first passed through
some human heart and wrote here their damning testimony. The gallows had been suspended from
a wing in the ledge, and in mid-air the impotent captive swung, none daring or willing to say
a good word for him; and not for any offence against God's law, not for wronging his neighbor,
or shedding blood, or making his kind miserable, but for standing in the way of an upstart
organization, which his impulse and his judgment alike impelled him to oppose. This little
yard, bullet-marked, close, and shut from all sympathy, is to us the ghastliest spot in the
world. Can Mr. Davis visit it, and pray as he does so devoutly afterward? When men plead the
justice of the South, and arguments are prompt to favor them, let this prison yard rise up
and say that no such crimes in liberty's name have ever been committed, on this continent,
at least. Up stairs, in Castle Thunder, there are two or three large rooms, barred and dimly
lit, and two or three series of condemned cells, pent-up and pitchy, where, by a refinement
of cruelty, the ceiling has been built low so that no man can stand upright. Here fifteen or
twenty were crowded together, and, in the burning atmosphere, they stripped themselves stark
naked, so that when in the morning the cell-doors were opened, they came forth as from the
grave, begging for death. There are women's cells too; for this great and valiant government
recognized women as belligerents, and locked them up close to a sentry's cartridge, so that,
in the bitterness of solitude, they were unsexed, and railed, and blasphemed, like wanton things.
On the pavements before the jail, were hidden numberless guards, who shot at every rag fluttering
from the cages, and all this little circle of death and terror was enacted close to the bright
river, and airy pediment of that high capitol, where bold men hoped by war to wring from a
reluctant Union, acknowledgment of arrogant independence to rein civilization as it pleased,
and warp the destinies of our race.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE RUINS OF THE REBELLION.

When Richmond was a plain city, a county seat, and the residence of a governor and commonwealth
legislature, its enterprise was as gradual as its hospitality and private probity were steadfast.
It was always a fierce political arena, and its two great journals, the Whig and Enquirer,
were not more violently partisan than its hustings. In the latter its debaters were wide-famed.
No such "stump" has ever existed in America, commencing with Patrick Henry, whose eloquence
was as intense and telling as his statesmanship was errant and inconsistent, and passing through
the shrill and bitter apostrophies of John Randolph down to the latest era of Henry A. Wise,
the most sufferable and interminable campaign orator extant, and John Minor Botts, scarcely
his inferior. With us, out of door rhetoric is dry, studied, and argumentative; here an inspiration,
based upon feeling rather than reason, and so earnest that it knew no personal friendship where
its political affinities stopped. Whig and Democrat were not men of the same race or family
in Richmond; they passed each other on the sidewalk with a sneer or a scowl, and knew no coalition
even in the house of God. Even when the Whig party as an organization deceased, the Whigs,
as individuals, retained their traditional antipathy, and the advent of secession was decried
by these, not because they loved the Union more, but the triumphant Democracy the less. Separation
was a feature of the hated faith, and no good could come out of Nazareth. The Union men of
Richmond who have hungered in Castle Thunder, and been driven, needy and naked, from the South,
were all old line Whigs, distrusting the North, but disliking Democracy. However, the war burst
at last, heralded by that mysterious lunatic who appeared like a warning giant in the twilight
day of the Union,--old John Brown; and as the Gulf States wheeled into line and pulled down
the old colors, the Old Dominion, Southern and slaveholding, was too impulsive not to follow
the whirlwind. She did not go for policy's sake, nor for principle's sake, but for emotion's
sake. How wild and jubilant, and confident, were those Richmond mass meetings, at which separation
was counselled! How awful seems their levity at this distance, with the city conquered and
in ruins! On the Capitol Hill the mad orators inveighed; within the Capitol met the disunion
assembly in secret and prolonged session; before the American, the Exchange, and the Spottswood
hotels, visiting commissioners harangued the crowd; the people went to ballot on the day of
State suicide, with laughing and wagging, and at the decree that Virginia and her people had
resolved to quit the fabric of their fathers, bonfires and illuminations lit up the river and
the sky.

Done, these were the men to stand fast. Done in dream, the first acts were mirages rather than
comprehensible events. They marched upon Harper's Ferry; they suppressed the Unionists in their
midst; they erased the sacred mottoes of amity and unity from their monuments, and won to the
new cause they so blindly embraced every inch of their soil except Old Point, where Fortress
Monroe still stood defiant, to be in the end the source of their downfall. Gayly went the populace
of Richmond, and splendid parties made the nights lustrous. When they heard that their town
was mentioned, among many others, as the probable Confederate capital, they threw their hearts
into the suggestion and offered lands and edifices as free gifts for the honor of being the
centre of the South. A few, more interested, beheld in the coming of the seat of government
higher rents and increased patronage, crowded hotels, and railway stock at a premium; but the
mass, with the enthusiasm of women or children, thought only of their beloved city growing
in rank and power; the home of legislators, orators, and savans; the seat of all rank and the
depository of archives. At last the good news came; Richmond was the capital of a great nation;
that courtesy bound all grateful Virginian hearts to the common cause forever; the heyday and
gratulation were renewed; the new President, and the reverend senators appeared on Richmond
streets; the citizens were proud and happy.

There was no spectre of the mighty North, slowly rising from lethargy like those Medicean figures
of Michael Angelo, which leap from stone to avengers. There was no mutter of coming storm,
no clank of coming sabres and bayonets, no creak of great wheels rolling southward, and war
in its extremest and most deadly phase. Richmond and Virginia laughed at these, flushed in
the present, and invincible in the past. They only held high heads,--and trade, with vanity,
grew strong, till every citizen wondered why all this glory had been so long delayed, and despised
the ten years preceding the rupture, if not, indeed, the whole past of the Union.

The President of the United States proclaimed war; an army marched upon the city. Not until
the battle of Bull Run, when the dead and mangled came by hundreds into the town, did any one
discover the consequences of Richmond's new distinction; but by this time the Rebel government
had absorbed Virginia, and was master of the city. Thenceforward Richmond was the scene of
all terrors, the prey of all fears and passions. Campaign after campaign was directed against
her; she lived in the perpetual thunder of cannon; raiders pressed to her gates; she was a
great garrison and hospital only, besieged and cut off from her own provinces; armies passed
through her to the sound of drums, and returned to the creak of ambulances. She lost her social
prestige, and became a barrack-city, filled with sutlers, adventurers, and refugees, till,
bearing bravely up amid domestic riot and horrible demoralization,--a jail, a navy-yard, a
base of operations,--she grew pinched, and base, and haggard, and, at last, deserted. Given
over to sack and fire, the wretches who used her retreated in the night, and the enemies she
had provoked marched over her defences, and laid her--spent, degenerate, and disgraced--under
martial law.

The outline of the scenes immediately associated with the evacuation of Richmond has been told
by telegraph. Now that the stupefied citizens have recovered reason and memory so well as to
tell us the story, it seems the most dramatic and fearful of the war. On Saturday the city
was calm and trusting; Lee, its idol, held Grant, at Petersburg, fast; the daily journals came
out as usual, filled with soothing accounts; that night came vague rumors of reverses; in the
morning vaguer rumors of evacuation; by Sunday night the public records were burned in the
streets, and the only remaining railway carried off the specie of the banks; before daylight
on Monday, the explosions of bridges and half-built ships of war shook the houses; in the imperfect
day, women, and old men, and children began to sway and surge before the guarded depot, which
refused to admit them; then the town fell afire; no remonstrance could pacify the incendiaries;
the spring wind carried the flame from the burning boats on the canal to the great Galligo
Mills, to files of massive warehouses groaning with tobacco, into the heart of the town, where
stores, and vaults, and banks, and factories lined the wide, undulating streets; it filled
the gray concave with flame till the stars of the dawn shrank to pale invisibility in the advancing
glare, and the crackle of hot roofs and beams, and the crash of walls and timbers, drowned
the cries of the frightened and bankrupt, who beheld their fortunes wither in an hour, and
the inheritance of their children fall to ashes. By the red, consuming light, poured past the
straggling Confederate soldiers, dead to the acknowledgment of private rights, and sacking
shop and home with curses and ribaldry; the suburban citizens and the menial negroes adopted
their examples; carrying off whatever came next their hands, and with arms full of "swag,"
dropping it in the highway, lured by some dearer plunder. Negroes, with baskets of stolen champagne
and rare jars of tamarinds, sought their dusky quarters to swill and carouse; and whites of
the middle, and even of the higher class, lent themselves to theft, who, before this debased
era, would have died before so surrendering their honor. All was peril, terror, and license;
all who had nothing to lose were thieves; all who had anything left to lose were cowards. The
conflagration swept through the densest, proudest blocks, driving off, not only the resident
worthy, but the resident corrupt. Where were the lewd contractors, who had hoarded Confederate
scrip by the basest exactions? With the fall of the capital their dollars dwindled to dust;
four years of crime had resulted in beggary; still, with grasping palms, they adhered to their
valueless paper, bearing it away. But of all the wretched, the Cyprians were the foremost.
These inhabited the dense and business part of the town, where their houses were serried and
compact; and, driven forth by the fire, they sought the street in their plumes and calicoes,
to spend a cold and shivering bivouac in the square of the Capitol. From afar, the rich men
of Sunday watched the flames of Monday sweeping on in terrible impetuosity, knowing that every
tongue of light which leaped on high carried with it the competence they had sinned to acquire.
And behind all, plunderer, incendiary, and straggler, came the one vague, overlapping, dreadful
fear of--the enemy. Would they finish what friends had commenced,--the sack, the desolation,
the slaughter of the place? Richmond had cost them half a million of lives, a mountain of blood
and wealth, four years of deadly struggle; would they not complete its ruin?

The morning came; the Confederates were gone; cavalry in blue galloped up the streets; a brigade
of white infantry filed after them; then came the detested negroes. Behold! the victors, the
subjugators, assist to quench the flames,--and Richmond is captured, but secure!

Many of the churches were open on the Sunday of April 9, 1865, and were thinly attended by
the more adventurous of the citizens, with a sprinkling of soldiers and Northern civilians.
Mr. Woodbridge, at the Monument Church, built on the site of a famous burnt theatre, prayed
for "all in authority," and held his tongue upon dangerous topics. The First Baptist Negro
Church has been occupied all the week by Massachusetts chaplains, and Northern negro preachers,
who have talked the gospel of John Brown to gaping audiences of wool, white-eyeball, and ivory,
telling them that the day of deliverance has come, and that they have only to possess the land
which the Lord by the bayonet has given them. To-day, Mr. Allen, the regular white preacher,
occupied the pulpit, and told the negroes that slavery was a divine institution, which would
continue forever, and that the duty of every good servant was to stay at home and mind his
master. Half of the enlightened Africans got up midway of the discourse and left; the rest
were in doubt, and two or three black class-leaders, whom the parson had wheeled over, prayed
lustily that the Lord would keep Old Virginny from new ideas and all Yankee salvations; so
that in the end the population were quite tangled up, as much so as if they had read the book
of Revelation. I attended Saint Paul's, the fashionable Episcopalian church, where Lee, Davis,
Memminger, and the rest had been communicants, and heard Doctor Minnegerode discourse. He was
one of the Prussian refugees of 1848, and, though a hot Jacobin there, became a more bitter
secessionist here. He is learned, fluent, and thoughtful, but speaks with a slight Teutonic
accent. Jeff Davis's pew was occupied by nobody, the door thereof being shut. Jeff was a very
devout man, but not so much so as Lee, who made all the responses fervently, and knelt at every
requirement. This church is capable of "seating" fifteen hundred persons, has galleries running
entirely around it, and is sustained at the roof within by composite pilasters of plaster,
and at the pulpit by columns of mongrel Corinthian; the tout ensemble is very excellent; a
darkey sexton gave us a pew, and there were some handsome ladies present, dark Richmond beauties,
haughty and thinly clothed, with only here and there a jockey-feathered hat, or a velvet mantilla,
to tell of long siege and privation. We saw that those who dressed the shabbiest had yet preserved
some little article of jewelry--a finger-ring, a brooch, a bracelet, showing how the last thing
in woman to die is her vanity. Poor, proud souls! Last Sunday many of them were heiresses;
now many of them could not pay the expenses of their own funerals. There were some Confederate
officers in the house. They reminded me of the captive Jews holding worship in their gutted
Temple. Some ruffians broke into this church after the occupation, and wrote ribaldry in the
Bible and hymn-book. Dr. Minnegerode dared not pray for the Confederate States, and his sermon
was trite, based upon the text of the eleventh chapter of the Acts--"The disciples were first
called Christians in Antioch." Then it spoke of the heathen being driven out and the chosen
people planted; afflicted by God's disfavor, the forefathers held the territory, and the generation
extant would yet rout its enemies. But now the old stock were put to shame, a reproach to their
neighbors and those that dwelt round about them. "Thou hast broken us in the place of dragons,
and covered us with the shadow of death," going not forth with our armies, bowing our souls
to the dust till our bellies cleave unto the earth; we are killed all the day long, and counted
as sheep for the slaughter.

Let all who would drink the essence of sorrow and anguish, read this wonderful Psalm, to learn
how after this recapitulation, the parson said aloud the thrilling invocation.

"Arise! for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake."

Then came the next Psalm, light and tripping, full of praise for the king and his bride, coming
to the nuptials with her virgin train: "instead of thy fathers, shall be thy children, whom
thou mayst make princes in all the earth." A poetic parallel might be drawn between all this
and the early hopes of Richmond; but the third Psalm came in like a beautiful peroration.

"God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble,--the Lord of Hosts is with
us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah!

Clear, direct, and in meaning monotone, the captive high-priest read all this, so fearfully
applicable to the subjugated and ruined town, and then the organ threw its tender music into
the half-empty concave, sobbing like a far voice of multitudes, until the sweet singing of
Madame Ruhl, the chorister, swept into the moan of pipes, and rose to a grand peal, quivering
and trilling, like a nightingale wounded, making more tears than the sublimest operatic effort
and the house reeled and trembled, as if Miriam and her chanting virgins were lifting praises
to God in the midst of the desert.

That part of the New Testament read, by some strange fatuity, touches also the despair of the
city. It told of Christ betrayed by Iscariot, deserted by his disciples, saying to his few
trusty ones: "I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad."
"Can ye not watch with me one hour?" he says to the timid and sleeping; and turning to his
conquerors, avers that the Son of Man shall return to Jerusalem, "sitting on the right hand
of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven." All this, of course, was the prescribed lesson
for the Sunday before Easter, which to-day happened to be; but had the pastor searched it out
to meet the exigencies of the place and time, it could not have been more apropos. He read
also from Daniel, where the king's dream was interpreted; his realm, like a tree worn down
to the root, and the king himself making his dwelling with the wild asses, but in the end "thy
kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have known that the heavens do rule."

Again the organ rang, and the wonderful voice of the choristers alternated with deep religious
prayers, whose refrain was, "Have mercy upon us."

