Transcriber's Note: Some obvious typographical       |
     | errors have been corrected in this text. For a list  |
     | please see the bottom of the document. To the initiated, the whole book may seem too obvious; but it has
not been written for them, but for those to whom these proceedings are
unfamiliar. There are many who have a certain curiosity about the
courts, and at the same time a real respect for justice, mingled with
amusement at the panoplies and antiquated forms of legal procedure.

  F. DEW. W.

  NEW YORK,
  January, 1917. Nothing
Is so wrong with us anyway, not before, and is in all cases prior to each apartment a special
door. No, of completing with us is the question. In closing the morning at six I all the doors, but
my wife does, and in the evening at nine clock I have to conclude, and In the method we have
always been good. "

"But the basement is finished yet," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"Well, you see, Sir," replied the janitor, "it can not again so one, two, three answer. At night,
they should probably be really closed, because on the day that would indeed not at all, if only
because the heating, and where the young ladies so often coals potatoes and bring it up, and
the like. That would an eternal up and unlocking. It is anyway the whole day, 'Lord caretaker,
oh please help me! " 'House Master, please, just a moment. " I should always be in a hundred
places at once.

No, it is for all parts at the best if the basement, an open for all, and it also has No one
had some fault. "

"But they should even once," recalled the president, "have caught a man who crept in the basement
had. "

"So," said the caretaker thinking.

"Oh, that was probably the Urschel says," he said after a break from
amused.

"Yes, before no one needed to be afraid that looked so green in the
face, as if he had not eaten all night immature apples.

That was a homeless person, or he may have a hidden by the girls, because the Virgin all have
their lover if they also do even the most squeamish. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann made a serious face and said sternly:

"Do you remember, who on 2 October last year, and one is gone? "

"Good heavens," sighed the concierge, "how can I keep the things in our daily goes in and out! Imagine,
Mr. President, three houses with eighteen parties which I still do not even expected, in the
one are four parties in the two other seven.

And how to do it completely at the beginning of October, when one party moves out and the other
distance, and the artisans, it brings with it! "

'Just because there are special days, "insisted the President," You have to perhaps keep in
mind. Even the sudden death of the woman Swieter that the most past Inhabited house, highlighted
the day among the others. Later, when the suspect known to you was, you surely have investigated
in your mind who you made that day and have seen a go. "

will do "I, what I can to you to please, Mr. President," said the janitor. "The chimney sweep,
who was in the morning because you will be interested not so well,
and the postman nor, and the craftsmen went to the house of the woman
Swieter anything because that is had taken place in the House, no
parade.

To beggars, it has not been lacking, and what the concerns, the woman was Swieter own fault.
The other parties complained for them, that they dukes the beggars,
because they're always something there.

By the way, to me it has However every little thing properly paid, they are not among those who
think like us would be there to make everything all in vain. So she could finally with the
beggars also hold, as she wanted. You are also there before and have in God's name to their Thing
coming. "

"Think properly," said the president, "whether from four und sechs clock in the afternoon a beggar
have seen one that was unknown to you that you noticed! "

"Between four and six clock?" Said the caretaker profound. "I just sent my Boys a beer in the
economy at the corner and waited at the gate, until he returned, and then I put the measure on
the stairs to take a sip now and then. By now the woman on the ground floor of the second
Councilor came home and complained of what they knew I had not heated, and I said, 'But Mrs.
Councilor, beautiful in this weather! Such Weather we have not had all summer, and the little
wind to you but do nothing, it's South Wind, 'and so on, until it for probably einsah and
again went away. Yes, and then came one that had probably brought something, a hat or a mantilla
or the like, for he had a box, probably for the inn, there was at that time such a fashion addict,
and then came the funny. The first I had not seen and wanted run past me as if I were a lamp post,
and I did not leave him on purpose out, because I thought I wanted to see but if he anrennte
against me. Then he suddenly stopped close to me and said: 'Did you
fire, your honor?

" and I was holding a cigarette out. I laughed and pulled out my
Swedish and made him a light, and to thank you He nodded a bit and
took his cap.

A beggar was not, however, he had all sorts of for sale, spoons and whisks, which he wore on a rope
to the hand. As he had just made the Door was gone, he threw the cigarette into the lilac bushes
at the gate, whether they are not burned or otherwise not tasted, I do not know, and I wanted
to pick up her first, But then I thought, Oh, let it be a fine but it will not be. "

"Can you give an accurate, reliable description of this man," asked the chairman.

"No, Mr. President," said the concierge, as he shook his head and
smiled, as if he said to go into the trap of this he would be too
smart.

"As much as I would favor did, so I will have nothing to do. I think he pretty long, black hair
had, and that he came to speak dreamily dahergeschlendert. And if it against me because would
stand up, I would recognize him, too well. But whether his coat gray or green or brown was and
what he wore for boots, and if he holes in the stockings had, and what is more like, I could
not really say. "

"Have not thought about what might be the kind of man," asked the chairman.

"Well, I did so, Mr. President, that he sold spoon," said the janitor, "while was nothing to
think. This would take my time far too much upon if I think about every peddler was worrying.
You need only imagine what people in for us go in and out! There is, for example, in the third
house on the second floor of Mr. Rapeseed, Composer and music writer, a terribly nervous person,
and if I do so much have patience with him, he would long since moved
out.

You just have to see what kind of people to the come when one comes
to nothing afterwards.

Men and women come to him sing something or play, the pure gypsy band, and after it had been an
artist and are fine people.

On the day the way, the piano tuner has been with him, he has sent away because he knew from
Ursula, the girl, that her mistress had a bad night and had to sleep.
Good-natured he is, the Lord seed.

The tuner is of not having a cigarette was.

Because who has a red face and blond hair, the familiar I, because he comes every three months to
the Lord seed. "

"The man has come thus from the third house," said the President.

"From the second he could also come when the board is in there," said the caretaker, "I saw
him only when he got to the front where I stand."

"I beg to ask the concierge whether the accused, the man with the cigarette-like looks, "said
the prosecutor, as he stretched out his arm with imperator African
gesture.

"Will you look at the defendant then," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann the
caretaker on.

The janitor turned slowly and looked Deruga to amuse the investigation seemed attentive and
astonished.

"I'm as stumped, Mr. President," he said at last. "I would swear that I am the Lord have since
seen it before. "

"You have to imagine him with a black wig and false beard," said the
chairman.

"Impossible," said the concierge with unusual determination. "If I have such a Performances
begin, I know, finally, no more of the other, and afterwards I will pay for what I imagined, and
I suddenly perjury on the Neck. For you see, Mr. President, if you start thinking like one looked
added, and compares it with this and that, one has modified everything
possible, and at the end is it just pure imagination have been.

"

"You have, then," said the president, not an exact memory image "of the man that you asked for
a light. Do you remember even to other people, on 2 October between four and sechs clock wrong
in your homes? "

"Yes," replied the janitor. "I had just applied my boys, the beer mug again to contribute to the economy,
and looked after him as he walked across the street, called me a from behind and asked for
the next stop for taxicabs. He was so in Hurry that he almost waited until I had given him
proper notice, and gave me a Puff in the side as he walked past me.

A moment later I called my wife because the line pipe the board in the second home was blocked
once again - as it always stuck namely their bones and hair combed into it, as if the sink would
be the shit ton - well, and I had looked there and then came into
the garden, I just saw the doctor the third Go home because of the
woman Swieter, who was among the dead.

       "

"What the Lord made an impression on you," asked the chairman, "who in so great Speed ​​was?
"

"I remember," said the concierge, "that he wore a long, wide coat. For I thought to myself, in
the current fashion wear skirts and the women men men women stuff.

From behind he looked like a muffled woman. Otherwise it is a fine Mr been. "

The prosecutor asked to be allowed to come back to the man with the cigarette. He want to know
whether he or pure German as a foreign national have spoken.

"Yeah, you know," said the concierge, "to talk just like one of us, even the least. I have often
thought that the talks therefore gibberish? and afterwards it was a German and nothing more. 'Did
you fire, your honor? "" He repeated the sentence itself, like to be reminded by the words
of tone and intonation. "Intrinsic has it sounded so, but very sweet, very fun, and good German
is but have been. The car, however, geschnauft with so that I could barely understand him, and he
has me, I think also not well understood, at least he first ran for
the wrong side, even though I told him had explained clearly.

It can of course also have been because of the great haste. "

"This gentleman," said the chairman, "is probably the same who, after the board Rooms had to
be asked and refused.

There is no trace of him raise been, and we assume that he has stayed here only temporarily.
"

* * * * *

At the end of that meeting, all parties, except for Deruga tired,
irritable and excited.

Lord of Wydenbrucks thoughts were with the dream of the deceased woman the Ursula had described,
and he spoke out about against Dr. = = Bernburg, as he next to him went through the wide corridors
of the courthouse.

"The child," he said, "attended it, of course, was an image of the Father, the swings indicates
sensory impulses. There is no doubt that she was waiting for him. "

= Dr. = Bernburg, who looked very pale, had just lit a cigar and began to recover a bit.

"That's true," he said hastily. "The conclusions of two opposite directions meet like the drill
in a tunnel. He had asked for money, which had their memories animated. They waited for him in a loving
or sentimental mood. He came in disguise a peddler who sells wooden
spoon.

Either it was drawn into the mystery of the Ursula, or he knew how to deceive their attention,
or woman Swieter even opened him. And would the result of the preliminary investigation and
if I had known to ask questions, I should have brought out the facts on the spot. I lay on
the rack, while this cumbersome apparatus worked.

"= = Dr. Bernburger wiped his hand with the handkerchief from, with his thin fingers trembled.

"So
you think," asked Dr. = = from Wydenbruck, "that the desire of reunion of Deruga went out
and had a reason for concern in the money? "

"I think probably," said Dr. = = Bernburg. "In any case, the Slovak has it killed, and the Slovak
was Deruga. "

"In my opinion," said Dr. = = from Wydenbruck, "was based on the magnetic
attraction the hysterical one another disastrous moves.

How well have the desire dressed may have been, this must be the core. "

"Whether it is possible that the discarded cigarette in the bushes
would be still?"

Said Bernburg, Pursuing his thoughts. "But how much snow and rain has already fallen out."

"Why could it not also have been with the car?" Turned = Dr. = Wydenbruck of one.

"He was at ease that he was in a hurry. The other called for fire to ease to , Appear and threw
away the cigarette like it because he did not want to smoke. By the way Most smokers also have
matches with him.

I also felt it, and the girl led the Slovaks. I saw it as the second face. "

Lord of Wydenbruck looked at his friend with a new interest from the
side.

"The would be decisive, "he said, and asked if his friend had often would have observed such
phenomena in itself.

In the same way, the two walked through the flat, Deruga was fine with the Judicial Council
watching in a window niche in the conversation, the casual passers-by.

"If I were the president," said Deruga, "I would with a loaded revolver
in the Meeting to take and hold the witnesses to his face, and if
they decided not to then, to respond properly, I would shoot them
down.

The man has an incomprehensible patience. "

At this moment he saw Dr. = = Bernburg approaching with his companion,
took a surprising Cigarette from his case came back a few steps and
said to Dr. = = Bernburg, "Have You fire, your honor?

"Then, after he had lit his cigarette, he placed himself back in addition to the Judicial Council,
giving it winks out a straight face.

= Dr. = Bernburg was turned pale with excitement as he Deruga silently
burning Cigar held out. It is clear he thought that he makes fun of
me. About how much Acumen, presence of mind, boldness and coolness
has this man, and it is him capable of anything. However, when he
was not guilty, his behavior only became the father of the Safety
of bystanders. But his was the safety of the offender's shrewd cynical;
it was the challenge of a brilliant criminal who considers himself
unüberführbar.

= = Dr. Burger was excited to Bern and deepened in
order to express his thoughts aloud, he went quickly, his friend a
few steps ahead.

"He has to guess your thoughts," said the latter.
"This is another symptom of hysteria, just as like the coolness. It
will be modified but must see that there is something morbid, Lust
is a kind of murder. "

"But the woman he was killed, fifty-two years
old," said Dr. = = Bernburg annoying.

"This is just the perversity,"
said Dr. = = from Wydenbruck. "Maybe they merged it also by the memory
of his mother, causing the destruction of passion and lust composite
reinforced slope was disastrous. "

Meanwhile, the counselor made
his client complaints. "You really are a pot of Mice, "he said. "I
would have you hang a padlock on the mouth. What was that again for
an eruption? "

"Ah," said Deruga, "why should I not the two young
sharks a bone between throw the crooked teeth? Did you not see how
it spilled out of his head before the eyes of greed? I'm only sorry
that I can not see how they gnaw it. "

"With sharks is not to be
trifled with," said the counselor, "and even though you are a worthless
Italians are, I would like not just that he would get you between
the teeth. "

= VII =

The baroness had scarcely left the hall on
the arm of her husband, as an usher her in the way they came in and
asked on behalf of the Higher Regional Court Council Zeunemann him
to a brief seek conversation in his room. He was ready, "added the
court servants, they immediately to lead.

"You come with me," she
said, turning towards her husband, who joined willingly. He had to
admit though, he said that he was hungry, but were the gentlemen of
the court, in the same case, and it would not last long.

The High
Court Judge, she said in French, would be a very pleasant man, somewhat
lower middle vain, but pleasing, and basically, she thought, quite
on their side.

= Dr. = Zeunemann had already changed clothes and
nibbling on a piece of chocolate to strengthen.
Even an empty court-room is not as other rooms. Like an empty theater there remains an atmosphere
of glamour, of mystery, and yet equally true there remains a substantial, strong odor of crowds.

It is said that every theater retains its own peculiar smell. The scientific investigation
of the psychology of odors is too subtle to be understandable. The question of analyzing the
exudations of a nervous crowd seems interesting, but the remembrance of an anxious humanity
is always present. In former times the attendant placed a small bunch of herbs and aromatic
flowers on the judge's desk, and glasses of the dried bouquets remained in a row for long periods.

Hygienically considered the courts are unsanitary. If the windows are opened the cold air is
apt to draw directly on the heads of the jury and the stenographer. In summer the noise of
city streets, the cars, the elevated, the cries of children, the hand-organs, the flies, are
not at all conformable to the supposed dignity of the court. It is well-known that the crowded
and unhealthy conditions of the courts are conducive to disease as well as discomfort to the
inhabitants.

The connotations of the name court are generally impressive. There is the suggestion of jail,
of punishment, of something final, of absolute judgment. Also it suggests the courtyard of
a tenement house, an alleyway or something shut in and confined. I Like
you could marry a rich woman and would be in the same position as Them. By the way, I did not
even necessary because I can at any time over the assets of my divorced women have. After her death
I become a rich man, and probably also stingy and greedy as you do now, so take my money as long
as I'm still poor, dear Child! " I ask the way to a reassessment, "added Mr. Rabbit," that I tell
what has kept the memory of me or try to convince me. The best will be when you Dr. = = Deruga
ask yourself whether it accepts the reproduced words of mine as his own. "

The President had hardly turned his head to Deruga when he called out cheerfully: "Excellent was the
whole description and one worthy of such an excellent writer. I make a is much better impression
than I thought possible. I probably have everything that said, only Mr. Hase, decent as he is,
left out all the insults, the I have thrown him personally at his head, his heartlessness, hypocrisy,
vanity and so on. "

"I have omitted, which is not necessarily to the point," said Mr. Hare against the President turned,
"but I had to suppress his attacks against me, maybe not should, because it is clear how much
it at the moment of excitement during the reign his temperament is, and you only draw conclusions
from the very conditionally comments can he do in such moments. "

"I ask for permission," said Justice Fein, rising, "this very real observation add the witness a
similar one. The result of the statement is mostly just heard, Deruga that one at all should not take
too seriously. It must have been in Italy and the Italians know about him to judge correctly.
His speeches remind sometimes to the pathos with an Italian quack in the market his corn patch
praises: 'My Ladies and gentlemen, and if your own brother would be here, he is not honest, you
could To serve as I do. Not for my sake, for your sake I am here, because what do the few pennies
you give me against what I procure you a painless Existence, a victorious course, the favor of women,
the admiration of men! ""

While there was laughter in the audience, put = Dr. = Zeunemann slight wrinkle in his forehead
and said: "One must not forget after all that the Italians as the smart people from their national
peculiarities make very good use to know, and that those who often bear masks, therefore it
has a face, if may be difficult sometimes to decide which is the is real. But I will not now
drive philosophy, but the facts ascertained and I would like to point out that we know from
the accused or similar expressions have become, which he made in complete mental balance. I
also want to know whether the defendant has paid then the drawn amount? "

Mr. Hare was sorry to give any information. At the forefront of jury seats Winkler Commerce rose and said: "There
are the required information to us may be the Needle into the tie of the accused. It would be
pledged, it so obviously has triggered! "

Deruga confirmed that it was the needle that he receive back pay to the said sum , have pulled it out
and offered it to the tour.

"Have you really given the three hundred marks," asked the counselor fine. "How did left you
for, like so much money? "Deruga somewhat impatiently shrugged his shoulders. "Faith Do they, "he
said," I would not have any moment can give three hundred marks? I need only give such an advance
from the Italian consulate to let for translations, studies, or the like. Deruga has no brain
in the skull and Potatoes.

"

Meanwhile, the chairman deems the needle and asked Mr. Hare if it
is the same was allegedly made by the accused that night as a deposit,
which Peter Rabbit, after taking a discrete view was thrown out, yes.

"It is a strikingly beautiful piece," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, lost
in the sight of the needle, the head with a turban represented Mohr,
the head consisted of a black turban of the of a white pearl, and
the latter was rich with rubies and emeralds occupied.

"A gift from my late wife," said Deruga by the needle in reception adopted. She said she was made
for an Othello like me. "

After this incident, the Chairman asked the witness whether he was still something to add have.
About Mr. Hase's face was immovable for the first time a faint blush, and his Namely, attention
had been distracted by the Baroness Truschkowitz which, in the first Number of spectators
sitting, leaned forward and far from the president held needle had
observed with keen attention.

Styled, he turned frightened around and said that he knew nothing more communicated to the point,
but was ready to distant to answer questions.

Peter Rabbit left after the close of the hearing the court building,
but rather waited for Dr. = = Zeunemann, stood up before him and asked
permission to address a few questions to him, whereupon the High Court
Judge took him to his room.

Mainly wanted to know Mr. Hare, what sentence the defendant could make some, if he were convicted,
contrary to expectations.

"Yes, you see, dear sir," replied Dr. = = Zeunemann while his robe with the Frock exchanged, "is
so far the only indictment to manslaughter, and he would with a few years in prison escape. But
it actually provides our prosecutor as murder to, and if there still appears some end goal indicium,
the story is questionable be.

If it were established, for example, known that the man with the
substance of the will was, indeed, it would penetrate the opinion
of the prosecutor likely, and in the case We would also immediately,
I'm sorry, the arrest must proceed.

"

"May I ask," inquired Mr. Hare, "what do you think personally the
matter?"

"I'm very psychological," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "in order not to
share certain problematic to take characters.

What does a basic color of this chameleon really, about bin I tell you the truth, not yet in the
clear. "

Why should he even have any color? "Said Mr Hare relatively lively. "The shimmering change is
the nature of this fabulous creature. I have a lot of sympathy for Chameleons, "he added after
a pause.

"I understand, I understand," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "beautiful, but slippery. The aesthetic Approach
is very different from the moral and this is not always identical with the Law. "

He was about to take a broad-brimmed felt hat from the rack, and there was a knock on Come be surly
Truschkowitz the Baroness appeared on the threshold of the prosecutor
opened the door.

"Dear President said," it quickly, giving him her in a white leather glove lying festa staked shook hands,
"I know that it is intrusive in the extreme, in your sanctuary and, moreover, at this time
to attack, but you are too chivalrous to throw me out, and I am ignoble, not to take advantage
of your courtesy. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann gave a comical groan. "Make it at least briefly,
Baroness," he said.

She laughed a bright, youthful laughter, in which a cooing sound was something seductive about
the had. "I'll do it shortly," she said, "if only you, Mr. President,
it is not in the Length of pull.

It concerns the needle that you have had this in hand and gave back to that man. I recognized
immediately as an heirloom of my great-grandmother, that is, me and my late great-grandmother's
cousin.

It is intolerable to me, this precious keepsake in the knowing hands of that man, and I want
to ask you cause that she handed me will be. "

"You, Baroness," said Dr. = = Zeunemann "surprised, yes, because they heard you?"

"Of course," said the baroness, "I'm known to be the next of kin of the deceased."

= Dr. = Zeunemann was so concerned that he was involuntarily, without
even the Baroness to offer a gesture to a chair.

"But the needle was not even your cousin," he said, "they had seen fit to give it away."

"Unfortunately," said the baroness, "but after she divorced, and in
such a situation to be decent people back their gifts.

In addition, he has yet killed! Since you can not let him take her needle. "

The perplexed looks that moved the High Court Judge with the prosecutor
argued that they by no means out of the socket.

"Well," she said with a vigorous nod of encouragement. "You see that you are there to pull
the thing in the length."

"Then you order me to be short," said Dr. = = Zeunemann that had been
collected, "I tell you flatly that your wish is fulfilled.

Even if Dr. = = Deruga sentenced , we could not take him, what he
heard, but he is not convicted and meanwhile your late wife's cousin
killed as little as - forgive - as You and me.

"

"Mr. President," said the lady with a reproachful look from her gray-blue eyes, "Really just
lose all sense of the lawyers for the natural and human Right? "

"You will be right, Baroness," now hastened to reassure the public
prosecutor.

"I am convinced that if we succeed in understanding and should not work, the Providence bring even the
truth is. "

"And the needle," asked the baroness. "I collect these things, and the most beautiful piece on
I have inheritance rights, should remain in the hands of such a man? "

"But you make your great-grandmother, but do not hold us responsible,"
said Dr. = = Zeunemann laughing, as he got up and retrieved his hat.

You're a rock-hard, armored, impenetrable lawyer, "are pouted the baroness.

"But a softer, for the charms of beautiful women very susceptible person," said Dr. = = Zeunemann conciliatory
added.

When they all set off together, asked the baroness, to be published
with Peter Rabbit.

"You are no stranger to me," she said pleasantly to him, "I know your books and admire. It comforts
me through the horrible process, that I was such a valuable meeting owe. "

She asked him to visit her and her husband in the hotel if he still
stay here a while and when she saw her waiting car, she said goodbye
to the two other men, when she said, smiling: "I still get the needle,
which I foretold my feeling."

The men walked a few steps together.

"How charming and attractive," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "is but the utter lack of logic and objectivity
of women. At least for us men. "

"And its cruelty," continued Mr Hare added appreciatively.

"I consider it more of thoughtless," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "How old do you assess the way this
woman?

She has a grown daughter, since she must be already forty-two.

"

"More like older," said Peter Rabbit, she is very well maintained and grown very skilful. "

"Of course, certainly," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, no work, no worries, "which gets young."

Also, the Commerce Winkler employed Truschkowitz baroness, and he
sought an opportunity = Dr. = Bernburg some to question her.

She has charm, chic, grace, "he said to him, "but a lot of dangerous temperament."

"For that I am there to control this," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

"I've seen," said the Commerce, "that it avoids Deruga to see although they usually watching
sharp. It is made so that it does not come into their field of vision. before any relations between them
have taken place? "

"You know him not," said Dr. = = Bernburg, "but she has always hated him."

"So blind bias?" Said Mr. Winkler.

"Well," said Dr. = = Bernburg, "but does not make him better."

The councilor smiled. "How does this because her husband," he said.

"Oh, he gives her his arm, and is next to her," said Dr. = = Bernburg.
"By the way, he is a fine Man.

Even his stupidity has a certain something that one can not help decrease the hat from her.
"

his "stupid, with the woman," the councilor said, "Well, congratulations!"

'You can be fooled, "said the lawyer.

"Whether they respect him or principles has, I do not know. Perhaps it is a cold coquette.
"

The councilor shuddered. "That would be nothing for me," he said. "I think there would I still prefer to
be deceived. "

= V =

The President opened the meeting by saying that the next witness interrogations with the past life of
the deceased woman would deal Swieter, and that he hoped it would
fall from this page more light on the still not fully enlightened
operations.

It is up to now assumed that the defendant of the substance of the will not Was aware. The only
person who knew about it, the next friend of the Deceased, Miss Gwendolyn Schwertfeger. It is not
impossible that by the statement, namely, if they gave up the previously
observed restraint, the picture would change considerably.

It was apparent to everyone that it cost Miss Schwertfeger self-conquest,
the to enter room.

It was simple and not dressed in the fashion, unobtrusive appearance, only when told she looked
at in depth, uniqueness and charm. Both were found then plentiful in the almost too big, open, gray
eyes, in the short to nose, in the small, always slightly open mouth
and face in the game that the already irregular Face constantly moving.

Probably because she is a child's inability to adjust and a slope was herauszuplaudern thoughtlessly
aware, she steeled herself among strangers like with caution and discretion, which it combined
with the fear of the public, the expression of a small animal was in a cage that is used to
being teased and the need to defend.

After Dr. = = Zeunemann had taken their oath, he told them that the
Enlightenment Relevant to the case say it without reservation. admit
it people, he added that for truthful held but also a concealment
that allows for a lie, and even meritorious tend to consider.

"Are you one of those?" He asked.

She hesitated a moment and then said, by the large eyes firmly set it up: "Yes, I do."

Her small, processed and not well-formed hands twined it firmly.

"This indeed is a good chance," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "Did you, if I may ask, of the outset
the intention to allocate us the truth only in excerpts and adaptations? "

She shook her head and smiled a funny smile that instantly ran through her whole face. "No,
no," she said innocently, "I have no intention of the questions you sent to me are to answer
truthfully to the best of their knowledge and ability. It is not said yes, that the aforementioned
circumstances exist here. "

"Well that's good," said the chairman.

"To the serious consequences of perjury need I do not remember too well. I will only say that
we are always short-sighted people best to do absolutely any lie for lie, in the ugliest and
most vile sense, be regarded and to keep us in the truth. The consequences are in God's hands.
Those fallacies and sophistries, who want to make us appear to offer a lie can be dangerous wisps.
"

Miss Schwertfeger nodded seriously.

"Will you tell us and the first gentlemen of the jury in detail what you want from the Formation
of the will of the late Mrs. Swieter know! Since you are from early youth were friends with
each other, it will be before the touchdown of the will talk to you about it, maybe you have asked
your advice?

"

"Oh no, replied," Miss Schwertfeger quickly, "they would say always: 'What do you think, Gundel?
Should I do that, Gundel? " But that was only a form of courtesy or cordiality. In important things
they never claimed the Council and would have never accepted him. "

"For the Council so they did not ask?" Said Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"But the motives of their will will they still indicated? "

"Yes, she did," replied Miss Schwertfeger.

"The deceased was suffering cancer for eight years," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "Did you not earlier,
before they put on the will, given cause, through their wills Orders
to speak?

"

"With me, never," said Miss Schwertfeger. "And I do not at all.

The doctors examined they always mislead about the true nature of their suffering, and they
did it contrary, first because it was easy at all bleat to something, and then, because in this case,
the need had to be deceived. She wanted to live and hope. In addition, that after surgery always
felt perfectly healthy.

"

"How did it then," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "that they at last thought
of the will?"

"Well, that's clear," said Miss Schwertfeger, "because then it really was coming to an end and she
felt that. As it was a year before the terrible attack, after which it does not stood up, it
was very concerned, knowing that they are healthy, not again would. You did not say, but I often
felt that she was thinking. "

Asked to describe the process in detail, told Miss Schwertfeger:

One afternoon, I visited them as usual, she received me with the words, I came at the right moment.
You have just decided to make her will, and I must her for help. If she were healthy again, so it
do not matter, but it must but also take into account the possibility
that this time they would come out, and anyway It was lightly of her,
as old as she was to have not done so yet.

It would be be meaningless if the relatives would get their money almost entirely foreign to it
and also would be rich. I said, they would not die a long time.

I saw them before in the spirit me, fresh and strong and light-footed
as before.

Then she answered nothing, but in their Eyes I saw what she thought and she read probably
the same in mine. "

Was she excited? "Asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"No," said Miss Schwertfeger by a heroic effort at the the memory of the rising tears choked,
"not particularly, only in the initial shaking the voice a little. Then I said that I was not
happy with wills and stuff would have to do, especially when it came
on it.

But she had quite right. If you possess assets one must make a will,
and they would have been done long ago. What they had with her money
was intending to do if their relatives should not get? She was very
sure embarrassed and made a long preface, I would certainly be amazed
and laugh at them and she scold me until they finally said that they
wanted to use = Dr. = Deruga to their heirs. "

"Please, a moment,"
interrupted Dr. = = Zeunemann. "Your girlfriend was assumed that the
Decision would surprise you. Had she once expressed other ideas? If
you were had previously asked for the intentions of your friend, you
had no idea or opinion had? "

"Yes I would," said Miss Schwertfeger.
"I had always thought it would be a Foundation for poor children do,
in remembrance of her own dead child, and because they children ever
loved so much. She used to say, poorly nourished children would be
sad a blot of the Company. She went in it so far that they each child
she randomly heard screaming, stopped for a maltreated. I often said
to her, to comfort her: 'Do you think this is really a stubborn brat.
" But basically they did not believe me. We had also spoke of bodies
that could make for poor children. "

She remembered because they
do not mind, "asked Dr. = = Zeunemann," or did they not of even bother
to explain their change of mind? "

She said she had always suspected
case of foundations, the money would benefit not those for which one
would certainly have it. "

Miss Schwertfeger faltered after she had
explained this, and was evidently uncertain whether they should add
something or should proceed.

"And any way to avoid this danger, had
taken her friend never considered?" encouraged the chairman.

The
young lady caught after a short struggle evident courage and said:

She
had had the intention, give me their money, both for me my life could
set up more convenient - my friend turned the life of an art teacher
namely very difficult before - and then, because she knew I would
be in their favor in order for poor children . Act "

"Yes way! Said,"
Dr. = = Zeunemann you she wanted to bequeath their property. That's
But no small thing when you suddenly pivoted around in such a matter.
They must tell you but have explained and apologized? "

Miss Schwertfeger
made a proud defensive face. "That they had not," said them, "we were
friends. However, it weighed on her, and she wanted me widely That
address why she acted Sun They had heard that Dr. = = Deruga bad would,
and that he would be very run down, and you must remember at all times.
He was the father of her beloved child and if she loved him, and she
could still not weaned from the idea that what belongs to her, was
actually to be. In short, they would can not die in peace if they
knew him not protected its assets from distress. Of course, I did
finish it at all, but consoled her and assured her that the Money
would only put me at a loss because I would think that I had to spend
it somehow and did not know how, and my life that I otherwise would
like to set up, because I once so used would be and I felt comfortable
about it. The money would only remind me of her loss and I hate this.
"

"It's strange but," said the chairman, "that your friend will not
at least has exposed a legacy as her maid. "

"That she did at my
request," said Miss Schwertfeger short.

"I beg a moment for the floor,"
suddenly turned the prosecutor. "After the Representation of the witness
I got the impression when I notified of their interview, which followed
the drafting of the will, right after the last serious illness her
friend, so in March or April, take place. In contrast, the present
Testament of 19 September, so a fortnight before the death of them,
dated. "

Miss Schwertfeger said nothing, but took one long, hostile
view the questioner, as a non-legally call himself prying, and then
looked again the chairman to.

"Will you enlighten us about it, madam,"
asked this friendly. In an eloquent manner he is
pleading for a young attorney who is about to be punished for "Contempt of court."

"And so your Honor will realize that in the heat and excitement of a trial, in the turmoil
of the legal battle, in the intensity of a forensic struggle, the young man may well have forgotten
the respect and deference which is ever due from a member of the bar to the representative
of high-minded justice." Oh, by the Marmotte, which I once I had
called, was nothing there, and yet I was in the only moment in their Viewed from the years and
the disease destroyed face the same face that you as a child Been to his own might: of innocence,
love and kindness together magically. It was only as a mental phenomenon there, and I do not
know with what eyes I've seen it. The physical was an aging, dying woman, a plant similar to
those from the night frost surprising, as the mummy in the sunshine. It was nothing more to my poor
Marmotte, what the passion of any man could arouse, but it was so expensive, so precious and
sacred that I would not hesitate to give my life if I be happier that would be earned. Poor,
powerless creature, I thought, you will no longer be ! Suffer What does it cost me like how
hard the consequences might be for me, I will Bring peace. And if all your torment to me went
through, I would accept it and be glad that you could rest instead.

Previously I had thought I had it until certainty about the nature
and degree of disease gain, but the sight of me was unnecessary, as
it was advanced.

And I Ursula close the door behind you and go down the stairs, I heard got up, and at the same time
called me the Marmotte. I sat on the edge of her bed and said, how I would have been happy that
Ursula was still with her, and how I can hardly have , they laugh because they would not recognize
me. 'I would have recognized you right,' she said, and then we talked about the past and exchanged
small memories from. Also from their disease, their operations, and how she was treated, she
told me on my questioning. Her voice was unchanged, yet almost sweeter than before. She sounded
so as you probably heard of the evening in a remote mountain Alphorn, in which the pink and
green and gray colors seem mitzutönen the dusky horizon. As we talked, held it one of my hands
tightly between hers, and once she kissed her and said, 'Oh dear, good, fair hand, I have often
thought of you and that you would deliver me! "

It was about a half hour passed, I saw in her face that an attack of Pain was coming on, and I
thought now was the moment came

.
 Foreigners and idiots cannot serve. Doctors, soldiers, journalists,
clergymen, and others, besides those who are deaf, blind, or otherwise disabled, are exempted.
The experience of serving on a jury may be annoying but it is broadening and gives an opportunity
of seeing human nature in a way that few appreciate. He wanted to put at ease, and he found it nothing better
than to pull a cigarette from his pocket and ask, 'Have you Fire, your honor? " But as he
was in no mood to smoke, and excited to to act logically, he committed an indiscretion, and
just threw the lit cigarette in the bushes at the garden gate. "

The audience followed the story with a voltage as if the events mentioned for the first time
heard. The attention was divided between Dr. = = Bernburg and Deruga, is not thought of his
face as otherwise escape the eyes by making it in the Hand hid.

"My conviction that there must have been the Slovak Deruga," continued Dr. = = Bern Burger
continued, "Was so strong that I can say, I knew it. I followed all his steps from now the
moment when he dissolved the ticket at the station in Prague, as indeed was found. He wore
an ordinary suit, probably a frock coat, because if he in his coat Apartment would have left, it
would have been noticed and noted, the coat he had in the package with him. The question was,
where he had turned to dress. It happened in the railway train? Somewhere in the station areas?
Or about the night outdoors? He had to choose such a place where he clothe not only, but also
leave the ordinary suit, recover later and could exchange against the coat. The coat he had either
bundled with home taken or, more likely, on the road thrown away or hidden. Was the latter the
Case, he could have been displayed and sold to a junk dealer, and in spite of the weak Chance
of success, which could have directed it to inquire, I made the trouble to ask in a large series
of such transactions.

I did not receive any useful information and had been the hope in this Ways to find a track,
given up as an old woman reported to me, the chance had received in the shop of a junk-dealer
of my potential clients. This woman, a laundress, was on the morning of the 3rd passed in October
soon after five clock in the morning by the station premises and was down from the bridge
that crosses the channel, saw something dark in the water, she thought at first living thing.
When she looked closer, it was found that there a suit was in the way that workers wear it,
hang the set at the root of a tree had, and after she had wrung him, she took it as unclaimed property
with. "

These words came Dr. = = Bernburg to the table, put the package under his arm he was kept on
the table, wrapped it in and spread apart the suit, the the judge
and the lawyer, rising from their seats, bowed.

"The suit," continued Dr. = = Bernburg, "would only just have been a germ of. The proof that
he belonged to the accused, I produced a letter I in a buttoned-up
side pocket the coat was.

He is in spite of the sometimes blurred writing completely readable, and I have to ask for permission
to read it should. "

In the course of his report, the excitement had betrayed the narrator
more and more.

When Read the letter turned over his voice several times, and when
he at the close on the table, laid his hand trembled.

"Damn!"

This expression of surprise Judicial fine first broke the silence occurred.

= Dr. = Zeunemann had now taken the letter, held it before his eyes,
examined carefully written, the postal stamp and the paper and asked,
"How does he like for transport have been?

"

"It is we can probably give Miss Schwertfeger information," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

After a break, the new chairman Deruga turned slowly to the question of whether he to comment
on the communication of the Dr. = = Bernburg have.

Deruga shook his head silently, without looking up.

"We want to hear a confirmation from you," began Dr. = = Zeunemann again, "that the presentation of
Dr. = = Bernburg is relevant, or a correction.

"

Before he had finished the sentence, however, interrupted the prosecutor, with his long Arms
gesticulating and pointing Deruga. "Can not you see, my dear colleague," he said, "That the
man is sick? Let him rest but now that so must the strongest Stomach
attack!

A glass of water! Quickly, "he beckoned to the nearest usher him with threatening looks hurry up.

Justice
had been fine Derugas put his arm around his shoulder and persuaded him. Then he turned to the
court and said, "My client does not feel well and asks for permission
to withdraw.

He will tomorrow all desirable statements . Give '

The two left the hall together, and when they were outside, "said
the counselor:" Listen You, Doctor, I feel for the first time in my
life like a common guy before.

"

"Since you were happy," replied Deruga with his winning smile.

"At your age could it easy to be the tenth or hundredth time. Incidentally, you were quite
right, the people are stupid, weak animals.

Why would you believe me do? "

The counselor shook her head. "An old practitioner like me," he said, to distinguish "would can.
But that I might like you are suffering from the beginning, Deruga, hopefully you have the
noticed. "

Yes, even though you did me the way for a scoundrel, "said Deruga.

The counselor looked at him with loving eyes.

"You look bad. We drink a bottle of wine together! "

Deruga apologized with a severe headache.

"I do not know what made me so upset," he said. "I think it was the feeling like this gentleman
has crept after me step by step.

"

"Actually," said the counselor, recollecting himself, "I've done the bastard wrong. He has behaved like
a decent human being. "

"Too bad, no?" Said Deruga, after which they separated.

In the courthouse were the lawyers involved in the process along even more, um = Dr. = Bernburg
gathered, they questioned for various details. The prosecutor shook for the third time both hands,
and praised his diligence. His thin hair was disheveled, and his
bright eyes gleamed under the humid fuchsschwänzigen eyebrows.

"I am considered for sharp," he said, "and I am also and will remain so. But the Italians against
you may like to be human once. The man is through and through, but are not common, I like that
about him. "

"They are thoroughly prosecutor, but are not common," said Dr. = =
Zeunemann.

"This is perhaps even more difficult.

"

"What is rare beauty in costume or beauty in naked body?" Said the prosecutor thoughtfully. "Well,
I will in any case the costume does not completely disrupted, but
legal and human be, as I ignore all of the Bernburg = = Dr. alleged
facts, and as if nothing had happened, the prosecution was maintaining
on manslaughter.

"

"Excellent, excellent," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

"Otherwise I would have him at the end of a bad Service provided. "

"On the Art Fein's plan would go through," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "I find it somewhat arbitrarily
But in the circumstances. "

"Why, my dear?" Said the prosecutor vividly. "As for the state of affairs about? However, we
now know that the good woman Swieter to shorten their suffering by death wished that she asked her
ex-husband to make her this service, and that Deruga then killed them. But do we know whether
he has really done out of compassion? Whether he not selfish ulterior motives had? Do we know
whether he longed for her death long ago? If he exulted over the letter, which offered him the
desired handle? Would like not occurred for the first time. Recall only the speed with which He
took over the tricky job!

The poison he had apparently already waiting. "

"Stop," interrupted Dr. = = Zeunemann laughing. "If this continues, please collect the charge
of murder. "

"Legally, it would be perhaps more correctly," said the prosecutor thoughtfully, "but I have
decided to judge human, and besides, I would run, I think, risk of are torn apart the Maenads
when I attack their favorite.

"

"Otherwise, they will rip you out of gratitude," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "A victim of women to be,
is now once your lot! "

XVII = .=

Afternoon, was announced at the Baroness Deruga.

He rose from the uncomfortable sofa, on which he had been lying and sleeping, and blinked sullenly
against the light.

"Dear Doctor, "she said, adding she held out her hand," I come, give
me your pardon to fetch.

God forgives the repentant sinner himself. You will not be relentless. "

"I'm not in mass, with God to be comparable," said Deruga, "but there
is nothing fact, since I've forgive you anything.

They pursued so not me, but were for the supposed right one. "

"You a reconciliation of soft," said the baroness. "I understand you well, but I leave me away so
easily.

From a man who can love like you, you tolerate well even hatred and worse. What woman would not
go all that she has, at once so to be loved, as you have loved!

    "
    
    "Truly," cried Deruga, "you
    want, believe I have to say something."

"That sounds wicked," said the baroness, "and yet it hurts me, because I feel that They mean no
harm. It is true, I do not know how I do without money, and even
without a great much money should be able to live.

My God, everyone has their habits. But'm greedy I do not at the money in and of itself I do
not care.

And you know why I'm out to me was that the inheritance escaped me? I was very eager to have
the money that I deny not, and you just want to tell me why. I was incredibly in my marriage
bored. "

Yes, boredom is a big problem and the greatest threat to life, "said Deruga. "But your husband seems
to be a dear, fine person."

"Of course," agreed with the baroness, "one can imagine nothing more
pleasant.

He is like clean air, we feel it does not, and I was also an almost to love him a little, when
I married him. But I was bored in his company so that I was probably would have been untrue when
the contract with my principles would. However, since this is the only principle to which I profess,
I have it noted. "

had "yet to a daughter," protested Deruga.

"They probably found it with us just as boring as I do," said the baroness, "because since they
was grown and I had a partner can be, she seized every opportunity to be away from home. Meanwhile,
I shortened my time with plans for the future: the one freeing me from my husband, my daughter
once supplied, that is, would be married. "

Derugas faces are painted in genuine astonishment.

"You think really wants to get a divorce now," he said.

A charming smile that made her young slid across the face of the baroness.

"At my age, you mean? As long as I wish, I'm obviously young enough to, "she said.

"And then you want to marry a man more amusing," asked Deruga.

"O marry," she repeated. "This is what matters to me, not even on formal divorce only to be
free and to leave the atmosphere of boredom. "

Deruga shrugged his shoulders. "Basically, there is all over the world the same climate," he
said.

"No, no, said she vividly," I think I can not, for example, how in
your society should ever be bored!

"She had such a free way of doing things like a naive child of telling
that even Deruga, who considered himself a connoisseur of women do
not differ, was whether the flower was real or artificial.

"This does have a downside," he replied good-naturedly. "Do not you remember the verse, I wrote
the poor Marmotte in a book:

'Deruga, you're just As nice as strange; It can not be without you And also do not live with you. '"

The
Baroness blushed a little, but could not say with tolerable impartiality: "Well, the daily self-to-side-rubbing,
the marriage brings with it, and I would certainly probably not take back at me, and I also
think it is destructive and mean. But now, " she added, getting up, "give me a farewell handshake,
a reconciliation!"

"Gladly, Baroness," he said, as he gave her his hand. "Your punishment you anyway, by the money
has escaped you.

"

Yes, the money, "she said wistfully," should I open the cage. We were like this before come off:
Only the fact that I did not own property and did not know what I am should live, if I left
my husband standing in front of the fulfillment of my desire. The
legacy should my poor sick cousin give me new life!

But enough about me! Allow Me to you this room, for the time when you live there are to cheer up
a little? With flowers? "

"If you pleasure," he said.

As they stood hesitating in the doorway, her eyes rested on his well-formed brown Hand she was
still holding, and then they went with a smile.

She felt, as the somewhat remote, dark road was as if they had never, never in her life, in such
a lifetime of glowing excitement found.

It was a sparkling, both frightening and soothing sensation, in which, it seemed to her, all
her strength increased and refined. Of course, even a little more it might be uncomfortable,
so, now with a slight feeling of fear ran under the However, the delight of the general turmoil
still drowned.

The Baroness decided to take a walk. It was not late, the lights on the streets and were in the
shop windows blazed like fire ignited gradually and yellow Dab in the confusion of dämmerblassen
colors. Slowly, a smile, she walked aimlessly further.

How lovely it was to feel so young and like a girl in love forbidden Way to go! Yes, it was almost
as if they were going to a rendezvous.

As they passed a flower shop passed, which had the appearance of a pompous, jungle, it occurred
to her, something for Derugas Choose room. She chose a long time and hardly asked for the prices
that they would otherwise, especially when it comes to gifts acted, not at all ignored left.
Randomly saw them in a mirror, her figure: slim, perfect, full of natural elegance. Happy Feeling
of happiness and pride shot through her. Was it also not fresh, sparkling in the morning dew
Flower, replaced the missing enamel and the splendor of the colors
become visible form and a perfume that first developed the twilight.

She felt that they attract even more, yet could charm, and they would not even be able to love
to do? She had never loved before.

She was struggling with whether she should go to the meeting the following morning, for it was
her as it might displease Deruga, and as ever would be somewhat tasteless and Anti-sense mentioned
if they are now pointed to the spot, they past out of curiosity and impatient Desire had taken
to see their cause triumph. But it was impossible for her to to resist impulse that drove them
in Derugas near, if only to satisfy themselves about his condition
to give.

"If one has been wrong," she said at breakfast with her husband and their daughter, "we must
you make it up again because in that it admits.

I would not travel to Paris before I know what will become of Deruga, and what can we do about
him. "
The Baron had the same opinion, and Mingo blushed with pleasure.

"Dear
Mama," she said, "I'm glad you're still a good person."

"But Mingo,"
said the baroness reference by itself but was not included to laugh.

"May
I go along, Mom? Asked she, who had jumped up and was hugging her
mother. "You know, as I have suffered, now I want to be there after
it is so beautiful has turned. He is acquitted but sure? "

"By this
is no doubt well," said the Baron, however, the Baroness from Mingo's
embrace free and made an embarrassing feeling of jealousy that rose
suddenly in her to suppress was looking for. Her gaze slid quickly
checking out of Mingo, whose life as she suddenly narrowing and inhibition
felt. But she wanted to study, she said, and that was a good, real
feel of it, that they are still working on and wanted to develop.
The contact the fresh lips but was unspeakably lovely. The baroness
laid her hand affectionately on the child still round face of her
daughter and said:

"I'll tell Deruga occasionally, from the beginning
that you are brave, little knight were are. "

Mingo glowed with pride.
"And I put my sword will not work until it is free," she said.

XVIII
= .=

The impatience of the strained to the statement Derugas audience
was not satisfied immediately, was heard as the first witness Miss
Gundel Schwertfeger. The chairman put his the letter from the late
wife of Swieter Deruga before and asked if he had known her.

"Yes,"
said Miss Schwertfeger, barely a glimpse of it throwing, "it is the
same I have been a few days before death Mingos to the post. "

=
Dr. = Zeunemann coughed a little and saw before him on the table.
"They have the in the beginning of the process concealed, "he said.

"No,
I lied," said Miss Schwertfeger with defiant courage, while their
large gray eyes darkened. "It was the first time in my life, and I
had do it because otherwise I would have broken my late friend's word.
This I could my mind not just because they are dead. "

"Would you
like us now, perhaps," said Dr. = = Zeunemann gently tell "short,
which is due the letter between you went? "

"My friend asked me if
I do something for the sake of their wool. I said I would do anything
, What stands in my power, which would unfortunately low. She kissed
me and said that it would be not much in itself, but for me it meant
a lot, perhaps, I should namely a letter Deruga to get without it
now or later someone mightest know. I promised to do what they wished,
and asked if they could tell me what they were writing it, and why
no one should learn. She said they have a need for him in the event
that they not be long should live to say goodbye, and that she would
keep the secret, sprang from only the perhaps foolish fear, they would
not understand and find ridiculous. "

"Have you then," asked the
chairman, "do not worry made whether it is really WHICH IS WHAT? "

"Back
then I thought," said Miss Schwertfeger, "they told him maybe written,
they wish to see him again before she died and have spared himself
to tell me that. As was then brought charges against Deruga, I realized
how dangerous the letter for it could be either because they had asked
him to come, or that she did from the content of the will had been
informed, and I made up my mind to lie better than him in the to bring
bad luck because I knew what would have caused the pain my friend.
"

"Is perhaps associated with it," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "that
the legacy of your Girlfriend turned down and later bequeathed to
you even gave away valuables? "

Miss Schwertfeger was dark red.

"It
seemed to me but now look like that," she said, "when my girlfriend
wants me to my silence reward. Later completely when the suspicion
arose Deruga I told myself I would have occurred as a bribe and how
accomplice in the heinous deed, if I do the least of the treasures
of my girlfriend would have. "

"You may, therefore, never," said
the chairman, "the possibility of the relationship emerged as it has
now presented? Your friend did you said yourself once, as They sometimes
mentioned that they would be grateful to that, of their suffering
to an end prepared by killing her? "

"I thought it was only for a
momentary impulse," said Miss Schwertfeger. "Only now I realized how
much my girlfriend dominated in general, when I'm at it was. In addition,
I Deruga no good, but probably bad credit for. Occasionally the public awakes to a realization of their power over both courts and
lawyers, that they are their creatures; then happens a revolution in procedure and something
is accomplished.

The lawyer waits about the courthouse for his case to be reached. It may take days or even
weeks before it is marked ready. He wastes his time. The witnesses have been subpoenaed. They
have to be told to come again the next day. There is little money in it for the lawyer. Office
practice pays better than court work and except for the eminent pleaders there is but small honor.

During the trial the lawyer seems to be sparring. He takes the attitude of saying: "I want
that point of law decided; it is such a nice point, it ought to be settled." As a matter of
fact he only wants it settled in his own favor. It is not the abstract interest but the concrete
fact in which he is interested.

The lawyer is vigilant from the beginning of the trial to the end. After the case is marked
ready he watches the jury, the other side, and the judge; any movement may be of importance;
if it escapes his notice he may lose his whole case. It is not safe for him to go on the assumption
that the other side is as honest as he is. Incidentally, I actually took me along to your father's sake, but it was an outcome of
my nature. Great excitement and upheaval me were not, and what I once elected, wanted to carry
me. I think this is a requirement of good Taste. "

"Yes, mamma," said Mingo, by focusing on the well-maintained, with many precious rings too loaded
Her mother's hand pressed a kiss, "and Dad and I have reason to be grateful to you. Just for
you, it almost makes me sad. "

'Do' you not think about, my little one, "said the baroness. "What one is not present, that would
not make one happy.

I have a different way to my happiness made up.

"

"What do you mean, Mom?"

Mingo asked in alarm.

The Baroness blushed, without the red reflection of the fire-would have become visible. "I'll
tell you another time, darling," she said.

"I just heard a car drive up. This will be your father. "

"Mama," Mingo said quickly.

"You promised me yet, that you withdraw from the process want. Without me, nothing, nothing to make
them happy. I will willingly do without the study and always, as long as I live, stay with
you so that you do not get bored if you give me only the sake of
doing.

"

"Do not get Rege, Mingo," said the baroness, defensively, "you know that I do not love you. Nothing
in the world is worth that one gets upset about it. I told you that I will discuss with the lawyer!
"

"Oh, your lawyer," said Mingo, "who has so hineingehetzt up straight. He is a loathsome Man!
He has something crawling, slimy, sucking as if he were born to be
a spy.

I do not understand that you may associate with such a man. "

"That's no traffic," said the baroness.

"I am using his gifts to him make suitable for this work. If he were a gentleman, he would
give me less likely can benefit.

It may be that he exploits me too, but he could not even if He did not mean that I am right,
and that my business can succeed. You act as handle it is a private matter, but it is a crime
to which the public Interested. "

"Thou shalt have no hand in it," urged Mingo. "You yourself have admitted to me that you by your
belief in his guilt have become crazy. "

"My conviction is not relevant," said the baroness.

"The jurors are there To find the law. It is simply the law. I want to force anything for me not
what the law is in accordance. "

"Oh Mama, Mama," said Mingo.

"The bill is on you as if you wanted to you the power , You force the now was not even intended.
"

The baroness was clearly violated. "A child who grew up in abundance usually do not think of
where it flows, "she said.

"You have it easy to appreciate the money low. Do I have a right to it, it would be ridiculous of me to pass
up.

If I Right to have, that is, whether it has and I do not Deruga my claims with some hope of
success will be able to claim that the result is this process. Then it is still Time to consider
whether I should try it with an action against the assets.

"

"Meanwhile, you could tell your lawyer but that he gives up his research," Mingo asked.

"I'll talk to him," said the baroness, evasive, hear "and his views. Does he now Deruga innocent,
I am the first to be happy about it.

Personal Wishes in these matters are neither you nor me. "

= XI .=

A day after the departure Gabussis visited the counselor to his clients,
who alone in the cold Sitting room.

He had opened the window because of the small iron stove heated too much, and had forgotten
to close it again after it had long since become cold.

Sometimes the wind drove into a downpour without the lonely, the sullen right staring, it said.

"Your
friend is so gone," said the counselor. "It is a pity, because you are very depressed be! "

"I'm glad he's gone," said Deruga.

»Gabussi me is the dearest person in Soils, but there are times when he is in my way. He may be
sober life, but I must get drunk sometimes. "

"So," said the counselor, who had since closed the window and sat down, "and Now is the time for
your Saturnalia? Suitable elected. "

Deruga shrugged his shoulders. "I address myself to the calendar, the system in any with his body.
"

"As you do," said the counselor. "I brought here is something quite different. Do you know Valeska
Durich woman from Prague? "

"Yes," said the latter, "a composite of stupidity and love nature. Formula D = {2} = V. "

"You have to know," said the counselor, "because it just seems to be in love with you."

"I really can not help it," said Deruga. "If you half an hour with her and they were probably
a bit rough treatment, they would fall in love in you.

"

"Well, we'll see," said the counselor. "She wants to come that is."

Deruga laughed and was angry then. What a stupid person would? The counselor you should write
that he Deruga was in custody and have nothing to do with it could and would.

"That would probably be too late," said the counselor.

"You will certainly attest that you are from the evening the 1 October to the afternoon of the third
were with her. As would we have an alibi. "

"Seriously?" Said Deruga attentively. "That's the stupid person want?
Well, that's really very pleasant.

Surpassing even the node could not be resolved. "

"I will not say just because," the counselor said thoughtfully.

"It's not a Unusual for one takes a false oath to himself. "

"That's their business," said Deruga violently. "God, this petty verbiage! There are lies, to have
a decent source than some truth. In general that's their thing. I had to endure so many annoyances
of it, why should not I take the advantage? "

"Of course," said the counselor, "if it can be done without serious
damage on their part."

"It is strange that you have suddenly become so serious," said Deruga sharp. "Through You I
came into this situation. Had I followed my impulse, it would be nearly as or so as to end.
Now find a way, I create the process on your behalf from the neck, make moral equivocation. "He
was blushing with excitement, throwing a furious View of the Judicial
Council, which looked at him thoughtfully.

"I had but only provide clarity," the latter said, "and know how to the new Application are. Finally,
if you agree! Did you really do with the lady? "

"I with her?"

Said Deruga. "They had something with me. They tormented me with their love. Incidentally, you are
mistaken if you regard them as opfermütige heroine.

She is too stupid to to overlook the consequences of their actions, and so in love that you use
any means is right, to win me. "

"What they are however charged?" Added the Judicial Council.

"Of course," said Deruga sharply, "They thought I should get married
out of gratitude?"

"Oh no," replied the counselor, "You're now much higher up."

"Now?" Repeated Deruga starting up, "what do you mean? What you allow
yourself?

My You, you can treat me as a silly boy because I am indicted and
outlawed?

I consider myself to be too good, I throw away on such a stupid and uneducated person. The
women are disgusting to me at all. "

"With exceptions," said the counselor cool.

That's right, "went away Deruga in heated tones.

"For example, with the exception of Baroness Truschkowitz. She is greedy, vain, selfish, but
this smart, elegant and utterly immoral. Must be women, so you can
have a good time with them.

"

"Matter of taste," said the counselor. "A perjury in any case they would not swear to you."

"No, it is neither simple nor like a dog," said Deruga, "and I do not like the dogs. What do
you care to Valerie?

Let them go use, as they will! Do you have for me to care. "

"I do," said the counselor, "and I just doubt whether it was honorable of you if they accepted
such a sacrifice. "

Deruga laughed scornfully. "One of these pompous words," he said, "that in your society are common.
Honor, morality, Ideal, God, immortality, all painted columns on canvas sack. Man you do not
need thirty pieces of silver to offer to betray their God.

By the way, who Who said that the Valeska swears a false oath? How do you know that I am not from
1 to 3. October was with her? "

The counselor got up to go. "That's enough for today," he said, "but I suppose not your last word. "

"And
I ask you," said Deruga, "do not catch it again when you want it We remain good friends! Neither
you nor I Valeska's guardian. Do your best to adapt to get used to the fact that she was reckless
enough to me from 1 to 3 October last Year to host with them. "

XII = .=

The Baroness Peter Rabbit had invited for lunch, so he get to know
her daughter.

The dinner was held in a small, cozy living room of her hotel, whose white, black and gold walls
were mottled with flower bushes of extravagant splendor.

The baroness told her guest with a smile, that he not known her daughter in every way was.

"My daughter," she said, "from her father a certain indifference to the literature inherited, perhaps
I should say the same thing, a certain lack of imagination. "

"I would call good taste," said Peter Rabbit not, "for youth and books
belong to together.

Equally, Mr Baron perhaps the view of the ancients, which the poet
despised as a liar.

"

"I'm well read enough to judge can," said the Baron, "but this much is true that I like to read
newspapers because they report truth. "

"Oh, Papa, newspapers, laughed Mingo," who are supposed to just mostly lying. "

"The newspapers are perhaps the most interesting modern epic," said
Peter Rabbit, "and in any event Life is the most beautiful poetry.

"

The baroness shook her head doubtfully.

"I think," she said, "even in regard to life are the great talents among men rarely. Few live
a big, beautiful curved Life. For most it is incoherent, out of petty,
everyday, and very boring.

"

"For casual reader," said Peter Rabbit, you've got to delve into it. "

"Oh, it does not pay," said the baroness, "and where it was worth perhaps disgusted, there is a.
The Experience you have made perhaps with the mysterious lady, our
process suddenly given a new twist seems.

"

"The lady turned, however, initially more commonplace than is mysterious," said Peter Hase. "A vegetative
beings, good, weak, sluggish, but with a system for heroism as primitive women, they sometimes
have. "

Mingo, who had been sitting up there with almost rude indifference, looked deep blushing, and said
quickly: "Who is the lady why she was there"

"There is a lady, who testified that Mr. Deruga at during the fateful
days of October had been her, that is the fact that he was suspected,
could not have committed, "said Peter Rabbit.

He spoke with caution, since it is not the subject matter for social
entertainment suitable, but especially for a young lady did not fit.

"Look, Mom," Mingo said triumphantly. "But who is the lady that he was so long with her was? Is he friends
with her?

"

"Well, unmarried men have just relations with certain women, women
of the lower classes," said the baroness.

"It replaced them on family life. And they prefer uneducated, undemanding women because they
can face them to leave. to let go, men is an essential need. "

"I like to call it a protector of nature," said Peter Rabbit, "the just the Human culture as
a relaxation of its tension forces is always necessary.

But it is a tragic chain that just civilized man forgotten how more and more go to to leave
until the suppressed shoots at last make the air madness. "

In Mingo's face was read that she understood this investigation nor interest in it had. "How was
the woman," she asked, turning towards earnestly to Peter Rabbit. Was she completely uneducated?
Was she a poor woman? "

"No, not yet," said Peter Rabbit seriously and carefully. "She is the daughter of a janitor at
a high school boy, and it seems that they thus exposed to early influences
of concern was.

Apparently she is looking in a touching way to what she considers to education, to hold; she
said, whenever possible, the love of nature, to all good, beauty and truth, as the saying goes, and she
spoke deliberately by the friendship they with Deruga associations.

The word love, or love affair, they did not apply to you. I had the impression that they felt
the need, their lives a background of beauty and uniqueness to To give so far as it understand
it. "

The baroness shrugged her shoulders impatiently, and the Baron sought
the conversation in another to guide rail, saying that similar features
would find themselves much in the frivolous women Most of the people,
and told all sorts from Japan, China, India and other countries he
had traveled.

He had traveled widely in his youth, he said, but finally did He found that could live in
Paris the best.

"Oh, yes, Paris is always more or less given," said the baroness with a suppressed Sigh and a wry
expression that she dressed very nice.

He also love Paris, "said Peter Rabbit, and was on the verge of a several-week stay to go there, as
Derugas process would have kept him.

"This man seems to have a tremendous appeal," said the baroness.

Peter Rabbit tossed over a discreet glance at Mingo, to see how the discussed she touched. Her
large eyes were fixed with tension and interest in his face. "We meet so rare, "he said," within
the culture a very natural man, as is Deruga; a child of the Constitution and in the proportions
of a man. "

"You might want to use it in a novel," scoffed the baroness.

"Hardly," said Peter Rabbit seriously. "He's probably incoherent for the construction of the seal,
where everything must end, and never allowed a gap gape.

"

»Condemns innocent," continued the baroness. "That would be a title that would draw."

"It will pass over it," said Peter Rabbit, quietly noting. "The thing
is somehow come to nothing.

I agree with Derugas character that he colorful experiences, but no have a great, tragic,
shocking is. "

"Are you listening, Mom?" Said Mingo. "Even Mr. Hare is convinced of his innocence. Everyone
is it. It's you yourself guilty of nothing more to act against him. "

"I told you," interrupted the baroness, "that I will talk to the lawyer. His Is not really my thing.
In fact, I regret now that I was so weak I get caught up by him in this matter. I did not get
the idea that he in first place was because, to get acquainted with
a sensational trial.

He reflected me that I was appointed to consider a crime to light,
and was using me as a means to be famous.

"

The baroness had hardly finished when the waiter = Dr. = Bernburg filed, they had asked for
a meeting at the hotel.

"It's awkward," said the baroness reluctantly, and Peter Rabbit got
up, not to interfere.

No, she said he could go by any means, they had not even the Coffee
made.

Basically, it was nice to her when they result in not only the entertainment need it is anyway
Professional contrary, but hated the matter completely.

Now the incoming attorney greeted her with a haughty head own, which they subsequently a more
polite phrase was when she noticed that he saw through her and smiled. She explained that those
present were informed of everything, and that their presence does
not interrupting, and then said with a cold glance:

"The thing is
developing differently, doctor, when you initially persuaded me."

"I appreciate the independent character of the baroness is too high," said Dr. = = Bernburg, »Dare
as I would like to convince you something."

"Well," said the baroness reluctantly, "you me the events marked in any case so compelling like ...
"

"How could you wish for," interrupted Dr. = = Bernburg a smile. "I'm from the probability of operations,
as I represented it at the time, continue to be as confident as ever. "

"And the new witness," asked the baroness.
"A loving person," said Dr. = = Bernburg dismissively, "which is
a merit of their want to buy beloved. It is not really important and
was not even sworn in, because the Court because of her relationship
with the accused from the outset not to be credible held. By the way,
would probably leave muster witnesses to the truth of their testimony
. Demonstrate '

"No, Mama said," Mingo, jumping lights in indignation,
"that thou shalt do nothing have. This is unworthy of spying, and
pace. I do not suffer, that you hergibst up to it. "

= Dr. = Bernburg
looked at the young girl smiling through his glasses. "Ginge the criminal
not dark roads, "he said," you do not need him nachzuschleichen on
dark roads. The Method of the criminal determines the method of him
who is to expose him. If a thief with your stock is running out, and
you want him to have again, you have to jump in after him, or another
jump for themselves. "

"I ask of anyone what I'm even too well,"
Mingo said hostile. "By the way No one has taken us our stock market.
"

"Do not meddle in things that child," said the baroness, referring,
"you know too little judge them to be able to. I have, however, but
the feeling, "she turned to Dr. = = Bernburg, "That we play a happy
role in this matter."

"It comes down to the final success," said
Dr. = = Bernburg, "and as I have already said, my conviction has been
strengthened only. Makes me feel as if I had the operation experienced
with. I could show him in a drama. "

"And why do you not?" Cried
the baroness from irritated. "I think the mood turns generally the
defendants. "

"Herr Dr. = = Deruga has evidently much luck with women,"
said Dr. = = Bernburg, "in their eyes a man ever to win by the suspicion
of a crime usually. Furthermore, Many people make the mistake of believing
that a criminal must by nature with a special stamp to be drawn. Should
look rough, brutal, nasty, distorted. Considering not that the cause
of most crimes is the weakness of the offender, by a drive not enough
to counter resistance could, and what a huge role chance plays in
this. It is not without reason, believed that in earlier times, many
criminal himself, the devil had them blown. "

The Baron said that
such ideas would be dangerous by a nearly robbed the courage pursue
the criminals and punish them.

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders.
"If you listen to it," he said, "so it would only drive to evil or
forbidden, and all inhibitions fell away. It is probably the best,
Schlechtweg that each does what he requires his office without scruples
about the consequences and to make the innermost reasons. Judicial
fine brings constantly faced with new defense witnesses; Now he has
again played a professor who for a time with his wife and Deruga inhabited
the same house, and, it seems, is to confirm what we have long known
that Deruga is a so-called good guy, which one though haste, but not
deliberate wickedness credit for. I would not do my duty if I am not
trying to produce evidence for our Conviction raise, and I still hope
that I will succeed, anything conclusive to find. I have been following
a trail from the I would like to mention, however, to perfect myself
Clarity won. "

Mingo looked at Dr. = = Bernburg with undisguised
disgust. "That does not happen but you, Mama, "she said in a commanding
tone of supplication," not in your behalf. "

"Please mix, do not
see," said the baroness, irritated, "leave us better, if you can not
dominate! Neither you nor I have a personal interest in the matter,
but only an objective. We can only pleasant when the truth is found.
"

"Yes, I have a personal interest," said Mingo from passionate.
"I know that he is innocent. Despite all evidence to be about spies,
he is innocent and better than we all trembled. "Her voice, her tears
were near.

The Baron and Peter Rabbit were all up at once, such as
to protect the little one. The Baron stood next to her and suggested
a walk: we must in the ever- still short days the brightness use.
= Dr. = Bernburg felt disgraced and be dismissed laden with contempt.
The bitterness that boiled inside him, condensed more and more of
a vengeful hatred Deruga while the Baroness, compared to only had
the fervent desire to prove to her that he had been right.

XIII =
.=

"We were Deruga is famous for having" told Professor Vondermühl,
"that we in the same Dwelt. Shortly after they had moved in, my wife
got in the night a Stomach cramps, and around her as soon as possible
to provide help, I went up and asked Deruga to come. He was most amiable
readiness, and his wife offered their assistance at. From the time
we were often wrong, and have maintained a friendship until Derugas
lost her child and got divorced soon afterwards. "

"Have you ever
noticed some of disagreements between the spouses," asked the chairman.

"My
wife had the impression," said the professor, "that she had loved,
but not fits together. Despite its compatibility Deruga had an unsettled,
unpredictable Temperament and would have needed tighter line, and
his wife could not exert such, but was affectionate, cuddly, like
a plant that would have in the shelter of a wall to grow. The difference
was probably after the death of the child that a bond between they
formed, revealed sharper. "

"Were there times between them to violent
outbursts," asked the chairman. 

"One evening," and told the professor,
"my wife and I were sitting after dinner on our small balcony that
went from the living room to the garden. In Derugas living room, on
the ours had to lay open to the door, because we could hear their
voices, and as you Conversation degenerated gradually into a verbal
exchange. We laughed about it, and my wife said: 'The terrible human
being, his devil is loose again' - which was an expression of her
to some Moods, which Deruga was subject to call. She suggested that
we wanted to go, to interrupt the presentation of the woman's sake.
But I was against it, because I interference at such a moment seemed
intrusive, perhaps out of convenience or otherwise of a selfish impulse.
We were still in the discussion about women as we Deruga a suppressed
cry heard utter a cry of horror, of pain, of fear, as it seemed. Since
my wife jumped up and ran, without waiting for my approval, up to
the upper floor, so I struggled to keep pace with it.

The greatest farce that occurs in the court-room is the part of preparation that is involved
in getting a case on for trial. There being no limit to the time to examine witnesses, to hear
arguments, to listen to objections, it is said to be impossible to tell how long a case is
going to take. Consequently the calendar having been called, the cases following are answered
ready, by office-boys with no expectation of their being immediately reached.

The grave and reverend judge looks over his desk and calls the case of Bowring vs. Bowring.
"Ready for the plaintiff," answers a rosy-cheeked boy. "Ready for the defendant," answers another.
They look rather young to be trying a case. It is marked ready and the office-boys sit about
the court and telephone to the lawyers when they think there is a chance of being nearly reached.
This often takes several days. In the meanwhile the cases ahead of the Bowring case have been
dragging out their slow and weary performance on the court stage. Matters of fact that should
have taken five minutes to bring out by the present usual laborious system of proof, have taken
two hours. Argument of counsel on abstruse questions of law have worn and confused the jury
and the clients, who have become exhausted and impatient.

The clients and witnesses may have been sitting, trying to understand and becoming more and
more mystified.

The dealings of open-handed Justice ought to be plain, prompt, and understandable; instead
to the spectator she seems a mysterious jade with no understanding of everyday life. She keeps
them waiting there without reason. If the case is marked ready it ought to be ready. The business
man feels that Justice is extremely tardy in keeping her appointments.

His natural reverence for abstract Justice prevents him formulating these thoughts, but he
continues to wonder. 

"I agree with you in mind, Mr. Deruga," said Dr. = = Zeunemann warned, "that your chivalry is on very
shaky ground. Should allow a lady that a friend on her account goes into such danger? As one would
much rather assume that this lady does not exist. The whole story you say, lacks the probability.
That you are a lady visited and spent days and nights with her, would in itself not in your
life unbelievable. Also, this may go, that you had the desire not to compromise them, but the
means by which you want to have selected for this purpose, one can only be inappropriate and
call ridiculous. Someone who is in such poor financial situation as They are not of thirty-two
dollars for a ticket that he does not need. "

"Thirty-one Mark seventy-five penny," improved Deruga.

"The map of Prague to Munich costs thirty-two Mark," said Dr. = =
Zeunemann sharp.

"The other way is twenty-five pfennigs cheaper," insisted Deruga.

"Let the word controversy," Dr. = = Zeunemann said.

"It also raises thirty-one Mark and seventy-five pennies not continue when you are in money
embarrassments. "

"An intelligent German probably not," replied Deruga, "but I'm more stupid made in my life than
this. Incidentally, I was not in financial difficulties, I had only Debt. "

The prosecutor wrung her hands and turned their eyes upward, as if the sky to wanted to call witnesses
of such savagery.

Then he asked for the floor and asked how it happens that the defendant would have had enough money
for such an unexpected journey with you.

Instead of answering Deruga reached into his pocket, pulled out a
handful of money and had: "Sixty, sixty-three, seventy, seventy-four
Mark.

You see, I could on the spot traveling to Prague, if I do not prefer to stay in your comfortable
home town. "

"Why not pay your debt if you had money?"

Said the prosecutor, whose Voice when he is upset, a shrill tone adopted.

"Oh, this is not enough by far," laughed Deruga. "I had only so much to my daily to meet needs.
"

The Chairman declared the interim issues by a wave of the hand over. "You stay thus to be accused,
he asked, "that you broke a sham a ticket to Munich.

What brought you straight to Munich? "

"This is a difficult question," said Deruga.

"If I had a ticket to Frankfurt or Vienna taken, you might as well make it. Perhaps a psychoanalyst
and present could give us interesting clues about the association
of ideas, and whether emotional was or not.

My specialty is nose, neck and throat diseases. "

"What did you do after you have solved the card?" Inquired the chairman.

"I stood on the barrier," and told Deruga, "went when it was opened to the Train increased,
but not, but went back through a previously dissolved Perron card. Then I have often looked
to the lady referred to, where I until the afternoon of the 3rd October remained. "

"The improbabilities pile up," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "What doctor is no implied Reasons and
a half days stay away from his practice? "

"I believe" am Deruga said, "not that I'm there for practice, but
that the Practice for me there.

"

"A principle of concern for a doctor," said Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"Why?" Deruga replied lightly. "Most patients are very good for a few days wait, the rest need
to not come at all. Important cases I had not at that time. "

Her patients were not, however, spoiled, "said Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"In recent years, They had even lost a number because it sloppy and inattentive in the guide
Their practices were. After all, it was even noticeable to you that you save the time, without
Logout, two days were absent.

They came to your own testimony, by your housekeeper was confirmed
on 3 October, shortly before four clock back to your home.

Incidentally was noted that the next express train from here to arrive at three clock twenty
minutes in Prague. Your consultation was not yet over, and patiently waited for two patients
who from your housekeeper with a view of your will soon be let had put off. You refused, however,
this good-natured people who with some consideration was well worth
would be to accept, because you, you said to your housekeeper, were
tired and went to bed wanted to create.

Your stay in their virtue in such a delicate lady must, therefore, very hard have been. "

"I think women are demanding," said Deruga, "especially if they are stupid."

"Suppose, then," said the chairman, while the prosecutor was wringing his hands and tailed under
diabolical eyebrows almost vanishing eyes directed to heaven, "that the Them lady friends
as stupid as virtuous! Let us now turn to another important Point above! Would you tell when and
how you aware of the contents of the will have been set by which the deceased woman Swieter
you the heir to their property! "

"In early November," said Deruga, the date "I have not noticed by the competent Authority. "

"You
are," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "you have expressed surprise and delight your lively. I notice,
"he repeated emphatically to the jury," that other people blogs testify astonishment and joy. "

"Oh, noble judge wack'rer man," said Deruga smiling.

to refrain "Please asides," said the chairman. "It's already half past eleven Clock, and I want to
come to lunch with your hearing to a preliminary end. Please tell us how and when you first
some of the charges against you suspect heard! came "

"Through a very decent man," began Deruga, "very decent and respectable, although he is only a crude
Italian Wine Merchants. His name is Tommaso Verzielli and came to fifteen years as a poor
devil to me, after serving a five-year prison sentence had. He had stabbed a policeman to arrest
a poor old woman wanted because they had taken in a bakery a loaf
of bread.

He was very despondent and wanted back to Italy, because, among Germans, he said he would not but
out of prison Come out because he would constantly watch things, and the blood rushed to his
head. I said it would not be different in Italy, and spoke to him he should bring people to
tear each other can, if they were worthy of each other, and it would be a pity to none. He should
marry, and only for women and children and provide work, and besides, I was him to start the
Council, a trade with Italian wines and other foods, and shot him a little capital on this. He
told me long ago set aside, because by industry and intelligence, he brought himself quickly
up, but he still has a devoted my gratitude, as if I gave him every day life.

This Verzielli so came in mid-November run in the late evening full of excitement to me and
told me that the Italian Consul, Cavaliere Faramengo, a good old man, but something moronic,
was with him was - namely Verzielli has now a very fine restaurant - And had in his hand and
asked me to tell as the deepest secret that I should be arrested
as the murderer of my divorced wife.

The good man was out of and offered me his whole fortune if I wanted to flee to America. 'Deruga
and ? Flee As you know Deruga bad, good friend, 'I said, and ran
immediately, despite Verziellis Plead, the Italian consul.

The poor old man nearly had a stroke, so hard I asked him what he, and I did not get any satisfactory
information from him, traveled I am here to learn about the origin of the infamous rumor.
"

"You had to be informed," interrupted Dr. = = Zeunemann one, "that the Court has already decided
would have to bring to the charge of murder against you, and that a possible libel suit to
postpone until the end of the process would. If your first appearance, as I will not fail to notice
the appearance of innocence could raise so polluted They, however you react to the coroner
in relation to objectionable manner. Thus First, the question of where to from 1 to 3 October
would have been denied the answer. Then you told you were the intention of taking his life, continued
to any breakpoint got out and then randomly went across country,
to They would come in a very lonely place.

On a river you have been lying and fought with until you had gone to sleep over it. After many hours
of solid sleep would you wake up sober, still would have hung around a while and would then gone
home. Finally, the story appeared on the mysterious lady. The Born fantasy bubbles very productive as
possible. "

"Not like you think," said Deruga. "I just wanted to annoy the coroner
and can say that I have succeeded.

       He almost got nervous cramps. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann had a break pass before the laughter had died down in the audience, and then
said, "I am surprised that a man in your situation, your age and your Understanding is so childish
act like - or as foolish, because maybe your were different Details only a method, are customized
to ensure unsafe and misleading. "

"Were you ever questioned by a clumsy investigator" asked Deruga. "No, probably not. So you
may not know how you feel in such Situation would behave. However, probably more reasonable than
I do. They have an enviable Constitution. Are you really a model, as will be the healthy man.
All Vibrations caused by hideous impressions, questions, doubts and
passions are with you with a perfect digestive regulated, so that
you are always in stable equilibrium; I am against infinite irritable.

"

= Dr. = Zeunemann had tried to stop the defendants, but without sufficient
emphasis.

"They probably have more reason to be anxious than I am," he said now with a touch of irony.
"Maybe would feel more comfortable when you tried it once with complete
openness, rather than to provoke us and by your pandering.

"

"You, Mr. President, I will not bother, you can rely on themselves,"
said Deruga with a friendly reassuring tone, as he was about a child
against strikes.

* * * * *

"Wait in the hall on the first floor for me," whispered his client Judicial Fine to, just then the
session was canceled. From there they went through a rear portal
in the systems that led to a quiet street with no business.

In front of a shrub-covered slope was the counselor are poked with the tip his umbrella in the
old, wet-bonded sheets ceiling and said, "Since it must soon Snowdrops
and crocuses give, and I will make them the way a little free.

"

"Come, come," said Deruga, the counselor's arm pulling. "The finding
their way without you.

Tell me, today I can not read during the afternoon session, or better
yet ?

       Sleep That stuff bores me beyond description, so you could give me
a push, if I have to push me.

"

"Do not do anything stupid," said the counselor, "this afternoon is probably the Councilor heard of
little mouth, which is very bad for what you. You have to be careful, then, if you did not
patch up something on your hand, a witness. "

"On the witness patch," exclaimed Deruga. "I would like killing him. I hate these people Rather,
this pink Wachsguß over a sewer. "

"Listen, Deruga," said the counselor. "I understand you do not often, but at the least, how a person
might owe money, you hated. You would also have the money may have from other sources, for example,
from the good Verzielli. "

"Probably it would hurt your sense of honor, a man hated to owe money," Deruga said. "You see,
with me it is different. I made it fun to see what kind of Fear he had for his dollars, and
as he struggled to remember the fear rather than allowing it To preserve the appearance as if it was
him all the same. Because he wants first, for immeasurable Second, for very rich and broad-minded
are in money matters. If I had money in abundance, I would have probably not yet paid him to watch
him fidget. "

"I think you can hate terrible," said the counselor thoughtfully by the Doctor not without admiration
of the page viewed.

This laughed heartily and thoroughly as a child. "I can, however,"
he said.

"I Sometimes you want a turn around a knife in the heart, only his mouth because I do not fallen.
But today I want to take afternoon together for their benefit, as best I can. "

"Yes, I pray," said the counselor, "I feel somewhat responsible for
you."

* * * * *

Councilor of little mouth seemed immersed in the selected clothes,
in a pleasant, sophisticated fragrance with the easy and secure its
passage, with the general popularity, in the Court Room.

The oath which the President auditioned him, he repeated, with amiable complacency and a slightly
questioning finale, as if he wanted to make sure every sentence,
whether is the chairman and love God so would be quite well.

"The accused," began Dr. = = Zeunemann the trial, when all formalities were dismissed, "Is your
19th since May. Since then, five years, six thousand marks guilty. Would you, please, To tell
how you met the accused, and how it happened that he borrowed the money from you! "

"Both are done quickly," said the Councillor.

"I learned in medical Deruga club know he also treated me occasionally a small growth in the
nose. Colleagues recommended it to me because he had a very light
hand, which has confirmed my own experience.

It was when I tried a very simple case, but it can be indeed prove his abilities. Some little originality
and oddities he had in itself, for example, I remember that he was expecting me always, as would something
extraordinarily painful, but what was not the case. I have heard that he at will, say the mood,
the patients treated quite painless or very coarse. But that does not really belong here,
and as far as my personal experience, can I praise him as a doctor only. When I now occasionally
remarked on the shabby facilities his waiting room was, he told me he had no money so set up, as
he like what I told him, following a momentary feeling, offered much as he needed. I'm probably
not a very level-headed machine, "the Councilor turned with a smile, "But in this case, a colleague
and capable doctor that I felt nothing to risk. "

"Did the accused used the money for a new facility," asked the chairman.

"Furthermore, I can say from personal experience nothing," replied the Councillor. "It was me later
took place, is so much chatter, the chair of his waiting room would always shabby, understandably,
I have avoided it but to seek him out and tell me about it to teach. "

"Would you say that?" Turned against the chairman Deruga. "Have you
for the borrowed money waiting room redecorated?

"

"Is that part here," asked Deruga. "I always believed that we could use his money as they wanted,
no matter whether it is borrowed or stolen. "

"They refuse the answer?"

As far as I remember, "said Deruga sullenly," I have instruments, modern appliances, an operating
chair and the like for purchase. "

"You have," continued the President, the witnesses, "Over the next
few years, the Defendant never warned?

"

"Keep," replied the Councillor. "A colleague! In general, I would without sufficient reasons
never do.

I had given the money actually lost, because the talk was, as plants Deruga his practice only
manage a very sloppy and unregulated life. I Incidentally, as I want to preface the same, not
investigated the truth of this talk and please to draw any conclusions
from it.

"

"So we go without further to the cause of," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "persuaded you that To
recover money.

Are you telling the process in the context! "

"In September last year," reported the Councillor, "I met with Deruga in the already mentioned
medical association together after almost a year I did not see and the money so to speak had forgotten.
He shouted across the table in fairly informal manner, he would a patient, which he believe that
they have a lower body pain, send me, I they should investigate and
if necessary deal with, but pay for nothing that she could not.

More on its way than the thing itself out, I said, I like to believe wants a little cool, I
was very overwhelmed with work, the patient may indeed be in the consideration future cash
go to the doctor.

It was Deruga chalk-white face and showered me with a torrent of insults, like, that I had it
apart only to money making, the Physician Kommerzienrätinnen and royal courtesans and the
like would be what I do not want to repeat.

I would like to say that I think how unfair his accusations were
also inappropriate and how the form was, as he raised it, he made
them bona fide = =.

He had the opinion that I am unfeeling and sought only after sounding success and outer glow,
perhaps because he due to some folk or gypsy-like assessment of the Sense of orderly civil life
with its traditional notions of decency and Honor goes off at all. In that instant, I was able
me to this objective view not to raise, but, I confess, I felt hurt and indignant at heart.
"

"Almost would have melted the pink Wachsguß," whispered Deruga to the Judicial Council.

to rein in "Without my indignant feeling, or just want it to, I replied vehemently that he had the
least reason to make me such allegations, he helped out because I
willingly and would not nachgetragen the loss.

I would have thought at that time to pay, he said mischievously, otherwise I would have lent
him anything. However, I said I had a colleague considered so honorable that he paid his debt,
and since he is me even out demand, he should do it.

The dispute was then by several colleagues who in the middle, put a size. Before we parted, I said to
Deruga, he should what I had said earlier in a violent outburst, regarded not as if I wanted push
him. Please allow me to note that the whole thing, I voluntarily
have never done in public mention would! "

"May I ask," said Justice
Fein, turning to the witness, "you are after with not a word and came
back with no hint of the money matter? "

"No, absolutely not," replied
the Councillor. "It did me the contrary sorry that I in the reminder
of the excitement had let slip. "

"Well," said the counselor, "was
the basis for Dr. = = Deruga not changed in the least, and there is
no reason to claim that he had absolutely have to give money to to
pay the overdue debt. "

"I beg you," said the prosecutor, "by the
incident in the medical association was the obligation a number of
colleagues has become known, but is this a significant change able.
So much honor but we may require for each and every educated man,
that he was not indifferent. "

"Take, please, Dr. = = Deruga as he
is, and not, as in the opinion of others should. Since he did not
care to stay Councilor of the money owed little mouth, for the He
apparently had no particular preference, it was probably very little,
that a few other colleagues with whom he seems to have stood quite
well, it did. In any case, if he was so thick-skinned earlier this
point, he will not suddenly become so sensitive be that he committed
a crime in order to pull out of a jam. "

The leisurely grandeur,
with the standing of the Judicial Council, the weight of his massive
form and his great shape, calm face convinced even more effective
than his words and fidgety brought his opponent out of countenance.

"Yes,
if man were always so consistent," he said fiercely. "For the fact
that men prefer Commit crimes as a spot to put up their so-called
citizen found many examples. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann raised his hand
commanding silence.

"A criminal action is expected of the accused
still did not at first," said he said. "When he approached his former
wife about money, this was more than insensitive, and it is the less
striking, as we know from many testimonies that he often this resource
took into account. Hold, "he turned to the Councillor," the debt for
a motif that would have been strong enough to induce the defendants
to any unusual or concerns about even criminal way to put up in the
possession of money? "

"I must ask much," protested the Councilor
to me "the answer to adopt. I shrink to more so shy away from expressing
an opinion as to when I was not able to give me a to form. I'm not
familiar with the psyche Derugas, I could endure only in fantasies,
but of course I'm more inclined to think good than bad from a colleague.
"

"They were," continued the chairman, "one colleague to whom the
accused on 1 October zwischen sechs und sieben clock near the train
station, met and asked him if he in the medical association wants?
"

"Yes," said the Councillor. "I asked the question because I am
after what recently happened had wanted to act collegially to him.
His answer, he would go away, excited me no Doubt, since we were near
the train station and Deruga carried a package. Each one would not tell
a connected story. The opening outlines the facts and makes the evidence understandable. It
also has the function of an appetizer. This may seem a trifle unnecessary. But let us take
an illustration. A whole case may depend upon a deed. If the paper itself were put in and read
to the jury without explanation they would be bored. One witness is to tell this part of the
story, another that, and the missing link of the chain may be supplied by the deed. The jury
are not to be mystified before their interest is aroused. Are not the lives, property, or reputations
of particular men at stake? The ordinary man and even more the average juryman has far too
strong a sense of responsibility to be bored if truly he can understand what it is all about. "So he was. That 's all about. O God, he was right, to
call me an idiot. Yes, a donkey, a confounded fool I was, it is not immediately to see through
clearly. "

"Stay on task," interrupted Dr. = = Zeunemann. "The mood of the defendants struck suddenly to,
he flew into a rage and wanted to immediately run to the Italian Consul to find out who it would
have been slandered. 'They have not done so,' They called and summoned the accused, do not
hurry and with a visit to the consul until the following morning .

Wait Perhaps you were afraid he would lay hands on in his fury consul? "

"God forbid," exclaimed indignantly Verzielli. "The consul should not only know that I Deruga all
had blabbed. Also, I was afraid that Dr. = = Deruga in his righteous
anger is speak too hard and take this to the consul would.

In short, I was a fool and was extremely excited. I did not know what I said and what I did. "

The prosecutor got up during the interrogation and accompanied the responses of the Italian with
involuntary gestures, and here and there with a scornful laughter or indignant exclamation.

"In
your excitement," he now said, leaning forward, "you were in any
event the impression that the defendant spoke in earnest when he said:
'I have done so.

" Otherwise you would have not declared afterwards: "You have not done so!" "

Verzielli threw an angry and contemptuous look at the speaker and
said firmly: "What I have said and thought I was wrong, and the doctor
was right, and if he had killed his wife what he has not done so,
he would have been right.

"

A movement, mixed with laughter went through the hall.

"Peculiar view," said the prosecutor, a pushing both arms in the side.

       "I think she took the moderator, as it had become quiet again," we
let the Views aside and keep us on the facts.

Wishes of the gentlemen or the Gentlemen of the jury to ask a question to the witness? No? So we
can to Miss Klink Hart, the housekeeper or move a receptionist of the accused. "

* * * * *

A young lady of about thirty-five years ago was simple, but well-dressed,
black-haired, with a straight nose and calm, brown eyes.

She came in with quick, firm steps and saw around, as they search,
where there was to do something for her, when her eye fell on this
Deruga, she nodded to him friendly and encouraging.

The oath she made fresh and joyous, they seemed to think, now they
have the yarn in hand and will unravel the mess already.

The hearing began as follows:

"How long are you in position with
the defendant?"

"Ten years." I know him so little better than you all, gentlemen,
was in these words.

"What is your occupation?"

"I lead the house, cook dinner, do the rooms, the patients receive, write the Bills and so on. "

"This
is a great deal.

Were or are friendly, I wanted to say, in more as friendly relations with the defendant? "She
frowned and seemed give a rapid response to want to remembered, however,
and said curtly: "No.".

"How much wages you received?"

"Eighty crowns."

"Have you had additional income?"

"No."

"The body must appear to have ideal amenities.

They were probably very self? The doctor treated you well?

"

"He's me and I him. We fit well together.

Incidentally, it is light, easy to Dr. = = Deruga get along, who does not, itself bears the
guilt. "

"Good.

Do you remember the first October of last year?

The defendant left the apartment about six clock. He said you wherever he went, and when he
come back? "

"Dr. = = Deruga said he would probably not home at night and still did not know whether the next
day to re-consultation would be there.

When patients come, should I put off. "

"They believed that he going away?"

"I felt nothing at all - because I am nothing went on.

I used to never have to wonder where he would, but I teased him sometimes,
because I knew that he ran after the woman.

Maybe I have done so well that night. "

"What the defendant had with him when he went away?"

"A package."

"You know, what was the content of the package?"

"No."

"You do not know, but you guessed it, perhaps. Did you see him wrap
up something?

If he has rummaged in cupboards or drawers? "

"Yes, I saw that he was looking for something, and asked him what it was. Then he said angrily: 'Where,
hell, you have hidden the old carnival junk? " I said it was all in the Chest on the forecourt,
which in general is still present.

He awarded ie different or given away. "

"What do you mean by old carnival junk?"

»Costumes he had worn earlier in the carnival. In recent years he
had nothing more participated.

"

"What were the costumes?"

"Oh, I can not say so exactly what they meant.

Peasant clothes and a clown and a monk, I think. I am not familiar with it. "

"I suppose you offered him your assistance?"

"Yes, but he said: 'Go to hell!" This was not bad, it was a figure
of speech from him.

To me it was all right, because it was after dinner and I had to
do in the kitchen.

"

Meanwhile, the prosecutor stood up and gestured with his long arms
and made Grimaces.

"My dear young lady," he said, "the defendant had no travel bag?"

"Yes, when he traveled, he took a suitcase," Klink said Miss Hart.

"Well, my dear young lady," continued the prosecutor with a sweet kindness, "should You as a
woman and as a housekeeper, and partly from curiosity and partly from love of order, after your
Mr. bread was gone, have not checked what he had taken? If I'm in your ENABLE, I think, you
had to try to create certainty how long your Mr. bread would stay away. From what he had taken,
but some could be close. "

Miss Hart Klink folded dark eyebrows, and looked frankly hate to the
prosecutor.

"I saw," she replied, "that in the chest all jumbled was, and made another order. Whether something
was missing, I do not know, I did not pay attention. A night-shirt he had, it seemed, was not
taken. "

"Look, look," cried the prosecutor triumphantly, with the long finger pointing to it, "then I
would bring you! So a night shirt he had not taken? "

"Now what?" Said Miss Hart Klink dark, "when he went away but did not!"

"Very well, my dear young lady," said the prosecutor with rapturous
smile, "if now But no night dress in the package was, what was your
opinion then them?

"Miss Hart Klink angrily and impatiently shrugged his shoulders and said, "was probably some
costume pieces for covering the fact that he wanted to hire someone. "

"Do you want us to solve the riddle?" Turned to the chairman of Deruga.

"It's a kimono was in it," said Deruga, "the mine once brought a patient from China had, and
I borrow the lady I visited wanted to.

"

"You said just now, it would have been washing it," said Dr. = = Zeunemann the arm to the A pushing
back his chair and turning around to the accused.

"Yes, you can not imagine that I tired of the silly little things that wide-stepping have?
"he replied with such a fierce expression that the questioner drew back involuntarily. "I have
said what occurred to me straight, and next time I will ever say anything. It was a kimono, a nightgown,
a toothbrush, a revolver and a bottle of poison in it. The whole package is growing me out
to his neck. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann waited a while and then said quietly: "I ask not because it gives me pleasure,
but because it is my duty. I hope you see one and decide the what you want to specify as the
final contents of the package. "

Derugas trains smoothed out. "Really," he said with a charming smile, "I 'm a rude fellow, excuse
me. So it was a kimono in the haunted package. "

"They wanted the loan to the conscious lady," said Dr. = = Zeunemann added.

"The carnival begins in January as I know," said the prosecutor.

Deruga laughed. "The lady made their preparations either very early or they needed him for another
occasion. I will occasionally ask and let you know then. "

The prosecutor was shaking with anger, more so than he on the face of the Judicial Council and
the amused smile of the Chairman saw that the latter, however, quickly suppressed. "Let's go
now," he said, "to the return of the defendant on 3 October on. What was it before? Do you
still remember, Miss Klink Hart, said that Dr. = = Deruga? "

"Oh yes," she said. "I said, 'I'm glad you come, Doctor. It wait a few patients over two hours on. "
The doctor said, 'So much the worse for her, I am very tired and I will immediately go to bed. "
I asked him if he does not own at least a moment wanted to talk to them and order them again.
Then he made a dismissive motion with the hand and said, 'I can not,' and then I knew that I did
not press him further is likely. "

"Were you not because of this behavior," asked the chairman.

"Absolutely not," Klink said Miss Hart. He suffers from migraines, and if an attack comes, He
has such a headache that it is all the same. He lies down then, and I must leave him alone. It's
usually the next morning over. He looked so pale from how he always does when he has a migraine.
"

"So he went to his bedroom, and you have not seen him until the following morning? He had the package
with him, he had taken?

"

"Then I did not pay."

"I would remind you, Miss Hart Klink," said Dr. = = Zeunemann strictly, "that you testify under
oath. It is credible that you did not think for a moment on the package, but since you at
the other Days cleaning up the room, but it will be you of that? "

"You think, Mr. President," said Miss Hart Klink with a more lively fire of their quiet, brown
eyes, "because you have a suspicion, and imagine that perhaps it would be any instrument of death
in the package was. I was at ease, so I took the package not important,
what it also was not certain.

But if it was a costume was that he had lent to someone, so he could
indeed do not bring back. "

"Yes, if," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "that's
right. Because the defendant had a Chinese Kimono? "

"Chinese stuff
I've ever seen," Klink said Miss Hart. "Incidentally, I know But not
everything that has the doctor. I am not a spy. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann
flipped a while in the files and then asked, "Did the defendant will
immediately release it made when he got the news of the inheritance
that he has fallen was? "

"Yes, he called me," Klink told Miss Hart,
"for I was in the kitchen and he was very excited and made all kinds
of future plans and asked me what I wanted, But something beautiful
and precious it should be. I said I had only one wish, namely, a couple
of diamond earrings. He promised me, but he teased me with how it
so its kind was. We have a good laugh. "

"He was looking forward
so much?"

"Certainly," said Miss Hart Klink quietly, "he was almost
mad with joy. He constantly suffered from the narrowness of his resources
and liked to imagine that he was rich. He was like a child when he
indulged in such representations. But he often said, just one hour
afterwards that he despise all the begging. "

To order a tailor and
a hairdresser have been heard, which Deruga larger amounts was guilty.
The elegance of the cutter was not flattering as that of the Privy
Councillor of Little mouth, but devastating, and that beat them very
much the poor devils, for which they do not come into consideration,
not as those who had money, but enough or taste and education enough
to be his equal or his clothes artist to trust. He said he soon drew
suspicion because he = Dr. = Deruga not for a truly fine gentleman
could have met. He, the tailor, had only very fine Customers and was
therefore mistaken in this respect is not easy. Deruga was far too
cordial dealings with its employees and have at times been with him,
the tailor, jokes made it in the presence of its employees, respect
for, not like belonging would have. His remarks on this subject have
not Deruga understood. He had therefore Deruga and semi-annual bills
sent, while he sent the annual fine customers only. Deruga since he
was two and a half years, guilty of one thousand marks, which is not
much, and he customers would make a fine return for any of them picked
up, he could of course not be indifferent when it dealt with a man
of dubious character.

When asked whether he Deruga against an expected
inheritance or other sources of money would have spoken, which were
at his disposal, the tailor said, with elegant reserve, Deruga've
chatted a lot, it may have fallen even such words, and he followed
But for years the principle of private communications, which made
him its customers, either repeat to keep still, and was therefore
no longer able to remember it himself. Altogether it would be the
gossip Derugas occurred far too insignificant, except that he his
memory would be charged with it.

The barber said with fire, have
no doubt that Deruga paid him the outstanding debt would, if he had
ever been warned. Deruga it was priced too high have been a man after
his own heart, genial and generous, to serve whom he had always credited
for the honor. His eyes penetrate the human to the core, it can never
be blinded by apparent sizes and the least he did not contempt. "And
if he never paid me a penny, gentlemen," exclaimed the hairdresser
with momentum, "I would always dedicate my strength to him and never
stop to say this is a great man "

"Was Deruga with you," asked the
chairman, "after being informed of the estate having been had? "

"I
may flatter myself, to have been the first, 'said the barber," which
the doctor pours out his heart about this event. 'Now I will reward
you royally, "said he to me, 'because you deserve it because of your
art as well because of your honest convictions. " Doctor namely mine
used to sometimes when he was strong in the mood, the confidential
Du . Give I replied, with the payment he should keep it as it wishes,
but his customers he should not escape me. 'You do not know Deruga
bad! " he exclaimed, 'you think I underestimate your cabinet because
it is located in an Alley and no golden mirror and thinking artists
designed chairs there are? And if I were Emperor of China, in this
shabby but comfortable chair in your master's hand I would shave .
Let I hate and detest the money, and if I did not need to vermin,
People called me to keep at bay, I would make the whole inheritance
in the next ditch. '"

The prosecutor shook his head with a desperate
sneer. Suppose the question of the time a crime was committed arises and the defense
tries to prove an alibi by showing the defendant was in a saloon at that time. There may have
been three witnesses who really saw him at the same time. One witness comes on the stand and
says 3:10, the next witness says he saw him at 3:10, and third says the same. The jury conclude
that the story has been made up.

Yet suppose the first witness says he saw him sometime after lunch, and the second that he
remembers seeing the defendant in the saloon sometime that day, but he is not sure whether
it was in the morning or the afternoon, and the third witness says that he saw him during the
week, but that he does not remember the day, whether a Thursday or a Friday--it is probable
that the defendant will have a much better chance of succeeding with his alibi. She may protest under the hand as much as they want, but that is but the
public not change. As if the process does not already scandal would be enough! "

"Maybe your daughter from the girl was basically against it," said
Dr. = = Zeunemann, "That you deal with it?"

"But, dear Court Judge," said the baroness, "you can not expect me
to the silly objections of a young girl, a child, eighth, when it
is so important Decisions involved.

Would you do that? "

"Anyway," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "I would look to avoid in your place now that your daughter anything
staged.

She seems in great indignation and Excitement to be, and to some extent because you, madam,
the process in their interest encouraged to have say. "

"Oh, the ingratitude of children," sighed the baroness. "If I had all this horrible and Scandalous
to take me, if I had not thought it my duty to my daughter to fight
for the material advantages that you charge?

Why do you say nothing at all, Botho? " she turned to her husband "I hope you will use your authority
to Mingo . Bring '

"I will try and hold back from striking steps," said the Baron.

"By the way you know, yes, dear child, that Mingo is not easily influenced. "

"Very easy even said," the baroness, stretching her nostrils, "one must only understand to impress
her. "

"This is probably too accustomed to us," replied the Baron quietly, "and too much of us spoiled.
"

"From you," corrected his wife. "Thank God that it is too far away to give us substantial to
be troublesome. "

"The letter I received today," said Dr. = = Zeunemann, "bears the postmark Ostend."

"Ostend" cried the baroness, as she rose from her chair. "She's gone from England, without us
asking for permission!

You must not let go, Botho, "

"She has the intention to come here," continued Dr. = = Zeunemann away.

"Thank you, Mr. Court Judge," said the Baron, is also rising, "That you have warned us in so
considerate manner.

We do not want your precious time one minutes take longer in demand! "

The baroness thanked her with kind words and tied the request because of the baroque ideas of their
daughter to have nothing to be known.

In the large entrance hall at ground level, the audience pressed yet, so that the couple do
not could move forward as quickly as it wanted.

Half angry with her husband, who did not make it this way or that
cleared the way, insulted half by people who do not stand by itself
before it fell back, still the baroness, as Suddenly something moved
them to turn the gaze to the side, and quite close to the face saw
a man, who, as it seemed, looked with scorn intrusive.

By angrily turned away, [TN1] they saw a striking pin in his tie, and it was her at once clear
that the man was Deruga.

A feeling of weakness and nausea came over her. "Why do not we go further," she said violently
to her husband, urging him by the arm forward.

He noticed her irritation, doubled his efforts to carve a path through
the crowd, and brought them within minutes to the waiting car.

With the expression of extreme exhaustion, she threw herself into the corner of Rear seat.

"Have you seen Deruga," she said to her husband, who asked, worried about her health, "And how
bold he was staring at me? It is incomprehensible that these people can walk around freely leaves.
As horrible as I had not imagined. "

"You have it but not now seen for the first time," said the astonished baron.

"I know no one without a glass," she said irritably, the "You know that. I do not know how I want
to recover from this impression. Is not it outrageous that I defenseless of revenge this man
am suspended? I will feel a moment of my life more secure. "

For that matter, "said the Baron, she could be calm, a defendant or suspect was always careful.

"And
some people always believe what is most convenient," she added.

You'll even think calmer when they had dined, the Baron predicted good-natured. You was about
hungry, tired and attacked by the bad air. This is still by Mingo caused shock came. She should
rest in the afternoon, instead of re- hours in the musty courtroom imprison and disgusting
exciting impressions suspend. He was ready to go and to report their detailed report, in any case the
next hearing would bring nothing new.

This acted in did so. Dear wife of Castle, the owner of the board in the second Home, said principal
adverse, that they have only fine audience that never heard of their retirees had happened
that she could not say anything end the process subject. You could not of course answer for anyone
who ask for rooms with her, and keep records they could not even about everyone who came, but
they refuse to relinquish anything to say about the traffic end at their estates. She begged
urgently, that the living with her incommode fine gentlemen not with questions and inquiries
would to any could result in result.

After this delicate lady appeared Rübsamen woman, the wife of the composer and music writer on the
second floor of the third house, and excused her husband, who was
ill and in general too nervous to appear as a witness, since the very
notion, in such a process to be intertwined and got him into morbid
excitement.

He was after all a artistic temperament, you can not deal with him as with ordinary people. He
had but nothing can avail, for his memory was weak, and if he efforts do in order to think,
he got nervous conditions.

Herself besänne however still probably on the 2nd October as the Ursula them in the morning
I asked, if possible, to take a little consideration, Ms Swieter have such a bad Night and could
perhaps have had some sleep during the day. Course would take her husband and they respect you.
Swieter woman would be a pleasant party was, and had her husband always said he could not appreciate
it enough because they did not play the piano and otherwise no instrument exercised, only
the disease had been embarrassing to him.

The idea of ​​having a Dying or dead in the house to have had, that very unbearable for her husband
now I live a family of them who did gymnastics together every morning and evening, and her
husband say almost daily, he would however like to take on the poor
woman Swieter consideration when the only Turner could not have his
head.

You would have done their part and the piano tuner sent away.

It was already the time was where her husband used to keep quiet lunch.

An hour later, a gentleman had called, she would have him but not really a fine gentleman considered.
He would have asked Mr. Rübsamen would like to check his voice, whether
It was worth the trouble, they train to leave.

You would have the Lord in the salon and It said her husband, who
would have wondered what it would be for a man what she had said,
before her, he would like a trooper, or at most an upholsterer.

Such people did not hear often that some poor devil had made his fortune through his beautiful voice,
and if they could then shout so right that shook the walls, they imagined that they would born
for the art. Well, then her husband would have had no desire to check the of votes in any case
would be a thankless task. If you wanted to dissuade the people they would often rather coarse,
and for a nervous man as Mr. Rapeseed is the poison.

Their task would it be the excuse in such cases, so a person with good manners, and this time they
would have done by them to have said that her husband was not home, he wants to come back
another time.

It must however say he would never again seen again.

Whether they have asked the Lord for his name, asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"No, no," said Mrs. Rapeseed, "I just wanted to get involved as much. Well, after a few years,
he is perhaps Mirabilio or Birbanti. "

"That leads to nothing," said Dr. = = Zeunemann softly to his neighbor, behind the hand yawned.
"I knew it before."

"Enough, enough," said the assessor as well.

Whether you've rung around noon, a beggar or hawker with her, asked
Dr. = = Zeunemann yet, but interrupted the witness, as they began
to discuss a number of ways in the call, just tell what she knows
determined.

Something specific with respect to to know, however, Mrs. Rübsamen with determination of the
hand, as the investigation was completed on suspicious visitors to
the house on the fateful day for the time being.

= VIII =

"That was nice of you that you have deposited the security deposit for me," said Peter to Deruga
Bunny by giving him her hand.

"Just as you, gentleman through and through. I am your obedient servant. "

A tinge of red colored the pale face of the writer.

"You promised me firmly that my name should not be called," he said, the Eye brows. "I do not understand
how you could leave it."

Deruga laughed.

"I would have put a trap, and you are gone in," he said. "So you Are there really. To do that I am a good
judge! If I could sit still Like the German, I would perhaps also a poet. "

"Better than me," said Peter Rabbit seriously. "They understand it better in any case, your Life
to write poetry.

"

"This is probably for you rather dry," said Deruga. »Society Lion, rich woman, Favorite of the
audience, privy, nor about the personal nobility.

Somewhat schematic, but quite comfortable. How? Always in a so-slightly perfumed atmosphere. "

"I
want to spend the evening with you," said Peter Rabbit distracting.

"If you do nothing better ? Plan "

"That would be bed and sleep," said Deruga. "Both are wonderful, but I can always have However,
they might just today. Join us, Judicial Council, "he turned to his lawyer.

He said he needed to look after his family, for half an hour he got still time. He was pleased,
he said, as she hurried off in the room of a restaurant in Were eating, meet Peter Rabbit. Although
he was only a simple-minded professional people, have no Time left
for the beautiful literature, he considers the reputation of Hase's
name reached him.

In his youth he had held for a gourmet and connoisseur in the arts, the But most youthful egotism
was.

"I think so too," said Deruga. "A fine steak, a little bloody, Grilled, They understand it better.
"

The counselor smiled good-naturedly. "Well," he said, "this study has one every day Opportunity,
a good book is rare. And you know, true stories that I would read. One can learn something.
But to be guided by other people's fantasies on the nose, to me my
time is too precious.

"

"Life is unfortunately generally commonplace and boring," said Peter
Rabbit, "and the seal is a beautiful, be more colorful carpet.

"

"Yes," said Deruga, a purple sea of ​​monsters, miracles, treasures and rarities. " Green glass,
sweet as opal, black like storm, inexhaustible, unfathomable, always
charming Births living ferment and greedy after all.

But it is still just life. "

Peter Rabbit Deruga considered carefully, in whose eyes the narrow
conceptions of seemed to reflect.

"They are just a poet for the feelings," he said. "You feel makes it so. "

"And basically it's all the same nasty dirt road," said Deruga in
a different tone.

"Well, since you go back too far," said the counselor. "Let's look at our process! They are just original
enough to me, and the Baroness Truschkowitz any case, no usual number. "

"I do this type women," was a fast Deruga hate. "Selfish, greedy, limited, cold and ever eager
for new sensations. Without money, she was a prostitute. "

"But, but, my dear sir," said the counselor, gently scolding, "since you seem to me to be a little biased.
"

"So," said Deruga, heat up, "you find it decent, greed and money a
stranger to suspect of the murder?

A man who has done her no harm? What a Attitude! I was an aging woman who was my wife, the
mother of my only, my expensive, holy child, kill, because to me
no money, or not enough wanted to give money perhaps, a few months
earlier to come into the possession of their property?

I swear the I you would never have such thoughts. "

"God," said the counselor, things like "Come yet available.

One can not life ever seen in pink lighting.

There are already people for a few coins have been killed. Also, you forgot or want to forget
that the Baroness will not this motive explicitly down under has, and if it is for vindictive, fierce and
tollköpfig keeps doing it to you actually not far wrong. "

Deruga rested his head on his hand and did not answer.

"I feel obliged to tell you," Peter Rabbit began after a pause, "that
I had made the Baroness at your request a visit.

They gave me the impression a lady. "

"What an impression it should have to do?" Deruga said sharply. "One street cleaning woman or a
groom? By the way, it's all the same.

You will probably with the famous Writers flirt. "

She flirts no longer than it does any lady, "said Peter Rabbit. "Even in a particularly tasteful,
age-appropriate manner. I happen instead as if the desire in her surfaced, I should marry her
daughter. They spoke to me again and again of her daughter. "

"Well," said Deruga, mocking laugh, "prostitute and madam, that's
almost the same.

Only It is very common to marry off his own daughter. A woman who know the men must. You will
agree with me, gentlemen, we all duly rolled in the mud. "

"However, we are not as pure as a girl of good family," said Peter Rabbit unchanged calmly
and politely, "but I do not know if that would ever want to. The women themselves It apparently
do not. "

"No, apparently they love the dirt," said Deruga. "Basta how you feel about the little Baroness?
"

"Before I had seen and spoken," said Peter Rabbit, "I abstain from any decision. Since their property
is not extraordinary, it must have unusual qualities needed for a Marriage to be considered.
"

"On my property, you expect not," said Deruga. "This is decent and very understanding. While the
Germans are good dogs, but an Italian stag when he might not as fast running, is clever and can
not catch themselves. "

"You are now vexed Deruga," said the counselor, rising to recommend to "And in your situation
I would be there perhaps.

As for the German dog, I can Although not walk very good, but fairly bark and bite, and put myself
in you this regard are available. Goodbye! "

"Thank God, after tomorrow," said Deruga, where an attempt, amiable smile, failed. "Tomorrow
is Sunday."

But perhaps he would audition for the purpose of a short meeting,
"said Fein.

"Very well," said Deruga, "anyway Sunday the suicide car on the course
of life, Monday is a gravedigger. "

= IX .=

Sunday was, however
Deruga charitable unexpectedly by a friend of his childhood and youth
arrived, Dr. = = Gabussi Carlo, a country doctor in a village above
Belluno, the newspaper reports causes of the process had to come to
Munich to Deruga possibly assist. The friends hugged and kissed again
and again, and it took a while to to conduct a coherent conversation
were capable.

"Are you coming really because of me, Carlo, dear boy?"
Said Deruga. "That's the trouble not worth the trip, the cost and
all that "

"Nonsense," said Gabussi, "I was glad to have the opportunity
to travel. I'm from Ten years down did not come from my blessed village.
But if I got something for you could do, I would be happy. Just think
of the many sacrifices that you made me have, once again to give something!
"

"I give you?" Laughed Deruga. "Do you think that you were sitting
day after day for months with me when I sick in hospital was? "

"Well,"
said Gabussi, "you are not please me sick, but I could come to you
and did not need to be always at home where there is so little entertainment
for me was. You listened to me when I told of my beloved, and made
for me poems for them. "

Deruga asked how she was, and whether they
had still not married.

"No," said Gabussi with a touch of melancholy.
"Because my mother lives with me; and that my poor sister is lame,
I can not put a good nor a woman. Money they could earn in my village
and not, for a married teacher is not employed. But I'm so happy that
I have my mother still! She is now so Easily that I can wear on one
arm, and I wear them to bed every night, although she is afraid, but
I can not help it, and basically she has it too much. Of course, My
Lisa now has a few white hairs in her beautiful black hair. Me to
see so left behind like a silver track, the caressing hand of God.
Can you imagine the ? Think And when I see them as good and happy
children between their school, then I will probably the heart narrow,
and I think that if you so hung our children by the hand! But this
is so selfish and wrong, when I think how good I am, compared for
example with you, my Dodo, my dear old boy! How could you but only
in those infernal mess get involved! No, not now speak of it if you
do not like! We have time, I stay with you as long as you need me.
"

"The mess I will be blessed," said Deruga, "because without them
I would have you so soon not seen Gabussi! You're a bit thin now,
but otherwise all the dear, old, honest, frightened face! "

"But
you're my bronze David is no longer," said Gabussi. "You look gray,
the comes from the lack of air and exercise. Let us take a walk -
or, even better, I suppose a car, and you show me the city and the
surrounding country. "

The day was gray and soft, and the open car
drove slowly through the streets of thawing, the Drizzle drops as
the convoy accompanied by a musical. Deruga sat comfortably reclined
and gave answers to the questions Gabussis, the delighted the stately
squares and buildings. In a quiet street to the coachman, whose discretion
they left the lead gave in, Deruga suddenly saw a wrought iron gate.
The paved road to the the houses ran along left lay, and the lilac
bushes were still leafless, only one Pasture-stressed germinating
branches in a fine beam arc across.

"What's the matter?" Gabussi
asked, pushing his arm into that of the friend who sat up had. A question is asked that is to the juryman
perfectly sensible, but which is absolutely inadmissable under the rules of evidence. For example,
the lawyer asks, "What did you tell your wife about the accident when you got home?" Any reasonable
man knows that what he tells his wife is very important and bears on the question of his veracity.
The other lawyer very properly objects. The jury thinks there must be something in it. The
lawyer asks again, "Didn't you tell your wife the horses were going very fast?" The other lawyer
is on his feet. "I object," he says, "and I must ask your Honor to instruct the counsel not
to ask questions that are manifestly improper." The Court rules in favor of the objecting lawyer.
He admonishes the lawyer and instructs the jury to disregard the question. Yet what is the
effect? The jury believes unless the lawyer thought the answer would be most unfavorable to
his side he would not have objected to it so strenuously. With a Man
flirt, the one in jail or perhaps even to bring to the scaffold in terms is. I do not understand
such things. Could I only made the women's stories out wind, the ultimate cause of your unhappiness
are! You should marry again, a simple, honest, dear wife, and then come up to me in the mountains.
What have you hopeless by this shoddy? Air, light, cleanliness, are the main regulations of the modern
health science. "

"Excellent for healthy souls," said Deruga.

"But patients need warm mud and chubby Rot. "

"Nonsense," said Gabussi in great agitation, "the sentence is nonsense, and the assumption that
you are sick, too. You are only comfortable and good-natured. Promise me that you are not new concoction!
Not out of pity. Finally, the women come by love only deeper into
the swamp.

And I promise, it should Baroness really flirt with you do that you can check it deserved to be given!
"

Deruga wanted with laughter over his friend, gesturing with his long
arms, like a preacher standing before him.

"I have more than pleasure," he said at last, when he again could speak, they "irritate even
more in order to offend the more sensitive afterwards and shame to. I hate this person. "

Oh, Dodo! "Gabussi sighed," that is slippery and dangerous. Let them go but, if They despise you!
Do it for the adorable little ones sake, if you do not self-respect
do!

"

In Derugas face came a softer expression. "Little Mingo," he said.
"You really want me Nothing to do harm.

"

"You see," Gabussi said eagerly. "It was unfortunate that you had to lose your daughter. In their
hands you would surely only pure, beautiful paths. "

"Or I would have pulled me into the mud," said Deruga, suddenly darkened.

"Man

does not lead, so desperate speeches," scolded Gabussi, "or even I could to you be mistaken.
"

Deruga hugged and kissed his friend. "Again the old," he laughed. "Have you forgotten that you
do not have to take so seriously? I am not a trellis of solid peach. It can mean Words are not so
easily enjoy, it has only skimmed some dirt out and cooked be. Have you forgotten? "

Also Gabussi laughed now. "You're right, I'm a clumsy fool," he said. "It No wonder if anyone in your
unfortunate situation sometimes great moods come over. The must above all be put an end. "

The counselor, whom he interviewed, spoke out quite hopeful. Deruga did not certainly made a
good impression, and it remains too much in the dark than to any suspicion would be repealed, but the
existing evidence he considers do not quite satisfy, that conscientious jurors could then say a
guilty. Gabussis friendly Feelings were not satisfied with it, he insisted, as a witness to appear,
so that people Deruga with his eyes, that is, how he really saw,
and it does not absolve, because he could not be converted, but convinced
of his innocence.

       

"They have approached with prejudices against you," he said. "You have only a portion learned
from you. If one could judge a painting properly when only a millimeter wide Bit of it considered?
I want to tell them about your childhood and your teenage years, as you are, without exaggeration,
and artificial lighting. This is an inductive method Germans must have the scientific promise.
"

* * * * *

Gabussis appearance made a favorable impression.

It was found that his honest brown Eyes, its simple appearance and
frank talk of a German worthy.

As he had studied a few semesters in Vienna, he spoke pretty good German, he slowly and Carefully
going on.

He was, he told the defendants known since early childhood, they
had attended the same school and later the same high school.

Dodo, as he was called, was in his, Gabussis, parental home was welcome.

We have admired how much he has done under difficult circumstances as he worked his way through.

"What
were the difficult conditions," asked the chairman.

"His family circumstances were not favorable," said Gabussi. "He was busy at home much, so that
he often had to take the night to help to cope with school work. "

"How was that?"

The chairman asked, "what was his father?"

"His father was a fruit vendor at the time," said Gabussi. "He had
a small vault behind the old city hall.

"

"So," said the chairman, leafing through the file. "After Derugas stating his father was a businessman."

"Well,"
said Gabussi, a fruit seller "is still a businessman."

"By the way," he added, casting a worried glance at his friend, "has
He did not always have the same employment.

He was a good, but restless man "

The Chairman asked the witnesses to characterize Derugas father in some detail.

He had seen him and talked to little to make an authoritative ruling
may said Gabussi.

If he had been there, he had mostly gloomy and without taking part in a Angle sat, only infrequently
once he had been wantonly and then I laughed out loud and joked.

"He was not always there?" Said Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"No," said Gabussi, "sometimes he got an attack that forced him to leave the family and somewhere
to hang around. He stayed out for weeks, even months. "

"Did he drink?" Asked the chairman.

"Oh, not very much," said Gabussi, "he was very peculiar. He received from time to Time an irresistible
desire to do something, a desire for adventure. For the Family life, he was not made, and that
was for his wife and his children a disaster.

Fortunately, his wife was an angel, just an angel, and Dodo, the
eldest son, not less.

He was their image of the inside and outside. "

"It therefore still more siblings were there?" Turned on the chairman. "What happened to them
become? "

"Oh, nothing very good," Gabussi said hesitantly.

"You have the father's unfortunate addiction for adventure inherited.

"

"And the elders did not have anything like this," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"On the contrary," said Gabussi with fire. "He was still a child the support of his mother. He
tended the little brothers and sisters, he helped in the kitchen, home and business, and sang as a lark.
His mother was always cheerful and thankful to God that he had given her such a son. 'The most
gracious of his angels he has sent me' she would say, 'so I'm on earth in heavenly bliss. " Caused
it to her sorrow that he had to work so hard, comforted them by the fact that God's Loved the force
will be. While he did his homework at night or later Studies was for, she sat beside him and
sewed or mended. So they lived in reality in paradise while the father was gone. "

"He abused women and children," asked the chairman.

"Furthermore, I can not say much," replied Gabussi by another troubled Look after his friends
threw, "Dodo for neither expressed nor his mother about it. After It was her death but sometimes
occurs between father and son, for the arms had he always held somewhat in check. "

»Business and Financial presumably came down," asked the chairman.

"My friend did what was possible," and told Gabussi. He was father and mother for his immature
Siblings, although he himself was a delicate young man then. He even went sometimes in the evening,
when it grew dark, the goods to his cart in the houses. The father, however, was more and more irresponsible.
In particular, he provoked even the younger children to bad habits and bad Painting. He would
have done immense harm, if he is not afraid of Dodo would have. "

"He had become obsolete and decrepit," asked the chairman.

"Absolutely not," said Gabussi lively, "he was a tall, muscular man, much more as a dodo. But
in the anger, there seemed to Dodos forces hundredfold. His poor mother would have said that God
filled him with his breathing in order to protect his favorite. I his father slip away from
him look like a dog who knows he deserves a beating. "

Slowly, the counselor sent to his full height. "Gentlemen," he said, "I think I know what many
of you now: As we see again the indomitable, dangerous Temperament of this man! Anyone who assaults
his father, why should not assault on his wife - and so on.

I, gentlemen, I thought the opposite: re- breaks out this almost morbid intensity, if it is a question
of preventing harm or to punish. We have Deruga unusually irritable man, but what it exhausted,
the bad, ugly, inharmonious. That he is selfish reasons hands on someone or someone had done
wrong, it is far from an example. "

"Jealousy is as surely selfishness," said the prosecutor, "especially
if no Cause is given.

Also, it is not acceptable, especially in people predisposed morbidly , or, more correctly,
that are not in balance, the more mature and equivalent to a higher
age of childhood and youth.

We look at the father of the accused, as his disastrous investments with age more prominent,
and how destructive it The removal of inhibition was, which meant
the presence of his pious wife for him.

Something The same is available at the accused: With the separation from his quite decent, good
woman begins his case. "

"His case," the counselor said calmly, "because I must protest, or expression as meaning To clarify
that this is a departure from the traditional, well-trodden career. However, it is at Deruga
a certain neglect of the external position, external dignity, outer honor occurred. But this
need not be the decay of the moral man- to go together. It may be related to even a greater internalization
of it. As a citizen I am, however, for the bourgeois order. But we must not forget however,
that even the state and any man-made form of living forces, telling
him from the outside, We all I care out of chaos, flow towards you.

"

An ironic smile distorted the face of the prosecutor. "This is philosophy," said he, "and philosophy
can also be the need for mass murderers and poisoners . Prove We have, however, it very simple and
rough road with criminal offenses to .

Do Christ could allow themselves to love the publicans and sinners, we must humble to punish them.
"

The Chairman made the gesture with which you delete from a chalk board. "That goes too far," he said,
and then turning to the witness: "Have you ever even appearances with your friends before? "

"I? Never, never, "said Gabussi lively," and yet is certainly not
easy to get along with me.

My phlegmatic temperament, which has given me the nature now once, in a fiery Nature, as my friend,
is irritating in itself. My slowness in apprehending him would can often make impatient. Instead,
he was always self-sacrificing and helpful.

"

"An angel," continued the prosecutor added, grinning.

"Had the accused still have many friends other than you," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"He was almost all good," said Gabussi, "but he was friends with me. I am convinced that none
of his affairs as best as I knew. "

"This is really strange," said the chairman, "a man whose fiery, sociable temperament you highlight yourself.
"

"Yes, one might think," said Gabussi, "and if he is among his schoolmates and later saw among his fellow
students, you had to say he was fraternizing with everyone. I remember that I was not first ventured
to him because I thought I was with my Cumbersome it can be anything that was surrounded by
so many as a family.

But this friendliness, which he had on him, and each drew was only
the veil; in which he enveloped his soul, to make them inaccessible.

No one is harder to know, as he who seems to have the heart to the tongue. There are conservative
people by Silence being unapproachable or repel the other on its own. That was not his nature.
He taught through discussion and confidentiality on a wall around
him.

"

To the extent that such Gabussi was eager for the president to explain his friend's character,
increased the sympathetic interest of the Chairman. "I understand
you, I understand," he said, "that occurs when passionate, overly
excitable natures. You must always be on guard that they do not spend
too much of yourself create, and yet their animation a certain way.
"

"Yes, yes, that is," confirmed Gabussi. "He was basically soft
and easily damaged, ashamed is to show the others who were so much
harder and were more indifferent, and covered on his way He was not
an animal that produces for its protection spines or scales, he could
only spin colorful yarns and make with such deception is unrecognizable.
The preserved it well before the too close contact with alien people,
but not before all painful Clashes with the outside world that made
his heart bleed. Oh, what a tragedy that He was accused of repeatedly
inflicting other harm, suffering constantly by others! "

"Very interesting,"
said Dr. = = Zeunemann. "But, by which he suffered for so much? Well,
under his father. But he had but a good, loving mother, he had you
and the traffic with your family. "

"His mother, however, he loved
infinitely," said Gabussi, "and they suffered through, he certainly
is not known but the position in which he saw it. His soul was never
at home in the environment in which it was planted. He had a lively
sense of beauty, and everything Tasteless, both on the goods as the
people repelled him. As he in poverty or at least very narrow circumstances
was born and raised, it seemed to me always marvelous in that he bring
to everything petty and ugly, and what they are so very was sensitive.
I myself have only gradually learn to understand, at first sounded
to me his actions relating thereto as seals in Arabic or Persian language.
It was often the subject of our conversation and was a point where
we never got together. Since I did did not understand, I was often
unfair to him if he as rich as the Allererstrebenswerteste hinstellte.
I preached it like a true moral philosopher at him, but him over.
Because of the needs that made him yearn for wealth, I had no idea.
My simpler, cruder soul found their way into any environment, it is
to some extent a natural sound, and if only they were not put in a
brilliant salon, so it can coincide harmoniously. With a rich symphony
is different. My friend took beauty around them, in of the infinitely
many, so often broke up another conflicting tones. "

"So here is
but a moment where you were different from each other," said Dr. =
= Zeunemann.

"However," admitted Gabussi, "but went on Friendly dispute
the never published. We are both left us, and he envied me well even
sometimes, because I so much easier to satisfy me. "

"It surprised
me," continued Dr. = = Zeunemann away comfortably, "that your friend
is easily vulnerable to his Sense of beauty, the study of medicine
seized in which there is so much to overcome repulsive. "

"Oh," said
Gabussi, "since he came back his willingness to help and love for
the sick and Sufferers benefit. He had so far an almost brilliant
talent for his profession.
It would seem natural that the crooked and ill-paved streets of an old town should give place
to the open, smooth, and broad avenues of the modern spirit.

XIII

ELOCUTION

At last when both sides rest and the judge has passed on the latest motions, the intense action
of the drama begins. For this the clients have been waiting, the lawyers have been training.
It is the opportunity for them to display their attainments, to show their clients what brilliant
lawyers they have retained; to let the judge know how well they have understood the case; to
move and sway the jury to their side; to unravel the mysteries and by the power of oratory
to bring justice where she belongs. When his lawyer is talking, the client watches him with
admiration, but while the opposing lawyer speaks the client can hardly conceal his contempt.
He feels that his case is secure and he does not understand how there can be anything to be
said on the other side. Yet he is fearful there may be some court trick which he does not understand
and the case may be lost.

"Your Honor and gentlemen of the jury," begins the defendant's lawyer. Including the judge
in his address, although it is a matter of courtesy for the eloquence of the summing up, is
meant solely for the jury. She remembered so well because of it, because
they had gone on the clock for five days already out of the house. The woman of Commerce Steinhager
they have that is requested to come an hour earlier and an hour or two to stay longer, so it
would probably be completed in one day with the laundry, it had a foreign visit on the day notified
to it and adjust so bad if the washing is. Because now the wife of commerce would be a good
wife otherwise she did it to her promised, and it is for even five clock came through the station
facilities, as yet No one was on the road. A strong wind had blown so high that the trees are
had bent, and the dry leaves had her flown like bats to the head.

On the bridge they had to stand still for a moment, the wind had blown against them, and since they
have about a hundred yards further on the bank saw something black. First, they have meant that
it was a child or a dog because it had apparently stretched arms or legs, and she was executed
to run fast, but instead it was a strapped dress with string been. Apparently he had been
wrapped in paper, but the water mostly dissolved and carried away. They have freed the suit and
wrung and decided to take. For the one whom he had heard it had to have it thrown away, so it
was not Wrong, and maybe her late husband could use him, if he would return about once, or else
their elders when he was grown up. Whether the Lord my lawyer that they are wrong would have done?

She
looked at him anxiously from their curious brown eyes, like two small, hard-working Night lights
shone out from the shriveled face.

But no, said Dr. = = Bernburg, then some rich and respected man be happy when He no longer than
this have on his conscience. This was indeed unclaimed property was. They have done right,
it was a brave mum. Certainly they have the gown in her market basket?

Yes, "said the little woman makes, she has brought him equal to not repeat to have to come.
For it was a big detour for them and their children they used the
evening expected impatient.

She took a package from the basket, and Dr. = = Bernburger the suit unfolded.

"You know," he said, "I'll buy from the suit, whether it's the right one or not. Are you happy,
if I give you ten marks for the present one?

They should get even more, if it turns out that it is the one I am looking for. "

The small woman was red with terrifying joy. Now they can their elders, the beautiful Buy shoes,
"she said.

But she should not say of the Lord Tönepöhl business that they had made together, exclaimed Dr.
= = Bernburg her down the stairs. The need to know anything about it.

Hot, almost blind with victory came Dr. = = Bernburg in the back room, the cold and emptiness
he no longer felt. His reasoning was thus have been right!

Once it crossed the road of the happiness of his mind. How surprised they would if they solved the
puzzle and he both the evidence presented! If you were in the face of doubt still can? Maybe was
some markings on the suit, which is the determination of the shop
where he bought was allowed.

A close examination of the suit led to nothing of the sort, however, was significantly to recognize
that there was evidence a new good deal, by deliberately used the patches of to give semblance
of a poor, often worn garment workers had been tried.

By Dr. = = Bernburger the rock back and forth turned, he discovered a buttoned side pockets,
opened it, reached inside and pulled out an envelope, one blurred by the wet, but was legible
inscription.

       He read: "Mr. Dr. = = SE Deruga," then the city and the
       street.
       
       Nevertheless, this letter it only confirmed what he
       had expected, he was not only surprising, but almost
       frightened. Petrified, he stared at the letter that
       lay there like a juggling excited imagination, but
       reality was, the magic key that the gate open to fame
       and wealth would. That the envelope contained a letter
       that he had felt but still he hesitated remove it and read.
       He even knocked him to the annoyance of the Heart.

       Why the fuss?

He forced himself to quit the awkward tension by reading. The letter read:

"Dodo, Dodo dear, I am terminally ill and must die, but first I must suffer terribly and I no
one to help me. You're the only one of me loves enough to kill me. Come and free Your poor Marmotte,
of which you know how they afraid of pain. This is the first word I am after seventeen years of
you teaching, and it is a request. Oh, Dodo, to any other heart than Yours, I would dare to judge
such a request. Come soon, you'll know how it can happen. That I have written you will find
no one.

Your Marmotte. "

= Dr. = Bernburg read and read again. He was disillusioned and felt fatigued. Was this letter
perhaps a ruse, a later-built piece of work, the Deruga or his friends he had played into the
hands?

After he had carefully examined and inspected, that fraud was impossible, he pushed it in the
envelope and put it in his breast pocket. Then he took his hat and coat to go to the cafe. When
he steps from the restaurant was removed, where he used to eat dinner, he turned and went to
another bar, not to be approached by acquaintances, and he was conscious of being scattered and did
not notice.

While he ate, he could not help thinking that it did not prevent the letter in the small iron throw
stove that burned a few feet from him. In a moment would the hasty flame the fateful testimony
have destroyed. He had no intention of doing it, but the Performance was so lively in him that
she was alarmed, he would still just under the impact of the hoax probably afraid that they would
be in against his will from a height of the Abyss throw.

How foolish, he thought that he was the old woman, by which he put in such a painful position was,
had given ten marks! Would he bring himself to make use of the shell and to conceal the letter?
If he did, he was the admiration and gratitude of the Baroness secure. What satisfaction would
it give them of his keen sense of the rightness his view that he had had from the beginning to
convince! What would they contrast To say when he showed her the letter: "They promised me Deruga
to unmask a traitor, and they give him a halo! They know how to keep their word, "probably they
would forbid him to make use of the letter, and ultimately that was it for the happiest solution
by his duty was what he made of his own responsibility would not
want done.

And how Deruga would you do? = Dr. = Bernburg not understand why He had concealed the true course of
events. Should he have his lawyer said nothing about it?

Suddenly he was overcome by the desire to go to the facilities and visit the place where the would
have found the woman washing clothes; in the Restoration he did not stay in any case, can
sleep and he could have just as much. He had to walk almost an hour to the Bridge was that
led across the Channel. The snow that had fallen the previous night had dissolved and turned
into dirt, and he heard in the darkness, the dampness under his Feet clapping. The wooden
bridge was slippery, and the water was very high, black secretly and hastily-it floated away
under him. After a time, he differed little further down the wild is prancing roots of an
old elm tree that clung to the shore, where did the Bundle of clothes,
drove the river, have been hanged themselves.

Long gazed the late walkers on the job and then went on until he moved
a few steps standing in front of a semi-circular stone bench, from
which one in the summer, a had pleasant views of the meadows, which
ranged widely among the dark bushes.

Perhaps, he thought, had in the stormy October night Deruga sat there and after He changed clothes
to expect the hour when the train departed, he wanted to go home with. Maybe he was very moved
and also very tired and had rested here, where no one was watching
him.

Involuntarily waded also = Dr. = Bernburger the softened Earth and on the stone bench, without
considering how wet it was. What could Deruga have felt and thought after seeing the woman he
had loved and hated, had seen again and leave for good? What memories liked him, together with
the rustling leaves have swarmed?

However, he thought so cold it was dripping down on him, and suddenly a shiver ran through him,
and He got up and went quickly, without looking to the city.

= XV .=

The next morning felt Dr. = = Bernburg so tired that it seemed to
allow him to excuse as sick, and after he had worried the phone, he
went back to bed hoping to fall asleep again.

The ringing of the telephone woke him, and resolved with a lively sense of apathy to do it than
go to him for nothing. But when it started again, he stood with a sigh on, to hear what was
the matter. He immediately recognized the voice of the Baroness,
the apparatus of a staining was shrill.

"You are sick," she said. This, however clumsy in the extreme. She was about to to leave, and
it is therefore necessary especially now that he personally was out
of place.

He was not sick pleasure, answered Bernburg. The disease was probably not so bad said the baroness
that he could not come to a quarter of an hour to the hotel.

You must definitely speak before departure.

He regretted answered Bernburg, he would go to bed.

"But Doctor, you're on the phone," said the Baroness with the laughter, which he knew as tempting
as it sounded when it mattered.

"So I come in the name of God," he cried angrily to himself and to.

"That's right, Doctor," replied her voice, "You can even take a cab."

"You do not look sick, doctor," greeted him, the Baroness.

"My husband and I have we suddenly decided to go to Paris, "she continued," because of my terrible
Process, as I told you, so much has attacked. "

"The opinion of your daughter," said Dr. = = Bernburg with deliberate insolence, "Must be very
aggravating for you."

The Baroness blushed. "You know," she said, "that my actions by the verdict of the Youth do
not affect leave. My daughter will be with us. "

"They are moving to make the stay very jealous," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

Yes,

spring is intolerable in Germany, "said the baroness. "Maybe he is precisely because of the much
celebrated German poets so special, so it boasts what is does not know. "

"You never know so would be the secret of happy marriage," said Dr. = = Bernburg and sat, self-referencing,
added: "But I see my weakness makes me distracted and talkative.

What do Baroness to tell me? "

"I just wanted to put the process on the heart and conscience," she said. "When we look at the
last time saw I had become unstable, a result of my imprudence, present
in person to be I have now seen.

The many details, the changing statements, all the make a strong impression nervous when you're
not used to it. I will now, without I personally take care of it,
let the process run its course and expect the result.

That it just fails, this are the lawyers and judges there. "

"Yes," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

"I can still count on you," she said. Her illness will not last but a long time? I would be very
grateful if you would sometimes want to report. They said the last time that they hoped to make
a crucial discovery. "

= Dr. = Bernburg had seen the Baroness rigid and shuddered at her last words. "Unfortunately," he
blurted out something by force, "I must tell you that I forced myself
see lay down their representation of your business.

"

The first impulse of the Baroness of these unexpected words, was wounded
indignation that they as strong, fulfilled that she could hardly win
version to be heard.

"This is outrageous, this is impossible," she exclaimed at last, during a cold, stinging Expression
in her gray eyes appeared. "They want to withdraw from the embarrassment in have you caught
me. But I do not dismiss. And you have this disease only pretended, I see through it now.
It is the first step, us, me without honor in the lurch to leave. "

= Dr. = Bernburg was pale, but he remained calm with increasing determination. "I feel me sick, in fact,
"he said," and not cope with the task. It is for your sake, to resign, I will. "

"I thank you for your considerate victims," ​​said the baroness, mockingly. "But I'll take it
not. I trust you despite your disease. "

Meanwhile, the excited
and sharp voice of her mother's attention was attracted Mingos, that
in the next room was located. She entered and looked at the dispute
ends with surprise questioning looks. Without that he's been aware
of their presence inspired the young Courage a lawyer.

"If I tell
you the name and the nature of my illness, Baroness," he said, are
" They understand me better. It is that I've become convinced the
other. "

"So suddenly," asked the baroness. "Only two or three days
you spoke very differently from. "

"It happens that one's eyes open
suddenly," said Dr. = = Bernburg.

He had not yet expressed, Mingo
as his hot, wet hand grabbed with which contact they had otherwise
avoided, and exclaimed: "Oh, Doctor, tell us everything! Thank you,
Mama was also pleased as I am, if you can not admit the same! How
good of you to You admit your mistake! "

She held his hand tightly
still passionate with print, and her eyes were full of Tears, while
her lips trembled. Even in the face of the baroness broke away the
strained Faces, although they tried to keep restraint and superiority.

"Be
honest with me, sir," she said with a moderate severity. "The least
may I ask you. Their change of mind based on mental impressions or
new facts that you have experienced? "

Only now she called him by
a hand movement to sit down, and he a chair wanted to take, she offered
him with a smiling allusion to his illness on a chair. "Even a glass
of wine you have, "she added, by Mingo meant by a glance to ring.
"You look really attacked. I think I was just now too hard to You,
but you have it yourself through your insincerity and above all your
doubts debt. I think if you draw bad thoughts into account that you
want from me had, I would be nothing more guilty. "

had ended when
Dr. = = Bernburg his story, Mingos pale face was streaming with tears,
to conceal that they made no attempt, she was unable to speak. Your
mother It was not to see that she was moved.

"Tell me now, sir, in
what way changes the situation by your Fund has, "she said. The lawyers nod their
heads wisely. The judge has stated the law correctly.

The judge may go on a little further and tell them more about the burden of proof and the preponderance
of evidence. He may say that the weight of evidence does not mean the number of witnesses. The disgusted
and bored me so that I closed my eyes, and I was instantly gone. I I accustomed this in my university
days where I was often very tired. I could spend hours sleep during the lectures without noticing
anyone, except my friend Carlo Gabussi, who was sitting next to me. O Youth and sad sweet
memory! "

= II =

The meeting was opened the next day = Dr. = Zeunemann with the declaration, a witness who had
come from Ragusa, had asked to be heard immediately, as soon as possible so that they could go back
to her family. He had taken the less impetus to their request to wants to go, as he does not believe
to be important and they permit only at the request of defense counsel.

After all, you will of her conclusions about the relationship of the accused to his divorced
Woman during the early days of his marriage obtained.

At a sign there was a medium-sized lady, draped with a brick-red saddle cloth and was on her fiery red,
in many tunnels and plugged hair puffing a big, contributed by a Niagara of white and blue ostrich
feathers hasty hat. She entered Next few steps, then stopped and looked with searching glances
around, a expectant Smile on his lips.

Apparently they had to describe the place of the accused To leave because there was the view
hanging without first by the results of his research to be satisfied.

Suddenly, however, she let out a scream, cried in a shrill voice:
"Dodo" and was with outstretched arms on Deruga to.

She had not reached when the usher, who had brought in her hold of her and she was in before
the little table face the assembled judges placed where they had to take the oath.

"Excuse me," she said, sobbing, by pulled out her handkerchief, "but
the was too much for me.

This reunion after so many years! The change! And basically but the same love, crazy face! If you
make me a pan of hot coals, Mr. President, I swear to you I think into the hand to prove his
innocence! "

"The matter is not so easy," said Dr. = = Zeunemann with benevolent superiority. "However, we can
facilitate our work and very useful to the accused, if you what you have to say, in short, clear
and logical. They are called Rosine nee Schmid Outlanders are captain's
wife and forty-fourth years old?

"

"Yes," said the lady, "I'm not one of those women who are ashamed
of their age.

By the way the men also do what they can to appear young, especially in the military, and would
do it even more when so much depended on it for them as for us women. "

"Woman Captain," said the president, "the defendants Sigismondo Enea Deruga know are not related
to him. Would you be so good as to avoid all superfluous To tell when and under what circumstances you
met him? "

"With pleasure I want that," Schmid said Mrs. Captain lively. "All I want to say what I know this
because I am come. And if I had to travel to the end of the world, said I to my husband, I
did, at the Dodo to bail out. He did for me deserves, so dear and good as he always was. And
he has done it well, because even if he something great and original,
was murdered the pot of mice, it is surely no Christian man and least
of all the good soul, his wife.

"

"How is it that you give the accused a pot full of mice," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"So we call it," said Miss Smith, "the figure, the last place in the
fireworks comes when it crashes so and crackles that one believes
a fire-spewing mountain before to have.

It was a kind of endearment that his wife had given him because he sometimes attacks of anger
was when he spat smoke and fire, so that she was afraid of him.

"

"A strange nickname," said the chairman.

"Oh, Mr. President," said the woman captain, laughing, "he meant it's not actually evil, as
little as a pot of mice is dangerous. So the name just fits so well, and we everybody called him so,
although it is for me, a young girl as I was, barely legal sent. "

"Please note," said the prosecutor, "that, according to the witness, the then Deruga woman
before her husband was afraid. "

Mrs. Schmid captain turned quickly around to the speaker and said, as her Blood rushed to his
face: "If you think you have an even bigger edge over the Doctor won, that I said he was furious,
so you is tremendous mistake. The quick-tempered are not the worst, and that does say the proverb:
Barking dogs to bite not. I have often said to my husband: 'All right, you want to curse and swear,
yes, even strike in the name of God, only the mouth and eyes Scheel, the hum and night Ragen,
is repugnant to me, and I believe that one, the overflow never, the heart is not in the has
the right spots. '"

The Chairman made a final gesture and said, "your messages woman Captain, are very valuable to us.
Maybe you tell us first how you made the acquaintance of the accused, "

"Very glad, very glad," said Mrs. Captain, "I'm always on the long journey to those Time thought
about me all things are present, although it now twenty-two years ago. Yes, twenty-two years ago,
and twenty-one years, I was then old. The grandmother had just lost a lot of money on the lottery.
For, though she fancied herself a pattern to be of reason, she could
not live without playing.

And when the money would have had to beg to be together, had played. Now, because the grandfather
was annoying Although he spoke not, because he did not trust himself,
but he made a long face and sometimes a sarcastic remark, wanted the
grandmother to bring it back and set up the old summer-house at the
garden fence for rent, and it was an ad for the newspaper made.

I still like today, like late at night we sat around the table under the lamp and abrackerten
us to bring the matter into proper German.

Because the grandmother was the Written not familiar, and the grandfather
wanted nothing to do with it.

First, said he will send it to the officer to not rent rooms - for he was captain, But long gone
in the service - second, he would suffer no strangers in the house, and thirdly, it was a shame innocent
people "necessity" as the old barrack apartment. "

Her grandmother was apparently no German, "turned on the president," since her German was not
normal? "

"No, no, of course, replied," Miss Smith, she "was made out of Bosnia, but it was a very beautiful
woman and, incidentally, formed not only in the sciences. "

"And your parents?" Asked the chairman.

"Yes, my parents were from there," said the woman captain a little, blushing, "but they died
too early for me that I had to remind her, and I actually looked the grandfather and grandmother as
my parents. So, to continue in my story, when the grandfather said that his grandmother went
into a fury and said that had the pleasure house the Emperor Joseph and Ferdinand Maximilian,
or I do not know for his mistress built, as would have been in this area are the forest and
heath, and it would be something Painting on the ceiling and a stone vase, if broken, the stairs.
In addition, they wanted it aufschwatzen not the people who only
show they might as well open up your eyes and go home to God again,
unless it suited them.

If the grandmother in the fury was, she looked very majestic, and she had a hooked nose, like
a parrot, but a nice, Eyes like diamonds and thick white hair that
stood like a mountain over their heads.

To appease them, but the grandfather helped with the display, and it was finally thus: 'Here is
a smart summer house for rent, and winters useful, if you please.

It is in the open and has some furniture. Particularly suitable for a young couple. " The
grandmother wanted to write first, namely: 'for lovers. "

However, since the grandfather was almost angry and said that the grandmother would take him more
honor and good name, and it would be worse than a gypsy.

As announced by the grandmother, because she had a great respect for his grandfather's nobility
and knowledge of the world, and it was instead the 'young couple' set. "

"And to this ad came out, Mr = Dr. = Deruga and his wife," asked the chairman. "When was that?"

like
"it was in May," Twenty-two years, as I said, replied, "Miss Smith be. "

"July was it," said Deruga, "for the lime tree, under which we were
sitting in the evening, smelled, and the Rose triumphal arch over
the garden gate bloomed when we went through the first time.

"

They all looked surprised by the accused, whose melodious voice and
melodic intonation now only attracted attention, and what he said
sounded like a little song.

The gorgeous woman was again a tendency for him zuzulaufen, but suppressed it and only said, "You're
right, it was July! They know best and could even tell everything much better and more beautiful
than me. "

"Diagonally across the pavilion was the constellation of the car," said Deruga, "and if we
hand in hand at night came home, Mingo and I saw him and I thought:
How soon, flying Car of the time, you will lead us away from this
fast, silly moments in the nameless obscurity.

"

"Yes, something like that I must once have heard of you," interrupted
Mrs. Schmid lively; "For the following summer when the car was in
the sky, he saw me always look so empty, and but I had seen no one
else sitting in it, of course.

"

"So you still sometimes think of us, Brutta asked?" Deruga.

Mrs. Hauptmann Schmid drew her handkerchief, and burst into tears.

"Oh," she sobbed, "it takes me to the heart when you speak to me about the name. It's called
I so years since no one thing, because the grandfather and grandmother are long dead; and I
would not back away to the old home. Who knows if the car is still about! "

The Chair now the thread of questioning again by asking Miss Smith
to to calm, and she asked if the couple Deruga the impression of a
happy couple made and whether they would like their grandparents.

"And how! Said," Miss Smith, especially "the doctor. That is, the grandfather liked the woman
better, but he held back. By contrast, if the grandmother did suffer one, then noticed man's.
And from the moment they said it would have been a man for me. "

"As she came out," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann. "He proved to you attentions?"

"Not a bit," said Miss Smith. He joked with me, as it was so its nature. For example, he told
me always, I was so ugly that you could look at me with one eye, otherwise it was thought not,
and when I came into his path, he closed one eye, sometimes this, sometimes the other. To protect
them, he said. The faces that he cut it, were too funny that I could not stop laughing, and the
grandmother laughed too, but they but a little annoyed.

The way it was never about him, but to me, as I than ever to tell the truth, have endured much
of her, for she was quickly and angry, though otherwise a beautiful woman I love you till I die
and worship am. "

"They felt the conduct of the accused not indelicate?" Inquired the chairman.

"Keep," said Miss Smith. "If one is told in such a way that one is ugly believed to be pretty.
To marry, I never thought he had a wife, and yet to one that I admired enthusiastically. The grandmother,
she won first love gradually but then it was almost more in love with her than in the doctor.
Initially they had all sorts of suspend her: she was too old for the doctor - in fact they
had a few more years - And especially if it were not fiery enough for such a handsome and charming
your man Face would not take offense when zusähe exactly, but her eyes were too gentle and thereby
boring. Unchanging friendliness would be like porridge, one would
have to eat every day, would a foul.

In contrast, a well-peppered stew and gezwiebeltes one would never be against. Only one left
my grandmother apply to her, that was her neck. The poor woman carried namely always free of
the neck, although the time was not as in vogue as it is today, and if they went through the
garden, light, as if they had wings on his feet, "said my grandmother: 'By the way I like it,
but I would just like to kiss her on the neck. "

One day, it must have been in October, because we had taken from the grapes was the Grandmother
particularly bad mood, like every year during the grape harvest. In the meantime it was a fact
that they were sweet, and the time came, they were again acidic. Morning at breakfast she gave me
a slap, because I knocked over the coffee cup had. That is, they had given me a push, but she
said it was no excuse because I would have stared stupidly. On that occasion, she also told me
when I least would be wise, so it would go, but ugly and stupid, because it could not be a
surprise that the doctor did not take me, that he regarded me as an unmarried man does not
know and had me on the ground would not have married her shone in anything. In I stood in the
kitchen like a fool, "she said, but executed by cooking the Fortunately, the marriage off, and
that they held large pieces out, I thank her every day even if my husband says, in the finest
hotels in Vienna and Prague, it did not taste as good as Home, and yet he has traveled far and knows
it.

On the day now I wanted to make a risotto, and because I already one under the Supervision of
the grandmother had made, I thought it would certainly not be missing
me.

I So cut my onions and liver and everything and taught at the stuff, and suddenly fell me that
I was hungry, and that certainly still a bunch of grapes would be stuck, I I could get without
the grandmother noticed. I poured a little meat broth to and thought to the way I could let
it go quiet for a while. Actually, namely Risotto must be stirred constantly, and I knew well enough,
but a bit cheeky and careless I was. Now I can understand not everything, but in youth it comes
from a sudden to the other, if one imagines the future: admirer,
baskets, Wedding and so on, and I forgot about those dreams really
lunch.

Suddenly the grandmother stands before me in the night jacket, his face red as a glowing Oven,
and shouts: 'It says she and Maust, the girl that I burned the whole Risotto has! " Truly, I
could smell even through the open kitchen window, under which we stood, and incomprehensible it
is that I had not noticed before. And then she fell on me her, grabbed with one hand in my hair
and slapped the other going on to me that I felt as I would have taken a whirlwind, and turned
me around in circles. I did not hurt, I was too surprised. But much
more I was surprised when suddenly the grandmother of her hand caught
in a gale and was pulled back, and Mrs. Dr. = = Deruga stood between
us, like the angel with the flaming sword, the Adam and Eve from the
Paradise drive, with eyes that were not blue as ever, but black and
crackled, it occurred to me that is in front of my excitement.

'Let
the baby go, you vile, wicked hyena! " she cried so loud and hard
as she could with her soft voice, and after a little pause, she said
a little softer and gentle, 'Mega, I wanted to say. " As she had said
this, it was probably her own a little funny before, that she began
to laugh in the corners, and then laughed the grandmother straightforward,
and as I heard this I laughed so much that I yelled orderly, and was
the woman doctor's neck, the tears sprang from her eyes with laughter.
"

During this story, both the judge observed as Dr. = = Bernburg
in inconspicuous As the defendant, in whose countenance expresses
itself clearly, as the rising again Past witnessed his long, beautifully
cut eyes glittered like the scales a silver fish. He seemed to its
site and environment to have forgotten completely and said to ease
the old friend: "Poor Marmotte," (as he called his wife) "poor, good,
cowardly person! They will never get out. One of them
ventures.

"The judge told us that the law was--"

He is interrupted.

"Oh, we don't care so much about the law. What we want to do is to do what is right."

Somewhere, somehow, and by non-understandable methods the verdict is reached. If the jury ask
for further instructions, they file back into the court-room and the judge proceeds to elucidate
the hidden mystery of the law in much the same manner he did in his charge. They return again
not satisfied, and take up the discussion.

The most dramatic moment in the trial is when the officer comes in and announces the jury have
agreed. While they slowly file in, the prisoner or the parties watch them with soul-tearing
eyes; the lawyers with anxious expectancy. There is an electric thrill in the air. In some
mysterious manner their verdict becomes known before the foreman speaks. Call it thought transference,
mind reading, or what you will, there is a quick understanding from their faces, their manner
of walking in, and their final pronouncement is only a confirmation of what was expected.

The jury has spoken, the lawyer who has lost moves to set aside the verdict. The jury looks
startled. But you get absent-minded, doctor. "

"On the contrary," said Dr. = = Bernburg, I'm engrossed in our problem. "

"And have you noticed," continued the baroness, "she admitted that the very thing they deny
wanted, namely that my cousin was afraid of her ex-husband?

And how interesting, that men have a tendency to kill their former wife! One must nevertheless
very superior, before you do the step. "

"I hope that child," said Baron, who stood beside her good-natured,
the "is not the only to have reason which keeps up, up divorced.

"

She looked at him with a smile, which was a light mockery, and said, "No, my dear, you're much too
chivalrous, but that I could be afraid of you. "

At the same time she waved to the waiting chauffeur, heranzulenken the car approaching, and dismissed
their Lawyer with volatile greeting.

The prosecutor had hung upon leaving the hall to Dr. = = Zeunemann and accompanied him in his
room with reproachful words.

It was clear, crystal clear, he said that this have concerned the letter - sample - he said
Miss Schwertfeger. The pattern did not Exercise in lies.

He wanted to be just, but they have lied. As would be exceeded! Whether or withdrawn again by the
favor of women of a wretch deserved punishment should be? This man possessed the favor of women,
and in life as in the salon hang yes Today, the man on the favors
of women from.

Whether it actually does not cry out to heaven, although the law would be made by women whims!

The prosecutor-level during these speeches, running his hands through
the long, thin Hair that hung neglected in all directions.

"Calm yourself, my dear colleague," said Dr. = = Zeunemann disapprovingly,
"by Miss Schwertfeger take your obsession on the favor of women do
not, it clearly has an aversion against him.

"

"Words" called the prosecutor desperate. "Words, words! In fact, it favors him. Probably she
has even written to him. Is it not crystal clear, "he turned to the two Assessors.

This confirmed that they occurred, the behavior of Miss Schwertfeger striking was, but it could
also be different, for example, by the peculiar aversion to women explain to the public.

"Oh God," cried the prosecutor, "Where will this lead if such a shabby old Patterns already
may dull the sharp eye of good lawyers! "

Dear Colleague, "said Dr. = = Zeunemann, looking at the clock," you need as well as We lunch and
a siesta. Sleep a quarter of an hour! And in future please I'll ask
the questions you consider appropriate.

"

"What it helps to ask questions when you get fobbed off with lies?" Said the prosecutor bitter.
"I know now what I wanted to know, namely that it is so, as I of
Beginning said it was not a homicide, but premeditated murder.

When he learned that she their assets had left, he decided to kill them before they about, their
relatives affects other senses, and could overturn the will. "

"Shall I give you back your insinuations," said Dr. = = Zeunemann
comment, "and the suspicion that you view things through a patch of
the Baroness Truschkowitz glasses?

Comparing to its charms with those of Miss Schwertfeger, it seems almost justified the suspicion.
"

The prosecutor, the flatter the apparently teasing laugh, had to. However, added He added gruffly,
a process involved in the women would always arte in gossip, it But
all he had to testify that he was convinced from the start, it constitutes
is murder.

Yes, "said Dr. = = Zeunemann, and he voluntarily testify, moreover, that the prosecutor in his
love first convictions to be clean, like a mother would to her child
until the second and that repressed.

= VI .=

Ursula Trainor, thirty-eight years old, for nineteen years in the service of the deceased woman
Swieter, "began the President.

Ursula Trainor looked with a superior smile in the round. Evaporated before their thirst for
the facts I can only say, her expression seemed to say, falls only on her prey, and saturating
you, I think they should taste you.

"You have to live together so long with all the conditions of women Swieter very familiar have
been. "

"I should think," said Ursula, "what comes to my lady, I know from the beginning to over, it is no different.
"

"Did the deceased sometimes of the past, I mean from the time of her
marriage to the defendant, spoke with you?

"

"Whew!" Ursula gave a whistling sound, which seemed to be saying that
this countless times been the case.

"Especially since the time when she was sick, the poor worm. If I then sat with her at night,
that was always: 'Do you remember this and that, Urschel? Knowledge You have the story of the
beggar? "

Namely, in the first period, when our doctor No patient had arrived just as all the beggars who
were in town, and even the doctor himself went to the door and said,
'You, my friend is, I would what type?

So what you have earned today? Well, you tell the truth, at least one Mark, at least! You go on
crutches, have only one eye - beautiful, we say one mark. I do not mind. In four weeks I have not
earned ten marks! But if you have a cigarette and do make me a little society '- and he has a truly
once with his own hand shot a cigarette, which looked as if he straight from the garbage cans
would, but otherwise a mischievous, funny guy who came every few days and said the same, when
I opened the door, he would have nothing, only wanted the Doctor a little company . Afford "

"So," said the chairman, "do the dishes up sick so funny memories in order to to cheer. "

"Of course," said Ursula. "Pain and grief she had quite enough."

"If women Swieter the Doctor grudge nothing," continued the chairman, "to his even like to remember,
she moved well and sometimes letters to him? "

"I did think that it started again," Ursula said triumphantly. "This is But once and for all
anything.

Where it is all changed with her ex-husband letters have? Since they would have to stay together
as well. "

"That's a difference," explained to the president.

It is "possible that you located very very consistent, while constantly under one roof located
in the hair. "

"This was my lady is far too fine lady," Ursula said sternly. "From In-the-hair-lie there was
no question, and not by secret Tuscheleien after they addressed as were. When I used probably
once said, the doctor was still in essence, no worse Man was, and it was really bad but when
he found himself now on a slippery slope, and also for us, because something always came while
he was there, then shook the madam Head and said, 'If we reconciled us today, we would disperse
throughout the year yet again. " And right she was, a man like that could even be no peace.
"

So you are of the opinion, said the chairman, "that neither the accused woman Swieter written, nor
has received letters from him? "

"The opinion," repeated Ursula with flashing eyes. "From opinion you need not even there to speak,
Mr. President, because I know that.

That is why I make myself not too much if I say that God can not know better. First, I know the
handwriting Dentists from the Lord, and because she was sick a year ago, she got a letter more
is not by my hand, went and wrote it has no more, except what I or Miss Schwertfeger, but mostly
dictated Miss Schwertfeger. We have also their letters to be related to the post. "

"Well, my dear child," said Dr. = = Zeunemann. Her mistress was not lame! If they certainly wish
they could get up and pick up a pen and write, without They knew it, and she could also, for
example, Dr. = = Mr Kirchner, her doctor to be attended a letter to ask. "

"Yes, it seems that you, Mr. President," Ursula said indulgently, "because you do not it better
. Know But that my lady behind my back and sending the letters wrote,
which is excluded.

If you knew the circumstances you would not do such a thing to mind . Come No, and even if
it was not lame, and she was not, however, it would but they made
no such ceremonies with me where no occasion was this because, for
yes they would need only to say: 'Ursula, from the letter to no one
know something and you should know not.

" And must give to the Lord = = Dr. Kirchner a letter about it you really laugh when you know
the conditions. Since she had not even known whether he not half a year in the bag would retain
or have lost even the stairs. And why would you have to entrust their secrets to strangers, but
they find Miss Schwertfeger, and I had to which they could rely on?

So you propose to only from the head, Mr. President, with the secret
letters!

What went on in our house is, I know, and could not proceed because what I do not know. "

"You will still have sometimes been shopping, dear young lady," said the President, who still
did not want to declare defeat.

"Do you know what vorfiel in the apartment, if you were not there? "

"If you fool me think so, as they say, Mr. President," replied Ursula unshaken, "you have slipped
to say with permission. If I was gone, could least of all something happen, then that is because
I locked the door behind me. My mistress had placed himself and said, 'You know, Ursula, because
I have not to get up, after that, what the doctor says, it is easiest to close from the door,
so I am sure that no one can enter. If someone, he might ring and . Come back It is not exactly
burning while you are away. " Well, for that matter, I was quite calm about it, for where it
should burn, where I always in the morning or afternoon went out,
when there was no fire in the house.

Miss Schwertfeger had specifically of the apartment key, so she could
at any time into it.

So, Mr. President, you have to realize it now, that could happen in my absence, nothing. "

"Only
been murdered in your absence, your rule," arose the shrill Voice
of the prosecutor.

Ursula was silent, but, apparently, more rigid than the audacity of this fact to lead than overcome
by its probative value. "So far we have not yet," she said finally pulling himself. "I do not
think at all to the murder, because it is impossible that something
in the apartment vorfiel while I was gone.

"

"Unless women wanted Swieter myself," interjected the chairman.

"Yes, but you will not believe, Mr President," said Ursula, again in the previous train of thought
back down, "that the terminally ill woman got up and possibly three flights of stairs down the
street, ran to only send to our Lord doctor a letter, which I you worried at any moment with the
greatest pleasure would. "

= Dr. = Zeunemann sighed. "You are never Travelled," he began again, "since Mrs. Swieter last
year became ill and was in bed? "

"No," said Ursula, "although it has offered me many times and yes I also knew that Miss Schwertfeger
happy as long as you have lived with, and that they, too, a nurse could have taken. But the
but the situation would not know as I do, and if I am also sorry not to see my mother for so long,
I've just said: the Woman has not leave for nineteen years, I also leave them. Rest would I was
not in the home, and I think I would find no peace in the grave,
if I poor, sick worm had left alone.

"

Ursula's loud voice was uncertain, and she passed her a handkerchief over his face.

The Chairman waited a bit and then invited them to the death of the woman Swieter, as far as
she could remember, from start to describe to the end.

"Especially in the day," Ursula began, "I had suspected nothing wrong. The night was in fact have
been very wrong, I heard her groan ran through probably five times and asked whether I Dentists
should take, but she said, 'No, help me not yet,' and she sent me gone too, because I made it
only harder. Because when I was there, she said she would control himself.

Towards morning I slept really, because four clock I've heard it beat, but five any more, and woke
me up at seven of the chimney sweep, the ringing the bell.

I was angry, that he rang so loud and ran to the door and said that was not kind, so unexpectedly,
to come down he had to sign the day before, and now I would take him even less, I liked the
impudent fellow suffering that is not already. I thought my mistress would perhaps also recently
fallen asleep and awakened again, and she rang me already and asked who was there. I said
the chimney-sweep, and that I cursed him and again would have sent away, and she laughed and said
it had nothing to say, they would again asleep, she was now quite well. She did indeed look as
if she had fever, but it remained calm with her, and as I looked in ten clock again, it was
quite still there, and her hair fell over his face half. I went out quietly and hurried as well
as I could, and when I came back, I looked in again quietly, and there she was with open eyes and smiled
as peaceful and said, 'Are you there, Urselchen, I am quite well, I have no pain anymore. " She
looked really quite good, although they had deep shadow as broad black bands under the eyes,
and as I looked at it as, she came to me strangely and I said: '. Ma'am look so mysterious'
My soul thought but not that the secret was death, because otherwise I would not have said
yes. "

"What she replied," asked the chairman.

She smiled even happier than before and said: 'The secret is that
our Mingo me has visited.

" Mingo was our child who has died, and we called the Mingo because
We had actually intended to expect a boy.

"

"So she had dreamed of her dead child," said the chairman. "Telling
them You like? "

"Of course," said Ursula, "if she had dreamed of
our Mingo, she said the whole Day of it. It came in an open car with
beautiful black horses, and on sat in the back seat, as he just sat
between his parents. Quite straight and proud had It sat there with
her and the little hand waving, that they should sit with him, and
suddenly it was not a car have been more, but a kind of carousel or
swing, and was flown to a beautiful music ever higher and higher.
She felt as if the swing would be demolished, and how she was afraid
our Mingo said, quite seriously: 'Holding only up to me! " Furthermore,
they had to laugh that the tiny creature of his mother a post wanted
to be, and woke up.

Between the cooking, I always went back in and
talked with her about our Mingo, and I brought her lunch and sat next
to her and talked to her, to properly , Namely because they eat only
sipped at all. 'Oh, Urselchen, let me just, I 'm not hungry now, 'she
said,' certainly comes our beggars, who will be happy if he gets so
much. " Because it was Thursday, and on Thursday was mostly an old
man who said it would be all over the road not such a good cook, as
I was, and so we had always all sorts of fun together. By saying this,
it also rang at the door, it was not our beggars, but another, like
a Slovak, he looked like the mousetraps . Sell I had hardly opened
it, as my lady rang so strong that I am duly drove through the bone,
and as I ran along, she said, whether it was the doctor. 'Keep,' said
I, 'by the time the doctor is not, it's a beggar. " 'Then it's good,'
she said, I wanted to tell you is that you let in the doctor not to
me today. I'm tired to be torturing me. You can tell him that I would
have had a bad night and sleeping. '"

"Is not you noticed," asked
the chairman.

"No," said Ursula amazed, "there is nothing remarkable
in it. I sometimes had to the doctor sent away on some pretext, for
example, when I, just a little Exciting read. "

"Have you read to
this day," asked the chairman.

Ursula shook her head sadly. "Therefore
it is not come," she said. "After I had made my kitchen, like all
days, I asked her if I should read it, or if she wants that Miss would
Schwertfeger.
The judges quick to understand the loss of trade after vainly trying to induce the litigants
to new efforts, would gently and suggestively push under their hands a pair of dice boxes or
a pack of cards and the dispute would sometimes end upon the throw of a die or the turn of a card.

The reason that these court cafés have not long remained in vogue, was that all actual litigants
soon became so sophisticated as they realized the enormity of the position and how unreasonable
their conduct seemed to the average man. Public sentiment was naturally against such a waste
of time and real performers became scarce. Man, Their
cause is not as secure as you think. The material in Bernburg has undoubtedly Ambush, with
whom he wants to surprise us, so be careful! "

"But, yes," said Deruga a little impatient.

"You keep your head in all cases, and on my you no longer need to lie than to me. "
Now the doors were flying at the back to the room, and the chairman
of the court, High Court Judge = Dr. = Zeunemann entered, which was
followed by the two assessors and the prosecutor. 

"No, no," said the professor, the "would not be a true expression. He shared my scientific Interests do not,
and I'm hovering and Swaying to the depths, the playing of Hypotheses and paradoxes, in the
delirium impossible not given. This State Constabulary in its
romantic career has hunted down crime, made raids into "Black Hand" strongholds, protected
lives and property from mob violence, and always risen to every emergency where nerve and swift
action are required. It's your fault that the preliminary investigation took so long added.
I take this opportunity to make you a serious suspension. Follow apparently to stall the principle
that the Court of inaccuracies and oddities and mislead. They thus aggravate your situation, without
reaching your purpose. The investigation takes its safe passage, despite all stones that you throw on
their way. They are under a serious accusation and would do better, instead of generating moments
against you by unruly and to reinforce unbridled behavior, by the Court and the gentlemen of the jury
sincerity to support them in their thorny work and take for themselves.
 I say then, that this circumstance you
moved to action? I'm just saying you have to consider the possibility that this circumstance
participated.

"

Deruga let the knife fall to the table and leaned wearily back
in his chair.