SCHILLER'S PHILOSOPHICAL LETTERS.

By Frederich Schiller

CONTENTS:

    PREFATORY REMARKS
    THEOSOPHY OF JULIUS
    ON THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE ANIMAL AND THE SPIRITUAL NATURE IN MAN
    PHYSICAL CONNECTION
    PHILOSOPHICAL CONNECTION

PREFATORY REMARKS.

The reason passes, like the heart, through certain epochs and transitions, but its development
is not so often portrayed. Men seem to have been satisfied with unfolding the passions in their
extremes, their aberration, and their results, without considering how closely they are bound
up with the intellectual constitution of the individual. Degeneracy in morals roots in a one-sided
and wavering philosophy, doubly dangerous, because it blinds the beclouded intellect with an
appearance of correctness, truth, and conviction, which places it less under the restraining
influence of man's instinctive moral sense. On the other hand, an enlightened understanding
ennobles the feelings,--the heart must be formed by the head.

The present age has witnessed an extraordinary increase of a thinking public, by the facilities
afforded to the diffusion of reading; the former happy resignation to ignorance begins to make
way for a state of half-enlightenment, and few persons are willing to remain in the condition
in which their birth has placed then. Under these circumstances it may not be unprofitable
to call attention to certain periods of the awakening and progress of the reason, to place
in their proper light certain truths and errors, closely connected with morals, and calculated
to be a source of happiness or misery, and, at all events, to point out the hidden shoals on
which the reason of man has so often suffered shipwreck. Rarely do we arrive at the summit
of truth without running into extremes; we have frequently to exhaust the part of error, and
even of folly, before we work our way up to the noble goal of tranquil wisdom.

Some friends, inspired by an equal love of truth and moral beauty, who have arrived at the
same conviction by different roads, and who view with serener eye the ground over which they
have travelled, have thought that it might be profitable to present a few of these resolutions
and epochs of thought. They propose to represent these and certain excesses of the inquiring
reason in the form of two young men, of unequal character, engaged in epistolary correspondence.
The following letters are the beginning of this essay.

The opinions that are offered in these letters can only be true and false relatively, and in
the form in which the world is mirrored in the soul of the correspondent, and of him only.
But the course of the correspondence will show that the one-sided, often exaggerated and contradictory
opinions at length issue in a general, purified, and well-established truth.

Scepticism and free-thinking are the feverish paroxysms of the human mind, and must needs at
length confirm the health of well-organized souls by the unnatural convulsion which they occasion.
In proportion to the dazzling and seducing nature of error will be the greatness of the triumphs
of truth: the demand for conviction and firm belief will be strong and pressing in proportion
to the torment occasioned by the pangs of doubt. But doubt was necessary to elicit these errors;
the knowledge of the disease had to precede its cure. Truth suffers no loss if a vehement youth
fails in finding it, in the same way that virtue and religion suffer no detriment if a criminal
denies them.

It was necessary to offer these prefatory remarks to throw a proper light on the point of view
from which the following correspondence has to be read and judged.

LETTER I.

Julius to Raphael.                  October.

You are gone, Raphael--and the beauty of nature departs: the sere and yellow leaves fall from
the trees, while a thick autumn fog hangs suspended like a bier over the lifeless fields. Solitary,
I wander through the melancholy country. I call aloud your name, and am irritated that my Raphael
does not answer me.

I had received your last embrace. The mournful sound of the carriage wheels that bore you away
had at length died upon my ear. In happier moments I had just succeeded in raising a tumulus
over the joys of the past, but now again you stand up before me, as your departed spirit, in
these regions, and you accompany me to each favorite haunt and pleasant walk. These rocks I
have climbed by your side: by your side have my eyes wandered over this immense landscape.
In the dark sanctuary of this beech-grove we first conceived the bold ideal of our friendship.
It was here that we unfolded the genealogical tree of the soul, and that we found that Julius
was so closely related to Raphael. Not a spring, not a thicket, or a hill exists in this region
where some memory of departed happiness does not come to destroy my repose. All things combine
to prevent my recovery. Wherever I go, I repeat the painful scene of our separation.

What have you done to me, Raphael? What am I become? Man of dangerous power! would that I had
never known or never lost you! Hasten back; come on the wings of friendship, or the tender
plant, your nursling, shall have perished. How could you, endowed with such tender feelings,
venture to leave the work you had begun, but still so incomplete. The foundations that your
proud wisdom tried to establish in my brain and heart are tottering; all the splendid palaces
which you erected are crumbling, and the worm crushed to earth is writhing under the ruins.

Happy, heavenly time, when I groped through life, with bandaged eyes, like a drunken man,--when
all my knowledge and my wishes were confined to the narrow horizon of my childhood's teachings!
Blessed time, when a cheerful sunset raised no higher aspiration in my soul than the wish of
a fine day on the morrow; when nothing reminded me of the world save the newspaper; nothing
spoke of eternity save the passing bell; only ghost-stories brought to mind the thought of
death and judgment; when I trembled at the thought of the devil, and was proportionately drawn
to the Godhead! I felt and was happy. Raphael has taught me to think I am on the way to regret
that I was ever created.

Creation? No, that is only a sound lacking all meaning, which my reason cannot receive. There
was a time when I knew nothing, when no one knew me: accordingly, it is usual to say, I was
not. That time is past: therefore it is usual to say that I was created. But also of the millions
who existed centuries ago nothing more is now known, and yet men are wont to say, they are.
On what do we found the right to grant the beginning and to deny the end? It is assumed that
the cessation of thinking beings contradicts Infinite Goodness. Did, then, Infinite Goodness
cone first into being at the creation of the world? If there was a period when there were no
spirits, Infinite Goodness must have been imperative for a whole eternity. If the fabric of
the universe is a perfection of the Creator, He, therefore, lacked a perfection before the
creation of the world. But an assumption like this contradicts the idea of perfect goodness,
therefore there is no creation. To what have I arrived, Raphael? Terrible fallacy of my conclusions!
I give up the Creator as soon as I believe in a God. Wherefore do I require a God, if I suffice
without the Creator?

