The lightest of the line of vessels was the one in which the watchmen had been gambling. It
happened that this, with the gallivat next to it, had come into harbor late in the evening
from a short scouting cruise, and the sweeps used by their crews had not been carried on shore,
as the custom was. The larger vessel had fifty of these sweeps, the smaller thirty. If pursuit
was to be checked it was essential that none of them should be left in the enemy's hands, and
the work of carrying the fifty from the larger to the smaller vessel took some time.

There was no longer the same need for quietness of movement. So long as any great noise and
bustle was avoided, the sentinels on the walls of the fort would only suppose, if sounds reached
their ears, that the watch on board were securing the gallivats at their moorings.

When the sweeps had all been transferred Desmond ordered the prisoners to be brought from Angria's
cabin to the smaller vessel. The lashings of their feet were cut in turn; each man was carefully
searched, deprived of all weapons, and escorted from the one vessel to the other, his feet
being then securely bound as before.

On board the smallest gallivat were now Desmond, five of his companions, and eleven helpless
Marathas. He had just directed one of the Biluchis to cast  loose  the  lashings  between 
the  vessels,  and was already congratulating himself that the main difficulties of his venture
were past, when he suddenly heard shouts from the direction of the fort. Immediately afterwards
the deep notes of the huge gong kept in Angria's courtyard boomed and reverberated across the
harbor, echoed at brief intervals by the strident clanging of several smaller gongs in the town.

Barely had the first sound reached his ears when he saw a light flash forth from the outermost
bastion; to the left of it appeared a second; and soon, along the whole face of the fort, in
the dockyard, in the town, innumerable lights dotted the blackness, some stationary, others
moving this way and that. Now cries were heard from all sides, growing in volume until the
sound was as of some gigantic hornet's nest awakened into angry activity. To the clangor of
gongs was added the blare of trumpets, and from the walls of the fort and palace, from the
hill beyond, from every cliff along the shore, echoed and re-echoed an immense and furious din.

For  a  few  seconds  Desmond  stood as if fascinated, watching the transformation which the
hundreds of twinkling lights had caused. Then he pulled himself together, and with a word to
the Biluchi who had loosed the lashings, bidding him hold on to the next gallivat, he sprang
to the side of this vessel, and hurried towards Angria's. Fuzl Khan had not returned; Desmond
almost feared that some mishap had befallen the man.

Reaching the center vessel, he peered down the hatchway, but started back as  a  gust  of acrid
smoke struck him from below. He called to the Gujarati. There was no response. For an instant
he stood in hesitation; had the man been overcome by the suffocating fumes filling the hold?
But just as, with the instinct of rescue, he was about to lower himself into the depths, he
heard a low hail from the vessel at the end of the line nearest the shore. A moment afterwards
Fuzl Khan came stumbling towards him.

"I have fired another gallivat, sahib," he said, his voice ringing with fierce exultation.

"Well done, Fuzl Khan," said Desmond. "Now we must be off. See, there are torches coming down
towards the jetty."

The two sprang across the intervening vessel, a dense cloud of smoke following them from the
hatchway of Angria's gallivat. Reaching the outermost of the line, Desmond gave the word, the
anchor was slipped, the two Biluchis pressed with all their force against the adjacent vessel,
and the gallivat moved slowly out. Desmond ran to the helm, and the Gujarati with his five
companions seizing each upon one of the long sweeps, they dropped their blades into the water
and began to pull.

Desmond was all a-tingle with excitement and determination. The shouts from the shore were
nearer; the lights were brighter; for all he knew, the whole garrison and population were gathering.
They had guessed that an escape was being attempted by sea. Even now perhaps boats were setting
off, bringing rowers to man the gallivats, and oars to send them in pursuit.

If they should reach the vessels before the middle one had burst into flame, he felt that his
chances of getting away were small indeed. When would the flame appear? It might check the
pursuers, throw them into consternation, confuse and delay the pursuit. Would the longed-for
blaze never show itself? And how slowly his gallivat was moving! The rowers were bending to
their work with a will, but six men are but a poor crew for a vessel of a hundred tons, and
the slow progress it was making was in fact due more to the still ebbing tide than to the frantic
efforts of the oarsmen. The wind was contrary; it would be useless to hoist the sail. At this
rate they would be half an hour or more in reaching the three grabs anchored nearer the mouth
of the harbor. The willing rowers on their benches could not know how slowly the vessel was
moving, but it was painfully clear to Desmond at the helm; relative to the lights on shore
the gallivat seemed scarcely to move at all.

He called to Fuzl Khan, who left his oar and hurried aft.

"We must make more speed, Fuzl Khan. Release the prisoners' hands; keep their  feet tied, and
place them among our party. Don't take an oar yourself: stand over them ready to strike down
any man who mutinies."

The Gujarati grunted and hurried away. Assisted by Surendra Nath, who, being his companion
on the rowing bench, had perforce dropped his oar, he soon had the prisoners in position. Urging
them with terrible threats and fierce imprecations, he forced them to ply their oars with long
steady strokes.  The  way on the gallivat increased. There was not a great distance now to
be covered, it was unnecessary to husband their strength, and with still more furious menaces
Fuzl Khan got out of the sturdy Marathas all the energy of which they were capable. The escaped
prisoners needed no spur; they were working with might and main, for dear life.

Desmond had to steer by guesswork and such landmarks as were afforded by the lights on shore.
He peered anxiously ahead, hoping to see the dim shapes of the three grabs; but this was at
present impossible, since they lay between him and the seaward extremity of the fort, where
lights had not yet appeared. Looking back he saw a number of torches flitting along the shore;
and now two or three dark objects, no doubt boats, were moving from the farther side of the
jetty towards the gallivats. At the same moment  he  caught  sight  of these he saw at last,
rising from the gallivats, the thin tongue of flame he had so long expected.

But now that it had come at last, showing that the work on board had been thorough, he almost
regretted it, for it was instantly seen from the shore and greeted by a babel of yells caught
up in different parts of the town and fort. As at a signal the torches no longer flickered
hither and thither aimlessly, but all took the same direction towards the jetty. The hunt was up!

Glancing round, Desmond suddenly gave the order to cease rowing, and putting the helm hard
down just avoided crashing into a dark object ahead. The sweeps grated against the side of
what proved to be one of the grabs for which he had been looking. A voice from its deck hailed him.

"Take care! Where are you going? Who are you?"

Desmond called up the serang. He dare not reply himself, lest his accent should betray him.

