Fifty years ago Newman was cutting and polishing his diamond scheme of legislative decentralization
till its facets flashed to the lighted intellects of the world a thousand messages--a thousand
clear-cut suggestions for the welfare of his country and the betterment of its legislation,
as he firmly believed. He was never tired of urging it on the notice of his fellow men, never
tired of pleading for it as a solution of many social difficulties, as a setting of many dislocations
of our local systems. Perhaps there was no more earnest apostle of decentralization than was
Francis Newman. But at the same time, to be fair to him, it should be said that, first, he
threw light upon the old paths, and, secondly, showed where modern obstructions lay which seemed
to him to hinder true progress. At all costs the fact must be kept well in view, he believed,
that the paths were made for the men, not the men for the paths --a fact which is not always
so well remembered as it should be to-day. Fifty years ago he published an article in Fraser's
Magazine on "Functions of an Upper House of Parliament." Eight years later he gave a brilliant
lecture [Footnote: In the Athenaeum, Manchester.] on "Reorganizations of English Institutions."
In this last he touched only briefly upon the former subject because of a notice by the metaphysical
railings of his lecture that he was "to keep to the path," and not speak trenchantly on the
question of the Upper House, because it would not have found an appreciative audience there!

To begin, however, first upon the article which came out in 1867. He affirmed that the House
of Lords does, by its veto, exercise a very powerful, though unseen, influence over the administration
of the country. He insisted on the urgent need of its becoming "a real, supreme, judicial court
for maintaining the rights of the princes of India, and an authoritative expounder of the treaties
which have passed between us and them." It will be seen why this step is called for when we
recall the fact that in 1833 the Home Government signed a treaty in which it was definitely
agreed that the professions in India should be open to the natives--a promise which has never
been kept.

Newman goes on to say, "Until India can have its own Parliament, it needs to find in England
such protection as only our own Upper House can give it." He places before us the possibility
of economizing the time--to-day so terribly overcrowded--of the House of Commons by letting
domestic legislation, "which is in no immediate relation to executive necessities," proceed
from the Upper House. That in that House it could be so adapted and so regulated, that when
it came back finally to the House of Commons no otherwise inevitable delay need occur. Thus
"the Commons would have for their chief business Bills connected with immediate administrative
exigencies, and private Bills would be cast upon local legislatures" (a measure for which he
was, as we know, constantly pleading). He reminds us that the Roman executive was successful
and prompt in the methods at which they aimed, because "the Senate guided and controlled it,
prescribed the policy and required the execution."

In his "Reorganization of English Institutions" he insists very strongly on the great need
of such a scheme of decentralization as the formation of Provincial Chambers--in other words,
the dividing the country into local government centres which should send delegates, chosen
delegates of tried men, "virtually its ambassadors to Parliament, with instructions and a proper
salary, for a three years' term; but reserving the power to recall any delegate earlier by
a two-thirds vote, and to replace him, like an ambassador, by a successor." Now, here comes
in Newman's proposed drastic change--a change which, in the opinion of those of us who have
seen at close focus the evils of our present system of canvassing for votes, could not be condemned
as a change for the worse.

For each delegate sent up to Parliament "would be elected without candidacy and without expense
... confusion and intrigue would be lessened.... There would be no convulsive interruptions
of public business." Many questions very naturally rise in our minds when we fairly face this
plan. Newman feels so confident, besides, that it would "settle our harassing Irish difficulties."

The "old institutions of the shires are known only to students of ancient law," says Mr. Toulmin
Smith, one of the greatest authorities of his country's old records, documents, etc. "They
have been overridden by justices of the peace, county lieutenants, and other functionaries....
From this general decay of local institutions centralization has grown up."

From this "decay of local institutions," Newman points to what he designates as the "Trades'
Union"--the Cabinet (the "Secret Diplomacy"), which has, he declares, superseded the old Privy
Council.

"Since William III became king, parliaments of Scotland and Ireland have been annihilated,
and no subsidiary organs have replaced them.... Our population is four times as great as William
III knew it; yet the people are more than ever divorced from the soil and cramped into town...."
Now, "Parliament is too busy for domestic local reforms; it has to control the action of the
whole Executive Government, Central and Local.... It has sole right to direct public taxation....
It has to control the action of the ministry towards foreign Powers.... It has a similar function
towards colonies ... and the Army and the Navy.... It is responsible for all India" (population
then two hundred and forty millions).... "It is the only court of appeal to Indian princes
who believe themselves wronged" (by the king's representatives).... "No other authority can
repeal bad laws, or enact new laws for the general public." But were we to return to the "legislative
courts of our shires," Newman protests, which existed before our present systems of Parliament,
all the inevitable delays and congestions which now occur to prevent the dealing with and passing
of imperatively necessary reforms would be done away with in toto.

Long ago Lord Russell said that for any great measure a ministry needs "a popular gale to carry
the ship of State over the bar." "Hence all our reforms, working against a stiff current, sail
over the bar fifty or one hundred years too late."

This, then, briefly stated, was Francis Newman's plan of dealing with the accumulation of business,
etc., which beset the House of Commons as matters stand at present.

The whole of Great Britain, he urged, should be divided in provincial chambers for local legislation.
He proposed ten for England, four for Ireland, two for Scotland, and one for Wales.

These local powers "must be to the central like planets round a sun.... All unforeseen business
would fall to the central power, which in all cases would undertake: public defence, communications
with foreign Powers, principal highways, shores and harbours, Crown lands, national money and
weights, and national taxes.... Our impending Church and State question will be solved in this
island, with least convulsion, if local variety of sentiment be allowed free play." [Footnote:
Perhaps then we should be rid of the anomaly which allows a Prime Minister, of whatever religious
denomination, to choose Bishops for the Anglican Church.] Newman proceeds thus to describe
further his suggestions with regard to the working of the provincial courts: "Each electoral
district to send one member to the Provincial Chamber; household franchise, of course, would
be the rule, and I trust women householders would not be arbitrarily excluded." They would
deal directly, and on the spot, with local pauperism in the provincial courts. That, in itself,
would be one great gain. For pauperism cannot effectively be dealt with except by local legislation.
Some system such as Ruskin's, with powerful local legislation, could not fail to end the trouble
which is at the present moment making a tremendous drain on the pockets of the law-abiding
citizen of this country, in that system of workhouses, which besides being subversive of the
very idea of home-life amongst our poor, degrades the non-worker, and rankles as a lasting
shame in the hearts of those whom misfortune alone has driven to that last resource of the
unfortunate. Were one able to follow the example set us, among cities, by Leipsic (where the
word pauperism is absolutely non- existent), we should have effectually turned the corner out
of the ill- kept vagrant road into which Henry VIII first led us, when "pauperism" began to
be a sore in the midst of England's healthy body of citizens. Now, it is a self-evident fact
that "pauperism," which is a living drag on our social wheel, can not be dealt with other than
by rigorous local government. Cases could then be dealt with personally; the whole area would
not be too gigantic for this; but, of course, it is a moral impossibility to generalize in
dealing with this subject.

After all, this is not, as Francis Newman insists, a new departure in any way. He points to
other countries to show that as a fact, centralization has been gradually establishing itself
in England, though in other times decentralization was a very potent force in our midst, and
a success.

In 1875, Newman quotes the following countries as regards their local legislatures: "Look ...
at Switzerland. Environed by ambitious neighbours far superior in power, her institutions have
well stood the severe trial of time. She has her Central Diet and Ministry, vigorous enough;
but also in her several cantons she has local legislatures, each with well-trained soldiers,
simply because every man is bound to learn the use of arms, as Englishmen used to be; therefore
they need no standing army.... Italy also has local legislatures which belonged to independent
States--Sicily, Naples, Piedmont, Tuscany, and so on--besides her National Parliament.... In
Hungary notoriously the national spirit has been maintained for three centuries and a half
... solely by the independent energy of the local institutions.... The seven united provinces
of Holland similarly prove the vitality of freedom and good order when free local power is
combined with a strong centre.... And on a far greater scale we have... an illustrious example
in the United States--a mighty monarchy and a mighty republic.... The American Union started
in that advanced stage. It is a cluster of some thirty-seven States, each with its own legislature,
for all which, and for the outlying territories, the Federal Parliament also legislates. Contrast
their condition with ours. Only of late has their population outrun ours. They have thirty-eight
legislative systems: we have one only. Surely our system is a barbarous simplicity. France
... goes beyond us. Nay, our Indian centralization is worse still. No virtue, no wisdom in
rulers can make up when the defect of organs lays on them enormous duties."

Finally, Newman urges for provincial chambers that they should be on the "scale of petty kingdoms,"
and not of mere town populations. "All parts and ranks of the local community are then forced
to take interest in local concerns. Each province becomes a normal school for Parliament, and
a ladder by which all high talent of poor men may rise."

SHOULD NOT THE CONSENT OF THE NATION BE OBTAINED BEFORE MAKING WAR?

This was a question constantly in Newman's mind. That, and the answer.

Everyone is doubtless aware that he wrote a very great deal upon the subject, and spoke a great
deal also. In the third volume of the Miscellanies he has four or five articles on this great
question. The first was printed in 1859, the second in 1860, the third 1871, and the fourth
1877. Then in "Europe of the Near Future" (1871) he treats it at greater scope, chiefly in
regard to the Franco-German War. In "Deliberations before War" (1859) Newman takes the two
points of view from which the question of war is as a rule regarded--the Moral and the International.
The first considers if a war is a just one or no, and considers the prosecutor of an unjust
war as neither more nor less than a robber. The International (or second) "looks only to the
ostensible marks which make a war 'lawful'--that is to say, 'regular.'" As Newman very rightly
says, however, there is a third point of view, which he calls the "National." I shall quote
his words regarding this third view.

I cannot forbear saying that at the present moment of writing this last is impossible, for
those who often suffer most from a war--at any rate longest--are the women, and there is no
legitimate representation for this large body of the community. Thus, even if the men of the
nation could "plead against" a war, the women would have no voice.

Newman urges that there are many among us who firmly believe that a time is coming when no
destructive weapons will be made, and "universal peace shall reign." These are strong words,
but they are not too strong, for, looked at by any thoughtful man or woman, war is an anomaly.
It proves nothing by reason; it simply acts by brute force, and by sheer superior strength
the victor, at the sword's point, drives defeat down the throat of the defeated. But the arbitrary
destruction of thousands of men on each side who slay each other at the word of command (often
for no reason that concerns their own welfare, but only on account of some political quarrel),
is, from the point of view of civilization, of morality, of humanity, without reasonable defence.
It throws civilization, land development, education back incalculably. Indeed, when one regards
the matter au fond, one sees that nothing could hinder the true civilization, the true humanity,
more than does war. It is barbaric; there is no other word for it. It is the great flaw that
runs throughout the whole garment of humanity.

Newman reminds us that it is only within very recent years "that the atrocious system of paying
head money to soldiers and sailors for the numbers they kill, was abolished by us."

John Stuart Mill very rightly said "that our force ought to be as strong as possible for defence
and as weak as might be for offence," only that it is so very difficult sometimes to tell which
is which.

In the Ethics of War, Newman argues that "there is nothing more fundamental to civilized warfare
than that no war shall be commenced without a previous statement of grievances, and demand
of redress--a demand made to the Sovereign himself; and that only after he has refused redress,
and when in consequence war has been solemnly declared, with its motives and aim, shall hostilities
be begun. In dealing with great Powers we anxiously observe these forms.... But it is our Asiatic
wars which have brought out the formidable fact that the Cabinets claim to discard the authority
of Parliament altogether.... There is no more fundamental principle of freedom ... than that
no nation shall be dragged into a war by its executive, against its will and judgment.... Nay,
if even a majority of every class in the nation desired war, yet they have no right to enter
into it without first hearing what the minority has to say on the other side. This is the essential
meaning of deliberative institutions."

Mr. Toulmin Smith, whose weighty words bring to bear on the subject the witness of an England
of medieval days, says that in the fourteenth century it was a positive rule that "consent
of the Great Council, and afterwards of the Parliament, was necessary to a war or to a treaty."
In his Parliamentary Remembrances he gives many precedents, both from the histories of England
and Scotland, showing that no peace was made, no war was made, without Parliament being summoned.
Henry V, he says, would not enter "matters of foreign embroilment" (war with France, for instance)
without the consent of Parliament; and when the French king wished for peace, Henry replied
that peace needed to "be allowed, accepted, and approved by the three Estates of each kingdom."
The same process was gone through with regard to the French king and his Estates of France.
Newman quotes Rome, whose citizens went through a long formality before making any war, the
King and Senate "consulting the College of Heralds for erudite instructions as to minute ceremonies.
For perhaps four centuries the discipline of the army was admirable; its decline began from
the day when a general (Gen. Manlius) first took upon himself to make war at his own judgment,
trusting to obtain a bill of indemnity."

Livy tries to force on us the belief that the Romans were never aggressive; that they only
conquered the world in self-defence. And it is true that here would come in difficulties in
the way of carrying out John Stuart Mill's obiter dictum as regards wars of defence and of
offence, for many plausible reasons have been constantly brought forward for aggressive wars:
to take one only, it is not always easy to say what is "defence" and what "offence." One may
see some other country assuming a warlike attitude towards ourselves, and it might very possibly
be allowed to come within the bounds of the word "defence" if we were prepared to strike the
initial blow before our enemy--to all intents and purposes, save for the actual throwing of
the glove--were fully prepared as to armaments, etc. It is well known how earnestly Richard
Cobden, the Manchester Apostle of Free Trade, was one of the most prominent champions of peace;
he who, for championing the cause of the Abolition of corn duties for the sake of his poorer
countrymen, when he and others pushed forward the "Anti-Corn Law League" (which was passed
in 1846), lost all his own private funds, and his business was ruined, simply because his time
was all given not to his own affairs, but to the service of his country. Mr. Cobden, as Newman
reminds us, "was entirely convinced that European wars could be stopped by a general agreement
to abide by arbitration." Indeed, he prevailed on the Ministers of his day so far that, when
the Russian War ended in 1856, "Lord Clarendon, in the name of England, initiated some important
clauses, of which one avowed that the Powers who signed the treaty would never thenceforward
undertake war without first attempting to stay and supersede it by arbitration. England, France,
Russia, Sardinia, and Turkey all signed this treaty, yet in a very few years the solemn promise
proved itself to be mere wind." He goes on say, "When passions are at work, superior might,
not unarmed arbitration, is needed to control them."

Cobden always declared that no one need fear Russia's strength because of her climate, her
vast wildernesses, her frozen seas, her great unwieldiness. It is seen, therefore, that the
sort of arbitration planned out by Cobden did not work. It must, according to Newman, be an
armed one. It is clear that it is not possible to agree in toto with the Quaker method of opposing
war, and the most thoughtful Quakers will hardly urge it perhaps to-day. War, for defence of
one's country, is a present necessity. What, then, are Francis Newman's proposed remedies?
For in the beginning of this chapter I stated that he, very definitely, had his answer to the
great question as regards the nation: its veto or agreement, whenever war is proposed. First
of all, before giving these however, let us look for a moment at the plan pursued in such case
in modern England. The recent [Footnote: He is writing in 1859.] overthrow of the East India
Company has swept away all the shams which have hidden from England that the Ministry in Downing
Street worked the Indian puppet.... Parliament should claim that public debate shall precede
all voluntary hostilities, small or great ... to protest in the most solemn way that henceforth
no blow in war shall be struck until the voice of Parliament has permitted and commanded it."

Then, in Newman's article "On the War Power," he goes on to say: "In regard to the difficulties
as regards arbitration, and also as regards the voice of the people being made a sine qua non,
whenever a proposal for war emanates from the powers that be: When an evil is undeniable, serious,
unjust in principle ... (referring to secret diplomacy), a remedy must exist. Where there is
a will there is a way: nay, many ways."

Then he declares that these (following) measures have commended themselves to him. The full
discussion in Parliament by representatives of the people; the determination that nothing shall
be settled by secret diplomacy as regards war until the whole matter has been thoroughly threshed
out. In more than a few ways, Vox populi, vox Dei is still true.

Next he puts before us the advisability of an armed arbitration.

"If we look to a great central European Power as having for one of its functions to repress
wars and enforce arbitration, it is evident that a large increase of force is necessary beyond
all that is at present in prospect. If wars voluntarily taken up for noble objects must be
sustained out of spare energy, much more does the place of that Power which is to forbid wars
require a great superfluity of energy. To be able to do this within the limits of a great federation
is in itself a mighty achievement." [Footnote: Europe in the Near Future, F. W. Newman.] And
again: "Apparently the only way in which European wars can be suppressed is by the successive
agglomeration of free men, living under and retaining their separate institutions, into powers
which have no interest in war, but much interest in peace; until unions reach such a magnitude
as to be able to forbid wars of cupidity, and offer a high tribunal for the redress of international
grievances.... If all parts of a mighty union have their proportionate weight in questions
of war and peace, no partial and vicious expediency can actuate them in common. Justice alone
is the universal good which can unite their desires and efforts, or make them collectively
willing to undergo sacrifice.... The wider the federation, the more benign its aspect on the
whole world without, especially if the populations absorbed into it are heterogeneous in character,
in pursuit, and in cultivation.... A federation resting on strict justice, conceding local
freedom, but suppressing local wars and uniting its military force for national defence, is
economic of military expenditure in time of peace in proportion to the magnitude of the populations
federated."

CHAPTER XIV

DECENTRALIZATION AND LAND REFORM

"If law be centralized, it always lingers far behind men's needs." This obiter dictum of Francis
Newman's, spoken nearly sixty years ago, strikes one as more true to-day even than when he
originally gave voice to it. For if there is one thing truer than another, it is that half
the wrongs to which we are heir to-day, are due to centralization. This may be due in part,
no doubt, to the enormous increase of population; but certainly one overwhelming reason is
that class with class has lost in very great measure all sense of cooperation, all sense of
sympathy, all sense of their real intimate connection and relationship with each other. Instead
of provincial legislature, we have our one parliamentary centre, instead of treating our own
local matters ourselves, we hale them up before a central bureaucracy--a bureaucracy already
so overcrowded with business that it is absolutely and practically unable to deal with all
the questions which come up for settlement. So that instead of imperative local matters being
dealt with first hand, private bill after private bill swarms through the doors of Parliament,
and it becomes a veritable impossibility to go into detail with respect to the pros and cons
which they bear upon their pages, much less grasp the whole drift of the question with justice
in its entirety.

Far wiser was the old system of provincial legislature, in which the people were really represented,
a system in which personality counted for much and men were brought into familiar and friendly
relations with each other, not kept apart by the rubicon of red-tapeism, and liable to have
the door of the Closure slammed in their faces at some critical juncture of discussion, and
the subject shelved. It is true that since Francis Newman's day we may have made some effort
after local councils, but it is also true that these local councils do not really bring class
and class together. Each class is by no means adequately represented in them, nor is it the
council's object that this should be the case. To compare the England of to-day--the agricultural
England, at any rate--with the England of the past, brings all true thinkers to the same conclusion,
that class demarcations are as insistent, as absolute as ever they were, even in the culminating
early Victorian days. [Footnote: "We must mainly refer our practical evils to the demoralization
of the State which the restoration of the Stuarts caused.... Then began the estrangement of
the Commonalty from the Church of the aristocracy."--Francis Newman.] One has but to go abroad
to be convinced how "classy" we are as a nation, for class prejudices and insularity are produced
by provincial England, and indigenous to the soil, and alas! this crop never fails. There are,
unfortunately, no lean years. There are, it is true, plenty of organizations in which the more
fortunate class tries to ameliorate the lot of the less fortunate one, plenty of organizations
in which the more cultured class tries--often devotes its whole life to this trying--to make
better conditions for the less cultured one, and all honour and praise is due to self-denying
work of the kind, but it is not enough. The truest, purest Christian socialism [Footnote: I
use the word in its truest ancient sense.] requires that helper and helped meet on absolutely
equal ground; that there is banished that indescribable stalking figure which follows close
in the wake of most meetings between rich and poor in England, the Gentleman-hood (or Lady-hood,
for I have seen that often quite as insistently in evidence) of the class which, so to speak,
"stoops to conquer," the limitations of the less fortunate classes, in its work for the people.

I remember coming across the word "gentleman" interpreted in a far different sense in an old
fifteenth-century book. Many words change their meaning with time, but this word has changed
from its fifteenth-century interpretation more than any. The sentence ran thus: "Jesus Christ
was the first Gentleman." Anything further from the original conception of its meaning as set
forward in this sentence than our English idea of what is meant to-day by "gentleman" it would
be difficult to find. For He went among the people as one of themselves, was born among them,
and was educated as they were. There was no hint of patronage, no suggestion of any social
demarcation. He Who was the world's Redeemer was yet a Socialist [Footnote: I cannot but add
here that, in my opinion, the much- abused word "Socialist" has changed in character in the
same way as the word "gentleman," and the modern interpretation is very far from being the
true, admirable, original thing signified.] in the highest and best sense of the term.

We have come far since those days, but we have not come beyond the need to deprive birth and
riches of some of that arbitrary power by which they have assumed more authority than is their
due in the matter of legislation, influence, disposal of land, and economic local conditions
in the provinces.

As regards decentralized government and the "immense importance of local liberties," I cannot
do better than quote first from the preface written by Francis Newman to his lectures on Political
Economy, when he issued them in a printed form in 1851:--

"Of the immense importance of local liberties, and their actual deficiencies among us, I became
fully convinced during six years' residence in Manchester; but it is only from Mr. Toulmin
Smith's works (the most important political work, as to me appears, which the nineteenth century
has produced in England) that I have learnt the immense resources of the Common Law of England,
and that nothing but the arbitrary encroachments of Parliament at this moment hinders a vigorous
local legislation and local government under the fullest local freedom which can be desired."

The lectures themselves, notably the twelfth, are in my opinion a counsel of perfection which
we should do well to follow to-day in very many respects. For instance, he urges very strongly
that "every town in England, and every county, ought to have the feelings of a little State,
as in fact it once had" [the italics are my own]. "Our own history for many centuries shows
that this is quite consistent with the existence of a central power--a Crown Parliament--for
all purposes truly national; and if the action of the central power were strictly limited to
such things, the provinces would, now more than ever, have abundant room for high ambition."
He shows how all organization has been lost in large provincial towns, even though meetings
are held from time to time, and men seem to come together for counsel and combination of ideas;
the only really fixed "moral union" being that narrow tie of family life which does but make
a number of separate entities in the big whole of citizenship. There is no corporate union
which makes each citizen the charge, to all intents and purposes, of his neighbour. Each family
holds together. It rises and falls by itself. It holds to its heart no innate real sense of
responsibility of a wider citizenship. That is lost--undeniably lost.

The question arises naturally: When was this splendid link of "Each for All" broken and mislaid?
For nothing is more imperatively necessary among the ranks of workers to-day.

Mr. Toulmin Smith tells us: "The link which has been broken and mislaid was the "English Guild"
(or "gild," as seems the more correct spelling). He tells us--and it is generally conceded
that he is our great authority on this subject--that as a system of practical and universal
institutions, a English Guilds are older than any kings of England." [Footnote: "They were
associations of those living in the same neighbourhood, who remembered that they had, as neighbours,
common obligations."] And as another authority on medieval life--Dom Gasquet--says: "The oldest
of our ancient laws--those, for example, of Alfred, of Athelstan, and Ina--assume the existence
of guilds to some one of which, as a matter of course, everyone was supposed to belong."

There were of course trade (or handicraft) associations and social guilds. Dom Gasquet describes
thus their object: "Broadly speaking, they were the benefit societies and the provident associations
of the Middle Ages. They undertook towards their members the duties now frequently performed
by burial clubs, by hospitals, by almshouses, and by guardians of the poor." [Footnote: "Poor
laws had no existence in medieval England, yet the peasants did not fear and die of starvation
in old age. The Romans had no poor laws ... until the destruction of small freehold."--Francis
Newman.] "Not infrequently they are found acting for the public good of the community in the
mending of roads and in the repair of bridges.... The very reason of their existence was to
afford mutual aid." [Footnote: Parish Life of Medieval England.] They were in very deed, as
Mr. Toulmin Smith describes them, institutions of "local self-help." And everyone who knows
anything of the subject is aware that they "obviated pauperism, assisted in steadying the price
of labour, and formed a permanent centre." Also it has been proved that they acted as the lever
which effectually made citizenship more together as a whole, bound together by common need
and common responsibilities.

This sense of oneness of interest of "Each for All," then, we have unfortunately as a nation
lost. And with the loss have gone many of the people's rights and privileges both with regard
to local self-government, local liberties, and co-operation.

Now the question arises how are we to recover what was so necessary to the public well-being?
And Francis Newman is ready with an answer.

"To recognize little states in our towns and countries would be the first step of organization;
I believe it would be an easy one.... If each town had full power to tax itself for public
purposes, a thousand civilizing ameliorations would be introduced.... If local institutions
had been kept up in energy, the unhealthy buildings which now exist could never have arisen;
there is at present an Augean stable to cleanse.... Look at the sellers in the street, look
at the cab-drivers and their horses on a rainy day; what can be more barbarous than their exposure?...
Nothing surely is more obvious than that in a city where thirty or forty thousand persons live
all day under the sky, having no power to shelter themselves, there ought to be numerous covered
piazzas, market-places, and sheds for cabriolets. By such means, to save the poor from rheumatism
and inflammations, would be cheaper than to raise their wages, if that were possible, and would
confer far more direct benefit on them than the removing of taxes."

Here is indeed the mind of a modern Hercules in its strong, rational suggestions as to how
this particular "stable" must be swept out. It is a striking illustration of how far we have
come since the days of the medieval guilds, this lack of grasp on our part of the particular
needs of particular sections of the community. For were our local self-government in working
order and thoroughly representative, it is not to be thought of for a moment that such a lack
of shelters and proper appliances for the labouring man and woman would be in such evidence
amongst us as now is the case. For look at England as she is, in respect of unsettled, rainy
and stormy weather: her spells of wintry weather, her spring changes: one day warm, and the
next, constant spells of snow, sleet, and bitter driving gusts of wind. Where do the loafers
of our streets go? Where do the unemployed, hanging about at the street corner in search of
a job, go during some pelting shower which drenches whoever remains to face it in less than
three minutes? The centre of the street, and the streaming pavements clear almost at once,
but where does the "man in the street"-- the woman--the child go? Certainly they do not go
into a shelter put up by Government for their protection, as a rule. There are, in provincial
towns, no shelters sufficiently large to accommodate them.

I have often talked to the inspectors--to take a case in point--of provincial trams. These
men have to wait, to stand about at corners of streets or cross roads great part of the day.
Many of them suffer in no small degree from this constant standing about in all weathers.

Then again, there is no provision made for the drivers of the trams. It would be quite possible
to provide seats for them, as is often done in motor buses, but the same reason holds good
for this not having been thought of, as is in evidence with regard to the lack of street shelters.

There is not sufficient co-operation in the local government. When the guilds died out, no
local arrangements took their place. In other words, the local government, of whatever nature
it is, is not sufficiently representative. The men who work upon the road, day in day out,
have not sufficient opportunity of saying, in open meeting of their fellow citizens, where
their particular trade shoe pinches. It is, as old Sir Thomas More said very truly, the matter
of the rich legislating for the poor, which is at fault.

Here, then, is the remedy suggested by Francis Newman: "The stated meeting of a number of people
in a Ward-mote would make their faces familiar to one another, and give to the richer orders
a distinct acquaintance with a definite portion of the vast community. Out of this ... meeting
for discussion of practical business in a Ward-mote ... would rise numerous other relations."

Here men would meet--men drawn from every class--and could voice their complaints, their difficulties,
their desire for improved conditions of work. Only in this way could local government become
really a help to its neighbourhood. Only in this way could men consult on the best way of improving
economic conditions, frame their own amelioration of existing laws, and send them up to the
Imperial Parliament for consent or veto.

Then it would probably follow that some measure of land reform would be the natural result
of such local government. Perhaps it is over the land that the Plough of Reform needs most
urgently to be driven. More than eight centuries ago the first idea of parks began in this
country. Then it was that in the selfish desire for private property the dwellings of the people
were swept away to make room for those of game for royal sport. Later this method was adopted
by Henry VIII's baronial retainers, who ejected the tenants from their estates for the sake
of trade profit-- profit to be gained by exporting wool from the large sheep farms into which
they made their private estates.

But the system of large tracts of land in a small country, such as our own, being bought up
for private property, and made into parks or game preserves, is of course at the root of very
many economic evils which have largely helped to cause pauperism and unhealthy conditions of
life for the agricultural labourer. If rich men may add, without the law stepping in to limit
amount, land to land as their pocket makes it possible, it follows, as a matter of course,
that more of the rustic population must move into the towns: and that more and more crowding
and over-competition are the result later on.

Newman--the man who was always boldest where there was a cause that needed fighting for, or
fellow citizens who were powerless to right their own wrongs, and who required someone to voice
them--spoke out his views on this subject, unhesitatingly. "That a man should be able to buy
up large tracts of land, and make himself the owner of them--to keep them in or out of culture
as he pleases--to close or open roads, and dictate where houses should be built ... this is
no natural right, but is an artificial creation of arbitrary law; law made by legislation for
personal convenience ... certainly not for the benefit of the nation.... I find it stated that
in 1845 the Royal Commission estimated that, since 1710, above seven millions of acres had
been appropriated by Private Acts of Parliament." (This was because of the enormous extension
of claims made by lords of the manors.) "It is certain that wild land was not imagined to be
a property in old days. The moors and bogs, and hillsides and seacoast imposed on the baron
the duty of maintaining the King's peace against marauders, but yielded to him no revenue....
Supplies open to all ought never to have been made private property.... Vast private estates
are pernicious in every country which permits them. It was notorious to the Romans under the
early emperors how ruinous they had been to Italy.... There they wrought out, among other evils,
emptiness of population, and extinction of agriculture." He represents that it was really due
to the break-up of the feudal system in the Tudor times which was responsible for the "chronic
pauperism" and multitude of "sturdy beggars" of later centuries. And the reason is a very patent
one. If more and more land is swamped in private enterprise, private revenue, it is a sine
qua non that peasant proprietorship must get less and less. There is not, in effect, enough
land to go round. Newman points out that, as regards land cultivation, we are behind France,
Spain, Italy, Germany, and Hungary; that a hundred years ago there were far more small freeholds
in England than is now the case; that England is a "marked exception in Europe in the land
tenure." "We know not whither beside England to look for a nation of peasants living by wages,
and divorced from all rights in the crops which they raise."

As Henry Fawcett said long ago, these wages of English labourers will not allow of the least
provision to be made either for the sickness or the feebleness of old age. They have, at the
close of a life of hard toil, nothing but the workhouse to live in, the road to beg in or sell
in that out-at-elbow, trade, the modern "chapman's."

Look at the average labourer of our own day. He has, as Newman clearly points out, "more than
enough to do in rearing a family, and has no better prospect in his declining years than rheumatism
and the poorhouse, perhaps with separation from his wife, or at least a miserable dole of out-door
relief." [Footnote: We have gone some way since these words were written in our Old Age Pensions.]
Here he puts his finger on the very spot where one thoughtless cruelty of bureaucratic legislation
is most shown. For many faithful servants of the State come in their last extremity to this
destiny. This irony of legislation shone out lately in its true colours when it was discovered
that, of over a thousand survivors of the Indian Mutiny, a large proportion, who were invited
to the demi-centenary celebration dinner, came out of workhouses where they, who had served
their country so well in the days of their youth, had been forced to spend their old age.

There is no doubt that Francis Newman's remedy for the economic evils of the people is the
right one. To develop rural industry, to come back to the land, is the hope for England's future.
"It is essential to the public welfare to multiply to the utmost the proportion of actual cultivators
or farmers who have a firm tenure of the soil by paying a quit-rent to the State.... The soil
of England ought to be the very best investment for rich and poor, pouring out wealth to incessant
industry, and securing to every labourer the fruit of his own toils."

And in this way, he urges, can this suggestion be carried to its definite conclusion. The revival
of small freeholds, the re-institution of peasant proprietorships, are the ways out of the
block at the end of the way where there is at present a deadlock in regard to the peasants'
individual advancement. It is well known how admirably this system has worked in France, where
millions of peasants have profited by the law in favour of small freeholds, and its regulation
that such land shall always be divided equally among the children of the landholder. It is
well known how largely Indian revenue was drawn from the rent paid by small cultivators in
the Dekkan. It may be taken as an invariable consequence that the measure which really profits
the citizen profits the State too.

I remember seeing among some old papers dating back to the early quarter of the nineteenth
century, an account showing that tobacco planting was really started somewhere in the Midlands
by two or three Englishmen, and it was found that the soil was thoroughly adapted to the culture
of tobacco. Indeed, the venture proved a complete success. Then the Government of that day,
fearing later consequences to the import trade, promptly intervened and put a stop to the home
cultivation. But the fact remains that it had been proved, by a definite experience, that there
was an opening for this industry in England.

It was suggested to me only the other day how many more cider-growing districts, for instance,
might be with advantage started in the provinces. For the truth of the matter, when we look
at it fairly and squarely, is that the home country can give rural work to many more of her
inhabitants than she is allowed to do at present; that, as Newman was always suggesting in
his lectures, the labourer should be given an interest in the land; that he should be encouraged
in trying to make a crop as good as possible by adopting some modification of the Metayer Culture;
that he should have rights in the land; be associated in the profit accruing to his overlord;
that if the wages of a farm labourer were small, yet that he should be given, perhaps, one-twentieth
of the produce; and that he should be encouraged to invest what saving might be possible to
him in the farm or trade. Newman was not in favour of the Savings Bank, as we understand it
in this country. He thought that associated profit and investment of savings in the employer's
land or trade would work far better in the long run, and lead to keener fellowship between
labourer and master.

To-day his plan, as it seems to many, stands very good chance of success, if given a fair trial
among the right sort of Englishmen. I am aware that these last four words sound vague, but
I have a very clear idea of what they mean myself! Newman thought that if a co-operative society
began by buying a moderate-sized farm, and divided it into "portions of six to ten acres, they
might find either among their own members or among other tradesmen known and trusted among
them, persons rich enough to provide seed and stock, and thus to live through the first year
on such holdings, and willing (later) to occupy them for themselves or for their sons. The
beginning is the great difficulty.... The first thing of all is to show, on however small a
scale, that such a cultivation can succeed.... If once peasants see peasant proprietors they
will have new motive for saving."

CHAPTER XV

VEGETARIANISM

The London Vegetarian Society was founded in 1847. When Newman joined it, therefore, it was,
so to speak, in its childhood. It will easily be understood, therefore, that much amazement
was excited (as is shown by the following letters), by his fellow guests at some large dinner
parties at which he was present, when Newman withstood valiantly the long siege of savoury
dishes at his elbow; and it seemed as if, though present in body, he was absent in appetite.
This amazement was scarcely lessened when, after passing seventeen dishes, at length he threw
the gates of his personal fortress open before some small omelet (prepared specially for him
by the cook), and that, practically, formed his entire dinner!

To Newman's mind the theory of Vegetarianism was proved. He published some Essays on Diet;
and was always an exponent of its rational claims on mankind.

Since the days when he wrote up the subject, many people have come over to his way of thinking,
and the way is made easy for those who wish to follow its obiter dicta for health.

But it is quite as keenly a subject for debate now as formerly among a large proportion of
men, though perhaps few among anti-vegetarians would dispute the point that there are, and
must be, certain conditions involved by anti-vegetarianism which can hardly be evaded, or defended.
One of these conditions, of course, is that it is not always possible to detect some diseases
in flesh sold for food: and that these diseases are communicable to man; another, the degrading
spectacle of the slaughter- house; another, the presence in our midst of the butcher's shop,
with all its revolting display: [Footnote: I have not forgotten that M. Zola contended that
the atmosphere of a butcher's shop conduced to the best and most healthy complexions of those
who served in it!] another, as Mr. Josiah Oldfield points out to us, that "horticulture ...
would employ an enormously greater amount of labour than does stock-raising, and so tend to
afford a counter current to the present downward drift, and to congested labour centres." Mr.
Oldfield urges also that "all elements for perfect nutrition in assimilable forms are found
in a proper vegetarian dietary."

I have not opportunity for finding out in what years Newman took up this practical dietary
of vegetarianism for himself, but I think it must have been towards the latter end of his life.
Mention will be found in the Reminiscences contributed by Mrs. Bainsmith, the sculptor, relating
to his bringing across occasionally, when she and her father and mother lived just opposite
the Professor's house at Weston-super-Mare, some particularly delicious vegetarian dish (concocted
by his own cook), which he had thought his friends could not fail to appreciate.

The following letters have been kindly sent me for reproduction by Mr. F. P. Doremus in connection
with Newman's views on Vegetarianism:--

To Mr. F. P. Doremus from Professor Newman.

"21st Sept., 1883.

"Dear Sir,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I deliberately prefer the rule of our Society and by preference adhere to it. But I have never
interpreted it as severely as I find some to do. On some occasions, in early years, when I
could get no proper vegetarian food, I have eaten some small bit of ham fat (as I remember
on one occasion) to aid dry potato from sticking in my throat. I do not interpret our rule
as forbidding exceptional action under stress of difficulty. But when I found what a fuss was
made about this, and saw that many people took the opportunity of inferring that a simple act
implied a habit, I saw that it was unwise to give anyone a handle of attack....

"I can only say that I interpret our rules conscientiously, and obey them according to my interpretation
faithfully. I do not see in our profession any vow or engagement comparable to that about never
tasting intoxicating drink. If my wife, who is not a professed vegetarian (though in practice
she is all but one), asks me to taste a bit of flesh and see... whether it is good, I find
nothing in our rules to forbid my gratifying her curiosity. In that case I do not take it as
diet to nourish me nor to gratify me. My words of adhesion simply declared that I had abstained
from such food for half a year, and I intended to abstain in the future. Of course this forbids
my habit or any intention to the contrary; but I deprecate interpreting this as a vow or as
a trap and a superstition. One who feels and believes as I do the vast superiority of our vegetarian
food, never can desire, unless perhaps in some abnormal state of illness, the inferior food....

"Faithfully yours,

"F. W. Newman."

"1st Oct., 1883.

"Dear Sir,

"... On reading yours anew after some ten days or less, I think I ought to notice what you
say of an unknown publisher.

"I cannot remember that for twenty years I have ever eaten in the company of any well-known
publisher (anyone known to me as a publisher) except Mr. Nicolas Trubner before I joined the
Vegetarians, and one other more recently. The latter was in the house of a lady friend who
always anxiously humoured me by providing a special dish for me.

"Her cook was not skilful in our cookery, but did her best. I remember distinctly who was present
on this occasion with this respected publisher. It was a luncheon with meats. I ate at the
same table, and it may very easily have escaped his notice that a different dish was handed to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have several times sat at this friend's table with a large number of guests. I remember
once counting that seventeen dishes were handed to me. I dined on my own food to the great
marvel of those near me....

"I have always maintained that the main reason for proclaiming any rule of diet is, that the
outsiders may be afforded facts to aid their own judgment; and that our engagement has no other
element of obligation than that we shall not vitiate the materials of such judgment.

"Therefore also I have advocated several grades--for instance, an engagement allowing of fish
as food (which many will take who will not go our length), and another in which absence from
home (where one cannot arrange the cookery) is an exemption. I rejoice also in the Daniclete
rule. Provided that it is KNOWN what is the diet, we give valuable information."

"14th Oct., 1883.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I knew that the publisher to whom you referred could only be Mr. Kegan Paul, who met me some
few years back at luncheon in the house of my friends the Miss Swanwicks: that until you told
me his name, I thought it better not to write to him. But thereupon I wrote and explained to
him that my friend Miss Anna Swanwick knew perfectly that I could not accept their hospitality
(as I have habitually done for a week or more at a time) if they expected me to partake of
any food inconsistent with the rules of our Society. I long ago furnished her with some of
our recipes, and she showed her cook always to make a special dish for me. At one of their
dinner parties I remember the amazement of guests at my passing all the dishes, as at first
it seemed, until my own little dish came. I told Mr. Kegan Paul that he must have mistaken
what was in my plate (perhaps crumb omelette browned over--which I remember the cook was apt
to give me) for some fish of which he and others were partaking. I have no doubt that this
was the whole matter....

"I am sincerely yours,

"F. W. Newman."

The closing letter in this series is evidently an answer to some questions from Mr. Doremus
as regards Newman's portrait, and as regards the incidents of his life.

"My life has been eminently uneventful." When one remembers in how many questions of social
reform, of theology, of written matter, Newman had been concerned, this short sentence strikes
one's eyes strangely enough. For what is an "event"? Surely it does not mean only something
which is a carnal happening: a material outbreak in some form or other which occurs before
our eyes? Surely there are far greater spiritual "events" than physical ones? And of this kind
of event Newman's life had been full. Originality of thought, of conception, of aim, is the
Event which takes precedence of all other. And these events were strewn like Millet's "Sower"
from side to side of his path: to take the true Latin significance of the word, they came out
from him.

"31st July, 1884.

"Dear Sir,

"Your letter has been forwarded to me from home to this place [Keswick].... Messrs. Elliot
and Fry (Baker Street, Portman Square), recently by pressure induced me to let them take my
photograph. In fact they took four, in different positions, all judged excellent, all of cabinet
size. Each, I believe, costs 2/-. I have none at my disposal. With or without my leave, anyone
can publish them in any magazine. Now, as to my biography--my life has been eminently uneventful.
There is nothing to tell but my studies, my successive posts as a teacher, and the list of
books, etc., from my pen, unless one add the effects of study on my CREED, which more than
one among you might desire not to make prominent in the Food Reformer.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Can I assent to the request that I will myself write something? Others might wish to know
in how many Antis I have been and am engaged!! Certainly more than you will care to make known
will go into two pages of your magazine.

"I am, sincerely yours,

"F. W. Newman."

Two letters to Dr. Nicholson from Newman I think may be given here: one in April, 1875, and
one in June, 1881, as both bear strongly on the vegetarian question:--

"25 April, 1875.

"My dear Nicholson,

"How time flies! Bearded men, active in moral and political questions, tell me they know nothing
of the Austro-Hungarian events, because they happened when they were children.

"One of them asked me to give a lecture on Austria and Hungary of the Past, as he was curious
and totally ignorant.... We are overrun with every kind of meeting, and the public are sated....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Happily every day is too short for me, and I cannot have time on my hands.... I do not know
whether you have attended the movement against vivisection, which is becoming lively. It has
long been a dire horror to me. I rejoice to see that Sir W. Thomson, [Footnote: Sir William
Thomson, born 1843, was late President of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland; Exam. in
Surgery, Queen's University and Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland.] and other scientific men,
desire a severe restriction to be put on it. I agree heartily with those who say we have no
more RIGHT to torture a dog than to torture a man; but I fear that to move at present with
Mr. Jesse for the total prohibition will only give to the worst practices a longer lease of life.

"Our vegetarianism is becoming more active with the pressure from the high price of butcher's
meat. Not that we make many entire conversions, but plentiful well-wishers and half-converts,
and a great increase in the belief that too much flesh meat is eaten, and that the doctors
are much to blame for having pressed it as they press wine and ale, calling it 'generous' food.
At the same time it is remarkable that the argument against slaughter-houses and for tenderness
to tame animals plays a more decisive part, especially with women, than economic and sanitary
arguments.... I am ever in experiment on something. At present it is on cacao butter and vegetable
oils. We esteem the cacao butter for savoury dishes very highly. Messrs. Cadbury sell it 'to
me and my friends' for 1s. a lb. In pastry and sweets the chocolate smell offends most people;
but my wife likes it. It is too hard to spread on cold meat.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The gardens are becoming sprightly. I have not had success with new vegetables, viz. German
peas, celery, turnips, Belgian red dwarf beans. The drought last summer was bad. No warm rain
in spring last year.

"Ever yours heartily,

"F. W. Newman."

The following is quoted from the second letter I mentioned:--

"I send to you a Penny Vegetarian Cookery Book herewith. Surely I was a Vegetarian when I last
was with you? I began the practice in 1867. But let me recite: (1) At breakfast and the third
meal I need nothing but what all fleshmeaters provide. (2) At dinner the utmost that I need
is one Vegetarian dish, which may be a soup. (3) If it so happen that you have any really solid
sweet puddings that alone will suffice. (4) For the one Vegetarian dish good brown bread and
butter is an acceptable substitute, or rather fulfilment. But I confess I am desirous of propagating
everywhere a knowledge of our peculiar dishes, which teach how to turn to best account the
manifold and abundant store of leaves, roots, and grains, besides pulse.

"My wife is fully able to impart practical knowledge: to please me, and see that others please
me, she has given great attention to Vegetarian cookery for many years back...."

CHAPTER XVI

NATIVE REPRESENTATION IN INDIAN GOVERNMENT

It is rare indeed that an Englishman looks at India as Francis Newman looked at it. Fifty years
ago--probably longer--he put his finger on exactly the spot which to-day is the crux which
most puzzles and baffles politicians. In social and intellectual questions his were the clear-
sighted, far-focussed eyes that reached beyond the measures of most men's minds. He saw clearly,
fifty years ago, that India was drawing ever closer and closer to an inevitable terminus. That
she was beginning to recognize --every year more definitely--her ultimate destination: was
beginning to realize, too, that her foreign rulers were aware also of that terminus, but were
not very anxious that she should reach it. Nay, were practically rather jogging her elbow to
prevent her becoming so conscious of the direction in which the tide of affairs was drifting.

Nevertheless it is becoming more and more patent to everyone who really studies the question
impartially that things are not what they were fifty or sixty years ago; that a critical juncture
is drawing ever nearer and nearer--a juncture which inevitably will mean great changes for
the governed and the governors.

Even the slow-moving East does move appreciably in half a century, when centres of education
are doing their best to train Indians in European ideas of civilization, in European ideas
of government, and of the authority which learning gives. We cannot expect to educate and yet
leave those we educate exactly where we find them; for with education comes invariably, inevitably,
the growth of ideas planted by it--their growth, and no less invariable fruition. To show someone
all that is to be gained by reaching forward, and then to expect him not to reach, but to remain
quiescent, is the act of a fool.

We have, as a nation, so taken it for granted that India is our own to do as we like with,
that it is perhaps not a pleasant reminder which faces us as we cast our thoughts back to the
initial steps taken by ourselves in the days which preceded the formation of the Honourable
East India Company. It bids us realize that at first, as Francis Newman says in his Dangerous
Glory of India, "neither king, statesmen, nor people ever deliberately planned from the beginning
or desired such an empire. It began as a set of mercantile establishments which took up private
arms for mere self-defence.... The Honourable East India Company was glad to legitimate its
position by accepting from the Grand Mogul the subordinate position of a rent-collector; indeed,
from the beginning to the end of its political career it was animated by a consistent and unswerving
disapproval of aggression and fresh conquest."

Since that time, however, the English dominion spread rapidly. Since that time we became more
and more aware of what a splendid field lay ready for occupation by our surplus population.
Since that time we have moved forward through a vast country that formerly, through lack of
European ways of civilization and co-operation, practically lay at our feet. It is true that
we have done much--very much for India. It is impossible for anyone to deny that. We have brought
to her doors European civilization; modern points of view; the miracles of new discoveries
in science; inventions for making the wheels of life move easier; opportunities for cultivating
and selling her land's produce, and for its quick transport. We have lifted her up--yes, but
here is where the mental shoe pinches--we have insisted on preventing her from reaching her
full stature. We have trained her sons to be able to work side by side with ourselves in various
official duties; and then when they are desirous--as is indeed only the inevitable consequence
of their education--of entering the lists side by side with Englishmen, they find there is
no crossing the rubicon which officially divides the two nations.

It is true that many Anglo-Indians stand aghast at this idea that they should cross it, but
it is only those who are unaware that, as a general rule, education and environment combined
come out as top dog over heredity in most instances in which it plays a part. It is only those
who, when they go out to India, take, as it were, England with them, and fail to recognize
how far Indian points of view and power of dealing with things have progressed. It is only
those who have forgotten--if indeed they ever truly realized it--that it is a point of honour
that such a proceeding should be carried out, if we, as Englishmen, remember all that the notable
charter of 1833 bound us to do.

For the charter of 1833 [Footnote: During Lord Grey's ministry.] definitely promised that native
Indian subjects of the English Government were to be admitted on equal terms with English subjects
to every office of State, except that of governor-general or commander-in-chief. Not only that,
but the solemn proclamation of the late Queen was issued in 1858, pledging the word of Sovereign
and Parliament that the "sole aim of British rule in India was the welfare of the Indian people,
and that no distinction would be made between Indians and Europeans in the government of the
country, on the grounds of race, or creed, or colour."

As Francis Newman says very clearly, it is a "task which we have voluntarily assumed-to rule
India, which means" (the italics are his) "to defend it from itself in infancy, to train it
into manhood.... It presupposes that the people gradually get more and more power until, like
a son who comes of age, the parental control is discontinued.... We cannot take the last steps
first, nor can we abruptly and recklessly resign our post...."

The Hon. M. G. K. Gokhale, in a keenly interesting paper read before the East India Association
in the summer of 1906, states very definitely the point of view of educated Indians as regards
our unfulfilled pledges of nearly eighty years since. He says: "Until a few years ago, whatever
might have been thought of the pace at which we were going, there was no general disposition
to doubt the intention of the rulers to redeem their plighted word. To-day, however, the position
is no longer the same.... There is no doubt that the old faith of the people in the character
and ideals of British rule has been more than shaken.... Half a century of Western education,
and a century of common laws, common administration, common grievances, common disabilities,
have not failed to produce their natural effect even in India.... Whatever a certain school
of officials in India may say, the bulk of educated Indians have never in the past desired
a severance of the British connection.... "But, he adds: "It is a critical juncture in the
relations between England and India.... The educated classes in India ... want their country
to be a prosperous, self- governing, integral part of the Empire, like the colonies, and not
a mere poverty-stricken bureaucratically-held possession of that Empire."

Fifty years ago Francis Newman was urging with all the force in his power --and no one in his
day was more farsighted in detecting just that social reform which would make more and more
insistent demand for a hearing, as decade followed decade--that it was to our own interest
as a nation, as well as the only honourable course open to us, to open up public offices in
India to the educated native. It need not, he showed, be done otherwise than with caution,
and gradually "many variations" were "imaginable; many different ways might succeed, if only
the right end in view" was "steadily held up, namely, to introduce, fully and frankly, into
true equality with ourselves" [Footnote: To "exclude natives from all high office," Sir Charles
Napier said once emphatically, "is what debases a nation."] (again the italics are his) "as
quickly as possible, and as many as possible, of the native Indians whose loyalty could be
counted on.... Lord Grey and his coadjutors, in renewing the charter of 1833, understood most
clearly that nothing but an abundance of black faces in the highest judicature, and intelligent
Indians of good station in the high police, could administer India uprightly.... Every year
that we delay evils become more inveterate and hatred accumulates. To train India into governing
herself, until English advice is superfluous, would be to both countries a lasting benefit,
to us a lasting glory."

Now, what are the "evils" which "every year become more inveterate" in our method of government
in India? Perhaps one of the most palpable is the strongly centralized bureaucracy. Another,
is the constant change of men in chief office every five years. Another, is that all competitive
examinations are held in London. Mr. Gokhale very rightly urges that it is a great deal to
require of an Indian that he should have to come all the way to England for these examinations
on the chance of passing, and suggests their being held simultaneously in India and in England.
Another, is that the field of law is the only officialdom open to the Indian, yet that there
he is found capable of rising to the highest post. Another, that we have not pushed forward
the education of the masses as far as we reasonably might if we had worked hand in hand with
the educated classes. Mr. Gokhale tells us that to-day seven children out of eight are growing
up in ignorance, and four villages out of five are as yet without a school-house.

There are other drawbacks to this system of foreign bureaucracy, which can only be briefly
touched on here, but certainly Newman was right when he condemned that mistaken, high-handed
measure of the autocratic East India Company--their destruction of all the local treasuries,
and the manner in which these funds were diverted into the central treasury. Thus, as he pointed
out very clearly, no moneys were left for the repair of roads, bridges, and tanks, etc. As
he remarks, "In comparison with this monster evil, all other delinquencies seem to fade away."

As everyone probably is aware, Newman lost no opportunity in pressing home on the minds of
his countrymen that it is decentralization that is so urgently needed; and that not alone in
India, but in our own country as well. Repeatedly he urged that if Government is administered
from one central bureaucracy, it follows inevitably that the business to be dealt with bulks
so enormously that it is literally impossible to deal, in detail and with complete understanding,
with the rights and wrongs of citizens at a distance in the provinces and remote parts of a
big empire. Consequently, he was always trying to show how far more successfully local self-government--a
local ward-mote, for instance--would deal with provincial matters in England. That every town
should be, as it were, a little State, with all classes represented in it, and matters dealt
with locally should only come up to the Central Parliament for veto or for sanction. In the
same way he recommended strongly that in India every facility should be given to "voluntary
(limited liability) companies to execute roads, works of irrigation, etc...." That country
districts should be given local treasuries, as well as towns.

In "English institutions and their most necessary reforms," Newman declares and reiterates
that this lack of local treasuries is a "hideous blunder," and adds, "every coin in every province
is liable to be spent in some war." He urges other changes, which have come to pass in some
measure, such as a Viceroy, a "prince of the blood royal," sent out to "receive their occasional
homage." But there again lack of cooperation with the natives, lack of real understanding between
us and them, have, as everyone is aware, worked havoc when a man [Footnote: It is impossible
to forget in this connection what the Tribune called our "Curzonian statescraft" in the recent
past.] without the necessary insight and sympathy into the people's points of view and ways
of thought has been sent to posts of supreme authority.

There have been men of splendid capabilities for understanding and sympathizing with these
points of view, men such as Sir James Outram, the Bayard of India; Sir John Malcolm, Lord Elphinstone,
Sir George Russell Clerk, Lord Lawrence, Ovans, and many others, who helped forward the better
understanding between England and India very greatly; and of these, Outram suffered grievous
misrepresentations at the hands of his Government, Clerk was put aside, and Ovans had to stand
his trial in England for an absolutely unjustifiable charge.

Whenever the question of co-operation and sympathy comes up, as from time to time it does,
between Englishmen and Indians, whether it is fifty or sixty years ago, in Newman's day or
now in the year of grace 1909, with a few honourable exceptions, the answer is identically
the same. It is practically an unknown quantity. The East and West have not really met. Still
the ranks of the service are absorbed by Englishmen; still, as all educated Indians protest,
the "true centre of gravity for India is in London"; still India is unrepresented in the Viceroy's
Executive Councils, and in Customs, Post, Survey, Telegraph, Excise, etc., and also in the
Commissioned ranks of the Army; still, because district administration is to all intents and
purposes not in existence, there is no compulsory education for boys and girls, though most
educated Indians are very strongly in favour of it.

It is not, it cannot be, because our eyes, as a nation, have been shut to the fact of what
the faults of our own administration have been in years gone by. If no one else had trumpeted
them abroad, at least one man spoke out the whole truth and nothing but the truth about it
in the last century: Francis, the great Social Reformer--Francis Newman, who was no time-server,
no prophesier of smooth things; but, as much as in him lay, desired more than anything else
to lay the whole unvarnished truth before his fellow men, things that concerned the weaker
members of the community. In lecture after lecture he turned things to the "rightabout-face"
which had hitherto been done sub rosa in India. He did in effect pull down the very rose tree
which had acted as such an efficient shelter. His bull's- eye lantern always cast an uncompromising
glare upon those sometimes very "shady" doings of our countrymen which characterized their
treatment of natives in the early Victorian era, and--occasionally perhaps, even since.

No one has forgotten, for instance, the words of Mr. Halliday, Lieutenant- Governor of Bengal,
when he described our police as a curse to India in 1854.

Newman reminded his countrymen that in 1852 a petition had been sent to the House of Commons
from Lower Bengal, "among other grievous complaints," which "stated that by reason of the hardships
inflicted on witnesses, the population" were averse from testifying to the ill-doings and tyranny
of these police.

Again, as regarded the courts of law in India, Newman reminded us of the revelations contained
in that volume by the Hon. Mr. Shore concerning our Government (the book which was withdrawn 1844).

It was there stated definitely that, until the days of Lord William Bentinck, Persian was the
only language used in these courts. Consequently, as neither judge, nor clerk, nor litigating
party, nor person accused, nor his witnesses understood it, it constantly happened that the
case was a veritable reductio ad absurdum. No one knew what was happening until at last the
man--if it was a case of murder--was shown that the case had gone against him by being shown
the gallows!

It is true nous avons change tout cela, in these days, and the vernacular tongue is used instead,
but now it is the judge who doesn't always know accurately what is going on, for he cannot
always understand what the witnesses are saying! As Newman says very shrewdly: "If self- confident,
he trusts his own impressions; if timid, he leans on the judgment of his native clerk; if formal
and pedantic, he believes all clear and coherent statements. His weaknesses are watched, and
it is soon understood whether he is to be better managed by fees to the clerk, or by the forging
of critical evidence, in cases for which it is worth while. Very scandalous accounts have been
printed in great detail ... and one thing is clear, that those Englishmen who have looked keenly
into the matter and dare to speak freely, believe justice to have a far worse chance in such
tribunals than before native judges."

Francis Newman tells us that his own eyes were opened to the prevailing state of things in
those days, by "a very intelligent, and widely informed indigo-planter." He told him that when
he first began indigo-planting, his partner had given this emphatic rule of conduct: "Never
enter the Company's Courts!" And to his own amazed question as to what course of action was
to be pursued when a difficulty arose, he clearly and openly explained. "If a native failed
to pay us our dues, we never sued him, but simply publicly seized some of his goods, sold them
by auction, deducted our claim from the proceeds, and handed over to him the balance." There
is something almost humorous in this travesty of an amende honorable for so highhanded a measure!

One may in very deed be thankful that since the day of all these happenings, Indians have,
as Mr. Gokhale tells us, "climbed in the field of law, to the very top of the tree," and can
now deal out first-hand justice to their fellow countrymen.

I think I cannot give a fitter close to this chapter than by quoting Newman's suggestions as
to measures of urgent importance with regard to our Indian Empire, which were made a little
over forty years ago.

"The establishment of an Imperial Court in India to judge all causes.... The mark of a 'tyrant'
(according to the Old Greeks) was his defence by a foreign body-guard: we bear that mark of
illegitimate sway at present.

"To make India loyal, to save the yearly sacrifice of health or life to 10,000 young men, now
the miserable victims of our army system, is so urgent an interest, that I put this topic foremost.
Too much importance can hardly be given to it. Each soldier is said to cost us L100; hence
the pecuniary expense also is vast. But until we restrain ourselves from aggression, all attempts
permanently to improve our millions at home must be fruitless.... Our task is to rear India
into political manhood, train it to English institutions, and rejoice when it can govern itself
without our aid."

CHAPTER XVII

VOTES FOR WOMEN

There is always a large percentage of people who range themselves on the side of the majority
in regard to any question of the day. They range themselves there not because of any principle
involved, but simply and solely because they consider this mode of action expedient. And they
feel far safer, far happier, taking the flabby, muscleless arm of Expediency than in venturing
into unknown difficulties behind the uncompromisingly stiff figure of Principle. But there
are others-thank God for them!--who hate the shifty, cunning eye of Expediency far too much
to have anything to do with him. These others would far rather be in the minority in championing
some good cause than with the "expedient" majority.

These others are the pioneers of civilization. Sometimes--to-day we have many cases in point
as regards the social crusade of brave women against taxation without representation--they
are martyrs as well as pioneers. But the splendid spirit of knight-errantry, which shone so
vividly with the fire of enthusiasm in medieval days, is still abroad in our midst to-day.
A few militant personalities fight for a great cause, a great principle-- the raising of a
better moral tone amongst us, the betterment of the lives of their fellows. Newman was one
of these. His sword was always in the thickest of the fight when it was a fight against some
social injustice to his fellow citizens. Forty years ago and more he spoke out in championship
of woman's rights. So long ago as 1867 he led the movement which tilted at social wrongs, social
injustices dealt out to the sex. It is a movement which has taken, as I said, more than half
a century to make its way to the position it holds to-day. It has been opposed bitterly almost
every inch of the way by men who love expediency, and turn their backs on the principle of
the thing; which is fair play for women. Nevertheless, England is a country which prides herself
on her keen sense of justice and freedom.

If Newman had done nothing else, his work for this movement would be unforgettable; his words
were so outspoken, his way of dealing with the subject so broad-minded. In one of his articles
he urged the following on his fellow men:--"Readers of History, and Lawyers, are aware that
women's wrongs are an ancient and terribly persistent fact.... Why has our law been so unjust
to women?--Because women never had a voice in the making of it, and men as a class have not
realized the oppression of women as a class" (the italics are my own). "Men have deep in their
hearts the idea that women ought to be their legal inferiors; that neither the persons of women
nor their property ought to remain their own; that marriage is not a free union on equal terms;
and that the law ought to favour the stronger sex against the weaker. It is remarkable that
our law is more unjust to women than that of the great historically despotic nations, and in
some important respects less favourable than that of the Turks. All these things point out
that equality of the sexes in respect to the Parliamentary Franchise is essential to justice.
The conscience of men is opening to the truth...." "Readers of newspapers cannot be ignorant
of the miseries endured by wives from brutal husbands. In ordinary decorous families, sons
at lavish expense are trained to self-support. The daughters in one class have nothing spent
on their education; in another, are educated as elegant ornaments of a drawing-room, where
they live in luxury for a parent's delight; yet when he dies, and their youth is spent, they
are often turned adrift into comparative poverty, incompetent for self-help. When complaint
is made of this, the ascendant sex graciously tells them, 'they ought to marry,' and this in
a country where women are counted by the hundred thousand more numerous than men; where also
men do not universally accept the state of marriage. Meanwhile, the law is made as if to dissuade
the woman from such a remedy. If she dare to adopt it, it instantly strips her of all her property,
great or little; [Footnote: Since then some amendment of the wrong has been done by the "Married
Women's Property Act."] and if she earn anything, authorizes her husband to seize it by force.
In the Marriage Service, the husband, as if in mockery, says, 'With all my worldly goods I
thee endow': while the law allows him to gamble away her whole fortune the day after the marriage,
or to live in riotous indulgence on her money, and give to her the barest necessaries of life....
He may maliciously refuse her the sight of her own children.... And if to gain one sight of
them she return to his house for two days, the law holds her to have 'condoned' all his offences
however flagrant."

Mr. Haweis many years ago said a very significant thing. He said that the best--if the rarest--men
had always a good share of the woman nature in themselves. Francis Newman was one of these
men. He understood the woman's point of view without any telling. He knew instinctively, intuitively,
the mental cramp, the moral inability to rise to her full stature, which is induced by man's
perpetual effort to fit her into a measured mould prepared by himself. He knew that if "a man's
reach must exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?" what a hell faced the woman who could
not even reach forward to fulfil all the many aims which she was conscious were stirring within
her, longing for attainment. He had seen women, his countrywomen, shake the bars behind which
they faced their world for the very passion of revolt against these man-set limits, which kept
them in on every side. He knew that, of all hard fates, perhaps few are more bitter than to
feel the power and ability within you to do some work as well as another does it, and yet to
have no freedom to use that power. To be forced, by man-made laws, to wrap up your talent in
the napkin of legal red-tapeism, when everything within you, perhaps, urges you to turn it
to good account.

Let us look for one moment at some of the legal disabilities of women to- day. Perhaps some
of us are hardly aware to what an almost incredible distance they reach.

Mr. Henry Schloesser, barrister-at-law of the Inner Temple, [Footnote: In his pamphlet published
by the Women's Social and Political Union.] very explicitly explains how they affect women.
"At Common Law the father is entitled against the mother to the custody of the children, and
this right he could only forfeit by gross misconduct; so also he was entitled to prescribe
their mode of education.... He remains prima facie the guardian of his children, to the exclusion
of the mother" [the italics are my own]. "Alone of the learned professions, the medical is
open to women...." (She constantly proves her aptitude to take the same honours as man as regards
the others, but he still growls over his share and keeps her out.) "A husband is not bound
at Common Law to cohabit with or maintain his wife."

These facts show luridly against the sky of woman's world, but perhaps few men know what purgatorial
fires they light in many a woman's heart to-day. They show that man's injustice to her does
not only concern her in public life, but even in the home life (to which he would fain limit
her energies); she has practically no legal status at all. She has not even a right to her
own children in the eye of the law. Quite recently a judge decided that "a woman is not a parent
in the eye of the law," and therefore powerless in things relating to her children. She is
excluded from the guardianship of them. Yet so curiously irrational is this same English law
that, should any woman wronged by a man become mother to an illegitimate child, upon her falls
the whole onus of its maintenance until it is sixteen years old. The man gets off scot-free;
for the world which condones an offence (which is shared by both) in the case of the man, condemns
it in the woman.

Thus, as Mr. Thomas Johnston [Footnote: The Case for Woman's Suffrage, by Thomas Johnston.
Published by the Women's Social and Political Union.] very clearly puts it: "Where there is
any stigma or blame, the woman bears it alone.... Under the law of England to-day a man can
secure divorce by simply proving the unfaithfulness of his wife. But the wife, in order to
obtain a divorce from her husband for the same unfaithfulness, must, in addition, prove cruelty
or desertion." This in itself is very one-sided law, and certainly indefensible.

Francis Newman describes this law in no measured terms. He declares in his article on "Marriage
Laws" (1867) that what undeniably needs reform in our country's government is "the extravagant
power given by our law to a husband.... The exclusive right attributed to him over the children
is unjust and pernicious. His rights over his wife's person [Footnote: According to English
law, as evidenced in a recent case, the wife is not "a person" at all; presumably, therefore,
she is simply his chattel!] are extreme and monstrous.... We need a single short, sweeping
enactment that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in past statutes, no woman henceforth
shall by marriage change her legal status or lose any part of her rights over property....

       *       *       *       *       *

"We implore all true and genuine Conservatives not to delay and use half- measures, but to
do justice to the sex in good time. He who tries to uphold injustice is the true and efficient
revolutionist, while he thinks he is Conservative."

He goes on to touch thus on what is perhaps the most cruel injustice of all--that the law permits
a man to deprive his wife of the children, who, before God, are as equally hers as his:--

"Not only with regard to property, also in regard to children, the law is unjust to women.
The mother has to undergo much in bringing a child to maturity--the agony of childbirth...
the countless cares of tending and watching by night and day. The child becomes the darling
of her heart, the image of her dreams, the great centre of her thoughts and hopes; and after
all her toils, the law permits a husband to take the child permanently out of her sight, and
(if he choose) to put it under the charge of an enemy ... who will fill its mind with falsehoods
and teach it to hate and despise its mother. Such things are not possibilities merely and dreams;
they are stern realities, and the law gives her no redress."

When one thinks of all that these words mean, one is face to face with the almost unthinkable
fact that the case of the woman in England is unjust beyond description, and for this reason,
that, as Newman says, "Men, who alone make the laws, make them with but little account of woman."
At home with her children she is defenceless. She has no power over them, and her husband is
not bound to "maintain" her, notwithstanding the sentence, which English law has made absolutely
meaningless, of his marriage vow to her: "With all my worldly goods I thee endow."

In the world, if she have no husband or be unmarried, she is not a "person" in a legal sense;
and during election time her house is described, in canvassing for votes, as having "no occupier"!
In the world, too, she is unable to obtain a fair wage for her work. She may do the work as
well as man, but nevertheless, in most cases, her pay is less. Mr. Johnston tells us that the
average male worker's wage has been calculated to be about 18s., but the average woman worker's
wage is only about 7s. And when women find out these many injustices suffered at home and in
the world by their sex, as Miss Christabel Pankhurst says, they are absolutely unable to right
these wrongs, for "women have no political power."

Here is the pivot round which the wrongs of women revolve--her lack of legal status, her voicelessness
as regards the laws of her country, the country which is so openly irrational as to count her
a "person" when it wants to get a tax out of her, but refuses to do so at any other time when
she has something to ask of it in return!

Once the parliamentary vote is given to women, the same results would follow in England as
have followed elsewhere. Wages and hours of labour are made just for women, as in many respects
they have been now made for men. The laws of divorce are the same. Mothers are made joint guardians
of their children with their fathers. The age of protection for girls is raised to 18. [Footnote:
At the present moment, by the English law, a girl can contract a valid marriage at twelve years
of age; a boy at fourteen. (See Legal Status of Women, by H. H. Schloesser.)] In New South
Wales, after the women were given the vote, Dr. Mackellar brought in a bill to deal with the
protection of illegitimate children, which has answered admirably; while in New Zealand and
Australia the Wages Board, which the women's vote helped to pass, has raised in both countries
the wages of women from 5s. to l6s. per week for the same amount of work done. And in other
respects it has abolished sweating--that crucial question of crucial questions in England to-day.

There is another point, too, amongst many others, in which the vote helped the national life
in Australia in the giving of old age pensions. Perhaps had women the vote here in England,
the shameful system in which old men and women are separated in the last years of their life,
as the workhouses ordain, would be altered. And this is a question which demands immediate
attention--immediate attention; for more than L26,000,000 are paid by taxpayers each year to
be spent in great part on our wretched system of poor laws.

Francis Newman was strongly against poor laws administered as they are in England to-day, as,
indeed, is every thoughtful man. He was also strongly of opinion that there should be women
on juries in some cases. And indeed it is a fact that women magistrates, as well as women jurors,
are most certainly a sine qua non in those cases where, at the present moment, owing to juries
being composed of men only, common justice for the unrepresented Englishwoman in relation with
the other sex is not, in a great proportion of cases, rendered her. But even were women made
eligible for these offices, it would be no new thing, for in Mary Tudor's reign there were
two women appointed justices of the peace; and, of course, always there has been a provision
in law for "a jury of matrons" in certain cases.

Indeed, when one goes far enough back in research into most questions, the invariable lesson,
is taught us, which we are always so reluctant, in our cocksureness of the "antiquity" of our
present-day conditions of life, to learn, and we find that our arrangements very often are
not "as it was in the beginning," but only mushroom growths of a decade or two. As Mrs. Wolstenholme
Elmy very justly says in her recent pamphlet on "Woman's Franchise," women possessed voting
rights from time immemorial, and the year 1832 was the year when they were dispossessed of
many ancient rights by the Reform Act passed in that year.

As regards other disabilities of women, Francis Newman wrote very fully and very strongly upon
them, and it is impossible to leave them unmentioned here. In 1869 he wrote: "There is one
important matter which young men need specially to be taught, viz. that at no time of life
is any man ... exempt from the essential duty of curbing animal impulses.... Nothing so paralyzes
his force of Will as to be told that some men have from God the gift of continence, and others
have it not. This doctrine is disastrously prominent in the Anglican marriage service, and
is borrowed from St. Paul. But that great and deep-hearted apostle was unmarried and without
personal experience. He writes, not as one revealing supernatural communications, but as imparting
his best wisdom.... A general and just inference is, that a firm self-restraint is necessary
and salutary for every man."

It is impossible to write more strongly and clearly of the wickedness of women's ancestral
personal rights being swept away than does Newman in articles published in the fourth volume
of his Miscellanies. He does not disguise the shameful state of the law as it affects woman
to-day, and as it is carried out by Government--that law which makes wrongdoing so easy and
unpunishable for man, and so hard and unjust to woman. The unjustifiableness of certain laws
was shown up with no uncertain pen by him. He was himself convinced of their iniquity; and
once convinced, he stood forward as a modern John the Baptist, spared no one, and passionately
accused his countrymen of the injustice, immorality, and cruelty of their making one law for
men and another for women. He inveighed against the world's point of view of this subject:
and this not once, nor twice, but constantly; and urged with all his might that these wrongs
to his countrywomen should be righted. Nevertheless his articles, many of them, are forgotten.
The dust of neglect is lying thick upon them on many an unused shelf to-day. His voice has
long been silent; and no doubt it has been said of him (as it was by a Church dignitary of
Father Dolling at his death): "We shan't be worried any more by him now about the righting
of social abuses." Laws against which Newman declaimed are not altered yet, and we are a long
way from those far-reaching reforms he advocated. But the words he wrote are not dead. They
are in our midst to- day, and they stir depths to-day in the hearts of his countrymen in suggestions
towards social reformation; towards the righting of wrongs just as glaring to-day as they were
a century ago. Questions which can never be put superficially aside, by men who, like Newman,
cannot endure to leave a social wrong unredressed, if they can by any searching find the remedy.

CHAPTER XVIII

FRANCIS NEWMAN AND HIS RELIGION

More than one person has said to me in connection with this memoir: "If the whole of Frank
Newman's heterodox religious opinions be not given, the book will lose half its point."

To my mind there are quite two, if not more, sides to this question. My strongest argument,
however, in favour of only dealing briefly with them is this: It is quite true that Agnosticism
more or less held its sway over him during the years between 1834 and 1879. I am quite aware
of how tremendous a slice that is of a man's life. But it is not an overwhelming testimony
when one comes to look at it not from the worldly point of view.

There are periods in which Time--as Time--seems almost beside the mark. "A thousand years in
Thy sight are but as yesterday." When the Israelites had once achieved their journey through
the wilderness--nay, even through the earlier time of tyranny amongst the Egyptians-I suppose
the actual years seemed as a dream when one awaketh.

I myself have known forty years pass, for someone afflicted with a terrible mental disability,
as a watch in the night, once light pierced through the clouds of the long-darkened mental
vision. Time, as sex, is purely temporary. In this present world we cannot do without either,
but when Time itself passes for good, the old implements which were necessary to make the clock
go round will pass likewise.

So, in Newman's case, when that tremendous slice in a man's life--forty- five years--was overpast,
he sloughed off the old garments of Agnosticism, and came back to the Christian faith professed
by him in early childhood so conscientiously--and, indeed, up to the year after his missionary
journey, 1834.

This fact influences me largely in the matter of dealing only briefly with the time-as regards
his religious professions--which lies between these two dates, and for these reasons, which
I hope to prove, carry considerable weight.

The first is that people are mistaken in considering that it was his religious opinions which
made Newman great. The real valour of his life was shown in the splendid aspects of Social
Reform which he showed to the world; the way of the New Citizenship, of the New Patriotism,
which he was for ever preaching and writing about. He was the Perseus of To-day whose wholehearted
efforts were spent in freeing the Andromedas from their antiquated bonds and fetters; whose
good sword was ever pointed at the throats of the dragons which lift their ugly heads against
freedom-- against reforms of all sorts; the dragons who take so long in dying.

But there are many who will regret bitterly that a man who served his generation so splendidly
as he did in these matters should ever have written a book such as the Phases of Faith; for
though it is undeniably clever, yet it is not convincing; and very much of it is very painful
reading for those who do not care to wander out of the way in the wilderness of religious speculation
and doubt.

Newman declares in this book that he did not give up Christianity; yet he gave up all that
made Christianity Christianity. He said in it that he was looking for a "religion which shall
combine the tenderness, humility, and disinterestedness that are the glories of the purest
Christianity, with that activity of intellect and untiring pursuit of truth." [Footnote: He
said once he wished for a religion which should combine the best out of all religions in the
world.]

When he mentions that, in his time, "of young men at Oxford not one in five seemed to have
any convictions at all," he seems to imply that it was on account of the desire for a new religion;
whereas it was far more traceable to the after-effects of Calvinism and Puritanism, which have
stuck, as spiritual limpets, to England's religious rocks ever since they first reached them.
They are certainly looser in their hold than was the case formerly, but they are there still.

Phases of Faith was published in 1850. But the year before a book of far more religious suggestiveness
had come out, though that too was a book of opposition to the accepted forms of religion, The
Soul: its Sorrows and Aspirations.

Regarded as a work postulating a new spiritual point of view, it was vague and unsatisfying.
It was without form and void. It desired that most unsatisfying thing, a religion with no dogmas:--those
stakes which preserve the ground on which grow the flowers of religious truth, from those who
come but to spoil and destroy. And again: "The Bible is a blessed book if we do not stifle
the Holy Spirit within us."

The second reason why I touch on these religious opinions (before mentioned) but briefly, is
because of my own strong impression since I have been writing this memoir, that in that next
chapter of existence upon which Newman has now entered, he may not impossibly be nearer the
Light, the religious truth, which here he so earnestly sought, but mistakenly; and in his regret
for his own phases of religious unfaith, now cast aside, may not wish them to be recapitulated
anew.

I have mentioned before that Francis Newman returned to his earlier faith in Christianity a
few years before his death.

It remains, therefore, to give the proofs which have been put into my hands regarding this fact.

Two of his very greatest friends, Anna Swanwick and Dr. Martineau, received from his own hands
the knowledge that he wished it to be known that he died a Christian. I shall give a quotation
from one of Newman's last letters to the former, from Miss Bruce's Memoir of Recollections
of Anna Swanwick. In almost illegible writing, he says:--

"If I live through this year, I hope to effect, by aid of a friend's eyes, a third ... edition
of my Paul of Tarsus, with grateful acknowledgment that, in spite of a few details, I more
and more come round to the substance of the views of my honoured friend, James Martineau.

I should also like to add Miss Bruce's own words in this connection:--

"He" (Newman) "was drawn back at the end of his long life by the sweet reasonableness and loving
sympathy of his friend Anna Swanwick, and the teaching of Dr. Martineau."

Also these words from a letter written by Anna Swanwick: "It is delightful to me to think how,
when the veil shall have fallen from the eyes of our friend" (F. W. Newman), "he will love
and venerate Him in Whose footsteps he is unconsciously treading." Yet I must add here that
in a letter from Newman to Anna Swanwick (to which I had access) in 1897, there is no definite
statement of his belief in Immortality. "If God gives me immortality, I am content. If it pleases
Him to annihilate me, it is well. Let Him do with me as seemeth to Him good."

There was also another, Rev. J. Temperley Grey, who visited Newman constantly in his last illness,
and who said of his final conversion these words, in the "In Memoriam" address he gave at Newman's
funeral:--

"Of late his" (Newman's) "attitude towards Christ had undergone a great change. He confessed
to me only very recently that for years he had held on to Christianity by the skirts of S.
Paul; 'but now,' he said, 'Paul is less and less, and Christ is more and more.' He made this
statement with an emphasis and an emotion which conveyed the impression that he wished it to
be regarded as a final testimony."

To those of us who are Christians these are strong words, showing clearly where, in his last
illness and failing strength, he had turned for final help.

Some have called Francis Newman an atheist. But he was no atheist. A theist for many years
he was: but it was because he was unable to reconcile certain historical difficulties, or to
get rid of certain earlier Calvinistic tendencies, or to accept certain dogmas which seemed
to him impossible of acceptation, and in this last respect he is certainly not alone.

Mr. Temperley Grey's testimony to Newman as a fellow townsman, during his last days at Weston-super-Mare
(he died 6th Oct., 1897), shows him to us as a man who acted to his fellow men, and women,
as a Christian should, although he did not, till near the end, believe as one.

"Without depreciating in the least his illustrious brother, it may truly be said that while
the one was a saint in the cloister, the other was a saint in the very thick of life's battle.
[Footnote: "Henry Newman... stood for a spiritual Tory; while Francis Newman was a spiritual
Radical" (Morning Leader, October, 1897).] ... I would speak of him rather as the neighbour
and townsman who moved to and fro among us ... and whom, distrusting at first, we ultimately
reverenced and loved for his nobility of character, his simplicity of life, his tenderness
of conscience, his devoutness of spirit, and his generosity of heart.

"Theologically we were far apart, but we were entirely with him in his enthusiasm for righteousness,
his sympathy with downtrodden and oppressed peoples.... We were with him also in his untiring
efforts to secure for women their rightful place in the shaping of our national life, and in
his splendid protests against the tortures inflicted in the name of science on the poor, helpless
animals, our dumb brothers. To hear the old man eloquently discourse upon these themes was
to be morally uplifted.... Those of us who were admitted into the inner circle of his friends
were profoundly impressed by his devoutness. He lived as in the Presence of God, and his prayers
in the home, so simple, so trustful, so reverential, were always a means of grace, a real refreshment.

       *       *       *       *       *

"He was a true philanthropist. He championed the cause of the oppressed everywhere.... A room
in his house was set apart as a guest-chamber for persons needing a change to the seaside,
but whose circumstances barred the way; and not a few were fresh equipped for the work and
battle of life, as a result of his thoughtful hospitality.... Francis Newman stood by himself
in his greatness, his goodness, his simplicity, and we shall not find his like again.... Above
all, our friend was a truth seeker. This was the ruling passion of his life."

Mrs. Temperley Grey tells me that it was always Newman's first wife's great hope that her husband
should be the means, through his ministrations during the last part of Newman's life, of leading
him back to his original faith. Mrs. Newman used deeply to regret Newman's lack of definite
belief, but always said when the subject was raised, "Cannot they understand that my husband
is under a cloud--a mist, as it were?" Both the brothers, the Cardinal and Francis Newman,
through the greater part of their lives had been restlessly searching for truth--for certainty--in
their faith. Calvinism had been the black cloud under which they had both been brought up.
If the obiter dictum of a celebrated Cardinal in the Roman Church be correct: "Give me the
child till he is seven years old, and he will be a Jesuit all his life," then indeed it shows
the tremendous power of habit, for it was only through much tribulation, through passionate
inward wrestlings with those terrible tenets, and through many searchings of heart, that either
brother made his way out of its toils at length. The Cardinal sought above all things Truth,
through authority; no one will forget those soul-stirring words of his in his Apologia pro
Vita Sua in which he speaks of the great peace that at last quieted his doubts and fears when
he was received into the Roman Church. To many of us Authority is the life-buoy which supports
us "o'er crag and torrent till the night is gone"; but Francis Newman could not believe in
it. "Authority is the bane," he would say, "of religion." He must see with his intellectual
eyes, to be saved. He must see and touch Truth for himself; his intellectual self must be convinced,
or he must stand outside the creeds he knew--a questioner still.

But he was honest and open in his aloofness. Did it mean loss of a distinguished brilliant
worldly career (as it did at Oxford in 1830)? Well, then the career must be lost, for he could
not bring himself to sign to doctrines which he did not believe. Did it mean unpopularity,
that he held certain views on Social Reform? Well, rather than compromise, rather than temporize,
he would stand out alone rather than yield an iota of what he held to be the true Progressive
Aims for People and Land. Only--and this was a flaw, and no small one either--he often wrote
his religious opinions so openly as to pain his readers. In many of his letters which I have
read there are expressions relating to the religious dogmas held by his correspondents which
are bluntly, unrestrainedly, bitterly used. It is true that often, at the close of a letter,
there follows a hope that he had not hurt his friends' feelings; but that he must, at all costs,
be open as to his own beliefs. But that apology only came as an after-thought, as it were as
an attempt to dress the wound which he himself had made, and is quite unable to do away with
the impression produced by the written word. Litera scripta manet.

In writing on "The National Church" thirty-three years after he had refused to sign the Thirty-nine
Articles, he said, with emphasis, "Truthfulness of the individual man is essential to moral
worth; but for this very reason the system of the Church must be lax in order to allow truthfulness
to individuals." This is curious reasoning, and subversive of the idea of Unity. Still, as
no one can deny that as Life implies Progression, so as regards the Churches, the inspired
words that they should be "led into all truth" surely allow for progression also into higher
regions of knowledge and methods of teaching. To allow for this spirit of progression Newman
held that a State Church should not be tied down to fixed conditions. "No general Church system
will go so far as the foremost minds.... All the moderate and wisest historians of the Anglican
Church have extolled its foundations. They have judged that, take it as a whole, the Reformation
went as far as the collective nation was then able to go." That it "was necessary to reform
it in the sixteenth century in order to harmonize it with the higher intelligence of the best
minds, so far as could be done without making it useless to the inferior minds." All this has
a certain truth, but when all is said, the fact forces itself upon one that after all it is
a matter for debate whether the Reformation was a "progressive" movement at all: whether it
did not in reality delay progression. For it is well known to-day that it was really managed
by the machinations of one of the most selfish and unprincipled of kings [Footnote: Whose conduct
at this time largely hinged on the refusal of the Pope to grant him his wished-for divorce
from Katherine.]--who was only progressive in the matter of wives--and by his ministers, who
were, many of them, men of vile characters and greed. As to motive, it is very patent to-day
what that was. It was that of the man who covets his neighbour's goods, i.e. the lands and
moneys of the monasteries and churches, and who whitewashes his sin when his desire is satisfied.
There is besides sufficient proof to-day that the great bulk of the unrepresented nation did
not regard this act of wholesale robbery as "lawful and necessary," nor that it "harmonized"
the Church "with the higher intelligence of the best minds."

To the end of his life (from his Oxford days to his death), of course, Newman was never greatly
in sympathy with the Anglican Church. He did not, even at the end, own himself bound by her
dogmas or obedient to her conditions. To go further into the question is, I think, not desirable
here. It is enough to say that though he was outside the visible Church, yet he was, in life
and spirit, "not far off". As was said of Stanley, "he believed more than he knew." His "life
was in the right," though his doubts and rationalism led him into unbeliefs, which only at
the close of his long life he renounced. And he had a far deeper longing for religious truth
than have many conventional Churchmen. As most of us are aware, this word "Emeritus" was originally
given to Roman soldiers who had served out their term and been discharged, on the understanding
of being given a settled sum of money which was practically the equivalent of our English half-pay.
The term is now used to designate a professor who has been "honourably relieved" of his office,
either because of physical disability or on account of a term of long service fulfilled. It
is, in effect, a retiring pension.

As will have been seen by letters from Newman which precede this chapter, he retired from the
office of Professor, but in no sense from his work of writing, studying, and lecturing. The
enormous number of books published will testify to this. His five volumes of Miscellanies,
his Reminiscences of Two Exiles, Europe of the Near Future, translation of the Odes of Horace,
[Footnote: Which did not meet with the approval of Matthew Arnold.] Handbook and Dictionary
of Modern Arabic, Kabail Vocabulary, Libyan Vocabulary, Text of the Iguvine Inscriptions, Christian
Commonwealth, History of the Hebrew Monarchy, Hebrew Theism, Early Life of Cardinal Newman,
Anglo-Saxon Abolition of Negro Slavery, not to mention many others, alone show how writing
largely filled his days and occupied his mind.

Besides all this work, however, he was for ever interesting himself in any cause or society
which applied to him for help, or seemed in any way to need a champion. Indeed, as Mr. Hornblower
Gill says of him, "Scholar, translator, mathematician, historian, political economist, political
philosopher, moralist, theologian, philanthropist, he was the most copious and various writer
of his time."

For a great many years before he died Newman lived at Weston-super-Mare. But two years before
his death, in October, 1897, when he was ninety-two years of age, he found himself, partly
owing to senile decay and partly owing to a bad fall he had had in the spring of the year,
and also to loss of eyesight, unable to take part in public affairs any longer, nor yet to
write as he had been used to do.

The unpublished article on "Land Nationalization" (which is printed in this volume) came into
the hands of Mr. William Jameson (to whose kindness I am indebted for it) in 1886, at which
time he was Hon. Secretary of the Land Nationalization Society, and Francis Newman, Vice-President.

Mr. Jameson, at the time of sending me the article, wrote me a letter from which I shall here
quote those parts relating to his friendship with Newman. He says, speaking of their first
meeting: "There was an instant fellowship that endears his memory to me. I was then about thirty-five,
and he past eighty. There was a quiet dignity in his manner, but no suggestion of old age."

One little anecdote may be of interest.

"We left a rather stormy committee meeting together, over which Professor Newman had presided.
The storm was due to one member who had a grievance against some others. Speaking of the pity
of this, Professor Newman said to me, 'You know how very strongly my brother and myself differ
in opinion; yet this has never created the slightest personal discord....'"

Several years later. Professor Newman wrote Mr. Jameson a letter (on finding out that he was
suffering from overwork and the fear of subsequent breakdown), saying these strong words of
sympathy: "I charge you to give it up. Save yourself for the years to come." He went on to
say that a friend of his own had kept working on for some cherished cause at the cost of much
mental pressure, and had ended his days in a lunatic asylum. Mr. Jameson adds that Newman's
words of counsel have often and often rung in his ears since they were first said to him, and
he attributes to the fact that he obeyed them, his having been saved from a physical breakdown.

"Save yourself for the years to come" is a counsel which we, who are workers, are so often
in danger of forgetting. Except in extreme youth, most men and women live far more in the present
and in the past than they do in the future which lies before them, so largely to be carved
into shape by their Present.

In April, 1887, Sir Samuel Walker Griffith, G.C.M.G., Chief Justice of Queensland since 1893,
Secretary for Public Instruction, Attorney-General from 1874-8, 1890-3, Premier of Queensland
from 1883-8, and 1890-3, was over in England, and Francis Newman was to have been introduced
by Mrs. Bucknall (mother of Mrs. Bainsmith, the distinguished sculptor [Footnote: Mrs. Georgina
Bainsmith, F.N.B.A., member of the Royal Society of Arts, and of the Honorary Council of the
North British Academy.] to whom I am indebted for the photo in this book of her bust of Francis
Newman, which now stands in University College, London) to Sir Samuel, at the latter's own
special desire. Unfortunately, Newman was unable to go with Mrs. Bucknall to Sir Samuel Griffith's
house, and this is his letter (kindly lent me, with Sir Samuel Griffith's reply, by Mrs. Bucknall).

"Dear Mrs. Bucknall,

"Since you tell me that time presses, I have no way but to give up to you my private copy of
(my) Christian Commonwealth, which I now send you. Very sorry I am that I could not accompany
you on Sunday to Sir Samuel Griffith's, but learning from you how graciously such a visitor
from the Antipodes expressed his desire to meet me, I am really sorry that I was not able in
person to attest my deep reverence and admiration as well as affection for Mrs. Butler, and
my conviction that only moral and spiritual influences can quell the demon of impurity, while
the despair which tries to keep it within limits by moderation and indulging it, is a folly
and an infatuation, especially when coupled with police licenses and police espionage. Our
ladies since 1869 have learned to detest the despotic police and the despotic doctor with an
intensity which time ever increases.

"They must conquer at last: the sole question is,--after how much more moral damage to young
men and women, and how much mental agony to our Christian martyrs.

"Our young men happily are joining this crusade. Alas, for those who mean to be Christian,
and do not know the elements of Christian sentiment. [Footnote: See "Marriage Laws" (1867),
"State Provision for Vice" (1869), and "Remedies for the Great Social Evil" (1869), in Vol.
III of F. W. Newman's Miscellanies.]

"I look to you to apologize for me to Sir S. G, for offering to him a book written by me...
one which my pen has defaced....

"Most truly yours,

"F. W. Newman. "Weston-s.-M., 19th April, 1887."

This is Sir Samuel Griffith's answer:--

"Brown's Hotel, "Dover Street, W., "21st April, 1887.

"Dear Mrs. Bucknall,

"Accept my best thanks for Professor Newman's writings on the Christian Commonwealth and the
New Crusade. I really feel ashamed to deprive you of the latter, and Professor Newman of the
former, but it would be most ungracious of me to refuse to accept them.

"Pray assure him that the value of the copy of the Christian Commonwealth is to be much enhanced
by the fact that it bears his autograph notes, and that I feel deeply honoured by the terms
in which he has been good enough to express himself in his note to you, which I have read with
great interest and which I enclose. I shall always regret that I had not the honour and pleasure
of meeting him at Weston, but my time was too short....

"Believe me, "Yours very faithfully,

"S. W. Griffith."

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Pennington were great friends of Newman's, and he often stayed with
them from time to time. By the kindness of Mrs. Pennington I am able to quote from some letters
written by him in 1881-90, and one much earlier, in 1875, in which he laments the death of
Mrs. Blackburn. Mrs. Blackburn was a sister of Mr. Pennington's, and one of the most munificent
of contributors to the United Kingdom Alliance in its early days, who (I am told by Mrs. Pennington)
often denied herself many luxuries in order to be able to make her contributions larger. She
describes her as one of the best women she had ever known.

Newman, in his letter to Mr. Pennington in 1875, says of Mrs. Blackburn:--

"I have known her ever since Michaelmas 1869, when the revelation was first made to us of the
Contagious Diseases Act; and at the Congress of Social Science at Bristol she was pleased to
receive my hospitality. My esteem for her was great and ever increasing...."

He goes on to say that his dread of cold and chills makes him fear a long journey, "though
it is mortifying to me not to meet you and Mrs. Pennington, and many other earnest friends
of this very important cause."

In 1881 Gladstone was Prime Minister, and stayed in office for five years. For almost the whole
of this time the country was hardly ever at peace. The Transvaal rebellion was started in 1880
and later our own troops were defeated by the insurrectionists; whereupon the Government promptly
surrendered the Transvaal.

About this time Newman writes to Mrs. Pennington:

"I am not a member of Cambridge University, nor indeed of Oxford University since 1830. If
I had kept my name on the book, I should have paid L6 a year, if I remember; that is, L300
in these fifty years; and as I never took my M.A. degree (because of the 39 Articles), I should
even then have no vote.

"I now act on the fixed rule not to take any long journey in the winter months, except from
real duty. Experience guides me, and I refuse even pressure from very friendly quarters....
I am melancholy about this Cabinet and Mr. Gladstone, and ashamed to be an Englishman. All
comes to me like a domestic calamity. And Parliament is so overworked that English misrule
cannot be corrected. I look on Ministers in the House as nearly our worst nuisance. But I must
not begin on our defective and evil institutions...."

Then in 1890 the letters begin more and more to show a change in his handwriting. He no longer
wrote in his original firm, clear style, but in a crabbed, cramped manner. His words now were
often difficult to decipher, and the letters of the words very shaky and undecided, bearing
witness very plainly of the trembling hand of Age. After mentioning the immense number of letters
which he had to answer, and how the trouble of replying was almost beyond his strength, he
says, "The sister-like affection of my honoured friend Anna Swanwick has ... again and again
won me to London;... but the place seems never to agree with me. Partly the whirl by night
and day, I suppose, is my bane; still more, the endless meeting of fresh and fresh small talk,
with the fatigue of listening, and the impression on my brain of miscellaneous memories when
I ought to sleep. In Oxford, from like causes, I became as it were 'daft,' and from forgetfulness
of the right words could not complete an English sentence. A like affection came on me in London
last summer, and I had to break away suddenly, to the disappointment of friends, because my
own sense of idiotcy was unbearable. Rest and sleep sufficed to restore me when I reached home.
The inability to get out the right word, if (for instance) suddenly asked 'to what station
I am going,' is enough to make me seem insane or half asleep.... I am increasingly aware that
my brain is my weakest part.... On the whole I am healthy, and agile in all movement as are
few men of my age (two doctors fancy that all men of eighty-five have pulses as disorderly
as mine!)...."

As regards the work on the Early Life of the Cardinal, which was published at this time, he says:--

"I am (under a sense of duty) writing concerning the late Cardinal quite a different side of
his character from that which for fifty years the public have heard. I knew him as eminently
generous as to money, but so fanatical as to embarrass judgment of his character. Another weakness
I confess and lament. I can write large. I begin everything with resolution so to write. But
as soon as I think only of the substance, and forget the manner, my writing so dwindles that
I can hardly read it myself. I suppose that weakness of the fingers is the cause. I see how
deficient they are of flesh."

In September, 1890, he wrote the following letters to Rev. J. K. Tucker, Rector of Pettaugh,
Suffolk, who was an old friend of Newman's, and to Mr. John Henry Tucker, [Footnote: Which
have been kindly lent me by Mr. John Warren.] from which I make quotations:--

"Ever since my brother's death (Cardinal J. H. N.) I am overwhelmed with letters, and now am
writing more and longer every day than my fingers can well manage, for publishers eager for my MS."

And again in October of the same year:--

"I am about to send to my publishers my painful contribution to the life of the late Cardinal,
my brother. I am conscientiously bound to write it, because in his fifty years' absence from
the sight of the public a new generation has grown up ignorant of the facts, and the attempt
is already begun to puff them off for their beauty of style..,. My age being eighty- five,
I know the truths, and must tell them. I shall be howled at as unbrotherly. My immediate business
now is to write to numbers of correspondents of whom you are one, whom I have necessarily neglected
while engaged in the most anxious work I have ever undertaken...."

As regards this book to which he alludes, his Early Life of Cardinal Newman, everyone feels
that in some sense it belittles the writer. For there was no real need of any sort that he
should have written it. From one brother to another, such an "early history" was, from some
points of view, a disloyalty--and a disloyalty not altogether free from embittered personal
feeling.

Was there no personal feeling roused in the lives of the two men? For the younger was practically
overshadowed by the elder. It was the elder one to whom the world kotow-ed. It was the elder
who---though the younger was so strikingly intellectual, and so strong a social reformer in
many ways-- carried the world's laurels, and who was finally given the "splendid funeral" to
which Francis Newman takes exception. And there was another reason too, which I believe exercised
a strong sway over his feelings to his brother in early youth, and brought into play, though
perhaps unrecognized by himself, the quality of emulation, followed by keen disappointment,
when failure, as regarded that incident, fell to his share. Be that as it may, it is impossible
to justify Francis Newman's writing thus of his brother, in the "early history" to which I
refer. Not even his keen desire for truth, which some declare to have been his motive power
in the matter, accounted for it.

"I should vastly have preferred entire oblivion of him" (of the Cardinal), "and his writings
of the first forty years, but that is impossible. In the cause of Protestants and Protestantism,
I feel bound to write, however painful to myself, as simply as if my topic were an old Greek
or Latin one." Later on he says, "I have tried to cherish for him a sort of filial sentiment,"
but "we seemed never to have an interest nor a wish in common." [Footnote: J. H. Newman once
in speaking of his brother, said, "Much as we love each other, neither would like to be mistaken
for the other." A sentence which seems to contain more meanings than one!] Perhaps no words
could more absolutely convey the lack of sympathy between the brothers, than do these. "I have
tried to cherish for him a sort of filial sentiment!" showing as it does, only too evidently,
that there was no spontaneity of affection between them. The only voice that called each to
each was that of old childish association and duty. Francis Newman could not be accused of
seeking personal distinction or fame for itself; witness his giving up a very promising career
at home in order to go on his missionary journey to Syria. Witness also his open denunciation
of many existing State abuses. Witness his unceasing crusades against the stronger party (whatever
it might be), which, in his opinion, oppressed and wronged the weaker section of the community,
unable of themselves to obtain justice and a hearing at the court of English public opinion.

All the more, then, is it difficult to explain away sentences such as these, which seem to
proceed from such an absolutely different personality than was Frank Newman's; and yet the
man who reads his memoirs of his brother finds them almost on every page, and cannot understand
their presence there.

"The existing generation has seen him" (he is alluding to the Cardinal), "through a mist; and
if my simple statement anywhere clears away that mist, they may almost resent my truth-speaking
as an impiety." As indeed they did--and do. Some of his own friends, indeed, urged him not
to publish the book, but he was obdurate.

"In my rising manhood I received inestimable benefits from this (my eldest) brother.... He
supported me, not out of his abundance, but when he knew not whence weekly and daily funds
were to come.... Yet a most painful breach ... broke in on me in my nineteenth year and was
unhealable." This was, of course, when Francis had been at college two years, for in those
days men very often went at the age of sixteen, as he did.

But the entries of 1822 and 1823, which last would be for Francis his "nineteenth year," give
no clue to the "painful breach" which "was unhealable"

Yet the fact that religious differences did begin between the two brothers very early in life
has been proved beyond all question. Proved also is it that religious discussions were of constant
occurrence between them, and that while J. H. Newman had always a strange leaning to Churchmanship,
Frank Newman's religious tendencies drew him strongly towards dissent and Unitarianism.

I think the latter mentions in his Phases of Faith that when he first came to college he found
his brother had hung up a picture of Our Lady in his younger brother's room, which he at once
removed, and refused to have on the walls.

The following letter is to Rev. J. K. Tucker; in it he describes himself as a "Conscious Christian"
"at the age of fourteen." But he has often described himself as holding Christianity without
Christ:--

"I hold firmly in memory, that in Easter of 1836 I wished to conduct my bride to Oxford, and
introduce her there to my mother and two sisters-- in those Coaching days we came from Bristol
and Cheltenham en route to Oxford. I did not plan the thought of staying a night at your father's
house, in which I suppose you and your wife were living. No doubt the scheme was planned by
my wife to meet her friend. The winter of our marriage had been one of wild snow; and the following
Easter was alike untimely. I just remember the fact of your kind hospitality fifty-four and
a half years ago, and the snow around us. In that visit to my mother (the last time I saw her),
my young wife caught inflammation of the lungs, which I did not perceive or understand--she
was so cruelly bled and cupped, that I think she never recovered it.

"It is very kind of you to keep alive in your heart the friendship of the two ladies. I perhaps
ought to state that about two and a half years after the death of that wife in 1876 I married
her ... friend.... Else I must have given up housekeeping, and know not into what family I
could have gone. My second wife is nineteen years my junior, yet in walking, not at all my
equal, but in affectionate care of me inestimable."

In June, 1892, he writes to J. H. Tucker, Esq.:--"I have not heard whether your father, like
me, is favoured by life continued, but I venture to send a copy of my hymns.... To-day I have
received a letter and book in Bengali from a believer in Theosophy, supposing me to be one
of them! Hence, I was not too early in telling my friends that since at the age of fourteen
I became a Conscious Christian, no unbelief has made my hymns less precious, mutato saltem
nomine.... My change more than fifty years ago was on Historical arguments mainly."

To return to the subject of Newman's last years at Weston-super-Mare. Perhaps the most graphic
descriptions of him as an old man are those contributed as "Reminiscences" by Mrs. Kingsley-Tarpey
and Mrs. Bainsmith. We know him there as a man who, though hardly ever free from some discomfort
or pain in those days, yet never failed in that old-world courtesy of which, alas! there is
so poor a supply in the world at the present day.

We know him as a man who was always eager to help those who came to him in trouble or in any
difficulty; nay, perhaps almost too ready to believe a cock-and-bull story of those who did
not mind, for their own ends, practising on his credulity.

A lady, a relation of the Newmans', said that once on coming to stay with him and Mrs. Newman,
she found a secretary in his study smelling strongly of brandy. When the secretary went out
of the room, Frank Newman drew their guest aside and said, "Ah, yes, it's a sad case, poor
fellow! He's getting away from the temptation of the public-houses."

But when later the secretary's rooms were searched, there were found numbers of brandy bottles
hidden away, to prove that he evidently had not "escaped from temptation"! This lady said also
that when Newman was old people not infrequently deceived him thus, and traded on his temperance
views, and that he had had two secretaries who obtained their post on false pretences.

To conclude this chapter I should like to give one striking instance of his tender sympathy
and respect for the poor and lonely. A poor charwoman had died at Weston-super-Mare who had,
I believe, often worked in Newman's house. He found that she had no friends to follow her body
to the grave, and so he himself, his wife and servants, walked to the funeral as mourners to
show her a last respect. It is the Idea represented by his act which makes it serve as an unforgettable
and very uncommon illustration of a championship of those unlucky ones who have few or none
to champion them.

Could any act speak clearer of the unfailing respect and reverence for women which distinguished
Francis Newman through life? Though all others should see the lonely funeral, there should
be but the one Good Samaritan who crossed over the road of ordinary, usual, Conventionalities
to show by his act that he recognized that class and position count for nothing before the
fact of the Universal Brotherhood of Humanity and Religion.

His name is indeed familiar to everyone as the greatest living authority on "English Gilds."
That book alone, by itself, is an invaluable gift to the nation. By that alone has he done
so signal a service to his countrymen that no gratitude could repay it.

It is true that, owing to ill-health, Mr. Toulmin Smith unavoidably left it unfinished at his
death, but there is sufficient fulness of information in it as it is, to make it worth more
than an infinity of other finished books of to-day.

As Father Gasquet says in his Parish Life in Medieval England, of the universality of these
"gilds" in this country: "Every account of a medieval parish must necessarily include some
description of the work of fraternities and guilds.... Their existence dates from the earliest
times." Mr. Toulmin Smith, indeed, says, "English Guilds are older than any kings of England....
They were associations of those living in the same neighbourhood, who remembered that they
had, as neighbours, common obligations." But it was not only because of his English Gilds that
he is remembered. In 1854, when he was thirty-eight years of age, he published another very
important volume, The Parish: its Obligations and Powers, its Officers and their Duties. This
was also a book towards the making of which had gone many long years of the most incessant,
careful research in old documents. It was one of those rare literary buildings, each stone
of which was laid with infinite exactitude and care. There is too much "jerry-building" to-day,
both in houses and books.

To Mr. Toulmin Smith some of the shallow books of to-day would represent literary "pariahs."
He would bar the very superficial method in which they were put together.

In The Parish and in many a pamphlet he set his face steadily against centralization. "The
ruling passion, the guide of his life, the dream of his youth, the glory of his manhood and
his later years, was the intelligent freedom of the people, based on 'the ancient ways.'" [Footnote:
Toulmin Smith, 1816 to 1869, by the late Samuel Timmins, Esq., of Birmingham. From this pamphlet
I have gained much information of his life.]

It is not difficult to understand how the friendship between Toulmin Smith and Frank Newman
began. For the decentralization of the nation, better forms of local self-government, were
also, each of them, a dream of the latter's, which he longed eagerly to see realized. There
was another keen common interest between them. Both ardently desired the freedom of Hungary.
Both wrote strongly in favour of it. Both warmly welcomed the exiled patriot, Louis Kossuth,
when he came to England to collect funds for the revolutionary movement of his country. But
long before Englishmen had made themselves au fait with the subject of the Hungarian revolt,
Toulmin Smith had, in his literary studies, understood the why and wherefore of the quarrel,
and had, by his words, roused his country to the true recognition of how urgent was the whole
question between Austria and Hungary. It must not be forgotten, too, that all his labours amongst
the tangled undergrowths of the literary land were undertaken in the leisure time he could
spare from his profession. For he was barrister-at-law of Lincoln's Inn, and he was also a
landowner in Birmingham (his native city), of property which had belonged to his ancestors
in succession for five hundred years. He had made himself a proficient in the Icelandic, Danish,
Norse languages, and was learned in the ancient history and politics of Denmark, Norway, Sweden,
Iceland, and Scandinavia. [Footnote: I quote from the pamphlet on Toulmin Smith, referred to
before.]

Mr. Timmins tells us that "while he maintained his own convictions with energy and power, he
had a kindly regard for all who differed from him, a large appreciation of genuine humour,
and he was in private life one of the most courteous, kindly, and genial of men. While he honoured
the past and the memory of his fathers, he was no blind adherent of a falling cause, no obstinate
opponent of the needful changes of the age.... Amid all the worry of a London lawyer's life,
when far away in the United States and stricken down by 'grievous illness,' almost his last
written words, 'I long to return to Birmingham,' express the passion of his life."

The friendship between Toulmin Smith and Newman probably began in 1849, in connection with
the formation of the Hungarian Committee. This I am told by Miss Toulmin Smith, to whose kindness
I am indebted for permission to use the following letters.

She believes that her father was introduced to Newman by Mr. John Edward Taylor (of Norwich).
She says she has a keen memory of Francis Newman coming to her father's house at Highgate at
that time, with Pulszky and other Hungarians, all eager in the "efforts for reform and constitutional
freedom and local government." But later on, she adds, many difficulties arose, and "about
1852 something connected with Louis Kossuth" (and the Hungarian movement) "caused a coolness"
between the friends, and their correspondence seems to have come to an end after September
in that year. Newman, owing to his University College engagements probably, I think retired
from his position on the Committee in October, 1849.

Francis Newman to Toulmin Smith.

"University College, Gower Street, "8th Jan., 1850.

"My dear Sir,

"I rejoice in your ward-mote exertions, and I beg you will not think that I am indifferent
to them."

[This refers to "a series of meetings during the winter of 1849-50 in one of the Wards of the
City of London; part of a movement endeavouring to rouse the citizens to a sense of civic local
duties."] [Footnote: I am quoting from notes re these letters, kindly supplied by Miss Toulmin
Smith.]

"On Wednesday I have to attend a meeting of our Professors here which will interfere with the
Wardmote.... I exceedingly want presence of mind, if there is any tumult, so as to remember
quickly enough what is to be said. Against a mob I could act with firmness, but I could not
speak with promptitude. Moreover, I suffer physically from the air of a crowded room, and never
go to hear a speech when there is a chance of my being able to read it."

The next letter I quote from is dated from Church Street, Old Eastbourne, August, 1850. It
begins with questions of canvassing at University College, and goes on to touch on the subject
about which he and his correspondent were at one: local land reform:--

"I have been here less than a week, but was at first unsettled, and my servant did not know
whither to send my letters. It is fine air, rather bleak downs" (this is an unappreciative
criticism of those exquisitely rounded outlines), "but with sunny days very pleasant and healthy.

"I am glad to hear of your Bristol excursion. If one could convert some sheriff of a county,
I should like to see the thing tested in some practical form, i.e. to assemble every month
a Parliament of County Freeholders to do some real work--as, if roads, or public lands, or
docks, etc., were to be dealt with; or to protest against a Private Bill in Parliament, and
claim to have the settling of it.

"I wish you knew Tom Taylor. He is an able man, desiring Reform, and is on the Public Health
Board in some legal capacity. He heartily wishes to develop the local powers, and will not
admit that they are practically undermining them. He fully assented to all I said in theory,
but thought I misconceived what they were actually doing.

"Believe me, sincerely yours,

"F. W. Newman."

Tom Taylor, journalist and playwriter, was born 1817 in Sunderland. For two years he was Professor
of the English language and literature at University College. He was called to the Bar of Inner
Temple in 1845. He acted as Secretary to the Board of Health and Local Government Act Office.
After the year 1846 he devoted himself chiefly to playwriting, and in 1874 was editing Punch.

The following letter is dated September, 1850:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is not Tom Taylor only who honestly believes the Sanitary Board to be engaged in teaching
Central and Local Powers to co-operate, and to be anxious to leave bona fide power of the most
important kind to the localities. Only a few days ago a friend of mine (a physician) was proving
to me this very point in them. We who are not lawyers do not understand points rapidly enough
(or cannot remember them) to see where a great principle is violated.

"I do not care about the Sanitary Board per se ... but what I think you are most wanted to
do is to show that, however much the Parliamentary franchise needs reform, yet a greater need
is that of limiting the functions of Parliament, and giving them to County Assemblies or Town
Motes.

"That word Mote is almost obsolete! May not the fact itself be a text to you? The modern substitute,
'meeting,' has no taxing powers, no legal officers, no constitutional power any more than a
mob.... The sands of the Whigs run fast out, and it is high time for the Radicals to have a
creed. Do you find any Chartists listen to you? If you cannot convert a Sheriff, I should be
as well pleased with a hundred Chartists, for they learn from one another by contagion."

In this year there was put forward a project for a society to make more local government possible.
This was later carried out under the name of the "Anti-Centralization Union."

In November, 1850, decentralization was again to the fore in the minds of Newman and Toulmin
Smith, as is shown here; and what the former says he puts very trenchantly, forcibly:--

"7 Park Village East, "R.P., Oct. 16th, 1850.

"My dear Smith,

       *       *       *       *       *

"I can speak with much freedom and energy (but no wit) on a subject on which I have information
and feel interested: but I cannot make an after- dinner speech of compliment, nor talk on a
subject which I do not feel I have very maturely considered.... In regard to local government,
I think you would disarm the fears or scruples of many excellent and wise persons if you made
prominent that you do not wish to return to the Middle Ages, or disown that progress of society
which has knit England into a single State. I think it high time to make an outcry against
a system of infinite legislation, in which we are subjected to laws too numerous for anyone
to be acquainted with; yet I doubt whether we shall get a hearing with the most influential
minds unless we make it clear that we fully understand that the progress of society forbids
our returning to the simplicity of law which the good Saxons had under Alfred and his successors.
The gap is vast, and there is no danger whatever of our becoming too simple; yet this fanatical
aim will be so surely imputed to us (in days when such men as Lord John Manners in Politics
and the Puseyites in Church are afloat) that it is not needless to disown it even to candid
and strong-headed hearers.

"I am asking Froude to dine with me on Tuesday, the 29th instant, at 6 o'clock, to meet you
and some other friends whom I want to bring together: as I believe he will then be in London....

"Thursday, 6 o'clock.--I have just got Froude's reply, Yes: so please to say Yes, too.

"In haste, sincerely yours,

"F. W. Newman."

As to the real meaning of the word "Democracy" Newman deals with it thus:--

"What is Democracy?... Show that if one town governs itself by universal suffrage, that is
Democracy, so long as the people really exercise interest in their public concerns; but that
if a whole country, as France, elects an Assembly, that is not Democracy, but Empire delegated
to an Oligarchy, because the people at large cannot understand, follow, and control public
measures.

"I do not mean to dictate this, or any one mode; but I feel strongly that you must put a sharp
curb on all invective until you have fully developed the difference between the common Radicalism
and your own views. Pulszky says he is satisfied you were not understood at the Radley Hotel
dinner. Radicals are almost as slow as Tories to admit a new thought.

"I should also like to have the question brought out: 'What has been, historically, the Service
performed by Monarchy and Centralization?' The answer is: 'It has formed nations into larger
masses, and lessened or destroyed border war.' The inference is, that the great and peculiar
function of the Central Government is, in fact, what the American Congress does, viz. to maintain
peace at home between the several States, and make the country One in resisting hostile attack.
To do more than this, should be rather exceptive, and confined to subordinate matters, else
Centralization becomes mischievous...."

And again, later in the year, in answer to a letter from Mr. Toulmin Smith:--

"What I said of 'Democracy' was meant as argumentum ad hominem to that side, not as intending
to identify myself with it, but I see the danger you speak of. Query: Would 'popular government'
do? Even Conservatives wish for a Commonwealth and for Constitutional Government. No doubt
Unity is the true word, not Centralization; but I think this Unity without Centralization would
never have been coveted by kings, so that in fact we have bought the advantage of Unity at
the expense of submitting to (more or less of) Centralization."

Twelve years later, John Ruskin put forth a method which cannot fail to commend itself to every
reasonable mind; a method which, if treated from the decentralization point of view, seems
to offer good solution to the crux of English pauperism, at any rate, if dealt with under the
aegis of Local government. That "bona fide power of the most important kind to the localities"
as Newman said, should be conceded; that the "Government schools" of which Ruskin speaks should,
in each place, be directly under Local Control.

The passage to which I am alluding is from Unto this Last:--

"Any man, or woman, or boy, or girl out of employment should be at once received at the nearest
Government School" (training schools, at which trades, etc., should be taught) "and set to
such work as it appeared, on trial, they were fit for, at a fixed rate of wages determinable
every year; that being found incapable of work through ignorance, they should be taught; or
being found incapable of work through sickness, should be tended; but that being found objecting
to work, they should be set, under compulsion of the strictest nature, to the more painful
and degrading (?) forms of necessary toil; especially to that in mines, and other places of
danger (such danger being, however, diminished to the utmost by careful regulation and discipline),
and the due wages of such work retained, cost of compulsion first abstracted, to be at the
workman's command so soon as he has come to sounder mind respecting the laws of employment."

LETTERS TO MRS. KINGSLEY

"Weston-super-Mare, "4th Nov., 1877.

"Dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"I hurried home from Manchester to meet an expected widow friend here, who has just left me.
Somehow or other she and her little girl engrossed me much, and made me neglect my intended
warm thanks for your very kind letters, and for your phrases even of affection, to which, be
assured, I am not inattentive or apathetic, though I imperfectly know how to respond to that
which I do not seem to have duly earned.

"Your children were as kind and attentive to me as you could have been yourself; but I much
regret not to have met you and Mr. Kingsley, to whom I beg you to give my kind regards, and
believe that it is always a pleasure to meet you, and that I am necessarily proud of having
made so fruitful a convert ... though our severe ones will remind me that you do not wholly
abstain from fish!

"Believe me, yours heartily,

"Francis W. Newman.

"I am bringing out a dreadful pamphlet!"

"28 Cumberland Terrace, "Regent's Park, London, "25th May, 1878.

"Dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"Concerning the controversy about increase of population, I forgot to add what I think has
moral weight, that the theory which makes men bewail every increase on the ground that at length
the earth will be overfilled would be in argument just as powerful if the size of the earth
were increased to that of Jupiter, or to that of the sun. It simply deduces from the axiom
/ fact that any finite area whatsoever will at length be overfilled by a constant unchecked
increase--a reason why we should actively check the increase NOW and HERE--a deduction wholly
void of good sense.

"Again, I did not mention what reduces John Mill's school to something worse than negative
error, the certainty that their doctrine will not be obeyed by any but those whom we would
desire to have the peopling of the earth, viz. the people of most intellect. If the highly
intelligent and conscientious obey John Mill, we evidently must look forward to the peopling
of every land by the most backward and least intelligent part of the nation.... Malthus was
shocked by the system of encouraging very early marriage and large families for the mere sake
of getting men as food for gunpowder: but if people marry (say young men at 27 or 28, not at
17 or 18) he denounces as unnatural and unimaginable that society or law should frown upon
a family as being too numerous. In every moral aspect of the case, John Mill is opposed to
Malthus, and his followers have no right to call themselves Malthusians. I feel confident that
human population would waste if every man adopted the doctrine either of John Mill or of certain
American theorists....

"With best regards to all yours, "I am, yours most sincerely,

"F. W. Newman."

"15 Arundel Crescent, "Weston-super-Mare, "12th Feb., 1880.

"Dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"Your kind letter, yesterday received, gives me great concern. I never wept through simple
grief, but once in my life through grief at ingratitude; and I think I never felt so painful
a pang in my heart. I can well imagine that a sense of another's ingratitude may terribly overthrow
anyone's health. I believe my dear sister, whose death you so kindly mention, suffered in part
from excess of anxiety through being made executrix to her husband's will, involving great
perplexity, but also from the fraud of an old and trusted clerk. Her husband had several small
strokes of paralysis, and for two and a half years before his death probably had not his mind
always perfect. He delegated many confidential writings and documents to the clerk, who with
his wife was much respected by the whole family. After his death his accounts were inexplicable.
Three of his sons worked hard at them for weeks together, and at last discovered frauds, by
which the clerk had not only embezzled money-how much they know not, but counted above the
thousand-and had depreciated the property in selling it by representing it as having been for
years a declining business: this was to hide his pilferings. When charged with it, the man
became raving mad. Lawyers knew not how to recover property from a maniac who could not defend
himself: and my sister was in such grief for the man's wife, that she knew not whether to wish
to recover a farthing. How the matter stood she either did not know or did not like to tell
me-to the last; but the mysterious disease which ate away her strength, I in my private mind
ascribe to anxiety from this affair and her sudden and strange responsibility as trustee for
ladies.

"This dear sister was the fondest object of my boyish affections; and through life she was
the self-sacrificing, devoted character which from earliest years she displayed. Five sons,
one daughter, and two daughters- in-law were present at her death, all fervent in love and
duty. Her husband was one of ten children, and all that family were singularly united. Her
only daughter will now live with two of her aunts, who have been almost at her side since birth.
My sister was so long in a very precarious state that I did not expect her to survive the winter
of 1878- 9, and at last death came as a relief and release.

"It has always troubled me that I have so little power to promote the industrial interests
of friends. When I was a professor in London I used to be entreated to find pupils for tutors
(when I had not half as many pupils as I desired for myself) and to recommend others to publishers
and editors, when I could neither get a publisher to risk a shilling on what I wrote, nor more
than one editor to accept an article from me. Now, I would most gladly recommend ---- ----;
but it is well to say frankly that no one ever asks me, nor do I at all know who wants anything,
nor can I guess in what direction to inquire. But be sure I shall not forget, if the occasion
opens.

"I yesterday heard awful tidings of widespread murrain in the sheep of these parts (Somerset
and Monmouth and all between) ascribed to last summer's wet. One farmer (as a specimen) has
lost 1000 sheep; the hotel- keepers are bidden to beware of mutton. This I have from an associate
of our society.

"Indoors I am happy; but I am so gloomy for the prospects of the country that I do not like
to talk about them. Kind regards to Mr. Kingsley.

"I am, most truly yours,

"F. W. Newman."

"Weston-s.-M., 19th Oct., 1880.

"Dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"Behold me (in imagination, as I really am) still at home on our great vegetarian day.

"I warmly thank you for your kind letter, and was purposing to write, but in heaps of letters
could not find yours with the new address, which I have now entered in my book.

"I have finally resolved not to bustle about so late in the year, and have resigned my place
as President in consequence. But it is reported to me that the Executive will prefer to exempt
me from attendance in this month....

"Public affairs make me very melancholy. Mr. Gladstone is not to blame for the state of Ireland;
but both in Afghanistan with India and in South Africa, I think he has allowed his colleagues
to neutralize his public professions, and has made compromises most calamitous.

"The ministry seems to me not worthy of the Parliament. I do not doubt that the plutocracy
in the next ten or even five years will have a heavy and deserved fall, but with how much convulsion
and suffering in Ireland, in India, and in South Africa, all inflicting miseries on us--you
will live to see: I fear it cannot be small, and that our institutions, called Fundamental,
will be very gravely shaken.

"I honour your Piscarian position, and with our society would recognize it; but the discovery
that you all eat fish forbids me to glory that I have converted a family to our Rules! With
kind regards to Mr. Kingsley and the rest, I am,

"Your sincere friend,

"F. W. Newman."

"Weston, "26th April, 1883.

"Dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"... I am apparently assuming the position of one who (like the Pope) makes an ALLOCUTION to
all who will listen. Each of us may imitate him. I have given away eighty copies to make my
allocution known. I suppose I ought to have sent one to you, but circulation is hard work.
Alas, it costs a shilling! Can you get it put into any Manchester Library? (Trubner my publisher.)
It is called A Christian Commonwealth and is as much against our unjust wars as a Quaker could
desire.

"In haste, ever yours,

"F. W. Newman." "Kind regards to all yours."

"Weston-super-Mare, 9th April, 1884.

"My dear Friend,

"... My dismay and disgust at the proceedings of a ministry, of which Mr. Gladstone must bear
the full responsibility--which indeed he accepts by defending all its atrocious proceedings--have
disinclined me to write, more than I must, on any but private or literary topics....

"A new struggle is made by this unscrupulous ministry to retain the execrable C.D. Acts.

"I am sorry that the Bishops have again turned the scale in the unrighteous retention of the
law against a man's marriage to his deceased wife's sister. When do the Bishops rally against
sanguinary injustice and dire oppression?  "I have just had two hundred and fifty copies struck
off of the enclosed leaflet, which aims to suggest to the haters of unjust war, especially
Quakers, in what direction they ought to work, viz. to lay the foundation of an entirely new
political party. No candidate for a vote could complain that he was humiliated by being required
to profess himself a VOTARY OF JUSTICE.

"I throw these leaflets in this and that direction as feelers. Of course more can be printed
when wanted....

"With best regards, "I am, yours,

"F. W. Newman."

"15 Arundel Crescent, Weston-super-Mare, "3rd Jan. , 1887.

"Dear Friend,

"You need not think me dead yet; but you easily might, so estranged am I to Manchester.

"Yet I at least have life enough to be able to wish all welfare and blessing to you and yours
in this New Year. The accumulation of letters has always thwarted me when I have tried to find
your last letter.... I seem to remember that you then told me of the marriage of your eldest
daughter and of the literary efforts of another. Since then we have had the overthrow in the
W.K. of the Safe-Harlot-Providing Law, and indeed it must have been as early as 1885; and the
episode of Mr. Stead and his prosecution was later! A great moral change has been wrought (for
the better, I say) in our ladies by that wickedness of our ruling classes with the aid of wicked
medical theories provoking indignant protest. To drag printed matter into daylight is no doubt
very offensive; but without sweeping it away no sound health is to be expected. The ladies,
I fancy, will now, more perseveringly than men, keep in activity the Purity Society. And if
some of them seem a little too active--I ask, how can this odious system of sin, crime, and
cruelty be crushed without hot enthusiasm? And where was enthusiasm hot without partial error?
Fire burns!

"This reminds me of my sending you (at your request) a load of anti- vaccination literature,
and I am wondering whether you were able to turn it to service. THAT monstrous iniquity must
come down; but the medical schools and your Irishmen block out our movement.

"I wonder how you and Mr. Kingsley look on Mr. Gladstone. I never condemned his measure, though
I have always (for years back) declined to aid a Parliament for all Ireland and still more
the expulsion of Irish deputies from the English Parliament.... But I did not intend here to
enter Irish politics further than to indicate that while I am anti- Gladstonian, I cry 'Ireland
for the Irish,' 'India for the Indians,' 'Egypt for the Egyptians,"--come what may to the English
'Empire'! [But I have never read in history of any empire being ruined or harmed by Justice,
Mercy, or Purity.]

"I suppose I must say, 'Alas!' that the older I become [81 last June] the more painfully my
creed outgrows the limits of that which the mass of my nation, and those whose co-operation
I most covet, account sacred. I dare not (unasked) send to friends what I print, yet I uphold
the sacred moralities of Jew and Christian [Hindoo and Moslem] with all my heart. Two mottos,
or say three, suffice me:--

    "The Lord reigneth.

    "The righteous Lord loveth righteousness.

    "The Lord requireth Justice, Mercy, and Sobriety of thought, not
    ceremony or creed.

"Accept for all of you my warm wishes. "Your Vegetarian friend of old,

"F. W. Newman."

[No date. Probably 1st March, 1888.]

"My dear Friend,

"What a violent winter it has been in very many places! Nor is it all over. After the awful
'blizzard' in New York, and its minor horrors elsewhere, and the many fatal avalanches, I see
this morning fresh inundations in Hungary from sudden melting of snow. The sudden chill which
smote your husband was but a mild type, it seems, of the death fatal to so many. Other deaths
from cold, reported to us, have reminded us of your great and sudden loss; yet what had I to
say to you? I have thought that the echo from your son in Calcutta may have made your grief
break out afresh.... I trust that time, which has not yet at all had softening powers, has
not added any fresh bitterness on a fuller realization....

"Affectionately yours,

"F. W. Newman."

 "Alas! my dear friend, that your generous son Leonard had not more
experience how vain is a man's swimming power against the current of an
ordinary river. I have known this in the Tigris, in the Nile, and even
in the Thames, though the bathing men in several places called me a first-
rate swimmer. Longfellow in 'Hiawatha' has touching and powerful lines on
disasters never coming singly, but as vultures accumulating round a huge
carcass.

"Wisdom comes too late for the individual; yet it is not useless for others to inquire after
causes. Did your husband pride himself on not wearing a specially thick coat in winter and
roughing it as do some vegetarians?... I rather believe that man is a tropical animal, hairless,
made for a climate warmer than ours, and needing much aid from clothing.

"Ever yours,

"F. W. Newman. "Herewith I return your interesting scraps. "21st March, 1888."

Extract from a letter, 7th Jan., 1889.

"More and more I believe, that as our clearest DUTY is in this world, it is wholesome that
our most eager interest (if unselfish) should be in this world and not (with Count Tolstoi)
so full of eagerness for immortality, that it is an effort with him to refrain from suicide!
I accept with grateful submission whatever of after-life the Supreme Lord gives--or does not
give. My desire cannot affect His actions, and in fact I never have been able to work myself
into any desire for a future so undefined and unimaginable. This will show how ill I deserve
a little of (shall I say) praise or compliment in your last.

"With kind salutes to your daughters, "I am, your sincere friend,

"F. W. Newman."

"The Firs, West Cliff Gardens, "Bournemouth, "17th Aug., 1889.

"My dear Friend,

"How extraordinary you must have thought my silence, after your kind letter from this place.
Perhaps you imputed it to illness. That is not true. Yet it may be called half true: for illness
of my wife is one topic, and increased weakness makes me slower in the smallest matters--such
as handling a book, or duly buttoning a shirt or coat: while I have been dealing with proof-sheets
from always two printers, sometimes four. My day is cut short at each end--for in the colder
months I cannot sit at my desk until my fire is lighted, and my eyes are wearied before evening
candlelight. Meanwhile my unwilling correspondence has rather increased than lessened....

"I am achieving a long hoped for work, in which of course I have to pay the printers--i.e.
to leave in some connective available form whatever miscellaneous important printing I have
ever published, ethico-political, theological, economical, historical, aesthetic, critical,
mathematical: indeed, the mathematical is all new, not reprint.

"I take as vivid an interest in all that concerns public welfare, of England, Ireland, and
foreign countries, and hope I ever shall. More than ever I see that our best work for God is
to work for God's creatures, not excluding gentle brutes.

"Is it possible that you are even now here? That would be very good news.

"Your lazy friend, with much apology,

"F. W. Newman."

"Northam, near Bideford, "19th May, 1890.

"My dear Friend,

"Your two letters were indeed doubly welcome, and brought me virtual pardon for two neglects,
of which the worst was, the keeping locked up (and still in prison!) the letters which you
bade me to return...

"The chief want of Cornwall, I was told by an old resident, is soil; the rock is too near the
surface. Herein art will do much in a few generations. Attica and Palestine--stony soils--bore
plentiful pine fruit. Our Channel Islands utter the same thing. In England the landlord is
the effectual starver of the soil. Bishop Stubbs, a first-rate authority on agriculture, explains
the immense excess of crops raised acre by acre under peasant culture, 'because the farmers'
land is labour-starved.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"15th July, 1891.

"... The state of Ireland under existing factions would much have discomposed your patriotic
husband. As for me, who cannot pretend Irish patriotism, things now look better.... But the
aspect on the whole is to me far more encouraging than alarming. The reign of false aristocracy
is fast declining; the rising powers everywhere ask for justice between orders and (as never
before) between the two sexes, and the power of women is about to signalize itself in most
valuable directions--for the benefit of both sexes, and for the first time to claim nationally
that moral and Christian Right shall be the aim of Law.

"But I confess if we wish to attract ancient nations to Christianity, we have first to reconsider
our creed fundamentally, a terrible summons to Protestants as well as Catholics....

"I have not with me your last, and I hope I do not evade any question.

"With best wishes to you and all yours, "I am, your earnest friend,

"F. W. Newman."

"27th Nov., 1891.

"My dear Mrs. Kingsley,

"So many of my juniors die, that my friends when they do not hear of me may well fancy that
I am decrepit and declining. That is not true; only my muscular strength is less. I cannot
walk so far nor work so much, but no vital organ seems to fail; nor can I write so much or
so long....

"The longer I live, the more hopeful and more interesting I find the whole world. In spite
of crime, folly, and misery, the massive nations seem to improve. The good--i.e. our sounder
party--become wiser and stronger, as well as in proportion more numerous. Our worst misrule
has been in Ireland and in India. The crisis in Ireland seems to me turned for the better.
Misrule in India is met not by insurrection, but by constitutional and loyal, widely demanded
Reform, such as, I feel convinced, the enlarged franchise in England will support too warmly
for the old routine to resist. All the churches are seeking moral reform.... Reforms lately
too great to think of, we now calmly contemplate as certainties of a near future. Lord Herschell,
an ex-Chancellor, pronounces that the legislative power of the House of Lords is an evil unbearable.
Scotland and Wales are ready to demand abolition of the State Church. The English party called
Liberal (I think miscalled) desire the same, and within the last ten years I come to think,
rightly. Other reforms, too numerous to detail, cannot be trifled with or the nation be blinded.
While I wonder at all this, I see that Scandinavia and Germany, even Belgium and France, are
moving for moral objects, and also against war.

"Is there not plenty in all this to draw forth hope, joy, and thankfulness, and in every conviction,
that amidst all our tumult the Lord reigneth? I rejoice that I have lived to see this day,
and expect to rejoice more while I live.

"How you have fared this year I seem not to know, but believe that you have my earnest good
wishes for you and yours.

"I am, yours most truly,

"F. W. Newman."

"Bournemouth (undated).

"My dear Friend,

"Your letter of July 12th from Margate has reached me here, to which place I came because my
wife five years ago gained such health here, and all the year and past autumn she has never
felt sure of health at home. I cannot think she manages herself rightly, yet she believes,
with no small reason, that I am not a safe traveller without her; yet of the two I seem the
stronger. She is better here, perhaps, because she is more in the outer air. I must add, I
too have recovered from my fall, and am fairly well, though I do not pretend to be strong yet
(as the French would say), Que voulez vous? when I am past 88.... I am glad to learn about
your children. I have good hope concerning the coming future, though the foes of progress call
us faddists because we think national morality paramount to vicious routine. May but the Good
prevail!

"... I now argue for Fish-food as not to be forbidden or frowned on, but do not lessen my esteem
of our Manchester V. E. M. Society, nor lessen my contribution to it, though they can only
receive me as an outsider.

"I turn a vegetarian argument against them on the Fish question, but I have no time now for it.

"I am bringing out another volume on Paul of Tarsus, which, when complete, I hope to send you.

"With warm salutes, I am yours,

"Francis Wm. Newman. "My wife desires her kind thought to be named."

"1st Nov., 1892.

"My dear Madam,

"I have not time nor strength to search out your last kind letter, which perhaps informed me
when your two sons from India were expected and when they were to leave you....

"I do fairly well, if I potter on in my old solid routine. My 88th year makes pretension to
strength; but when so many moans are heard about neuralgia, not to say influenza, I feel myself
much favoured by the total absence of pain, except merely what is incidental to a thin body
with some sharp bones. In rising from bed I am aware of small discomforts, which I shake off
on standing upright, and similarly after sitting in one posture. I have not enough suffering
to claim pity. I can wish the same to all my friends, especially to my wife.

"To my judgment the world ... is in an entirely novel state, which forebodes a wholly new future,
and requires new thoughts, new policy in our rulers, with much higher MORALITY if grave overthrow
is to be averted.

"The United States of America ought to be our leader in chief, but mainly through ... the dreadful
colour war that is year by year waxing worse. The only thing clear to me is, that their home
calamity must for a long while hinder their giving aid to the world. The policy in Russia is
so fatal, and its result presages an overturn of the scale of the France of 1793. This makes
all foresight impossible, except that every State is safest which least violates the laws of
universal morality. That England can avoid great retribution seems to me scarcely probable.
But as soon as morality is allowed to speak loud in high places, I believe our main dangers
will quickly disappear. The prospect cannot be defined, but is to me of intense interest. Britain
seems to me immensely superior to its own ruling classes in goodness, and the good is sure
at length to prevail, to the benefit also of your Ireland.

"With kindest best wishes, I am, "Most truly yours,

"F. W. Newman."

CHAPTER XXI

LANDOWNERS AND WAGE RECEIVERS BY FRANCIS W. NEWMAN CONTRIBUTED BY MR. WILLIAM JAMIESON

[Presumably written in 1886, when Newman was Vice-President of the "Land Nationalization Society."
It was kindly sent me by Mr. William Jamieson, who was Hon. Sec. to the above Society at the
time. I wish to express here my sense of gratitude to him for much help and information regarding
his own work with Newman in 1886.]

The tendency of English industry for a long time back has been to exalt the landlord, or chief
man in any locality, into land owner (a phrase implying that no one but he has legal right
in the land), and to convert a larger and larger fraction of the nation into wage receivers,
liable to be cast out of work either at the simple will, or by the imprudence or misfortune
of their paymaster. In order to analyse the natural results of this juncture, we must follow
the method received in Political Economy, of taking an imaginary case, far simpler than any
which is actually met in human life, so as to make all the conditions of the problem known
to us by hypotheses. Let us suppose an island, secluded commercially from the rest of the world,
and peopled by a vast working lower class under three small ruling castes. The island is physically
divisible into three parts: first, marshy coast land, abounding with shrubs, canes, rushes
of many kinds, from which human garments of various sorts can be made; secondly rolling land,
eminently suitable for the cultivation of grain, and of certain fruit trees and roots on which
the whole population live; thirdly, the mountain land, on which are timber trees and copses
affording firewood; also quarries of stone, gravel pits, lime rocks, and mines of copper and
iron. Of the marshy coast land, the second lordly caste is acknowledged to be absolute owner;
the first or highest caste owns the rolling land, which is the arable and cultivated portion;
and the third caste owns the mountain land and its products. From the first comes the food
of the native, from the second comes the clothing, from the third the houses. It is possible
that gravel, lime, and stone can be found in rolling land, and that fruit trees either exist
or if planted would bear fruit in the marsh land, some even in the mountains; but the ruling
castes follow ancient custom, and the working caste has no right to innovate. They work under
and for their masters, and receive wages in kind--that is, as an equivalent for their work,
a definite but liberal supply of the three necessary articles--food, clothes, and house accommodation.
Money does not exist, nor tame animals in our island. To add sharpness to our imaginary case,
and to make argument intelligible, we must assign definite numbers to the working population;
but from whatever numbers we start, the argument and the practical result will be the same.
Let us suppose the first caste to employ ten thousand cultivators; the second caste to employ
three thousand knitters and plaiters; the third caste one thousand masons, miners, and carpenters.
Each of these castes furnishes to the workman such rude tools as are necessary, but these remain
the property of the masters, not of the workmen.

The soil and climate being favourable, and the habits of the people simple, a few hours of
work suffice; and like many barbarians, they have been accustomed to much idle time, which
they employ in sport; moreover, by the connivance or good of the superior caste, they have
been accustomed to pick or steal largely the leaves of an intoxicating grass, and the masters
to whom the whole produce of their labour belongs, have large superfluity after paying their
wages; hereby the lordlings easily feed domestic servants and exhibit themselves in gay clothing
with superior dwellings.

But the tendency of the workers to drunkenness shocks a certain religious preacher, who traces
the vice to idleness and sport. He goes about the island urging upon them a higher morality.
They widely receive him as a divine messenger, and under his exhortation they become more industrious
and more conscientious in their work; not only working more hours, and curtailing their sport,
but in every hour using more diligence. In consequence, the masters are enriched by stores
somewhat embarrassing. Grain comes in, more than they want: their barns begin to overflow.
Garments are too many for the warehouses. Huge piles of timber block up the yards, besides
masses of stones, and heaps of other superfluous material. Before long, the masters conclude
that their simplest course for checking supply is by lessening the number of the workmen. The
increased diligence of the people (we may suppose) has made the work of three men on an average
as efficient in all tasks as were five men previously. Thus sixty do the work of a hundred;
and the masters discover that what had been the normal average produce will be maintained,
if they dismiss forty out of every hundred dependents. Not only so; but retaining their usual
surplus, which we may call their rent, at the old level, they will be able to raise the wages
to these workmen whom they still keep, since instead of a hundred they will have only sixty
now to feed and clothe; and only for these do they feel morally responsible. Forthwith they
actually dismiss forty out of every hundred. Each landowner cares for his own workmen as by
a sort of social duty; but for those who are discharged he feels no responsibility. In the
average result the landowners who had had a hundred workmen, but now only sixty, take as increased
rent the food and clothes of ten, and use it to add ten servants to their domestic retinue,
but add to the wage of the sixty whom they keep at work, the food and clothes previously received
by thirty of the forty whom they have dismissed. Thus they raise wages by one half--that is,
they pay in the proportion of one hundred and fifty instead of one hundred.

The labourers, clothworkers, and builders who are dismissed (the remaining thirty out of every
hundred) being without work and without houses, are at once in a state of beggary. Only by
betaking themselves to some new industry will they be able to get a livelihood, and it rests
with them to devise their new industries. Meanwhile they can only subsist on charity, which
is doled out to them chiefly by the fellow feeling of those of their class who are still in
work. The increased wages of these enable them to be liberal; in fact, the increase has on
an average been just what the discarded men previously earned.

A parliament of the higher classes is in due course assembled, and a member came (?) to the
distress of so many men out of work. But a distinguished literary writer, member of a Politico-Economical
Club ... eases the consciences of the higher castes by pointing out that in fact the island
is much increased in prosperity. Rents had, no doubt, risen, but only as one mark of prosperity,
for their increase was in a much smaller percentage than that of the rise of wages. These had
increased by the very remarkable ratio of 50 per cent. It was true that many men were out of
work. That was to be regretted; but it was a passing phenomenon. They would before long find
work somewhere or somehow.

The discarded workmen hitherto had had no great variety in their tasks, and were always set
to work by others without exercise of their own inventive powers. Yet out of a large number
of men there are always many of good talents, some of original genius. The idea of many new
forms of industry springs up. Oil for food has been hitherto raised from the olive tree; now
an ingenious man would extract oil from several shrubs or trees, and make candles, or else
oil for lamps. A second wishes to plait carpet socks, sandals, and umbrellas. A third would
make boats, with ropes, and oars, and sails. A fourth would add wheelbarrows and casks to the
baskets already in use. A fifth has noticed wild ponies on the mountains, and desires to catch
them and make needful harness. A sixth would plant fruit trees in gardens, and not take the
chance of wild fruit. But on every such plan they are at once checkmated: first, because all
these natural products are accounted the absolute property of the upper castes, and must be
bought; next, most of their new schemes need a yard or a garden and right of access by a road,
and workshops, beside a dwelling-house. But the land, as well as the raw produce, is inaccessible
to them; yet on them, hungry and destitute, is laid the task of originating the new trades.
Can this seizure of the land and its natural products as the private property of a limited
number of families be morally justified? In its origin was it attained by violence and robbery?
Else, has it grown up by gradual and cunning perversion of law? These three questions point
at the principle of landowning. Another question rises: Is it good for a nation for the great
majority to retain life only on condition that there is someone ready to pay wages for their
work and able to discard them? In the imaginary case thus drawn the increased industry of the
workers which produced superfluity is the beginning (to them) of change for the worse. Their
spontaneous industry causes overproduction, and leads to the dismissal of many workmen. Our
economists treat every increase of productiveness as an unalloyed good. It is good, provided
that men are not kept idle by it. Evidently there is no national gain from sixty men doing
the work of a hundred, if thereby forty men are tossed into unwilling idleness, and must live
on charity, some of the forty losing all habits of industry, and perhaps becoming criminal.
This is a national loss.

Further, our hypothesis that the men voluntarily become more industrious may be called an extreme
and unlikely case. For that very reason it has been here adopted. The ordinary causes give
us a fortiori argument, because they are ever in action. Skill naturally increases among men
employed continuously on any work. In a settled, industrious nation small improvements accumulate.
In modern Europe the cultivation of mechanics and chemistry conduces to a steady improvement
in tools, a cheapening also of tools, and introduction of such more complex tools as we call
"machines," by dint of all which human work constantly becomes more effective, so that fewer
and fewer workmen are needed for the same amount of produce. Thus the normal and natural order
of things, wherever the wage-system exists tends to dispense with some, or many, of the workmen.
This is a clear gain if the men thus displaced are instantly taken up for some other service.
But this seldom can happen; often their old skill is made useless, and before they can learn
a new trade they become demoralized, and many perish. The loss of their industrial position
is a grievance and a national mischief which our "Economists" are prone to undervalue, and
pass unnoticed.

Let us contrast the case of men who work not for a master, not for wages, but for themselves;
holding their own little homestead, from which they cannot be driven out. Such is the case
of back-settlers in the Far West of the United States. Each perhaps carries out with him a
box of stout clothes, some agricultural tools and important seeds, and either squats on a bit
of wild land, or by a very easy payment buys possession of the Federal Government. This bit
of land the settler counts his own. With the aid of friendly neighbours he builds the rude
log-hut. The felling of the trees needed to construct it makes an opening for small culture.
In a very few years he raises more food than his family needs. If the season and the roads
favour, he sends his superfluous barrels of corn and fruit eastward, and recovers an equivalent.
But what happens if wide distance part him from civilized towns, if the roads are swampy and
not made by art, and the conveyance of food be too onerous to remunerate him? All his neighbours
being in like case, there is a local Overproduction of food; yet not one of the little community
is thereby made a pauper. No one is able to expel them from their rude homes, or forbid their
cultivation. They are not made outcasts or idlers. Simply they are kept poorer, than with access
to a market they would have been; but they lessen their production of food, and either with
the females of the family work at clothing, or execute carpentering. In many ways they can
use their time to produce articles which they could have bought in a better finished state
had the market of the East been open to them. The present writer was informed by an Englishman
who in the American Civil War had penetrated very far West, that he had seen with his own eyes
a colonist burning wheat as fuel, because he had it in so great excess. Probably he had plenty
of green maize for his horses and pigs.

Whenever a man retains a house of his own, and has neither rent to pay nor any excessive taxation,
if only he have a moderate plot of land for workshop and garden, he is not made destitute,
though he do not directly raise food for his household, but works at some domestic manufacture.
Our "Spitalfields" poor who fought a long battle with the hand-loom against the loom driven
by steam power, might not have been at length utterly ruined if they had had freehold houses
and some small garden in a healthy country. If the system of huge factories had had to compete
with domestic manufacture conducted by private families living in small freeholds, it is possible
that the battle might simply have driven the independent workers either to buy small steam
engines for their aid, or what now is more obvious, to hire power from some company, as from
a Gas Company or Water Company, which had it in superfluity. Such, in the opinion of some far-
sighted men, may very possibly be even now the solution of our difficulty.

At present the Trade Unions gravely mistake the end for which they ought to strive. They mischievously
unite two objects. First, they are Benefit Societies. The funds of a Benefit Society ought
to be forbidden by law to be spent in warring against capitalists; this enables the directors,
or a majority of them, to confiscate the whole contributions of any member who disapproves
of the war.

Next, the main effort to raise the status of the workmen is ill-directed towards raising or
sustaining the rate of wages, else towards dictating concerning the management. This effort
is ill-directed, first, because it is liable to aim at an impossibility--i.e. to extort from
a master a wage so high that he prefers not to light his engine fires; next, because to raise
the rate of wages does not secure continuous work, and idle days neither tend to sobriety nor
give pay. Strikes which inflict vast loss upon the workers cause loss to the masters also,
and make them less able to pay high wages. But beyond all these, if the Unions were wise, they
would struggle against the system of wage-earning, wherever it is new and needless; that is,
as far as possible, strive to recover the system of domestic manufacture. For certain new and
peculiar industries undoubtedly combine, and large capital is essential; even in them the effort
ought to be towards uniting, as far as possible, the interests of each workman, and of the
company, the opposite of which is in general the Union policy. But for every old trade independent
work is physically possible, under the condition that the workman have a fixed homestead. To
effect this ought to be the main effort of the Unions.

In the thirty-two years between the battle of Waterloo and the Irish famine, the farmers and
manufacturers were like two buckets of a well; when one was up, the other was down. But now,
both at once are down. The causes are clearly separate.

Our manufacturers when allowed to accept payments from abroad In wheat and sugar and foods
and all raw produce, Immensely increased their foreign sales; and during the Cotton Famine,
capital was largely invested in building new cotton mills, as if we were to supply all the world.

But the European Continent more and more chooses to compete with us, and from more causes than
one deprive our merchants of their customers. Between us and our rivals more of the same sort
is produced than the existing markets can take: this is again Overproduction. Hence stagnation
in our manufacturing districts. Meanwhile, in near thirty years of manufacturing prosperity
after 1847, the increased riches of these towns enriched the farmers and enabled the landlords
to raise rents in England, and in consequence, by dint of landlord power, rent rose in the
whole United Kingdom. At the same time, Englishmen found too little encouragement to invest
their savings on English soil, and preferred to invest many millions on foreign railways and
on foreign loans; and the payment of their dividends is made largely by imported foreign food.
Their investments at first were an advantage to our manufacturers, while they sent out railway
plant and carriages and locomotives. Now foreigners compete with us even as to these, and the
imported food competes with the farmers. Thus a double failure convulses us.

How much better, if instead of quarrelling for distant markets (and it is said conquering Burmah
in the hope of advantage to our merchants) we had a native population of small cultivators,
prosperous enough to be valuable as well as steady customers to our manufacturing towns, and
gradually (in the course of several generations) another population of country folk, substituting
domestic manufactures for those of factories with wage earners!

CHAPTER XXII

THE RIGHT AND DUTY OF EVERY STATE TO ENFORCE SOBRIETY ON ITS CITIZENS BY F. W. NEWMAN, M.R.A.S.
PUBLISHED IN 1882 IN PAMPHLET FORM

No human community can be so small as not to involve duties from each member to the rest; duties
to which a sound human mind is requisite. Neither an idiot nor a madman can be a normal citizen.
The former ranks as in permanent childhood; the latter, being generally dangerous, must be
classed with criminals. A dehumanized brain impairs a citizen's rights because it unmans him,--disabling
him from duty, even making him dangerous. In India, such a one now and then runs amuck, stabbing
every one whom he meets: in England, he beats and tramples down those nearest to him,--those
whom he is most bound to protect. A human community cannot be constituted out of men and brutes,
nor ought civilized men to be forced to carry arms or armour for self-defence. For all these
reasons, to be drunk is in itself an offence against the community, prior to any statute forbidding
it, prior to any misdemeanour superinduced by it. In the State it is both a right and a duty
to enforce (as far as its means reach) sobriety on every citizen, rich or poor, in private
or in public; and with a view to this, to use such methods as will best prevent, discourage,
or deter from intoxication.

When a national religion totally forbids the use of intoxicating drugs, vigilance in the State
is less needful: public opinion, or even public show of disgust and violence, effectively stifles
the evil. But if the national religion does not forbid the use, but solely enjoins moderation
(a word which everyone interprets for himself), a far heavier task falls on the State, whose
right and duty nevertheless in this matter several causes have concurred to obscure, not least
in England and Scotland. Out of the teachings of Rome, our forefathers very ill learned the
rights of the State or the distinction of Morals from Religion. Although even men not highly
educated must have known that Moral truth is far older than any special system of Religious
beliefs, yet in the popular idea morals have no other basis than religion. Hence, the demand
for freedom of conscience against any oppressive State policy (besides the vices of Courts
and Courtiers) led to a vehement jealousy of State power even in moral concerns. Many generous
minds feared, that to concede to the State a right of enforcing morality, covertly allowed
religious persecution. Who first uttered the formula--"The only duty of the State is, to protect
persons and property"--is unknown to the present writer; but certainly fifty, forty, even thirty
years ago, this principle was widely accepted by radical politicians and active-minded dissenters.
The late Dr. Arnold of Rugby regarded this denial of the State's moral character as a widespread,
untractable and mischievous delusion.

After long torpor the prohibition of Lotteries showed that Parliament was waking to its moral
duties. Little by little, the mass of the middle- classes and the gentry imbibed nobler views
of human life, and have discovered, that of all the powers which make a nation immoral the
State is the most influential. One day of licensed debauch undoes the work of the Clergy on
fifty-two Sundays. No wonder that in the past the State collectively has been our worst corrupter:
but to open this whole question space does not here allow. A long struggle has gone on, to
implore public men not to connive at drunkenness--a national pest which for more than a century
was greeted with merriment though politically avowed to be criminal. None dare now to laugh
at it, except the depraved men who laugh at bribery, and use drunkenness as a trump-card at
elections, and, if in office, rejoice on the vast revenue sucked by the Exchequer out of the
vice and misery of the people. Earnest religionists of every creed have happily rallied to
a common conviction, that the State has grievously failed of its duty and must now turn over
a new leaf. Our worst opponents are men who cannot be reckoned in any religious body, men who
find nothing so sacred as Liberty to buy and sell and indulge appetite; generally eccentric
"Liberals," who are in many respects too good not to esteem, and too intellectual to despise.

One of these some years ago opened attack on me in a private letter, which summed up the arguments
decisive with this class of "advanced Liberals"; in whose hatred of Over Legislation I heartily
share. He taunted me for thinking that the State ought to concern itself about the drinks of
citizens more than about their dress; saying that I could not hold the State to have a control
of public morals without, in logical consistency, admitting the right of Parliament to forbid
dancing and card-playing; or to command my attendance at any Church worship, or to fine and
imprison me for heresy. The double confusion here involved is wonderful from an educated man,
and lowers his reputation for good sense. Religion is a topic on which eminent persons and
foremost nations widely differ: concerning Moral Duty there is more agreement in mankind than
perhaps on anything that is beyond the five senses. To argue that in claiming of the State
an enforcement of duties cardinal to citizenship, we admit its right to dictate in religion,
is a pestilent anachronism; it confounds Morals with Religion just as did the ancient world,
Pagan and Hebrew. Again, the test of soundness in Morals is found in the agreement of the human
race. There is no nation, no elementary tribe of men, so ignorant or so besotted, as not to
condemn drunkenness as immoral and utterly evil. In justifying penalties against a vice condemned
by all mankind, we justify (forsooth!) the punishing of amusements thought harmless by a great
majority everywhere. Such an assertion is not the less silly, even in the mouth of a disciple
of John Stuart Mill. Of course we all know that Law cannot be made against every misuse of
time, or of energy, or of money. There is certainly no danger whatever that a modern Parliament,
elected from very different circles and representing widely different elements, will ever adopt
as its measure of sound morals the special opinions of any historical sect, however virtuous
and wise.

Neither of an individual nor of a community does the highest interest consist in Liberty, but
in soundness of morals; without which Liberty only means licence to be vicious; licence to
ruin oneself, and diffuse misery to others. To a man not proof against the omnipresent drinkshop,
high wages are a curse; days called holy and short hours of work do but more quickly engulf
him in ruin. But he pulls others too down in his fall. That nearly every Vice tends to waste,
and preeminently intoxication by liquors or drugs, certain Economists are strangely slow to
learn. Moreover, nearly every widespread vice makes wealth and life less enjoyable to the whole
community. Confining remark to the vice of drunkards, it suffices to point in brief to the
enormous extension which it gives to Violent Crime, to Orphanhood, to Pauperism, to Prostitution,
to disease in Children, and to Insanity. Hence comes an enormous expense for Police and Criminal
Courts, for Jails and Jail-officers, for Magistrates and Judges, for Insane Asylums, and Poor
Rates. Hence also endless suffering to the victims of crime and to the families of criminals,
and a grave lessening of happiness to innocent persons by the ribaldry of drunkards planted
at their side, with fear lest their children be corrupted; fear also of personal outrage. Our
daily comfort largely depends on homely virtue in our neighbours. In every great organization
of industry the drunkenness of workmen is a first-rate mischief to others, crippling enterprise
by increased expense and risk. From sailors fond of grog and tobacco, proceed fire in ships
out at sea; and on foreign coasts, broils that disgrace England and Christendom, and lay a
train which sometimes explodes in war. The drunkenness of a captain has before now stranded
a noble ship. On a railroad, access of the engine driver to drink is a prime danger; and shall
we say that there is no danger in Parliament legislating when half asleep with wine, and hereby
open to the intrigue of any scheming clique, who may wish to fasten suddenly on the nation
fraudulent or wicked law? Wisely does the American Congress forbid to its members wine in its
own dining-room, because those who have to make sacred law are bound to deliberate and vote
with clear heads. Evil law is of all tyrannies the most hateful, and makes a State contemptible
to its own citizens--thus preparing Revolution.

English Statesmen have yet to learn Yankee wisdom; but no one who is, or hopes to be, in high
office dares to speak lightly of drunkenness. The celebrated Committee of 1834 advised Parliament
to reverse its course, with a view to the ultimate extinction of the trade in ardent spirits.
The advice was disgracefully spurned; yet neither the legislature nor the executive has ever
dared to deny that drunkenness is a civil offence. Our opponents plead only for the use, not
for the abuse of intoxicating drink.

No doubt, teetotallers maintain that all use of such liquors for drink is an abuse. The avowals
of Dr. William Gull, who calls our view extreme, beside those of Sir Henry Thompson and Dr.
Benjamin Richardson, seem to justify the extreme view: so do the Parisian experiments of 1860-1.
Yet it is not necessary to go so far in a political argument. I desire to obtain common ground
with such men as my friend Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P. for Leicester, and waive our difference with
him as to moderate use. Let us admit (that is, temporarily) that as Prussic Acid is fatal in
ever so small a draught, yet is safe as well as delicious in extract of almonds and in custard
flavoured by bay-leaf, so alcohol is harmless, not only in Plum Pudding and Tipsy Cake, but
also in one tumbler of Table Beer and one wineglass of pure Claret. Let us further concede
that the propensity of very many to excess makes out no case for State-interference against
the man whose use of the dangerous drink is so sparing, that no one can discover any ill effect
of it on him. Nevertheless, irrefutable reasons remain, why we should claim new legislation,
and a transference of control over the trade from the magistrates who do not suffer from it
to the local public who do.

First of all, let me speak of undeniable excess. At one time perhaps it was punished by exposure
in the pillory or stocks; but for a long time past, the penalty (when not aggravated by other
offences) has been at most a pecuniary fine: five shillings used often to be inflicted. A "gentleman"
who could pay, was let off: a more destitute man might fare worse. Inevitably, the vices of
the eighteenth century affected national opinion. The wealthier classes were so addicted to
wine, that to be "as drunk as a lord" became a current phrase. From highest to lowest the drunkard
was an object more of merriment than of pity, and scarcely at all of censure, unless he were
a soldier or sailor on duty. When a host intoxicated his guests, it was called hospitality;
to refuse the proffered glass was in many a club an offence to good company. Peers and Members
of Parliament, officers of Army and Navy, Clergymen and Fellows of Colleges--nay, some Royal
Princes--loved wine, often too much. Who then could be earnest and eager to punish poorer men
for love of strong beer? The preaching of Whitefield and Wesley began the awakening of the
nation. A very able Spaniard despondingly said of his country: "A profligate individual may
be converted, but a debased nation never"; and the recovery no doubt is arduous, when the national
taste has been depraved and vicious customs have fixed themselves in society. Even now, few
indeed are able to rejoice in the punishment of mere drunkenness; for, the only penalty imagined
is a pecuniary fine, which never can prevent repetition nor deter others; when most severe,
it does but aggravate suffering to an innocent wife and children. To be "drunk and disorderly"
is now the general imputation before a magistrate. Unless molestation of others can be charged,
the drunkard is very seldom made to feel the hand of the law. Hereby many persons seem to believe
(as apparently does one bishop) that, as a part of English liberty, every one has a right to
be drunk. While we complain that authorities are negligent and connive at vice, after accepting
and assuming the duty to prevent it; the sellers of the drink are open to a severer charge.
A man too poor to keep a servant is glad to get a wife to serve him. She is to him housemaid
and cook and nurse of his children. For all these functions she has a clear right to full wages,
besides careful nurture during motherly weakness. The husband manifestly is bound to supply
to his wife more than all she might have earned in serving others, before he spends a sixpence
on his own needless indulgences: and the publican knows it; knows, sometimes in definite certainty,
always in broad suspicion, that he is receiving money which does not in right belong to his
customer. Of course he cannot be convicted by law; but in a moral estimate he is comparable
to a lottery-keeper who accepts from shopmen money which he suspects is taken from their master's
till, or to a receiver of goods which he ought to suspect to be stolen. Such is the immoral
aspect of traders, who now claim "compensation," if the twelve- month licences granted to them
as privilege, for no merit of their own, be, in the interest of public morality, terminated
at the end of the twelve months. In the interest and at the will of landlord magistrates such
traders have borne extinction meekly, over a very wide rural area. What made them then so meek
and unpretending? Apparently because against powerful Peers and Squires impudence was not elicited
in them by the encouragement of a John Bright and a Gladstone.

How then ought the State to deal with a drunkard? Obviously by the most merciful, kind, and
effective of all punishments--by forbidding to him the fatal liquor. How much better than asylums
for drunkards! asylums which make a job for medical men, take the drunkard away from his family
and business, without anything to guarantee that on his release from prison he will have a
Will strong enough to resist the old temptation. Such asylums please medical philanthropy;
nor is any animosity displayed against them in Parliament. How can we account for the fact,
that M.P.'s who strongly oppose interference with the existing shops, and avow as much distress
and grief at drunkenness as is possible to any teetotaller, have never proposed to withhold
the baneful drink from a convicted drunkard? Did it never come into their heads? Had they never
heard of it? This would convict them of ignorance disgraceful in an M.P., still more so in
a Minister. Perhaps someone charitably suggests: "They think the prohibition never could be
enforced." To this pretence General Neal Dow makes reply: "What we Yankees have done, you English
certainly can do, WHENEVER YOU HAVE THE WILL." Nothing is easier, when anyone has been convicted
of drunkenness, than to send official notice to all licensed shops (say, within five miles)
forbidding them to supply him, under penalty of forfeiting their licences. At the same time
it should be a misdemeanour in anyone else to supply him gratuitously. (It would be pedantic
here to suggest after how long probation, and under what conditions, this stigma should be
effaceable.)

The misery which husband can inflict on wife, or wife on husband, by drunkenness, has led many
Yankees further, and--to our shame--we have as yet refused to learn from them. If a wife (with
certain legal formalities) forbid the drinkshops to supply her husband, this should be of the
same avail, as if the husband were convicted of drunkenness before a magistrate. Of course
a husband ought to have the same right against a wife, and either parent against a son or daughter
under age. Such an enactment, as it seems to me, ought to be at once passed, as a law for all
the Queen's realms, not as matter for local option. Passed over the heads of existing magistrates,
it would remain valid over whatever authority may succeed them.

This is no place to dwell on any details of horrors inflicted on the country by the present
imbecile control. Of course, it is far better than the free trade in drink, towards which Liverpool
twenty years back took a long stride, with results most wretched and justly repented of. How
deadly is now the propensity of the country, will sufficiently appear from an experience of
the late Sir Titus Salt in his little kingdom of Saltaire.

For a single year he made trial of granting to four select shops a licence to supply table
beer in bottles, delivered at the houses in quantity proportioned to the number of inmates;--a
more severe limitation than any previously heard of. Yet in the course of some months evil
grew up and multiplied. Something stronger than table beer (apparently) had been substituted.
The liquor was smuggled into the works. Disobedience and disorders arose; and at length a deputation
of his own men complained to him that their women at home were getting too much of the drink.
At the year's end he cancelled the licences, and to the general content and benefit restored
absolute prohibition. Nothing short of this extinguishes the unnatural taste. Female drunkenness
is a new vice, at least in any but the most debased of the sex: yet alas! courtly physicians
now tell us that it has invaded the boudoirs of great ladies. Such has been the mischief of
Confectioners' and Grocers' Licences.

Unsatisfactory as has been the control of the drink trade by the magistrates, their neglect
has never been resented in higher quarters, ever since, by gift of the Excise, Parliament made
the Exchequer a sleeping partner in the gains of the Drink Trade. The Queen's Exchequer has
hence a revenue of about thirty-three millions a year, of which probably two-thirds, say twenty-two
millions, is from excess: a formidable sum as hush-money. No earnest reformer expects the leopard
to change his spots. A transference of power is claimed, chiefly under the title of Local Option.
To give the power to town councils has been proved wholly insufficient in Scotland; though
the Right Hon. John Bright seems obstinately to shut eyes and ears to the fact.

Again and again in crowded meetings the Resolution has been affirmed: "The people who suffer
by the trade ought to have a veto against it."--Those who seem resolved to oppose every scheme
which seeks to break down and restrict this horrible vice, tauntingly reply, that this measure
would ensure its continuance in its worst centres. They do but show their own unwisdom herein.
The Publicans know far better, and they avow, there is nothing they so much dread as local
option. In Maine itself, a State frightfully drunken in the first half of the century, the
opponents of Neal Dow in the State Legislature scornfully allowed him to carry a Bill which
gave to each parish Permission to accept his measure as law. They expected that the drunkards
would outvote it: but to their discomfiture found that the drunkards were glad of his law,
and nailed it firm. Let all sound-hearted Englishmen trust our suffering population to use
their own remedy. Under Local Option we now embrace two systems which have been already discussed
in Parliament--that of Sir Wilfrid Lawson, and that upon the outlines of Mr. Joseph Cowen's Bill.

Personally I yield to Sir Wilfrid Lawson the highest honour. Beyond all other men he is the
hero in this long battle. If I account his Bill defective, he will not blame me: for in its
original form, which he would be glad to carry, it closely resembled the Maine Law, and superseded
the Magistrates. He has simplified it by making it only a half-measure. After Parliament has
been teazed by the drink question for more than twenty-five years (one might almost say, ever
since 1834), after candidates at every election have been made anxious by it, we must calculate
that all public men will desire to make a final settlement and get rid of the topic in Parliament.
But Sir Wilfrid's Bill, whatever its other merits (and I think them great), will not set Parliament
free. For so soon as any district adopts his permission to stop the Drink Trade, an outcry
must arise from local medical men and chemists and varnishers, demanding new shops for their
needs: and intense jealousy will follow, lest the new sellers, though called chemists or grocers
or oilmen, presently become purveyors of drink; hence a fresh struggle must continue in our
overworked Legislature concerning the new and necessary regulations. Sir Wilfrid's half-measure
supersedes neither the Magistrates nor the Parliament, though for two hundred years the Nation
has suffered through the laxity of both. Surely we chiefly need real Provincial Legislatures,
and, until we get them, Local Folk Motes and Local Elective Boards are our best substitutes.

This is the other and the complete measure: yet something remains to be said on it. The great
evil is, that by reason of competition, a trade cannot live, except by pushing its sales. The
Americans have wisely seen that the necessary sales must be effected by Agents publicly appointed,
with a fixed salary and nothing to gain by an increase of sales. Such Agents must receive public
instructions. This was, in fact, Sir Wilfrid's original scheme, only that it forbad absolutely
the selling wine or beer for drink, unless by medical order; and the last condition would involve
in Parliament endless contention. It is simpler, and I think far better, to give to an Elective
Board a general free discretion. Parliament might indeed dictate that sales should go on through
a public officer only.

I, for one, should rejoice in this. But the most eager teetotaller will not hope that in the
present generation any English Parliament will be more severe against a wine-loving gentry,
and more dictatorial to medical men, than is the law of Maine. If therefore it did command
that sales should be without gain, it certainly would not allow an entire prohibition of selling
alcohol as beverage to be imposed on the Agent for sale. It is not so in Maine; and this fact
occasioned Mr. Plimsoll's stupendous blunder, who declared in Parliament that the Maine Law
was a dead letter in Maine itself. The fact on which he built this outrageously false assertion
was that when Mr. Plimsoll asked for Whiskey, the Agent instantly sold it to him without a
moment's hesitation. But why? "Because he knew that Mr. Plimsoll was an English M.P. and a
teetotaller."