"It is all very well to preach, Frank. Bad as I am I could preach to you if there were a matter
to preach about. I don't know that there is anything much easier than preaching. But as for
practising, you can't do it if you have not got the strength. A man can't walk if you take
away his legs. If you break a bird's wing he can't fly, let the bird be ever so full of pluck.
All that there was in me she has taken out of me. I could fight him, and would willingly, if
I thought there was a chance of his meeting me."

"He would not be such a fool."

"But I could not stand up and look at her."

"She has left Bullhampton, you know."

"It does not matter, Frank. There is the place that I was getting ready for her. And if I were
there, you and your wife would always be thinking about it. And every fellow about the estate
knows the whole story. It seems to me to be almost inconceivable that a woman should have done
such a thing."

"She has not meant to act badly, Harry."

"To tell the truth, when I look back at it all, I blame myself more than her. Because ailments has been found against
        me, so I have had for his enemy.

11.
        It has put my feet in stocks, has saved all my paths.

     
        

         JOB, XXXIV While at one end of the porch and laid out the scene occurred,
the opposite occurred in another very different.

There were lively and interesting group Ilincheta ladies, along
with the two youngest Gamboa, surrounded by a semicircle of knights
that Galante or admired.

All rise. The women supported their backs on the railing, and Gentlemen pending Ilincheta
Rosa's lips, in short, graceful and graphic expression, described the little incidents of travel,
their mishandling of the way, and his own impressions . Leonardo smiled, clapped Cocco, Mateu
the doctor was like pirouettes and Meneses remained serious jealousy, because it grew with fans of
his beautiful lover.

Adela and Isabella, under the hands, listened and said nothing. Suddenly
someone pulled the skirt on the side Adela was the porch. She turned
her face vividly and saw a black good looking, dressed very different
from that used other slaves on the farm. - What do you want? - Asked
Adela pretty scared. - Your worship excuse me, girl.

It came by your doctor. (I could not see through the darkness and the skirts of the ladies
interposed.) - And who are you? - I'm the nurse, maid of his mercy. - The nurse! Adela repeated surprised.
- Yes, girl, nurse Maria Regla.

And his mercy is not the girl Adelita? - The same dresses and shoes.
- Ah! cried the slave, gently squeezing the girl's feet, because he
could not elsewhere in your body.

Heart told me. Yesterday I saw her pass by the sugar mill from the window of the infirmary. I
was in doubt what my girl if the girl Carmen and her grace.

Much has changed!

How beautiful it has been my daughter, Holy Virgin! - Heart told
me so cute, my daughter, Adela mimicked.

If I am your daughter, if I want so much, why do not you come to
see me?

I warned you to Dolores. Why do not you come out to speak?

I got very angry. - Ay! cried the black.

Do not tell me this girl is killing me ... His beneficence was not alone.
- No. Went with mom, Carmen, the wife and sister Moya Panchita.

What was so special? - Pretty girl of my eyes. - Speak, explain.
- I can not now, my child. - What!

You do not think my mom ask his blessing? - Yes, girl. I, I want the
soul, came ... From the point reached by Ms. de La Habana, I run
and throw myself at your feet ... - Why have not done so?

Who has prevented you? - Miss it. - Mom? No, it can be.

You are wrong,
you dream, Maria de Regla. - I mistake not, nor sleep, Adelita girl.

Hopefully! Miss has banned set foot in this house. - How come I
do not know about that?

Who has been with such a story? - There was no story, Adelita girl.

Dolores told me that Miss had a conversation with the master about
me ... - You see?

Dolores misunderstood.

You mom is not brave.

And if not, now I find out. - Do not do it, girl Adelita, no, for
the love of God, "replied the slave so scared, holding the girl in
a chant of her dress.

By itself, or not, you'd better not see me now Miss. Is there a doctor?
- Well, I want to see you alone.

Arrange mode.

With Dolores'll let you know.

 At breakfast, and during the walk to church,
Fenwick said not a word to his friend about Bullhampton. He talked of church services, of ritual,
of the quietness of a Sunday in London, and of the Sunday occupations of three millions of
people not a fourth of whom attend divine service. He chose any subject other than that of
which Gilmore was thinking. But as soon as they were out of church he made another attack upon
him. "After that, Harry, don't you feel like trying to do your duty?"

"I feel that I can't fly because my wing is broken," said the Squire.

They spent the whole of the afternoon and evening together, but no good was done. Gilmore,
as far as he had a plan, intended to go abroad, travel to the East, or to the West,--or to
the South, if so it came about. The Privets might be let if any would choose to take the place.
As far as he was concerned his income from his tenants would be more than he wanted. "As for
doing them any good, I never did them any good," he said, as he parted from the Vicar for the
night. "If they can't live on the land without my being at home, I am sure they won't if I
stay there."

CHAPTER LXIX.

THE TRIAL.

The miller, as he was starting from his house door, had called his daughter by her own name
for the first time since her return home,--and Carry had been comforted. But no further comfort
came to her during her journey to Salisbury from her father's speech. He hardly spoke the whole
morning, and when he did say a word as to any matter on the work they had in hand, his voice
was low and melancholy. Carry knew well, as did every one at Bullhampton, that her father was
a man not much given to conversation, and she had not expected him to talk to her; but the
silence, together with the load at her heart as to the ordeal of her examination, was very
heavy on her. If she could have asked questions, and received encouragement, she could have
borne her position comparatively with ease.

The instructions with which the miller was furnished required that Carry Brattle should present
herself at a certain office in Salisbury at a certain hour on that Wednesday. Exactly at that
hour she and her father were at the place indicated, already having visited their lodgings
at Mrs. Stiggs'. They were then told that they would not be again wanted on that day, but that
they must infallibly be in the Court the next morning at half-past nine. The attorney's clerk
whom they saw, when he learned that Sam Brattle was not yet in Salisbury, expressed an opinion
as to that young man's iniquity which led Carry to think that he was certainly in more danger
than either of the prisoners. As they left the office, she suggested to her father that a message
should be immediately sent to Bullhampton after Sam. "Let 'un be," said the miller; and it
was all that he did say. On that evening they retired to the interior of one of the bedrooms
at Trotter's Buildings, at four o'clock in the afternoon, and did not leave the house again.
Anything more dreary than those hours could not be imagined. The miller, who was accustomed
to work hard all day and then to rest, did not know what to do with his limbs. Carry, seeing
his misery, and thinking rather of that than her own, suggested to him that they should go
out and walk round the town. "Bide as thee be," said the miller; "it ain't no time now for
showing theeself." Carry took the rebuke without a word, but turned her head to hide her tears.

And the next day was worse, because it was longer. Exactly at half-past nine they were down
at the court; and there they hung about till half-past ten. Then they were told that their
affair would not be brought on till the Friday, but that at half-past nine on that day, it
would undoubtedly be commenced; and that if Sam was not there then, it would go very hard with
Sam. The miller, who was beginning to lose his respect for the young man from whom he received
these communications, muttered something about Sam being all right. "You'll find he won't be
all right if he isn't here at half-past nine to-morrow," said the young man. "There is them
as their bark is worse than their bite," said the miller. Then they went back to Trotter's
Buildings, and did not stir outside of Mrs. Stiggs' house throughout the whole day.

On the Friday, which was in truth to be the day of the trial, they were again in court at half-past
nine; and there, as we have seen, they were found, two hours later, by Mr. Fenwick, waiting
patiently while the great preliminary affair of the dealer in meat was being settled. At that
hour Sam had not made his appearance; but between twelve and one he sauntered into the comfortless
room in which Carry was still sitting with her father. The sight of him was a joy to poor Carry,
as he would speak to her, and tell her something of what was going on. "I'm about in time for
the play, father," he said, coming up to them. Ay! It must be very serious case when they call doctor.
If you have torn! Probably. Those dogs are like beasts. What horror My God! Mateu, said loudly,
looking around him.

Indeed very strange things started out for Elizabeth to the family under whose roof was hosted
and wit as weighted Tinaja. Keenly interested the fate of the nurse, a former nurse of his
young friend, now banished from the house manor, and moved, horrified at what he had heard
about the slave, bitten by ferocious dogs, all things unheard of for her, Elizabeth could
not hide Leonardo, nor his intense dislike or their deep emotions.

-
What do you have?

What has given you? he asked.

- I do not know, "she said. I feel bad.

- I thought, "continued Leonard, you had affected the tale of wounded black. Do not be boba.
What bet that has not been more the thing? Do not spend a few scratches?

If you knew the nurse would think like me. Mom can not see it as outrageous.

Nor is there they never give full credit to what they say blacks. Exaggerate everything and bulking.

-
What, Adela? Rosa asked from his seat listening to her call her doctor.

The nurse was gone in an instant, and before answering his mother Adela appeared Mayoral horse,
preceded by his two beautiful mastiff, to account for voice Campanula all that had happened.
Was this tall, lean meats, more than tough Member very dark face, black-eyed, curly hair and
beard village, whose large whiskers I covered both sides of the face until it touches the corners
of the mouth, which seemed so smaller. Despite the wide-brimmed hat as he always wore, both in
the field than at home, outdoor indoor because often made use of him as cap sleep, when I took
to talk with Don Candido who saw himself as the top on his forehead looked like a white man,
nose, cheeks and hands, but nobody would which were of a mulatto were so badly burned from the sun.
He came armed, as they say, until teeth, tape machete, dagger out of silver shining like that,
and the ponderous whip, the handle made from a piece of wild orange,
was not less terrible for being gun just blunt.

He began by saying:

- Santas afternoon has the Don Candido with the company toa.

I am coming to participasle they have brought to Peter brichi with
some bite.

It was necessary Atoja arresistió and dogs.

- Who has captured? the master asked calmly.

- The participation of Don Francisco Estévez, Maroons take nombráa
pa.

- Do you know where they have captured?

- In the reeds of La
Begoña, Close to the mountains.

- Was he alone?

What peers?

- NAA is known about them, Don Candido, neither Peter nor decislo
Quie.

I will figure pa biraslo will need to sing. Therefore I come to where the Don Candido pa tell
me what to do with Peter. It is very emperrao ...

Where did you have Don Liborio? asked the master after a long pause.

- In the infirmary.

- What, is so spoiled?

- Not so, Don Candido. I have it in the stocks of nursing pa greater
security, not I wanted the hurt ponesle crickets, and then I was willing
figure with bad intentions. His eyes are two tomatoes Mauro, and I
repaired it when asina put the black eye is to make a fechuría quieen.
I say to the man who is that black emperrao mu. Watch Mr if dog, when
I put in the stocks I said - the man does not die more than a time,
and that "he was working cansao pa his master." The lord should know
that after the asina fuck and talk black is because, as my friend
Moya, who is present, they Guinea has put my head. They have hastily
tragáo bracelet here that when go straight for their land.

- Aberrations
of ignorance! exclaimed the priest. The amount of the burly barrister's achievement was simply this,--that
for the moment a sort of sympathy was excited on behalf of the prisoners by the disapprobation
which was aroused against the wicked man who hadn't cared twopence. Sympathy, like electricity,
will run so quick that no man may stop it. If sympathy might be made to run through the jury-box
there might perchance be a man or two there weak enough to entertain it to the prejudice of
his duty on that day. The hopes of the burly barrister in this matter did not go further than that.

Then there was another man put forward who had seen neither of the prisoners, but had seen
the cart and pony at Pycroft Common, and had known that the cart and pony were for the time
in the possession of the Grinder. He was questioned by the burly barrister about himself rather
than about his evidence; and when he had been made to own that he had been five times in prison,
the burly barrister was almost justified in the look he gave to the jury, and he shook his
head as though in sorrow that his learned friend on the other side should have dared to bring
such a man as that before them as a witness. - And back to the same subject, said Don Candido annoying. Moya, fine and says what you repeated,
but nothing that convinces me, and I explained the cause, the real and true cause Carabalis
my flight. The worst thing is that I suspect you know something and do not want to say before Mr.
Priest and the Captain.

- Well, for them and for toas that Jesus Christ died, Moya said eagerly kissing the five crosses
that had formed with the ten fingers intertwined, I do not know naitica
more.

And if you leave something embuchao, plunged me here damned, and
pardon my moo Nah, you speak.

- Do not curse for so little, said
the priest.

- Register your memory you, Moya, Don Candido said, smiling
to see their plight.

- The fact is, he replied after a brief detention,
I do not know what could occur to be the cause and that could occur
to cause Juya pa that a black man.

Mr. Don Candido said that some black bracelets and not juyen, and
willing said that misuse is the cause of the Maroon.

Well. It also says that Don Candido carabalí are many proud. I say that dogs are mu toos dogs
and more blacks together. Pedro Briche is the head of his ships in the wit. Language always
speaks to them, and the Mayoral is Quemao with him. I know, but not I had never hand over, or
dende who came from Africa I think that you took Naiden blood leather. Well, sir, spends the week
before, Pedro Briche not presented in JILA, or sleep at night in the barracks. What did you
do Don Liborio? The next day go and catch it sotaventao, and gives a few lashes on top of the
shirt, put in the stocks for two days, took command of contramayoral and blew the field to plate.
Is dogged more. I told him to give him a good upside down, but feared that lifted toa Negrao.
Y we have seen the results from the study, went to the mountain with six companions because he was
not punished enough.

- Do not you say? Don Candido said smugly. And he added, before you take off Moya word: - And
what does all that Goyo, the watchman of the road from the beach?
Do you know if you have probed?

- What do you mean?

Moya answered promptly. The pa primerito that was it. Do not see the Lord Don Candido to the
door that your spark plug Mesmer found fresh tracks of blacks who came of the mountain side
there?

Toos but he swore by the saints in heaven who has not seen, heard or NAA in too felt this
time. Don Liborio was heated and wanted to snuggle up against him a few lashes pa to sing, but I
took it off the head, because I thought it was going to get brave lady Dona Rosa as he knew
that papa had castigao the Cayman.

This retail Don Candido walks without healing of those who kept him
company, perhaps to avoid being interrupted in his meditations.

Then, turning suddenly to Moya, in short, imperious tone asked about the Mayoral.

- When I was coming from the pasture, said Moya, he was with people
cutting cane in front of the new tomb.

It should not take longer because, as we must not cut the grass of Guinea pa ate the horses because
there cojollo, people released earlier. Look, here come the carts with the latest rods to
test the machine pa ... Yonder see the herdsman in mule, and further entoavía, on the other
guardarraya, now I see Don Liborio. The cane I cover their dogs and I will not say whether
pueo alone or with people. He comes to riding.

CHAPTER V

     9. Though she
had never been in a court of law before, and had had no one tell her what would happen, she
knew that the question would be asked. She was sure that she would be made to say what she
had been before all that crowd of men.

The evidence which she could give, though it was material, was very short. John Burrows and
Lawrence Acorn had come to the cottage on Pycroft Common on that Sunday morning, and there
she had seen both of them. It was daylight when they came, but still it was very early. She
had not observed the clock, but she thought that it may have been about five. The men were
in and out of the house, but they had some breakfast. She had risen from bed to help to get
them their breakfast. If anything had been buried by them in the garden, she had known nothing
of it. She had then received three sovereigns from Acorn, whom she was engaged to marry. From
that day to the present she had never seen either of the men. As soon as she heard of the suspicion
against Acorn, and that he had fled, she conceived her engagement to be at an end. All this
she testified, with infinite difficulty, in so low a voice that a man was sworn to stand by
her and repeat her answers aloud to the jury;--and then she was handed over to the burly barrister.

She had been long enough in the court to perceive, and had been clever enough to learn, that
this man would be her enemy. Though she had been unable to speak aloud in answering the counsel
for the prosecution, she had quite understood that the man was her friend,--that he was only
putting to her those questions which must be asked,--and questions which she could answer without
much difficulty. But when she was told to attend to what the other gentleman would say to her,
then, indeed, her poor heart failed her.

It came at once. "My dear, I believe you have been indiscreet?" The words, perhaps, had been
chosen with some idea of mercy, but certainly there was no mercy in the tone. The man's voice
was loud, and there was something in it almost of a jeer,--something which seemed to leave
an impression on the hearer that there had been pleasure in the asking it. She struggled to
make an answer, and the monosyllable, yes, was formed by her lips. The man who was acting as
her mouthpiece stooped down his ears to her lips, and then shook his head. Assuredly no sound
had come from them that could have reached his sense, had he been ever so close. The burly
barrister waited in patience, looking now at her, and now round at the court. "I must have
an answer. I say that I believe you have been indiscreet. You know, I dare say, what I mean.
Yes or no will do; but I must have an answer." She glanced round for an instant, trying to
catch her father's eye; but she could see nothing; everything seemed to swim before her except
the broad face of that burly barrister. 

THIERS .-- As he had not see! In the car was quiet, well sheltered at, not saying This mouth
is mine, and so happy that threw light on the eyes ...

ROSALIA .-- And you had the patience to witness such a scandal? ... With that you can not do
his wife because she is a ... and make your darling ...! I am blown ... So great shame our family,
this family honored and exemplary few, drives me crazy ... = (Looking
at you hard.) = "And do not say anything?," put up with in your beard
...? The story of the poor girl, in reference
to the trial, had been so noised about that it was known to all the listeners. That spark of
sympathy, of which we have said that its course cannot be arrested when it once finds its way
into a crowd, had been created, and there was hardly present then one, either man or woman,
who would not have prayed that Carry Brattle might be spared if it were possible. There was
a juryman there, a father with many daughters, who thought that it might not misbecome him
to put forward such a prayer himself.

"Perhaps it mayn't be necessary," said the soft-hearted juryman.

But the burly barrister was not a man who liked to be taught his duty by any one in court,--not
even by a juryman,--and his quick intellect immediately told him that he must seize the spark
of sympathy in its flight. It could not be stopped, but it might be turned to his own purpose.
It would not suffice for him now that he should simply defend the question he had asked. The
court was showing its aptitude for pathos, and he also must be pathetic on his own side. He
knew well enough that he could not arrest public opinion which was going against him, by shewing
that his question was a proper question; but he might do so by proving at once how tender was
his own heart.

"It is a pain and grief to me," said he, "to bring sorrow upon any one. But look at those prisoners
at the bar, whose lives are committed to my charge, and know that I, as their advocate, love
them while they are my clients as well as any father can love his child. I will spend myself
for them, even though it may be at the risk of the harsh judgment of those around me. It is
my duty to prove to the jury on their behalf that the life of this young woman has been such
as to invalidate her testimony against them;--and that duty I shall do, fearless of the remarks
of any one. Now I ask you again, Caroline Brattle, whether you are not one of the unfortunates?"

This attempt of the burly barrister was to a certain extent successful. The juryman who had
daughters of his own had been put down, and the barrister had given, at any rate, an answer
to the attack that had been silently made on him by the feeling of the court. I spent night imagining
or dreaming disaster trips and falls. I can not convince them that God take me that way now
so different from what went before, without having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was
born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining your chocolate -. We
deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God.

That good and bad stars is not very Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of everything, and this misfortunes.
It is a specialty of mine. If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death
of King, it will ignite a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes,
that is .... Flow rivers of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers kill brothers .... everything
has to rule whether the uncle or niece uncle niece. What dreadful nonsense! And these things
happen in meetings with people countries and nations are called!

... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe they laugh at the wild! I, ignorant woman,
I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch
of philosophy as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole of his coat. That canvas
was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

-
I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that makes
me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised
in the civil war?

Is it not likely to be firing shots in the streets? Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

- I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else. The heart usually has some guesses as
weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one thing, and
God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong.

And now God commands us not just the scourge of civil war We also
sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear about this
Primitivo?

It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes, is a Amazing invisible
stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

-
Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic
cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his
body felt cold complacent.

Lamb felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain.

People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection
does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules.

Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised to return soon. When boarding the car,
said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry
.... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now for those lanes of Satan here!

And
he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no
rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected
that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón being single. The cute
couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father
Carantoña, of the Dominican order, big buddy of the bridegroom. "Why shouldn't
I walk it? Ain't I got to 'arn my bread every day?"

It was ten o'clock when they reached the mill, and Mrs. Brattle, not expecting them at that
hour, was in bed. But Fanny was up, and did what she could to comfort them. But no one could
ever comfort old Brattle. He was not susceptible to soft influences. It may almost be said
that he condemned himself because he gave way to the daily luxury of a pipe. He believed in
plenty of food, because food for the workman is as coals to the steam-engine, as oats to the
horse,--the raw material out of which the motive power of labour must be made. Beyond eating
and working a man had little to do, but just to wait till he died. That was his theory of life
in these his latter days; and yet he was a man with keen feelings and a loving heart.

But Carry was comforted when her sister's arms were around her. "They asked me if I was bad,"
she said, "and I thought I should a' died, and I never answered them a word,--and at last they
let me go." When Fanny inquired whether their father had been kind to her, she declared that
he had been "main kind." "But, oh, Fanny! if he'd only say a word, it would warm one's heart;
wouldn't it?"

On the following evening news reached Bullhampton that the Grinder had been convicted and sentenced
to death, but that Lawrence Acorn had been acquitted. The judge, in his summing up, had shown
that certain evidence which applied to the Grinder had not applied to his comrade in the dock,
and the jury had been willing to take any excuse for saving one man from the halter. What best
owner could wish that this man can not be beaten, for whom I felt gratitude well a love so
great, so great I do not know how to express it?

D. Benigno did the impossible to prevent the tears out of their eyes and he looked the bed, while
meeting with his whole soul to which Sola said, and stretched muscles of his face, and finally to
tears wanting to put docks make sympathetic laughter.

Finally, emotion overcame her dignity and her hand to her eyes.

- I acknowledge with pleasure, with great gusto - said talking to embarrassment, but no tears
- that you accept my offerings has made loyalty ... yes, my lady, I admit ... I am grateful
... I'm not worth anything ... acknowledge that you, answer yes to my prayers, threw the last
handful of earth on a sad past, offered me their love and I devoted his whole person, their
future ... I would appreciate ... but, but ... then changed things
are suddenly introduced to you one on whom had fallen so dearly earth
....

- No - Sola said strongly, rising -.

Nothing can change my resolution. When appeared, I no longer belonged to me. I feel so bound
by my word before and after that visit, and should not, nor do I want ... and I repeat, go
back.

- It is possible that the presence of this man what would you indifferent.

- Indifferent not, but who has fought so hard and so has expired, could not in any way compromise
victory. I'm the same now as when I first went to Cigarrales to pass best days of my life ....
No doubt about it you will be my offense.

I whole body and soul of this orphan looked lonely and abandoned and had the incomparable
generosity of wanting to make his wife.

Sola firm attitude, energy and loyalty in his face was painted like adequate expression of
his own beautiful soul had overcome the good Cordero of admiration, gratitude, enthusiasm
and love.

- One word - he said - one question I want to do.

What you say is for me as a statement down from heaven and will believe
as you believe in God .... A little word nothing more.

We are two, two men, one young and full of life and health, excellent
presence, Clear, rich, honest, with many items that will enhance the
imagination of both learned to love a child, the other old, sick,
heavy ....

- Heavy no - cried single protest in the heat.

- Well,
let's take it from heavy ... sick, ugly ....

- In men there is no
ugliness.

- Sick - Lamb continued counting on his fingers - homely,
short-sighted, honest yes, like the first, a good heart .... Finally,
I object.

They both want to marry such a Sola, and this seems to comedy.

A word to the lady is going to decide the issue, Which of the two I want a husband?


"What!" exclaimed the Vicar;--"not at once?"

"So they was saying, sir, when I come away. And the men was at it,--that is, standing all about.
And there is to be no more preaching, sir. And missus was out in the front looking at 'em as
I drove out of the yard."

Fenwick asked twenty questions, but could obtain no other information than was given in the
first announcement of these astounding news. And as he entered the vicarage he was still asking
questions, and the man was still endeavouring to express his own conviction that that horrible,
damnable, and most heart-breaking red brick building would be demolished, and carted clean
away before the end of the week. For the servants and dependents of the vicarage were staunch
to the interests of the church establishment, with a degree of fervour of which the Vicar himself
knew nothing. They hated Puddleham and dissent. This groom would have liked nothing better
than a commission to punch the head of Mr. Puddleham's eldest son, a young man who had been
employed in a banker's office at Warminster, but had lately come home because he had been found
to have a taste for late hours and public-house parlours; and had made himself busy on the
question of the chapel. The maid servants at the vicarage looked down as from a mighty great
height on the young women of Bullhampton who attended the chapel, and the vicarage gardener,
since he had found out that the chapel stood on glebe land, and ought therefore, to be placed
under his hands, had hardly been able to keep himself off the ground. His proposed cure for
the evil that had been done,--as an immediate remedy before erection and demolition could be
carried out, was to form the vicarage manure pit close against the chapel door,--"and then
let anybody touch our property who dares!" He had, however, been too cautious to carry out
any such strategy as this, without direct authority from the Commander-in-Chief. "Master thinks
a deal too much on 'em," he had said to the groom, almost in disgust at the Vicar's pusillanimity. The butcher shop produced a lot, but the product of Mortanchez and Candelario
was not rain falling from heaven, so soon the house began to decline, having ups and downs, falling
into the abyss of ruin within a year. The Vicar was desirous of assuring the minister that no steps need
be taken, at any rate, for the present, towards removing the chapel from its present situation.
But before he could speak to Mr. Puddleham he perceived the builder from Salisbury, who appeared
to be very busy,--Grimes, the Bullhampton tradesman, so lately discomfited, but now triumphant,--Bolt,
the elder, close at Mr. Puddleham's elbow,--his own churchwarden, with one or two other farmers,--and
lastly, Lord St. George himself, walking in company with Mr. Packer, the agent. Many others
from the village were there, so that there was quite a public meeting on the bit of ground
which had been appropriated to Mr. Puddleham's preachings. Fenwick, as soon as he saw Lord
St. George, accosted him before he spoke to the others. Give to God what is his,
ad to the phramacy what is their's and do not mix cabbage with floor coverings or the sacred with
vomiting.

A discreet clergyman suprised everyone with his morning greeting at the door. Watching the entertainment
of two priests and two women came to an end when a priest sat down, covered in sweat and struck
a blow. He restured and thre flies then declared that having been killed in the apothecary of Rhodes
and the street of Sailes. He spoke of his uncle's house in Caro, and said last night there
was no excitement and the house was dead this morning.

Father Fracian Amostazad urged him not to overtire himself, saying
it would be bad for the new inhabitants of Nazaria.

There have been a few deaths there he said, although Tables denied
this witha laugh.

He said he drank with Tinajas Gregorio last night, and now he is cold and dead. Maricadalso
said with some dismay that he was as dead as their grandfather.

The friars also died. Nazaria closed his eyes at what he was hearing. Maricadalso said that
the athlete returned and told him that his daughter Ildefonsa has
fallen on the street of Dove, and was dying.

Maricaldo roared as he spoke, then jumped up to leave.


"Well, yes,--placed in the middle of the Vicar's ground! What would you say if Mr. Fenwick
demanded leave to use your parlour for his vestry room, and to lock up his surplice in your
cupboard?"

"I'm sure he'd try it on before he'd had it a day," said the Vicar, "and very well he'd look
in it," whereupon the minister again raised his hat, and again frowned.

"The long and the short of it is," continued the lord, "that we've, among us, made a most absurd
mistake, and the sooner we put it right the better. My father, feeling that our mistake has
led to all the others, and that we have caused all this confusion, thinks it to be his duty
to pull the chapel down and build it up on the site before proposed near the cross roads. We'll
begin at once, and hope to get it done by Christmas. In the mean time, Mr. Puddleham has consented
to go back to the old chapel."

"Why not let him stay here till the other is finished?" asked the Vicar.

