"Yeah, 'spicion," growled the Persimmon; "'spicion an' de husban' leadin' a irreg'lar life."

Jim Pink looked at his companion, curiously.

"The husban'--leadin' a irreg'lar life?"

"Yeah,"--the Persimmon nodded grimly,--"the husban' comin' home at onexpected hours. You know
whut I means, Jim Pink."

Jim Pink let his pebble fall and lowered the fore legs of his chair softly to the ground.

"Now, look heah, Persimmon, you don' want to be draggin' no foreign disco'se into yo' talk
heah befo' Mr. Siner an' Parson Ranson."

The Persimmon rose deliberately.

"All I want to say is, I drapped off'n de matrimonial tree three times a'ready, Jim Pink, an'
I think I feels somebody shakin' de limb ag'in."

The old negro preacher rose, too, a little behind Jim Pink.

"Now, boys! boys!" he placated. "You jes think dat, Persimmon."

"Yeah," admitted Persimmon, "I jes think it; but ef I b'lieve ever'thing is so whut I think
is so, I'd part Jim Pink's wool wid a brickbat."

Parson Ranson tried to make peace, but the Persimmon spread his hands in a gesture that included
the three men. "Now, I ain't sayin' nothin'," he stated solemnly, "an' I ain't makin' no threats;
but ef anything happens, you-all kain't say that nobody didn' tell nobody about nothin'."

With this the Persimmon walked to the gate, let himself out, still looking back at Jim Pink,
and then started down the dusty street.

Mr. Staggs seemed uncomfortable under the Persimmon's protruding yellow stare, but finally,
when the roustabout was gone, he shrugged, regained his aplomb, and remarked that some niggers
spent their time in studyin' 'bout things they hadn't no info'mation on whatever. Then he strolled
off up the crescent in the other direction.

All this would have made fair minstrel patter if Peter Siner had shared the white conviction
that every emotion expressed in a negro's patois is humorous. Unfortunately, Peter was too
close to the negroes to hold such a tenet. He knew this quarrel was none the less rancorous
for having been couched in the queer circumlocution of black folk. And behind it all shone
the background of racial promiscuity out of which it sprang. It was like looking at an open
sore that touched all of Niggertown, men and boys, young girls and women. It caused tragedies,
murders, fights, and desertions in the black village as regularly as the rotation of the calendar;
yet there was no public sentiment against it. Peter wondered how this attitude of his whole
people could possibly be.

With the query the memory of Ida May came back to him, with its sense of dim pathos. It seemed
to Peter now as if their young and uninstructed hands had destroyed a safety-vault to filch
a penny.

The reflex of a thought of Ida May always brought Peter to Cissie; it always stirred up in
him a desire to make this young girl's path gentle and smooth. There was a fineness, a delicacy
about Cissie, that, it seemed to Peter, Ida May had never possessed. Then, too, Cissie was
moved by a passion for self-betterment. She deserved a cleaner field than the Niggertown of
Hooker's Bend.

Peter took Parson Ranson's arm, and the two moved to the gate by common consent. It was no
longer pleasant to sit here. The quarrel they had heard somehow had flavored their surroundings.

Peter turned his steps mechanically northward up the crescent toward the Dildine cabin. Nothing
now restrained him from calling on Cissie; he would keep no dinner waiting; he would not be
warned and berated on his return home. The nagging, jealous love of his mother had ended.

As the two men walked along, it was borne in upon Peter that his mother's death definitely
ended one period of his life. There was no reason why he should continue his present unsettled
existence. It seemed best to marry Cissie at once and go North. Further time in this place
would not be good for the girl. Even if he could not lift all Niggertown, he could at least
help Cissie. He had had no idea, when he first planned his work, what a tremendous task he
was essaying. The white village had looked upon the negroes so long as non-moral and non- human
that the negroes, with the flexibility of their race, had assimilated that point of view. The
whites tried to regulate the negroes by endless laws. The negroes had come to accept this,
and it seemed that they verily believed that anything not discovered by the constable was permissible.
Mr. Dawson Bobbs was Niggertown's conscience. It was best for Peter to take from this atmosphere
what was dearest to him, and go at once.

The brown man's thoughts came trailing back to the old negro parson hobbling at his side. He
looked at the old man, hesitated a moment, then told him what was in his mind.

Parson Ranson's face wrinkled into a grin.

"You's gwine to git ma'ied?"

"And I thought I'd have you perform the ceremony."

This suggestion threw the old negro into excitement.

"Me, Mr. Peter?"

"Yes. Why not?"

"Why, Mr. Peter, I kain't jine you an' Miss Cissie Dildine."

Peter looked at him, astonished.

"Why can't you?"

"Whyn't you git a white preacher?"

"Well," deliberated Peter, gravely, "it's a matter of principle with me, Parson Ranson. I think
we colored people ought to be more self-reliant, more self-serving. We ought to lead our own
lives instead of being mere echoes of white thought." He made a swift gesture, moved by this
passion of his life. "I don't mean racial equality. To my mind racial equality is an empty
term. One might as well ask whether pink and violet are equal. But what I do insist on is autonomous
development."

The old preacher nodded, staring into the dust. "Sho! 'tonomous 'velopment."

Peter saw that his language, if not his thought, was far beyond his old companion's grasp,
and he lacked the patience to simplify himself.

"Why don't you want to marry us, Parson?"

Parson Ranson lifted his brows and filled his forehead with wrinkles.

"Well, I dunno. You an' Miss Cissie acts too much lak white folks fuh a nigger lak me to jine
you, Mr. Peter."

Peter made a sincere effort to be irritated, but he was not.

"That's no way to feel. It's exactly what I was talking about,--racial self-reliance. You've
married hundreds of colored couples."

"Ya-as, suh,"--the old fellow scratched his black jaw.--"I kin yoke up a pair uv ordina'y niggers
all right. Sometimes dey sticks, sometimes dey don't." The old man shook his white, kinky head.
"I'll bust in an' try to hitch up you-all. I--I dunno whedder de cer'mony will hol' away up
North or not."

"It'll be all right anywhere, Parson," said Peter, seriously. "Your name on the marriage-certificate
will--can you write?"

"N-no, suh."

After a brief hesitation Peter repeated determinedly:

"It'll be all right. And, by the way, of course, this will be a very quiet wedding."

"Yas-suh." The old man bobbed importantly.

"I wouldn't mention it to any one."

"No, suh; no, suh. I don' blame you a-tall, Mr. Peter, wid dat Tump Pack gallivantin' roun'
wid a forty-fo'. Hit would keep 'mos' anybody's weddin' ve'y quiet onless he wuz lookin' fuh
a short cut to heab'n."

As the two negroes passed the Berry cabin, Nan Berry thrust out her spiked head and called
to Peter Captain Renfrew wanted to see him.

Peter paused, with quickened interest in this strange old man who had come to his mother's
death-bed with a doctor. Peter asked Nan what the Captain wanted.

Nan did not know. Wince Washington had told Nan that the Captain wanted to see Peter. Bluegum
Frakes had told Wince; Jerry Dillihay had told Bluegum; but any further meanderings of the
message, when it started, or what its details might be, Nan could not state.

It was a typical message from a resident of the white town to a denizen of Niggertown. Such
messages are delivered to any black man for any other black man, not only in the village, but
anywhere in the outlying country. It may be passed on by a dozen or a score of mouths before
it reaches its objective. It may be a day or a week in transit, but eventually it will be delivered
verbatim. This queer system of communication is a relic of slavery, when the master would send
out word for some special negro out of two or three hundred slaves to report at the big house.

However, as Peter approached the Dildine cabin, thoughts of his approaching marriage drove
from his mind even old Captain Renfrew's message. His heart beat fast from having made his
first formal step toward wedlock. The thought of having Cissie all to himself, swept his nerves
in a gust.

He opened the gate, and ran up between the dusty lines of dwarf box, eager to tell her what
he had done. He thumped on the cracked, unpainted door, and impatiently waited the skirmish
of observation along the edge of the window-blinds. This was unduly drawn out. Presently he
heard women's voices whispering to each other inside. They seemed urgent, almost angry voices.
Now and then he caught a sentence:

"What difference will it make?" "I couldn't." "Why couldn't you?" "Because--" "That's because
you've been to Nashville." "Oh, well--" A chair was moved over a bare floor. A little later
footsteps came to the entrance, the door opened, and Cissie's withered yellow mother stood
before him.

Vannie offered her hand and inquired after Peter's health with a stopped voice that instantly
recalled his mother's death. After the necessary moment of talk, the mulatto inquired for Cissie.

The yellow woman seemed slightly ill at ease.

"Cissie ain't so well, Peter."

"She's not ill?"

"N-no; but the excitement an' ever'thing--" answered Vannie, vaguely.

In the flush of his plans, Peter was keenly disappointed.

"It's very important, Mrs. Dildine."

Vannie's dried yellow face framed the ghost of a smile.

"Ever'thing a young man's got to say to a gal is ve'y important, Peter."

It seemed to Peter a poor time for a jest; his face warmed faintly.

"It--it's about some of the details of our--our wedding."

"If you'll excuse her to-day, Peter, an' come after supper--"

Peter hesitated, and was about to go away when Cissie's voice came from an inner room, telling
her mother to admit him.

The yellow woman glanced at the door on the left side of the hall, crossed over and opened
it, stood to one side while Peter entered, and closed it after him, leaving the two alone.

The room into which Peter stepped was dark, after the fashion of negro houses. Only after a
moment's survey did he see Cissie sitting near a big fireplace made of rough stone. The girl
started to rise as Peter advanced toward her, but he solicitously forbade it and hurried over
to her. When he leaned over her and put his arms about her, his ardor was slightly dampened
when she gave him her cheek instead of her lips to kiss.

"Surely, you're not too ill to be kissed?" he rallied faintly.

"You kissed me. I thought we had agreed, Peter, you were not to come in the daytime any more."

"Oh, is that it?" Peter patted her shoulder, cheerfully. "Don't worry; I have just removed
any reason why I shouldn't come any time I want to."

Cissie looked at him, her dark eyes large in the gloom.

"What have you done?"

"Got a preacher to marry us; on my way now for a license. Dropped in to ask if you 'll be ready
by tomorrow or next day."

The girl gasped.

"But, Peter--"

Peter drew a chair beside her in a serious argumentative mood.

"Yes I think we ought to get married at once. No reason why we shouldn't get it over with--Why,
what's the matter?"

"So soon after your mother's death, Peter?"

"It's to get away from Hooker's Bend, Cissie--to get you away. I don't like for you to stay
here. It's all so--" he broke off, not caring to open the disagreeable subject.

The girl sat staring down at some fagots smoldering on the hearth. At that moment they broke
into flame and illuminated her sad face.

"You'll go, won't you?" asked Peter at last, with a faint uncertainty.

The girl looked up.

"Oh--I--I'd be glad to, Peter,"--she gave a little shiver. "Ugh! this Niggertown is a--a terrible
place!"

Peter leaned over, took one of her hands, and patted it.

"Then we'll go," he said soothingly. "It's decided--tomorrow. And we'll have a perfectly lovely
wedding trip," he planned cheerfully, to draw her mind from her mood. "On the car going North
I'll get a whole drawing-room. I've always wanted a drawing-room, and you'll be my excuse.
We'll sit and watch the fields and woods and cities slip past us, and know, when we get off,
we can walk on the streets as freely as anybody. We'll be a genuine man and wife."

His recital somehow stirred him. He took her in his arms, pressed her cheek to his, and after
a moment kissed her lips with the trembling ardor of a bridegroom.

Cissie remained passive a moment, then put up he hands, turned his face away, and slowly released
herself.

Peter was taken aback.

"What is the matter, Cissie?"

"I can't go, Peter."

Peter looked at her with a feeling of strangeness.

"Can't go?"

The girl shook her head.

"You mean--you want us to live here?"

Cissie sat exceedingly still and barely shook her head.

The mulatto had a sensation as if the portals which disclosed a new and delicious life were
slowly closing against him. He stared into her oval face.

"You don't mean, Cissie--you don't mean you don't want to marry me?"

The fagots on the hearth burned now with a cheerful flame. Cissie stared at it, breathing rapidly
from the top of her lungs. She seemed about to faint. As Peter watched her the jealousy of
the male crept over him.

"Look here, Cissie," he said in a queer voice, "you--you don't mean, after all, that Tump Pack
is--"

"Oh no! No!" Her face showed her repulsion. Then she drew a long breath and apparently made
up her mind to some sort of ordeal.

"Peter," she asked in a low tone, "did you ever think what we colored people are trying to
reach?" She stared into his uncomprehending eyes. "I mean what is our aim, our goal, whom are
we trying to be like?"

"We aren't trying to be like any one." Peter was entirely at a loss.

"Oh, yes, we are," Cissie hurried on. "Why do colored girls straighten their hair, bleach their
skins, pinch their feet? Aren't they trying to look like white girls?"

Peter agreed, wondering at her excitement.

"And you went North to college, Peter, so you could think and act like a white man--"

Peter resisted this at once; he was copying nobody. The whole object of college was to develop
one's personality, to bring out--

The girl stopped his objections almost piteously.

"Oh, don't argue! You know arguing throws me off. I--now I've forgotten how I meant to say
it!" Tears of frustration welled up in her eyes.

Her mood was alarming, almost hysterical. Peter began comforting her.

"There, there, dear, dear Cissie, what is the matter? Don't say it at all." Then, inconsistently,
he added: "You said I copied white men. Well, what of it?"

Cissie breathed her relief at having been given the thread of her discourse. She sat silent
for a moment with the air of one screwing up her courage.

"It's this," she said in an uncertain voice: "sometimes we--we--girls-- here in Niggertown
copy the wrong thing first."

Peter looked blankly at her.

"The wrong thing first, Cissie?"

"Oh, yes; we--we begin on clothes and--and hair and--and that isn't the real matter."

"Why, no-o-o, that isn't the real matter," said Peter puzzled.

Cissie looked at his face and became hopeless.

"Oh, don't you understand! Lots of us--lots of us make that mistake! I--I did; so--so, Peter,
I can't go with you!" She flung out the last phrase, and suddenly collapsed on the arm of her
chair, sobbing.

Peter was amazed. He got up, sat on the arm of his own chair next to hers and put his arms
about her, bending over her, mothering her. Her distress was so great that he said as earnestly
as his ignorance permitted:

"Yes, Cissie, I understand now." But his tone belied his words, and the girl shook her head.
"Yes, I do, Cissie," he repeated emptily. But she only shook her head as she leaned over him,
and her tears slowly formed and trickled down on his hand. Then all at once old Caroline's
accusation against Cissie flashed on Peter's mind. She had stolen that dinner in the turkey
roaster, after all. It so startled him that he sat up straight. Cissie also sat up. She stopped
crying, and sat looking into the fire.

"You mean--morals?" said Peter in a low tone.

Cissie barely nodded, her wet eyes fixed on the fire.

"I see. I was stupid."

The girl sat a moment, drawing deep breaths. At last she rose slowly.

"Well--I'm glad it's over. I'm glad you know." She stood looking at him almost composedly except
for her breathing and her tear-stained face. "You see, Peter, if you had been like Tump Pack
or Wince or any of the boys around here, it--it wouldn't have made much difference; but--but
you went off and--and learned to think and feel like a white man. You-- you changed your code,
Peter." She gave a little shaken sound, something between a sob and a laugh. "I--I don't think
th-that's very fair, Peter, to--to go away an'--an' change an' come back an' judge us with
yo' n-new code." Cissie's precise English broke down.

Just then Peter's logic caught at a point.

"If you didn't know anything about my code, how do you know what I feel now?" he asked.

She looked at him with a queer expression.

"I found out when you kissed me under the arbor. It was too late then."

She stood erect, with dismissal very clearly written in her attitude. Peter walked out of the room.

                              CHAPTER VIII

With a certain feeling of clumsiness Peter groped in the dark hall for his hat, then, as quietly
as he could, let himself out at the door. Outside he was surprised to find that daylight still
lingered in the sky. He thought night had fallen. The sun lay behind the Big Hill, but its
red rays pouring down through the boles of the cedars tinted long delicate avenues in the dusty
atmosphere above his head. A sharp chill in the air presaged frost for the night. Somewhere
in the crescent a boy yodeled for his dog at about half-minute intervals, with the persistence
of children.

Peter walked a little distance, but finally came to a stand in the dust, looking at the negro
cabins, not knowing where to go or what to do. Cissie's confession had destroyed all his plans.
It had left him as adynamic as had his mother's death. It seemed to Peter that there was a
certain similarity between the two events; both were sudden and desolating. And just as his
mother had vanished utterly from his reach, so now it seemed Cissie was no more. Cissie the
clear-eyed, Cissie the ambitious, Cissie the refined, had vanished away, and in her place stood
a thief.

The thing was grotesque. Peter began a sudden shuddering in the cold. Then he began moving
toward the empty cabin where he slept and kept his things. He moved along, talking to himself
in the dusty emptiness of the crescent. He decided that he would go home, pack his clothes,
and vanish. A St. Louis boat would be down that night, and he would just have time to pack
his clothes and catch it. He would not take his books, his philosophies. He would let them
remain, in the newspapered room, until all crumbled into uniform philosophic dust, and the
teachings of Aristotle blew about Niggertown.

Then, as he thought of traveling North, the vision of the honeymoon he had just planned revived
his numb brain into a dismal aching. He looked back through the dusk at the Dildine roof. It
stood black against an opalescent sky. Out of the foreground, bending over it, arose a clump
of tall sunflowers, in whose silhouette hung a suggestion of yellow and green. The whole scene
quivered slightly at every throb of his heart. He thought what a fool he was to allow a picaresque
past to keep him away from such a woman, how easy it would be to go back to the soft luxury
of Cissie, to tell her it made no difference; and somehow, just at that moment it seemed not to.

Then the point of view which Peter had been four years acquiring swept away the impulse, and
it left him moving toward his cabin again, empty, cold, and planless.

He was drawn out of his reverie by the soft voice of a little negro boy asking him apprehensively
whom he was talking to.

Peter stopped, drew forth a handkerchief and dabbed the moisture from his cold face in the
meticulous fashion of college men.

With the boy came a dog which was cautiously smelling Peter's shoes and trousers. Both boy
and dog were investigating the phenomenon of Peter. Peter, in turn, looked down at them with
a feeling that they had materialized out of nothing.

"What did you say?" he asked vaguely.

The boy was suddenly overcome with the excessive shyness of negro children, and barely managed
to whisper:

"I--I ast wh-who you wuz a-talkin' to."

"Was I talking?"

The little negro nodded, undecided whether to stand his ground or flee. Peter touched the child's
crisp hair.

"I was talking to myself," he said, and moved forward again.

The child instantly gained confidence at the slight caress, took a fold of Peter's trousers
in his hand for friendliness, and the two trudged on together.

"Wh-whut you talkin' to yo' se'f for?"

Peter glanced down at the little black head that promised to think up a thousand questions.

"I was wondering where to go."

"Lawsy! is you los' yo' way?"

He stroked the little head with a rush of self-pity.

"Yes, I have, son; I've completely lost my way."

The child twisted his head around and peered up alongside Peter's arm. Presently he asked:

"Ain't you Mr. Peter Siner?"

"Yes."

"Ain't you de man whut's gwine to ma'y Miss Cissie Dildine?"

Peter looked down at his small companion with a certain concern that his marriage was already
gossip known to babes.

"I'm Peter Siner," he repeated.

"Den I knows which way you wants to go," piped the youngster in sudden helpfulness. "You wants
to go over to Cap'n Renfrew's place acrost de Big Hill. He done sont fuh you. Mr. Wince Washington
tol' me, ef I seed you, to tell you dat Cap'n Renfrew wants to see you. I dunno whut hit's
about. I ast Wince, an' he didn' know."

Peter recalled the message Nan Berry had given him some hours before. Now the same summons
had seeped around to him from another direction.

"I--I'll show you de way to Cap'n Renfrew's ef--ef you'll come back wid me th'ugh de cedar
glade," proposed the child. "I--I ain't skeered in de cedar glade, b-b-but hit's so dark I
kain't see my way back home. I--I--"

Peter thanked him and declined his services. After all, he might as well go to see Captain
Renfrew. He owed the old gentleman some thanks--and ten dollars.

The only thing of which Peter Siner was aware during his walk over the Big Hill and through
the village was his last scene with Cissie. He went over it again and again, repeating their
conversation, inventing new replies, framing new action, questioning more fully into the octoroon's
vague confession and his benumbed acceptance of it. The moment his mind completed the little
drama it started again from the very beginning.

At Captain Renfrew's gate this mental mummery paused long enough for him to vacillate between
walking in or going around and shouting from the back gate. It is a point of etiquette in Hooker's
Bend that negroes shall enter a white house from the back stoop. Peter had no desire to transgress
this custom. On the other hand, if Captain Renfrew was receiving him as a fellow of Harvard,
the back door, in its way, would prove equally embarrassing.

After a certain indecision he compromised by entering the front gate and calling the Captain's
name from among the scattered bricks of the old walk.

The house lay silent, half smothered in a dark tangle of shrubbery. Peter called twice before
he heard the shuffle of house slippers, and then saw the Captain's dressing-gown at the piazza
steps.

"Is that you, Peter?" came a querulous voice.

"Yes, Captain. I was told you wanted to see me."

"You've been deliberate in coming," criticized the old gentleman, testily. "I sent you word
by some black rascal three days ago."

"I just received the message to-day." Peter remained discreetly at the gate.

"Yes; well, come in, come in. See if you can do anything with this damnable lamp."

The old man turned with a dignified drawing-together of his dressing- gown and moved back.
Apparently, the renovation of a cranky lamp was the whole content of the Captain's summons
to Peter.

There was something so characteristic in this incident that Peter was moved to a vague sense
of mirth. It was just like the old régime to call in a negro, a special negro, from ten miles
away to move a jar of ferns across the lawn or trim a box hedge or fix a lamp.

Peter followed the old gentleman around to the back piazza facing his study. There, laid out
on the floor, were all the parts of a gasolene lamp, together with a pipe-wrench, a hammer,
a little old-fashioned vise, a bar of iron, and an envelop containing the mantels and the more
delicate parts of the lamp.

"It's extraordinary to me," criticized the Captain, "why they can't make a gasolene lamp that
will go, and remain in a going condition."

"Has it been out of fix for three days?" asked Peter, sorry that the old gentleman should have
lacked a light for so long.

"No," growled the Captain; "it started gasping at four o'clock last night; so I put it out
and went to bed. I've been working at it this evening. There's a little hole in the tip,--if
I could see it,--a hair- sized hole, painfully small. Why any man wants to make gasolene lamps
with microscopic holes that ordinary intelligence must inform him will become clogged I cannot
conceive."

Peter ventured no opinion on this trait of lampmakers, but said that if the Captain knew where
he could get an oil hand-lamp for a little more light, he thought he could unstop the hole.

The Captain looked at his helper and shook his head.

"I am surprised at you, Peter. When I was your age, I could see an aperture like that hole
under the last quarter of the moon. In this strong light I could have--er--lunged the cleaner
through it, sir. You must have strained your eyes in college." He paused, then added: "You'll
find hand-lamps in any of the rooms fronting this porch. I don't know whether they have oil
in them or not--the shiftless niggers that come around to take care of this building--no dependence
to be put in them. When I try it myself, I do even worse."

The old gentleman's tone showed that he was thawing out of his irritable mood, and Peter sensed
that he meant to be amusing in an austere, unsmiling fashion. The Captain rubbed his delicate
wrinkled hands together in a pleased fashion and sat down in a big porch chair to await Peter's
assembling of the lamp. The brown man started down the long piazza, in search of a hand-light.

He found a lamp in the first room he entered, returned to the piazza, sat down on the edge
of it, and began his tinkering. The old Captain apparently watched him with profound satisfaction.
Presently, after the fashion of the senile, he began endless and minute instructions as to
how the lamp should be cleaned.

"Take the wire in your left hand, Peter,--that's right,--now hold the tip a little closer to
the light--no, place the mantels on the right side--that's the way I do it. System...." the
old man's monologue ran on and on, and became a murmur in Peter's ears. It was rather soothing
than otherwise. Now and then it held tremulous vibrations that might have been from age or
that might have been from some deep satisfaction mounting even to joy. But to Peter that seemed
hardly probable. No doubt it was senility. The Captain was a tottery old man, past the age
for any fundamental joy.

Night had fallen now, and a darkness, musky with autumn weeds, hemmed in the sphere of yellow
light on the old piazza. A black-and-white cat materialized out of the gloom, purring, and
arching against a pillar. The whole place was filled with a sense of endless leisure. The old
man, the cat, the perfume of the weeds, soothed in Peter even the rawness of his hurt at Cissie.

Indeed, in a way, the old manor became a sort of apology for the octoroon girl. The height
and the reach of the piazza, exaggerated by the darkness, suggested a time when retinues of
negroes passed through its dignified colonnades. Those black folk were a part of the place.
They came and went, picked up and used what they could, and that was all life held for them.
They were without wage, without rights, even to the possession of their own bodies; so by necessity
they took what they could. That was only fifty-odd years ago. Thus, in a way, Peter's surroundings
began a subtle explanation of and apology for Cissie, the whole racial training of black folk
in petty thievery. And that this should have touched Cissie--the meanness, the pathos of her
fate moved Peter.

The negro was aroused from his reverie by the old Captain's getting out of his chair and saying,
"Very good," and then Peter saw that he had finished the lamp. The two men rose and carried
it into the study, where Peter pumped and lighted it; a bit later its brilliant white light
flooded the room.

"Quite good." The old Captain stood rubbing his hands with his odd air of continued delight.
"How do you like this place, anyway, Peter?" He wrapped his gown around him, sat down in the
old Morris chair beside the book-piled table, and indicated another seat for Peter.

The mulatto took it, aware of a certain flexing of Hooker's Bend custom, where negroes, unless
old or infirm, are not supposed to sit in the presence of whites.

"Do you mean the study, Captain?"

"Yes, the study, the whole place."

"It's very pleasant," replied Peter; "it has the atmosphere of age."

Captain Renfrew nodded.

"These old places," pursued Peter, "always give me an impression of statesmanship, somehow.
I always think of grave old gentlemen busy with the cares of public policy."

The old man seemed gratified.

"You are sensitive to atmosphere. If I may say it, every Southron of the old régime was a statesman
by nature and training. The complete care of two or three hundred negroes, a regard for their
bodily, moral, and spiritual welfare, inevitably led the master into the impersonal attitude
of statecraft. It was a training, sir, in leadership, in social thinking, in, if you please,
altruism." The old gentleman thumped the arm of his chair with a translucent palm. "Yes, sir,
negro slavery was God's great lesson to the South in altruism and loving-kindness, sir! My
boy, I do believe with all my heart that the institution of slavery was placed here in God's
country to rear up giants of political leadership, that our nation might weather the revolutions
of the world. Oh, the Yankees are necessary! I know that!" The old Captain held up a palm at
Peter as if repressing an imminent retort. "I know the Yankees are the Marthas of the nation.
They furnish food and fuel to the ship of state, but, my boy, the reservoir of our country's
spiritual and mental strength, the Mary of our nation, must always be the South. Virginia is
the mother of Presidents!"

The Captain's oration left him rather breathless. He paused a moment, then asked:

"Peter, have you ever thought that we men of the leisure class owe a debt to the world?"

Peter smiled.

"I know the theory of the leisure class, but I've had very little practical experience with
leisure."

"Well, that's a subject close to my heart. As a scholar and a thinker, I feel that I should
give the fruits of my leisure to the world. Er--in fact, Peter, that is why I sent for you
to come and see me."

"Why you sent for me?" Peter was surprised at this turn.

"Precisely. You."

Here the old gentleman got himself out of his chair, walked across to one of a series of drawers
in his bookcases, opened it, and took out a sheaf of papers and a quart bottle. He brought
the papers and the bottle back to the table, made room for them, put the papers in a neat pile,
and set the bottle at a certain distance from the heap.

"Now, Peter, please hand me one of those wineglasses in the religious section of my library--I
always keep two or three glasses among my religious works, in memory of the fact that our Lord
and Master wrought a miracle at the feast of Cana, especially to bless the cup. Indeed, Peter,
thinking of that miracle at the wedding-feast, I wonder, sir, how the prohibitionists can defend
their conduct even to their own consciences, because logically, sir, logically, the miracle
of our gracious Lord completely cuts away the ground from beneath their feet!

"No wonder, when the Mikado sent a Japanese envoy to America to make a tentative examination
of Christianity as a proper creed for the state religion of Japan--no wonder, with this miracle
flouted by the prohibitionists, the embassy carried back the report that Americans really have
no faith in the religion they profess. Shameful! Shameful! Place the glass there on the left
of the bottle. A little farther away from the bottle, please, just a trifle more. Thank you."

The Captain poured himself a tiny glassful, and its bouquet immediately filled the room. There
was no guessing how old that whisky was.

"I will not break the laws of my country, Peter, no matter how godless and sacrilegious those
laws may be; therefore I cannot offer you a drink, but you will observe a second glass among
the religious works, and the bottle sits in plain view on the table--er--em." He watched Peter
avail himself of his opportunity, and then added, "Now, you may just drink to me, standing,
as you are, like that."

They drank, Peter standing, the old gentleman seated.

"It is just as necessary," pursued the old connoisseur, when Peter was reseated, "it is just
as necessary for a gentleman to have a delicate palate for the tints of the vine as it is for
him to have a delicate eye for the tints of the palette. Nature bestowed a taste both in art
and wine on man, which he should strive to improve at every opportunity. It is a gift from
God. Perhaps you would like another glass. No? Then accommodate me."

He drained this one, with Peter standing, worked his withered lips back and forth to experience
its full taste, then swallowed, and smacked.

"Now, Peter," he said, "the reason I asked you to come to see me is that I need a man about
this house. That will be one phase of your work. The more important part is that you shall
serve as a sort of secretary. I have here a manuscript." He patted the pile of papers. "My
handwriting is rather difficult. I want you to copy this matter out and get it ready for the
printer."

Peter became more and more astonished.

"Are you offering me a permanent place, Captain Renfrew?" he asked.

The old man nodded.

"I need a man with a certain liberality of culture. I will no doubt have you run through books
and periodicals and make note of any points germane to my thesis."

Peter looked at the pile of script on the table.

"That is very flattering, Captain; but the fact is, I came by your place at this hour because
I am just in the act of leaving here on the steamboat to-night."

The Captain looked at Peter with concern on his face. "Leaving Hooker's Bend?"

"Yes, sir."

"Why?"

Peter hesitated.

"Well, my mother is dead--"

"Yes, but your--your--your work is still here, Peter." The Captain fell into a certain confusion.
"A man's work, Peter; a man's work."

"Do you mean my school-teaching?"

Then came a pause. The conversation somehow had managed to leave them both somewhat at sea.
The Captain began again, in a different tone:

"Peter, I wish you to remain here with me for another reason. I am an old man, Peter. Anything
could happen to me here in this big house, and nobody would know it. I don't like to think
of it." The old man's tone quite painted his fears. "I am not afraid of death, Peter. I have
walked before God all my life save in one or two points, which, I believe, in His mercy, He
has forgiven me; but I cannot endure the idea of being found here some day in some unconsidered
posture, fallen out of a chair, or a-sprawl on the floor. I wish to die with dignity, Peter,
as I have lived."

"Then you mean that you want me to stay here with you until--until the end, Captain?"

The old man nodded.

"That is my desire, Peter, for an honorarium which you yourself shall designate. At my death,
you will receive some proper portion of my estate; in fact, the bulk of my estate, because
I leave no other heirs. I am the last Renfrew of my race, Peter."

Peter grew more and more amazed as the old gentleman unfolded this strange proposal. What queerer,
pleasanter berth could he find than that offered him here in the quietude of the old manor,
among books, tending the feeble flame of this old aristocrat's life? An air of scholasticism
hung about the library. In some corner of this dark oaken library his philosophies would rest
comfortably.

Then it occurred to Peter that he would have to continue his sleeping and eating in Niggertown,
and since his mother had died and his rupture with Cissie, the squalor and smells of the crescent
had become impossible. He told the old Captain his objections as diplomatically as possible.
The old man made short work of them. He wanted Peter to sleep in the manor within calling distance,
and he might begin this very night and stay on for a week or so as a sort of test whether he
liked the position or not. The Captain waited with some concern until Peter agreed to a trial.

After that the old gentleman talked on interminably of the South, of the suffrage movement,
the destructive influence it would have on the home, the Irish question, the Indian question,
whether the mound-builders did not spring from the two lost tribes of Israel--an endless outpouring
of curious facts, quaint reasoning, and extraordinary conclusions, all delivered with the great
dignity and in the flowing periods of an orator.

It was fully two o'clock in the morning when it occurred to the Captain that his new secretary
might like to go to bed. The old man took the hand-lamp which was still burning and led the
way out to the back piazza past a number of doors to a corner bedroom. He shuffled along in
his carpet slippers, followed by the black-and-white cat, which ran along, making futile efforts
to rub itself against his lean shanks. Peter followed in a sort of stupor from the flood of
words, ideas, and strange fancies that had been poured into his ears.

The Captain turned off the piazza into one of those old-fashioned Southern rooms with full-length
windows, which were really glazed doors, a ceiling so high that Peter could make out only vague
concentric rings of stucco-work among the shadows overhead, and a floor space of ball- room
proportions. In one corner was a huge canopy bed, across from it a clothes-press of dark wood,
and in another corner a large screen hiding the bathing arrangements.

Peter's bedroom was a sleeping apartment, in the old sense of the word before the term "apartment"
had lost its dignity.

The Captain placed the lamp on the great table and indicated Peter's possession with a wave
of the hand.

"If you stay here, Peter, I will put in a call-bell, so I can awaken you if I need you during
the night. Now I wish you healthful slumbers and pleasant dreams." With that the old gentleman
withdrew ceremoniously.

When the Captain was gone, the mulatto remained standing in the vast expanse, marveling over
this queer turn of fortune. Why Captain Renfrew had selected him as a secretary and companion
Peter could not fancy.

The magnificence of his surroundings revived his late dream of a honeymoon with Cissie. Certainly,
in his fancy, he had visioned a honeymoon in Pullman parlor cars and suburban bungalows. He
had been mistaken. This great chamber rose about him like a corrected proof of his desire.

Into just such a room he would like to lead Cissie; into this great room that breathed pride
and dignity. What a glowing heart the girl would have made for its somber magnificence!

He walked over to the full-length windows and opened them; then he unbolted the jalousies outside
and swung them back. The musk of autumn weeds breathed in out of the darkness. Peter drew a
long breath, with a sort of wistful melting in his chest.

                               CHAPTER IX

A turmoil aroused Peter Siner the next morning, and when he discovered where he was, in the
big canopy bed in the great room, he listened curiously and heard a continuous chattering and
quarreling. After a minute or two he recognized the voice of old Rose Hobbett. Rose was cooking
the Captain's breakfast, and she performed this function in a kind of solitary rage. She banged
the vessels, slammed the stove-eyes on and off, flung the stove-wood about, and kept up a snarling
animadversion upon every topic that drifted through her kinky head. She called the kitchen
a rat-hole, stated the Captain must be as mean as the devil to live as long as he did, complained
that no one ever paid any attention to her, that she might as well be a stray cat, and so on.

As Peter grew wider awake, the monotony of the old negress's rancor faded into an unobserved
noise. He sat up on the edge of his bed between the parted curtains and divined there was a
bath behind the screen in the corner of his room. Sure enough, he found two frayed but clean
towels, a pan, a pitcher, and a small tub all made of tin. Peter assembled his find and began
splashing his heavily molded chest with a feeling of well-being. As he splashed on the water,
he amused himself by listening again to old Rose. She was now complaining that some white young'uns
had called her "raving Rose." She hoped "God'lmighty would send down two she bears and eat
'em up." Peter was amazed by the old crone's ability to maintain an unending flow of concentrated
and aimless virulence.

The kitchen of the Renfrew manor was a separate building, and presently Peter saw old Rose
carrying great platters across the weed-grown compound into the dining-room. She bore plate
after plate piled high with cookery,--enough for a company of men. A little later came a clangor
on a rusty triangle, as if she were summoning a house party. Old Rose did things in a wholesale
spirit.

Peter started for his door, but when he had opened the shutter, he stood hesitating. Breakfast
introduced another delicate problem. He decided not to go to the dining-room at once, but to
wait and allow Captain Renfrew to indicate whether he, Peter, should break his fast with the
master in the dining-room or with old Rose in the kitchen.

A moment later he saw the Captain coming down the long back piazza. Peter almost addressed
his host, but the old Southerner proceeded into the dining-room apparently without seeing Peter
at all.

The guest was gathering his breath to call good morning, but took the cue with a negro's sensitiveness,
and let his eyes run along the weeds in the compound. The drying stalks were woven with endless
spider-webs, all white with frost. Peter stood regarding their delicate geometries a moment
longer and then reentered his room, not knowing precisely what to do. He could hear Rose walking
across the piazza to and from the dining- room, and the clink of tableware. A few minutes later
a knock came at his door, and the old woman entered with a huge salver covered with steaming
dishes.

The negress came into the room scowling, and seemed doubtful for a moment just how to shut
the door and still hold the tray with both hands. She solved the problem by backing against
the door tremendously. Then she saw Peter. She straightened and stared at him with outraged
dignity.

"Well, 'fo' Gawd! Is I bringin' dish-here breakfus' to a nigger?"

"I suppose it's mine," agreed Peter, amused.

"But whuffo, whuffo, nigger, is it dat you ain't come to de kitchen an' eat off'n de shelf?
Is you sick?"

Peter admitted fair bodily vigor.

"Den whut de debbil is I got into!" cried Rose, angrily. "I ain't gwine wuck at no sich place,
ca'yin' breakfus' to a big beef uv a nigger, stout as a mule. Say, nigger, wha-chu doin' in
heah, anyway? Hoccum dis?"

Peter tried to explain that he was there to do a little writing for the Captain.

"Well, 'fo' Gawd, when niggers gits to writin' fuh white folks, ants'll be jumpin' fuh bullfrogs--an
havin' other niggers bring dey breakfusses. You jes as much a nigger as I is, Peter Siner,
de brightes' day you ever seen!"

Peter began a conciliatory phrase.

Old Rose banged the platter on the table and then threatened:

"Dis is de las' time I fetches a moufful to you, Peter Siner, or any other nigger. You ain't
no black Jesus, even ef you is a woods calf."

Peter paused in drawing a chair to the table.

"What did you say, Rose?" he asked sharply.

"You heared whut I say."

A wave of anger went over Peter.

"Yes, I did. You ought to be ashamed to speak ill of the dead."

The crone tossed her malicious head, a little abashed, perhaps, yet very glad she had succeeded
in hurting Peter. She turned and went out the door, mumbling something which might have been
apology or renewed invectives.

Peter watched the old virago close the door and then sat down to his breakfast. His anger presently
died away, and he sat wondering what could have happened to Rose Hobbett that had corroded
her whole existence. Did she enjoy her vituperation, her continual malice? He tried to imagine
how she felt.

The breakfast Rose had brought him was delicious: hot biscuits of feathery lightness, three
wide slices of ham, a bowl of scrambled eggs, a pot of coffee, some preserved raspberries,
and a tiny glass of whisky.

The plate which Captain Renfrew had set before his guest was a delicate dawn pink ringed with
a wreath of holly. It was old Worcester porcelain of about the decade of 1760. The coffee-pot
was really an old Whieldon teapot in broad cauliflower design. Age and careless heating had
given the surface a fine reticulation. His cup and saucer, on the contrary, were thick pieces
of ware such as the cabin-boys toss about on steamboats. The whole ceramic mélange told of
the fortuities of English colonial and early American life, of the migration of families westward.
No doubt, once upon a time, that dawn-pink Worcester had married into a Whieldon cauliflower
family. A queer sort of genealogy might be traced among Southern families through their mixtures
of tableware.

As Peter mused over these implications of long ancestral lines, it reminded him that he had
none. Over his own past, over the lineage of nearly every negro in the South, hung a curtain.
Even the names of the colored folk meant nothing, and gave no hint of their kin and clan. At
the end of the war between the States, Peter's people had selected names for themselves, casually,
as children pick up a pretty stone. They meant nothing. It occurred to Peter for the first
time, as he sat looking at the chinaware, that he knew nothing about himself; whether his kinsmen
were valiant or recreant he did not know. Even his own father he knew little about except that
his mother had said his name was Peter, like his own, and that he had gone down the river on
a tie boat and was drowned.

A faint sound attracted Peter's attention. He looked out at his open window and saw old Rose
making off the back way with something concealed under her petticoat. Peter knew it was the
unused ham and biscuits that she had cooked. For once the old negress hurried along without
railing at the world. She moved with a silent, but, in a way, self-respecting, flight. Peter
could see by the tilt of her head and the set of her shoulders that not only did her spoil
gratify her enmity to mankind in general and the Captain in particular, but she was well within
her rights in her acquisition. She disappeared around a syringa bush, and was heard no more
until she reappeared to cook the noon meal, as vitriolic as ever.

                    *       *       *       *       *

When Peter entered the library, old Captain Renfrew greeted him with morning wishes, thus sustaining
the fiction that they had not seen each other before, that morning.

The old gentleman seemed pleased but somewhat excited over his new secretary. He moved some
of his books aimlessly from one table to another, placed them in exact piles as if he were
just about to plunge into heroic labor, and could not give time to such details once he had begun.

As he arranged his books just so, he cleared his throat.

"Now, Peter, we want to get down to this," he announced dynamically; "do this thing, shove
this work out!" He started with tottery briskness around to his manuscript drawer, but veered
off to the left to aline some magazines. "System, Peter, system. Without system one may well
be hopeless of performing any great literary labor; but with system, the constant piling up
of brick on brick, stone on stone--it's the way Rome was built, my boy."

Peter made a murmur supposed to acknowledge the correctness of this view.

Eventually the old Captain drew out his drawer of manuscript, stood fumbling with it uncertainly.
Now and then he glanced at Peter, a genuine secretary who stood ready to help him in his undertaking.
The old gentleman picked up some sheets of his manuscript, seemed about to read them aloud,
but after a moment shook his head, and said, "No, we'll do that to-night," and restored them
to their places. Finally he turned to his helper.

"Now, Peter," he explained, "in doing this work, I always write at night. It's quieter then,--less
distraction. My mornings I spend downtown in conversation with my friends. If you should need
me, Peter, you can walk down and find me in front of the livery-stable. I sit there for a while
each morning."

The gravity with which he gave this schedule of his personal habits amused Peter, who bowed
with a serious, "Very well, Captain."

"And in the meantime," pursued the old man, looking vaguely about the room, "you will do well
to familiarize yourself with my library in order that you may be properly qualified for your
secretarial labors."

Peter agreed again.

"And now if you will get my hat and coat, I will be off and let you go to work," concluded
the Captain, with an air of continued urgency.

Peter became thoroughly amused at such an outcome of the old gentleman's headlong attack on
his work,--a stroll down to the village to hold conversation with friends. The mulatto walked
unsmilingly to a little closet where the Captain hung his things. He took down the old gentleman's
tall hat, a gray greatcoat worn shiny about the shoulders and tail, and a finely carved walnut
cane. Some reminiscence of the manners of butlers which Peter had seen in theaters caused him
to swing the overcoat across his left arm and polish the thin nap of the old hat with his right
sleeve. He presented it to his employer with a certain duplication of a butler's obsequiousness.
He offered the overcoat to the old gentleman's arms with the same air. Then he held up the
collar of the greatcoat with one hand and with the other reached under its skirts, and drew
down the Captain's long day coat with little jerks, as if he were going through a ritual.

Peter grew more and more hilarious over his barber's manners. It was his contribution to the
old gentleman's literary labors, and he was doing it beautifully, so he thought. He was just
making some minute adjustments of the collar when, to his amazement, Captain Renfrew turned on him.

"Damn it, sir!" he flared out. "What do you think you are? I didn't engage you for a kowtowing
valet in waiting, sir! I asked you, sir, to come under my roof as an intellectual co-worker,
as one gentleman asks another, and here you are making these niggery motions! They are disgusting!
They are defiling! They are beneath the dignity of one gentleman to another, sir! What makes
it more degrading, I perceive by your mannerism that you assume a specious servility, sir,
as if you would flatter me by it!"

The old lawyer's face was white. His angry old eyes jerked Peter out of his slight mummery.
The negro felt oddly like a grammar-school boy caught making faces behind his master's back.
It shocked him into sincerer manners.

"Captain," he said with a certain stiffness, "I apologize for my mistake; but may I ask how
you desire me to act?"

"Simply, naturally, sir," thundered the Captain, "as one alumnus of Harvard to another! It
is quite proper for a young man, sir, to assist an old gentleman with his hat and coat, but
without fripperies and genuflections and absurdities!"

The old man's hauteur touched some spring of resentment in Peter. He shook his head.

"No, Captain; our lack of sympathy goes deeper than manners. My position here is anomalous.
For instance, I can talk to you sitting, I can drink with you standing, but I can't breakfast
with you at all. I do that in camera, like a disgraceful divorce proceeding. It's precisely
as I was treated coming down here South again; it's as I've been treated ever since I've been
back; it's--" He paused abruptly and swallowed down the rancor that filled him. "No," he repeated
in a different tone, "there is no earthly excuse for me to remain here, Captain, or to let
you go on measuring out your indulgences to me. There is no way for us to get together or to
work together--not this far South. Let me thank you for a night's entertainment and go."

Peter turned about, meaning to make an end of this queer adventure.

The old Captain watched him, and his pallor increased. He lifted an unsteady hand.

"No, no, Peter," he objected, "not so soon. This has been no trial, no fair trial. The little--little--er--details
of our domestic life here, they will--er--arrange themselves, Peter. Gossip--talk, you know,
we must avoid that." The old lawyer stood staring with strange eyes at his protégé. "I--I'm
interested in you, Peter. My actions may seem--odd, but--er--a negro boy going off and doing
what you have done-- extraordinary. I--I have spoken to your mother, Caroline, about you often.
In fact, Peter, I--I made some little advances in order that you might complete your studies.
Now, now, don't thank me! It was purely impersonal. You seemed bright. I have often thought
we gentle people of the South ought to do more to encourage our black folk--not--not as social
equals--" Here the old gentleman made a wry mouth as if he had tasted salt.

"Stay here and look over the library," he broke off abruptly. "We can arrange some ground of--of
common action, some--"

He settled the lapels of his great-coat with precision, addressed his palm to the knob of his
stick, and marched stiffly out of the library, around the piazza, and along the dismantled
walk to the front gate.

Peter stood utterly astonished at this strange information. Suddenly he ran after the old lawyer,
and rounded the turn of the piazza in time to see him walk stiffly down the shaded street with
tremulous dignity. The old gentleman was much the same as usual, a little shakier, perhaps,
his tall hat a little more polished, his shiny gray overcoat set a little more snugly at the
collar.

                               CHAPTER X

The village of Hooker's Bend amuses itself mainly with questionable jests that range all the
way from the slightly brackish to the hopelessly obscene. Now, in using this type of anecdote,
the Hooker's- Benders must not be thought to design an attack upon the decencies of life; on
the contrary, they are relying on the fact that their hearers have, in the depths of their
beings, a profound reverence for the object of their sallies. And so, by taking advantage of
the moral shock they produce and linking it to the idea of an absurdity, they convert the whole
psychical reaction into an explosion of humor. Thus the ring of raconteurs telling blackguardly
stories around the stoves in Hooker's Bend stores, are, in reality, exercising one another
in the more delicate sentiments of life, and may very well be classed as a round table of Sir
Galahads, sans peur et sans reproche.

However, the best men weary in well doing, and for the last few days Hooker's Bend had switched
from its intellectual staple of conversation to consider the comedy of Tump Pack's undoing.
The incident held undeniably comic elements. For Tump to start out carrying a forty-four, meaning
to blow a rival out of his path, and to wind up hard at work, picking cotton at nothing a day
for a man whose offer of three dollars a day he had just refused, certainly held the makings
of a farce.

On the heels of this came the news that Peter Siner meant to take advantage of Tump's arrest
and marry Cissie Dildine. Old Parson Ranson was responsible for the spread of this last rumor.
He had fumbled badly in his effort to hold Peter's secret. Not once, but many times, always
guarded by a pledge of secrecy, had he revealed the approaching wedding. When pressed for a
date, the old negro said he was "not at lib'ty to tell."

Up to this point white criticism viewed the stage-setting of the black comedy with the impersonal
interest of a box party. Some of the round table said they believed there would be a dead coon
or so before the scrape was over.

Dawson Bobbs, the ponderous constable, went to the trouble to telephone Mr. Cicero Throgmartin,
for whom Tump was working, cautioning Throgmartin to make sure that Tump Pack was in the sleeping-shack
every night, as he might get wind of the wedding and take a notion to bolt and stop it. "You
know, you can't tell what a fool nigger'll do," finished Bobbs.

Throgmartin was mildly amused, promised the necessary precautions, and said:

"It looks like Peter has put one over on Tump, and maybe a college education does help a nigger
some, after all."

The constable thought it was just luck.

"Well, I dunno," said Throgmartin, who was a philosopher, and inclined to view every matter
from various angles. "Peter may of worked this out somehow."

"Have you heard what Henry Hooker done to Siner in the land deal?"

Throgmartin said he had.

"No, I don't mean that. I mean Henry's last wrinkle in garnisheeing old Ca'line's estate in
his bank for the rest of the purchase money on the Dilihay place."

There was a pause.

"You don't mean it!"

"Damn 'f I don't."

The constable's sentence shook with suppressed mirth, and the next moment roars of laughter
came over the telephone wire.

"Say, ain't he the bird!"

"He's the original early bird. I'd like to get a snap-shot of the worm that gets away from him."

Both men laughed heartily again.

"But, say," objected Throgmartin, who was something of a lawyer himself,--as, indeed, all Southern
men are,--"I thought the Sons and Daughters of Benevolence owed Hooker, not Peter Siner, nor
Ca'line's estate."

"Well, it is the Sons and Daughters, but Ca'line was one of 'em, and they ain't no limited
li'bility 'sociation. Henry can jump on anything any of 'em's got. Henry got the Persimmon
to bring him a copy of their by-laws."

"Well, I swear! Say, if Henry wasn't kind of held back by his religion, he'd use a gun, wouldn't
he?"

"I dunno. I can say this for Henry's religion: 'It's jest like Henry's wife,--it's the dearest
thing to his heart; he'd give his life for it, but it don't do nobody a damn bit of good except
jest Henry.'"

The constable's little eyes twinkled as he heard Throgmartin roaring with laughter and sputtering
appreciative oaths.

At that moment a ringing of the bell jarred the ears of both telephonists. A voice asked for
Dr. Jallup. It was an ill time to interrupt two gentlemen. The flair of a jest is lost in a
pause. The officer stated sharply that he was the constable of Wayne County and was talking
business about the county's prisoners. His tone was so charged with consequence that the voice
that wanted a doctor apologized hastily and ceased.

Came a pause in which neither man found anything to say. Laughter is like that,--a gay bubble
that a touch will destroy. Presently Bobbs continued, gravely enough:

"Talking about Siner, he's stayin' up at old man Renfrew's now."

"'At so?"

"Old Rose Hobbett swears he's doin' some sort of writin' up there and livin' in one of the
old man's best rooms."

"Hell he is!"

"Yeah?" the constable's voice questioned Throgmartin's opinion about such heresy and expressed
his own.

"D' recken it's so? Old Rose is such a thief and a liar."

"Nope," declared the constable, "the old nigger never would of made up a lie like that,--never
would of thought of it. Old Cap'n Renfrew's gettin' childish; this nigger's takin' advantage
of it. Down at the liver'-stable the boys were talkin' about Siner goin' to git married, an'
dern if old man Renfrew didn't git cut up about it!"

"Well," opined Throgmartin, charitably, "the old man livin' there all by himself--I reckon
even a nigger is some comp'ny. They're funny damn things, niggers is; never know a care nor
trouble. Lord! I wish I was as care-free as they are!"

"Don't you, though!" agreed the constable, with the weight of the white man's burden on his
shoulders. For this is a part of the Southern credo,--that all negroes are gay, care-free,
and happy, and that if one could only be like the negroes, gay, care-free, and happy--Ah, if
one could only be like the negroes!

None of this gossip reached Peter directly, but a sort of back-wash did catch him keenly through
young Sam Arkwright and serve as a conundrum for several days.

One morning Peter was bringing an armful of groceries up the street to the old manor, and he
met the boy coming in the opposite direction. The negro's mind was centered on a peculiar problem
he had found in the Renfrew library, so, according to a habit he had acquired in Boston, he
took the right-hand side of the pavement, which chanced to be the inner side. This violated
a Hooker's-Bend convention, which decrees that when a white and a black meet on the sidewalk,
the black man invariably shall take the outer side.

For this faux pas the gangling youth stopped Peter, fell to abusing and cursing him for his
impudence, his egotism, his attempt at social equality,--all of which charges, no doubt, were
echoes from the round table. Such wrath over such an offense was unusual. Ordinarily, a white
villager would have thought several uncomplimentary things about Peter, but would have said
nothing.

Peter stopped with a shock of surprise, then listened to the whole diatribe with a rising sense
of irritation and irony. Finally, without a word, he corrected his mistake by retracing his
steps and passing Sam again, this time on the outside.

Peter walked on up the street, outwardly calm, but his ears burned, and the queer indignity
stuck in his mind. As he went along he invented all sorts of ironical remarks he might have
made to Arkwright, which would have been unwise; then he thought of sober reasoning he could
have used, which would perhaps have been just as ill-advised. Still later he wondered why Arkwright
had fallen into such a rage over such a trifle. Peter felt sure there was some contributing
rancor in the youth's mind. Perhaps he had received a scolding at home or a whipping at school,
or perhaps he was in the midst of one of those queer attacks of megalomania from which adolescents
are chronic sufferers. Peter fancied this and that, but he never came within hail of the actual
reason.

When the brown man reached the old manor, the quietude of the library, with its blackened mahogany
table, its faded green Axminster, the meridional globe with its dusty twinkle, banished the
incident from his mind. He returned to his work of card-indexing the Captain's books. He took
half a dozen at a time from the shelves, dusted them on the piazza, then carried them to the
embrasure of the window, which offered a pleasant light for reading and for writing the cards.

He went through volume after volume,--speeches by Clay, Calhoun, Yancy, Prentiss, Breckenridge;
an old life of General Taylor, Foxe's "Book of Martyrs"; a collection of the old middle-English
dramatists, such as Lillo, Garrick, Arthur Murphy, Charles Macklin, George Colman, Charles
Coffey, men whose plays have long since declined from the boards and disappeared from the reading-table.

The Captain's collection of books was strongly colored by a religious cast,--John Wesley's
sermons, Charles Wesley's hymns; a treatise presenting a biblical proof that negroes have no
souls; a little book called "Flowers Gathered," which purported to be a compilation of the
sayings of ultra-pious children, all of whom died young; an old book called "Elements of Criticism,"
by Henry Home of Kames; another tome entitled "Studies of Nature," by St. Pierre. This last
was a long argument for the miraculous creation of the world as set forth in Genesis. The proof
offered was a résumé of the vegetable, animal, and mineral kingdoms, showing their perfect
fitness for man's use, and the immediate induction was that they were designed for man's use.
Still another work calculated the exact age of the earth by the naïve method of counting the
generations from Adam to Christ, to the total adding eighteen hundred and eighty-five years
(for the book was written in 1885), and the original six days it required the Lord to build
the earth. By referring to Genesis and finding out precisely what the Creator did on the morning
of the first day, the writer contrived to bring his calculation of the age of the earth and
everything in the world to a precision of six hours, give or take,--a somewhat closer schedule
than that made by the Tennessee river boats coming up from St. Louis.

These and similar volumes formed the scientific section of Captain Renfrew's library, and it
was this paucity of the natural sciences that formed the problem which Peter tried to solve.
All scientific additions came to an abrupt stop about the decade of 1880-90. That was the date
when Charles Darwin's great fructifying theory, enunciated in 1859, began to seep into the South.

In the Captain's library the only notice of evolution was a book called "Darwinism Dethroned."
As for the elaborations of the Darwinian hypothesis by Spencer, Fiske, DeVries, Weismann, Haeckel,
Kidd, Bergson, and every subsequent philosophic or biologic writer, all these men might never
have written a line so far as Captain Renfrew's library was informed.

Now, why such extraordinary occlusions? Why should Captain Renfrew deny himself the very commonplaces
of thought, theories familiarly held by the rest of America, and, indeed, by all the rest of
the civilized world?

Musing by the window, Peter succeeded in stating his problem more broadly: Why was Captain
Renfrew an intellectual reactionist? The old gentleman was the reverse of stupid. Why should
he confine his selection of books to a few old oddities that had lost their battle against
a theory which had captured the intellectual world fifty years before?

Nor was it Captain Renfrew alone. Now and then Peter saw editorials appearing in leading Southern
journals, seriously attacking the evolutionary hypothesis. Ministers in respectable churches
still fulminated against it. Peter knew that the whole South still clings, in a way, to the
miraculous and special creation of the earth as described in Genesis. It clings with an intransigentism
and bitterness far exceeding other part of America. Why? To Peter the problem appeared insoluble.

He sat by the window lost in his reverie. Just outside the ledge half a dozen English sparrows
abused one another with chirps that came faintly through the small diamond panes. Their quick
movements held Peter's eyes, and their endless quarreling presently recalled his episode with
young Arkwright. It occurred to him, casually, that when Arkwright grew up he would subscribe
to every reactionary doctrine set forth in the library Peter was indexing.

With that thought came a sort of mental flare, as if he were about to find the answer to the
whole question through the concrete attack made on him by Sam.

It is an extraordinary feeling,--the sudden, joyful dawn of a new idea. Peter sat up sharply
and leaned forward with a sense of being right on the fringe of a new and a great perception.
Young Arkwright, the old Captain, the whole South, were unfolding themselves in a vast answer,
when a movement outside the window caught the negro's introspective eyes.

A girl was passing; a girl in a yellow dress was passing the Renfrew gate. Even then Peter
would not have wavered in his synthesis had not the girl paused slightly and given a swift
side glance at the old manor. Then the man in the window recognized Cissie Dildine.

A slight shock traveled through Siner's body at the sight of Cissie's colorless face and darkened
eyes. He stood up abruptly, with a feeling that he had some urgent thing to say to the young
woman. His sharp movement toppled over the big globe.

The crash caused the girl to stop and look. For a moment they stood thus, the girl in the chill
street, the man in the pleasant window, looking at each other. Next moment Cissie hurried on
up the village street toward the Arkwright house. No doubt she was on her way to cook the noon
meal.

Peter remained standing at the window, with a heavily beating heart. He watched her until she
vanished behind a wing of the shrubbery in the Renfrew yard.

When she had gone, he looked at his books and cards, sat down, and tried to resume his indexing.
But his mind played away from it like a restive horse. It had been two weeks since he last
saw Cissie. Two weeks.... His nerves vibrated like the strings of a pianoforte. He had scarcely
thought of her during the fortnight; but now, having seen her, he found himself powerless to
go on with his work. He pottered a while longer among the books and cards, but they were meaningless.
They appeared an utter futility. Why index a lot of nonsense? Somehow this recalled his flare,
his adumbration of some great idea connected with young Arkwright and the old Captain, and
the South.

He put his trembling nerves to work, trying to recapture his line of thought. He sat for ten
minutes, following this mental train, then that, losing one, groping for another. His thoughts
were jumpy. They played about Arkwright, the Captain, Cissie, his mother's death, Tump Pack
in prison, the quarrel between the Persimmon and Jim Pink Staggs. The whole of Niggertown came
rushing down upon him, seizing him in its passion and dustiness and greasiness, putting to
flight all his cultivated white-man ideas.

After half an hour's searching he gave it up. Before he left the room he stooped, and tried
to set up again the globe that the passing of the girl had caused him to throw down; but its
pivot was out of plumb, and he had to lean it against the window-seat.

The sight of Captain Renfrew coming in at the gate sent Peter to his room. The hour was near
twelve, and it had become a little point of household etiquette for the mulatto and the white
man not to be together when old Rose jangled the triangle. By this means they forestalled the
mute discourtesy of the old Captain's walking away from his secretary to eat. The subject of
their separate meals had never been mentioned since their first acrimonious morning. The matter
had dropped into the abeyance of custom, just as the old gentleman had predicted.

Peter had left open his jalousies, but his windows were closed, and now as he entered he found
his apartment flooded with sunshine and filled with that equable warmth that comes of straining
sunbeams through glass.

He prepared for dinner with his mind still hovering about Cissie. He removed a book and a lamp
from the lion-footed table, and drew up an old chair with which the Captain had furnished his
room. It was a delicate old Heppelwhite of rosewood. It had lost a finial from one of its back
standards, and a round was gone from the left side. Peter never moved the chair that vague
plans sometime to repair it did not occur to him.

When he had cleared his table and placed his chair beside it, he wandered over to his tall
west window and stood looking up the street through the brilliant sunshine, toward the Arkwright
home. No one was in sight. In Hooker's Bend every one dines precisely at twelve, and at that
hour the streets are empty. It would be some time before Cissie came back down the street on
her way to Niggertown. She first would have to wash and put away the Arkwright dishes. It would
be somewhere about one o'clock. Nevertheless, he kept staring out through the radiance of the
autumn sunlight with an irrational feeling that she might appear at any moment. He was afraid
she would slip past and he not see her at all. The thought disturbed him somewhat. It kept
him sufficiently on the alert to stand tapping the balls of his fingers against the glass and
looking steadily toward the Arkwright house.

Presently the watcher perceived that a myriad spider-webs filled the sunshine with a delicate
dancing glister. It was the month of voyaging spiders. Invisible to Peter, the tiny spinners
climbed to the tip-most twigs of the dead weeds, listed their abdomens, and lassoed the wind
with gossamer lariats; then they let go and sailed away to a hazard of new fortunes. The air
was full of the tiny adventurers. As he stared up the street, Peter caught the glint of these
invisible airships whisking away to whatever chance might hold for them. There was something
epic in it. It recalled to the mulatto's mind some of Fabre's lovely descriptions. It reminded
him of two or three books on entomology which he had left in his mother's cabin. He felt he
ought to go after them while the spiders were migrating. He suddenly made up his mind he would
go at once, as soon as he had had dinner; somewhere about one o'clock.

He looked again at the Arkwright house. The thought of walking down the street with Cissie,
to get his books, quickened his heart.

He was still at the window when his door opened and old Rose entered with his dinner. She growled
under her breath all the way from the door to the table on which she placed the tray. Only
a single phrase detached itself and stood out clearly amid her mutterings, "Hope it chokes you."

Peter arranged his chair and table with reference to the window, so he could look up the street
while he was eating his dinner.

The ill-wishing Rose had again furnished a gourmet's meal, but Peter's preoccupation prevented
its careful and appreciative gustation. An irrational feeling of the octoroon's imminence spurred
him to fast eating. He had hardly begun his soup before he found himself drinking swiftly,
looking up the street over his spoon, as if he meant to rush out and swing aboard a passing train.

Siner checked his precipitation, annoyed at himself. He began again, deliberately, with an
attempt to keep his mind on the savor of his food. He even thought of abandoning his little
design of going for the books; or he would go at a different hour, or to-morrow, or not at
all. He told himself he would far better allow Cissie Dildine to pass and repass unspoken to,
instead of trying to arrange an accidental meeting. But the brown man's nerves wouldn't hear
to it. That automatic portion of his brain and spinal column which, physiologists assert, performs
three fourths of a man's actions and conditions nine tenths of his volitions-- that part of
Peter wouldn't consider it. It began to get jumpy and scatter havoc in Peter's thoughts at
the mere suggestion of not seeing Cissie. Imperceptibly this radical left wing of his emotions
speeded up his meal, again. He caught himself, stopped his knife and fork in the act of rending
apart a broiled chicken.

"Confound it! I'll start when she comes in sight, no matter whether I've finished this meal
or not," he promised himself.

And suddenly he felt unhurried, in the midst of a large leisure, with a savory broiled chicken
dinner before him,--not exactly before him, either; most of it had been stuffed away. Only
the fag-end remained on his plate. A perfectly good meal had been ruined by an ill-timed resistance
to temptation.

The glint of a yellow dress far up the street had just prompted him to swift action when the
door opened and old Rose put her head in to say that Captain Renfrew wanted to see Peter in
the library.

The brown man came to a shocked standstill.

"What! Right now?" he asked.

"Yeah, right now," carped Rose. "Ever'thing he wants, he wants right now. He's been res'less
as a cat in a bulldog's den ever sence he come home fuh dinner. Dunno whut's come into he ole
bones, runnin' th'ugh his dinner lak a razo'-back." She withdrew in a continued mumble of censure.

Peter cast a glance up the street, timed Cissie's arrival at the front gate, picked up his
hat, and walked briskly to the library in the hope of finishing any business the Captain might
have, in time to encounter the octoroon. He even began making some little conversational plans
with which he could meet Cissie in a simple, unstudied manner. He recalled with a certain satisfaction
that he had not said a word of condemnation the night of Cissie's confession. He would make
a point of that, and was prepared to argue that, since he had said nothing, he meant nothing.
In fact he was prepared to throw away the truth completely and enter the conversation as an
out-and-out opportunist, alleging whatever appeared to fit the occasion, as all men talk to
all women.

The old Captain was just getting into his chair as Peter entered. He paused in the midst of
lowering himself by the chair-arms and got erect again. He began speaking a little uncertainly:

"Ah--by the way, Peter--I sent for you--"

"Yes, sir." Peter looked out at the window.

The old gentleman scrutinized Peter a moment; then his faded eyes wandered about the library.

"Still working at the books, cross-indexing them--"

"Yes, sir." Peter could divine by the crinkle of his nerves the very loci of the girl as she
passed down the thoroughfare.

"Very good," said the old lawyer, absently. He was obviously preoccupied with some other topic.
"Very good," he repeated with racking deliberation; "quite good. How did that globe get bent?"

Peter, looking at it, did not remember either knocking it over or setting it up.

"I don't know," he said rapidly. "I hadn't noticed it."

"Old Rose did it," meditated the Captain aloud, "but it's no use to accuse her of it; she'd
deny it. And yet, on the other hand, Peter, she'll be nervous until I do accuse her of it.
She'll be dropping things, breaking up my china. I dare say I'd best accuse her at once, storm
at her some to quiet her nerves, and get it over."

This monologue spurred Peter's impatience into an agony.

"I believe you were wanting me, Captain?" he suggested, with a certain urge for action.

The Captain's little pleasantry faded. He looked at Peter and became uncomfortable again.

"Well, yes, Peter. Downtown I heard--well, a rumor connected with you--"

Such an extraordinary turn caught the attention of even the fidgety Peter. He looked at his
employer and wondered blankly what he had heard.

"I don't want to intrude on your private affairs, Peter, not at all-- not--not in the least--"

"No-o-o," agreed Peter, completely at a loss.

The old gentleman rubbed his thin hands together, lifted his eyebrows up and down nervously.
"Are--are you about to--to leave me, Peter?"

Peter was greatly surprised at the slightness and simplicity of this question and at the evidence
of emotion it carried.

"Why, no," he cried; "not at all! Who told you I was? It is a deep gratification to me--"

"To be exact," proceeded the old man, with a vague fear still in his eyes, "I heard you were
going to marry."

"Marry!" This flaw took Peter's sails even more unexpectedly than the other. "Captain, who
in the world--who could have told--"

"Are you?"

"No."

"You aren't?"

"Indeed, no!"

"I heard you were going to marry a negress here in town called Cissie Dildine." A question
was audible in the silence that followed this statement. The obscure emotion that charged all
the old man's queries affected Peter.

"I am not, Captain," he declared earnestly; "that's settled."

"Oh--you say it's settled," picked up the old lawyer, delicately.

"Yes."

"Then you had thought of it?" Immediately, however, he corrected this breach of courtesy into
which his old legal habit of cross-questioning had led him. "Well, at any rate," he said in
quite another voice, "that eases my mind, Peter. It eases my mind. It was not only, Peter,
the thought of losing you, but this girl you were thinking of marrying--let me warn you, Peter--she's
a negress."

The mulatto stared at the strange objection.

"A negress!"

The old man paused and made that queer movement with his wrinkled lips as if he tasted some
salty flavor.

"I--I don't mean exactly a--a negress," stammered the old gentleman; "I mean she's not a--a
good girl, Peter; she's a--a thief, in fact--she's a thief--a thief, Peter. I couldn't endure
for you to marry a thief, Peter."

It seemed to Peter Siner that some horrible compulsion kept the old Captain repeating over
and over the fact that Cissie Dildine was a thief, a thief, a thief. The word cut the very
viscera in the brown man. At last, when it seemed the old gentleman would never cease, Peter
lifted a hand.

"Yes, yes," he gasped, with a sickly face, "I--I've heard that before."

He drew a shaken breath and moistened his lips. The two stood looking at each other, each profoundly
at a loss as to what the other meant. Old Captain Renfrew collected himself first.

"That is all, Peter." He tried to lighten his tones. "I think I'll get to work. Let me see,
where do I keep my manuscript?"

Peter pointed mechanically at a drawer as he walked out at the library door. Once outside,
he ran to the front piazza, then to the front gate, and with a racing heart stood looking up
and down the sleepy thoroughfare. The street was quite empty.

                               CHAPTER XI

Old Captain Renfrew was a trustful, credulous soul, as, indeed, most gentleman who lead a bachelor's
life are. Such men lack that moral hardening and whetting which is obtained only amid the vicissitudes
of a home; they are not actively and continuously engaged in the employment and detection of
chicane; want of intimate association with a woman and some children begets in them a soft
and simple way of believing what is said to them. And their faith, easily raised, is just as
easily shattered. Their judgment lacks training.

Peter Siner's simple assertion to the old Captain that he was not going to marry Cissie Dildine
completely allayed the old gentleman's uneasiness. Even the further information that Peter
had had such a marriage under advisement, but had rejected it, did not put him on his guard.

From long non-intimacy with any human creature, the old legislator had forgotten that human
life is one long succession of doing the things one is not going to do; he had forgotten, if
he ever knew, that the human brain is primarily not a master, but a servant; its function is
not to direct, but to devise schemes and apologies to gratify impulses. It is the ways and
means committee to the great legislature of the body.

For several days after his fear that Peter Siner would marry Cissie Dildine old Captain Renfrew
was as felicitous as a lover newly reconciled to his mistress. He ambled between the manor
and the livery- stable with an abiding sense of well-being. When he approached his home in
the radiance of high noon and saw the roof of the old mansion lying a bluish gray in the shadows
of the trees, it filled his heart with joy to feel that it was not an old and empty house that
awaited his coming, but that in it worked a busy youth who would be glad to see him enter the gate.

The fear of some unattended and undignified death which had beset the old gentleman during
the last eight or ten years of his life vanished under Peter's presence. When he thought of
it at all now, he always previsioned himself being lifted in Peter's athletic arms and laid
properly on his big four-poster.

At times, when Peter sat working over the books in the library, the Captain felt a prodigious
urge to lay a hand on the young man's broad and capable shoulder. But he never did. Again,
the old lawyer would sit for minutes at a time watching his secretary's regular features as
the brown man pursued his work with a trained intentness. The old gentleman derived a deep
pleasure from such long scrutinies. It pleased him to imagine that, when he was young, he had
possessed the same vigor, the same masculinity, the same capacity for persistent labor. Indeed,
all old gentlemen are prone to choose the most personable and virile young man they can find
for themselves to have been like.

The two men had little to say to each other. Their thoughts beat to such different tempos that
any attempt at continued speech discovered unequal measures. As a matter of fact, in all comfortable
human conversation, words are used as mere buoys dropped here and there to mark well-known
channels of thought and feeling. Similarity of mental topography is necessary to mutual understanding.
Between any two generations the landscape is so changed as to be unrecognizable. Our fathers
are monarchists; our sons, bolsheviki.

Old Rose Hobbett was more of an age with the Captain, and these two talked very comfortably
as the old virago came and went with food at meal-time. For instance, the Captain always asked
his servant if she had fed his cat, and old Rose invariably would sulk and poke out her lips
and put off answering to the last possible moment of insolence, then would grumble out that
she was jes 'bout to feed the varmint, an' 't wuz funny nobody couldn't give a hard-wuckin'
colored woman breathin'-space to turn roun' in.

This reply was satisfactory to the Captain, because he knew what it meant,--that Rose had half
forgotten the cat, and had meant wholly to forget it, but since she had been snapped up, so
to speak, in the very act of forgetting, she would dole it out a piece or two of the meat that
she had meant to abscond with as soon as the dishes were done.

While Rose was fulminating, the old gentleman recalled his bent globe and decided the moment
had come for a lecture on that point. It always vaguely embarrassed the Captain to correct
Rose, and this increased his dignity. Now he cleared his throat in a certain way that brought
the old negress to attention, so well they knew each other.

"By the way, Rose, in the future I must request you to use extraordinary precautions in cleansing
and dusting articles of my household furniture, or, in case of damage, I shall be forced to
withhold an indemnification out of your pay."

Eight or ten years ago, when the Captain first repeated this formula to his servant, the roll
and swing of his rhetoric, and the last word, "pay," had built up lively hopes in Rose that
the old gentleman was announcing an increase in her regular wage of a dollar a week. Experience,
however, had long since corrected this faulty interpretation.

She came to a stand in the doorway, with her kinky gray head swung around, half puzzled, wholly
rebellious.

"Whut is I bruk now?"

"My globe."

The old woman turned about with more than usual innocence.

"Why, I ain't tech yo' globe!"

"I foresaw that," agreed the Captain, with patient irony, "but in the future don't touch it
more carefully. You bent its pivot the last time you refrained from handling it."

"But I tell you I ain't tech yo' globe!" cried the negress, with the anger of an illiterate
person who feels, but cannot understand, the satire leveled at her.

"I agree with you," said the Captain, glad the affair was over.

This verbal ducking into the cellar out of the path of her storm stirred up a tempest.

"But I tell you I ain't bruk it!"

"That's what I said."

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," she flared; "you says I ain't, but when you says I ain't, you means I is,
an' when you says I is, you means I ain't. Dat's de sort o' flapjack I's wuckin' fur!"

The woman flirted out of the dining-room, and the old gentleman drew another long breath, glad
it was over. He really had little reason to quarrel about the globe, bent or unbent; he never
used it. It sat in his study year in and year out, its dusty twinkle brightened at long intervals
by old Rose's spiteful rag.

The Captain ate on placidly. There had been a time when he was dubious about such scenes with
Rose. Once he felt it beneath his dignity as a Southern gentleman to allow any negro to speak
to him disrespectfully. He used to feel that he should discharge her instantly and during the
first years of their entente had done so a number of times. But he could get no one else who
suited him so well; her biscuits, her corn-light- bread, her lye-hominy, which only the old
darkies know how to make. And, to tell the truth, he missed the old creature herself, her understanding
of him and his ideas, her contemporaneity; and no one else would work for a dollar a week.

Presently in the course of his eating the old gentleman required another biscuit, and he wanted
a hot one. Three mildly heated disks lay on a plate before him, but they had been out of the
oven for five minutes and had been reduced to an unappetizing tepidity.

A little hand-bell sat beside the Captain's plate whose special use was to summon hot biscuits.
Now, the old lawyer looked at its worn handle speculatively. He was not at all sure Rose would
answer the bell. She would say she hadn't heard it. He felt faintly disgruntled at not foreseeing
this exigency and buttering two biscuits while they were hot, or even three.

He considered momentarily a project of going after a hot biscuit for himself, but eventually
put it by. South of the Mason-Dixon Line, self- help is half-scandal. At last, quite dubiously,
he did pick up the bell and gave it a gentle ring, so if old Rose chose not to hear it, she
probably wouldn't: thus he could believe her and not lose his temper and so widen an already
uncomfortable breach.

To the Captain's surprise, the old creature not only brought the biscuits, but she did it promptly.
No sooner had she served them, however, than the Captain saw she really had returned with a
new line of defense.

She mumbled it out as usual, so that her employer was forced to guess at a number of words:
"Dat nigger, Peter, mus' 'a' busted yo' gl--"

"No, he didn't."

"Mus' uv."

"No, he didn't. I asked him, and he said he didn't."

The old harridan stared, and her speech suddenly became clear-cut:

"Well, 'fo' Gawd, I says I didn't, too!"

At this point the Captain made an unintelligible sound and spread the butter on his hot biscuit.

"He's jes a nigger, lak I is," stated the cook, warmly.

The Captain buttered a second hot biscuit.

"We's jes two niggers."

The Captain hoped she would presently sputter herself out.

"Now look heah," cried the crone, growing angrier and angrier as the reaches of the insult
spread itself before her, "is you gwine to put one o' us niggers befo' de udder? Ca'se ef you
is, I mus' say, it's Kady- lock-a-do' wid me."

The Captain looked up satirically.

"What do you mean by Katie-lock-the-door with you?" he asked, though he had an uneasy feeling
that he knew.

"You know whut I means. I means I 's gwine to leab dis place."

"Now look here, Rose," protested the lawyer, with dignity, "Peter Siner occupies almost a fiduciary
relation to me."

The old negress stared with a slack jaw. "A relation o' yo's!"

The lawyer hesitated some seconds, looking at the hag. His high-bred old face was quite inscrutable,
but presently he said in a serious voice:

"Peter occupies a position of trust with me, Rose."

"Yeah," mumbled Rose; "I see you trus' him."

"One day he is going to do me a service, a very great service, Rose."

The hag continued looking at him with a stubborn expression.

"You know better than any one else, Rose, my dread of some--some unmannerly death--"

The old woman made a sound that might have meant anything.

"And Peter has promised to stay with me until--until the end."

The old negress considered this solemn speech, and then grunted out:

"Which en'?"

"Which end?" The Captain was irritated.

"Yeah; yo' en' or Peter's en'?"

"By every law of probability, Peter will outlive me."

"Yeah, but Peter 'll come to a en' wid you when he ma'ies dat stuck-up yellow fly-by-night,
Cissie Dildine."

"He's not going to marry her," said the Captain, comfortably.

"Huh!"

"Peter told me he didn't intend to marry Cissie Dildine."

"Shu! Then whut fur dey go roun' peepin' at each other lak a couple o' niggers roun' a haystack?"

The old lawyer was annoyed.

"Peeping where?"

"Why, right in front o' dis house, dat's wha; ever' day when dat hussy passes up to de Arkwrights',
wha she wucks. She pokes along an' walls her eyes roun' at dis house lak a calf wid de splivins."

"That going on now?"

"Ever' day."

A deep uneasiness went through the old man. He moistened his lips.

"But Peter said--"

"Good Gawd! Mars' Renfrew, whut diff'ence do it make whut Peter say? Ain't you foun' out yit
when a he-nigger an' a she-nigger gits to peepin' at each udder, whut dey says don't lib in
de same neighbo'hood wid whut dey does?"

This was delivered with such energy that it completely undermined the Captain's faith in Peter,
and the fact angered the old gentleman.

"That'll do, Rose; that'll do. That's all I need of you."

The old crone puffed up again at this unexpected flare, and went out of the room, plopping
her feet on floor and mumbling. Among these ungracious sounds the Captain caught, "Blin' ole
fool!" But there was no need becoming offended and demanding what she meant. Her explanation
would have been vague and unsatisfactory.

The verjuice which old Rose had sprinkled over Peter and Cissie by calling them "he-nigger"
and "she-nigger" somehow minimized them, animalized them in the old lawyer's imagination. Rose's
speech was charged with such contempt for her own color that it placed the mulatto and the
octoroon down with apes and rabbits.

The lawyer fought against his feeling, for the sake of his secretary, who had come to occupy
so wide a sector of his comfort and affection. Yet the old virago evidently spoke from a broad
background of experience. She was at least half convincing. While the Captain repelled her
charge against his quiet, hard-working brown helper, he admitted it against Cissie Dildine,
whom he did not know. She was an animal, a female centaur, a wanton and a strumpet, as all
negresses are wantons and strumpets. All white men in the South firmly believe that. They believe
it with a peculiar detestation; and since they used these persons very profitably for a hundred
and fifty years as breeding animals, one might say they believe it a trifle ungratefully.

                              CHAPTER XII

The semi-daily passings of Cissie Dildine before the old Renfrew manor on her way to and from
the Arkwright home upset Peter Siner's working schedule to an extraordinary degree.

After watching for two or three days, Peter worked out a sort of time- table for Cissie. She
passed up early in the morning, at about five forty-five. He could barely see her then, and
somehow she looked very pathetic hurrying along in the cold, dim light of dawn. After she had
cooked the Arkwright breakfast, swept the Arkwright floors, dusted the Arkwright furniture,
she passed back toward Niggertown, somewhere near nine. About eleven o'clock she went up to
cook dinner, and returned at one or two in the afternoon. Occasionally, she made a third trip
to get supper.

This was as exactly as Peter could predict the arrivals and departures of Cissie, and the schedule
involved a large margin of uncertainty. For half an hour before Cissie passed she kept Peter
watching the clock at nervous intervals, wondering if, after all, she had gone by unobserved.
Invariably, he would move his work to a window where he had the whole street under his observation.
Then he would proceed with his indexing with more and more difficulty. At first the paragraphs
would lose connection, and he would be forced to reread them. Then the sentences would drop
apart. Immediately before the girl arrived, the words themselves grew anarchic. They stared
him in the eye, each a complete entity, self-sufficient, individual, bearing no relation to
any other words except that of mere proximity,--like a spelling lesson. Only by an effort could
Peter enforce a temporary cohesion among them, and they dropped apart at the first slackening
of the strain.

Strange to say, when the octoroon actually was walking past, Peter did not look at her steadily.
On the contrary, he would think to himself: "How little I care for such a woman! My ideal is
thus and so--" He would look at her until she glanced across the yard and saw him sitting in
the window; then immediately he bent over his books, as if his stray glance had lighted on
her purely by chance, as if she were nothing more to him than a passing dray or a fluttering
leaf. Indeed, he told himself during these crises that he had no earthly interest in the girl,
that she was not the sort of woman he desired,--while his heart hammered, and the lines of
print under his eyes blurred into gray streaks across the page.

One afternoon Peter saw Cissie pass his gate, hurrying, almost running, apparently in flight
from something. It sent a queer shock through him. He stared after her, then up and down the
street. He wondered why she ran. Even when he went to bed that night the strangeness of Cissie's
flight kept him awake inventing explanations.

                    *       *       *       *       *

None of Peter's preoccupations was lost upon Captain Renfrew. None is so suspicious as a credulous
man aroused. After Rose had struck her blow at the secretary, the old gentleman noted all of
Peter's permutations and misconstrued a dozen quite innocent actions on Peter's part into signs
of bad faith.

By a little observation he identified Cissie Dildine and what he saw did not reëstablish his
peace of mind. On the contrary, it became more than probable that the cream-colored negress
would lure Peter away. This possibility aroused in the old lawyer a grim, voiceless rancor
against Cissie. In his thoughts he linked the girl with every manner of evil design against
Peter. She was an adventuress, a Cyprian, a seductress attempting to snare Peter in the brazen
web of her comeliness. For to the old gentleman's eyes there was an abiding impudicity about
Cissie's very charms. The passionate repose of her face was immodest; the possession of a torso
such as a sculptor might have carved was brazen. The girl was shamefully well appointed.

One morning as Captain Renfrew came home from town, he chanced to walk just behind the octoroon,
and quite unconsciously the girl delivered an added fillip to the old gentleman's uneasiness.

Just before Cissie passed in front of the Renfrew manor, womanlike, she paused to make some
slight improvements in her appearance before walking under the eyes of her lover. She adjusted
some strands of hair which had blown loose in the autumn wind, looked at herself in a purse
mirror, retouched her nose with her greenish powder; then she picked a little sprig of sumac
leaves that burned in the corner of a lawn and pinned its flame on the unashamed loveliness
of her bosom.

This negro instinct for brilliant color is the theme of many jests in the South, but it is
entirely justified esthetically, although the constant sarcasm of the whites has checked its
satisfaction, if it has not corrupted the taste.

The bit of sumac out of which the octoroon had improvised a nosegay lighted up her skin and
eyes, and created an ensemble as closely resembling a Henri painting as anything the streets
of Hooker's Bend were destined to see.

But old Captain Renfrew was far from appreciating any such bravura in scarlet and gold. At
first he put it down to mere niggerish taste, and his dislike for the girl edged his stricture;
then, on second thought, the oddness of sumac for a nosegay caught his attention. Nobody used
sumac for a buttonhole. He had never heard of any woman, white or black, using sumac for a
bouquet. Why should this Cissie Dildine trig herself out in sumac?

The Captain's suspicions came to a point like a setter. He began sniffing about for Cissie's
motives in choosing so queer an ornament. He wondered if it had anything to do with Peter Siner.

All his life, Captain Renfrew's brain had been deliberate. He moved mentally, as he did physically,
with dignity. To tell the truth, the Captain's thoughts had a way of absolutely stopping now
and then, and for a space he would view the world as a simple collection of colored surfaces
without depth or meaning. During these intervals, by a sort of irony of the gods the old gentleman's
face wore a look of philosophic concentration, so that his mental hiatuses had given him a
reputation for profundity, which was county wide. It had been this, years before, that had
carried him by a powerful majority into the Tennessee legislature. The voters agreed, almost
to a man, that they preferred depth to a shallow facility. The rival candidate had been shallow
and facile. The polls returned the Captain, and the young gentleman--for the Captain was a
young gentleman in those days--was launched on a typical politician's career. But some Republican
member from east Tennessee had impugned the rising statesman's honor with some sort of improper
liaison. In those days there seemed to be proper and improper liaisons. There had been a duel
on the banks of the Cumberland River in which the Captain succeeded in wounding his traducer
in the arm, and was thus vindicated by the gods. But the incident ended a career that might
very well have wound up in the governor's chair, or even in the United States Senate, considering
how very deliberate the Captain was mentally.

To-day, as the Captain walked up the street following Cissie Dildine, one of these vacant moods
fell upon him and it was not until they had reached his own gate that it suddenly occurred
to the old gentleman just what Cissie's sumac did mean. It was a signal to Peter. The simplicity
of the solution stirred the old man. Its meaning was equally easy to fathom. When a woman signals
any man it conveys consent. Denials receive no signals; they are inferred. In this particular
case Captain Renfrew found every reason to believe that this flaring bit of sumac was the prelude
to an elopement.

In the window of his library the Captain saw his secretary staring at his cards and books with
an intentness plainly assumed. Peter's fixed stare had none of those small movements of the
head that mark genuine intellectual labor. So Peter was posing, pretending he did not see the
girl, to disarm his employer's suspicions,--pretending not to see a girl rigged out like that!

Such duplicity sent a queer spasm of anguish through the old lawyer. Peter's action held half
a dozen barbs for the Captain. A fellow-alumnus of Harvard staying in his house merely for
his wage and keep! Peter bore not the slightest affection for him; the mulatto lacked even
the chivalry to notify the Captain of his intentions, because he knew the Captain objected.
And yet all these self-centered objections were nothing to what old Captain Renfrew felt for
Peter's own sake. For Peter to marry a nigger and a strumpet, for him to elope with a wanton
and a thief! For such an upstanding lad, the very picture of his own virility and mental alertness
when he was of that age, for such a boy to fling himself away, to drop out of existence--oh,
it was loathly!

The old man entered the library feeling sick. It was empty. Peter had gone to his room, according
to his custom. But in this particular instance it seemed to Captain Renfrew his withdrawal
was flavored with a tang of guilt. If he were innocent, why should not such a big, strong youth
have stayed and helped an old gentleman off with his overcoat?

The old Captain blew out a windy breath as he helped himself out of his coat in the empty library.
The bent globe still leaned against the window-seat. The room had never looked so somber or
so lonely.

At dinner the old man ate so little that Rose Hobbett ceased her monotonous grumbling to ask
if he felt well. He said he had had a hard day, a difficult day. He felt so weak and thin that
he foretold the gray days when he could no longer creep to the village and sit with his cronies
at the livery-stable, when he would be house-fast, through endless days, creeping from room
to room like a weak old rat in a huge empty house, finally to die in some disgusting fashion.
And Now Peter was going to leave him, was going to throw himself away on a lascivious wench.
A faint moisture dampened the old man's withered eyes. He drank an extra thimbleful of whisky
to try to hearten himself. Its bouquet filled the time-worn stateliness of the dining-room.

                    *       *       *       *       *

During the weeks of Peter's stay at the manor it had grown to be the Captain's habit really
to write for two or three hours in the afternoon, and his pile of manuscript had thickened
under his application.

The old man was writing a book called "Reminiscences of Peace and War." His book would form
another unit of that extraordinary crop of personal reminiscences of the old South which flooded
the presses of America during the decade of 1908-18. During just that decade it seemed as if
the aged men and women of the South suddenly realized that the generation who had lived through
the picturesqueness and stateliness of the old slave régime was almost gone, and over their
hearts swept a common impulse to commemorate, in the sunset of their own lives, its fading
splendor and its vanished deeds.

On this particular afternoon the Captain settled himself to work, but his reminiscences did
not get on. He pinched a bit of floss from the nib of his pen and tried to swing into the period
of which he was writing. He read over a few pages of his copy as mental priming, but his thoughts
remained flat and dull. Indeed, his whole life, as he reviewed it in the waning afternoon,
appeared empty and futile. It seemed hardly worth while to go on.

The Captain had come to that point in his memoirs where the Republican representative from
Knox County had set going the petard which had wrecked his political career.

From the very beginnings of his labors the old lawyer had looked forward to writing just this
period of his life. He meant to clear up his name once for all. He meant to use invective,
argument, testimony and a powerful emotional appeal, such as a country lawyer invariably attempts
with a jury.

But now that he had arrived at the actual composition of his defense, he sat biting his penholder,
with all the arguments he meant to advance slipped from his mind. He could not recall the points
of the proof. He could not recall them with Peter Siner moving restlessly about the room, glancing
through the window, unsettled, nervous, on the verge of eloping with a negress.

His secretary's tragedy smote the old man. The necessity of doing something for Peter put his
thoughts to rout. A wild idea occurred to the Captain that if he should write the exact truth,
perhaps his memoirs might serve Peter as a signal against a futile, empty journey.

But the thought no sooner appeared than it was rejected. In the Anglo- Saxon, especially the
Anglo-Saxon of the Southern United States, abides no such Gallic frankness as moved a Jean-Jacques.
Southern memoirs always sound like the conversation between two maiden ladies,--nothing intimate,
simply a few general remarks designed to show from what nice families they came.

So the Captain wrote nothing. During all the afternoon he sat at his desk with a leaden heart,
watching Peter move about the room. The old man maintained more or less the posture of writing,
but his thoughts were occupied in pitying himself and pitying Peter. Half a dozen times he
looked up, on the verge of making some plea, some remonstrance, against the madness of this
brown man. But the sight of Peter sitting in the window-seat staring out into the street silenced
him. He was a weak old man, and Peter's nerves were strung with the desire of youth.

At last the two men heard old Rose clashing in the kitchen. A few minutes later the secretary
excused himself from the library, to go to his own room. As Peter was about to pass through
the door, the Captain was suddenly galvanized into action by the thought that this perhaps
was the last time he would ever see him. He got up from his chair and called shakenly to Peter.
The negro paused. The Captain moistened his lips and controlled his voice.

"I want to have a word with you, Peter, about a--a little matter. I-- I've mentioned it before."

"Yes, sir." The negro's tone and attitude reminded the Captain that the supper gong would soon
sound and they would best separate at once.

"It--it's about Cissie Dildine," the old lawyer hurried on.

Peter nodded slightly.

"Yes, you mentioned that before."

The old man lifted a thin hand as if to touch Peter's arm, but he did not. A sort of desperation
seized him.

"But listen, Peter, you don't want to do--what's in your mind!"

"What is in my mind, Captain?"

"I mean marry a negress. You don't want to marry a negress!"

The brown man stared, utterly blank.

"Not marry a negress!"

"No, Peter; no," quavered the old man. "For yourself it may make no difference, but your children--think
of your children, your son growing up under a brown veil! You can't tear it off. God himself
can't tear it off! You can never reach him through it. Your children, your children's children,
a terrible procession that stretches out and out, marching under a black shroud, unknowing,
unknown! All you can see are their sad forms beneath the shroud, marching away--marching away.
God knows where! And yet it's your own flesh and blood!"

Suddenly the old lawyer's face broke into the hard, tearless contortions of the aged. His terrible
emotion communicated itself to the sensitive brown man.

"But, Captain, I myself am a negro. Whom should I marry?"

"No one; no one! Let your seed wither in your loins! It's better to do that; it's better--"
At that moment the clashing of the supper gong fell on the old man's naked nerves. He straightened
up by some reflex mechanism, turned away from what he thought was his last interview with his
secretary, and proceeded down the piazza into the great empty dining-room.

                              CHAPTER XIII

With overwrought nerves Peter Siner entered his room. At five o'clock that afternoon he had
seen Cissie Dildine go up the street to the Arkwright home to cook one of those occasional
suppers. He had been watching for her return, and in the midst of it the Captain's extraordinary
outburst had stirred him up.

Once in his room, the negro placed the broken Hepplewhite in such a position that he could
rake the street with a glance. Then he tried to compose himself and await the coming of his
supper and the passage of Cissie. There was something almost pathetic in Peter's endless watching,
all for a mere glimpse or two of the girl in yellow. He himself had no idea how his nerves
and thoughts had woven themselves around the young woman. He had no idea what a passion this
continual doling out of glimpses had begotten. He did not dream how much he was, as folk naïvely
put it, in love with her.

His love was strong enough to make him forget for a while the old lawyer's outbreak. However,
as the dusk thickened in the shrubbery and under the trees, certain of the old gentleman's
phrases revisited the mulatto's mind: "A terrible procession ... marching under a black shroud....
Your children, your children's children, a terrible procession,... marching away, God knows
where.... And yet--it's your own flesh and blood!" They were terrific sentences, as if the
old man had been trying to tear from his vision some sport of nature, some deformity. As the
implications spread before Peter, he became more and more astonished at its content. Even to
Captain Renfrew black men were dehumanized,--shrouded, untouchable creatures.

It delivered to Peter a slow but a profound shock. He glanced about at the faded magnificence
of the room with a queer feeling that he had been introduced into it under a sort of misrepresentation.
He had taken up his abode with the Captain, at least on the basis of belonging to the human
family, but this passionate outbreak, this puzzling explosion, cut that ground from under his feet.

The more Peter thought about it, the stranger grew his sensation. Not even to be classed as
a human being by this old gentleman who in a weak, helpless fashion had crept somewhat into
Peter's affections,--not to be considered a man! The mulatto drew a long, troubled breath,
and by the mere mechanics of his desire kept staring through the gloom for Cissie.

Peter Siner had known all along that the unread whites of Hooker's Bend --and that included
nearly every white person in the village--considered black men as simple animals; but he had
supposed that the more thoughtful men, of whom Captain Renfrew was a type, at least admitted
the Afro- American to the common brotherhood of humanity. But they did not.

As Peter sat staring into the darkness the whole effect of the dehumanizing of the black folk
of the South began to unfold itself before his imagination. It explained to him the tragedies
of his race, their sufferings at the hand of mob violence; the casualness, even the levity
with which black men were murdered: the chronic dishonesty with which negroes were treated:
the constant enactment of adverse legislation against them; the cynical use of negro women.
They were all vermin, animals; they were one with the sheep and the swine; a little nearer
the human in form, perhaps, and, oddly enough, one that could be bred to a human being, as
testified a multitude of brown and yellow and cream-colored folk, but all marching away, as
the Captain had so passionately said, marching away, their forms hidden from human intercourse
under a shroud of black, an endless procession marching away, God knew whither! And yet they
were the South's own flesh and blood.

The horror of such a complex swelled in Peter's mind to monstrous proportions. As night thickened
at his window, the negro sat dazed and wondering at the mightiness of his vision. His thoughts
went groping, trying to solve some obscure problem it posed. He thought of the Arkwright boy;
he thought of the white men smiling as his mother's funeral went past the livery-stable; he
thought of Captain Renfrew's manuscript that he was transcribing. Through all the old man's
memoirs ran a certain lack of sincerity. Peter always felt amid his labors that the old Captain
was making an attorney's plea rather than a candid exposition. At this point in his thoughts
there gradually limned itself in the brown man's mind the answer to that enigma which he almost
had unraveled on the day he first saw Cissie Dildine pass his window. With it came the answer
to the puzzle contained in the old Captain's library. The library was not an ordinary compilation
of the world's thought; it, too, was an attorney's special pleading against the equality of
man. Any book or theory that upheld the equality of man was carefully excluded from the shelves.
Darwin's great hypothesis, and every development springing from it, had been banned, because
the moment that a theory was propounded of the great biologic relationship of all flesh, from
worms to vertebrates, there instantly followed a corollary of the brotherhood of man.

What Christ did for theology, Darwin did for biology,--he democratized it. The One descended
to man's brotherhood from the Trinity; the other climbed up to it from the worms.

The old Captain's library lacked sincerity. Southern orthodoxy, which persists in pouring its
religious thought into the outworn molds of special creation, lacks sincerity. Scarcely a department
of Southern life escapes this fundamental attitude of special pleader and disingenuousness.
It explains the Southern fondness for legal subtleties. All attempts at Southern poetry, belles-lettres,
painting, novels, bear the stamp of the special plea, of authors whose exposition is careful.

Peter perceived what every one must perceive, that when letters turn into a sort of glorified
prospectus of a country, all value as literature ceases. The very breath of art and interpretation
is an eager and sincere searching of the heart. This sincerity the South lacks. Her single
talent will always be forensic, because she is a lawyer with a cause to defend. And such is
the curse that arises from lynchings and venery and extortions and dehumanizings,--sterility;
a dumbness of soul.

Peter Siner's thoughts lifted him with the tremendous buoyancy of inspiration. He swung out
of his chair and began tramping his dark room. The skin of his scalp tickled as if a ghost
had risen before him. The nerves in his thighs and back vibrated. He felt light, and tingled
with energy.

Unaware of what he was doing, he set about lighting the gasolene-lamp. He worked with nervous
quickness, as if he were in a great hurry. Presently a brilliant light flooded the room. It
turned the gray illumination of the windows to blackness.

Joy enveloped Peter. His own future developed under his eyes with the same swift clairvoyance
that marked his vision of the ills of his country. He saw himself remedying those ills. He
would go about showing white men and black men the simple truth, the spiritual necessity for
justice and fairness. It was not a question of social equality; it was a question of clearing
a road for the development of Southern life. He would show white men that to weaken, to debase,
to dehumanize the negro, inflicted a more terrible wound on the South than would any strength
the black man might develop. He would show black men that to hate the whites, constantly to
suspect, constantly to pilfer from them, only riveted heavier shackles on their limbs.

It was all so clear and so simple! The white South must humanize the black not for the sake
of the negro, but for the sake of itself. No one could resist logic so fundamental.

Peter's heart sang with the solemn joy of a man who had found his work. All through his youth
he had felt blind yearnings and gropings for he knew not what. It had driven him with endless
travail out of Niggertown, through school and college, and back to Niggertown,--this untiring
Hound of Heaven. But at last he had reached his work. He, Peter Siner, a mulatto, with the
blood of both white and black in his veins, would come as an evangel of liberty to both white
and black. The brown man's eyes grew moist from Joy. His body seemed possessed of tremendous
energy.

As he paced his room there came into the glory of Peter's thoughts the memory of the Arkwright
boy as he sat in the cedar glade brooding on the fallen needles Peter recalled the hobbledehoy's
disjointed words as he wrestled with the moral and physical problems of adolescence. Peter
recalled his impulse to sit down by young Sam Arkwright, and, as best he might, give him some
clue to the critical and feverish period through which he was passing.

He had not done so, but Peter remembered the instance down to the very desperation in the face
of the brooding youngster. And it seemed to Peter that this rejected impulse had been a sign
that he was destined to be an evangel to the whites as well as to the blacks.

The joy of Peter's mission bore him aloft on vast wings. His room seemed to fall away from
him, and he was moving about his country, releasing the two races from their bonds of suspicion
and cruelty.

                    *       *       *       *       *

Slowly the old manor formed about Peter again, and he perceived that a tapping on the door
had summoned him back. He walked to the door with his heart full of kindness for old Rose.
She was bringing him his supper. He felt as if he could take the old woman in his arms, and
out of the mere hugeness of his love sweeten her bitter life. The mulatto opened the door as
eagerly as if he were admitting some long-desired friend; but when the shutter swung back,
the old crone and her salver were not there. All he could discern in the darkness were the
white pillars marking the night into panels. There was no light in the outer kitchen. The whole
manor was silent.

As he stood listening, the knocking was repeated, this time more faintly. He fixed the sound
at the window. He closed the door, walked across the brilliant room, and opened the shutters.

For several moments he saw nothing more than the tall quadrangle of blackness which the window
framed; then a star or two pierced it; then something moved. He saw a woman's figure standing
close to the casement, and out of the darkness Cissie Dildine's voice asked in its careful English:

"Peter, may I come in?"

                              CHAPTER XIV

For a full thirty seconds Peter Siner stared at the girl at the window before, even with her
prompting, he thought of the amenity of asking her to come inside. As a further delayed courtesy,
he drew the Heppelwhite chair toward her.

Cissie's face looked bloodless in the blanched light of the gasolene- lamp. She forced a faint,
doubtful smile.

"You don't seem very glad to see me, Peter."

"I am," he assured her, mechanically, but he really felt nothing but astonishment and dismay.
They filled his voice. He was afraid some one would see Cissie in his room. His thoughts went
flitting about the premises, calculating the positions of the various trees and shrubs in relation
to the windows, trying to determine whether, and just where, in his brilliantly lighted chamber
the girl could be seen from the street.

The octoroon made no further comment on his confusion. Her eyes wandered from him over the
stately furniture and up to the stuccoed ceiling.

"They told me you lived in a wonderful room," she remarked absently.

"Yes, it's very nice," agreed Peter in the same tone, wondering what might be the object of
her hazardous visit. A flicker of suspicion suggested that she was trying to compromise him
out of revenge for his renouncement of her, but the next instant he rejected this.

The girl accepted the chair Peter offered and continued to look about.

"I hope you don't mind my staring, Peter," she said.

"I stared when I first came here to stay," assisted Peter, who was getting a little more like
himself, even if a little uneasier at the consequences of this visit.

"Is that a highboy?" She nodded nervously at the piece of furniture. "I've seen pictures of them."

"Uh huh. Revolutionary, I believe. The night wind is a little raw." He moved across the room
and closed the jalousies, and thus cut off the night wind and also the west view from the street.
He glanced at the heavy curtains parted over his front windows, with a keen desire to swing
them together. Some fragment of his mind continued the surface conversation with Cissie.

"Is it post-Revolutionary or pre-Revolutionary?" she asked with a preoccupied air.

"Post, I believe. No, pre. I always meant to examine closely."

"To have such things would almost teach one history," Cissie said.

"Yeah; very nice." Peter had decided that the girl was in direct line with the left front window
and an opening between the trees to the street.

The girl's eyes followed his.

"Are those curtains velour, Peter?"

"I--I believe so," agreed the man, unhappily.

"I--I wonder how they look spread."

Peter seized on this flimsy excuse with a wave of relief and thankfulness to Cissie. He had
to restrain himself as he strode across the room and swung together the two halves of the somber
curtains in order to preserve an appearance of an exhibit. His fingers were so nervous that
he bungled a moment at the heavy cords, but finally the two draperies swung together, loosing
a little cloud of dust. He drew together a small aperture where the hangings stood apart, and
then turned away in sincere relief.

Cissie's own interest in historic furniture and textiles came to an abrupt conclusion. She
gave a deep sigh and settled back into her chair. She sat looking at Peter seriously, almost
distressfully, as he came toward her.

With the closing of the curtains and the establishment of a real privacy Peter became aware
once again of the sweetness and charm Cissie always held for him. He still wondered what had
brought her, but he was no longer uneasy.

"Perhaps I'd better build a fire," he suggested, quite willing now to make her visit seem not
unusual.

"Oh, no,"--she spoke with polite haste,--"I'm just going to stay a minute. I don't know what
you'll think of me." She looked intently at him.

"I think it lovely of you to come." He was disgusted with the triteness of this remark, but
he could think of nothing else.

"I don't know," demurred the octoroon, with her faint doubtful smile. "Persons don't welcome
beggars very cordially."

"If all beggars were so charming--" Apparently he couldn't escape banalities.

But Cissie interrupted whatever speech he meant to make, with a return of her almost painful
seriousness.

"I really came to ask you to help me, Peter."

"Then your need has brought me a pleasure, at least." Some impulse kept the secretary making
those foolish complimentary speeches which keep a conversation empty and insincere.

"Oh, Peter, I didn't come here for you to talk like that! Will you do what I want?"

"What do you want, Cissie?" he asked, sobered by her voice and manner.

"I want you to help me, Peter."

"All right, I will." He spaced his words with his speculations about the nature of her request.
"What do you want me to do?"

"I want you to help me go away."

Peter looked at her in surprise. He hardly knew what he had been expecting, but it was not this.

Some repressed emotion crept into the girl's voice.

"Peter, I--I can't stay here in Hooker's Bend any longer. I want to go away. I--I've got to
go away."

Peter stood regarding her curiously and at the same time sympathetically.

"Where do you want to go, Cissie?"

The girl drew a long breath; her bosom lifted and dropped abruptly.

"I don't know; that was one of the things I wanted to ask you about."

"You don't know where you want to go?" He smiled faintly. "How do you know you want to go at all?"

"Oh, Peter, all I know is I must leave Hooker's Bend!" She gave a little shiver. "I'm tired
of it, sick of it--sick." She exhaled a breath, as if she were indeed physically ill. Her face
suggested it; her eyes were shadowed. "Some Northern city, I suppose," she added.

"And you want me to help you?" inquired Peter, puzzled.

She nodded silently, with a woman's instinct to make a man guess the favor she is seeking.

Then it occurred to Peter just what sort of assistance the girl did want. It gave him a faint
shock that a girl could come to a man to beg or to borrow money. It was a white man's shock,
a notion he had picked up in Boston, because it happens frequently among village negroes, and
among them it holds as little significance as children begging one another for bites of apples.

Peter thought over his bank balance, then started toward a chest of drawers where he kept his
checkbook.

"Cissie, if I can he of any service to you in a substantial way, I'll be more than glad to--"

She put out a hand and stopped him; then talked on in justification of her determination to
go away.

"I just can't endure it any longer, Peter." She shuddered again. "I can't stand Niggertown,
or this side of town--any of it. They--they have no feeling for a colored girl, Peter, not--not
a speck!" She rave a gasp, and after a moment plunged on into her wrongs: "When--when one of
us even walks past on the street, they--they whistle and say a-all kinds of things out loud,
j-just as if w-we weren't there at all. Th- they don't c-care; we're just n-nigger w-women."
Cissie suddenly began sobbing with a faint catching noise, her full bosom shaken by the spasms;
her tears slowly welling over. She drew out a handkerchief with a part of its lace edge gone,
and wiped her eyes and cheeks, holding the bit of cambric in a ball in her palm, like a negress,
instead of in her fingers, like a white woman, as she had been taught. Then she drew a deep
breath, swallowed, and became more composed.

Peter stood looking in helpless anger at this representative of all women of his race.

"Cissie, that's street-corner scum--the dirty sewage--"

"They make you feel naked," went on Cissie in the monotone that succeeds a fit of weeping,
"and ashamed--and afraid." She blinked her eyes to press out the undue moisture, and looked
at Peter as if asking what else she could do about it than to go away from the village.

"Will it be any better away from here?" suggested Peter, doubtfully.

Cissie shook her head.

"I--I suppose not, if--if I go alone."

"I shouldn't think so," agreed Peter, somberly. He started to hearten her by saying white women
also underwent such trials, if that would be a consolation; but he knew very well that a white
woman's hardships were as nothing compared to those of a colored woman who was endowed with
any grace whatever.

"And besides, Cissie," went on Peter, who somehow found himself arguing against the notion
of her going, "I hardly see how a decent colored woman gets around at all. Colored boarding-houses
are wretched places. I ate and slept in one or two, coming home. Rotten." The possibility of
Cissie finding herself in such a place moved Peter.

The girl nodded submissively to his judgment, and said in a queer voice: "That's why I--I didn't
want to travel alone, Peter."

"No, it's a bad idea--" and then Peter perceived that a queer quality was creeping into the
tête-à-tête.

She returned his look unsteadily, but with a curious persistence.

"I--I d-don't want to travel a-alone, Peter," she gasped.

Her look, her voice suddenly brought home to the an the amazing connotation of her words. He
stared at her, felt his face grow warm with a sharp, peculiar embarrassment. He hardly knew
what to say or do before her intent and piteous eyes.

"You--you mean you want m-me--to go with you, Cissie?" he stammered.

The girl suddenly began trembling, now that her last reserve of indirection had been torn away.

"Listen, Peter," she began breathlessly. "I'm not the sort of woman you think. If I hadn't
accused myself, we'd be married now. I--I wanted you more than anything in the world, Peter,
but I did tell you. Surely, surely, Peter, that shows I am a good woman--th-the real I. Dear,
dear Peter, there is a difference between a woman and her acts. Peter, you're the first man
in all my life, in a-all my life who ever came to me k- kindly and gently; so I had to l-love
you and t-tell you, Peter."

The girl's wavering voice broke down completely; her face twisted with grief. She groped for
her chair, sat down, buried her face in her arms on the table, and broke into a chattering
outbreak of sobs that sounded like some sort of laughter.

Her shoulders shook; the light gleamed on her soft, black Caucasian hair. There was a little
rent in one of the seams in her cheap jacket, at one of the curves where her side molded into
her shoulder. The customer made garment had found Cissie's body of richer mold than it had
been designed to shield. And yet in Peter's distress and tenderness and embarrassment, this
little rent held his attention and somehow misprized the wearer.

It seemed symbolic in the searching white light. He could see the very break in the thread
and the widened stitches at the ends of the rip. Her coat had given way because she was modeled
more nearly like the Venus de Milo than the run of womankind. He felt the little irony of the
thing, and yet was quite unable to resist the comparison.

And then, too, she had referred again to her sin of peculation. A woman enjoys confessions
from a man. A man's sins are mostly vague, indefinite things to a woman, a shadowy background
which brings out the man in a beautiful attitude of repentance; but when a woman confesses,
the man sees all her past as a close-up with full lighting. He has an intimate acquaintance
with just what she's talking about, and the woman herself grows shadowy and unreal. Men have
too many blots not to demand whiteness in women. By striking some such average, nature keeps
the race a going moral concern.

So Peter, as he stood looking down on the woman who was asking him to marry her, was filled
with as unhappy and as impersonal a tenderness as a born brother. He recalled the thoughts
which had come to him when he saw Cissie passing his window. She was not the sort of woman
he wanted to marry; she was not his ideal. He cast about in his head for some gentle way of
putting her off, so that he would not hurt her any further, if such an easement were possible.

As he stood thinking, he found not a pretext, but a reality. He stooped over, and put a hand
lightly on each of her arms.

"Cissie," he said in a serious, even voice, "if I should ever marry any one, it would be you."

The girl paused in her sobbing at his even, passionless voice.

"Then you--you won't?" she whispered in her arms.

"I can't, Cissie." Now that he was saying it, he uttered the words very evenly and smoothly.
"I can't, dear Cissie, because a great work has just come into my life." He paused, expecting
her to ask some question, but she lay silent, with her face in her arms, evidently listening.

"Cissie, I think, in fact I know, I can demonstrate to all the South, both white and black,
the need of a better and more sincere understanding between our two races."

Peter did not feel the absurdity of such a speech in such a place. He patted her arm, but there
was something in the warmth of her flesh that disturbed his austerity and caused him to lift
his hand to the more impersonal axis of her shoulder. He proceeded to develop his idea.

"Cissie, just a moment ago you were complaining of the insults you meet everywhere. I believe
if I can spread my ideas, Cissie, that even a pretty colored girl like you may walk the streets
without being subjected to obscenity on every corner." His tone unconsciously patronized Cissie's
prettiness with the patronage of the male for the less significant thing, as though her ripeness
for love and passion and children were, after all, not comparable with what he, a male, could
do in the way of significantly molding life.

Cissie lifted her head and dried her eyes.

"So you aren't going to marry me, Peter?" Woman-like, now that she was well into the subject,
she was far less embarrassed than Peter. She had had her cry.

"Why--er--considering this work, Cissie--"

"Aren't you going to marry anybody, Peter?"

The artist in Peter, the thing the girl loved in him, caught again that Messianic vision of
himself.

"Why, no, Cissie," he said, with a return of his inspiration of an hour ago; "I'll be going
here and there all over the South preaching this gospel of kindliness and tolerance, of forgiveness
of the faults of others." Cissie looked at him with a queer expression. "I'll show the white
people that they should treat the negro with consideration not for the sake of the negro, but
for the sake of themselves. It's so simple, Cissie, it's so logical and clear--"

The girl shook her head sadly.

"And you don't want me to go with you, Peter?"

"Why, n-no, Cissie; a girl like you couldn't go. Perhaps I'll be misunderstood in places, perhaps
I may have to leave a town hurriedly, or be swung over the walls, like Paul, in a basket."
He attempted to treat it lightly.

But the girl looked at him with a horror dawning in her melancholy face.

"Peter, do you really mean that?" she whispered.

"Why, truly. You don't imagine--"

The octoroon opened her dark eyes until she might have been some weird.

"Oh, Peter, please, please put such a mad idea away from you! Peter, you've been living here
alone in this old house until you don't see things clearly. Dear Peter, don't you know? You
can't go out and talk like that to white folks and--and not have some terrible thing happen
to you! Oh, Peter, if you would only marry me, it would cure you of such wildness!" Involuntarily
she got up, holding out her arms to him, offering herself to his needs, with her frightened
eyes fixed on his.

It made him exquisitely uncomfortable again. He made a little sound designed to comfort and
reassure her. He would do very well. He was something of a diplomat in his way. He had got
along with the boys in Harvard very well indeed. In fact, he was rather a man of the world.
No need to worry about him, though it was awfully sweet of her.

Cissie picked up her handkerchief with its torn edge, which she had laid on the table. Evidently
she was about to go.

"I surely don't know what will become of me," she said, looking at it.

In a reversal of feeling Peter did not want her to go away quite then. He cast about for some
excuse to detain her a moment longer.

"Now, Cissie," he began, "if you are really going to leave Hooker's Bend--"

"I'm not going," she said, with a long exhalation. "I--" she swallowed-- "I just thought that
up to--ask you to--to--You see," she explained, a little breathless, "I thought you still loved
me and had forgiven me by the way you watched for me every day at the window."

This speech touched Peter more keenly than any of the little drama the girl had invented. It
hit him so shrewdly he could think of nothing more to say.

Cissie moved toward the window and undid the latch.

"Good night, Peter." She paused a moment, with her hand on the catch. "Peter," she said, "I'd
almost rather see you marry some other girl than try so terrible a thing."

The big, full-blooded athlete smiled faintly.

"You seem perfectly sure marriage would cure me of my mission."

Cissie's face reddened faintly.

"I think so," she said briefly. "Good night," and she disappeared in the dark space she had
opened, and closed the jalousies softly after her.

                               CHAPTER XV

Cissie Dildine's conviction that marriage would cure Peter of his mission persisted in the
mulatto's mind long after the glamour of the girl had faded and his room had regained the bleak
emptiness of a bachelor's bedchamber.

Cissie had been so brief and positive in her statement that Peter, who had not thought on the
point at all, grew more than half convinced she was right.

Now that he pondered over it, it seemed there was a difference between the outlook of a bachelor
and that of a married man. The former considered humanity as a balloonist surveys a throng,--immediately
and without perspective,--but the latter always sees mankind through the frame of his family.
A single man tends naturally to philosophy and reform; a married man to administration and
statesmanship. There have been no great unmarried statesmen; there have been no great married
philosophers or reformers.

Now that Cissie had pointed out this universal rule, Peter saw it very clearly. And Peter suspected
that beneath this rough classification, and conditioning it, lay a plexus of obscure mental
and physical reactions set up by the relations between husband and wife. It might very well
be there was a difference between the actual cerebral and nervous structure of a married man
and that of a single man.

At any rate, after these reflections, Peter now felt sure that marriage would cure him of his
mission; but how had Cissie known it? How had she struck out so involved a theory, one might
say, in the toss of a head? The more Peter thought it over the more extraordinary it became.
It was another one of those explosive ideas which Cissie, apparently, had the faculty of creating
out of a pure mental vacuum.

All this philosophy aside, Cissie's appearance just in the nick of his inspiration, her surprising
proposal of marriage, and his refusal, had accomplished one thing: it had committed Peter to
the program he had outlined to the girl.

Indeed, there seemed something fatalistic in such a concatenation of events. Siner wondered
whether or not he would have obeyed his vision without this added impulse from Cissie. He did
not know; but now, since it had all come about just as it had, he suspected he would have been
neglectful. He felt as if a dangerous but splendid channel had been opened before his eyes,
and almost at the same instant a hand had reached down and directed his life into it. This
fancy moved the mulatto. As he got himself ready for bed, he kept thinking:

"Well, my life is settled at last. There is nothing else for me to do. Even if this should
end terribly for me, as Cissie imagines, my life won't be wasted."

Next morning Peter Siner was awakened by old Rose Hobbett thrusting her head in at his door,
staring around, and finally, seeing Peter in bed, grumbling:

"Why is you still heah, black man?"

The secretary opened his eyes in astonishment.

"Why shouldn't I be here?"

"Nobody wuz 'speckin' you to be heah." The crone withdrew her head and vanished.

Peter wondered at this unaccustomed interest of Rose, then hurried out of bed, supposing himself
late for breakfast.

A dense fog had come up from the river, and the moisture floating into his open windows had
dampened his whole room. Peter stepped briskly to the screen and began splashing himself. It
was only in the midst of his ablutions that he remembered his inspiration and resolve of the
previous evening. As he squeezed the water over his powerfully molded body, he recalled it
almost impersonally. It might have happened to some third person. He did not even recall distinctly
the threads of the logic which had lifted him to such a Pisgah, and showed him the whole South
as a new and promised land. However, he knew that he could start his train of thought again,
and again ascend the mountain.

Floating through the fog into his open window came the noises of the village as it set about
living another day, precisely as it had lived innumerable days in the past. The blast of the
six-o'clock whistle from the planing-mill made the loose sashes of his windows rattle. Came
a lowing of cows and a clucking of hens, a woman's calling. The voices of men in conversation
came so distinctly through the pall that it seemed a number of persons must be moving about
their morning work, talking and shouting, right in the Renfrew yard.

But the thing that impressed Peter most was the solidity and stability of this Southern village
that he could hear moving around him, and its certainty to go on in the future precisely as
it had gone on in the past. It was a tremendous force. The very old manor about him seemed
huge and intrenched in long traditions, while he, Peter Siner, was just a brown man, naked
behind a screen and rather cold from the fog and damp of the morning.

He listened to old Rose clashing the kitchen utensils. As he drew on his damp underwear, he
wondered what he could say to old Rose that would persuade her into a little kindliness and
tolerance for the white people. As he listened he felt hopeless; he could never explain to
the old creature that her own happiness depended upon the charity she extended to others. She
could never understand it. She would live and die precisely the same bitter old beldam that
she was, and nothing could ever assuage her.

While Peter was thinking of the old creature, she came shuffling along the back piazza with
his breakfast. She let herself in by lifting one knee to a horizontal, balancing the tray on
it, then opening the door with her freed hand.

When the shutter swung open, it displayed the crone standing on one foot, wearing a man's grimy
sock, which had fallen down over a broken, run-down shoe.

In Peter's mood the thought of this wretched old woman putting on such garments morning after
morning was unspeakably pathetic. He thought of his own mother, who had lived and died only
a shade or two removed from the old crone's condition.

Rose put down her foot, and entered the room with her lips poked out, ready to make instant
attack if Peter mentioned his lack of supper the night before.

"Aunt Rose," asked the secretary, with his friendly intent in his tones, "how came you to look
in this morning and say you didn't expect to find me in my room?"

She gave an unintelligible grunt, pushed the lamp to one side, and eased her tray to the table.

Peter finished touching his tie before one of those old-fashioned mirrors, not of cut-glass,
yet perfectly true. He came from the mirror and moved his chair, out of force of habit, so
he could look up the street toward the Arkwrights'.

"Aunt Rose," said the young man, wistfully, "why are you always angry?"

She bridled at this extraordinary inquiry.

"Me?"

"Yes, you."

She hesitated a moment, thinking how she could make her reply a personal assault on Peter.

"'Cause you come heah, 'sputin' my rights, da' 's' why."

"No," demurred Peter, "you were quarreling in the kitchen the first morning I came here, and
you didn't know I was on the place."

"Well--I got my tribulations," she snapped, staring suspiciously at these unusual questions.

There was a pause; then Peter said placatingly:

"I was just thinking, Aunt Rose, you might forget your tribulations if you didn't ride them
all the time."

"Hoccum! What you mean, ridin' my tribulations?"

"Thinking about them. The old Captain, for instance; you are no happier always abusing the
old Captain."

The old virago gave a sniff, tossed her head, but kept her eyes rolled suspiciously on Peter.

"Very often the way we think and act makes us happy or unhappy," moralized Peter, broadly.

"Look heah, nigger, you ain't no preacher sont out by de Lawd to me!"

"Anyway, I am sure you would feel more friendly toward the Captain if you acted openly with
him; for instance, if you didn't take off all his cold victuals, and handkerchiefs and socks,
soap, kitchenware--"

The cook snorted.

"I'd feel dat much mo' nekked an' hongry, dat's how I'd feel."

"Perhaps, if you'd start over, he might give you a better wage."

"Huh!" she snorted in an access of irony. "I see dat skinflint gib'n' me a better wage. Puuh!"
The suddenly she realized where the conversation had wandered, and stared at the secretary
with widening eyes "Good Lawd! Did dat fool Cap'n set up a nigger in dis bedroom winder jes
to ketch ole Rose packin' off a few ole lef'-overs?" Peter began a hurried denial, but she
rushed on: "'Fo' Gawd, I hopes his viddles chokes him! I hope his ole smoke-house falls down
on his ole haid. I hope to Jesus--"

Peter pleaded with her not to think the Captain was behind his observations, but the hag rushed
out of the bedroom, swinging her head from side to side, uttering the most terrible maledictions.
She would show him! She wouldn't put another foot in his old kitchen. Wild horses couldn't
drag her into his smoke-house again.

Peter ran to the door and called after her down the piazza, trying to exonerate the Captain:
but she either did not or would not hear, and vanished into the kitchen, still furious.

Old Rose made Peter so uneasy that he deserted his breakfast midway and hurried to the library.
In the solemn old room he found the Captain alone and in rather a pleased mood. The old gentleman
stood patting and alining a pile of manuscript. As the mulatto entered he exclaimed:

"Well, here's Peter again!" as if his secretary had been off on a long journey. Immediately
afterward he added, "Peter, guess what I did last night." His voice was full of triumph.

Peter was thinking about Aunt Rose, and stood looking at the Captain without the slightest idea.

"I wrote all of this,"--he indicated his manuscript,--"over a hundred pages."

Peter considered the work without much enthusiasm.

"You must have worked all night."

The old attorney rubbed his hands.

"I think I may claim a touch of inspiration last night, Peter. Reminiscences rippled from under
my pen, propitious words, prosperous sentences. Er--the fact is, Peter, you will see, when
you begin copying, I had come to a matter--a--a matter of some moment in my life. Every life
contains such moments, Peter. I had meant to write something in the nature of a defen--an explanation,
Peter. But after you left the library last night it suddenly occurred to me just to give each
fact as it took place, quite frankly. So I did that--not--not what I meant to write, at all--ah.
As you copy it, you may find it not entirely without some interest to yourself, Peter."

"To me?" repeated Peter, after the fashion of the unattentative.

"Yes, to yourself." The Captain was oddly moved. He took his hands off the script, walked a
little away from the table, came back to it. "It-- ah--may explain a good many things that--er--may
have puzzled you." He cleared his throat and shifted his subject briskly. "We ought to be thinking
about a publisher. What publisher shall we have publish these reminiscences? Make some stir
in Tennessee's political circles, Peter; tremendous sales; clear up questions everybody is
interested in. H-m--well, I'll walk down town and you"--he motioned to the script-- "begin
copying--"

"By the way, Captain," said Peter as the old gentleman turned for the door, "has Rose said
anything to you yet?"

The old man detached his mind from his script with an obvious effort.

"What about?"

"About leaving your service."

"No-o, not especially; she's always leaving my service."

"But in this case it was my fault; at least I brought it about. I remonstrated with her about
taking your left-over victuals and socks and handkerchiefs and things. She was quite offended."

"Yes, it always offends her," agreed the old man, impatiently. "I never mention it myself unless
I catch her red-handed; then I storm a little to keep her in bounds."

Naturally, Peter knew of this extraordinary system of service in the South; nevertheless he
was shocked at its implications.

"Captain," suggested Peter, "wouldn't you find it to your own interest to give old Rose a full
cash payment for her services and allow her to buy her own things?"

The Captain dismissed the subject with a wave of his hand. "She's a nigger, Peter; you can't
hire a nigger not to steal. Born in 'em. Then I'm not sure but what it would be compounding
a felony, hiring a person not to steal; might be so construed. Well, now, there's the script.
Read it carefully, my boy, and remember that in order to gain a certain status quo certain
antecedents are--are absolutely necessary, Peter. Without them my--my life would have been
quite empty, Peter. It's--it's very strange--amazing. You will understand as you read. I'll
be back to dinner, so good-by." In the strangest agitation the old Captain walked out of the
library. The last glimpse Peter had of him was his meager old figure silhouetted against the
cold gray fog that filled the compound.

Neither the Captain's agitation nor his obvious desire that Peter should at once read the new
manuscript really got past the threshold of the mulatto's consciousness. Peter's thoughts still
hovered about old Rose, and from that point spread to the whole system of colored service in
the South. For Rose's case was typical. The wage of cooks in small Southern villages is a pittance--and
what they can steal. The tragedy of the mothers of a whole race working for their board and
thievings came over Peter with a rising grimness. And there was no public sentiment against
such practice. It was accepted everywhere as natural and inevitable. The negresses were never
prosecuted; no effort was made to regain the stolen goods. The employers realized that what
they paid would not keep soul and body together; that it was steal or perish.

It was a fantastic truth that for any colored girl to hire into domestic service in Hooker's
Bend was more or less entering an apprenticeship in peculation. What she could steal was the
major portion of her wage, if two such anomalous terms may be used in conjunction.

Yet, strange to say, the negro women of the village were quite honest in other matters. They
paid their small debts. They took their mistresses' pocket-books to market and brought back
the correct change. And if a mistress grew too indignant about something they had stolen, they
would bring it back and say: "Here is a new one. I'd rather buy you a new one than have you
think I would take anything."

The whole system was the lees of slavery, and was surely the most demoralizing, the most grotesque
method of hiring service in the whole civilized world. It was so absurd that its mere relation
lapses into humor, that bane of black folk.

Such painful thoughts filled the gloomy library and harassed Peter in his copying. He took
his work to the window and tried to concentrate upon it, but his mind kept playing away.

Indeed, it seemed to Peter that to sit in this old room and rewrite the wordy meanderings of
the old gentleman's book was the very height of emptiness. How utterly futile, when all around
him, on every hand, girls like Cissie Dildine were being indentured to corruption! And, as
far as Peter knew, he was the only person in the South who saw it or felt it or cared anything
at all about it.

When Cissie Dildine came to the surface of Peter's mind she remained there, whirling around
and around in his chaotic thoughts. He began talking to her image, after a certain dramatic
trick of his mind, and she began offering her environment as an excuse for what had come between
them and estranged them. She stole, but she had been trained to steal. She was a thief, the
victim of an immense immorality. The charm of Cissie, her queer, swift-working intuition, the
candor of her confession, her voluptuousness--all came rushing down on Peter, harassing him
with anger and love and desire. To copy any more script became impossible. He lost his place;
he hardly knew what he was writing.

He flung aside the whole work, got to his feet with the imperative need of an athlete for the
open. He started out of the room, but as an afterthought scribbled a nervous line, telling
the Captain he might not be back for dinner. Then he found his hat and coat and walked briskly
around the piazza to the front gate.

The trees and shrubs were dripping, but the fog had almost cleared away, leaving only a haze
in the air. A pale, level line of it cut across the scarp of the Big Hill. The sun shone with
a peculiar soft light through the vapors.

As Peter passed out at the gate, the fancy came to him that he might very well be starting
on his mission. It came with a sort of surprise. He wondered how other men had set about reforms.
With unpremeditation? He wondered to whom Jesus of Nazareth preached his first sermon. The
thought of that young Galilean, sensitive, compassionate, inexperienced, speaking to his first
hearer, filled Peter with a strange trembling tenderness. He looked about the familiar street
of Hooker's Bend, the old trees over the pavement, the shabby village houses, and it all held
a strangeness when thus juxtaposed to the thought of Nazareth nineteen hundred years before.

The mulatto started down the street with his footsteps quickened by a sense of spiritual adventure.

                              CHAPTER XVI

On the corner, against the blank south wall of Hobbett's store, Peter Siner saw the usual crowd
of negroes warming themselves in the soft sunshine. They were slapping one another, scuffling,
making feints with knives or stones, all to an accompaniment of bragging, profanity, and loud
laughter. Their behavior was precisely that of adolescent white boys of fifteen or sixteen
years of age.

Jim Pink Staggs was furnishing much amusement with an impromptu sleight- of-hand exhibition.
The black audience clustered around Jim Pink in his pinstripe trousers and blue-serge coat.
They exhibited not the least curiosity as to the mechanics of the tricks, but asked for more
and still more, with the naïve delight of children in the mysterious.

Peter Siner walked down the street with his Messianic impulse strong upon him. He was in that
stage of feeling toward his people where a man's emotions take the color of religion. Now,
as he approached the crowd of negroes, he wondered what he could say, how he could transfer
to them the ideas and the emotion that lifted up his own heart.

As he drew nearer, his concern mounted to anxiety. Indeed, what could he say? How could he
present so grave a message? He was right among them now. One of the negroes jostled him by
striking around his body at another negro. Peter stopped. His heart beat, and he had a queer
sensation of being operated by some power outside himself. Next moment he heard himself saying
in fairly normal tones:

"Fellows, do you think we ought to be idling on the street corners like this? We ought to be
at work, don't you think?"

The horse-play stopped at this amazing sentiment.

"Whuffo, Peter?" asked a voice.

"Because the whole object of our race nowadays is to gain the respect of other races, and more
particularly our own self-respect. We haven't it now. The only way to get it is to work, work,
work."

"Ef you feel lak you'd ought to go to wuck," suggested one astonished hearer, "you done got
my p'mission, black boy, to hit yo' natchel gait to de fust job in sight."

Peter was hardly less surprised than his hearers at what he was saying. He paid no attention
to the interruption.

"Fellows, it's the only way our colored people can get on and make the most out of life. Persistent
labor is the very breath of the soul, men; it--it is." Here Peter caught an intimation of the
whole flow of energy through the universe, focusing in man and being transformed into mental
and moral values. And it suddenly occurred to him that the real worth of any people was their
efficiency in giving this flow of force moral and spiritual forms. That is the end of man;
that is what is prefigured when a baby's hand reaches for the sun. But Peter considered his
audience, and his thought stammered on his tongue. The Persimmon, with his protruding, half-asleep
eyes, was saying:

"I don' know, Peter, as I 's so partic'lar 'bout makin' de mos' out'n dis worl'. You know de
Bible say--hit say,"--here the Persimmon's voice dropped a tone lower, in unconscious imitation
of negro preachers,--"la- ay not up yo' treasure on uth, wha moss do corrup', an' thieves break
th'ugh an' steal."

Came a general nodding and agreement of soft, blurry voices.

"'At sho whut it say, black man!"

"Sho do!"

"Lawd God loves a nigger on a street corner same as He do a millionaire in a six-cylinder, Peter."

"Sho do, black man; but He's jes about de onlies' thing on uth 'at do."

"Well, I don' know," came a troubled rejoinder. "Thaiuh 's de debbil, ketchin' mo' niggers
nowadays dan he do white men, I 'fo' Gawd b'liebes."

"Well, dat's because dey is so many mo' niggers dan dey is white folks," put in a philosopher.

"Whut you say 'bout dat, Brudder Peter?" inquired the Persimmon, seriously. None of this discussion
was either derision or burlesque. None of the crowd had the slightest feeling that these questions
were not just as practical and important as the suggestion that they all go to work.

When Peter realized how their ignorant and undisciplined thoughts flowed off into absurdities,
and that they were entirely unaware of it, it brought a great depression to his heart. He held
up a hand with an earnestness that caught their vagrant attention.

"Listen!" he pleaded. "Can't you see how much there is for us black folks to do, and what little
we have done?"

"Sho is a lot to do; we admits dat," said Bluegum Frakes. "But whut's de use doin' hit ef we
kin manage to shy roun' some o' dat wuck an' keep on libin' anyhow, specially wid wages so high?"

The question stopped Peter. Neither his own thoughts, nor any book that he had ever read nor
any lecture that he had heard ever attempted to explain the enormous creative urge which is
felt by every noble mind, and which, indeed, is shared to some extent by every human creature.
Put to it like that, Siner concocted a sort of allegory, telling of a negro who was shiftless
in the summer and suffered want in the winter, and applied it to the present high wage and
to the low wage that was coming; but in his heart Peter knew such utilitarianism was not the
true reason at all. Men do not weave tapestries to warm themselves, or build temples to keep
the rain away.

The brown man passed on around the corner, out of the faint warmth of the sunshine and away
from the empty and endless arguments which his coming had provoked among the negroes.

The futile ending of his first adventure surprised Peter. He walked uncertainly up the business
street of the village, hardly knowing where to turn next.

Cold weather had driven the merchants indoors, and the thoroughfare was quite deserted except
for a few hogs rooting among the refuse heaps piled in front of the stores. It was not a pleasant
sight, and it repelled Peter all the more because he was accustomed to the antiseptic look
of a Northern city. He walked up to the third door from the corner, when a buzz of voices brought
him to a standstill and finally persuaded him inside.

At the back end of a badly lighted store a circle of white men and boys had formed around an
old-fashioned, egg-shaped stove. Near by, on some meal-bags, sat two negroes, one of whom wore
a broad grin, the other, a funny, sheepish look.

The white men were teasing the latter negro about having gone to jail for selling a mortgaged
cow. The men went about their fun-making leisurely, knowing quite well the negro could not
get angry or make any retort or leave the store, all of these methods of self-defense being
ruled out by custom.

"You must have forgot your cow was mortgaged, Bob."

"No-o-o, suh; I--I--I didn't fuhgit," drawling his vowels to a prodigious length.

"Didn't you know you'd get into trouble?"

"No-o-o, suh."

"Know it now, don't you?"

"Ya-a-s, suh."

"Have a good time in jail, Bob?"

"Ya-a-s, suh. Shot cra-a-aps nearly all de time tull de jailer broke hit up."

"Wouldn't he let you shoot any more?"

"No-o-o, suh; not after he won all our money." Here Bob flung up his head, poked out his lips
like a bugle, and broke into a grotesque, "Hoo! hoo! hoo!" It was such an absurd laugh, and
Bob's tale had come to such an absurd denouement, that the white men roared, and shuffled their
feet on the flared base of the stove. Some spat in or near a box filled with sawdust, and betrayed
other nervous signs of satisfaction. When a man so spat, he stopped laughing abruptly, straightened
his face, and stared emptily at the rusty stove until further inquisition developed some other
preposterous escapade in Bob's jail career.

The merchant, looking up at one of these intermissions, saw Peter standing at his counter.
He came out of the circle and asked Peter what he wanted. The mulatto bought a package of soda
and went out.

The chill north wind smelled clean after the odors of the store. Peter stood with his package
of soda, breathing deeply, looking up and down the street, wondering what to do next. Without
much precision of purpose, he walked diagonally across the street, northward toward a large
faded sign that read, "Killibrew's Grocery." A little later Peter entered a big, rather clean
store which smelled of spices, coffee, and a faint dash of decayed potatoes. Mr. Killibrew
himself, a big, rotund man, with a round head of prematurely white hair, was visible in a little
glass office at the end of his store. Even through the glazed partition Peter could see Mr.
Killibrew smiling as he sat comfortably at his desk. Indeed, the grocer's chief assets were
a really expansive friendliness and a pleasant, easily provoked laughter.

He was fifty-two years old, and had been in the grocery business since he was fifteen. He had
never been to school at all, but had learned bookkeeping, business mathematics, salesmanship,
and the wisdom of the market-place from his store, from other merchants, and from the drummers
who came every week with their samples and their worldly wisdom. These drummers were, almost
to a man, very sincere friends of Mr. Killibrew, and not infrequently they would write the
grocer from the city, or send him telegrams, advising him to buy this or to unload that, according
to the exigencies of the market. As a result of this was very well off indeed, and all because
he was a friendly, agreeable sort of man.

The grocer heard Peter enter and started to come out of his office, when Peter stopped him
and asked if he might speak with him alone.

The white-haired man with the pink, good-natured face stood looking at Peter with rather a
questioning but pleasant expression.

"Why, certainly, certainly." He turned back to the swivel-chair at his desk, seated himself,
and twisted about on Peter as he entered. Mr. Killibrew did not offer Peter a seat,--that would
have been an infraction of Hooker's Bend custom,--but he sat leaning back, evidently making
up his mind to refuse Peter credit, which he fancied the mulatto would ask for and yet do it
pleasantly.

"I was wondering, Mr. Killibrew," began Peter feeling his way along, "I was wondering if you
would mind talking over a little matter with me. It's considered a delicate subject, I believe,
but I thought a frank talk would help."

During the natural pauses of Peter's explanation Mr. Killibrew kept up a genial series of nods
and ejaculations.

"Certainly, Peter. I don't see why, Peter. I'm sure it will help, Peter."

"I'd like to talk frankly about the relations of our two races in the South, in Hooker's Bend."

The grocer stopped his running accompaniment of affirmations and looked steadfastly at Peter.
Presently he seemed to solve some question and broke into a pleasant laugh.

"Now, Peter, if this is some political shenanigan, I must tell you I'm a Democrat. Besides
that, I don't care a straw about politics. I vote, and that's all."

Peter put down the suspicion that he was on a political errand.

"Not that at all, Mr. Killibrew. It's a question of the white race and the black race. The
particular feature I am working on is the wages paid to cooks."

"I didn't know you were a cook," interjected the grocer in surprise.

"I am not."

Mr. Killibrew looked at Peter, thought intensely for a few moments, and came to an unescapable
conclusion.

"You don't mean you've formed a cook's union here in Hooker's Bend, Peter!" he cried, immensely
amazed.

"Not at all. It's this," clarified Peter. "It may seem trivial, but it illustrates the principle
I'm trying to get at. Doesn't your cook carry away cold food?"

It required perhaps four seconds for the merchant to stop his speculations on what Peter had
come for and adjust his mind to the question.

"Why, yes, I suppose so," he agreed, very much at sea. "I--I never caught up with her." He
laughed a pleasant, puzzled laugh. "Of course she doesn't come around and show me what she's
making off with. Why?"

"Well, it's this. Wouldn't you prefer to give your cook a certain cash payment instead of having
her taking uncertain amounts of your foodstuffs and wearing apparel?"

The merchant leaned forward in his chair.

"Did old Becky Davis send you to me with any such proposition as that, Peter?"

"No, not at all. But, Mr. Killibrew, wouldn't you like better and more trustworthy servants
as cooks, as farm-hands, chauffeurs, stable-boys? You see, you and your children and your children's
children are going to have to depend on negro labor, as far as we can see, to the end of time."

"We-e-ell, yes," admitted Mr. Killibrew, who was not accustomed to considering the end of time.

"Wouldn't it be better to have honest, self-respecting help than dishonest help?"

"Certainly."

"Then let's think about cooks. How can one hope to rear an honest, self- respecting citizenry
as long as the mothers of the race are compelled to resort to thievery to patch out an insufficient
wage?"

"Why, I don't suppose niggers ever will be honest," admitted the grocer, very frankly. "You
naturally don't trust a nigger. If you credit one for a dime, the next time he has any money
he'll go trade somewhere else." The grocer broke into his contagious laugh. "Do you know how
I've built up my business here, Peter? By never trusting a nigger." Mr. Killibrew continued
his pleased chuckle. "Yes, I get the whole cash trade of the niggers in Hooker's Bend by never
cheating one and never trusting one."

The grocer leaned back in his squeaking chair and looked out through the glass partition, over
the brightly colored packages that lined his shelves from floor to ceiling. All that prosperity
had come about through a policy of honesty and distrust. It was something to be proud of.

"Now, let me see," he proceeded, recurring pleasantly to what he recalled of Peter's original
proposition: "Aunt Becky sent you here to tell me if I'd raise her pay, she'd stop stealin'
and--and raise some honest children." Mr. Killibrew threw back his head broke into loud, jelly-like
laughter. "Why, don't you know, Peter, she's an old liar. If I gave her a hundred a week, she'd
steal. And children! Why, the old humbug! She's too old; she's had her crop. And, besides all
that, I don't mind what the old woman takes. It isn't much. She's a good old darky, faithful
as a dog." He arose from his swivel-chair briskly and floated Peter out before him. "Tell her,
if she wants a raise," he concluded heartily, "and can't pinch enough out of my kitchen and
the two dollars I pay her--tell her to come to me, straight out, and I'll give her more, and
she can pinch more."

Mr. Killibrew moved down the aisle of his store between fragrant barrels and boxes, laughing
mellowly at old Aunt Becky's ruse, as he saw it. As he turned Peter out, he invited him to
come again when he needed anything in the grocery line.

And he was so pleasant, hearty, and sincere in his friendliness toward both Peter and old Aunt
Becky that Peter, even amid the complete side- tracking and derailing of his mission, decided
that it ever he did have occasion to purchase any groceries, he would do his trading at this
market ruled by an absolute honesty with, and a complete distrust in, his race.

At the conclusion of the Killibrew interview Peter instinctively felt that he had just about
touched the norm of Hooker's Bend. The village might contain men who would dive a little deeper
into the race question with Peter; assuredly, there would be hundreds who would not dive so
deep. Mr. Killibrew's attitude on the race question turned on how to hold the negro patronage
of the village to his grocery. It was not an abstract question at all, but a concrete fact,
which he had worked out to his own satisfaction. With Mr. Killibrew, with all Hooker's Bend,
there was no negro question.

                              CHAPTER XVII

When Peter Siner started on his indefinite errand among the village stores he believed it would
require much tact and diplomacy to discuss the race question without offense. To his surprise,
no precaution was necessary. Everybody agreed at once that the South would be benefited by
a more trustworthy labor, that if the negroes were trustworthy they could be paid more; but
nobody agreed that if negroes were paid more they would become more trustworthy. The prevailing
dictum was, A nigger's a nigger.

As Peter came out into the shabby little street of Hooker's Bend discouragement settled upon
him. He felt as if he had come squarely against some blank stone wall that no amount of talking
could budge. The black man would have to change his psychology or remain where he was, a creature
of poverty, hovels, and dirt; but amid such surroundings he could not change his psychology.

The point of these unhappy conclusions somehow turned against Cissie Dildine. The mulatto became
aware that his whole crusade had been undertaken in behalf of the octoroon. Everything the
merchants said against negroes became accusations against Cissie in a sharp personal way. "A
nigger is a nigger"; "A thief is a thief"; "She wouldn't quit stealing if I paid her a hundred
a week." Every stroke had fallen squarely on Cissie's shoulders. A nigger, a thief; and she
would never be otherwise.

It was all so hopeless, so unchangeable, that Peter walked down the bleak street unutterably
depressed There was nothing he could do. The situation was static. It seemed best that he should
go away North and save his own skin. It was impossible to take Cissie with him. Perhaps in
time he would come to forget her, and in so doing he would forget the pauperism and pettinesses
of all the black folk of the South. Because through Cissie Peter saw the whole negro race.
She was flexuous and passionate, kindly and loving, childish and naïvely wise; on occasion
she could falsify and steal, and in the depth of her Peter sensed a profound capacity for fury
and violence. For all her precise English, she was untamed, perhaps untamable.

Cissie was a far cry from the sort of woman Peter imagined he wanted for a mate; yet he knew
that if he stayed on in Hooker's Bend, seeing her, desiring her, with her luxury mocking the
loneliness of the old Renfrew manor, presently he would marry her. Already he had had his little
irrational moments when it seemed to him that Cissie herself was quite fine and worthy and
that her speculations were something foreign and did not pertain to her at all.

He would better go North. It would be safer up there. No doubt he could find another colored
girl in the North. The thought of fondling any other woman filled Peter with a sudden, sharp
repulsion. However, Peter was wise. He knew he would get over that in time.

With this plan in mind, Peter set out down the street, intending to cross the Big Hill at the
church, walk over to his mother's shack, and pack his few belongings preparatory to going away.

It was not a heroic retreat. The conversation which he had had with his college friend Farquhar
recurred to Peter. Farquhar had tried to persuade Peter to remain North and take a position
in a system of garages out of Chicago.

"You can do nothing in the South, Siner," assured Farquhar; "your countrymen must stand on
their own feet, just as you are doing."

Peter had argued the vast majority of the negroes had no chance, but Farquhar pressed the point
that Peter himself disproved his own statement. At the time Peter felt there was an clench
in the Illinoisan's logic, but he was not skilful enough to analyze it. Now the mulatto began
to see that Farquhar was right. The negro question was a matter of individual initiative. Critics
forgot that a race was composed of individual men.

Peter had an uneasy sense that this was exceedingly thin logic, a mere smoke screen behind
which he meant to retreat back up North. He walked on down the poor village street, turning
it over and over in his mind, affirming it positively to himself, after the manner of uneasy
consciences.

An unusual stir among the negroes on Hobbett's corner caught Peter's attention and broke into
his chain of thought. Half a dozen negroes stood on the corner, staring down toward the white
church. A black boy suddenly started running across the street, and disappeared among the stores
on the other side. Peter caught glimpses of him among the wretched alleyways and vacant lots
that lie east of Main Street. The boy was still running toward Niggertown.

By this time Peter was just opposite the watchers on the corner. He lifted his voice and asked
them the matter, but at the moment they began an excited talking, and no one heard him.

Jim Pink Staggs jerked off his fur cap, made a gesture, contorted his long, black face into
a caricature of fright, and came loping across the street, looking back over his shoulder,
mimicking a run for life His mummery set his audience howling.

The buffoon would have collided with Peter, but the mulatto caught Jim Pink by the arm and
shoulder, brought him to a halt, and at the same time helped him keep his feet.

To Peter's inquiry what was the matter, the black fellow whirled and blared out loudly, for
the sake of his audience:

"'Fo' Gawd, nigger, I sho thought Mr. Bobbs had me!" and he writhed his face into an idiotic
grimace.

The audience reeled about in their mirth. Because with negroes, as with white persons, two
thirds of humor is in the reputation, and Jim Pink was of prodigious repute.

Peter walked along with him patiently, because he knew that until they were out of ear-shot
of the crowd there was no way of getting a sensible answer out of Jim Pink.

"Where are you going?" he asked presently.

"Thought I'd step over to Niggertown." Jim Pink's humorous air was still upon him.

"What's doing over there? What were the boys raising such a hullabaloo about?"

"Such me."

"Why did that boy go running across like that?"

Jim Pink rolled his eyes on Peter with a peculiar look.

"Reckon he mus' 'a' wanted to git on t'other side o' town."

Peter flattered the Punchinello by smiling a little.

"Come, Jim Pink, what do you know?" he asked. The magician poked out his huge lips.

"Mr. Bobbs turn acrost by de church, over de Big Hill. Da' 's always a ba-ad sign."

Peter's brief interest in the matter flickered out. Another arrest for some niggerish peccadillo.
The history of Niggertown was one long series of petty offenses, petty raids, and petty punishments.
Peter would be glad to get well away from such a place.

"Think I'll go North, Jim Pink," remarked Peter, chiefly to keep up a friendly conversation
with his companion.

"Whut-chu goin' to do up thaiuh?"

"Take a position in a system of garages."

"A position is a job wid a white color on it," defined the minstrel. "Whut you goin' to do
wid Cissie?"

Peter looked around at the foolish face.

"With Cissie?--Cissie Dildine?"

"Uh huh."

"Why, what makes you think I'm going to do anything with Cissie?"

"M-m, visitin' roun'." The fool flung his face into a grimace, and dropped it as one might
shake out a sack.

Peter watched the contortion uneasily.

"What do you mean--visiting around?"

   "Diff'nt folks go visitin' roun';
    Some goes up an' some goes down."

Apparently Jim Pink had merely quoted a few words from a poem he knew. He stared at the green-black
depth of the glade, which set in about half-way up the hill they were climbing.

"Ef this weather don' ever break," he observed sagely, "we sho am in fuh a dry spell."

Peter did not pursue the topic of the weather. He climbed the hill in silence, wondering just
what the buffoon meant. He suspected he was hinting at Cissie's visit to his room. However,
he did not dare ask any questions or press the point in any manner, lest he commit himself.

The minstrel had succeeded in making Peter's walk very uncomfortable, as somehow he always
did. Peter went on thinking about the matter. If Jim Pink knew of Cissie's visit, all Niggertown
knew it. No woman's reputation, nobody's shame or misery or even life, would stand between
Jim Pink and what he considered a joke. The buffoon was the crudest thing in this world--a
man who thought himself a wit.

Peter could imagine all the endless tweaks to Cissie's pride Niggertown would give the octoroon.
She had asked Peter to marry her and had been refused. She had humbled herself for naught.
That was the very tar of shame. Peter knew that in the moral categories of Niggertown Cissie
would suffer more from such a rebuff than if she had lied or committed theft and adultery every
day in the calendar. She had been refused marriage. All the folk-ways of Niggertown were utterly
topsyturvy. It was a crazy-house filled with the most grotesque moral measures.

It seemed to Peter as he entered the cedar-glade that he had lost all sympathy with this people
from which he had sprung. He looked upon them as strange, incomprehensible beings, just as
a man will forget his own childhood and look upon children as strange, incomprehensible little
creatures. In the midst of his thoughts he heard himself saying to Jim Pink:

"I suppose it is as dusty as ever."

"Dustier 'an ever," assured Jim Pink.

Apparently their conversation had recurred to the weather, after all.

A chill silence encompassed the glade. The path the negroes followed wound this way and that
among reddish boulders, between screens of intergrown cedars, and over a bronze mat of needles.
Their steps were noiseless. The odor of the cedars and the temple-like stillness brought to
Peter's mind the night of his mother's death. It seemed to him a long time since he had come
running through the glade after a doctor, and yet, by a queer distortion of his sense of time,
his mother's death and burial bulked in his past as if it had occurred yesterday.

There was no sound in the glade to disturb Peter's thoughts except a murmur of human voices
from some of the innumerable privacies of the place, and the occasional chirp of a waxwing
busy over clusters of cedar-balls.

It had been five weeks and a day since Caroline died. Five weeks and a day; his mother's death
drifting away into the mystery and oblivion of the past. Likewise, twenty-five years of his
own life completed and gone.

A procession of sad, wistful thoughts trailed through Peter's brain: his mother, and Ida May,
and now Cissie. It seemed to Peter that all any woman had ever brought him was wistfulness
and sadness. His mother had been jealous, and instead of the great happiness he had expected,
his home life with her had turned out a series of small perplexities and pains. Before that
was Ida May, and now here was her younger sister. Peter wondered if any man ever reached the
peace and happiness foreshadowed in his dream of a woman.

                    *       *       *       *       *

A voice calling his name checked Peter's stride mechanically, and caused him to look about
with the slight bewilderment of a man aroused from a reverie.

At the first sound, however, Jim Pink became suddenly alert. He took three strides ahead of
Peter, and as he went he whispered over his shoulder:

"Beat it, nigger! beat it!"

The mulatto recognized one of Jim Pink's endless stupid attempts at comedy. It would be precisely
Jim Pink's idea of a jest to give Peter a little start. As the mulatto stood looking about
among the cedars for the person who had called his name, it amazed him that Jim Pink could
be so utterly insane; that he performed some buffoonery instantly, by reflex action as it were,
upon the slightest provocation. It was almost a mania with Jim Pink; it verged on the pathological.

The clown, however, was pressing his joke. He was pretending great fear, and was shouting out
in his loose minstrel voice:

"Hey, don' shoot down dis way, black man, tull I makes my exit!" And a voice, rich with contempt,
called back:

"You needn't be skeered, you fool rabbit of a nigger!"

Peter turned with a qualm. Quite close to him, and in another direction from which he had been
looking, stood Tump Pack. The ex-soldier looked the worse for wear after his jail sentence.
His uniform was frayed, and over his face lay a grayish cast that marks negroes in bad condition.
At his side, attached by a belt and an elaborate shoulder holster, hung a big army revolver,
while on the greasy lapel of his coat was pinned his military medal for exceptional bravery
on the field of battle.

"Been lookin' fuh you fuh some time, Peter," he stated grimly.

Peter considered the formidable figure with a queer sensation. He tried to take Tump's appearance
casually; he tried to maintain an air of ordinariness.

"Didn't know you were back."

"Yeah, I's back."

"Have you--been looking for me?"

"Yeah."

"Didn't you know where I was staying?"

"Co'se I did; up 'mong de white folks. You know dey don' 'low no shootin' an' killin' 'mong
de white folks." He drew his pistol from the holster with the address of an expert marksman.

Peter stood, with a quickening pulse, studying his assailant. The glade, the air, the sunshine,
seemed suddenly drawn to a tension, likely to, break into violent commotion. His abrupt danger
brought Peter to a feeling of lightness and power. A quiver went along his spine. His nostrils
widened unconsciously as he calculated a leap and a blow at Tump's gun.

The soldier took a step backward, at the same time bringing the barrel to a ready.

"Naw you don't," he warned sharply. "You turn roun' an' march on to Niggertown."

"What for?" Peter still tried to be casual, but his voice held new overtones.

"Because, nigger, I means to drap you right on de Main Street o' Niggertown, 'fo' all dem niggers
whut's been a-raggin' me 'bout you an' Cissie. I's gwine show dem fool niggers I don' take
no fumi-diddles off'n nobody."

"Tump," gasped Jim Pink, in a husky voice, "you oughtn't shoot Peter; he mammy jes daid."

"'En she won' worry none. Turn roun', Peter, an' when I says, 'March,' you march." He leveled
his pistol. "'Tention! Rat about face! March!"

Peter turned and moved off down the noiseless path, walking with the stiff gait of a man who
expects a terrific blow from behind at any instant.

The mulatto walked twenty or more paces amid a confusion of self- protective impulses. He thought
of whirling on Tump even at this late date. He thought of darting behind a cedar, but he knew
the man behind him was an expert shot, and something fundamental in the brown man forbade his
getting himself killed while running away. It was too undignified a death.

Presently he surprised himself by calling over his shoulder, as a sort of complaint:

"How came you with the pistol, Tump? Thought it was against the law to carry one."

"You kin ca'y 'em ef you don' keep 'em hid," explained the ex-soldier in a wooden voice. "Mr.
Bobbs tol' me dat when he guv my gun back."

