LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 12.

Chapter 56 A Question of Law

THE slaughter-house is gone from the mouth of Bear Creek and so is the small jail (or 'calaboose')
which once stood in its neighborhood. A citizen asked, 'Do you remember when Jimmy Finn, the
town drunkard, was burned to death in the calaboose?'

Observe, now, how history becomes defiled, through lapse of time and the help of the bad memories
of men.  Jimmy Finn was not burned in the calaboose, but died a natural death in a tan vat,
of a combination of delirium tremens and spontaneous combustion. When I say natural death,
I mean it was a natural death for Jimmy Finn to die.  The calaboose victim was not a citizen;
he was a poor stranger, a harmless whiskey-sodden tramp. I know more about his case than anybody
else; I knew too much of it, in that bygone day, to relish speaking of it.  That tramp was
wandering about the streets one chilly evening, with a pipe in his mouth, and begging for a
match; he got neither matches nor courtesy; on the contrary, a troop of bad little boys followed
him around and amused themselves with nagging and annoying him. I assisted; but at last, some
appeal which the wayfarer made for forbearance, accompanying it with a pathetic reference to
his forlorn and friendless condition, touched such sense of shame and remnant of right feeling
as were left in me, and I went away and got him some matches, and then hied me home and to
bed, heavily weighted as to conscience, and unbuoyant in spirit. An hour or two afterward,
the man was arrested and locked up in the calaboose by the marshal--large name for a constable,
but that was his title.  At two in the morning, the church bells rang for fire, and everybody
turned out, of course--I with the rest. The tramp had used his matches disastrously:  he had
set his straw bed on fire, and the oaken sheathing of the room had caught. When I reached the
ground, two hundred men, women, and children stood massed together, transfixed with horror,
and staring at the grated windows of the jail.  Behind the iron bars, and tugging frantically
at them, and screaming for help, stood the tramp; he seemed like a black object set against
a sun, so white and intense was the light at his back. That marshal could not be found, and
he had the only key. A battering-ram was quickly improvised, and the thunder of its blows upon
the door had so encouraging a sound that the spectators broke into wild cheering, and believed
the merciful battle won. But it was not so.  The timbers were too strong; they did not yield.
It was said that the man's death-grip still held fast to the bars after he was dead; and that
in this position the fires wrapped him about and consumed him.  As to this, I do not know.
What was seen after I recognized the face that was pleading through the bars was seen by others,
not by me.

I saw that face, so situated, every night for a long time afterward; and I believed myself
as guilty of the man's death as if I had given him the matches purposely that he might burn
himself up with them. I had not a doubt that I should be hanged if my connection with this
tragedy were found out.  The happenings and the impressions of that time are burnt into my
memory, and the study of them entertains me as much now as they themselves distressed me then.
If anybody spoke of that grisly matter, I was all ears in a moment, and alert to hear what
might be said, for I was always dreading and expecting to find out that I was suspected; and
so fine and so delicate was the perception of my guilty conscience, that it often detected
suspicion in the most purposeless remarks, and in looks, gestures, glances of the eye which
had no significance, but which sent me shivering away in a panic of fright, just the same.
And how sick it made me when somebody dropped, howsoever carelessly and barren of intent, the
remark that 'murder will out!' For a boy of ten years, I was carrying a pretty weighty cargo.

All this time I was blessedly forgetting one thing--the fact that I was an inveterate talker
in my sleep. But one night I awoke and found my bed-mate--my younger brother--sitting up in
bed and contemplating me by the light of the moon. I said--

'What is the matter?'

'You talk so much I can't sleep.'

I came to a sitting posture in an instant, with my kidneys in my throat and my hair on end.

'What did I say.  Quick--out with it--what did I say?'

'Nothing much.'

'It's a lie--you know everything.'

'Everything about what?'

'You know well enough.  About THAT.'

'About WHAT?--I don't know what you are talking about. I think you are sick or crazy or something.
But anyway, you're awake, and I'll get to sleep while I've got a chance.'

He fell asleep and I lay there in a cold sweat, turning this new terror over in the whirling
chaos which did duty as my mind. The burden of my thought was, How much did I divulge? How
much does he know?--what a distress is this uncertainty! But by and by I evolved an idea--I
would wake my brother and probe him with a supposititious case.  I shook him up, and said--

'Suppose a man should come to you drunk--'

'This is foolish--I never get drunk.'

'I don't mean you, idiot--I mean the man.  Suppose a MAN should come to you drunk, and borrow
a knife, or a tomahawk, or a pistol, and you forgot to tell him it was loaded, and--'

'How could you load a tomahawk?'

'I don't mean the tomahawk, and I didn't say the tomahawk; I said the pistol. Now don't you
keep breaking in that way, because this is serious. There's been a man killed.'

'What! in this town?'

'Yes, in this town.'

'Well, go on--I won't say a single word.'

'Well, then, suppose you forgot to tell him to be careful with it, because it was loaded, and
he went off and shot himself with that pistol--fooling with it, you know, and probably doing
it by accident, being drunk. Well, would it be murder?'

'No--suicide.'

'No, no.  I don't mean HIS act, I mean yours:  would you be a murderer for letting him have
that pistol?'

After deep thought came this answer--

'Well, I should think I was guilty of something--maybe murder--yes, probably murder, but I
don't quite know.'

This made me very uncomfortable.  However, it was not a decisive verdict. I should have to
set out the real case--there seemed to be no other way. But I would do it cautiously, and keep
a watch out for suspicious effects. I said--

'I was supposing a case, but I am coming to the real one now. Do you know how the man came
to be burned up in the calaboose?'

'No.'

'Haven't you the least idea?'

'Not the least.'

'Wish you may die in your tracks if you have?'

'Yes, wish I may die in my tracks.'

'Well, the way of it was this.  The man wanted some matches to light his pipe.  A boy got him
some.  The man set fire to the calaboose with those very matches, and burnt himself up.'

'Is that so?'

'Yes, it is.  Now, is that boy a murderer, do you think?'

'Let me see.  The man was drunk?'

'Yes, he was drunk.'

'Very drunk?'

'Yes.'

'And the boy knew it?'

'Yes, he knew it.'

There was a long pause.  Then came this heavy verdict--

'If the man was drunk, and the boy knew it, the boy murdered that man. This is certain.'

Faint, sickening sensations crept along all the fibers of my body, and I seemed to know how
a person feels who hears his death sentence pronounced from the bench.  I waited to hear what
my brother would say next. I believed I knew what it would be, and I was right.  He said--

'I know the boy.'

I had nothing to say; so I said nothing.  I simply shuddered. Then he added--

'Yes, before you got half through telling about the thing, I knew perfectly well who the boy
was; it was Ben Coontz!'

I came out of my collapse as one who rises from the dead. I said, with admiration--

'Why, how in the world did you ever guess it?'

'You told it in your sleep.'

I said to myself, 'How splendid that is!  This is a habit which must be cultivated.'

My brother rattled innocently on--

'When you were talking in your sleep, you kept mumbling something about "matches," which I
couldn't make anything out of; but just now, when you began to tell me about the man and the
calaboose and the matches, I remembered that in your sleep you mentioned Ben Coontz two or
three times; so I put this and that together, you see, and right away I knew it was Ben that
burnt that man up.'

I praised his sagacity effusively.  Presently he asked--

'Are you going to give him up to the law?'

'No,' I said; 'I believe that this will be a lesson to him. I shall keep an eye on him, of
course, for that is but right; but if he stops where he is and reforms, it shall never be said
that I betrayed him.'

'How good you are!'

'Well, I try to be.  It is all a person can do in a world like this.'

And now, my burden being shifted to other shoulders, my terrors soon faded away.

The day before we left Hannibal, a curious thing fell under my notice-- the surprising spread
which longitudinal time undergoes there. I learned it from one of the most unostentatious of
men--the colored coachman of a friend of mine, who lives three miles from town. He was to call
for me at the Park Hotel at 7.30 P.M., and drive me out. But he missed it considerably--did
not arrive till ten.  He excused himself by saying--

'De time is mos' an hour en a half slower in de country en what it is in de town; you'll be
in plenty time, boss. Sometimes we shoves out early for church, Sunday, en fetches up dah right
plum in de middle er de sermon.  Diffunce in de time. A body can't make no calculations 'bout it.'

I had lost two hours and a half; but I had learned a fact worth four.

Chapter 57 An Archangel

FROM St. Louis northward there are all the enlivening signs of the presence of active, energetic,
intelligent, prosperous, practical nineteenth-century populations.  The people don't dream,
they work. The happy result is manifest all around in the substantial outside aspect of things,
and the suggestions of wholesome life and comfort that everywhere appear.

Quincy is a notable example--a brisk, handsome, well-ordered city; and now, as formerly, interested
in art, letters, and other high things.

But Marion City is an exception.  Marion City has gone backwards in a most unaccountable way.
This metropolis promised so well that the projectors tacked 'city' to its name in the very
beginning, with full confidence; but it was bad prophecy. When I first saw Marion City, thirty-five
years ago, it contained one street, and nearly or quite six houses. It contains but one house
now, and this one, in a state of ruin, is getting ready to follow the former five into the
river. Doubtless Marion City was too near to Quincy.  It had another disadvantage:  it was
situated in a flat mud bottom, below high-water mark, whereas Quincy stands high up on the
slope of a hill.

In the beginning Quincy had the aspect and ways of a model New England town: and these she
has yet:  broad, clean streets, trim, neat dwellings and lawns, fine mansions, stately blocks
of commercial buildings. And there are ample fair-grounds, a well kept park, and many attractive
drives; library, reading-rooms, a couple of colleges, some handsome and costly churches, and
a grand court-house, with grounds which occupy a square.  The population of the city is thirty
thousand. There are some large factories here, and manufacturing, of many sorts, is done on
a great scale.

La Grange and Canton are growing towns, but I missed Alexandria; was told it was under water,
but would come up to blow in the summer.

Keokuk was easily recognizable.  I lived there in 1857--an extraordinary year there in real-estate
matters.  The 'boom' was something wonderful. Everybody bought, everybody sold--except widows
and preachers; they always hold on; and when the tide ebbs, they get left. Anything in the
semblance of a town lot, no matter how situated, was salable, and at a figure which would still
have been high if the ground had been sodded with greenbacks.

The town has a population of fifteen thousand now, and is progressing with a healthy growth.
It was night, and we could not see details, for which we were sorry, for Keokuk has the reputation
of being a beautiful city. It was a pleasant one to live in long ago, and doubtless has advanced,
not retrograded, in that respect.

A mighty work which was in progress there in my day is finished now. This is the canal over
the Rapids.  It is eight miles long, three hundred feet wide, and is in no place less than
six feet deep. Its masonry is of the majestic kind which the War Department usually deals in,
and will endure like a Roman aqueduct. The work cost four or five millions.

After an hour or two spent with former friends, we started up the river again.  Keokuk, a long
time ago, was an occasional loafing-place of that erratic genius, Henry Clay Dean. I believe
I never saw him but once; but he was much talked of when I lived there.  This is what was said
of him--

He began life poor and without education.  But he educated himself--on the curbstones of Keokuk.
He would sit down on a curbstone with his book, careless or unconscious of the clatter of commerce
and the tramp of the passing crowds, and bury himself in his studies by the hour, never changing
his position except to draw in his knees now and then to let a dray pass unobstructed; and
when his book was finished, its contents, however abstruse, had been burnt into his memory,
and were his permanent possession. In this way he acquired a vast hoard of all sorts of learning,
and had it pigeon-holed in his head where he could put his intellectual hand on it whenever
it was wanted.

His clothes differed in no respect from a 'wharf-rat's,' except that they were raggeder, more
ill-assorted and inharmonious (and therefore more extravagantly picturesque), and several layers
dirtier. Nobody could infer the master-mind in the top of that edifice from the edifice itself.

He was an orator--by nature in the first place, and later by the training of experience and
practice.  When he was out on a canvass, his name was a lodestone which drew the farmers to
his stump from fifty miles around. His theme was always politics.  He used no notes, for a
volcano does not need notes.  In 1862, a son of Keokuk's late distinguished citizen, Mr. Claggett,
gave me this incident concerning Dean--

The war feeling was running high in Keokuk (in '61), and a great mass meeting was to be held
on a certain day in the new Athenaeum. A distinguished stranger was to address the house. After
the building had been packed to its utmost capacity with sweltering folk of both sexes, the
stage still remained vacant--the distinguished stranger had failed to connect. The crowd grew
impatient, and by and by indignant and rebellious. About this time a distressed manager discovered
Dean on a curb-stone, explained the dilemma to him, took his book away from him, rushed him
into the building the back way, and told him to make for the stage and save his country.

Presently a sudden silence fell upon the grumbling audience, and everybody's eyes sought a
single point--the wide, empty, carpetless stage.  A figure appeared there whose aspect was
familiar to hardly a dozen persons present. It was the scarecrow Dean--in foxy shoes, down
at the heels; socks of odd colors, also 'down;' damaged trousers, relics of antiquity, and
a world too short, exposing some inches of naked ankle; an unbuttoned vest, also too short,
and exposing a zone of soiled and wrinkled linen between it and the waistband; shirt bosom
open; long black handkerchief, wound round and round the neck like a bandage; bob- tailed blue
coat, reaching down to the small of the back, with sleeves which left four inches of forearm
unprotected; small, stiff-brimmed soldier-cap hung on a corner of the bump of--whichever bump
it was. This figure moved gravely out upon the stage and, with sedate and measured step, down
to the front, where it paused, and dreamily inspected the house, saying no word. The silence
of surprise held its own for a moment, then was broken by a just audible ripple of merriment
which swept the sea of faces like the wash of a wave.  The figure remained as before, thoughtfully
inspecting. Another wave started-- laughter, this time.  It was followed by another, then a
third--this last one boisterous.

And now the stranger stepped back one pace, took off his soldier-cap, tossed it into the wing,
and began to speak, with deliberation, nobody listening, everybody laughing and whispering.
The speaker talked on unembarrassed, and presently delivered a shot which went home, and silence
and attention resulted. He followed it quick and fast, with other telling things; warmed to
his work and began to pour his words out, instead of dripping them; grew hotter and hotter,
and fell to discharging lightnings and thunder--and now the house began to break into applause,
to which the speaker gave no heed, but went hammering straight on; unwound his black bandage
and cast it away, still thundering; presently discarded the bob tailed coat and flung it aside,
firing up higher and higher all the time; finally flung the vest after the coat; and then for
an untimed period stood there, like another Vesuvius, spouting smoke and flame, lava and ashes,
raining pumice-stone and cinders, shaking the moral earth with intellectual crash upon crash,
explosion upon explosion, while the mad multitude stood upon their feet in a solid body, answering
back with a ceaseless hurricane of cheers, through a thrashing snowstorm of waving handkerchiefs.

'When Dean came,' said Claggett, 'the people thought he was an escaped lunatic; but when he
went, they thought he was an escaped archangel.'

Burlington, home of the sparkling Burdette, is another hill city; and also a beautiful one;
unquestionably so; a fine and flourishing city, with a population of twenty-five thousand,
and belted with busy factories of nearly every imaginable description.  It was a very sober
city, too--for the moment--for a most sobering bill was pending; a bill to forbid the manufacture,
exportation, importation, purchase, sale, borrowing, lending, stealing, drinking, smelling,
or possession, by conquest, inheritance, intent, accident, or otherwise, in the State of Iowa,
of each and every deleterious beverage known to the human race, except water. This measure
was approved by all the rational people in the State; but not by the bench of Judges.

Burlington has the progressive modern city's full equipment of devices for right and intelligent
government; including a paid fire department, a thing which the great city of New Orleans is
without, but still employs that relic of antiquity, the independent system.

In Burlington, as in all these Upper-River towns, one breathes a go-ahead atmosphere which
tastes good in the nostrils. An opera-house has lately been built there which is in strong
contrast with the shabby dens which usually do duty as theaters in cities of Burlington's size.

We had not time to go ashore in Muscatine, but had a daylight view of it from the boat.  I
lived there awhile, many years ago, but the place, now, had a rather unfamiliar look; so I
suppose it has clear outgrown the town which I used to know. In fact, I know it has; for I
remember it as a small place--which it isn't now.  But I remember it best for a lunatic who
caught me out in the fields, one Sunday, and extracted a butcher-knife from his boot and proposed
to carve me up with it, unless I acknowledged him to be the only son of the Devil. I tried
to compromise on an acknowledgment that he was the only member of the family I had met; but
that did not satisfy him; he wouldn't have any half-measures; I must say he was the sole and
only son of the Devil--he whetted his knife on his boot. It did not seem worth while to make
trouble about a little thing like that; so I swung round to his view of the matter and saved
my skin whole.  Shortly afterward, he went to visit his father; and as he has not turned up
since, I trust he is there yet.

And I remember Muscatine--still more pleasantly--for its summer sunsets. I have never seen
any, on either side of the ocean, that equaled them. They used the broad smooth river as a
canvas, and painted on it every imaginable dream of color, from the mottled daintinesses and
delicacies of the opal, all the way up, through cumulative intensities, to blinding purple
and crimson conflagrations which were enchanting to the eye, but sharply tried it at the same
time.  All the Upper Mississippi region has these extraordinary sunsets as a familiar spectacle.
It is the true Sunset Land:  I am sure no other country can show so good a right to the name.
The sunrises are also said to be exceedingly fine. I do not know.

Chapter 58 On the Upper River

THE big towns drop in, thick and fast, now:  and between stretch processions of thrifty farms,
not desolate solitude.  Hour by hour, the boat plows deeper and deeper into the great and populous
North-west; and with each successive section of it which is revealed, one's surprise and respect
gather emphasis and increase. Such a people, and such achievements as theirs, compel homage.
This is an independent race who think for themselves, and who are competent to do it, because
they are educated and enlightened; they read, they keep abreast of the best and newest thought,
they fortify every weak place in their land with a school, a college, a library, and a newspaper;
and they live under law. Solicitude for the future of a race like this is not in order.

This region is new; so new that it may be said to be still in its babyhood. By what it has
accomplished while still teething, one may forecast what marvels it will do in the strength
of its maturity.  It is so new that the foreign tourist has not heard of it yet; and has not
visited it. For sixty years, the foreign tourist has steamed up and down the river between
St. Louis and New Orleans, and then gone home and written his book, believing he had seen all
of the river that was worth seeing or that had anything to see.  In not six of all these books
is there mention of these Upper River towns--for the reason that the five or six tourists who
penetrated this region did it before these towns were projected. The latest tourist of them
all (1878) made the same old regulation trip--he had not heard that there was anything north
of St. Louis.

Yet there was.  There was this amazing region, bristling with great towns, projected day before
yesterday, so to speak, and built next morning. A score of them number from fifteen hundred
to five thousand people. Then we have Muscatine, ten thousand; Winona, ten thousand; Moline,
ten thousand; Rock Island, twelve thousand; La Crosse, twelve thousand; Burlington, twenty-five
thousand; Dubuque, twenty-five thousand; Davenport, thirty thousand; St. Paul, fifty-eight
thousand, Minneapolis, sixty thousand and upward.

The foreign tourist has never heard of these; there is no note of them in his books.  They
have sprung up in the night, while he slept. So new is this region, that I, who am comparatively
young, am yet older than it is.  When I was born, St. Paul had a population of three persons,
Minneapolis had just a third as many. The then population of Minneapolis died two years ago;
and when he died he had seen himself undergo an increase, in forty years, of fifty-nine thousand
nine hundred and ninety-nine persons. He had a frog's fertility.

I must explain that the figures set down above, as the population of St. Paul and Minneapolis,
are several months old.  These towns are far larger now. In fact, I have just seen a newspaper
estimate which gives the former seventy-one thousand, and the latter seventy-eight thousand.
This book will not reach the public for six or seven months yet; none of the figures will be
worth much then.

We had a glimpse of Davenport, which is another beautiful city, crowning a hill--a phrase which
applies to all these towns; for they are all comely, all well built, clean, orderly, pleasant
to the eye, and cheering to the spirit; and they are all situated upon hills. Therefore we
will give that phrase a rest.  The Indians have a tradition that Marquette and Joliet camped
where Davenport now stands, in 1673. The next white man who camped there, did it about a hundred
and seventy years later--in 1834.  Davenport has gathered its thirty thousand people within
the past thirty years.  She sends more children to her schools now, than her whole population
numbered twenty-three years ago. She has the usual Upper River quota of factories, newspapers,
and institutions of learning; she has telephones, local telegraphs, an electric alarm, and
an admirable paid fire department, consisting of six hook and ladder companies, four steam
fire engines, and thirty churches.  Davenport is the official residence of two bishops--Episcopal
and Catholic.

Opposite Davenport is the flourishing town of Rock Island, which lies at the foot of the Upper
Rapids.  A great railroad bridge connects the two towns--one of the thirteen which fret the
Mississippi and the pilots, between St. Louis and St. Paul.

The charming island of Rock Island, three miles long and half a mile wide, belongs to the United
States, and the Government has turned it into a wonderful park, enhancing its natural attractions
by art, and threading its fine forests with many miles of drives. Near the center of the island
one catches glimpses, through the trees, of ten vast stone four-story buildings, each of which
covers an acre of ground.  These are the Government workshops; for the Rock Island establishment
is a national armory and arsenal.

We move up the river--always through enchanting scenery, there being no other kind on the Upper
Mississippi--and pass Moline, a center of vast manufacturing industries; and Clinton and Lyons,
great lumber centers; and presently reach Dubuque, which is situated in a rich mineral region.
The lead mines are very productive, and of wide extent. Dubuque has a great number of manufacturing
establishments; among them a plow factory which has for customers all Christendom in general.
At least so I was told by an agent of the concern who was on the boat.  He said--

'You show me any country under the sun where they really know how to plow, and if I don't show
you our mark on the plow they use, I'll eat that plow; and I won't ask for any Woostershyre
sauce to flavor it up with, either.'

All this part of the river is rich in Indian history and traditions. Black Hawk's was once
a puissant name hereabouts; as was Keokuk's, further down.  A few miles below Dubuque is the
Tete de Mort--Death's- head rock, or bluff--to the top of which the French drove a band of
Indians, in early times, and cooped them up there, with death for a certainty, and only the
manner of it matter of choice--to starve, or jump off and kill themselves. Black Hawk adopted
the ways of the white people, toward the end of his life; and when he died he was buried, near
Des Moines, in Christian fashion, modified by Indian custom; that is to say, clothed in a Christian
military uniform, and with a Christian cane in his hand, but deposited in the grave in a sitting
posture. Formerly, a horse had always been buried with a chief. The substitution of the cane
shows that Black Hawk's haughty nature was really humbled, and he expected to walk when he
got over.

We noticed that above Dubuque the water of the Mississippi was olive- green--rich and beautiful
and semi-transparent, with the sun on it. Of course the water was nowhere as clear or of as
fine a complexion as it is in some other seasons of the year; for now it was at flood stage,
and therefore dimmed and blurred by the mud manufactured from caving banks.

The majestic bluffs that overlook the river, along through this region, charm one with the
grace and variety of their forms, and the soft beauty of their adornment.  The steep verdant
slope, whose base is at the water's edge is topped by a lofty rampart of broken, turreted rocks,
which are exquisitely rich and mellow in color--mainly dark browns and dull greens, but splashed
with other tints. And then you have the shining river, winding here and there and yonder, its
sweep interrupted at intervals by clusters of wooded islands threaded by silver channels; and
you have glimpses of distant villages, asleep upon capes; and of stealthy rafts slipping along
in the shade of the forest walls; and of white steamers vanishing around remote points. And
it is all as tranquil and reposeful as dreamland, and has nothing this-worldly about it-- nothing
to hang a fret or a worry upon.

Until the unholy train comes tearing along--which it presently does, ripping the sacred solitude
to rags and tatters with its devil's warwhoop and the roar and thunder of its rushing wheels--and
straightway you are back in this world, and with one of its frets ready to hand for your entertainment:
for you remember that this is the very road whose stock always goes down after you buy it,
and always goes up again as soon as you sell it.  It makes me shudder to this day, to remember
that I once came near not getting rid of my stock at all. It must be an awful thing to have
a railroad left on your hands.

The locomotive is in sight from the deck of the steamboat almost the whole way from St. Louis
to St. Paul--eight hundred miles. These railroads have made havoc with the steamboat commerce.
The clerk of our boat was a steamboat clerk before these roads were built.  In that day the
influx of population was so great, and the freight business so heavy, that the boats were not
able to keep up with the demands made upon their carrying capacity; consequently the captains
were very independent and airy--pretty 'biggity,' as Uncle Remus would say.  The clerk nut-shelled
the contrast between the former time and the present, thus--

'Boat used to land--captain on hurricane roof--mighty stiff and straight--iron ramrod for a
spine--kid gloves, plug tile, hair parted behind--man on shore takes off hat and says--

'"Got twenty-eight tons of wheat, cap'n--be great favor if you can take them."

'Captain says--

'"'ll take two of them"--and don't even condescend to look at him.

'But nowadays the captain takes off his old slouch, and smiles all the way around to the back
of his ears, and gets off a bow which he hasn't got any ramrod to interfere with, and says--

'"Glad to see you, Smith, glad to see you--you're looking well--haven't seen you looking so
well for years--what you got for us?"

'"Nuth'n", says Smith; and keeps his hat on, and just turns his back and goes to talking with
somebody else.

'Oh, yes, eight years ago, the captain was on top; but it's Smith's turn now. Eight years ago
a boat used to go up the river with every stateroom full, and people piled five and six deep
on the cabin floor; and a solid deck-load of immigrants and harvesters down below, into the
bargain. To get a first-class stateroom, you'd got to prove sixteen quarterings of nobility
and four hundred years of descent, or be personally acquainted with the nigger that blacked
the captain's boots. But it's all changed now; plenty staterooms above, no harvesters below--there's
a patent self-binder now, and they don't have harvesters any more; they've gone where the woodbine
twineth--and they didn't go by steamboat, either; went by the train.'

Up in this region we met massed acres of lumber rafts coming down--but not floating leisurely
along, in the old-fashioned way, manned with joyous and reckless crews of fiddling, song-singing,
whiskey-drinking, breakdown-dancing rapscallions; no, the whole thing was shoved swiftly along
by a powerful stern-wheeler, modern fashion, and the small crews were quiet, orderly men, of
a sedate business aspect, with not a suggestion of romance about them anywhere.

Along here, somewhere, on a black night, we ran some exceedingly narrow and intricate island-chutes
by aid of the electric light. Behind was solid blackness--a crackless bank of it; ahead, a
narrow elbow of water, curving between dense walls of foliage that almost touched our bows
on both sides; and here every individual leaf, and every individual ripple stood out in its
natural color, and flooded with a glare as of noonday intensified. The effect was strange,
and fine, and very striking.

We passed Prairie du Chien, another of Father Marquette's camping- places; and after some hours
of progress through varied and beautiful scenery, reached La Crosse.  Here is a town of twelve
or thirteen thousand population, with electric lighted streets, and with blocks of buildings
which are stately enough, and also architecturally fine enough, to command respect in any city.
It is a choice town, and we made satisfactory use of the hour allowed us, in roaming it over,
though the weather was rainier than necessary.

Chapter 59 Legends and Scenery

WE added several passengers to our list, at La Crosse; among others an old gentleman who had
come to this north-western region with the early settlers, and was familiar with every part
of it. Pardonably proud of it, too.  He said--

'You'll find scenery between here and St. Paul that can give the Hudson points.  You'll have
the Queen's Bluff--seven hundred feet high, and just as imposing a spectacle as you can find
anywheres; and Trempeleau Island, which isn't like any other island in America, I believe,
for it is a gigantic mountain, with precipitous sides, and is full of Indian traditions, and
used to be full of rattlesnakes; if you catch the sun just right there, you will have a picture
that will stay with you.  And above Winona you'll have lovely prairies; and then come the Thousand
Islands, too beautiful for anything; green? why you never saw foliage so green, nor packed
so thick; it's like a thousand plush cushions afloat on a looking-glass--when the water 's
still; and then the monstrous bluffs on both sides of the river--ragged, rugged, dark-complected--just
the frame that's wanted; you always want a strong frame, you know, to throw up the nice points
of a delicate picture and make them stand out.'

The old gentleman also told us a touching Indian legend or two--but not very powerful ones.

After this excursion into history, he came back to the scenery, and described it, detail by
detail, from the Thousand Islands to St. Paul; naming its names with such facility, tripping
along his theme with such nimble and confident ease, slamming in a three-ton word, here and
there, with such a complacent air of 't isn't-anything,-I-can-do-it-any-time-I- want-to, and
letting off fine surprises of lurid eloquence at such judicious intervals, that I presently
began to suspect--

But no matter what I began to suspect.  Hear him--

