"Finally, a third cause of confusion was the civil organization of ancient states. When the
people began to apply themselves to agriculture, the formation of a rural calendar, requiring
a continued series of astronomical observations, it became necessary to appoint certain individuals
charged with the functions of watching the appearance and disappearance of certain stars, to
foretell the return of the inundation, of certain winds, of the rainy season, the proper time
to sow every kind of grain. These men, on account of their service, were exempt from common
labor, and the society provided for their maintenance. With this provision, and wholly employed
in their observations, they soon became acquainted with the great phenomena of nature, and
even learned to penetrate the secret of many of her operations. They discovered the movement
of the stars and planets, the coincidence of their phases and returns with the productions
of the earth and the action of vegetation; the medicinal and nutritive properties of plants
and fruits; the action of the elements, and their reciprocal affinities. Now, as there was
no other method of communicating the knowledge of these discoveries but the laborious one of
oral instruction, they transmitted it only to their relations and friends, it followed therefore
that all science and instruction were confined to a few families, who, arrogating it to themselves
as an exclusive privilege, assumed a professional distinction, a corporation spirit, fatal
to the public welfare. This continued succession of the same researches and the same labors,
hastened, it is true, the progress of knowledge; but by the mystery which accompanied it, the
people were daily plunged in deeper shades, and became more superstitious and more enslaved.
Seeing their fellow mortals produce certain phenomena, announce, as at pleasure, eclipses and
comets, heal diseases, and handle venomous serpents, they thought them in alliance with celestial
powers; and, to obtain the blessings and avert the evils which they expected from above, they
took them for mediators and interpreters; and thus became established in the bosom of every
state sacrilegious corporations of hypocritical and deceitful men, who centered all powers
in themselves; and the priests, being at once astronomers, theologians, naturalists, physicians,
magicians, interpreters of the gods, oracles of men, and rivals of kings, or their accomplices,
established, under the name of religion, an empire of mystery and a monopoly of instruction,
which to this day have ruined every nation. . . ."

Here the priests of all the groups interrupted the orator, and with loud cries accused him
of impiety, irreligion, blasphemy; and endeavored to cut short his discourse; but the legislator
observing that this was only an exposition of historical facts, which, if false or forged,
would be easily refuted; that hitherto the declaration of every opinion had been free, and
without this it would be impossible to discover the truth, the orator proceeded:

"Now, from all these causes, and from the continual associations of ill-assorted ideas, arose
a mass of disorders in theology, in morals, and in traditions; first, because the animals represented
the stars, the characters of the animals, their appetites, their sympathies, their aversions,
passed over to the gods, and were supposed to be their actions; thus, the god Ichneumon made
war against the god Crocodile; the god Wolf liked to eat the god Sheep; the god Ibis devoured
the god Serpent; and the deity became a strange, capricious, and ferocious being, whose idea
deranged the judgment of man, and corrupted his morals and his reason.

"Again, because in the spirit of their worship every family, every nation, took for its special
patron a star or a constellation, the affections or antipathies of the symbolic animal were
transferred to its sectaries; and the partisans of the god Dog were enemies to those of the
god Wolf;* those who adored the god Ox had an abhorrence to those who ate him; and religion
became the source of hatred and hostility,--the senseless cause of frenzy and superstition.

     * These are properly the words of Plutarch, who relates that
     those various worships were given by a king of Egypt to the
     different towns to disunite and enslave them, and these
     kings had been taken from the cast of priests.  See Isis and
     Osiris.

"Besides, the names of those animal-stars having, for this same reason of patronage, been conferred
on countries, nations, mountains, and rivers, these objects were taken for gods, and hence
followed a mixture of geographical, historical, and mythological beings, which confounded all
traditions.

"Finally, by the analogy of actions which were ascribed to them, the god-stars, having been
taken for men, for heroes, for kings, kings and heroes took in their turn the actions of gods
for models, and by imitation became warriors, conquerors, proud, lascivious, indolent, sanguinary;
and religion consecrated the crimes of despots, and perverted the principles of government."

IV. Fourth system. Worship of two Principles, or Dualism.

"In the mean time, the astronomical priests, enjoying peace and abundance in their temples,
made every day new progress in the sciences, and the system of the world unfolding gradually
to their view, they raised successively various hypotheses as to its agents and effects, which
became so many theological systems.

"The voyages of the maritime nations and the caravans of the nomads of Asia and Africa, having
given them a knowledge of the earth from the Fortunate Islands to Serica, and from the Baltic
to the sources of the Nile, the comparison of the phenomena of the various zones taught them
the rotundity of the earth, and gave birth to a new theory. Having remarked that all the operations
of nature during the annual period were reducible to two principal ones, that of producing
and that of destroying; that on the greater part of the globe these two operations were performed
in the intervals of the two equinoxes; that is to say, during the six months of summer every
thing was procreating and multiplying, and that during winter everything languished and almost
died; they supposed in Nature two contrary powers, which were in a continual state of contention
and exertion; and considering the celestial sphere in this view, they divided the images which
they figured upon it into two halves or hemispheres; so that the constellations which were
on the summer heaven formed a direct and superior empire; and those which were on the winter
heaven composed an antipode and inferior empire. Therefore, as the constellations of summer
accompanied the season of long, warm, and unclouded days, and that of fruits and harvests,
they were considered as the powers of light, fecundity, and creation; and, by a transition
from a physical to a moral sense, they became genii, angels of science, of beneficence, of
purity and virtue. And as the constellations of winter were connected with long nights and
polar fogs, they were the genii of darkness, of destruction, of death; and by transition, angels
of ignorance, of wickedness, of sin and vice. By this arrangement the heaven was divided into
two domains, two factions; and the analogy of human ideas already opened a vast field to the
errors of imagination; but the mistake and the illusion were determined, if not occasioned
by a particular circumstance. (Observe plate Astrological Heaven of the Ancients.)

"In the projection of the celestial sphere, as traced by the astronomical priests,* the zodiac
and the constellations, disposed in circular order, presented their halves in diametrical opposition;
the hemisphere of winter, antipode of that of summer, was adverse, contrary, opposed to it.
By a continual metaphor, these words acquired a moral sense; and the adverse genii, or angels,
became revolted enemies.** From that moment all the astronomical history of the constellations
was changed into a political history; the heavens became a human state, where things happened
as on the earth. Now, as the earthly states, the greater part despotic, had already their monarchs,
and as the sun was apparently the monarch of the skies, the summer hemisphere (empire of light)
and its constellations (a nation of white angels) had for king an enlightened God, a creator
intelligent and good. And as every rebel faction must have its chief, the heaven of winter,
the subterranean empire of darkness and woe, and its stars, a nation of black angels, giants
and demons, had for their chief a malignant genius, whose character was applied by different
people to the constellation which to them was the most remarkable. In Egypt it was at first
the Scorpion, first zodiacal sign after Libra, and for a long time chief of the winter signs
; then it was the Bear, or the polar Ass, called Typhon, that is to say, deluge,** on account
of the rains which deluge the earth during the dominion of that star. At a later period,***
in Persia,**** it was the Serpent, who, under the name of Abrimanes, formed the basis of the
system of Zoroaster; and it is the same, O Christians and Jews! that has become your serpent
of Eve (the celestial virgin,) and that of the cross; in both cases it is the emblem of Satan,
the enemy and great adversary of the Ancient of Days, sung by Daniel.

     * The ancient priests had three kinds of spheres, which it
     may be useful to make known to the reader.

     "We read in Eusebius," says Porphyry, "that Zoroaster was
     the first who, having fixed upon a cavern pleasantly
     situated in the mountains adjacent to Persia, formed the
     idea of consecrating it to Mithra (the sun) creator and
     father of all things: that is to say, having made in this
     cavern several geometrical divisions, representing the
     seasons and the elements, he imitated on a small scale the
     order and disposition of the universe by Mithra.  After
     Zoroaster, it became a custom to consecrate caverns for the
     celebration of mysteries: so that in like manner as temples
     were dedicated to the Gods, rural altars to heroes and
     terrestrial deities, etc., subterranean abodes to infernal
     deities, so caverns and grottoes were consecrated to the
     world, to the universe, and to the nymphs: and from hence
     Pythagoras and Plato borrowed the idea of calling the earth
     a cavern, a cave, de Antro Nympharum.

     Such was the first projection of the sphere in relief;
     though the Persians give the honor of the invention to
     Zoroaster, it is doubtless due to the Egyptians; for we may
     suppose from this projection being the most simple that it
     was the most ancient; the caverns of Thebes, full of similar
     pictures, tend to strengthen this opinion.

     The following was the second projection: "The prophets or
     hierophants," says Bishop Synnesius, "who had been initiated
     in the mysteries, do not permit the common workmen to form
     idols or images of the Gods; but they descend themselves
     into the sacred caves, where they have concealed coffers
     containing certain spheres upon which they construct those
     images secretly and without the knowledge of the people, who
     despise simple and natural things and wish for prodigies and
     fables."  (Syn. in Calvit.)  That is, the ancient priests
     had armillary spheres like ours; and this passage, which so
     well agrees with that of Chaeremon, gives us the key to all
     their theological astrology.

     Lastly, they had flat models of the nature of Plate V. with
     the difference that they were of a very complicated nature,
     having every fictitious division of decan and subdecan, with
     the hieroglyphic signs of their influence.  Kircher has
     given us a copy of one of them in his Egyptian Oedipus, and
     Gybelin a figured fragment in his book of the calendar
     (under the name of the Egyptian Zodiac).  The ancient
     Egyptians, says the astrologer Julius Firmicus, (Astron.
     lib. ii. and lib. iv., c. 16), divide each sign of the
     Zodiac into three sections; and each section was under the
     direction of an imaginary being whom they called decan or
     chief of ten; so that there were three decans a month, and
     thirty-six a year.  Now these decans, who were also called
     Gods (Theoi), regulated the destinies of mankind--and they
     were placed particularly in certain stars.  They afterwards
     imagined in every ten three other Gods, whom they called
     arbiters; so that there were nine for every month, and these
     were farther divided into an infinite number of powers.  The
     Persians and Indians made their spheres on similar plans;
     and if a picture thereof were to be drawn from the
     description given by Scaliger at the end of Manilius, we
     should find in it a complete explanation of their
     hieroglyphics, for every article forms one.

     ** If it was for this reason the Persians always wrote the
     name of Ahrimanes inverted thus: ['Ahrimanes' upside down
     and backwards].

     *** Typhon, pronounced Touphon by the Greeks, is precisely
     the touphan of the Arabs, which signifies deluge; and these
     deluges in mythology are nothing more than winter and the
     rains, or the overflowing of the Nile: as their pretended
     fires which are to destroy the world, are simply the summer
     season.  And it is for this reason that Aristotle (De
     Meteor, lib. I. c. xiv), says, that the winter of the great
     cyclic year is a deluge; and its summer a conflagration.
     "The Egyptians," says Porphyry, "employ every year a
     talisman in remembrance of the world: at the summer solstice
     they mark their houses, flocks and trees with red, supposing
     that on that day the whole world had been set on fire.  It
     was also at the same period that they celebrated the pyrric
     or fire dance."  And this illustrates the origin of
     purification by fire and by water; for having denominated
     the tropic of Cancer the gate of heaven, and the genial heat
     of celestial fire, and that of Capricorn the gate of deluge
     or of water, it was imagined that the spirit or souls who
     passed through these gates in their way to and from heaven,
     were roasted or bathed: hence the baptism of Mithra; and the
     passage through flames, observed throughout the East long
     before Moses.

     **** That is when the ram became the equinoctial sign, or
     rather when the alteration of the skies showed that it was
     no longer the bull.

