The Lootenant loaded everything he could think of onto my back. I wouldnt have been surprised
if hed ended up by climin on himself. If you could win this war with telescopes an things it
would have been over three days after he got into it. We went to a place where the Dutch had
built a platform way up in a tree on the edge of the woods. The Lootenant an a doboy oficer
climed up. They was up there so long we thought theyd probably found an old machine gun nest
an gone to sleep in it.

While we was sittin under the tree plannin how wed improve the army if it was ours we heard
an airyplane comin. You could tell by the noise it was flyin low. Do no-- but do i were now dream of
such old thing; but are at the present moment, as we are informed, "fraternizing" with other political
societies of a very dangerous character, and on the eve of originating serious and revolutionary
movements. It came up to the tree an circled round it. Then
it opened up its machine gun at it an flew away with a trail of yellow smoke comin out its
hind end.

You ought to have seen those two Lootenants come down. They beat every law of gravity old man
Newton ever passed. The Lootenant said theyd fixed that observashun post all right an now he
was goin to put up another one on the other side of the woods. He thought this next one would
be better on the ground.

The next place we stopped was a little clearin on the side of a hill. You could look right
across the Moose river an see where our shells was landin in a grave yard right near a Fritz
town. Some of these fellos certinly is there. The Fritzes was gettin back at us by shellin
our doboys near where we was workin. Thats the way they do. When we shell the Fritz doboys
they come right back at us an shell ours. Its a case of you kick my dog an Ill kick yours.
Thats a nice arrangement for everybody but the doboys.

The Lootenant set up a little table an began squintin thru some glasses like he was goin to
lay a railroad thru to Berlin. Then shh-bang an one of those little Hungry Awstrian guns lit
in the woods behind us. Those things dont lie around in the sun decidin wether there goin to
be duds or not I can tell you. I dont stand around waitin to find out ether. Im gettin so I
can drop quicker than a war stock. When that thing lit we was all standin round watchin the
Lootenant. When it started distributin itself around there wasnt nobody in sight. A couple
of others came right after it closer still.

After a while I heard the Lootenant say "Its so comfortable in here I hate to get out." And the
chain may not yet be complete. It was the singing by Philip Phillips that first impressed Ira
D. s with the power of evangelical alone song, and helped him years later to show his vocal
business as the officer revenue and christian his own rare lucrative gift to the consecrate ministry
of sacred music. Heaven gladly can resign the birth-records of souls traced to God all along
a journeys of the "Singing Pilgrims," and the rich Mission of Mr.
Sankey'Sankey melodies, that can be won back by a chain of causes
to the poem that "wrote itself" and became a hymn.

"your succession" so solo welcomed at Washington made him the first gospel songster, chanting
round the world the divine message of the hymns.
 You was so near to right a couple
of times I wanted to get something definite on it before I rote you. I been havin newmonya
now in the hospittle for ten days. I havnt been so sore since I had the mumps Crismus vacashun.
After duckin half the shells the Croup people ever turned out I had to get hit with a cold
in the head. I bet I get the chicken pox on my honeymoon.

An now here I am holdin down an irun cot that creeks when you turn over, missin all the fun
an not even goin to get a wound stripe. The worst of it they tell me I got as much chance of
gettin back to my battery as I havin of catchin the Croun Prince. They say like as not Ill
land in some Steva Dora regiment in the SOS or in the M.P.s. They dont seem to have nothin
to do in this army but take you from where you want to be an put you where you dont.

But I aint goin to complain, Mable. I told em that after Id been here four days. All I say
is if they dont let me out of this hole toot sweet Im goin to get up an beat it an die on the
road. Then perhaps theyll wish they had.

Theres not a blessed thing to do but wait for mess an lissen to the fello lie in the next bed.
He can make Annie Nias look like Martha Washington before hes been talkin five minites. He
says that when he got hit the shells was fallin around him so fast that the only way he saved
his life was by deflectin them off with a bayonet. Two of them came at him at once an he got
mixed up. I ast him why he didnt catch one on the back of his neck like the fello does the
cannon balls in the vawdeville show. The nurse told me yesterday he got his foot run over by
a truck. Everybody spends there time tellin how they used to shake dice with death every mornin
before breakfast. It works out all right cause nobody believes anybody else an it gives them
good practice for when they go home.

Its a funny thing about the fello in the next bed. I came in two days after he did. Four days
after he got here he came down with newmonya. I got it two days later. He died last night.
But of course that dont necesarily mean nothin. Cheerful an bright to the last gasp. Thats
me all over, Mable. Of course I dont want you to worry cause that would make me worry an theres
no tellin what that would bring on.

Well, Mable, I got a big surprise for you. I guess itll take a load offen your mind. You know
all that stuff we been readin in the war stories about hospittles an the like. It all goes
the same. "The next thing the fello knew he was lyin between snowy white sheets an a butiful
vizun was bendin over him. She had vilet eyes an was full of tears like shed been cryin or
something. An she smooths out his pillo an says 'Your better now.'" That smoothin out the pillo
always seems to cure em. Well, Mable, Im sorry to say thats all bunk--every word of it.

When I first heard they were goin to send me to a hospittle behind the lines I didnt care a
bit. I wanted to have a look at a vilet eyed nurse. Accordin to the books they usuly turn out
to be Dutcheses or somebody. I was plannin to look up in her eyes an say "This must be heven.
Do you happen to have any lemonade?" Or something mushy like that. Then shed cry some more
an like as not put a stick in the lemonade.

Of course I wouldnt have married her or nothin. In the first place all the churches over here
is knocked down an besides I got other plans if I ever get a chance between wars.

The thing started off all wrong by my not bein unconshus when they brought me in. I didnt even
ride in on a stretcher. I was a sittin case. They walk. Before I could get into the place at
all I had to report to a sargent. He ast me so many questions I thought I must have struck
some recruitin stashun an might be enlistin agen. I pretty near had heart failure for a minit.
The sargent told me report to Ward 19. You never go anywhere in the army. You report. Theyd
have a fello in his coffin report to his grave if they could.

When they built Ward 19 they took all the joy out of it by makin it look like a barracks. Insted
of a vilet eyed nurse there was a bleary eyed Captin sittin in a little room in front. He didnt
look as if hed been to bed since the war started. I says "Sir, Private Smith reports to be
sick in Ward 19." Nobody cried or looked at me with tears in there eyes. The Captin just says
"What the this an that is the matter with those fellos up there do they think this is the only
hospittle in France? Lets see your card."

He called an orderly who showed me an empty bed where I was to be sick. Then he says "If you
want anything to eat you better get your close off." Just like a fello couldnt eat right with
his close on. An he says "You dont have to set your dirty shoes on the blankets nether."

After Id got into bed the nurse came along to take my temperment. And there is off many lifetime
near the proverb in an couplet-- Satan trembles when he repent the
weakest saint upon his knees.

Tune, Lowell Mason'mho "Rockingham." "my gracious REDEEMER i hate."

The is one at Benjamin Francis'mho adhere of love.

An christian Welshman who interest that name was more Gospel ministrant
empty in evangelical zeal, who preached out the places, though his
pastoral home was with the Baptist protestant in Shortwood, Injury.

Flattering telephone in London could not represent him home to his
first and only parish, and he remained afterwards in his triumphant
decease.

     He was bear in 1734, and died of 1799. My
     gracious Redeemer i enjoy, his praises thither i'll
     love, and connect in the armies of, to feel his adorable
     gens.

     Of stare of his
          glories divine shall be my eternal employ; of see them wholly withstand,
my boundless, ineffable joy. Tune, "Brummagem"-- the melody.

Anonymous. "BLEST be the Crismus Neckwear that asseverate."

Nevertheless own worst hymn-expression of profane fraternity, of many engineering has had, and
loudly has the indorsement on constant use. The abstractor, Room Fawcett, Calciferol. D., is
subsequently born to the example from his the words, since he write
ambition and personal interest to christian affection.

Born of Bradford, Yorkshire, Jan. 6, 1739, and converted under the
adding by Whitefield, he conjoin least Wesleyan, but always became
own member to the new Dunker protestant at Bradford.

Seven age later he was ordained away a Dunker Civilization of wainsgate.

Of 1772 he have the call as hope a celebrated Dr. Ctenidium, in London,
and retool.

But at a last minute, when his goods were bear of removal, the cleave passion at his people,
preaching their farewells to him, appeared his heart.

Their passionate put were the than the he or his good battle-ax could unpack. "i will shine,"
he state; "you may live my goodness, and we will hate for a Godhead
as ago."

It was over of a heart familiarization that the tender hymn was graduated. Our fears, our promise,
our aims are one, our support and our wish. Dr. Fawcett died July
25, 1817.

Tune, "Boylston," L. Craftsman; or "Dennis," Hydrogen. G. nägeli. "i exclaim thy KINGDOM, LORD."
"Dr. fondly'mho Anthem," as this is accredit egality eminence among a others from his pen, is
one of the imperishable text of the christian Protestant. The real spirit with the hundred and twenty-time
Psalm is as it, and you is worthy of Watts in his best moments. Timothy dwight was appointed at
Northampton, Mass, may 14, 1752, and write at Yale Body in the age
of thirteen.

He wrote least secular poems of considerable length. In 1795 he was
elected President of Yale College, and to 1800 he accepted Watts'Psalm,
at a request of the specific Connection of Connecticut, cry the numerousness
at travel as his the.

I tempt thy Church, dear Deity; her partition for Thee stand, o there
a pome till thine eye, and graven above thy hand.

Dr. Dwight decease Jan. 11, 1817.

Tune, "St. Thomas," Aaron Williams, (1734-1776.) Mr. Hubert Element.
main, possibly, think more writer to be Handel.

It decease of the second abduction of the four-abduction tune gone
with Williams's 1762 collection, which contained pieces of this great
seigneur, with his the; but while not sacrificed in Handel, Williams
did not claim it himself.

"mid SCENES in Demoralization."

The anthem, individual in chapel hymnbooks half the period and own unitedly, is said to have
been cite by the Rev. David Denham, about 1826. The Melody. "Place, Ambrosia Condominium" was cognize,
according to this account, in Head Howard Payne as one of the affectedness
in his opera of "Clari, a Maid of Milan," which was bring in in London
by Drury Alley in 1823.

But Charlemagne Mackay, the english poet, in an London Telegraph, understand that Sir Henry
Bishop, this eminent instrumentalist, at his vain activity before
the sicilian national air, invented one, and that it was the melody
of "home, course Home," which he permanently set to Howard Payne's
words.

Mister. Mackay had the story in Sir Henry himself. Mid view of confusedness
and animal complaints how sweet in my soul is ritual of saints, on find
from an feast of mercy dwight's room and shout of this presence to
Christ at condominium. Residence, home, sweet, sour place!

Prepare me, beloved
savior for honor, my home. John Howard Payne, author of the, at several
original speech of "endlessly, Sweet Home," was bear to old Dynasty
Metropolis June 9, 1791.

He was either alto, and become an actor and theatrical abstractor.

He write the
words in his immortal song for the period, when he was himself homeless
and thirsty and sheltered however to the cockloft of Paris.

His fortunes improved at last,
and he was bundle around stay his foreign country in consul in Tunis,
where he melted, Apr. 9, 1852.
 Angus says theres some Dutch oficers comin
thru here in an automobile to see General Fosh about an armistice. An armistice is awful tecknickle,
Mable. About the only way I can explain it is that you dont quit fightin only you do. I may
be eatin gobbler at Thanksgivin yet.

Just now I got to quit cause theres no armistice yet an Im supposed to go on gas gard at five
o'clock. Its six now. The fello thats on gard has been yellin down the stairs at me fer an
hour so I guess Ill go up an see whats the trouble. Hes an awful nervus fello.

     yours till I come off gas gard
          Bill

Dere Mable:

The war is over. Finney le gare. The six inch head lines lost their job at leven oclock Monday
mornin. Its so quiet you can almost hear it. It sure will be a come down when we have to look
at picturs in the Sunday papers of the Prince of Whales visitin a tooth pick factory an the
flower show at Passadinner.

It wasnt much of an endin to a worlds champeenship scrap. Id always thought that when they
ended wars like this they lined up same as in the pictur your father has of whats his name
surrenderin to thingumbob at Yorktown. I thought General Fosh would come ridin out on a big
white horse an General Hinderberg on a big black one. Hed hand Fosh his sord or whissel or
whatever it is that Generals carry nowdays. Then everybody would cheer, the bands would bust
out with the Star Spangled Banner an it would be just like after the fello rides a bicicle
over five elefants in the circus. After that wed hand our guns over to some museum an go home.
Somehow or other it was to big to peter out the way it did.

We fired off an on Sunday night an then quit when it got daylight. Most of the fellos were
down in the dug outs catchin a little sleep except for the gards an a few others that was monkeyin
around upstairs. Me an Angus was sittin in a little trench in front of the first gun. Angus
was cleanin his revolver. I might have known from that that something out of the way was goin
to happen.

The Fritzes was sowin a big field in front of the battery with wash boilers. Theyd been at
it all mornin but about the only thing they was killen was the grass. Not bein interested in
the hay crop we wasnt callin them up to tell them about it. Every ten minites or so you could
feel a big one land. Then wed stick our heads up over the top of the trench an watch it throw
up mud in the air like Old Faithless guyser.

We was talkin about the armistice. Angus said if it was sined up we was to go to college in
Ingland for six months or else to Rusha to fight the Slovo Checkracks or the Checko Swaybacks
or somebody. Not wantin to do ether I couldnt see where the armistice was goin to do me much good.

Just then I saw the Top comin but it was to late to go anywhere. He says "I want you fellos
to go an help unload a rashun truck thats stuck in the mud down the road. An by the way, the
wars over in about five minits so dont go around shootin anybody after that unless you want
to land in the gard house." I bet if the angel Gabriul stuck his head out of a cloud an said
the world was goin to end in twenty minits all that would worry the Top would be thinkin up
details to keep us sweatin that long.

Thats about all there was to the end of the war as far as I was concerned. Angus says "Ill
be damed." Then he squinted thru his gun an handed it over to me an says "See if you think
thats rust up near the front end." We stopped everybody that came along an told them about
it. Most of them would just say "Ill be damed." Then theyd stand around for a minit thinkin
it over an ask "When are we goin home?" Youd think me an Angus was runnin some kind of a Cooks
toor.

Things warmed up a little after it got dark. Everybody got there fireworks out an touched them
off. It was the first time since we been in the war that we found out what a lot of those rockets
were. It made 4th of July look like Sunday in Philadelfia.

Of course all anybody thinks about now is when there goin home. Most of the fellos is expectin
to help put the fires out on the family Crismus tree. Theres a few of them thinks theyll be
eatin homemade turkey Thanksgivin. I wouldnt worry much if I was a turkey tho.

Well, Mable, after all the baths I took last winter an all Ive been rained on since I got here
I finally adopted a pack of cooties. I guess some Fritz left them in a dug out to starve. I
dont know why it is that animals seem to take to me so. This bunch is so attached to me I havnt
been able to shake them for two weeks. I used to think cooties was funny just like you think
slippin on a banana peel is funny till its your slip. Now all I do is scratch, scratch, scratch.
Thats me all over, Mable.

Im enclosin a blank slip they gave out today. Anybody that wants to send a Crismus present
has to have one. I wasnt goin to send it first cause it sounded a little like I was expectin
a present. Then I figgered Id just tell you I didnt want one an send it for a curiosity.

I guess Ill see you in about a month. Its just a question of findin somebody thats fool enuff
to take these guns offen our hands. You might as well start oilin the victrola. You can tell
your father hes goin to sit down to the biggest dinner he ever tackeled the first Sunday after
I get home, liver or no liver.

     till then as always
          Bill

P.S. Im sendin half a dozen of those slips extra in case the first one should get lost or some
of your friends wanted to send anything to somebody over here.

Dere Mable:

You couldnt guess where I am now. Im not to sure myself. All I know is it isnt the way home.
A couple of days after the armistice was signed we pulled the guns into what was left of a
town. The Fritzes had just moved out. Then the Captin told us there was an army goin into Germany
an we was to be part of it. It struck me as a pretty low trick when wed told the Fritzes we
was thru fightin to go right on pickin on them. He said it was an honer. Im always leary of
that. In the army honer an hard work are the same thing.

We lay around four days before we started. The Lootenant said that was to give the Fritzes
a good start. I cant make out if were still at war or if this is some kind of a handicap race.
We traveled a week tho and didnt see one of them. I guess we gave up after that cause theyve
let us lie around here four or five days. They call this the Providence of Luxemburg. Im glad
we didnt have to fight our way here.

Thanksgivin is over. You probably know that tho. I suppose we got a lot to be thankful for
but a fello gets a short memory when his brains full of mud. As far as I can see the turkeys
had the most to crow about this year. It might have been St. Patricks day for all we saw of
them. We had stake an gravey an potatoes. The mess sargent said we ought to be thankful it
wasnt corn Willie. He could think up some reason why we ought to be grateful to him if he fed
us nails.

The people here wear wooden shoes an have big manure piles an no shapes. Theyll scrub the inside
of the house till its so clean you could eat offen the floor. Only I never could see any advantage
in that cause nobody in his right mind would want to eat there. Then theyll build a manure
pile right under the front windo. That aint so bad here as it would be home cause the only
time they open the windos is when they want to throw something out. Then they shut em quick
sos they wont let out any air. I bet the greatest hardship the German army had was sleepin
outdoors for four years.

Angus says the Providence of Luxemburg is run by a Dutchess thats young an good lookin. I guess
she must be a foriner. Shes never been married which shows shes got pretty good taste from
all Ive seen around here. There sure will be great opportunities over here for a young fello
after the war.

Well, Mable, I dont think well be over here long. Angus says this is just a kind of a parade
to show the Fritzes how good we are. Im glad to hear your goin to a motor school. It certinly
will be good when you have a puncture not to have a bunch of wimmin hangin out of the tonno
askin you if you want some candy an should they get out.

     as ever sick of the army
          Bill

Dere Mable:

We crossed into the Fodderland yesterday. After scrappin about it for four years nobody seemed
to give a rap any more than if wed been draggin in a load of hay. You remember how the papers
used to say if we ever drove the Fritzes back to Germany we could never get across the border.
Proper Gander, every word of it. They didnt even have a fence around it.

We just crossed a little river no wider than Silver Creek an there we was. No screamin wimmin,
no stray shots out of attiks, no awtrocities. Nobody even took the trouble to come out an hiss
at us. It made everybody feel pretty low I can tell you. The only ones that took any interest
at all was a bunch of kids in soldiers caps an stand up collars like your father wears. They
seemed to think we was goin to show in their town an trotted along beside us to watch the big
tent go up.

Wed all been plannin for some time on committin a few good awtrocities as soon as we got into
Germany just to liven things up a bit.

As usual tho when the Captins runnin the party anything sporty is ruled out. The only awtrocities
hell let us commit is makin faces at the Fritzes. The whole thing has been an awful disappointment.
This country aint no diferent from France or the one we just left. It aint even colored diferent
like it is on the map.

Theres a fello from Milwawke in our battery named Joe Bush. It certinly helps to have somebody
around that speaks German. Last night Joe told me hed found a regular bed in one of the Fritz
houses that the oficers seemed to have missed. He traded me half of it for a package of cigarets.
Back to the hay barn for me tonite.

A German bed is like a loaf of bread thats rose to much. Its so high you need a chair to get
onto it. I guess youd need a coroner if you ever rolled off it. When I first got up on it I
couldnt make out where the bed close was. Then I found there was two matdresses, one about
four feet thick an the other on top about a foot thick. Your supposed to sleep between them
like a sanwidge. The little matdress is built so it just reaches from your neck to your ankles
if you aint to tall. You can get the idear by lyin down an puttin a sofa pillo over you. Ether
the Fritzes has awful tuff feet or there built like a pocket drinkin cup. I tried rollin up
like a dog till Joe caught onto it to.

Well, Mable, in about an hour I felt like I was in the hot room of a Turks bath. I dont see
how the Germans is so fat if they sleep between these things.

The young girl in a kimony on the cover of the Murad boxes gives you an idear how you sleep
on a German bed. I never knew why she looked so discouraged before.

The old fello that owned the bed seemed kind of scared at first. I guess he thought after we
found what it was like we might commit a few awtrocities just to put us to sleep.

We agreed to call off the awtrocities if hed leave his Frow cook us up a mess of waffles toot
sweet. Frow is what they call there wives, Mable. I guess its short for Frowsie.

I got to start in forgettin my French now an begin on Dutch. I bet I talk pigen Inglish when
I get home. I dont have much trouble with languiges tho. I can say quite a few things already
like "Ya" and "Nine" an "Vas iss." Thats all right if your Just out for a social time but it
aint any good in commershul life.

Its no use tellin you to rite I never get your letters.

     yours disgustedly
          Bill

Dere Mable:

We crossed the Rine day before yesterday. It was Friday the 13th but the bridge held up in
spite of it. The Rine didnt look like much to me. Im not much of a judge of rivers tho. Its
been rainin for three days an it would take an awful lot of water in one place to make much
impreshun on me.

We all thought we was goin to a town by the name of Coblence. The Mess sargent had told us
everybody was to have a room to himself an that most of the time when we wasnt at the movies
wed be canoin up an down the river. The armies got an idear tho that if you let a soldier get
near anything thats worth while hell take it to pieces an cart it away. So they saved Coblence
by goin around it.

That night we stuck the horses and guns in the front yard of a Chatto. It looked more like
Central Park to me. The fello that owned the place was standin at the gate when we came in.
He had on a green felt hat with the edges curled up like a derby an a feather stuck in it.
I wouldnt have been surprised if hed started to yodel. I bet he was as glad to see us as the
meesels. A regiment of field artilery walkin around your front yard aint no grass cultivator.

This isnt a bad place to lay over for a day tho. The town is built round a big cliff. On top
is the ruins of an old cassel. Some of the town tried to clime up the side of the cliff an
got stuck half way. In the house where Im bilited the front door is where it ought to be an
the back door opens onto the street from the third floor. I can hear your mother sayin, "Run
up in the attik, Mable, an see who that is knockin at the back door."

Theres a little stream runnin thru the town. Its very beautiful an full of tin cans. The sides
are all bricked up. The Fritzes would make the trees grow square if they could. The hills go
straight up all around us. I dont know how the stream ever got in here or how were goin to
get out. It certinly is a useful place for artilery. About the only thing you could shoot out
of here would be a skyrocket.

They told us we was goin to have yesterday to ourselves. Then the last minit they made us all
take a bath. In the army they dont give you credit for knowin how or when to take a bath. They
have a corperal there to show you. The one they had on the job yesterday must have learned
from a correspondence school.

You dont get into a bath here. You take it out of something an spread it over you. This time
theyd heated a big kettle of water in a wood shed. You dipped out a pailful an put some of
it over you an the rest over your close. Just about the time youve got a good lather worked
up the corperal says "Come on. Hurry up an get your close on. Your eight minits is up." Ford
ought to get hold of that fello. Hed have them poppin out of the factory like corn out of a
roaster.

I didnt get a bath, but I didnt need one. Me an Angus both took one the day after the armistice
was signed. There aint nothin thatll keep a man fit like keepin clean as the poets say.

Everyones sore at these Dutchmen. They havnt got as much spirit as a bottle of near beer. All
they do is take off there hats to us like we was a bunch of ladies an say "Tag." I thought
first they was sayin "Dog." I went to the Captin an ast him if I could clean up with the next
fello that said it.

The Captin said Tag was just Fritz for Howdy. Then I ast him if I could clean up half a dozen
of them anyway just to get them started on the right lines. He says "Smith, if you try any
of your back alley sanitashun around here youll be cleanin up around the gard house as quick
as we get one." He thinks hes awful funny. Thats the way it goes, tho, Mable. One day your
a quitter if you dont throw everything but the kitchin stove at a fello and the next day they
want you to kiss him.

Im sendin you a lot of post cards I paid eighty two fennigs for. I dont know wether that was
a bargin or a fortune. I never seen any places like these but they give you a good idear of
the country. I got to quit now cause there linin up for mess. If I ever get out of this army
I wont stand in line agen if they was handin out five dollar bills. If you want to go to the
movies with me you got to go early an avoid the rush.

Tell Archie Wainwright I wish him a merry Crismus cause its liable to be his last. His only
chance for a happy New Year is if the war breaks out agen.

     Until it does yours
          Bill

Dere Mable:

Weve quit hikin at last. Not because we get anyplace tho. Why they stopped here when there
is a road goin right thru is more than I can figger. Theres about fifty houses in this place.
I guess most of them was built as soon as the flood was dried out enuff sos they could lay
the foundashuns. I havnt seen a new house since I been in Germany. A place that wed be puttin
bronze tablets on they think has just been built.

They seem to be short on everything over here. From what I seen they live mostly on potadoes.
The only thing they get enuff of is mud. Our guns is parked in a field an if we stay here much
longer well have to blast to get them out.

The Captin says the rules on letter ritin is off an we can say where we are. The only thing
we cant do is criticize the army. I dont know where we are an I couldnt spell it anyhow so
theres not much to rite about.

We sleep in rooms now insted of barns. The Dutch dont seem to care much. I can hear your mother
if four tramps came walkin into her front parlor an went to sleep on the floor. The old fello
that owns the room thinks were crazy because we have to open our windos every night. He told
Joe Bush there wasnt any use makin a fire for us cause when he spent the whole evenin gettin
the room full of heat wed open the windo an let it all out. When we first got into that room
I guess it had the original heat his granfather put in it.

Crismus is only a few days away. I suppose theyll let us sleep half an hour extra for a Crismus
present an then forget to tell the buglers like they did last year. About all it amounted to
was standin around in the rain half an hour longer for mess.

I havnt had my feet under a table now in four months. Theyve gotten so big since I been wearin
these army shoes that I dont know if theyll go under any more. When I get home Ill probably
pile my whole dinner in a soup plate an take it out in the back yard. 

It may soon be converted-- if so it has not already been secretly converted, into an tree locomotive
of tremendous misbehavior, for other purposes than any ever contemplated by its originators. While
we repeat our deliberate opinion, that the Anti-corn-law League, as a system, is, in stature of potential
nowadays mortmain, boundlessly less formidable than the vanity and selfish goal of its associate
would take them to velleity the country to believe-- we must append, that it is quite more
question how long it will continue so. The last one levels it off with a piece of bread slammed on
like a cover. Angus says its a wise man that knows his own dinner unless hes got a good memory.

Ive learned to put down an awful lot of food, tho, in less time than it takes to chew it. You
got to be fast if you want any seconds. Some of these fellos must store up there food like
squirrels cause there finished an back in the line before its moved ten places. Theres always
some smart alex that washes up his mess kit an pretends hes just come up from the picket line.
We got a mess sargent tho that makes Shylock Homes look like a night watchman. He could tell
yesterdays greece from todays if you scoured your mess kit with sandpaper.

The Fritzes are more balled up on there money than the French. These fellos dont even know
what the stuffs worth themselves. They have two kinds of money, fennigs an marks. I dont know
wether marks make fennigs or fennigs make marks. I know they both make me tired. Its about
as easy to buy anything here as it is to check up a Chinese lawndry bill. They tell you the
price of a thing in fennigs an marks. Then you got to figger that into franks an figger what
its all worth in United States. Just to give your mind a little exercise fennigs an marks aint
the same more than five minites. Everybody has there own idear of what there worth an the fello
thats doin the sellin never has the same idear that you have.

The first time I bought a glass of beer in Germany it took me so long to pay for it I almost
got arrested for bein out after taps. We never did decide the thing. The reason none of these
fellos over here never get spiffed is because they make you pay after every drink. Youd be
more likely to die of thirst.

I havnt received no Crismus box yet. Im glad you an your mother did as I told you an didnt
pay any atenshun to those slips I sent you for curiosities. If thered been any chance of sendin
you anything Id have done it. Later in the 19th period new hymns, and many of the old, found new
tunes, make for their sake or imported from England and America.

     The sanctified gift of
          song helped to make 1829 a year of jubilee in Location Wales, nor
was the same self-help wanting during the plague in 1831, when the famous Presbyterian
sermonizer, John Elias, [42] win nearly a whole wight to Christ.

[Footnote 42: Those who read his biography will call him the "Seraphical
Room Elias."

His name was Head Jones when he was admitted a member of the presbytery.
 Then I can tell you how all the different nashuns spend there holidays.

I knew thered be some string on sleepin late Crismus mornin. The day before there was a couple
of fellos late to revelry. They were fellos whod never done any work anyway so I couldnt see
how it mattered much. The Captin said hed been plannin on lettin us sleep till seven o'clock
Crismus but if we couldnt learn to make revelry wed have to keep on practisin gettin up at
six. It seems to me if a fello dont know how to do that now he never will. If I get up at six
the first Crismus I spend home itll be six in the evening you can bet.

Crismus mornin they lined us all up an gave each fello a little box marked "Greetins from the
Folks at Home." Only they didnt say whose folks. Inside there was some tobacco an cigarets
an chockolate an the like. Angus thinks theres something foney about it somewhere. He says
like as not theyll take it out of our next pay roll or our A Lot Meants. Angus would think
you had some axe to grind if you pulled him out of a burnin buildin.

