    "13.  Should either of the above-mentioned Executors die before the
    completion of the above year and a half from the date of the Reading
    of my Will or before the Conditions rehearsed in Letter C the
    remaining Executor shall have all and several the Rights and Duties
    entrusted by my Will to both.  And if both Executors should die then
    the matter of interpretation and execution of all matters in
    connection with this my Last Will shall rest with the Lord Chancellor
    of England for the time being or with whomsoever he may appoint for
    the purpose.

    "'This my Last Will is given by me on the first day of January in the
    year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven.

                                                           "'ROGER MELTON.

    "We Andrew Rossiter and John Colson here in the presence of each
    other and of the Testator have seen the Testator Roger Melton sign
    and seal this document.  In witness thereof we hereby set our names

    "'ANDREW ROSSITER clerk of 9 Primrose Avenue London W.C.

    "'JOHN COLSON caretaker of 176 Lincoln's Inn Fields and Verger of St.
    Tabitha's Church Clerkenwell London.'"

When Mr. Trent had finished the reading he put all the papers together, and tied them up in
a bundle again with the red tape.  Holding the bundle in his hand, he stood up, saying as he
did so:

"That is all, gentlemen, unless any of you wish to ask me any questions; in which case I shall
answer, of course, to the best of my power.  I shall ask you, Sir Colin, to remain with me,
as we have to deal with some matters, or to arrange a time when we may meet to do so.  And
you also, Mr. Sent Leger, as there is this letter to submit to you.  It is necessary that you
should open it in the presence of the executors, but there is no necessity that anyone else
should be present."

The first to speak was my father.  Of course, as a county gentleman of position and estate,
who is sometimes asked to take the chair at Sessions--of course, when there is not anyone with
a title present--he found himself under the duty of expressing himself first.  Old MacKelpie
has superior rank; but this was a family affair, in which my father is Head of the House, whilst
old MacKelpie is only an outsider brought into it--and then only to the distaff side, by the
wife of a younger brother of the man who married into our family.  Father spoke with the same
look on his face as when he asks important questions of witnesses at Quarter Sessions.

"I should like some points elucidated."  The attorney bowed (he gets his 120 thou', any way,
so he can afford to be oily--suave, I suppose he would call it); so father looked at a slip
of paper in his hand and asked:

"How much is the amount of the whole estate?"

The attorney answered quickly, and I thought rather rudely.  He was red in the face, and didn't
bow this time; I suppose a man of his class hasn't more than a very limited stock of manners:

"That, sir, I am not at liberty to tell you.  And I may say that I would not if I could."

"Is it a million?" said father again.  He was angry this time, and even redder than the old
attorney.  The attorney said in answer, very quietly this time:

"Ah, that's cross-examining.  Let me say, sir, that no one can know that until the accountants
to be appointed for the purpose have examined the affairs of the testator up to date."

Mr. Rupert St. Leger, who was looking all this time angrier than even the attorney or my father--though
at what he had to be angry about I can't imagine--struck his fist on the table and rose up
as if to speak, but as he caught sight of both old MacKelpie and the attorney he sat down again.
Mem.--Those three seem to agree too well.  I must keep a sharp eye on them.  I didn't think
of this part any more at the time, for father asked another question which interested me much:

"May I ask why the other matters of the Will are not shown to us?"  The attorney wiped his
spectacles carefully with a big silk bandanna handkerchief before he answered:

"Simply because each of the two letters marked 'B' and 'C' is enclosed with instructions regarding
their opening and the keeping secret of their contents.  I shall call your attention to the
fact that both envelopes are sealed, and that the testator and both witnesses have signed their
names across the flap of each envelope.  I shall read them.  The letter marked 'B,' directed
to 'Rupert Sent Leger,' is thus endorsed:

    "'This letter is to be given to Rupert Sent Leger by the Trustees and
    is to be opened by him in their presence.  He is to take such copy or
    make such notes as he may wish and is then to hand the letter with
    envelope to the Executors who are at once to read it, each of them
    being entitled to make copy or notes if desirous of so doing.  The
    letter is then to be replaced in its envelope and letter and envelope
    are to be placed in another envelope to be endorsed on outside as to
    its contents and to be signed across the flap by both the Executors
    and by the said Rupert Sent Leger.

                                          "'(Signed) ROGER MELTON 1/6/'06.

"The letter marked 'C,' directed to 'Edward Bingham Trent,' is thus endorsed:

    "'This letter directed to Edward Bingham Trent is to be kept by him
    unopened for a term of two years after the reading of my Last Will
    unless said period is earlier terminated by either the acceptance or
    refusal of Rupert Sent Leger to accept the conditions mentioned in my
    letter to him marked 'B' which he is to receive and read in the
    presence of my Executors at the same meeting as but subsequent to the
    Reading of the clauses (except those to be ultimately numbers ten and
    eleven) of my Last Will.  This letter contains instructions as to
    what both the Executors and the said Rupert Sent Leger are to do when
    such acceptance or refusal of the said Rupert Sent Leger has been
    made known, or if he omit or refuse to make any such acceptance or
    refusal, at the end of two years next after my decease.

    "'(Signed) ROGER MELTON 1/6/'06.'"

When the attorney had finished reading the last letter he put it carefully in his pocket. 
Then he took the other letter in his hand, and stood up.  "Mr. Rupert Sent Leger," he said,
"please to open this letter, and in such a way that all present may see that the memorandum
at top of the contents is given as--

    "'B.  To be read as clause ten of my Will.'"

St. Leger rolled up his sleeves and cuffs just as if he was going to perform some sort of prestidigitation--it
was very theatrical and ridiculous--then, his wrists being quite bare, he opened the envelope
and took out the letter.  We all saw it quite well.  It was folded with the first page outward,
and on the top was written a line just as the attorney said.  In obedience to a request from
the attorney, he laid both letter and envelope on the table in front of him.  The clerk then
rose up, and, after handing a piece of paper to the attorney, went back to his seat.  Mr. Trent,
having written something on the paper, asked us all who were present, even the clerk and the
shorthand man, to look at the memorandum on the letter and what was written on the envelope,
and to sign the paper, which ran:

"We the signatories of this paper hereby declare that we have seen the sealed letter marked
B and enclosed in the Will of Roger Melton opened in the presence of us all including Mr. Edward
Bingham Trent and Sir Colin Alexander MacKelpie and we declare that the paper therein contained
was headed 'B.  To be read as clause ten of my Will' and that there were no other contents
in the envelope.  In attestation of which we in the presence of each other append our signatures."

The attorney motioned to my father to begin.  Father is a cautious man, and he asked for a
magnifying-glass, which was shortly brought to him by a clerk for whom the clerk in the room
called.  Father examined the envelope all over very carefully, and also the memorandum at top
of the paper.  Then, without a word, he signed the paper.  Father is a just man. Then we all
signed.  The attorney folded the paper and put it in an envelope.  Before closing it he passed
it round, and we all saw that it had not been tampered with.  Father took it out and read it,
and then put it back.  Then the attorney asked us all to sign it across the flap, which we
did.  Then he put the sealing-wax on it and asked father to seal it with his own seal.  He
did so.  Then he and MacKelpie sealed it also with their own seals, Then he put it in another
envelope, which he sealed himself, and he and MacKelpie signed it across the flap.

Then father stood up, and so did I.  So did the two men--the clerk and the shorthand writer.
Father did not say a word till we got out into the street.  We walked along, and presently
we passed an open gate into the fields.  He turned back, saying to me:

"Come in here.  There is no one about, and we can be quiet.  I want to speak to you."  When
we sat down on a seat with none other near it, father said:

"You are a student of the law.  What does all that mean?"  I thought it a good occasion for
an epigram, so I said one word:

"Bilk!"

"H'm!" said father; "that is so far as you and I are concerned.  You with a beggarly ten thousand,
and I with twenty.  But what is, or will be, the effect of those secret trusts?"

"Oh, that," I said, "will, I dare say, be all right.  Uncle Roger evidently did not intend
the older generation to benefit too much by his death.  But he only gave Rupert St. Leger one
thousand pounds, whilst he gave me ten.  That looks as if he had more regard for the direct
line. Of course--"  Father interrupted me:

"But what was the meaning of a further sum?"

"I don't know, father.  There was evidently some condition which he was to fulfil; but he evidently
didn't expect that he would.  Why, otherwise, did he leave a second trust to Mr. Trent?"

"True!" said father.  Then he went on: "I wonder why he left those enormous sums to Trent and
old MacKelpie.  They seem out of all proportion as executors' fees, unless--"

"Unless what, father?"

"Unless the fortune he has left is an enormous one.  That is why I asked."

"And that," I laughed, "is why he refused to answer."

"Why, Ernest, it must run into big figures."

"Right-ho, father.  The death-duties will be annoying.  What a beastly swindle the death-duties
are!  Why, I shall suffer even on your own little estate . . . "

"That will do!" he said curtly.  Father is so ridiculously touchy.  One would think he expects
to live for ever.  Presently he spoke again:

"I wonder what are the conditions of that trust.  They are as important--almost--as the amount
of the bequest--whatever it is.  By the way, there seems to be no mention in the will of a
residuary legatee. Ernest, my boy, we may have to fight over that."

"How do you make that out, father?" I asked.  He had been very rude over the matter of the
death-duties of his own estate, though it is entailed and I must inherit.  So I determined
to let him see that I know a good deal more than he does--of law, at any rate.  "I fear that
when we come to look into it closely that dog won't fight.  In the first place, that may be
all arranged in the letter to St. Leger, which is a part of the Will.  And if that letter should
be inoperative by his refusal of the conditions (whatever they may be), then the letter to
the attorney begins to work.  What it is we don't know, and perhaps even he doesn't--I looked
at it as well as I could--and we law men are trained to observation.  But even if the instructions
mentioned as being in Letter C fail, then the corpus of the Will gives full power to Trent
to act just as he darn pleases.  He can give the whole thing to himself if he likes, and no
one can say a word.  In fact, he is himself the final court of appeal."

"H'm!" said father to himself.  "It is a queer kind of will, I take it, that can override the
Court of Chancery.  We shall perhaps have to try it before we are done with this!"  With that
he rose, and we walked home together--without saying another word.

My mother was very inquisitive about the whole thing--women always are. Father and I between
us told her all it was necessary for her to know.  I think we were both afraid that, woman-like,
she would make trouble for us by saying or doing something injudicious.  Indeed, she manifested
such hostility towards Rupert St. Leger that it is quite on the cards that she may try to injure
him in some way.  So when father said that he would have to go out shortly again, as he wished
to consult his solicitor, I jumped up and said I would go with him, as I, too, should take
advice as to how I stood in the matter.

The Contents of Letter marked "B" attached as an Integral Part to the Last Will of Roger Melton.

                                                          June 11, 1907.

    "This letter an integral part of my Last Will regards the entire
    residue of my estate beyond the specific bequests made in the body of
    my Will.  It is to appoint as Residuary Legatee of such Will--in case
    he may accept in due form the Conditions herein laid down--my dear
    Nephew Rupert Sent Leger only son of my sister Patience Melton now
    deceased by her marriage with Captain Rupert Sent Leger also now
    deceased.  On his acceptance of the Conditions and the fulfilment of
    the first of them the Entire residue of my estate after payments of
    all specific Legacies and of all my debts and other obligations is to
    become his absolute property to be dealt with or disposed of as he
    may desire.  The following are the conditions.

    "1.  He is to accept provisionally by letter addressed to my
    Executors a sum of nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand pounds
    sterling free of all Duties Taxes or other imposts.  This he will
    hold for a period of six months from the date of the Reading of my
    Last Will and have user of the accruements thereto calculated at the
    rate of ten per centum per annum which amount he shall under no
    circumstances be required to replace.  At the end of said six months
    he must express in writing directed to the Executors of my Will his
    acceptance or refusal of the other conditions herein to follow.  But
    if he may so choose he shall be free to declare in writing to the
    Executors within one week from the time of the Reading of the Will
    his wish to accept or to withdraw altogether from the responsibility
    of this Trust.  And he will from the moment of the delivery of such written
    withdrawal cease to have any right or interest whatsoever in the
    further disposition of my estate under this instrument.  Should such
    written withdrawal be received by my Executors they shall have
    possession of such residue of my estate as shall remain after the
    payment of the above sum of nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand
    pounds sterling and the payment of all Duties Taxes assessments or
    Imposts as may be entailed by law by its conveyance to the said
    Rupert Sent Leger and these my Executors shall hold the same for the
    further disposal of it according to the instructions given in the
    letter marked C and which is also an integral part of my Last Will
    and Testament.

    "2.  If at or before the expiration of the six months above-mentioned
    the said Rupert Sent Leger shall have accepted the further conditions
    herein stated, he is to have user of the entire income produced by
    such residue of my estate the said income being paid to him Quarterly
    on the usual Quarter Days by the aforesaid Executors to wit Major
    General Sir Colin Alexander MacKelpie Bart. and Edward Bingham Trent
    to be used by him in accordance with the terms and conditions
    hereinafter mentioned.

    "3.  The said Rupert Sent Leger is to reside for a period of at least
    six months to begin not later than three months from the reading of
    my Will in the Castle of Vissarion in the Land of the Blue Mountains.
    And if he fulfil the Conditions imposed on him and shall thereby
    become possessed of the residue of my estate he is to continue to
    reside there in part for a period of one year.  He is not to change
    his British Nationality except by a formal consent of the Privy
    Council of Great Britain.

    "At the end of a year and a half from the Reading of my Will he is to
    report in person to my Executors of the expenditure of amounts paid
    or due by him in the carrying out of the Trust and if they are
    satisfied that same are in general accord with the conditions named
    in above-mentioned letter marked C and which is an integral part of
    my Will they are to record their approval on such Will which can then
    go for final Probate and Taxation.  On the Completion of which the
    said Rupert Sent Leger shall become possessed absolutely and without
    further act or need of the entire residue of my estate.  In witness
    whereof, etc.

                                                  "(Signed) ROGER MELTON."

This document is attested by the witnesses to the Will on the same date.

    (Personal and Confidential.)

    MEMORANDA MADE BY EDWARD BINGHAM TRENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE WILL OF
    ROGER MELTON.

                                                        January 3, 1907.

    The interests and issues of all concerned in the Will and estate of
    the late Roger Melton of Openshaw Grange are so vast that in case any
    litigation should take place regarding the same, I, as the solicitor,
    having the carriage of the testator's wishes, think it well to make
    certain memoranda of events, conversations, etc., not covered by
    documentary evidence.  I make the first memorandum immediately after
    the event, whilst every detail of act and conversation is still fresh
    in my mind.  I shall also try to make such comments thereon as may
    serve to refresh my memory hereafter, and which in case of my death
    may perhaps afford as opinions contemporaneously recorded some
    guiding light to other or others who may later on have to continue
    and complete the tasks entrusted to me.

    I.

    CONCERNING THE READING OF THE WILL OF ROGER MELTON.

    When, beginning at 11 o'clock a.m. on this the forenoon of Thursday,
    the 3rd day of January, 1907, I opened the Will and read it in full,
    except the clauses contained in the letters marked "B" and "C"; there
    were present in addition to myself, the following:

    1.  Ernest Halbard Melton, J.P, nephew of the testator.

    2.  Ernest Roger Halbard Melton, son of the above.

    3.  Rupert Sent Leger, nephew of the testator.

    4.  Major-General Sir Colin Alexander MacKelpie, Bart., co-executor
    with myself of the Will.

    5.  Andrew Rossiter, my clerk, one of the witnesses of the testator's
    Will.

    6.  Alfred Nugent, stenographer (of Messrs. Castle's office, 21,
    Bream's Buildings, W.C.).

When the Will had been read, Mr. E. H. Melton asked the value of the estate left by the testator,
which query I did not feel empowered or otherwise able to answer; and a further query, as to
why those present were not shown the secret clauses of the Will.  I answered by reading the
instructions endorsed on the envelopes of the two letters marked "B" and "C," which were sufficiently
explanatory.

But, lest any question should hereafter arise as to the fact that the memoranda in letters
marked "B" and "C," which were to be read as clauses 10 and 11 of the Will, I caused Rupert
Sent Leger to open the envelope marked "B" in the presence of all in the room.  These all signed
a paper which I had already prepared, to the effect that they had seen the envelope opened,
and that the memorandum marked "B.  To be read as clause ten of my Will," was contained in
the envelope, of which it was to be the sole contents.  Mr. Ernest Halbard Melton, J.P., before
signing, carefully examined with a magnifying-glass, for which he had asked, both the envelope
and the heading of the memorandum enclosed in the letter. He was about to turn the folded paper
which was lying on the table over, by which he might have been able to read the matter of the
memorandum had he so desired.  I at once advised him that the memorandum he was to sign dealt
only with the heading of the page, and not with the matter.  He looked very angry, but said
nothing, and after a second scrutiny signed. I put the memorandum in an envelope, which we
all signed across the flap. Before signing, Mr Ernest Halbard Melton took out the paper and
verified it.  I then asked him to close it, which he did, and when the sealing-wax was on it
he sealed it with his own seal.  Sir Colin A. MacKelpie and I also appended our own seals.
I put the envelope in another, which I sealed with my own seal, and my co-executor and I signed
it across the flap and added the date.  I took charge of this.  When the others present had
taken their departure, my co-executor and I, together with Mr. Rupert Sent Leger, who had remained
at my request, went into my private room.

Here Mr. Rupert Sent Leger read the memorandum marked "B," which is to be read as clause 10
of the Will.  He is evidently a man of considerable nerve, for his face was quite impassive
as he read the document, which conveyed to him (subject to the conditions laid down) a fortune
which has no equal in amount in Europe, even, so far as I know, amongst the crowned heads.
When he had read it over a second time he stood up and said:

"I wish I had known my uncle better.  He must have had the heart of a king.  I never heard
of such generosity as he has shown me.  Mr. Trent, I see, from the conditions of this memorandum,
or codicil, or whatever it is, that I am to declare within a week as to whether I accept the
conditions imposed on me.  Now, I want you to tell me this: must I wait a week to declare?"
In answer, I told him that the testator's intention was manifestly to see that he had full
time to consider fully every point before making formal decision and declaration.  But, in
answer to the specific question, I could answer that he might make declaration when he would,
provided it was within, or rather not after, the week named.  I added:

"But I strongly advise you not to act hurriedly.  So enormous a sum is involved that you may
be sure that all possible efforts will be made by someone or other to dispossess you of your
inheritance, and it will be well that everything shall be done, not only in perfect order,
but with such manifest care and deliberation that there can be no question as to your intention."

"Thank you, sir," he answered; "I shall do as you shall kindly advise me in this as in other
things.  But I may tell you now--and you, too, my dear Sir Colin--that I not only accept my
Uncle Roger's conditions in this, but that when the time comes in the other matters I shall
accept every condition that he had in his mind--and that I may know of--in everything."  He
looked exceedingly in earnest, and it gave me much pleasure to see and hear him.  It was just
what a young man should do who had seen so generously treated.  As the time had now come, I
gave him the bulky letter addressed to him, marked "D" which I had in my safe.  As I fulfilled
my obligation in the matter, I said:

"You need not read the letter here.  You can take it away with you, and read it by yourself
at leisure.  It is your own property, without any obligation whatever attached to it.  By the
way, perhaps it would be well if you knew.  I have a copy sealed up in an envelope, and endorsed,
'To be opened if occasion should arise,' but not otherwise.  Will you see me to-morrow, or,
better still, dine with me alone here to-night?  I should like to have a talk with you, and
you may wish to ask me some questions." He answered me cordially.  I actually felt touched
by the way he said good-bye before he went away.  Sir Colin MacKelpie went with him, as Sent
Leger was to drop him at the Reform.

Letter from Roger Melton to Rupert Sent Leger, endorsed "D. re Rupert Sent Leger.  To be given
to him by Edward Bingham Trent if and as soon as he has declared (formally or informally) his
intention of accepting the conditions named in Letter B., forming Clause 10 in my Will.  R.
M., 1/1/'07.

"Mem.--Copy (sealed) left in custody of E. B. Trent, to be opened if necessary, as directed."

                                                          June 11, 1906.

    My Dear Nephew,

    When (if ever) you receive this you will know that (with the
    exception of some definite bequests) I have left to you, under
    certain conditions, the entire bulk of my fortune--a fortune so great
    that by its aid as a help, a man of courage and ability may carve out
    for himself a name and place in history.  The specific conditions
    contained in Clause 10 of my Will have to be observed, for such I
    deem to be of service to your own fortune; but herein I give my
    advice, which you are at liberty to follow or not as you will, and my
    wishes, which I shall try to explain fully and clearly, so that you
    may be in possession of my views in case you should desire to carry
    them out, or, at least, to so endeavour that the results I hope for
    may be ultimately achieved.  First let me explain--for your
    understanding and your guidance--that the power, or perhaps it had
    better be called the pressure, behind the accumulation of my fortune
    has been ambition.  In obedience to its compulsion, I toiled early
    and late until I had so arranged matters that, subject to broad
    supervision, my ideas could be carried out by men whom I had selected
    and tested, and not found wanting.  This was for years to the
    satisfaction, and ultimately to the accumulation by these men of
    fortune commensurate in some measure to their own worth and their
    importance to my designs.  Thus I had accumulated, whilst still a
    young man, a considerable fortune.  This I have for over forty years
    used sparingly as regards my personal needs, daringly with regard to
    speculative investments.  With the latter I took such very great
    care, studying the conditions surrounding them so thoroughly, that
    even now my schedule of bad debts or unsuccessful investments is
    almost a blank.  Perhaps by such means things flourished with me, and
    wealth piled in so fast that at times I could hardly use it to
    advantage.  This was all done as the forerunner of ambition, but I
    was over fifty years of age when the horizon of ambition itself
    opened up to me.  I speak thus freely, my dear Rupert, as when you
    read it I shall have passed away, and not ambition nor the fear of
    misunderstanding, nor even of scorn can touch me.  My ventures in
    commerce and finance covered not only the Far East, but every foot of
    the way to it, so that the Mediterranean and all its opening seas
    were familiar to me.  In my journeyings up and down the Adriatic I
    was always struck by the great beauty and seeming richness--native
    richness--of the Land of the Blue Mountains.  At last Chance took me
    into that delectable region.  When the "Balkan Struggle" of '90 was
    on, one of the great Voivodes came to me in secret to arrange a large
    loan for national purposes.  It was known in financial circles of
    both Europe and Asia that I took an active part in the haute
    politique of national treasuries, and the Voivode Vissarion came to
    me as to one able and willing to carry out his wishes.  After
    confidential pour-parlers, he explained to me that his nation was in
    the throes of a great crisis.  As you perhaps know, the gallant
    little Nation in the Land of the Blue Mountains has had a strange
    history.  For more than a thousand years--ever since its settlement
    after the disaster of Rossoro--it had maintained its national
    independence under several forms of Government.  At first it had a
    King whose successors became so despotic that they were dethroned.
    Then it was governed by its Voivodes, with the combining influence of
    a Vladika somewhat similar in power and function to the
    Prince-Bishops of Montenegro; afterwards by a Prince; or, as at
    present, by an irregular elective Council, influenced in a modified
    form by the Vladika, who was then supposed to exercise a purely
    spiritual function.  Such a Council in a small, poor nation did not
    have sufficient funds for armaments, which were not immediately and
    imperatively necessary; and therefore the Voivode Vissarion, who had
    vast estates in his own possession, and who was the present
    representative a family which of old had been leaders in the land,
    found it a duty to do on his own account that which the State could
    not do.  For security as to the loan which he wished to get, and
    which was indeed a vast one, he offered to sell me his whole estate
    if I would secure to him a right to repurchase it within a given time
    (a time which I may say has some time ago expired).  He made it a
    condition that the sale and agreement should remain a strict secret
    between us, as a widespread knowledge that his estate had changed
    hands would in all probability result in my death and his own at the
    hands of the mountaineers, who are beyond everything loyal, and were
    jealous to the last degree.  An attack by Turkey was feared, and new
    armaments were required; and the patriotic Voivode was sacrificing
    his own great fortune for the public good.  What a sacrifice this was
    he well knew, for in all discussions regarding a possible change in
    the Constitution of the Blue Mountains it was always taken for
    granted that if the principles of the Constitution should change to a
    more personal rule, his own family should be regarded as the Most
    Noble.  It had ever been on the side of freedom in olden time; before
    the establishment of the Council, or even during the rule of the
    Voivodes, the Vissarion had every now and again stood out against the
    King or challenged the Princedom.  The very name stood for freedom,
    for nationality, against foreign oppression; and the bold
    mountaineers were devoted to it, as in other free countries men
    follow the flag.

    Such loyalty was a power and a help in the land, for it knew danger
    in every form; and anything which aided the cohesion of its integers
    was a natural asset.  On every side other powers, great and small,
    pressed the land, anxious to acquire its suzerainty by any
    means--fraud or force.  Greece, Turkey, Austria, Russia, Italy,
    France, had all tried in vain.  Russia, often hurled back, was
    waiting an opportunity to attack.  Austria and Greece, although
    united by no common purpose or design, were ready to throw in their
    forces with whomsoever might seem most likely to be victor.  Other
    Balkan States, too, were not lacking in desire to add the little
    territory of the Blue Mountains to their more ample possessions.
    Albania, Dalmatia, Herzegovina, Servia, Bulgaria, looked with lustful
    eyes on the land, which was in itself a vast natural fortress, having
    close under its shelter perhaps the finest harbour between Gibraltar
    and the Dardanelles.

    But the fierce, hardy mountaineers were unconquerable.  For centuries
    they had fought, with a fervour and fury that nothing could withstand
    or abate, attacks on their independence.  Time after time, century
    after century, they had opposed with dauntless front invading armies
    sent against them.  This unquenchable fire of freedom had had its
    effect.  One and all, the great Powers knew that to conquer that
    little nation would be no mean task, but rather that of a tireless
    giant.  Over and over again had they fought with units against
    hundreds, never ceasing until they had either wiped out their foes
    entirely or seen them retreat across the frontier in diminished
    numbers.

    For many years past, however, the Land of the Blue Mountains had
    remained unassailable, for all the Powers and States had feared lest
    the others should unite against the one who should begin the attack.

    At the time I speak of there was a feeling throughout the Blue
    Mountains--and, indeed, elsewhere--that Turkey was preparing for a
    war of offence.  The objective of her attack was not known anywhere,
    but here there was evidence that the Turkish "Bureau of Spies" was in
    active exercise towards their sturdy little neighbour.  To prepare
    for this, the Voivode Peter Vissarion approached me in order to
    obtain the necessary "sinews of war."

    The situation was complicated by the fact that the Elective Council
    was at present largely held together by the old Greek Church, which
    was the religion of the people, and which had had since the beginning
    its destinies linked in a large degree with theirs.  Thus it was
    possible that if a war should break out, it might easily
    become--whatever might have been its cause or beginnings--a war of
    creeds.  This in the Balkans must be largely one of races, the end of
    which no mind could diagnose or even guess at.

    I had now for some time had knowledge of the country and its people,
    and had come to love them both.  The nobility of Vissarion's
    self-sacrifice at once appealed to me, and I felt that I, too, should
    like to have a hand in the upholding of such a land and such a
    people.  They both deserved freedom.  When Vissarion handed me the
    completed deed of sale I was going to tear it up; but he somehow
    recognized my intention, and forestalled it.  He held up his hand
    arrestingly as he said:

    "I recognize your purpose, and, believe me, I honour you for it from
    the very depths of my soul.  But, my friend, it must not be.  Our
    mountaineers are proud beyond belief.  Though they would allow
    me--who am one of themselves, and whose fathers have been in some way
    leaders and spokesmen amongst them for many centuries--to do all that
    is in my power to do--and what, each and all, they would be glad to
    do were the call to them--they would not accept aid from one outside
    themselves.  My good friend, they would resent it, and might show to
    you, who wish us all so well, active hostility, which might end in
    danger, or even death.  That was why, my friend, I asked to put a
    clause in our agreement, that I might have right to repurchase my
    estate, regarding which you would fain act so generously."

    Thus it is, my dear nephew Rupert, only son of my dear sister, that I
    hereby charge you solemnly as you value me--as you value yourself--as
    you value honour, that, should it ever become known that that noble
    Voivode, Peter Vissarion, imperilled himself for his country's good,
    and if it be of danger or evil repute to him that even for such a
    purpose he sold his heritage, you shall at once and to the knowledge
    of the mountaineers--though not necessarily to others--reconvey to
    him or his heirs the freehold that he was willing to part with--and
    that he has de facto parted with by the effluxion of the time
    during which his right of repurchase existed.  This is a secret trust
    and duty which is between thee and me alone in the first instance; a
    duty which I have undertaken on behalf of my heirs, and which must be
    carried out, at whatsoever cost may ensue.  You must not take it that
    it is from any mistrust of you or belief that you will fail that I
    have taken another measure to insure that this my cherished idea is
    borne out.  Indeed, it is that the law may, in case of need--for no
    man can know what may happen after his own hand be taken from the
    plough--be complied with, that I have in another letter written for
    the guidance of others, directed that in case of any failure to carry
    out this trust--death or other--the direction become a clause or
    codicil to my Will.  But in the meantime I wish that this be kept a
    secret between us two.  To show you the full extent of my confidence,
    let me here tell you that the letter alluded to above is marked "C,"
    and directed to my solicitor and co-executor, Edward Bingham Trent,
    which is finally to be regarded as clause eleven of my Will.  To
    which end he has my instructions and also a copy of this letter,
    which is, in case of need, and that only, to be opened, and is to be
    a guide to my wishes as to the carrying out by you of the conditions
    on which you inherit.

    And now, my dear nephew, let me change to another subject more dear
    to me--yourself.  When you read this I shall have passed away, so
    that I need not be hampered now by that reserve which I feel has
    grown upon me through a long and self-contained life.  Your mother
    was very dear to me.  As you know, she was twenty years younger than
    her youngest brother, who was two years younger than me.  So we were
    all young men when she was a baby, and, I need not say, a pet amongst
    us--almost like our own child to each of us, as well as our sister.
    You knew her sweetness and high quality, so I need say nothing of
    these; but I should like you to understand that she was very dear to
    me.  When she and your father came to know and love each other I was
    far away, opening up a new branch of business in the interior of
    China, and it was not for several months that I got home news.  When
    I first heard of him they had already been married.  I was delighted
    to find that they were very happy.  They needed nothing that I could
    give.  When he died so suddenly I tried to comfort her, and all I had
    was at her disposal, did she want it.  She was a proud woman--though
    not with me.  She had come to understand that, though I seemed cold
    and hard (and perhaps was so generally), I was not so to her.  But
    she would not have help of any kind.  When I pressed her, she told me
    that she had enough for your keep and education and her own
    sustenance for the time she must still live; that your father and she
    had agreed that you should be brought up to a healthy and strenuous
    life rather than to one of luxury; and she thought that it would be
    better for the development of your character that you should learn to
    be self-reliant and to be content with what your dear father had left
    you.  She had always been a wise and thoughtful girl, and now all her
    wisdom and thought were for you, your father's and her child.  When
    she spoke of you and your future, she said many things which I
    thought memorable.  One of them I remember to this day.  It was
    apropos of my saying that there is a danger of its own kind in
    extreme poverty.  A young man might know too much want.  She answered
    me: "True!  That is so!  But there is a danger that overrides it;"
    and after a time went on:

    "It is better not to know wants than not to know want!"  I tell you,
    boy, that is a great truth, and I hope you will remember it for
    yourself as well as a part of the wisdom of your mother.  And here
    let me say something else which is a sort of corollary of that wise
    utterance:

    I dare say you thought me very hard and unsympathetic that time I
    would not, as one of your trustees, agree to your transferring your
    little fortune to Miss MacKelpie.  I dare say you bear a grudge
    towards me about it up to this day.  Well, if you have any of that
    remaining, put it aside when you know the truth.  That request of
    yours was an unspeakable delight to me.  It was like your mother
    coming back from the dead.  That little letter of yours made me wish
    for the first time that I had a son--and that he should be like you.
    I fell into a sort of reverie, thinking if I were yet too old to
    marry, so that a son might be with me in my declining years--if such
    were to ever be for me.  But I concluded that this might not be.
    There was no woman whom I knew or had ever met with that I could love
    as your mother loved your father and as he loved her.  So I resigned
    myself to my fate.  I must go my lonely road on to the end.  And then
    came a ray of light into my darkness: there was you.  Though you
    might not feel like a son to me--I could not expect it when the
    memory of that sweet relationship was more worthily filled.  But I
    could feel like a father to you.  Nothing could prevent that or
    interfere with it, for I would keep it as my secret in the very holy
    of holies of my heart, where had been for thirty years the image of a
    sweet little child--your mother.  My boy, when in your future life
    you shall have happiness and honour and power, I hope you will
    sometimes give a thought to the lonely old man whose later years your
    very existence seemed to brighten.

    The thought of your mother recalled me to my duty.  I had undertaken
    for her a sacred task: to carry out her wishes regarding her son.  I
    knew how she would have acted.  It might--would--have been to her a
    struggle of inclination and duty; and duty would have won.  And so I
    carried out my duty, though I tell you it was a harsh and bitter task
    to me at the time.  But I may tell you that I have since been glad
    when I think of the result.  I tried, as you may perhaps remember, to
    carry out your wishes in another way, but your letter put the
    difficulty of doing so so clearly before me that I had to give it up.
    And let me tell you that that letter endeared you to me more than
    ever.

    I need not tell you that thenceforth I followed your life very
    closely.  When you ran away to sea, I used in secret every part of
    the mechanism of commerce to find out what had become of you.  Then,
    until you had reached your majority, I had a constant watch kept upon
    you--not to interfere with you in any way, but so that I might be
    able to find you should need arise.  When in due course I heard of
    your first act on coming of age I was satisfied.  I had to know of
    the carrying out of your original intention towards Janet Mac Kelpie,
    for the securities had to be transferred.

    From that time on I watched--of course through other eyes--your chief
    doings.  It would have been a pleasure to me to have been able to
    help in carrying out any hope or ambition of yours, but I realized
    that in the years intervening between your coming of age and the
    present moment you were fulfilling your ideas and ambitions in your
    own way, and, as I shall try to explain to you presently, my
    ambitions also.  You were of so adventurous a nature that even my own
    widely-spread machinery of acquiring information--what I may call my
    private "intelligence department"--was inadequate.  My machinery was
    fairly adequate for the East--in great part, at all events.  But you
    went North and South, and West also, and, in addition, you essayed
    realms where commerce and purely real affairs have no
    foothold--worlds of thought, of spiritual import, of psychic
    phenomena--speaking generally, of mysteries.  As now and again I was
    baffled in my inquiries, I had to enlarge my mechanism, and to this
    end started--not in my own name, of course--some new magazines
    devoted to certain branches of inquiry and adventure.  Should you
    ever care to know more of these things, Mr. Trent, in whose name the
    stock is left, will be delighted to give you all details.  Indeed,
    these stocks, like all else I have, shall be yours when the time
    comes, if you care to ask for them.  By means of The Journal of
    Adventure, The Magazine of Mystery, Occultism, Balloon and
    Aeroplane, The Submarine, Jungle and Pampas, The Ghost World,
    The Explorer, Forest and Island, Ocean and Creek, I was often
    kept informed when I should otherwise have been ignorant of your
    whereabouts and designs.  For instance, when you had disappeared into
    the Forest of the Incas, I got the first whisper of your strange
    adventures and discoveries in the buried cities of Eudori from a
    correspondent of The Journal of Adventure long before the details
    given in The Times of the rock-temple of the primeval savages,
    where only remained the little dragon serpents, whose giant ancestors
    were rudely sculptured on the sacrificial altar.  I well remember how
    I thrilled at even that meagre account of your going in alone into
    that veritable hell.  It was from Occultism that I learned how you
    had made a stay alone in the haunted catacombs of Elora, in the far
    recesses of the Himalayas, and of the fearful experiences which, when
    you came out shuddering and ghastly, overcame to almost epileptic
    fear those who had banded themselves together to go as far as the
    rock-cut approach to the hidden temple.

    All such things I read with rejoicing.  You were shaping yourself for
    a wider and loftier adventure, which would crown more worthily your
    matured manhood.  When I read of you in a description of Mihask, in
    Madagascar, and the devil-worship there rarely held, I felt I had
    only to wait for your home-coming in order to broach the enterprise I
    had so long contemplated.  This was what I read:

    "He is a man to whom no adventure is too wild or too daring.  His
    reckless bravery is a byword amongst many savage peoples and amongst
    many others not savages, whose fears are not of material things, but
    of the world of mysteries in and beyond the grave.  He dares not only
    wild animals and savage men; but has tackled African magic and Indian
    mysticism.  The Psychical Research Society has long exploited his
    deeds of valiance, and looked upon him as perhaps their most trusted
    agent or source of discovery.  He is in the very prime of life, of
    almost giant stature and strength, trained to the use of all arms of
    all countries, inured to every kind of hardship, subtle-minded and
    resourceful, understanding human nature from its elemental form up.
    To say that he is fearless would be inadequate.  In a word, he is a
    man whose strength and daring fit him for any enterprise of any kind.
    He would dare and do anything in the world or out of it, on the earth
    or under it, in the sea or--in the air, fearing nothing material or
    unseen, not man or ghost, nor God nor Devil."

    If you ever care to think of it, I carried that cutting in my
    pocket-book from that hour I read it till now.

    Remember, again, I say, that I never interfered in the slightest way
    in any of your adventures.  I wanted you to "dree your own weird," as
    the Scotch say; and I wanted to know of it--that was all.  Now, as I
    hold you fully equipped for greater enterprise, I want to set your
    feet on the road and to provide you with the most potent
    weapon--beyond personal qualities--for the winning of great honour--a
    gain, my dear nephew, which, I am right sure, does and will appeal to
    you as it has ever done to me.  I have worked for it for more than
    fifty years; but now that the time has come when the torch is
    slipping from my old hands, I look to you, my dearest kinsman, to
    lift it and carry it on.

    The little nation of the Blue Mountains has from the first appealed
    to me.  It is poor and proud and brave.  Its people are well worth
    winning, and I would advise you to throw in your lot with them.  You
    may find them hard to win, for when peoples, like individuals, are
    poor and proud, these qualities are apt to react on each other to an
    endless degree.  These men are untamable, and no one can ever succeed
    with them unless he is with them in all-in-all, and is a leader
    recognized.  But if you can win them they are loyal to death.  If you
    are ambitious--and I know you are--there may be a field for you in
    such a country.  With your qualifications, fortified by the fortune
    which I am happy enough to be able to leave you, you may dare much
    and go far.  Should I be alive when you return from your exploration
    in Northern South America, I may have the happiness of helping you to
    this or any other ambition, and I shall deem it a privilege to share
    it with you; but time is going on.  I am in my seventy-second year .
    . . the years of man are three-score and ten--I suppose you
    understand; I do . . . Let me point out this: For ambitious projects
    the great nationalities are impossible to a stranger--and in our own
    we are limited by loyalty (and common-sense).  It is only in a small
    nation that great ambitions can be achieved.  If you share my own
    views and wishes, the Blue Mountains is your ground.  I hoped at one
    time that I might yet become a Voivode--even a great one.  But age
    has dulled my personal ambitions as it has cramped my powers.  I no
    longer dream of such honour for myself, though I do look on it as a
    possibility for you if you care for it.  Through my Will you will
    have a great position and a great estate, and though you may have to
    yield up the latter in accordance with my wish, as already expressed
    in this letter, the very doing so will give you an even greater hold
    than this possession in the hearts of the mountaineers, should they
    ever come to know it.  Should it be that at the time you inherit from
    me the Voivode Vissarion should not be alive, it may serve or aid you
    to know that in such case you would be absolved from any conditions
    of mine, though I trust you would in that, as in all other matters,
    hold obligation enforced by your own honour as to my wishes.
    Therefore the matter stands thus: If Vissarion lives, you will
    relinquish the estates.  Should such not be the case, you will act as
    you believe that I would wish you to.  In either case the
    mountaineers should not know from you in any way of the secret
    contracts between Vissarion and myself.  Enlightenment of the many
    should (if ever) come from others than yourself.  And unless such
    take place, you would leave the estates without any quid pro quo
    whatever.  This you need not mind, for the fortune you will inherit
    will leave you free and able to purchase other estates in the Blue
    Mountains or elsewhere that you may select in the world.

    If others attack, attack them, and quicker and harder than they can,
    if such be a possibility.  Should it ever be that you inherit the
    Castle of Vissarion on the Spear of Ivan, remember that I had it
    secretly fortified and armed against attack.  There are not only
    massive grilles, but doors of chilled bronze where such be needed.
    My adherent Rooke, who has faithfully served me for nearly forty
    years, and has gone on my behalf on many perilous expeditions, will,
    I trust, serve you in the same way.  Treat him well for my sake, if
    not for your own.  I have left him provision for a life of ease; but
    he would rather take a part in dangerous enterprises.  He is silent
    as the grave and as bold as a lion.  He knows every detail of the
    fortification and of the secret means of defence.  A word in your
    ear--he was once a pirate.  He was then in his extreme youth, and
    long since changed his ways in this respect; but from this fact you
    can understand his nature.  You will find him useful should occasion
    ever arise.  Should you accept the conditions of my letter, you are
    to make the Blue Mountains--in part, at least--your home, living
    there a part of the year, if only for a week, as in England men of
    many estates share the time amongst them.  To this you are not bound,
    and no one shall have power to compel you or interfere with you.  I
    only express a hope.  But one thing I do more than hope--I desire, if
    you will honour my wishes, that, come what may, you are to keep your
    British nationality, unless by special arrangement with and consent
    of the Privy Council.  Such arrangement to be formally made by my
    friend, Edward Bingham Trent, or whomsoever he may appoint by deed or
    will to act in the matter, and made in such a way that no act save
    that alone of Parliament in all its estates, and endorsed by the
    King, may or can prevail against it.

    My last word to you is, Be bold and honest, and fear not.  Most
    things--even kingship--somewhere may now and again be won by the
    sword.  A brave heart and a strong arm may go far.  But whatever is
    so won cannot be held merely by the sword.  Justice alone can hold in
    the long run.  Where men trust they will follow, and the rank and
    file of people want to follow, not to lead.  If it be your fortune to
    lead, be bold.  Be wary, if you will; exercise any other faculties
    that may aid or guard.  Shrink from nothing.  Avoid nothing that is
    honourable in itself.  Take responsibility when such presents itself.
    What others shrink from, accept.  That is to be great in what world,
    little or big, you move.  Fear nothing, no matter of what kind danger
    may be or whence it come.  The only real way to meet danger is to
    despise it--except with your brains.  Meet it in the gate, not the
    hall.

    My kinsman, the name of my race and your own, worthily mingled in
    your own person, now rests with you!

Letter from Rupert Sent Leger, 32 Bodmin Street, Victoria, S.W., to Miss Janet MacKelpie, Croom,
Ross-shire.

                                                        January 3, 1907.

    MY DEAREST AUNT JANET,

    You will, I know, be rejoiced to hear of the great good-fortune which
    has come to me through the Will of Uncle Roger.  Perhaps Sir Colin
    will have written to you, as he is one of the executors, and there is
    a bequest to you, so I must not spoil his pleasure of telling you of
    that part himself.  Unfortunately, I am not free to speak fully of my
    own legacy yet, but I want you to know that at worst I am to receive
    an amount many times more than I ever dreamt of possessing through
    any possible stroke of fortune.  So soon as I can leave
    London--where, of course, I must remain until things are settled--I
    am coming up to Croom to see you, and I hope I shall by then be able
    to let you know so much that you will be able to guess at the
    extraordinary change that has come to my circumstances.  It is all
    like an impossible dream: there is nothing like it in the "Arabian
    Nights."  However, the details must wait, I am pledged to secrecy for
    the present.  And you must be pledged too.  You won't mind, dear,
    will you?  What I want to do at present is merely to tell you of my
    own good-fortune, and that I shall be going presently to live for a
    while at Vissarion.  Won't you come with me, Aunt Janet?  We shall
    talk more of this when I come to Croom; but I want you to keep the
    subject in your mind.

                                                               Your loving
                                                                   RUPERT.

From Rupert Sent Leger's Journal.

                                                        January 4, 1907.

    Things have been humming about me so fast that I have had hardly time
    to think.  But some of the things have been so important, and have so
    changed my entire outlook on life, that it may be well to keep some
    personal record of them.  I may some day want to remember some
    detail--perhaps the sequence of events, or something like that--and
    it may be useful.  It ought to be, if there is any justice in things,
    for it will be an awful swot to write it when I have so many things
    to think of now.  Aunt Janet, I suppose, will like to keep it locked
    up for me, as she does with all my journals and papers.  That is one
    good thing about Aunt Janet amongst many: she has no curiosity, or
    else she has some other quality which keeps her from prying as other
    women would.  It would seem that she has not so much as opened the
    cover of one of my journals ever in her life, and that she would not
    without my permission.  So this can in time go to her also.

    I dined last night with Mr. Trent, by his special desire.  The dinner
    was in his own rooms.  Dinner sent in from the hotel.  He would not
    have any waiters at all, but made them send in the dinner all at
    once, and we helped ourselves.  As we were quite alone, we could talk
    freely, and we got over a lot of ground while we were dining.  He
    began to tell me about Uncle Roger.  I was glad of that, for, of
    course, I wanted to know all I could of him, and the fact was I had
    seen very little of him.  Of course, when I was a small kid he was
    often in our house, for he was very fond of mother, and she of him.
    But I fancy that a small boy was rather a nuisance to him.  And then
    I was at school, and he was away in the East.  And then poor mother
    died while he was living in the Blue Mountains, and I never saw him
    again.  When I wrote to him about Aunt Janet he answered me very
    kindly but he was so very just in the matter that I got afraid of
    him.  And after that I ran away, and have been roaming ever since; so
    there was never a chance of our meeting.  But that letter of his has
    opened my eyes.  To think of him following me that way all over the
    world, waiting to hold out a helping hand if I should want it, I only
    wish I had known, or even suspected, the sort of man he was, and how
    he cared for me, and I would sometimes have come back to see him, if
    I had to come half round the world.  Well, all I can do now is to
    carry out his wishes; that will be my expiation for my neglect.  He
    knew what he wanted exactly, and I suppose I shall come in time to
    know it all and understand it, too.

    I was thinking something like this when Mr. Trent began to talk, so
    that all he said fitted exactly into my own thought.  The two men
    were evidently great friends--I should have gathered that, anyhow,
    from the Will--and the letters--so I was not surprised when Mr. Trent
    told me that they had been to school together, Uncle Roger being a
    senior when he was a junior; and had then and ever after shared each
    other's confidence.  Mr. Trent, I gathered, had from the very first
    been in love with my mother, even when she was a little girl; but he
    was poor and shy, and did not like to speak.  When he had made up his
    mind to do so, he found that she had by then met my father, and could
    not help seeing that they loved each other.  So he was silent.  He
    told me he had never said a word about it to anyone--not even to my
    Uncle Roger, though he knew from one thing and another, though he
    never spoke of it, that he would like it.  I could not help seeing
    that the dear old man regarded me in a sort of parental way--I have
    heard of such romantic attachments being transferred to the later
    generation.  I was not displeased with it; on the contrary, I liked
    him better for it.  I love my mother so much--I always think of her
    in the present--that I cannot think of her as dead.  There is a tie
    between anyone else who loved her and myself.  I tried to let Mr.
    Trent see that I liked him, and it pleased him so much that I could
    see his liking for me growing greater.  Before we parted he told me
    that he was going to give up business.  He must have understood how
    disappointed I was--for how could I ever get along at all without
    him?--for he said, as he laid a hand quite affectionately, I
    thought--on my shoulder:

    "I shall have one client, though, whose business I always hope to
    keep, and for whom I shall be always whilst I live glad to act--if he
    will have me."  I did not care to speak as I took his hand.  He
    squeezed mine, too, and said very earnestly:

    "I served your uncle's interests to the very best of my ability for
    nearly fifty years.  He had full confidence in me, and I was proud of
    his trust.  I can honestly say, Rupert--you won't mind me using that
    familiarity, will you?--that, though the interests which I guarded
    were so vast that without abusing my trust I could often have used my
    knowledge to my personal advantage, I never once, in little matters
    or big, abused that trust--no, not even rubbed the bloom off it.  And
    now that he has remembered me in his Will so generously that I need
    work no more, it will be a very genuine pleasure and pride to me to
    carry out as well as I can the wishes that I partly knew, and now
    realize more fully towards you, his nephew."

    In the long chat which we had, and which lasted till midnight, he
    told me many very interesting things about Uncle Roger.  When, in the
    course of conversation, he mentioned that the fortune Uncle Roger
    left must be well over a hundred millions, I was so surprised that I
    said out loud--I did not mean to ask a question:

    "How on earth could a man beginning with nothing realize such a
    gigantic fortune?"

    "By all honest ways," he answered, "and his clever human insight.  He
    knew one half of the world, and so kept abreast of all public and
    national movements that he knew the critical moment to advance money
    required.  He was always generous, and always on the side of freedom.
    There are nations at this moment only now entering on the
    consolidation of their liberty, who owe all to him, who knew when and
    how to help.  No wonder that in some lands they will drink to his
    memory on great occasions as they used to drink his health."

    "As you and I shall do now, sir!" I said, as I filled my glass and
    stood up.  We drank it in bumpers.  We did not say a word, either of
    us; but the old gentleman held out his hand, and I took it.  And so,
    holding hands, we drank in silence.  It made me feel quite choky; and
    I could see that he, too, was moved.

From E. B. Trent's Memoranda.

                                                        January 4, 1907.

    I asked Mr. Rupert Sent Leger to dine with me at my office alone, as
    I wished to have a chat with him.  To-morrow Sir Colin and I will
    have a formal meeting with him for the settlement of affairs, but I
    thought it best to have an informal talk with him alone first, as I
    wished to tell him certain matters which will make our meeting
    to-morrow more productive of utility, as he can now have more full
    understanding of the subjects which we have to discuss.  Sir Colin is
    all that can be in manhood, and I could wish no better colleague in
    the executorship of this phenomenal Will; but he has not had the
    privilege of a lifelong friendship with the testator as I have had.
    And as Rupert Sent Leger had to learn intimate details regarding his
    uncle, I could best make my confidences alone.  To-morrow we shall
    have plenty of formality.  I was delighted with Rupert.  He is just
    what I could have wished his mother's boy to be--or a son of my own
    to be, had I had the good-fortune to have been a father.  But this is
    not for me.  I remember long, long ago reading a passage in Lamb's
    Essays which hangs in my mind: "The children of Alice call Bartrum
    father."  Some of my old friends would laugh to see me write this,
    but these memoranda are for my eyes alone, and no one shall see them
    till after my death, unless by my own permission.  The boy takes some
    qualities after his father; he has a daring that is disturbing to an
    old dryasdust lawyer like me.  But somehow I like him more than I
    ever liked anyone--any man--in my life--more even than his uncle, my
    old friend, Roger Melton; and Lord knows I had much cause to like
    him.  I have more than ever now.  It was quite delightful to see the
    way the young adventurer was touched by his uncle's thought of him.
    He is a truly gallant fellow, but venturesome exploits have not
    affected the goodness of heart.  It is a pleasure to me to think that
    Roger and Colin came together apropos of the boy's thoughtful
    generosity towards Miss MacKelpie.  The old soldier will be a good
    friend to him, or I am much mistaken.  With an old lawyer like me,
    and an old soldier like him, and a real old gentlewoman like Miss
    MacKelpie, who loves the very ground he walks on, to look after him,
    together with all his own fine qualities and his marvellous
    experience of the world, and the gigantic wealth that will surely be
    his, that young man will go far.

Letter from Rupert Sent Leger to Miss Janet MacKelpie, Croom.

                                                        January 5, 1907.

    MY DEAREST AUNT JANET,

    It is all over--the first stage of it; and that is as far as I can
    get at present.  I shall have to wait for a few days--or it may be
    weeks--in London for the doing of certain things now necessitated by
    my acceptance of Uncle Roger's bequest.  But as soon as I can, dear,
    I shall come down to Croom and spend with you as many days as
    possible.  I shall then tell you all I am at liberty to tell, and I
    shall thank you personally for your consent to come with me to
    Vissarion.  Oh, how I wish my dear mother had lived to be with us!
    It would have made her happy, I know, to have come; and then we three
    who shared together the old dear, hard days would have shared in the
    same way the new splendour.  I would try to show all my love and
    gratitude to you both . . . You must take the whole burden of it now,
    dear, for you and I are alone.  No, not alone, as we used to be, for
    I have now two old friends who are already dear to me.  One is so to
    you already.  Sir Colin is simply splendid, and so, in his own way,
    is Mr. Trent.  I am lucky, Aunt Janet, to have two such men to think
    of affairs for me.  Am I not?  I shall send you a wire as soon as
    ever I can see my way to get through my work; and I want you to think
    over all the things you ever wished for in your life, so that I
    may--if there is any mortal way of doing so--get them for you.  You
    will not stand in the way of my having this great pleasure, will you,
    dear?  Good-bye.

                                                               Your loving
                                                                   RUPERT.

E. B. Trent's Memoranda.

                                                        January 6, 1907.

    The formal meeting of Sir Colin and myself with Rupert Sent Leger
    went off quite satisfactorily.  From what he had said yesterday, and
    again last night, I had almost come to expect an unreserved
    acceptance of everything stated or implied in Roger Melton's Will;
    but when we had sat round the table--this appeared, by the way, to be
    a formality for which we were all prepared, for we sat down as if by
    instinct--the very first words he said were:

    "As I suppose I must go through this formality, I may as well say at
    once that I accept every possible condition which was in the mind of
    Uncle Roger; and to this end I am prepared to sign, seal, and
    deliver--or whatever is the ritual--whatever document you,
    sir"--turning to me--"may think necessary or advisable, and of which
    you both approve."  He stood up and walked about the room for a few
    moments, Sir Colin and I sitting quite still, silent.  He came back
    to his seat, and after a few seconds of nervousness--a rare thing
    with him, I fancy--said: "I hope you both understand--of course, I
    know you do; I only speak because this is an occasion for
    formality--that I am willing to accept, and at once!  I do so,
    believe me, not to get possession of this vast fortune, but because
    of him who has given it.  The man who was fond of me, and who trusted
    me, and yet had strength to keep his own feelings in check--who
    followed me in spirit to far lands and desperate adventures, and who,
    though he might be across the world from me, was ready to put out a
    hand to save or help me, was no common man; and his care of my
    mother's son meant no common love for my dear mother.  And so she and
    I together accept his trust, come of it what may.  I have been
    thinking it over all night, and all the time I could not get out of
    the idea that mother was somewhere near me.  The only thought that
    could debar me from doing as I wished to do--and intend to do--would
    be that she would not approve.  Now that I am satisfied she would
    approve, I accept.  Whatever may result or happen, I shall go on
    following the course that he has set for me.  So help me, God!"  Sir
    Colin stood up, and I must say a more martial figure I never saw.  He
    was in full uniform, for he was going on to the King's levee after
    our business.  He drew his sword from the scabbard and laid it naked
    on the table before Rupert, and said:

    "You are going, sir, into a strange and danger country--I have been
    reading about it since we met--and you will be largely alone amongst
    fierce mountaineers who resent the very presence of a stranger, and
    to whom you are, and must be, one.  If you should ever be in any
    trouble and want a man to stand back to back with you, I hope you
    will give me the honour!"  As he said this pointed to his sword.
    Rupert and I were also standing now--one cannot sit down in the
    presence of such an act as that.  "You are, I am proud to say, allied
    with my family: and I only wish to God it was closer to myself."
    Rupert took him by the hand and bent his head before him as answered:

    "The honour is mine, Sir Colin; and no greater can come to any man
    than that which you have just done me.  The best way I can show how I
    value it will be to call on you if I am ever in such a tight place.
    By Jove, sir, this is history repeating itself.  Aunt Janet used to
    tell me when I was a youngster how MacKelpie of Croom laid his sword
    before Prince Charlie.  I hope I may tell her of this; it would make
    her so proud and happy.  Don't imagine, sir, that I am thinking
    myself a Charles Edward.  It is only that Aunt Janet is so good to me
    that I might well think I was."

    Sir Colin bowed grandly:

    "Rupert Sent Leger, my dear niece is a woman of great discretion and
    discernment.  And, moreover, I am thinking she has in her some of the
    gift of Second Sight that has been a heritage of our blood.  And I am
    one with my niece--in everything!"  The whole thing was quite regal
    in manner; it seemed to take me back to the days of the Pretender.

    It was not, however, a time for sentiment, but for action--we had met
    regarding the future, not the past; so I produced the short document
    I had already prepared.  On the strength of his steadfast declaration
    that he would accept the terms of the Will and the secret letters, I
    had got ready a formal acceptance.  When I had once again formally
    asked Mr. Sent Leger's wishes, and he had declared his wish to
    accept, I got in a couple of my clerks as witnesses.

    Then, having again asked him in their presence if it was his wish to
    declare acceptance of the conditions, the document was signed and
    witnessed, Sir Colin and I both appending our signatures to the
    Attestation.

    And so the first stage of Rupert Sent Leger's inheritance is
    completed.  The next step will not have to be undertaken on my part
    until the expiration of six months from his entry on his estate at
    Vissarion.  As he announces his intention of going within a
    fortnight, this will mean practically a little over six months from
    now.

BOOK II: VISSARION

Letter from Rupert Sent Leger, Castle of Vissarion, the Spear of Ivan, Land of the Blue Mountains,
to Miss Janet MacKelpie, Croom Castle, Ross-shire, N.B.

                                                       January 23, 1907.

    MY DEAREST AUNT JANET,

    As you see, I am here at last.  Having got my formal duty done, as
    you made me promise--my letters reporting arrival to Sir Colin and
    Mr. Trent are lying sealed in front of me ready to post (for nothing
    shall go before yours)--I am free to speak to you.

    This is a most lovely place, and I hope you will like it.  I am quite
    sure you will.  We passed it in the steamer coming from Trieste to
    Durazzo.  I knew the locality from the chart, and it was pointed out
    to me by one of the officers with whom I had become quite friendly,
    and who kindly showed me interesting places whenever we got within
    sight of shore.  The Spear of Ivan, on which the Castle stands, is a
    headland running well out into the sea.  It is quite a peculiar
    place--a sort of headland on a headland, jutting out into a deep,
    wide bay, so that, though it is a promontory, it is as far away from
    the traffic of coast life as anything you can conceive.  The main
    promontory is the end of a range of mountains, and looms up vast,
    towering over everything, a mass of sapphire blue.  I can well
    understand how the country came to be called the "Land of the Blue
    Mountains," for it is all mountains, and they are all blue!  The
    coast-line is magnificent--what is called "iron-bound"--being all
    rocky; sometimes great frowning precipices; sometimes jutting spurs
    of rock; again little rocky islets, now and again clad with trees and
    verdure, at other places stark and bare.  Elsewhere are little rocky
    bays and indentations--always rock, and often with long, interesting
    caves.  Some of the shores of the bays are sandy, or else ridges of
    beautiful pebbles, where the waves make endless murmur.

    But of all the places I have seen--in this land or any other--the
    most absolutely beautiful is Vissarion.  It stands at the ultimate
    point of the promontory--I mean the little, or, rather, lesser
    promontory--that continues on the spur of the mountain range.  For
    the lesser promontory or extension of the mountain is in reality
    vast; the lowest bit of cliff along the sea-front is not less than a
    couple of hundred feet high.  That point of rock is really very
    peculiar.  I think Dame Nature must, in the early days of her
    housekeeping--or, rather, house-building--have intended to give her
    little child, man, a rudimentary lesson in self-protection.  It is
    just a natural bastion such as a titanic Vauban might have designed
    in primeval times.  So far as the Castle is concerned, it is alone
    visible from the sea.  Any enemy approaching could see only that
    frowning wall of black rock, of vast height and perpendicular
    steepness.  Even the old fortifications which crown it are not built,
    but cut in the solid rock.  A long narrow creek of very deep water,
    walled in by high, steep cliffs, runs in behind the Castle, bending
    north and west, making safe and secret anchorage.  Into the creek
    falls over a precipice a mountain-stream, which never fails in volume
    of water.  On the western shore of that creek is the Castle, a huge
    pile of buildings of every style of architecture, from the Twelfth
    century to where such things seemed to stop in this dear old-world
    land--about the time of Queen Elizabeth.  So it is pretty
    picturesque.  I can tell you.  When we got the first glimpse of the
    place from the steamer the officer, with whom I was on the bridge,
    pointed towards it and said:

    "That is where we saw the dead woman floating in a coffin."  That was
    rather interesting, so I asked him all about it.  He took from his
    pocket-book a cutting from an Italian paper, which he handed to me.
    As I can read and speak Italian fairly well, it was all right; but as
    you, my dear Aunt Janet, are not skilled in languages, and as I doubt
    if there is any assistance of the kind to be had at Croom, I do not
    send it.  But as I have heard that the item has been produced in the
    last number of The Journal of Occultism, you will be easily able to
    get it.  As he handed me the cutting he said: "I am Destilia!"  His
    story was so strange that I asked him a good many questions about it.
    He answered me quite frankly on every point, but always adhering
    stoutly to the main point--namely, that it was no phantom or mirage,
    no dream or imperfect vision in a fog.  "We were four in all who saw
    it," he said--"three from the bridge and the Englishman,
    Caulfield--from the bows--whose account exactly agreed with what we
    saw.  Captain Mirolani and Falamano and I were all awake and in good
    trim.  We looked with our night-glasses, which are more than usually
    powerful.  You know, we need good glasses for the east shore of the
    Adriatic and for among the islands to the south.  There was a full
    moon and a brilliant light.  Of course we were a little way off, for
    though the Spear of Ivan is in deep water, one has to be careful of
    currents, for it is in just such places that the dangerous currents
    run."  The agent of Lloyd's told me only a few weeks ago that it was
    only after a prolonged investigation of the tidal and sea currents
    that the house decided to except from ordinary sea risks losses due
    to a too close course by the Spear of Ivan.  When I tried to get a
    little more definite account of the coffin-boat and the dead lady
    that is given in The Journal of Occultism he simply shrugged his
    shoulders.  "Signor, it is all," he said.  "That Englishman wrote
    everything after endless questioning."

    So you see, my dear, that our new home is not without superstitious
    interests of its own.  It is rather a nice idea, is it not, to have a
    dead woman cruising round our promontory in a coffin?  I doubt if
    even at Croom you can beat that.  "Makes the place kind of homey," as
    an American would say.  When you come, Aunt Janet, you will not feel
    lonesome, at any rate, and it will save us the trouble of importing
    some of your Highland ghosts to make you feel at home in the new
    land.  I don't know, but we might ask the stiff to come to tea with
    us.  Of course, it would be a late tea.  Somewhere between midnight
    and cock-crow would be about the etiquette of the thing, I fancy!

    But I must tell you all the realities of the Castle and around it.
    So I will write again within a day or two, and try to let you know
    enough to prepare you for coming here.  Till then adieu, my dear.

                                                               Your loving
                                                                   RUPERT.

From Rupert Sent Leger, Vissarion, to Janet MacKelpie, Croom.

                                                       January 25, 1907.

    I hope I did not frighten you, dear Aunt Janet, by the yarn of the
    lady in the coffin.  But I know you are not afraid; you have told me
    too many weird stories for me to dread that.  Besides, you have
    Second Sight--latent, at all events.  However, there won't be any
    more ghosts, or about ghosts, in this letter.  I want to tell you all
    about our new home.  I am so glad you are coming out so soon; I am
    beginning to feel so lonesome--I walk about sometimes aimlessly, and
    find my thoughts drifting in such an odd way.  If I didn't know
    better, I might begin to think I was in love!  There is no one here
    to be in love with; so make your mind easy, Aunt Janet.  Not that you
    would be unhappy, I know, dear, if I did fall in love.  I suppose I
    must marry some day.  It is a duty now, I know, when there is such an
    estate as Uncle Roger has left me.  And I know this: I shall never
    marry any woman unless I love her.  And I am right sure that if I do
    love her you will love her, too, Aunt Janet!  Won't you, dear?  It
    wouldn't be half a delight if you didn't.  It won't if you don't.
    There, now!

    But before I begin to describe Vissarion I shall throw a sop to you
    as a chatelaine; that may give you patience to read the rest.  The
    Castle needs a lot of things to make it comfortable--as you would
    consider it.  In fact, it is absolutely destitute of everything of a
    domestic nature.  Uncle Roger had it vetted on the defence side, and
    so far it could stand a siege.  But it couldn't cook a dinner or go
    through a spring-cleaning!  As you know, I am not much up in domestic
    matters, and so I cannot give you details; but you may take it that
    it wants everything.  I don't mean furniture, or silver, or even
    gold-plate, or works of art, for it is full of the most magnificent
    old things that you can imagine.  I think Uncle Roger must have been
    a collector, and gathered a lot of good things in all sorts of
    places, stored them for years, and then sent them here.  But as to
    glass, china, delft, all sorts of crockery, linen, household
    appliances and machinery, cooking utensils--except of the
    simplest--there are none.  I don't think Uncle Roger could have lived
    here more than on a temporary picnic.  So far as I only am concerned,
    I am all right; a gridiron and a saucepan are all I want--and I can
    use them myself.  But, dear Aunt Janet, I don't want you to pig it.
    I would like you to have everything you can imagine, and all of the
    very best.  Cost doesn't count now for us, thanks to Uncle Roger; and
    so I want you to order all.  I know you, dear--being a woman--won't
    object to shopping.  But it will have to be wholesale.  This is an
    enormous place, and will swallow up all you can buy--like a
    quicksand.  Do as you like about choosing, but get all the help you
    can.  Don't be afraid of getting too much.  You can't, or of being
    idle when you are here.  I assure you that when you come there will
    be so much to do and so many things to think of that you will want to
    get away from it all.  And, besides, Aunt Janet, I hope you won't be
    too long.  Indeed, I don't wish to be selfish, but your boy is
    lonely, and wants you.  And when you get here you will be an EMPRESS.
    I don't altogether like doing so, lest I should offend a
    millionairess like you; but it may facilitate matters, and the way's
    of commerce are strict, though devious.  So I send you a cheque for
    1,000 pounds for the little things: and a letter to the bank to
    honour your own cheques for any amount I have got.

    I think, by the way, I should, if I were you, take or send out a few
    servants--not too many at first, only just enough to attend on our
    two selves.  You can arrange to send for any more you may want later.
    Engage them, and arrange for their being paid--when they are in our
    service we must treat them well--and then they can be at our call as
    you find that we want them.  I think you should secure, say, fifty or
    a hundred--'tis an awfu' big place, Aunt Janet!  And in the same way
    will you secure--and, of course, arrange for pay similarly--a hundred
    men, exclusive of any servants you think it well to have.  I should
    like the General, if he can give the time, to choose or pass them.  I
    want clansmen that I can depend on, if need be.  We are going to live
    in a country which is at present strange to us, and it is well to
    look things in the face.  I know Sir Colin will only have men who are
    a credit to Scotland and to Ross and to Croom--men who will impress
    the Blue Mountaineers.  I know they will take them to their
    hearts--certainly if any of them are bachelors the girls will!
    Forgive me!  But if we are to settle here, our followers will
    probably want to settle also.  Moreover, the Blue Mountaineers may
    want followers also!  And will want them to settle, too, and have
    successors!

    Now for the description of the place.  Well, I simply can't just now.
    It is all so wonderful and so beautiful.  The Castle--I have written
    so much already about other things that I really must keep the Castle
    for another letter!  Love to Sir Colin if he is at Croom.  And oh,
    dear Aunt Janet, how I wish that my dear mother was coming out!  It
    all seems so dark and empty without her.  How she would have enjoyed
    it!  How proud she would have been!  And, my dear, if she could be
    with us again, how grateful she would have been to you for all you
    have done for her boy!  As I am, believe me, most truly and sincerely
    and affectionately grateful.

    MY DEAR AUNT JANET,

    Please read this as if it was a part of the letter I wrote yesterday.

    The Castle itself is so vast that I really can't describe it in
    detail.  So I am waiting till you come; and then you and I will go
    over it together and learn all that we can about it.  We shall take
    Rooke with us, and, as he is supposed to know every part of it, from
    the keep to the torture-chamber, we can spend a few days over it.  Of
    course, I have been over most of it, since I came--that, is, I went
    at various times to see different portions--the battlements, the
    bastions, the old guard-room, the hall, the chapel, the walls, the
    roof.  And I have been through some of the network of rock passages.
    Uncle Roger must have spent a mint of money on it, so far as I can
    see; and though I am not a soldier, I have been in so many places
    fortified in different ways that I am not entirely ignorant of the
    subject.  He has restored it in such an up-to-date way that it is
    practically impregnable to anything under big guns or a siege-train.
    He has gone so far as to have certain outworks and the keep covered
    with armoured plating of what looks like harveyized steel.  You will
    wonder when you see it.  But as yet I really know only a few rooms,
    and am familiar with only one--my own room.  The drawing-room--not
    the great hall, which is a vast place; the library--a magnificent
    one, but in sad disorder--we must get a librarian some day to put it
    in trim; and the drawing-room and boudoir and bedroom suite which I
    have selected for you, are all fine.  But my own room is what suits
    me best, though I do not think you would care for it for yourself.
    If you do, you shall have it.  It was Uncle Roger's own room when he
    stayed here; living in it for a few days served to give me more
    insight to his character--or rather to his mind--than I could have
    otherwise had.  It is just the kind of place I like myself; so,
    naturally, I understand the other chap who liked it too.  It is a
    fine big room, not quite within the Castle, but an outlying part of
    it.  It is not detached, or anything of that sort, but is a sort of
    garden-room built on to it.  There seems to have been always some
    sort of place where it is, for the passages and openings inside seem
    to accept or recognize it.  It can be shut off if necessary--it would
    be in case of attack--by a great slab of steel, just like the door of
    a safe, which slides from inside the wall, and can be operated from
    either inside or outside--if you know how.  That is from my room or
    from within the keep.  The mechanism is a secret, and no one but
    Rooke and I know it.  The room opens out through a great French
    window--the French window is modern, I take it, and was arranged by
    or for Uncle Roger; I think there must have been always a large
    opening there, for centuries at least--which opens on a wide terrace
    or balcony of white marble, extending right and left.  From this a
    white marble stair lies straight in front of the window, and leads
    down to the garden.  The balcony and staircase are quite ancient--of
    old Italian work, beautifully carved, and, of course, weather-worn
    through centuries.  There is just that little tinging of green here
    and there which makes all outdoor marble so charming.  It is hard to
    believe at times that it is a part of a fortified castle, it is so
    elegant and free and open.  The first glance of it would make a
    burglar's heart glad.  He would say to himself: "Here is the sort of
    crib I like when I'm on the job.  You can just walk in and out as you
    choose."  But, Aunt Janet, old Roger was cuter than any burglar.  He
    had the place so guarded that the burglar would have been a baffled
    burglar.  There are two steel shields which can slide out from the
    wall and lock into the other side right across the whole big window.
    One is a grille of steel bands that open out into diamond-shaped
    lozenges.  Nothing bigger than a kitten could get through; and yet
    you can see the garden and the mountains and the whole view--much the
    same as you ladies can see through your veils.  The other is a great
    sheet of steel, which slides out in a similar way in different
    grooves.  It is not, of course, so heavy and strong as the safe-door
    which covers the little opening in the main wall, but Rooke tells me
    it is proof against the heaviest rifle-hall.

    Having told you this, I must tell you, too, Aunt Janet, lest you
    should be made anxious by the arriere-pensee of all these warlike
    measures of defence, that I always sleep at night with one of these
    iron screens across the window.  Of course, when I am awake I leave
    it open.  As yet I have tried only, but not used, the grille; and I
    don't think I shall ever use anything else, for it is a perfect
    guard.  If it should be tampered with from outside it would sound an
    alarm at the head of the bed, and the pressing of a button would roll
    out the solid steel screen in front of it.  As a matter of fact, I
    have been so used to the open that I don't feel comfortable shut in.
    I only close windows against cold or rain.  The weather here is
    delightful--as yet, at all events--but they tell me that the rainy
    season will be on us before very long.

    I think you will like my den, aunty dear, though it will doubtless be
    a worry to you to see it so untidy.  But that can't be helped.  I
    must be untidy somewhere; and it is best in my own den!

    Again I find my letter so long that I must cut it off now and go on
    again to-night.  So this must go as it stands.  I shall not cause you
    to wait to hear all I can tell you about our new home.

    MY DEAR AUNT JANET,

    My den looks out, as I told you in my last letter, on the garden, or,
    to speak more accurately, on one of the gardens, for there are
    acres of them.  This is the old one, which must be almost as old as
    the Castle itself, for it was within the defences in the old days of
    bows.  The wall that surrounds the inner portion of it has long ago
    been levelled, but sufficient remains at either end where it joined
    the outer defences to show the long casemates for the bowmen to shoot
    through and the raised stone gallery where they stood.  It is just
    the same kind of building as the stone-work of the sentry's walk on
    the roof and of the great old guard-room under it.

    But whatever the garden may have been, and no matter how it was
    guarded, it is a most lovely place.  There are whole sections of
    garden here of various styles--Greek, Italian, French, German, Dutch,
    British, Spanish, African, Moorish--all the older nationalities.  I
    am going to have a new one laid out for you--a Japanese garden.  I
    have sent to the great gardener of Japan, Minaro, to make the plans
    for it, and to come over with workmen to carry it out.  He is to
    bring trees and shrubs and flowers and stone-work, and everything
    that can be required; and you shall superintend the finishing, if not
    the doing, of it yourself.  We have such a fine head of water here,
    and the climate is, they tell me, usually so lovely that we can do
    anything in the gardening way.  If it should ever turn out that the
    climate does not suit, we shall put a great high glass roof over it,
    and make a suitable climate.

    This garden in front of my room is the old Italian garden.  It must
    have been done with extraordinary taste and care, for there is not a
    bit of it which is not rarely beautiful.  Sir Thomas Browne himself,
    for all his Quincunx, would have been delighted with it, and have
    found material for another "Garden of Cyrus."  It is so big that
    there are endless "episodes" of garden beauty I think all Italy must
    have been ransacked in old times for garden stone-work of exceptional
    beauty; and these treasures have been put together by some
    master-hand.  Even the formal borders of the walks are of old porous
    stone, which takes the weather-staining so beautifully, and are
    carved in endless variety.  Now that the gardens have been so long
    neglected or left in abeyance, the green staining has become perfect.
    Though the stone-work is itself intact, it has all the picturesque
    effect of the wear and ruin wrought by many centuries.  I am having
    it kept for you just as it is, except that I have had the weeds and
    undergrowth cleared away so that its beauties might be visible.

    But it is not merely the architect work of the garden that is so
    beautiful, nor is the assembling there of the manifold wealth of
    floral beauty--there is the beauty that Nature creates by the hand of
    her servant, Time.  You see, Aunt Janet, how the beautiful garden
    inspires a danger-hardened old tramp like me to high-grade sentiments
    of poetic fancy!  Not only have limestone and sandstone, and even
    marble, grown green in time, but even the shrubs planted and then
    neglected have developed new kinds of beauty of their own.  In some
    far-distant time some master-gardener of the Vissarions has tried to
    realize an idea--that of tiny plants that would grow just a little
    higher than the flowers, so that the effect of an uneven floral
    surface would be achieved without any hiding of anything in the
    garden seen from anywhere.  This is only my reading of what has been
    from the effect of what is!  In the long period of neglect the shrubs
    have outlived the flowers.  Nature has been doing her own work all
    the time in enforcing the survival of the fittest.  The shrubs have
    grown and grown, and have overtopped flower and weed, according to
    their inherent varieties of stature; to the effect that now you see
    irregularly scattered through the garden quite a number--for it is a
    big place--of vegetable products which from a landscape standpoint
    have something of the general effect of statues without the cramping
    feeling of detail.  Whoever it was that laid out that part of the
    garden or made the choice of items, must have taken pains to get
    strange specimens, for all those taller shrubs are in special
    colours, mostly yellow or white--white cypress, white holly, yellow
    yew, grey-golden box, silver juniper, variegated maple, spiraea, and
    numbers of dwarf shrubs whose names I don't know.  I only know that
    when the moon shines--and this, my dear Aunt Janet, is the very land
    of moonlight itself!--they all look ghastly pale.  The effect is
    weird to the last degree, and I am sure that you will enjoy it.  For
    myself, as you know, uncanny things hold no fear.  I suppose it is
    that I have been up against so many different kinds of fears, or,
    rather, of things which for most people have terrors of their own,
    that I have come to have a contempt--not an active contempt, you
    know, but a tolerative contempt--for the whole family of them.  And
    you, too, will enjoy yourself here famously, I know.  You'll have to
    collect all the stories of such matters in our new world and make a
    new book of facts for the Psychical Research Society.  It will be
    nice to see your own name on a title-page, won't it, Aunt Janet?

From Rupert Sent Leger, Vissarion, to Janet MacKelpie, Croom.

                                                       January 30, 1907.

    MY DEAR AUNT JANET,

    I stopped writing last night--do you know why?  Because I wanted to
    write more!  This sounds a paradox, but it is true.  The fact is
    that, as I go on telling you of this delightful place, I keep finding
    out new beauties myself.  Broadly speaking, it is all beautiful.
    In the long view or the little view--as the telescope or the
    microscope directs--it is all the same.  Your eye can turn on nothing
    that does not entrance you.  I was yesterday roaming about the upper
    part of time Castle, and came across some delightful nooks, which at
    once I became fond of, and already like them as if I had known them
    all my life.  I felt at first a sense of greediness when I had
    appropriated to myself several rooms in different places--I who have
    never in my life had more than one room which I could call my
    own--and that only for a time!  But when I slept on it the feeling
    changed, and its aspect is now not half bad.  It is now under another
    classification--under a much more important label--proprietorship.
    If I were writing philosophy, I should here put in a cynical remark:

    "Selfishness is an appanage of poverty.  It might appear in the
    stud-book as by 'Morals' out of 'Wants.'"

    I have now three bedrooms arranged as my own particular dens.  One of
    the other two was also a choice of Uncle Roger's.  It is at the top
    of one of the towers to the extreme east, and from it I can catch the
    first ray of light over the mountains.  I slept in it last night, and
    when I woke, as in my travelling I was accustomed to do, at dawn, I
    saw from my bed through an open window--a small window, for it is in
    a fortress tower--the whole great expanse to the east.  Not far off,
    and springing from the summit of a great ruin, where long ago a seed
    had fallen, rose a great silver-birch, and the half-transparent,
    drooping branches and hanging clusters of leaf broke the outline of
    the grey hills beyond, for the hills were, for a wonder, grey instead
    of blue.  There was a mackerel sky, with the clouds dropping on the
    mountain-tops till you could hardly say which was which.  It was a
    mackerel sky of a very bold and extraordinary kind--not a dish of
    mackerel, but a world of mackerel!  The mountains are certainly most
    lovely.  In this clear air they usually seem close at hand.  It was
    only this morning, with the faint glimpse of the dawn whilst the
    night clouds were still unpierced by the sunlight, that I seemed to
    realize their greatness.  I have seen the same enlightening effect of
    aerial perspective a few times before--in Colorado, in Upper India,
    in Thibet, and in the uplands amongst the Andes.

    There is certainly something in looking at things from above which
    tends to raise one's own self-esteem.  From the height, inequalities
    simply disappear.  This I have often felt on a big scale when
    ballooning, or, better still, from an aeroplane.  Even here from the
    tower the outlook is somehow quite different from below.  One
    realizes the place and all around it, not in detail, but as a whole.
    I shall certainly sleep up here occasionally, when you have come and
    we have settled down to our life as it is to be.  I shall live in my
    own room downstairs, where I can have the intimacy of the garden.
    But I shall appreciate it all the more from now and again losing the
    sense of intimacy for a while, and surveying it without the sense of
    one's own self-importance.

    I hope you have started on that matter of the servants.  For myself,
    I don't care a button whether or not there are any servants at all;
    but I know well that you won't come till you have made your
    arrangements regarding them!  Another thing, Aunt Janet.  You must
    not be killed with work here, and it is all so vast . . . Why can't
    you get some sort of secretary who will write your letters and do all
    that sort of thing for you?  I know you won't have a man secretary;
    but there are lots of women now who can write shorthand and
    typewrite.  You could doubtless get one in the clan--someone with a
    desire to better herself.  I know you would make her happy here.  If
    she is not too young, all the better; she will have learned to hold
    her tongue and mind her own business, and not be too inquisitive.
    That would be a nuisance when we are finding our way about in a new
    country and trying to reconcile all sorts of opposites in a whole new
    country with new people, whom at first we shan't understand, and who
    certainly won't understand us; where every man carries a gun with as
    little thought of it as he has of buttons!  Good-bye for a while.

                                                       February 3, 1907.

    I am back in my own room again.  Already it seems to me that to get
    here again is like coming home.  I have been going about for the last
    few days amongst the mountaineers and trying to make their
    acquaintance.  It is a tough job; and I can see that there will be
    nothing but to stick to it.  They are in reality the most primitive
    people I ever met--the most fixed to their own ideas, which belong to
    centuries back.  I can understand now what people were like in
    England--not in Queen Elizabeth's time, for that was civilized time,
    but in the time of Coeur-de-Lion, or even earlier--and all the time
    with the most absolute mastery of weapons of precision.  Every man
    carries a rifle--and knows how to use it, too.  I do believe they
    would rather go without their clothes than their guns if they had to
    choose between them.  They also carry a handjar, which used to be
    their national weapon.  It is a sort of heavy, straight cutlass, and
    they are so expert with it as well as so strong that it is as facile
    in the hands of a Blue Mountaineer as is a foil in the hands of a
    Persian maitre d'armes.  They are so proud and reserved that they
    make one feel quite small, and an "outsider" as well.  I can see
    quite well that they rather resent my being here at all.  It is not
    personal, for when alone with me they are genial, almost brotherly;
    but the moment a few of them get together they are like a sort of
    jury, with me as the criminal before them.  It is an odd situation,
    and quite new to me.  I am pretty well accustomed to all sorts of
    people, from cannibals to Mahatmas, but I'm blessed if I ever struck
    such a type as this--so proud, so haughty, so reserved, so distant,
    so absolutely fearless, so honourable, so hospitable.  Uncle Roger's
    head was level when he chose them out as a people to live amongst.
    Do you know, Aunt Janet, I can't help feeling that they are very much
    like your own Highlanders--only more so.  I'm sure of one thing: that
    in the end we shall get on capitally together.  But it will be a slow
    job, and will need a lot of patience.  I have a feeling in my bones
    that when they know me better they will be very loyal and very true;
    and I am not a hair's-breadth afraid of them or anything they shall
    or might do.  That is, of course, if I live long enough for them to
    have time to know me.  Anything may happen with such an indomitable,
    proud people to whom pride is more than victuals.  After all, it only
    needs one man out of a crowd to have a wrong idea or to make a
    mistake as to one's motive--and there you are.  But it will be all
    right that way, I am sure.  I am come here to stay, as Uncle Roger
    wished.  And stay I shall even if it has to be in a little bed of my
    own beyond the garden--seven feet odd long, and not too narrow--or
    else a stone-box of equal proportions in the vaults of St. Sava's
    Church across the Creek--the old burial-place of the Vissarions and
    other noble people for a good many centuries back . . .

    I have been reading over this letter, dear Aunt Janet, and I am
    afraid the record is rather an alarming one.  But don't you go
    building up superstitious horrors or fears on it.  Honestly, I am
    only joking about death--a thing to which I have been rather prone
    for a good many years back.  Not in very good taste, I suppose, but
    certainly very useful when the old man with the black wings goes
    flying about you day and night in strange places, sometimes visible
    and at others invisible.  But you can always hear wings, especially
    in the dark, when you cannot see them.  You know that, Aunt Janet,
    who come of a race of warriors, and who have special sight behind or
    through the black curtain.

    Honestly, I am in no whit afraid of the Blue Mountaineers, nor have I
    a doubt of them.  I love them already for their splendid qualities,
    and I am prepared to love them for themselves.  I feel, too, that
    they will love me (and incidentally they are sure to love you).  I
    have a sort of undercurrent of thought that there is something in
    their minds concerning me--something not painful, but disturbing;
    something that has a base in the past; something that has hope in it
    and possible pride, and not a little respect.  As yet they can have
    had no opportunity of forming such impression from seeing me or from
    any thing I have done.  Of course, it may be that, although they are
    fine, tall, stalwart men, I am still a head and shoulders over the
    tallest of them that I have yet seen.  I catch their eyes looking up
    at me as though they were measuring me, even when they are keeping
    away from me, or, rather, keeping me from them at arm's length.  I
    suppose I shall understand what it all means some day.  In the
    meantime there is nothing to do but to go on my own way--which is
    Uncle Roger's--and wait and be patient and just.  I have learned the
    value of that, any way, in my life amongst strange peoples.
    Good-night.

    MY DEAR AUNT JANET,

    I am more than rejoiced to hear that you are coming here so soon.
    This isolation is, I think, getting on my nerves.  I thought for a
    while last night that I was getting on, but the reaction came all too
    soon.  I was in my room in the east turret, the room on the
    corbeille, and saw here and there men passing silently and swiftly
    between the trees as though in secret.  By-and-by I located their
    meeting-place, which was in a hollow in the midst of the wood just
    outside the "natural" garden, as the map or plan of the castle calls
    it.  I stalked that place for all I was worth, and suddenly walked
    straight into the midst of them.  There were perhaps two or three
    hundred gathered, about the very finest lot of men I ever saw in my
    life.  It was in its way quite an experience, and one not likely to
    be repeated, for, as I told you, in this country every man carries a
    rifle, and knows how to use it.  I do not think I have seen a single
    man (or married man either) without his rifle since I came here.  I
    wonder if they take them with them to bed!  Well, the instant after I
    stood amongst them every rifle in the place was aimed straight at me.
    Don't be alarmed, Aunt Janet; they did not fire at me.  If they had I
    should not be writing to you now.  I should be in that little bit of
    real estate or the stone box, and about as full of lead as I could
    hold.  Ordinarily, I take it, they would have fired on the instant;
    that is the etiquette here.  But this time they--all separately but
    all together--made a new rule.  No one said a word or, so far as I
    could see, made a movement.  Here came in my own experience.  I had
    been more than once in a tight place of something of the same kind,
    so I simply behaved in the most natural way I could.  I felt
    conscious--it was all in a flash, remember--that if I showed fear or
    cause for fear, or even acknowledged danger by so much as even
    holding up my hands, I should have drawn all the fire.  They all
    remained stock-still, as though they had been turned into stone, for
    several seconds.  Then a queer kind of look flashed round them like
    wind over corn--something like the surprise one shows unconsciously
    on waking in a strange place.  A second after they each dropped the
    rifle to the hollow of his arm and stood ready for anything.  It was
    all as regular and quick and simultaneous as a salute at St. James's
    Palace.

    Happily I had no arms of any kind with me, so that there could be no
    complication.  I am rather a quick hand myself when there is any
    shooting to be done.  However, there was no trouble here, but the
    contrary; the Blue Mountaineers--it sounds like a new sort of Bond
    Street band, doesn't it?--treated me in quite a different way than
    they did when I first met them.  They were amazingly civil, almost
    deferential.  But, all time same, they were more distant than ever,
    and all the time I was there I could get not a whit closer to them.
    They seemed in a sort of way to be afraid or in awe of me.  No doubt
    that will soon pass away, and when we know one another better we
    shall become close friends.  They are too fine fellows not to be
    worth a little waiting for.  (That sentence, by the way, is a pretty
    bad sentence!  In old days you would have slippered me for it!)  Your
    journey is all arranged, and I hope you will be comfortable.  Rooke
    will meet you at Liverpool Street and look after everything.

    I shan't write again, but when we meet at Fiume I shall begin to tell
    you all the rest.  Till then, good-bye.  A good journey to you, and a
    happy meeting to us both.

                                                                   RUPERT.

Letter from Janet MacKelpie, Vissarion, to Sir Colin MacKelpie, United Service Club, London.

                                                      February 28, 1907.

    DEAREST UNCLE,

    I had a very comfortable journey all across Europe.  Rupert wrote to
    me some time ago to say that when I got to Vissarion I should be an
    Empress, and he certainly took care that on the way here I should be
    treated like one.  Rooke, who seems a wonderful old man, was in the
    next compartment to that reserved for me.  At Harwich he had
    everything arranged perfectly, and so right on to Fiume.  Everywhere
    there were attentive officials waiting.  I had a carriage all to
    myself, which I joined at Antwerp--a whole carriage with a suite of
    rooms, dining-room, drawing-room, bedroom, even bath-room.  There was
    a cook with a kitchen of his own on board, a real chef like a French
    nobleman in disguise.  There were also a waiter and a servant-maid.
    My own maid Maggie was quite awed at first.  We were as far as
    Cologne before she summoned up courage to order them about.  Whenever
    we stopped Rooke was on the platform with local officials, and kept
    the door of my carriage like a sentry on duty.

    At Fiume, when the train slowed down, I saw Rupert waiting on the
    platform.  He looked magnificent, towering over everybody there like
    a giant.  He is in perfect health, and seemed glad to see me.  He
    took me off at once on an automobile to a quay where an electric
    launch was waiting.  This took us on board a beautiful big
    steam-yacht, which was waiting with full steam up and--how he got
    there I don't know--Rooke waiting at the gangway.

    I had another suite all to myself.  Rupert and I had dinner
    together--I think the finest dinner I ever sat down to.  This was
    very nice of Rupert, for it was all for me.  He himself only ate a
    piece of steak and drank a glass of water.  I went to bed early, for,
    despite the luxury of the journey, I was very tired.

    I awoke in the grey of the morning, and came on deck.  We were close
    to the coast.  Rupert was on the bridge with the Captain, and Rooke
    was acting as pilot.  When Rupert saw me, he ran down the ladder and
    took me up on the bridge.  He left me there while he ran down again
    and brought me up a lovely fur cloak which I had never seen.  He put
    it on me and kissed me.  He is the tenderest-hearted boy in the
    world, as well as the best and bravest!  He made me take his arm
    whilst he pointed out Vissarion, towards which we were steering.  It
    is the most lovely place I ever saw.  I won't stop to describe it
    now, for it will be better that you see it for yourself and enjoy it
    all fresh as I did.

    The Castle is an immense place.  You had better ship off, as soon as
    all is ready here and you can arrange it, the servants whom I
    engaged; and I am not sure that we shall not want as many more.
    There has hardly been a mop or broom on the place for centuries, and
    I doubt if it ever had a thorough good cleaning all over since it was
    built.  And, do you know, Uncle, that it might be well to double that
    little army of yours that you are arranging for Rupert?  Indeed, the
    boy told me himself that he was going to write to you about it.  I
    think old Lachlan and his wife, Sandy's Mary, had better be in charge
    of the maids when they come over.  A lot of lassies like yon will be
    iller to keep together than a flock of sheep.  So it will be wise to
    have authority over them, especially as none of them speaks a word of
    foreign tongues.  Rooke--you saw him at the station at Liverpool
    Street--will, if he be available, go over to bring the whole body
    here.  He has offered to do it if I should wish.  And, by the way, I
    think it will be well, when the time comes for their departure, if
    not only the lassies, but Lachlan and Sandy's Mary, too, will call
    him Mister Rooke.  He is a very important person indeed here.  He
    is, in fact, a sort of Master of the Castle, and though he is very
    self-suppressing, is a man of rarely fine qualities.  Also it will be
    well to keep authority.  When your clansmen come over, he will have
    charge of them, too.  Dear me!  I find I have written such a long
    letter, I must stop and get to work.  I shall write again.

                                                    Your very affectionate
                                                                    JANET.

From the Same to the Same.

                                                          March 3, 1907.

    DEAREST UNCLE,

    All goes well here, and as there is no news, I only write because you
    are a dear, and I want to thank you for all the trouble you have
    taken for me--and for Rupert.  I think we had better wait awhile
    before bringing out the servants.  Rooke is away on some business for
    Rupert, and will not be back for some time; Rupert thinks it may be a
    couple of months.  There is no one else that he could send to take
    charge of the party from home, and I don't like the idea of all those
    lassies coming out without an escort.  Even Lachlan and Sandy's Mary
    are ignorant of foreign languages and foreign ways.  But as soon as
    Rooke returns we can have them all out.  I dare say you will have
    some of your clansmen ready by then, and I think the poor girls, who
    may feel a bit strange in a new country like this, where the ways are
    so different from ours, will feel easier when they know that there
    are some of their own mankind near them.  Perhaps it might be well
    that those of them who are engaged to each other--I know there are
    some--should marry before they come out here.  It will be more
    convenient in many ways, and will save lodgment, and, besides, these
    Blue Mountaineers are very handsome men.  Good-night.

                                                                    JANET.

Sir Colin MacKelpie, Croom, to Janet MacKelpie, Vissarion.

                                                          March 9, 1907.

    MY DEAR JANET,

    I have duly received both your letters, and am delighted to find you
    are so well pleased with your new home.  It must certainly be a very
    lovely and unique place, and I am myself longing to see it.  I came
    up here three days ago, and am, as usual, feeling all the better for
    a breath of my native air.  Time goes on, my dear, and I am beginning
    to feel not so young as I was.  Tell Rupert that the men are all fit,
    and longing to get out to him.  They are certainly a fine lot of men.
    I don't think I ever saw a finer.  I have had them drilled and
    trained as soldiers, and, in addition, have had them taught a lot of
    trades just as they selected themselves.  So he shall have nigh him
    men who can turn their hands to anything--not, of course, that they
    all know every trade, but amongst them there is someone who can do
    whatever may be required.  There are blacksmiths, carpenters,
    farriers, saddle-makers, gardeners, plumbers, cutlers, gunsmiths, so,
    as they all are farmers by origin and sportsmen by practice, they
    will make a rare household body of men.  They are nearly all
    first-class shots, and I am having them practise with revolvers.
    They are being taught fencing and broadsword and ju-jitsu; I have
    organized them in military form, with their own sergeants and
    corporals.  This morning I had an inspection, and I assure you, my
    dear, they could give points to the Household troop in matters of
    drill.  I tell you I am proud of my clansmen!

    I think you are quite wise about waiting to bring out the lassies,
    and wiser still about the marrying.  I dare say there will be more
    marrying when they all get settled in a foreign country.  I shall be
    glad of it, for as Rupert is going to settle there, it will be good
    for him to have round him a little colony of his own people.  And it
    will be good for them, too, for I know he will be good to them--as
    you will, my dear.  The hills are barren here, and life is hard, and
    each year there is more and more demand for crofts, and sooner or
    later our people must thin out.  And mayhap our little settlement of
    MacKelpie clan away beyond the frontiers of the Empire may be some
    service to the nation and the King.  But this is a dream!

    By the way, my dear, talking about dreams, I am sending you out some
    boxes of books which were in your rooms.  They are nearly all on odd
    subjects that we understand--Second Sight, Ghosts, Dreams (that was
    what brought the matter to my mind just now), superstitions,
    Vampires, Wehr-Wolves, and all such uncanny folk and things.  I
    looked over some of these books, and found your marks and underlining
    and comments, so I fancy you will miss them in your new home.  You
    will, I am sure, feel more at ease with such old friends close to
    you.  I have taken the names and sent the list to London, so that
    when you pay me a visit again you will be at home in all ways.  If
    you come to me altogether, you will be more welcome still--if
    possible.  But I am sure that Rupert, who I know loves you very much,
    will try to make you so happy that you will not want to leave him.
    So I will have to come out often to see you both, even at the cost of
    leaving Croom for so long.  Strange, is it not? that now, when,
    through Roger Melton's more than kind remembrance of me, I am able to
    go where I will and do what I will, I want more and more to remain at
    home by my own ingle.  I don't think that anyone but you or Rupert
    could get me away from it.  I am working very hard at my little
    regiment, as I call it.  They are simply fine, and will, I am sure,
    do us credit.  The uniforms are all made, and well made, too.  There
    is not a man of them that does not look like an officer.  I tell you,
    Janet, that when we turn out the Vissarion Guard we shall feel proud
    of them.  I dare say that a couple of months will do all that can be
    done here.  I shall come out with them myself.  Rupert writes me that
    he thinks it will be more comfortable to come out direct in a ship of
    our own.  So when I go up to London in a few weeks' time I shall see
    about chartering a suitable vessel.  It will certainly save a lot of
    trouble to us and anxiety to our people.  Would it not be well when I
    am getting the ship, if I charter one big enough to take out all your
    lassies, too?  It is not as if they were strangers.  After all, my
    dear, soldiers are soldiers and lassies are lassies.  But these are
    all kinsfolk, as well as clansmen and clanswomen, and I, their Chief,
    shall be there.  Let me know your views and wishes in this respect.
    Mr. Trent, whom I saw before leaving London, asked me to "convey to
    you his most respectful remembrances"--these were his very words, and
    here they are.  Trent is a nice fellow, and I like him.  He has
    promised to pay me a visit here before the month is up, and I look
    forward to our both enjoying ourselves.

    Good-bye, my dear, and the Lord watch over you and our dear boy.

                                                  Your affectionate Uncle,
                                                COLIN ALEXANDER MACKELPIE.

BOOK III: THE COMING OF THE LADY

Rupert Sent Leger's Journal.

                                                          April 3, 1907.

I have waited till now--well into midday--before beginning to set down the details of the strange
episode of last night.  I have spoken with persons whom I know to be of normal type.  I have
breakfasted, as usual heartily, and have every reason to consider myself in perfect health
and sanity.  So that the record following may be regarded as not only true in substance, but
exact as to details.  I have investigated and reported on too many cases for the Psychical
Research Society to be ignorant of the necessity for absolute accuracy in such matters of even
the minutest detail.

Yesterday was Tuesday, the second day of April, 1907.  I passed a day of interest, with its
fair amount of work of varying kinds.  Aunt Janet and I lunched together, had a stroll round
the gardens after tea--especially examining the site for the new Japanese garden, which we
shall call "Janet's Garden."  We went in mackintoshes, for the rainy season is in its full,
the only sign of its not being a repetition of the Deluge being that breaks in the continuance
are beginning.  They are short at present but will doubtless enlarge themselves as the season
comes towards an end. We dined together at seven.  After dinner I had a cigar, and then joined
Aunt Janet for an hour in her drawing-room.  I left her at half-past ten, when I went to my
own room and wrote some letters.  At ten minutes past eleven I wound my watch, so I know the
time accurately.  Having prepared for bed, I drew back the heavy curtain in front of my window,
which opens on the marble steps into the Italian garden.  I had put out my light before drawing
back the curtain, for I wanted to have a look at the scene before turning in.  Aunt Janet has
always had an old-fashioned idea of the need (or propriety, I hardly know which) of keeping
windows closed and curtains drawn.  I am gradually getting her to leave my room alone in this
respect, but at present the change is in its fitful stage, and of course I must not hurry matters
or be too persistent, as it would hurt her feelings.  This night was one of those under the
old regime.  It was a delight to look out, for the scene was perfect of its own kind.  The
long spell of rain--the ceaseless downpour which had for the time flooded everywhere--had passed,
and water in abnormal places rather trickled than ran.  We were now beginning to be in the
sloppy rather than the deluged stage.  There was plenty of light to see by, for the moon had
begun to show out fitfully through the masses of flying clouds.  The uncertain light made weird
shadows with the shrubs and statues in the garden.  The long straight walk which leads from
the marble steps is strewn with fine sand white from the quartz strand in the nook to the south
of the Castle. Tall shrubs of white holly, yew, juniper, cypress, and variegated maple and
spiraea, which stood at intervals along the walk and its branches, appeared ghost-like in the
fitful moonlight.  The many vases and statues and urns, always like phantoms in a half-light,
were more than ever weird.  Last night the moonlight was unusually effective, and showed not
only the gardens down to the defending wall, but the deep gloom of the great forest-trees beyond;
and beyond that, again, to where the mountain chain began, the forest running up their silvered
slopes flamelike in form, deviated here and there by great crags and the outcropping rocky
sinews of the vast mountains.

Whilst I was looking at this lovely prospect, I thought I saw something white flit, like a
modified white flash, at odd moments from one to another of the shrubs or statues--anything
which would afford cover from observation.  At first I was not sure whether I really saw anything
or did not.  This was in itself a little disturbing to me, for I have been so long trained
to minute observation of facts surrounding me, on which often depend not only my own life,
but the lives of others, that I have become accustomed to trust my eyes; and anything creating
the faintest doubt in this respect is a cause of more or less anxiety to me.  Now, however,
that my attention was called to myself, I looked more keenly, and in a very short time was
satisfied that something was moving--something clad in white.  It was natural enough that my
thoughts should tend towards something uncanny--the belief that this place is haunted, conveyed
in a thousand ways of speech and inference.  Aunt Janet's eerie beliefs, fortified by her books
on occult subjects--and of late, in our isolation from the rest of the world, the subject of
daily conversations--helped to this end.  No wonder, then, that, fully awake and with senses
all on edge, I waited for some further manifestation from this ghostly visitor--as in my mind
I took it to be.  It must surely be a ghost or spiritual manifestation of some kind which moved
in this silent way.  In order to see and hear better, I softly moved back the folding grille,
opened the French window, and stepped out, bare-footed and pyjama-clad as I was, on the marble
terrace.  How cold the wet marble was!  How heavy smelled the rain-laden garden!  It was as
though the night and the damp, and even the moonlight, were drawing the aroma from all the
flowers that blossomed.  The whole night seemed to exhale heavy, half-intoxicating odours!
I stood at the head of the marble steps, and all immediately before me was ghostly in the extreme--the
white marble terrace and steps, the white walks of quartz-sand glistening under the fitful
moonlight; the shrubs of white or pale green or yellow,--all looking dim and ghostly in the
glamorous light; the white statues and vases.  And amongst them, still flitting noiselessly,
that mysterious elusive figure which I could not say was based on fact or imagination.  I held
my breath, listening intently for every sound; but sound there was none, save those of the
night and its denizens.  Owls hooted in the forest; bats, taking advantage of the cessation
of the rain, flitted about silently, like shadows in the air.  But there was no more sign of
moving ghost or phantom, or whatever I had seen might have been--if, indeed, there had been
anything except imagination.

So, after waiting awhile, I returned to my room, closed the window, drew the grille across
again, and dragged the heavy curtain before the opening; then, having extinguished my candles,
went to bed in the dark. In a few minutes I must have been asleep.

"What was that?"  I almost heard the words of my own thought as I sat up in bed wide awake.
To memory rather than present hearing the disturbing sound had seemed like the faint tapping
at the window.  For some seconds I listened, mechanically but intently, with bated breath and
that quick beating of the heart which in a timorous person speaks for fear, and for expectation
in another.  In the stillness the sound came again--this time a very, very faint but unmistakable
tapping at the glass door.

I jumped up, drew back the curtain, and for a moment stood appalled.

There, outside on the balcony, in the now brilliant moonlight, stood a woman, wrapped in white
grave-clothes saturated with water, which dripped on the marble floor, making a pool which
trickled slowly down the wet steps.  Attitude and dress and circumstance all conveyed the idea
that, though she moved and spoke, she was not quick, but dead.  She was young and very beautiful,
but pale, like the grey pallor of death.  Through the still white of her face, which made her
look as cold as the wet marble she stood on, her dark eyes seemed to gleam with a strange but
enticing lustre.  Even in the unsearching moonlight, which is after all rather deceptive than
illuminative, I could not but notice one rare quality of her eyes.  Each had some quality of
refraction which made it look as though it contained a star.  At every movement she made, the
stars exhibited new beauties, of more rare and radiant force.  She looked at me imploringly
as the heavy curtain rolled back, and in eloquent gestures implored me to admit her.  Instinctively
I obeyed; I rolled back the steel grille, and threw open the French window.  I noticed that
she shivered and trembled as the glass door fell open.  Indeed, she seemed so overcome with
cold as to seem almost unable to move.  In the sense of her helplessness all idea of the strangeness
of the situation entirely disappeared.  It was not as if my first idea of death taken from
her cerements was negatived.  It was simply that I did not think of it at all; I was content
to accept things as they were--she was a woman, and in some dreadful trouble; that was enough.

I am thus particular about my own emotions, as I may have to refer to them again in matters
of comprehension or comparison.  The whole thing is so vastly strange and abnormal that the
least thing may afterwards give some guiding light or clue to something otherwise not understandable.
I have always found that in recondite matters first impressions are of more real value than
later conclusions.  We humans place far too little reliance on instinct as against reason;
and yet instinct is the great gift of Nature to all animals for their protection and the fulfilment
of their functions generally.

When I stepped out on the balcony, not thinking of my costume, I found that the woman was benumbed
and hardly able to move.  Even when I asked her to enter, and supplemented my words with gestures
in case she should not understand my language, she stood stock-still, only rocking slightly
to and fro as though she had just strength enough left to balance herself on her feet.  I was
afraid, from the condition in which she was, that she might drop down dead at any moment. 
So I took her by the hand to lead her in.  But she seemed too weak to even make the attempt.
When I pulled her slightly forward, thinking to help her, she tottered, and would have fallen
had I not caught her in my arms.  Then, half lifting her, I moved her forwards.  Her feet,
relieved of her weight, now seemed able to make the necessary effort; and so, I almost carrying
her, we moved into the room.  She was at the very end of her strength; I had to lift her over
the sill.  In obedience to her motion, I closed the French window and bolted it.  I supposed
the warmth of the room--though cool, it was warmer than the damp air without--affected her
quickly, for on the instant she seemed to begin to recover herself.  In a few seconds, as though
she had reacquired her strength, she herself pulled the heavy curtain across the window.  This
left us in darkness, through which I heard her say in English:

"Light.  Get a light!"

I found matches, and at once lit a candle.  As the wick flared, she moved over to the door
of the room, and tried if the lock and bolt were fastened.  Satisfied as to this, she moved
towards me, her wet shroud leaving a trail of moisture on the green carpet.  By this time the
wax of the candle had melted sufficiently to let me see her clearly.  She was shaking and quivering
as though in an ague; she drew the wet shroud around her piteously.  Instinctively I spoke:

"Can I do anything for you?"

She answered, still in English, and in a voice of thrilling, almost piercing sweetness, which
seemed somehow to go straight to my heart, and affected me strangely: "Give me warmth."

I hurried to the fireplace.  It was empty; there was no fire laid.  I turned to her, and said:

"Wait just a few minutes here.  I shall call someone, and get help--and fire."

Her voice seemed to ring with intensity as she answered without a pause:

"No, no!  Rather would I be"--here she hesitated for an instant, but as she caught sight of
her cerements went on hurriedly--"as I am.  I trust you--not others; and you must not betray
my trust."  Almost instantly she fell into a frightful fit of shivering, drawing again her
death-clothes close to her, so piteously that it wrung my heart.  I suppose I am a practical
man.  At any rate, I am accustomed to action.  I took from its place beside my bed a thick
Jaeger dressing-gown of dark brown--it was, of course, of extra length--and held it out to
her as I said:

"Put that on.  It is the only warm thing here which would be suitable. Stay; you must remove
that wet--wet"--I stumbled about for a word that would not be offensive--"that frock--dress--costume--whatever
it is."  I pointed to where, in the corner of the room, stood a chintz-covered folding-screen
which fences in my cold sponge bath, which is laid ready for me overnight, as I am an early riser.

She bowed gravely, and taking the dressing-gown in a long, white, finely-shaped hand, bore
it behind the screen.  There was a slight rustle, and then a hollow "flop" as the wet garment
fell on the floor; more rustling and rubbing, and a minute later she emerged wrapped from head
to foot in the long Jaeger garment, which trailed on the floor behind her, though she was a
tall woman.  She was still shivering painfully, however.  I took a flask of brandy and a glass
from a cupboard, and offered her some; but with a motion of her hand she refused it, though
she moaned grievously.

"Oh, I am so cold--so cold!"  Her teeth were chattering.  I was pained at her sad condition,
and said despairingly, for I was at my wits' end to know what to do:

"Tell me anything that I can do to help you, and I will do it.  I may not call help; there
is no fire--nothing to make it with; you will not take some brandy.  What on earth can I do
to give you warmth?"

Her answer certainly surprised me when it came, though it was practical enough--so practical
that I should not have dared to say it.  She looked me straight in the face for a few seconds
before speaking.  Then, with an air of girlish innocence which disarmed suspicion and convinced
me at once of her simple faith, she said in a voice that at once thrilled me and evoked all
my pity:

"Let me rest for a while, and cover me up with rugs.  That may give me warmth.  I am dying
of cold.  And I have a deadly fear upon me--a deadly fear.  Sit by me, and let me hold your
hand.  You are big and strong, and you look brave.  It will reassure me.  I am not myself a
coward, but to-night fear has got me by the throat.  I can hardly breathe.  Do let me stay
till I am warm.  If you only knew what I have gone through, and have to go through still, I
am sure you would pity me and help me."

To say that I was astonished would be a mild description of my feelings. I was not shocked.
The life which I have led was not one which makes for prudery.  To travel in strange places
amongst strange peoples with strange views of their own is to have odd experiences and peculiar
adventures now and again; a man without human passions is not the type necessary for an adventurous
life, such as I myself have had.  But even a man of passions and experiences can, when he respects
a woman, be shocked--even prudish--where his own opinion of her is concerned.  Such must bring
to her guarding any generosity which he has, and any self-restraint also.  Even should she
place herself in a doubtful position, her honour calls to his honour.  This is a call which
may not be--must not be--unanswered.  Even passion must pause for at least a while at sound
of such a trumpet-call.

This woman I did respect--much respect.  Her youth and beauty; her manifest ignorance of evil;
her superb disdain of convention, which could only come through hereditary dignity; her terrible
fear and suffering--for there must be more in her unhappy condition than meets the eye--would
all demand respect, even if one did not hasten to yield it. Nevertheless, I thought it necessary
to enter a protest against her embarrassing suggestion.  I certainly did feel a fool when making
it, also a cad.  I can truly say it was made only for her good, and out of the best of me,
such as I am.  I felt impossibly awkward; and stuttered and stumbled before I spoke:

"But surely--the convenances!  Your being here alone at night!  Mrs. Grundy--convention--the--"

She interrupted me with an incomparable dignity--a dignity which had the effect of shutting
me up like a clasp-knife and making me feel a decided inferior--and a poor show at that.  There
was such a gracious simplicity and honesty in it, too, such self-respecting knowledge of herself
and her position, that I could be neither angry nor hurt.  I could only feel ashamed of myself,
and of my own littleness of mind and morals.  She seemed in her icy coldness--now spiritual
as well as bodily--like an incarnate figure of Pride as she answered:

"What are convenances or conventions to me!  If you only knew where I have come from--the existence
(if it can be called so) which I have had--the loneliness--the horror!  And besides, it is
for me to make conventions, not to yield my personal freedom of action to them.  Even as I
am--even here and in this garb--I am above convention.  Convenances do not trouble me or hamper
me.  That, at least, I have won by what I have gone through, even if it had never come to me
through any other way.  Let me stay."  She said the last words, in spite of all her pride,
appealingly.  But still, there was a note of high pride in all this--in all she said and did,
in her attitude and movement, in the tones of her voice, in the loftiness of her carriage and
the steadfast look of her open, starlit eyes.  Altogether, there was something so rarely lofty
in herself and all that clad her that, face to face with it and with her, my feeble attempt
at moral precaution seemed puny, ridiculous, and out of place.  Without a word in the doing,
I took from an old chiffonier chest an armful of blankets, several of which I threw over her
as she lay, for in the meantime, having replaced the coverlet, she had lain down at length
on the bed.  I took a chair, and sat down beside her.  When she stretched out her hand from
beneath the pile of wraps, I took it in mine, saying:

"Get warm and rest.  Sleep if you can.  You need not fear; I shall guard you with my life."

She looked at me gratefully, her starry eyes taking a new light more full of illumination than
was afforded by the wax candle, which was shaded from her by my body . . . She was horribly
cold, and her teeth chattered so violently that I feared lest she should have incurred some
dangerous evil from her wetting and the cold that followed it.  I felt, however, so awkward
that I could find no words to express my fears; moreover, I hardly dared say anything at all
regarding herself after the haughty way in which she had received my well-meant protest.  Manifestly
I was but to her as a sort of refuge and provider of heat, altogether impersonal, and not to
be regarded in any degree as an individual.  In these humiliating circumstances what could
I do but sit quiet--and wait developments?

Little by little the fierce chattering of her teeth began to abate as the warmth of her surroundings
stole through her.  I also felt, even in this strangely awakening position, the influence of
the quiet; and sleep began to steal over me.  Several times I tried to fend it off, but, as
I could not make any overt movement without alarming my strange and beautiful companion, I
had to yield myself to drowsiness.  I was still in such an overwhelming stupor of surprise
that I could not even think freely. There was nothing for me but to control myself and wait.
Before I could well fix my thoughts I was asleep.

I was recalled to consciousness by hearing, even through the pall of sleep that bound me, the
crowing of a cock in some of the out-offices of the castle.  At the same instant the figure,
lying deathly still but for the gentle heaving of her bosom, began to struggle wildly.  The
sound had won through the gates of her sleep also.  With a swift, gliding motion she slipped
from the bed to the floor, saying in a fierce whisper as she pulled herself up to her full height:

"Let me out!  I must go!  I must go!"

By this time I was fully awake, and the whole position of things came to me in an instant which
I shall never--can never--forget: the dim light of the candle, now nearly burned down to the
socket, all the dimmer from the fact that the first grey gleam of morning was stealing in round
the edges of the heavy curtain; the tall, slim figure in the brown dressing-gown whose over-length
trailed on the floor, the black hair showing glossy in the light, and increasing by contrast
the marble whiteness of the face, in which the black eyes sent through their stars fiery gleams.
She appeared quite in a frenzy of haste; her eagerness was simply irresistible.

I was so stupefied with amazement, as well as with sleep, that I did not attempt to stop her,
but began instinctively to help her by furthering her wishes.  As she ran behind the screen,
and, as far as sound could inform me,--began frantically to disrobe herself of the warm dressing-gown
and to don again the ice-cold wet shroud, I pulled back the curtain from the window, and drew
the bolt of the glass door.  As I did so she was already behind me, shivering.  As I threw
open the door she glided out with a swift silent movement, but trembling in an agonized way.
As she passed me, she murmured in a low voice, which was almost lost in the chattering of her
teeth:

"Oh, thank you--thank you a thousand times!  But I must go.  I must!  I must!  I shall come
again, and try to show my gratitude.  Do not condemn me as ungrateful--till then."  And she
was gone.

I watched her pass the length of the white path, flitting from shrub to shrub or statue as
she had come.  In the cold grey light of the undeveloped dawn she seemed even more ghostly
than she had done in the black shadow of the night.

When she disappeared from sight in the shadow of the wood, I stood on the terrace for a long
time watching, in case I should be afforded another glimpse of her, for there was now no doubt
in my mind that she had for me some strange attraction.  I felt even then that the look in
those glorious starry eyes would be with me always so long as I might live. There was some
fascination which went deeper than my eyes or my flesh or my heart--down deep into the very
depths of my soul.  My mind was all in a whirl, so that I could hardly think coherently.  It
all was like a dream; the reality seemed far away.  It was not possible to doubt that the phantom
figure which had been so close to me during the dark hours of the night was actual flesh and
blood.  Yet she was so cold, so cold! Altogether I could not fix my mind to either proposition:
that it was a living woman who had held my hand, or a dead body reanimated for the time or
the occasion in some strange manner.

The difficulty was too great for me to make up my mind upon it, even had I wanted to.  But,
in any case, I did not want to.  This would, no doubt, come in time.  But till then I wished
to dream on, as anyone does in a dream which can still be blissful though there be pauses of
pain, or ghastliness, or doubt, or terror.

So I closed the window and drew the curtain again, feeling for the first time the cold in which
I had stood on the wet marble floor of the terrace when my bare feet began to get warm on the
soft carpet.  To get rid of the chill feeling I got into the bed on which she had lain, and
as the warmth restored me tried to think coherently.  For a short while I was going over the
facts of the night--or what seemed as facts to my remembrance.  But as I continued to think,
the possibilities of any result seemed to get less, and I found myself vainly trying to reconcile
with the logic of life the grim episode of the night.  The effort proved to be too much for
such concentration as was left to me; moreover, interrupted sleep was clamant, and would not
be denied.  What I dreamt of--if I dreamt at all--I know not.  I only know that I was ready
for waking when the time came.  It came with a violent knocking at my door. I sprang from bed,
fully awake in a second, drew the bolt, and slipped back to bed.  With a hurried "May I come
in?" Aunt Janet entered.  She seemed relieved when she saw me, and gave without my asking an
explanation of her perturbation:

"Oh, laddie, I hae been so uneasy aboot ye all the nicht.  I hae had dreams an' veesions an'
a' sorts o' uncanny fancies.  I fear that--"  She was by now drawing back the curtain, and
as her eyes took in the marks of wet all over the floor the current of her thoughts changed:

"Why, laddie, whativer hae ye been doin' wi' yer baith?  Oh, the mess ye hae made!  'Tis sinful
to gie sic trouble an' waste . . . "  And so she went on.  I was glad to hear the tirade, which
was only what a good housewife, outraged in her sentiments of order, would have made.  I listened
in patience--with pleasure when I thought of what she would have thought (and said) had she
known the real facts.  I was well pleased to have got off so easily.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                         April 10, 1907.

For some days after what I call "the episode" I was in a strange condition of mind.  I did
not take anyone--not even Aunt Janet--into confidence.  Even she dear, and open-hearted and
liberal-minded as she is, might not have understood well enough to be just and tolerant; and
I did not care to hear any adverse comment on my strange visitor.  Somehow I could not bear
the thought of anyone finding fault with her or in her, though, strangely enough, I was eternally
defending her to myself; for, despite my wishes, embarrassing thoughts would come again and
again, and again in all sorts and variants of queries difficult to answer.  I found myself
defending her, sometimes as a woman hard pressed by spiritual fear and physical suffering,
sometimes as not being amenable to laws that govern the Living.  Indeed, I could not make up
my mind whether I looked on her as a living human being or as one with some strange existence
in another world, and having only a chance foothold in our own. In such doubt imagination began
to work, and thoughts of evil, of danger, of doubt, even of fear, began to crowd on me with
such persistence and in such varied forms that I found my instinct of reticence growing into
a settled purpose.  The value of this instinctive precaution was promptly shown by Aunt Janet's
state of mind, with consequent revelation of it. She became full of gloomy prognostications
and what I thought were morbid fears.  For the first time in my life I discovered that Aunt
Janet had nerves!  I had long had a secret belief that she was gifted, to some degree at any
rate, with Second Sight, which quality, or whatever it is, skilled in the powers if not the
lore of superstition, manages to keep at stretch not only the mind of its immediate pathic,
but of others relevant to it.  Perhaps this natural quality had received a fresh impetus from
the arrival of some cases of her books sent on by Sir Colin.  She appeared to read and reread
these works, which were chiefly on occult subjects, day and night, except when she was imparting
to me choice excerpts of the most baleful and fearsome kind.  Indeed, before a week was over
I found myself to be an expert in the history of the cult, as well as in its manifestations,
which latter I had been versed in for a good many years.

The result of all this was that it set me brooding.  Such, at least, I gathered was the fact
when Aunt Janet took me to task for it.  She always speaks out according to her convictions,
so that her thinking I brooded was to me a proof that I did; and after a personal examination
I came--reluctantly--to the conclusion that she was right, so far, at any rate, as my outer
conduct was concerned.  The state of mind I was in, however, kept me from making any acknowledgment
of it--the real cause of my keeping so much to myself and of being so distrait.  And so I went
on, torturing myself as before with introspective questioning; and she, with her mind set on
my actions, and endeavouring to find a cause for them, continued and expounded her beliefs
and fears.

Her nightly chats with me when we were alone after dinner--for I had come to avoid her questioning
at other times--kept my imagination at high pressure.  Despite myself, I could not but find
new cause for concern in the perennial founts of her superstition.  I had thought, years ago,
that I had then sounded the depths of this branch of psychicism; but this new phase of thought,
founded on the really deep hold which the existence of my beautiful visitor and her sad and
dreadful circumstances had taken upon me, brought me a new concern in the matter of self-importance.
I came to think that I must reconstruct my self-values, and begin a fresh understanding of
ethical beliefs.  Do what I would, my mind would keep turning on the uncanny subjects brought
before it.  I began to apply them one by one to my own late experience, and unconsciously to
try to fit them in turn to the present case.

The effect of this brooding was that I was, despite my own will, struck by the similarity of
circumstances bearing on my visitor, and the conditions apportioned by tradition and superstition
to such strange survivals from earlier ages as these partial existences which are rather Undead
than Living--still walking the earth, though claimed by the world of the Dead.  Amongst them
are the Vampire, or the Wehr-Wolf.  To this class also might belong in a measure the Doppelganger--one
of whose dual existences commonly belongs to the actual world around it.  So, too, the denizens
of the world of Astralism.  In any of these named worlds there is a material presence--which
must be created, if only for a single or periodic purpose.  It matters not whether a material
presence already created can be receptive of a disembodied soul, or a soul unattached can have
a body built up for it or around it; or, again, whether the body of a dead person can be made
seeming quick through some diabolic influence manifested in the present, or an inheritance
or result of some baleful use of malefic power in the past.  The result is the same in each
case, though the ways be widely different: a soul and a body which are not in unity but brought
together for strange purposes through stranger means and by powers still more strange.

Through much thought and a process of exclusions the eerie form which seemed to be most in
correspondence with my adventure, and most suitable to my fascinating visitor, appeared to
be the Vampire.  Doppelganger, Astral creations, and all such-like, did not comply with the
conditions of my night experience.  The Wehr-Wolf is but a variant of the Vampire, and so needed
not to be classed or examined at all.  Then it was that, thus focussed, the Lady of the Shroud
(for so I came to hold her in my mind) began to assume a new force.  Aunt Janet's library afforded
me clues which I followed with avidity.  In my secret heart I hated the quest, and did not
wish to go on with it.  But in this I was not my own master.  Do what I would--brush away doubts
never so often, new doubts and imaginings came in their stead.  The circumstance almost repeated
the parable of the Seven Devils who took the place of the exorcised one. Doubts I could stand.
Imaginings I could stand.  But doubts and imaginings together made a force so fell that I was
driven to accept any reading of the mystery which might presumably afford a foothold for satisfying
thought.  And so I came to accept tentatively the Vampire theory--accept it, at least, so far
as to examine it as judicially as was given me to do.  As the days wore on, so the conviction
grew.  The more I read on the subject, the more directly the evidences pointed towards this
view.  The more I thought, the more obstinate became the conviction.  I ransacked Aunt Janet's
volumes again and again to find anything to the contrary; but in vain.  Again, no matter how
obstinate were my convictions at any given time, unsettlement came with fresh thinking over
the argument, so that I was kept in a harassing state of uncertainty.

Briefly, the evidence in favour of accord between the facts of the case and the Vampire theory
were:

Her coming was at night--the time the Vampire is according to the theory, free to move at will.

She wore her shroud--a necessity of coming fresh from grave or tomb; for there is nothing occult
about clothing which is not subject to astral or other influences.

She had to be helped into my room--in strict accordance with what one sceptical critic of occultism
has called "the Vampire etiquette."

She made violent haste in getting away at cock-crow.

She seemed preternaturally cold; her sleep was almost abnormal in intensity, and yet the sound
of the cock-crowing came through it.

These things showed her to be subject to some laws, though not in exact accord within those
which govern human beings.  Under the stress of such circumstances as she must have gone through,
her vitality seemed more than human--the quality of vitality which could outlive ordinary burial.
Again, such purpose as she had shown in donning, under stress of some compelling direction,
her ice-cold wet shroud, and, wrapt in it, going out again into the night, was hardly normal
for a woman.

But if so, and if she was indeed a Vampire, might not whatever it may be that holds such beings
in thrall be by some means or other exorcised?  To find the means must be my next task.  I
am actually pining to see her again.  Never before have I been stirred to my depths by anyone.
Come it from Heaven or Hell, from the Earth or the Grave, it does not matter; I shall make
it my task to win her back to life and peace.  If she be indeed a Vampire, the task may be
hard and long; if she be not so, and if it be merely that circumstances have so gathered round
her as to produce that impression, the task may be simpler and the result more sweet.  No,
not more sweet; for what can be more sweet than to restore the lost or seemingly lost soul
of the woman you love!  There, the truth is out at last!  I suppose that I have fallen in love
with her.  If so, it is too late for me to fight against it.  I can only wait with what patience
I can till I see her again.  But to that end I can do nothing.  I know absolutely nothing about
her--not even her name.  Patience!

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                         April 16, 1907.

The only relief I have had from the haunting anxiety regarding the Lady of the Shroud has been
in the troubled state of my adopted country. There has evidently been something up which I
have not been allowed to know.  The mountaineers are troubled and restless; are wandering about,
singly and in parties, and holding meetings in strange places.  This is what I gather used
to be in old days when intrigues were on foot with Turks, Greeks, Austrians, Italians, Russians.
This concerns me vitally, for my mind has long been made up to share the fortunes of the Land
of the Blue Mountains.  For good or ill I mean to stay here: J'y suis, j'y reste.  I share
henceforth the lot of the Blue Mountaineers; and not Turkey, nor Greece, nor Austria, nor Italy,
nor Russia--no, not France nor Germany either; not man nor God nor Devil shall drive me from
my purpose.  With these patriots I throw in my lot!  My only difficulty seemed at first to
be with the men themselves.  They are so proud that at the beginning I feared they would not
even accord me the honour of being one of them!  However, things always move on somehow, no
matter what difficulties there be at the beginning.  Never mind!  When one looks back at an
accomplished fact the beginning is not to be seen--and if it were it would not matter.  It
is not of any account, anyhow.

I heard that there was going to be a great meeting near here yesterday afternoon, and I attended
it.  I think it was a success.  If such is any proof, I felt elated as well as satisfied when
I came away.  Aunt Janet's Second Sight on the subject was comforting, though grim, and in
a measure disconcerting.  When I was saying good-night she asked me to bend down my head. 
As I did so, she laid her hands on it and passed them all over it. I heard her say to herself:

"Strange!  There's nothing there; yet I could have sworn I saw it!"  I asked her to explain,
but she would not.  For once she was a little obstinate, and refused point blank to even talk
of the subject.  She was not worried nor unhappy; so I had no cause for concern.  I said nothing,
but I shall wait and see.  Most mysteries become plain or disappear altogether in time.  But
about the meeting--lest I forget!

When I joined the mountaineers who had assembled, I really think they were glad to see me;
though some of them seemed adverse, and others did not seem over well satisfied.  However,
absolute unity is very seldom to be found.  Indeed, it is almost impossible; and in a free
community is not altogether to be desired.  When it is apparent, the gathering lacks that sense
of individual feeling which makes for the real consensus of opinion--which is the real unity
of purpose.  The meeting was at first, therefore, a little cold and distant.  But presently
it began to thaw, and after some fiery harangues I was asked to speak.  Happily, I had begun
to learn the Balkan language as soon as ever Uncle Roger's wishes had been made known to me,
and as I have some facility of tongues and a great deal of experience, I soon began to know
something of it.  Indeed, when I had been here a few weeks, with opportunity of speaking daily
with the people themselves, and learned to understand the intonations and vocal inflexions,
I felt quite easy in speaking it.  I understood every word which had up to then been spoken
at the meeting, and when I spoke myself I felt that they understood.  That is an experience
which every speaker has in a certain way and up to a certain point.  He knows by some kind
of instinct if his hearers are with him; if they respond, they must certainly have understood.
Last night this was marked.  I felt it every instant I was talking and when I came to realize
that the men were in strict accord with my general views, I took them into confidence with
regard to my own personal purpose.  It was the beginning of a mutual trust; so for peroration
I told them that I had come to the conclusion that what they wanted most for their own protection
and the security and consolidation of their nation was arms--arms of the very latest pattern.
Here they interrupted me with wild cheers, which so strung me up that I went farther than I
intended, and made a daring venture.  "Ay," I repeated, "the security and consolidation of
your country--of our country, for I have come to live amongst you.  Here is my home whilst
I live.  I am with you heart and soul.  I shall live with you, fight shoulder to shoulder with
you, and, if need be, shall die with you!" Here the shouting was terrific, and the younger
men raised their guns to fire a salute in Blue Mountain fashion.  But on the instant the Vladika
{1} held up his hands and motioned them to desist.  In the immediate silence he spoke, sharply
at first, but later ascending to a high pitch of single-minded, lofty eloquence.  His words
rang in my ears long after the meeting was over and other thoughts had come between them and
the present.

"Silence!" he thundered.  "Make no echoes in the forest or through the hills at this dire time
of stress and threatened danger to our land. Bethink ye of this meeting, held here and in secret,
in order that no whisper of it may be heard afar.  Have ye all, brave men of the Blue Mountains,
come hither through the forest like shadows that some of you, thoughtless, may enlighten your
enemies as to our secret purpose?  The thunder of your guns would doubtless sound well in the
ears of those who wish us ill and try to work us wrong.  Fellow-countrymen, know ye not that
the Turk is awake once more for our harming?  The Bureau of Spies has risen from the torpor
which came on it when the purpose against our Teuta roused our mountains to such anger that
the frontiers blazed with passion, and were swept with fire and sword.  Moreover, there is
a traitor somewhere in the land, or else incautious carelessness has served the same base purpose.
Something of our needs--our doing, whose secret we have tried to hide, has gone out.  The myrmidons
of the Turk are close on our borders, and it may be that some of them have passed our guards
and are amidst us unknown.  So it behoves us doubly to be discreet. Believe me that I share
with you, my brothers, our love for the gallant Englishman who has come amongst us to share
our sorrows and ambitions--and I trust it may be our joys.  We are all united in the wish to
do him honour--though not in the way by which danger might be carried on the wings of love.
My brothers, our newest brother comes to us from the Great Nation which amongst the nations
has been our only friend, and which has ere now helped us in our direst need--that mighty Britain
whose hand has ever been raised in the cause of freedom.  We of the Blue Mountains know her
best as she stands with sword in hand face to face with our foes.  And this, her son and now
our brother, brings further to our need the hand of a giant and the heart of a lion.  Later
on, when danger does not ring us round, when silence is no longer our outer guard; we shall
bid him welcome in true fashion of our land.  But till then he will believe--for he is great-hearted--that
our love and thanks and welcome are not to be measured by sound.  When the time comes, then
shall be sound in his honour--not of rifles alone, but bells and cannon and the mighty voice
of a free people shouting as one.  But now we must be wise and silent, for the Turk is once
again at our gates.  Alas! the cause of his former coming may not be, for she whose beauty
and nobility and whose place in our nation and in our hearts tempted him to fraud and violence
is not with us to share even our anxiety."

Here his voice broke, and there arose from all a deep wailing sound, which rose and rose till
the woods around us seemed broken by a mighty and long-sustained sob.  The orator saw that
his purpose was accomplished, and with a short sentence finished his harangue: "But the need
of our nation still remains!"  Then, with an eloquent gesture to me to proceed, he merged in
the crowd and disappeared.

How could I even attempt to follow such a speaker with any hope of success?  I simply told
them what I had already done in the way of help, saying:

"As you needed arms, I have got them.  My agent sends me word through the code between us that
he has procured for me--for us--fifty thousand of the newest-pattern rifles, the French Ingis-Malbron,
which has surpassed all others, and sufficient ammunition to last for a year of war.  The first
section is in hand, and will soon be ready for consignment.  There are other war materials,
too, which, when they arrive, will enable every man and woman--even the children--of our land
to take a part in its defence should such be needed.  My brothers, I am with you in all things,
for good or ill!"

It made me very proud to hear the mighty shout which arose.  I had felt exalted before, but
now this personal development almost unmanned me.  I was glad of the long-sustained applause
to recover my self-control.

I was quite satisfied that the meeting did not want to hear any other speaker, for they began
to melt away without any formal notification having been given.  I doubt if there will be another
meeting soon again. The weather has begun to break, and we are in for another spell of rain.
It is disagreeable, of course; but it has its own charm.  It was during a spell of wet weather
that the Lady of the Shroud came to me.  Perhaps the rain may bring her again.  I hope so,
with all my soul.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                         April 23, 1907.

The rain has continued for four whole days and nights, and the low-lying ground is like a quagmire
in places.  In the sunlight the whole mountains glisten with running streams and falling water.
I feel a strange kind of elation, but from no visible cause.  Aunt Janet rather queered it
by telling me, as she said good-night, to be very careful of myself, as she had seen in a dream
last night a figure in a shroud.  I fear she was not pleased that I did not take it with all
the seriousness that she did.  I would not wound her for the world if I could help it, but
the idea of a shroud gets too near the bone to be safe, and I had to fend her off at all hazards.
So when I doubted if the Fates regarded the visionary shroud as of necessity appertaining to
me, she said, in a way that was, for her, almost sharp:

"Take care, laddie.  'Tis ill jesting wi' the powers o' time Unknown."

Perhaps it was that her talk put the subject in my mind.  The woman needed no such aid; she
was always there; but when I locked myself into my room that night, I half expected to find
her in the room.  I was not sleepy, so I took a book of Aunt Janet's and began to read.  The
title was "On the Powers and Qualities of Disembodied Spirits."  "Your grammar," said I to
the author, "is hardly attractive, but I may learn something which might apply to her.  I shall
read your book."  Before settling down to it, however, I thought I would have a look at the
garden.  Since the night of the visit the garden seemed to have a new attractiveness for me:
a night seldom passed without my having a last look at it before turning in.  So I drew the
great curtain and looked out.

The scene was beautiful, but almost entirely desolate.  All was ghastly in the raw, hard gleams
of moonlight coming fitfully through the masses of flying cloud.  The wind was rising, and
the air was damp and cold.  I looked round the room instinctively, and noticed that the fire
was laid ready for lighting, and that there were small-cut logs of wood piled beside the hearth.
Ever since that night I have had a fire laid ready. I was tempted to light it, but as I never
have a fire unless I sleep in the open, I hesitated to begin.  I went back to the window, and,
opening the catch, stepped out on the terrace.  As I looked down the white walk and let my
eyes range over the expanse of the garden, where everything glistened as the moonlight caught
the wet, I half expected to see some white figure flitting amongst the shrubs and statues.
The whole scene of the former visit came back to me so vividly that I could hardly believe
that any time had passed since then.  It was the same scene, and again late in the evening.
Life in Vissarion was primitive, and early hours prevailed--though not so late as on that night.

As I looked I thought I caught a glimpse of something white far away.  It was only a ray of
moonlight coming through the rugged edge of a cloud. But all the same it set me in a strange
state of perturbation.  Somehow I seemed to lose sight of my own identity.  It was as though
I was hypnotized by the situation or by memory, or perhaps by some occult force.  Without thinking
of what I was doing, or being conscious of any reason for it, I crossed the room and set light
to the fire.  Then I blew out the candle and came to the window again.  I never thought it
might be a foolish thing to do--to stand at a window with a light behind me in this country,
where every man carries a gun with him always.  I was in my evening clothes, too, with my breast
well marked by a white shirt.  I opened the window and stepped out on the terrace.  There I
stood for many minutes, thinking.  All the time my eyes kept ranging over the garden. Once
I thought I saw a white figure moving, but it was not followed up, so, becoming conscious that
it was again beginning to rain, I stepped back into the room, shut the window, and drew the
curtain.  Then I realized the comforting appearance of the fire, and went over and stood before it.

Hark!  Once more there was a gentle tapping at the window.  I rushed over to it and drew the
curtain.

There, out on the rain-beaten terrace, stood the white shrouded figure, more desolate-appearing
than ever.  Ghastly pale she looked, as before, but her eyes had an eager look which was new.
I took it that she was attracted by the fire, which was by now well ablaze, and was throwing
up jets of flame as the dry logs crackled.  The leaping flames threw fitful light across the
room, and every gleam threw the white-clad figure into prominence, showing the gleam of the
black eyes, and fixing the stars that lay in them.

Without a word I threw open the window, and, taking the white hand extended to me, drew into
the room the Lady of the Shroud.

As she entered and felt the warmth of the blazing fire, a glad look spread over her face. 
She made a movement as if to run to it.  But she drew back an instant after, looking round
with instinctive caution.  She closed the window and bolted it, touched the lever which spread
the grille across the opening, and pulled close the curtain behind it.  Then she went swiftly
to the door and tried if it was locked.  Satisfied as to this, she came quickly over to the
fire, and, kneeling before it, stretched out her numbed hands to the blaze.  Almost on the
instant her wet shroud began to steam.  I stood wondering.  The precautions of secrecy in the
midst of her suffering--for that she did suffer was only too painfully manifest--must have
presupposed some danger.  Then and there my mind was made up that there should no harm assail
her that I by any means could fend off.  Still, the present must be attended to; pneumonia
and other ills stalked behind such a chill as must infallibly come on her unless precautions
were taken.  I took again the dressing-gown which she had worn before and handed it to her,
motioning as I did so towards the screen which had made a dressing-room for her on the former
occasion.  To my surprise she hesitated.  I waited.  She waited, too, and then laid down the
dressing-gown on the edge of the stone fender.  So I spoke:

"Won't you change as you did before?  Your--your frock can then be dried. Do!  It will be so
much safer for you to be dry clad when you resume your own dress."

"How can I whilst you are here?"

Her words made me stare, so different were they from her acts of the other visit.  I simply
bowed--speech on such a subject would be at least inadequate--and walked over to the window.
Passing behind the curtain, I opened the window.  Before stepping out on to the terrace, I
looked into the room and said:

"Take your own time.  There is no hurry.  I dare say you will find there all you may want.
I shall remain on the terrace until you summon me." With that I went out on the terrace, drawing
close the glass door behind me.

I stood looking out on the dreary scene for what seemed a very short time, my mind in a whirl.
There came a rustle from within, and I saw a dark brown figure steal round the edge of the
curtain.  A white hand was raised, and beckoned me to come in.  I entered, bolting the window
behind me.  She had passed across the room, and was again kneeling before the fire with her
hands outstretched.  The shroud was laid in partially opened folds on one side of the hearth,
and was steaming heavily.  I brought over some cushions and pillows, and made a little pile
of them beside her.

"Sit there," I said, "and rest quietly in the heat."  It may have been the effect of the glowing
heat, but there was a rich colour in her face as she looked at me with shining eyes.  Without
a word, but with a courteous little bow, she sat down at once.  I put a thick rug across her
shoulders, and sat down myself on a stool a couple of feet away.

For fully five or six minutes we sat in silence.  At last, turning her head towards me she
said in a sweet, low voice:

"I had intended coming earlier on purpose to thank you for your very sweet and gracious courtesy
to me, but circumstances were such that I could not leave my--my"--she hesitated before saying--"my
abode.  I am not free, as you and others are, to do what I will.  My existence is sadly cold
and stern, and full of horrors that appal.  But I do thank you.  For myself I am not sorry
for the delay, for every hour shows me more clearly how good and understanding and sympathetic
you have been to me.  I only hope that some day you may realize how kind you have been, and
how much I appreciate it."

"I am only too glad to be of any service," I said, feebly I felt, as I held out my hand.  She
did not seem to see it.  Her eyes were now on the fire, and a warm blush dyed forehead and
cheek and neck.  The reproof was so gentle that no one could have been offended.  It was evident
that she was something coy and reticent, and would not allow me to come at present more close
to her, even to the touching of her hand.  But that her heart was not in the denial was also
evident in the glance from her glorious dark starry eyes.  These glances--veritable lightning
flashes coming through her pronounced reserve--finished entirely any wavering there might be
in my own purpose.  I was aware now to the full that my heart was quite subjugated.  I knew
that I was in love--veritably so much in love as to feel that without this woman, be she what
she might, by my side my future must be absolutely barren.

It was presently apparent that she did not mean to stay as long on this occasion as on the
last.  When the castle clock struck midnight she suddenly sprang to her feet with a bound, saying:

"I must go!  There is midnight!"  I rose at once, the intensity of her speech having instantly
obliterated the sleep which, under the influence of rest and warmth, was creeping upon me.
Once more she was in a frenzy of haste, so I hurried towards the window, but as I looked back
saw her, despite her haste, still standing.  I motioned towards the screen, and slipping behind
the curtain, opened the window and went out on the terrace.  As I was disappearing behind the
curtain I saw her with the tail of my eye lifting the shroud, now dry, from the hearth.

She was out through the window in an incredibly short time, now clothed once more in that dreadful
wrapping.  As she sped past me barefooted on the wet, chilly marble which made her shudder,
she whispered:

"Thank you again.  You are good to me.  You can understand."

Once again I stood on the terrace, saw her melt like a shadow down the steps, and disappear
behind the nearest shrub.  Thence she flitted away from point to point with exceeding haste.
The moonlight had now disappeared behind heavy banks of cloud, so there was little light to
see by.  I could just distinguish a pale gleam here and there as she wended her secret way.

For a long time I stood there alone thinking, as I watched the course she had taken, and wondering
where might be her ultimate destination.  As she had spoken of her "abode," I knew there was
some definitive objective of her flight.

It was no use wondering.  I was so entirely ignorant of her surroundings that I had not even
a starting-place for speculation.  So I went in, leaving the window open.  It seemed that this
being so made one barrier the less between us.  I gathered the cushions and rugs from before
the fire, which was no longer leaping, but burning with a steady glow, and put them back in
their places.  Aunt Janet might come in the morning, as she had done before, and I did not
wish to set her thinking.  She is much too clever a person to have treading on the heels of
a mystery--especially one in which my own affections are engaged.  I wonder what she would
have said had she seen me kiss the cushion on which my beautiful guest's head had rested?

When I was in bed, and in the dark save for the fading glow of the fire, my thoughts became
fixed that whether she came from Earth or Heaven or Hell, my lovely visitor was already more
to me than aught else in the world.  This time she had, on going, said no word of returning.
I had been so much taken up with her presence, and so upset by her abrupt departure, that I
had omitted to ask her.  And so I am driven, as before, to accept the chance of her returning--a
chance which I fear I am or may be unable to control.

Surely enough Aunt Janet did come in the morning, early.  I was still asleep when she knocked
at my door.  With that purely physical subconsciousness which comes with habit I must have
realized the cause of the sound, for I woke fully conscious of the fact that Aunt Janet had
knocked and was waiting to come in.  I jumped from bed, and back again when I had unlocked
the door.  When Aunt Janet came in she noticed the cold of the room.

"Save us, laddie, but ye'll get your death o' cold in this room."  Then, as she looked round
and noticed the ashes of the extinct fire in the grate:

"Eh, but ye're no that daft after a'; ye've had the sense to light yer fire.  Glad I am that
we had the fire laid and a wheen o' dry logs ready to yer hand."  She evidently felt the cold
air coming from the window, for she went over and drew the curtain.  When she saw the open
window, she raised her hands in a sort of dismay, which to me, knowing how little base for
concern could be within her knowledge, was comic.  Hurriedly she shut the window, and then,
coming close over to my bed, said:

"Yon has been a fearsome nicht again, laddie, for yer poor auld aunty."

"Dreaming again, Aunt Janet?" I asked--rather flippantly as it seemed to me.  She shook her head:

"Not so, Rupert, unless it be that the Lord gies us in dreams what we in our spiritual darkness
think are veesions."  I roused up at this.  When Aunt Janet calls me Rupert, as she always
used to do in my dear mother's time, things are serious with her.  As I was back in childhood
now, recalled by her word, I thought the best thing I could do to cheer her would be to bring
her back there too--if I could.  So I patted the edge of the bed as I used to do when I was
a wee kiddie and wanted her to comfort me, and said:

"Sit down, Aunt Janet, and tell me."  She yielded at once, and the look of the happy old days
grew over her face as though there had come a gleam of sunshine.  She sat down, and I put out
my hands as I used to do, and took her hand between them.  There was a tear in her eye as she
raised my hand and kissed it as in old times.  But for the infinite pathos of it, it would
have been comic:

Aunt Janet, old and grey-haired, but still retaining her girlish slimness of figure, petite,
dainty as a Dresden figure, her face lined with the care of years, but softened and ennobled
by the unselfishness of those years, holding up my big hand, which would outweigh her whole
arm; sitting dainty as a pretty old fairy beside a recumbent giant--for my bulk never seems
so great as when I am near this real little good fairy of my life--seven feet beside four feet
seven.

So she began as of old, as though she were about to soothe a frightened child with a fairy tale:

"'Twas a veesion, I think, though a dream it may hae been.  But whichever or whatever it was,
it concerned my little boy, who has grown to be a big giant, so much that I woke all of a tremble.
Laddie dear, I thought that I saw ye being married."  This gave me an opening, though a small
one, for comforting her, so I took it at once:

"Why, dear, there isn't anything to alarm you in that, is there?  It was only the other day
when you spoke to me about the need of my getting married, if it was only that you might have
children of your boy playing around your knees as their father used to do when he was a helpless
wee child himself."

"That is so, laddie," she answered gravely.  "But your weddin' was none so merry as I fain
would see.  True, you seemed to lo'e her wi' all yer hairt.  Yer eyes shone that bright that
ye might ha' set her afire, for all her black locks and her winsome face.  But, laddie, that
was not all--no, not though her black een, that had the licht o' all the stars o' nicht in
them, shone in yours as though a hairt o' love an' passion, too, dwelt in them.  I saw ye join
hands, an' heard a strange voice that talked stranger still, but I saw none ither.  Your eyes
an' her eyes, an' your hand an' hers, were all I saw.  For all else was dim, and the darkness
was close around ye twa.  And when the benison was spoken--I knew that by the voices that sang,
and by the gladness of her een, as well as by the pride and glory of yours--the licht began
to glow a wee more, an' I could see yer bride.  She was in a veil o' wondrous fine lace.  And
there were orange-flowers in her hair, though there were twigs, too, and there was a crown
o' flowers on head wi' a golden band round it.  And the heathen candles that stood on the table
wi' the Book had some strange effect, for the reflex o' it hung in the air o'er her head like
the shadow of a crown.  There was a gold ring on her finger and a silver one on yours."  Here
she paused and trembled, so that, hoping to dispel her fears, I said, as like as I could to
the way I used to when I was a child:

"Go on, Aunt Janet."

She did not seem to recognize consciously the likeness between past and present; but the effect
was there, for she went on more like her old self, though there was a prophetic gravity in
her voice, more marked than I had ever heard from her:

"All this I've told ye was well; but, oh, laddie, there was a dreadful lack o' livin' joy such
as I should expect from the woman whom my boy had chosen for his wife--and at the marriage
coupling, too!  And no wonder, when all is said; for though the marriage veil o' love was fine,
an' the garland o' flowers was fresh-gathered, underneath them a' was nane ither than a ghastly
shroud.  As I looked in my veesion--or maybe dream--I expectit to see the worms crawl round
the flagstane at her feet.  If 'twas not Death, laddie dear, that stood by ye, it was the shadow
o' Death that made the darkness round ye, that neither the light o' candles nor the smoke o'
heathen incense could pierce.  Oh, laddie, laddie, wae is me that I hae seen sic a veesion--waking
or sleeping, it matters not! I was sair distressed--so sair that I woke wi' a shriek on my
lips and bathed in cold sweat.  I would hae come doon to ye to see if you were hearty or no--or
even to listen at your door for any sound o' yer being quick, but that I feared to alarm ye
till morn should come.  I've counted the hours and the minutes since midnight, when I saw the
veesion, till I came hither just the now."

"Quite right, Aunt Janet," I said, "and I thank you for your kind thought for me in the matter,
now and always."  Then I went on, for I wanted to take precautions against the possibility
of her discovery of my secret. I could not bear to think that she might run my precious secret
to earth in any well-meant piece of bungling.  That would be to me disaster unbearable.  She
might frighten away altogether my beautiful visitor, even whose name or origin I did not know,
and I might never see her again:

"You must never do that, Aunt Janet.  You and I are too good friends to have sense of distrust
or annoyance come between us--which would surely happen if I had to keep thinking that you
or anyone else might be watching me."

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                         April 27, 1907.

After a spell of loneliness which has seemed endless I have something to write.  When the void
in my heart was becoming the receptacle for many devils of suspicion and distrust I set myself
a task which might, I thought, keep my thoughts in part, at any rate, occupied--to explore
minutely the neighbourhood round the Castle.  This might, I hoped, serve as an anodyne to my
pain of loneliness, which grew more acute as the days, the hours, wore on, even if it should
not ultimately afford me some clue to the whereabouts of the woman whom I had now grown to
love so madly.

My exploration soon took a systematic form, as I intended that it should be exhaustive.  I
would take every day a separate line of advance from the Castle, beginning at the south and
working round by the east to the north.  The first day only took me to the edge of the creek,
which I crossed in a boat, and landed at the base of the cliff opposite.  I found the cliffs
alone worth a visit.  Here and there were openings to caves which I made up my mind to explore
later.  I managed to climb up the cliff at a spot less beetling than the rest, and continued
my journey. It was, though very beautiful, not a specially interesting place.  I explored that
spoke of the wheel of which Vissarion was the hub, and got back just in time for dinner.

The next day I took a course slightly more to the eastward.  I had no difficulty in keeping
a straight path, for, once I had rowed across the creek, the old church of St. Sava rose before
me in stately gloom.  This was the spot where many generations of the noblest of the Land of
the Blue Mountains had from time immemorial been laid to rest, amongst them the Vissarions.
Again, I found the opposite cliffs pierced here and there with caves, some with wide openings,--others
the openings of which were partly above and partly below water.  I could, however, find no
means of climbing the cliff at this part, and had to make a long detour, following up the line
of the creek till further on I found a piece of beach from which ascent was possible.  Here
I ascended, and found that I was on a line between the Castle and the southern side of the
mountains. I saw the church of St. Sava away to my right, and not far from the edge of the
cliff.  I made my way to it at once, for as yet I had never been near it.  Hitherto my excursions
had been limited to the Castle and its many gardens and surroundings.  It was of a style with
which I was not familiar--with four wings to the points of the compass.  The great doorway,
set in a magnificent frontage of carved stone of manifestly ancient date, faced west, so that,
when one entered, he went east.  To my surprise--for somehow I expected the contrary--I found
the door open. Not wide open, but what is called ajar--manifestly not locked or barred, but
not sufficiently open for one to look in.  I entered, and after passing through a wide vestibule,
more like a section of a corridor than an ostensible entrance, made my way through a spacious
doorway into the body of the church.  The church itself was almost circular, the openings of
the four naves being spacious enough to give the appearance of the interior as a whole, being
a huge cross.  It was strangely dim, for the window openings were small and high-set, and were,
moreover, filled with green or blue glass, each window having a colour to itself.  The glass
was very old, being of the thirteenth or fourteenth century.  Such appointments as there were--for
it had a general air of desolation--were of great beauty and richness,--especially so to be
in a place--even a church--where the door lay open, and no one was to be seen.  It was strangely
silent even for an old church on a lonesome headland.  There reigned a dismal solemnity which
seemed to chill me, accustomed as I have been to strange and weird places.  It seemed abandoned,
though it had not that air of having been neglected which is so often to be noticed in old
churches.  There was none of the everlasting accumulation of dust which prevails in places
of higher cultivation and larger and more strenuous work.

In the church itself or its appending chambers I could find no clue or suggestion which could
guide me in any way in my search for the Lady of the Shroud.  Monuments there were in profusion--statues,
tablets, and all the customary memorials of the dead.  The families and dates represented were
simply bewildering.  Often the name of Vissarion was given, and the inscription which it held
I read through carefully, looking to find some enlightenment of any kind.  But all in vain:
there was nothing to see in the church itself.  So I determined to visit the crypt.  I had
no lantern or candle with me, so had to go back to the Castle to secure one.

It was strange, coming in from the sunlight, here overwhelming to one so recently accustomed
to northern skies, to note the slender gleam of the lantern which I carried, and which I had
lit inside the door.  At my first entry to the church my mind had been so much taken up with
the strangeness of the place, together with the intensity of wish for some sort of clue, that
I had really no opportunity of examining detail.  But now detail became necessary, as I had
to find the entrance to the crypt. My puny light could not dissipate the semi-Cimmerian gloom
of the vast edifice; I had to throw the feeble gleam into one after another of the dark corners.

At last I found, behind the great screen, a narrow stone staircase which seemed to wind down
into the rock.  It was not in any way secret, but being in the narrow space behind the great
screen, was not visible except when close to it.  I knew I was now close to my objective, and
began to descend.  Accustomed though I have been to all sorts of mysteries and dangers, I felt
awed and almost overwhelmed by a sense of loneliness and desolation as I descended the ancient
winding steps.  These were many in number, roughly hewn of old in the solid rock on which the
church was built.

I met a fresh surprise in finding that the door of the crypt was open. After all, this was
different from the church-door being open; for in many places it is a custom to allow all comers
at all times to find rest and comfort in the sacred place.  But I did expect that at least
the final resting-place of the historic dead would be held safe against casual intrusion. 
Even I, on a quest which was very near my heart, paused with an almost overwhelming sense of
decorum before passing through that open door.  The crypt was a huge place, strangely lofty
for a vault.  From its formation, however, I soon came to the conclusion that it was originally
a natural cavern altered to its present purpose by the hand of man.  I could hear somewhere
near the sound of running water, but I could not locate it.  Now and again at irregular intervals
there was a prolonged booming, which could only come from a wave breaking in a confined place.
The recollection then came to me of the proximity of the church to the top of the beetling
cliff, and of the half-sunk cavern entrances which pierced it.

With the gleam of my lamp to guide me, I went through and round the whole place.  There were
many massive tombs, mostly rough-hewn from great slabs or blocks of stone.  Some of them were
marble, and the cutting of all was ancient.  So large and heavy were some of them that it was
a wonder to me how they could ever have been brought to this place, to which the only entrance
was seemingly the narrow, tortuous stairway by which I had come. At last I saw near one end
of the crypt a great chain hanging.  Turning the light upward, I found that it depended from
a ring set over a wide opening, evidently made artificially.  It must have been through this
opening that the great sarcophagi had been lowered.

Directly underneath the hanging chain, which did not come closer to the ground than some eight
or ten feet, was a huge tomb in the shape of a rectangular coffer or sarcophagus.  It was open,
save for a huge sheet of thick glass which rested above it on two thick balks of dark oak,
cut to exceeding smoothness, which lay across it, one at either end.  On the far side from
where I stood each of these was joined to another oak plank, also cut smooth, which sloped
gently to the rocky floor.  Should it be necessary to open the tomb, the glass could be made
to slide along the supports and descend by the sloping planks.

Naturally curious to know what might be within such a strange receptacle, I raised the lantern,
depressing its lens so that the light might fall within.

Then I started back with a cry, the lantern slipping from my nerveless hand and falling with
a ringing sound on the great sheet of thick glass.

Within, pillowed on soft cushions, and covered with a mantle woven of white natural fleece
sprigged with tiny sprays of pine wrought in gold, lay the body of a woman--none other than
my beautiful visitor.  She was marble white, and her long black eyelashes lay on her white
cheeks as though she slept.

Without a word or a sound, save the sounds made by my hurrying feet on the stone flooring,
I fled up the steep steps, and through the dim expanse of the church, out into the bright sunlight.
I found that I had mechanically raised the fallen lamp, and had taken it with me in my flight.

My feet naturally turned towards home.  It was all instinctive.  The new horror had--for the
time, at any rate--drowned my mind in its mystery, deeper than the deepest depths of thought
or imagination.

BOOK IV: UNDER THE FLAGSTAFF

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                            May 1, 1907.

For some days after the last adventure I was in truth in a half-dazed condition, unable to
think sensibly, hardly coherently.  Indeed, it was as much as I could do to preserve something
of my habitual appearance and manner.  However, my first test happily came soon, and when I
was once through it I reacquired sufficient self-confidence to go through with my purpose.
Gradually the original phase of stupefaction passed, and I was able to look the situation in
the face.  I knew the worst now, at any rate; and when the lowest point has been reached things
must begin to mend.  Still, I was wofully sensitive regarding anything which might affect my
Lady of the Shroud, or even my opinion of her.  I even began to dread Aunt Janet's Second-Sight
visions or dreams.  These had a fatal habit of coming so near to fact that they always made
for a danger of discovery.  I had to realize now that the Lady of the Shroud might indeed be
a Vampire--one of that horrid race that survives death and carries on a life-in-death existence
eternally and only for evil.  Indeed, I began to expect that Aunt Janet would ere long have
some prophetic insight to the matter.  She had been so wonderfully correct in her prophetic
surmises with regard to both the visits to my room that it was hardly possible that she could
fail to take cognizance of this last development.

But my dread was not justified; at any rate, I had no reason to suspect that by any force or
exercise of her occult gift she might cause me concern by the discovery of my secret.  Only
once did I feel that actual danger in that respect was close to me.  That was when she came
early one morning and rapped at my door.  When I called out, "Who is that?  What is it?" she
said in an agitated way:

"Thank God, laddie, you are all right!  Go to sleep again."

Later on, when we met at breakfast, she explained that she had had a nightmare in the grey
of the morning.  She thought she had seen me in the crypt of a great church close beside a
stone coffin; and, knowing that such was an ominous subject to dream about, came as soon as
she dared to see if I was all right.  Her mind was evidently set on death and burial, for she
went on:

"By the way, Rupert, I am told that the great church on time top of the cliff across the creek
is St. Sava's, where the great people of the country used to be buried.  I want you to take
me there some day.  We shall go over it, and look at the tombs and monuments together.  I really
think I should be afraid to go alone, but it will be all right if you are with me."  This was
getting really dangerous, so I turned it aside:

"Really, Aunt Janet, I'm afraid it won't do.  If you go off to weird old churches, and fill
yourself up with a fresh supply of horrors, I don't know what will happen.  You'll be dreaming
dreadful things about me every night and neither you nor I shall get any sleep."  It went to
my heart to oppose her in any wish; and also this kind of chaffy opposition might pain her.
But I had no alternative; the matter was too serious to be allowed to proceed.  Should Aunt
Janet go to the church, she would surely want to visit the crypt.  Should she do so, and there
notice the glass-covered tomb--as she could not help doing--the Lord only knew what would happen.
She had already Second-Sighted a woman being married to me, and before I myself knew that I
had such a hope.  What might she not reveal did she know where the woman came from?  It may
have been that her power of Second Sight had to rest on some basis of knowledge or belief,
and that her vision was but some intuitive perception of my own subjective thought.  But whatever
it was it should be stopped--at all hazards.

This whole episode set me thinking introspectively, and led me gradually but imperatively to
self-analysis--not of powers, but of motives.  I found myself before long examining myself
as to what were my real intentions.  I thought at first that this intellectual process was
an exercise of pure reason; but soon discarded this as inadequate--even impossible.  Reason
is a cold manifestation; this feeling which swayed and dominated me is none other than passion,
which is quick, hot, and insistent.

As for myself, the self-analysis could lead to but one result--the expression to myself of
the reality and definiteness of an already-formed though unconscious intention.  I wished to
do the woman good--to serve her in some way--to secure her some benefit by any means, no matter
how difficult, which might be within my power.  I knew that I loved her--loved her most truly
and fervently; there was no need for self-analysis to tell me that.  And, moreover, no self-analysis,
or any other mental process that I knew of, could help my one doubt: whether she was an ordinary
woman (or an extraordinary woman, for the matter of that) in some sore and terrible straits;
or else one who lay under some dreadful condition, only partially alive, and not mistress of
herself or her acts.  Whichever her condition might be, there was in my own feeling a superfluity
of affection for her.  The self-analysis taught me one thing, at any rate--that I had for her,
to start with, an infinite pity which had softened towards her my whole being, and had already
mastered merely selfish desire.  Out of it I began to find excuses for her every act.  In the
doing so I knew now, though perhaps I did not at the time the process was going on, that my
view in its true inwardness was of her as a living woman--the woman I loved.

In the forming of our ideas there are different methods of work, as though the analogy with
material life holds good.  In the building of a house, for instance, there are many persons
employed; men of different trades and occupations--architect, builder, masons, carpenters,
plumbers, and a host of others--and all these with the officials of each guild or trade.  So
in the world of thought and feelings: knowledge and understanding come through various agents,
each competent to its task.

How far pity reacted with love I knew not; I only knew that whatever her state might be, were
she living or dead, I could find in my heart no blame for the Lady of the Shroud.  It could
not be that she was dead in the real conventional way; for, after all, the Dead do not walk
the earth in corporal substance, even if there be spirits which take the corporal form.  This
woman was of actual form and weight.  How could I doubt that, at all events--I, who had held
her in my arms?  Might it not be that she was not quite dead, and that it had been given to
me to restore her to life again?  Ah! that would be, indeed, a privilege well worth the giving
my life to accomplish.  That such a thing may be is possible.  Surely the old myths were not
absolute inventions; they must have had a basis somewhere in fact.  May not the world-old story
of Orpheus and Eurydice have been based on some deep-lying principle or power of human nature?
There is not one of us but has wished at some time to bring back the dead.  Ay, and who has
not felt that in himself or herself was power in the deep love for our dead to make them quick
again, did we but know the secret of how it was to be done?

For myself, I have seen such mysteries that I am open to conviction regarding things not yet
explained.  These have been, of course, amongst savages or those old-world people who have
brought unchecked traditions and beliefs--ay, and powers too--down the ages from the dim days
when the world was young; when forces were elemental, and Nature's handiwork was experimental
rather than completed.  Some of these wonders may have been older still than the accepted period
of our own period of creation.  May we not have to-day other wonders, different only in method,
but not more susceptible of belief?  Obi-ism and Fantee-ism have been exercised in my own presence,
and their results proved by the evidence of my own eyes and other senses.  So, too, have stranger
rites, with the same object and the same success, in the far Pacific Islands.  So, too, in
India and China, in Thibet and in the Golden Chersonese.  On all and each of these occasions
there was, on my own part, enough belief to set in motion the powers of understanding; and
there were no moral scruples to stand in the way of realization.  Those whose lives are so
spent that they achieve the reputation of not fearing man or God or devil are not deterred
in their doing or thwarted from a set purpose by things which might deter others not so equipped
for adventure.  Whatever may be before them--pleasant or painful, bitter or sweet, arduous
or facile, enjoyable or terrible, humorous or full of awe and horror--they must accept, taking
them in the onward course as a good athlete takes hurdles in his stride.  And there must be
no hesitating, no looking back.  If the explorer or the adventurer has scruples, he had better
give up that special branch of effort and come himself to a more level walk in life.  Neither
must there be regrets.  There is no need for such; savage life has this advantage: it begets
a certain toleration not to be found in conventional existence.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                            May 2, 1907.

I had heard long ago that Second Sight is a terrible gift, even to its possessor.  I am now
inclined not only to believe, but to understand it. Aunt Janet has made such a practice of
it of late that I go in constant dread of discovery of my secret.  She seems to parallel me
all the time, whatever I may do.  It is like a sort of dual existence to her; for she is her
dear old self all the time, and yet some other person with a sort of intellectual kit of telescope
and notebook, which are eternally used on me.  I know they are for me, too--for what she considers
my good. But all the same it makes an embarrassment.  Happily Second Sight cannot speak as
clearly as it sees, or, rather, as it understands.  For the translation of the vague beliefs
which it inculcates is both nebulous and uncertain--a sort of Delphic oracle which always says
things which no one can make out at the time, but which can be afterwards read in any one of
several ways.  This is all right, for in my case it is a kind of safety; but, then, Aunt Janet
is a very clever woman, and some time she herself may be able to understand.  Then she may
begin to put two and two together.  When she does that, it will not be long before she knows
more than I do of the facts of the whole affair.  And her reading of them and of the Lady of
the Shroud, round whom they circle, may not be the same as mine.  Well, that will be all right
too.  Aunt Janet loves me--God knows I have good reason to know that all through these years--and
whatever view she may take, her acts will be all I could wish.  But I shall come in for a good
lot of scolding, I am sure.  By the way, I ought to think of that; if Aunt Janet scolds me,
it is a pretty good proof that I ought to be scolded.  I wonder if I dare tell her all.  No!
It is too strange. She is only a woman, after all: and if she knew I loved . . . I wish I knew
her name, and thought--as I might myself do, only that I resist it--that she is not alive at
all.  Well, what she would either think or do beats me.  I suppose she would want to slipper
me as she used to do when I was a wee kiddie--in a different way, of course.

                                                            May 3, 1907.

I really could not go on seriously last night.  The idea of Aunt Janet giving me a licking
as in the dear old days made me laugh so much that nothing in the world seemed serious then.
Oh, Aunt Janet is all right whatever comes.  That I am sure of, so I needn't worry over it.
A good thing too; there will be plenty to worry about without that.  I shall not check her
telling me of her visions, however; I may learn something from them.

For the last four-and-twenty hours I have, whilst awake, been looking over Aunt Janet's books,
of which I brought a wheen down here.  Gee whizz!  No wonder the old dear is superstitious,
when she is filled up to the back teeth with that sort of stuff!  There may be some truth in
some of those yarns; those who wrote them may believe in them, or some of them, at all events.
But as to coherence or logic, or any sort of reasonable or instructive deduction, they might
as well have been written by so many hens!  These occult book-makers seem to gather only a
lot of bare, bald facts, which they put down in the most uninteresting way possible.  They
go by quantity only.  One story of the kind, well examined and with logical comments, would
be more convincing to a third party than a whole hecatomb of them.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                            May 4, 1907.

There is evidently something up in the country.  The mountaineers are more uneasy than they
have been as yet.  There is constant going to and fro amongst them, mostly at night and in
the grey of the morning.  I spend many hours in my room in the eastern tower, from which I
can watch the woods, and gather from signs the passing to and fro.  But with all this activity
no one has said to me a word on the subject.  It is undoubtedly a disappointment to me.  I
had hoped that the mountaineers had come to trust me; that gathering at which they wanted to
fire their guns for me gave me strong hopes.  But now it is apparent that they do not trust
me in full--as yet, at all events.  Well, I must not complain. It is all only right and just.
As yet I have done nothing to prove to them the love and devotion that I feel to the country.
I know that such individuals as I have met trust me, and I believe like me.  But the trust
of a nation is different.  That has to be won and tested; he who would win it must justify,
and in a way that only troublous times can allow. No nation will--can--give full meed of honour
to a stranger in times of peace.  Why should it?  I must not forget that I am here a stranger
in the land, and that to the great mass of people even my name is unknown. Perhaps they will
know me better when Rooke comes back with that store of arms and ammunition that he has bought,
and the little warship he has got from South America.  When they see that I hand over the whole
lot to the nation without a string on them, they may begin to believe.  In the meantime all
I can do is to wait.  It will all come right in time, I have no doubt.  And if it doesn't come
right, well, we can only die once!

Is that so?  What about my Lady of the Shroud?  I must not think of that or of her in this
gallery.  Love and war are separate, and may not mix--cannot mix, if it comes to that.  I must
be wise in the matter; and if I have got the hump in any degree whatever, must not show it.

But one thing is certain: something is up, and it must be the Turks. From what the Vladika
said at that meeting they have some intention of an attack on the Blue Mountains.  If that
be so, we must be ready; and perhaps I can help there.  The forces must be organized; we must
have some method of communication.  In this country, where are neither roads nor railways nor
telegraphs, we must establish a signalling system of some sort.  That I can begin at once.
I can make a code, or adapt one that I have used elsewhere already.  I shall rig up a semaphore
on the top of the Castle which can be seen for an enormous distance around.  I shall train
a number of men to be facile in signalling.  And then, should need come, I may be able to show
the mountaineers that I am fit to live in their hearts . . .

And all this work may prove an anodyne to pain of another kind.  It will help, at any rate,
to keep my mind occupied whilst I am waiting for another visit from my Lady of the Shroud.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           May 18, 1907.

The two weeks that have passed have been busy, and may, as time goes on, prove eventful.  I
really think they have placed me in a different position with the Blue Mountaineers--certainly
so far as those in this part of the country are concerned.  They are no longer suspicious of
me--which is much; though they have not yet received me into their confidence.  I suppose this
will come in time, but I must not try to hustle them.  Already they are willing, so far as
I can see, to use me to their own ends.  They accepted the signalling idea very readily, and
are quite willing to drill as much as I like.  This can be (and I think is, in its way) a pleasure
to them.  They are born soldiers, every man of them; and practice together is only a realization
of their own wishes and a further development of their powers.  I think I can understand the
trend of their thoughts, and what ideas of public policy lie behind them. In all that we have
attempted together as yet they are themselves in absolute power.  It rests with them to carry
out any ideas I may suggest, so they do not fear any assumption of power or governance on my
part. Thus, so long as they keep secret from me both their ideas of high policy and their immediate
intentions, I am powerless to do them ill, and I may be of service should occasion arise. 
Well, all told, this is much. Already they accept me as an individual, not merely one of the
mass.  I am pretty sure that they are satisfied of my personal bona fides.  It is policy and
not mistrust that hedges me in.  Well, policy is a matter of time.  They are a splendid people,
but if they knew a little more than they do they would understand that the wisest of all policies
is trust--when it can be given.  I must hold myself in check, and never be betrayed into a
harsh thought towards them.  Poor souls! with a thousand years behind them of Turkish aggression,
strenuously attempted by both force and fraud, no wonder they are suspicious.  Likewise every
other nation with whom they have ever come in contact--except one, my own--has deceived or
betrayed them.  Anyhow, they are fine soldiers, and before long we shall have an army that
cannot be ignored.  If I can get so that they trust me, I shall ask Sir Colin to come out here.
He would be a splendid head for their army.  His great military knowledge and tactical skill
would come in well.  It makes me glow to think of what an army he would turn out of this splendid
material, and one especially adapted for the style of fighting which would be necessary in
this country.

If a mere amateur like myself, who has only had experience of organizing the wildest kind of
savages, has been able to advance or compact their individual style of fighting into systematic
effort, a great soldier like MacKelpie will bring them to perfection as a fighting machine.
Our Highlanders, when they come out, will foregather with them, as mountaineers always do with
each other.  Then we shall have a force which can hold its own against any odds.  I only hope
that Rooke will be returning soon.  I want to see those Ingis-Malbron rifles either safely
stored in the Castle or, what is better, divided up amongst the mountaineers--a thing which
will be done at the very earliest moment that I can accomplish it.  I have a conviction that
when these men have received their arms and ammunition from me they will understand me better,
and not keep any secrets from me.

All this fortnight when I was not drilling or going about amongst the mountaineers, and teaching
them the code which I have now got perfected, I was exploring the side of the mountain nearest
to here.  I could not bear to be still.  It is torture to me to be idle in my present condition
of mind regarding my Lady of the Shroud . . . Strange I do not mind mentioning the word to
myself now.  I used to at first; but that bitterness has all gone away.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           May 19, 1907.

I was so restless early this morning that before daylight I was out exploring on the mountain-side.
By chance I came across a secret place just as the day was breaking.  Indeed, it was by the
change of light as the first sun-rays seemed to fall down the mountain-side that my attention
was called to an opening shown by a light behind it.  It was, indeed, a secret place--so secret
that I thought at first I should keep it to myself.  In such a place as this either to hide
in or to be able to prevent anyone else hiding in might on occasion be an asset of safety.

When, however, I saw indications rather than traces that someone had already used it to camp
in, I changed my mind, and thought that whenever I should get an opportunity I would tell the
Vladika of it, as he is a man on whose discretion I can rely.  If we ever have a war here or
any sort of invasion, it is just such places that may be dangerous.  Even in my own case it
is much too near the Castle to be neglected.

The indications were meagre--only where a fire had been on a little shelf of rock; and it was
not possible, through the results of burning vegetation or scorched grass, to tell how long
before the fire had been alight.  I could only guess.  Perhaps the mountaineers might be able
to tell or even to guess better than I could.  But I am not so sure of this. I am a mountaineer
myself, and with larger and more varied experience than any of them.  For myself, though I
could not be certain, I came to the conclusion that whoever had used the place had done so
not many days before.  It could not have been quite recently; but it may not have been very
long ago.  Whoever had used it had covered up his tracks well.  Even the ashes had been carefully
removed, and the place where they had lain was cleaned or swept in some way, so that there
was no trace on the spot. I applied some of my West African experience, and looked on the rough
bark of the trees to leeward, to where the agitated air, however directed, must have come,
unless it was wanted to call attention to the place by the scattered wood-ashes, however fine.
I found traces of it, but they were faint.  There had not been rain for several days; so the
dust must have been blown there since the rain had fallen, for it was still dry.

The place was a tiny gorge, with but one entrance, which was hidden behind a barren spur of
rock--just a sort of long fissure, jagged and curving, in the rock, like a fault in the stratification.
I could just struggle through it with considerable effort, holding my breath here and there,
so as to reduce my depth of chest.  Within it was tree-clad, and full of possibilities of concealment.

As I came away I marked well its direction and approaches, noting any guiding mark which might
aid in finding it by day or night.  I explored every foot of ground around it--in front, on
each side, and above.  But from nowhere could I see an indication of its existence.  It was
a veritable secret chamber wrought by the hand of Nature itself.  I did not return home till
I was familiar with every detail near and around it. This new knowledge added distinctly to
my sense of security.

Later in the day I tried to find the Vladika or any mountaineer of importance, for I thought
that such a hiding-place which had been used so recently might be dangerous, and especially
at a time when, as I had learned at the meeting where they did not fire their guns that there
may have been spies about or a traitor in the land.

Even before I came to my own room to-night I had fully made up my mind to go out early in the
morning and find some proper person to whom to impart the information, so that a watch might
be kept on the place.  It is now getting on for midnight, and when I have had my usual last
look at the garden I shall turn in.  Aunt Janet was uneasy all day, and especially so this
evening.  I think it must have been my absence at the usual breakfast-hour which got on her
nerves; and that unsatisfied mental or psychical irritation increased as the day wore on.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           May 20, 1907.

The clock on the mantelpiece in my room, which chimes on the notes of the clock at St. James's
Palace, was striking midnight when I opened the glass door on the terrace.  I had put out my
lights before I drew the curtain, as I wished to see the full effect of the moonlight.  Now
that the rainy season is over, the moon is quite as beautiful as it was in the wet, and a great
deal more comfortable.  I was in evening dress, with a smoking-jacket in lieu of a coat, and
I felt the air mild and mellow on the warm side, as I stood on the terrace.

But even in that bright moonlight the further corners of the great garden were full of mysterious
shadows.  I peered into them as well as I could--and my eyes are pretty good naturally, and
are well trained. There was not the least movement.  The air was as still as death, the foliage
as still as though wrought in stone.

I looked for quite a long time in the hope of seeing something of my Lady.  The quarters chimed
several times, but I stood on unheeding.  At last I thought I saw far off in the very corner
of the old defending wall a flicker of white.  It was but momentary, and could hardly have
accounted in itself for the way my heart beat.  I controlled myself, and stood as though I,
too, were a graven image.  I was rewarded by seeing presently another gleam of white.  And
then an unspeakable rapture stole over me as I realized that my Lady was coming as she had
come before.  I would have hurried out to meet her, but that I knew well that this would not
be in accord with her wishes.  So, thinking to please her, I drew back into the room.  I was
glad I had done so when, from the dark corner where I stood, I saw her steal up the marble
steps and stand timidly looking in at the door.  Then, after a long pause, came a whisper as
faint and sweet as the music of a distant AEolian harp:

"Are you there?  May I come in?  Answer me!  I am lonely and in fear!" For answer I emerged
from my dim corner so swiftly that she was startled. I could hear from the quivering intake
of her breath that she was striving--happily with success--to suppress a shriek.

"Come in," I said quietly.  "I was waiting for you, for I felt that you would come.  I only
came in from the terrace when I saw you coming, lest you might fear that anyone might see us.
That is not possible, but I thought you wished that I should be careful."

"I did--I do," she answered in a low, sweet voice, but very firmly.  "But never avoid precaution.
There is nothing that may not happen here. There may be eyes where we least expect--or suspect
them."  As she spoke the last words solemnly and in a low whisper, she was entering the room.
I closed the glass door and bolted it, rolled back the steel grille, and pulled the heavy curtain.
Then, when I had lit a candle, I went over and put a light to the fire.  In a few seconds the
dry wood had caught, and the flames were beginning to rise and crackle.  She had not objected
to my closing the window and drawing the curtain; neither did she make any comment on my lighting
the fire.  She simply acquiesced in it, as though it was now a matter of course.  When I made
the pile of cushions before it as on the occasion of her last visit, she sank down on them,
and held out her white, trembling hands to the warmth.

She was different to-night from what she had been on either of the two former visits.  From
her present bearing I arrived at some gauge of her self-concern, her self-respect.  Now that
she was dry, and not overmastered by wet and cold, a sweet and gracious dignity seemed to shine
from her, enwrapping her, as it were, with a luminous veil.  It was not that she was by this
made or shown as cold or distant, or in any way harsh or forbidding.  On the contrary, protected
by this dignity, she seemed much more sweet and genial than before.  It was as though she felt
that she could afford to stoop now that her loftiness was realized--that her position was recognized
and secure.  If her inherent dignity made an impenetrable nimbus round her, this was against
others; she herself was not bound by it, or to be bound.  So marked was this, so entirely and
sweetly womanly did she appear, that I caught myself wondering in flashes of thought, which
came as sharp periods of doubting judgment between spells of unconscious fascination, how I
had ever come to think she was aught but perfect woman.  As she rested, half sitting and half
lying on the pile of cushions, she was all grace, and beauty, and charm, and sweetness--the
veritable perfect woman of the dreams of a man, be he young or old.  To have such a woman sit
by his hearth and hold her holy of holies in his heart might well be a rapture to any man.
Even an hour of such entrancing joy might be well won by a lifetime of pain, by the balance
of a long life sacrificed, by the extinction of life itself. Quick behind the record of such
thoughts came the answer to the doubt they challenged: if it should turn out that she was not
living at all, but one of the doomed and pitiful Un-Dead, then so much more on account of her
very sweetness and beauty would be the winning of her back to Life and Heaven--even were it
that she might find happiness in the heart and in the arms of another man.

Once, when I leaned over the hearth to put fresh logs on the fire, my face was so close to
hers that I felt her breath on my cheek.  It thrilled me to feel even the suggestion of that
ineffable contact.  Her breath was sweet--sweet as the breath of a calf, sweet as the whiff
of a summer breeze across beds of mignonette.  How could anyone believe for a moment that such
sweet breath could come from the lips of the dead--the dead in esse or in posse--that corruption
could send forth fragrance so sweet and pure?  It was with satisfied happiness that, as I looked
at her from my stool, I saw the dancing of the flames from the beech-logs reflected in her
glorious black eyes, and the stars that were hidden in them shine out with new colours and
new lustre as they gleamed, rising and falling like hopes and fears.  As the light leaped,
so did smiles of quiet happiness flit over her beautiful face, the merriment of the joyous
flames being reflected in ever-changing dimples.

At first I was a little disconcerted whenever my eyes took note of her shroud, and there came
a momentary regret that the weather had not been again bad, so that there might have been compulsion
for her putting on another garment--anything lacking the loathsomeness of that pitiful wrapping.
Little by little, however, this feeling disappeared, and I found no matter for even dissatisfaction
in her wrapping.  Indeed, my thoughts found inward voice before the subject was dismissed from
my mind:

"One becomes accustomed to anything--even a shroud!"  But the thought was followed by a submerging
wave of pity that she should have had such a dreadful experience.

By-and-by we seemed both to forget everything--I know I did--except that we were man and woman,
and close together.  The strangeness of the situation and the circumstances did not seem of
moment--not worth even a passing thought.  We still sat apart and said little, if anything.
I cannot recall a single word that either of us spoke whilst we sat before the fire, but other
language than speech came into play; the eyes told their own story, as eyes can do, and more
eloquently than lips whilst exercising their function of speech.  Question and answer followed
each other in this satisfying language, and with an unspeakable rapture I began to realize
that my affection was returned.  Under these circumstances it was unrealizable that there should
be any incongruity in the whole affair.  I was not myself in the mood of questioning.  I was
diffident with that diffidence which comes alone from true love, as though it were a necessary
emanation from that delightful and overwhelming and commanding passion.  In her presence there
seemed to surge up within me that which forbade speech.  Speech under present conditions would
have seemed to me unnecessary, imperfect, and even vulgarly overt.  She, too, was silent. 
But now that I am alone, and memory is alone with me, I am convinced that she also had been
happy. No, not that exactly.  "Happiness" is not the word to describe either her feeling or
my own.  Happiness is more active, a more conscious enjoyment. We had been content.  That expresses
our condition perfectly; and now that I can analyze my own feeling, and understand what the
word implies, I am satisfied of its accuracy.  "Content" has both a positive and negative meaning
or antecedent condition.  It implies an absence of disturbing conditions as well as of wants;
also it implies something positive which has been won or achieved, or which has accrued.  In
our state of mind--for though it may be presumption on my part, I am satisfied that our ideas
were mutual--it meant that we had reached an understanding whence all that might come must
be for good.  God grant that it may be so!

As we sat silent, looking into each other's eyes, and whilst the stars in hers were now full
of latent fire, perhaps from the reflection of the flames, she suddenly sprang to her feet,
instinctively drawing the horrible shroud round her as she rose to her full height in a voice
full of lingering emotion, as of one who is acting under spiritual compulsion rather than personal
will, she said in a whisper:

"I must go at once.  I feel the morning drawing nigh.  I must be in my place when the light
of day comes."

She was so earnest that I felt I must not oppose her wish; so I, too, sprang to my feet and
ran towards the window.  I pulled the curtain aside sufficiently far for me to press back the
grille and reach the glass door, the latch of which I opened.  I passed behind the curtain
again, and held the edge of it back so that she could go through.  For an instant she stopped
as she broke the long silence:

"You are a true gentleman, and my friend.  You understand all I wish. Out of the depth of my
heart I thank you."  She held out her beautiful high-bred hand.  I took it in both mine as
I fell on my knees, and raised it to my lips.  Its touch made me quiver.  She, too, trembled
as she looked down at me with a glance which seemed to search my very soul.  The stars in her
eyes, now that the firelight was no longer on them, had gone back to their own mysterious silver.
Then she drew her hand from mine very, very gently, as though it would fain linger; and she
passed out behind the curtain with a gentle, sweet, dignified little bow which left me on my knees.

When I heard the glass door pulled-to gently behind her, I rose from my knees and hurried without
the curtain, just in time to watch her pass down the steps.  I wanted to see her as long as
I could.  The grey of morning was just beginning to war with the night gloom, and by the faint
uncertain light I could see dimly the white figure flit between shrub and statue till finally
it merged in the far darkness.

I stood for a long time on the terrace, sometimes looking into the darkness in front of me,
in case I might be blessed with another glimpse of her; sometimes with my eyes closed, so that
I might recall and hold in my mind her passage down the steps.  For the first time since I
had met her she had thrown back at me a glance as she stepped on the white path below the terrace.
With the glamour over me of that look, which was all love and enticement, I could have dared
all the powers that be.

When the grey dawn was becoming apparent through the lightening of the sky I returned to my
room.  In a dazed condition--half hypnotized by love--I went to bed, and in dreams continued
to think, all happily, of my Lady of the Shroud.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           May 27, 1907.

A whole week has gone since I saw my Love!  There it is; no doubt whatever is left in my mind
about it now!  Since I saw her my passion has grown and grown by leaps and bounds, as novelists
put it.  It has now become so vast as to overwhelm me, to wipe out all thought of doubt or
difficulty.  I suppose it must be what men suffered--suffering need not mean pain--under enchantments
in old times.  I am but as a straw whirled in the resistless eddies of a whirlpool.  I feel
that I must see her again, even if it be but in her tomb in the crypt.  I must, I suppose,
prepare myself for the venture, for many things have to be thought of. The visit must not be
at night, for in such case I might miss her, did she come to me again here . . .

The morning came and went, but my wish and intention still remained; and so in the full tide
of noon, with the sun in all its fiery force, I set out for the old church of St. Sava.  I
carried with me a lantern with powerful lens.  I had wrapped it up secretly, for I had a feeling
that I should not like anyone to know that I had such a thing with me.

On this occasion I had no misgivings.  On the former visit I had for a moment been overwhelmed
at the unexpected sight of the body of the woman I thought I loved--I knew it now--lying in
her tomb.  But now I knew all, and it was to see this woman, though in her tomb, that I came.

When I had lit my lantern, which I did as soon as I had pushed open the great door, which was
once again unlocked, I turned my steps to the steps of the crypt, which lay behind the richly
carven wood screen.  This I could see, with the better light, was a noble piece of work of
priceless beauty and worth.  I tried to keep my heart in full courage with thoughts of my Lady,
and of the sweetness and dignity of our last meeting; but, despite all, it sank down, down,
and turned to water as I passed with uncertain feet down the narrow, tortuous steps.  My concern,
I am now convinced, was not for myself, but that she whom I adored should have to endure such
a fearful place.  As anodyne to my own pain I thought what it would be, and how I should feel,
when I should have won for her a way out of that horror, at any rate.  This thought reassured
me somewhat, and restored my courage.  It was in something of the same fashion which has hitherto
carried me out of tight places as well as into them that at last I pushed open the low, narrow
door at the foot of the rock-hewn staircase and entered the crypt.

Without delay I made my way to the glass-covered tomb set beneath the hanging chain.  I could
see by the flashing of the light around me that my hand which held the lantern trembled.  With
a great effort I steadied myself, and raising the lantern, turned its light down into the sarcophagus.

Once again the fallen lantern rang on the tingling glass, and I stood alone in the darkness,
for an instant almost paralyzed with surprised disappointment.

The tomb was empty!  Even the trappings of the dead had been removed.

I knew not what happened till I found myself groping my way up the winding stair.  Here, in
comparison with the solid darkness of the crypt, it seemed almost light.  The dim expanse of
the church sent a few straggling rays down the vaulted steps, and as I could see, be it never
so dimly, I felt I was not in absolute darkness.  With the light came a sense of power and
fresh courage, and I groped my way back into the crypt again.  There, by now and again lighting
matches, I found my way to the tomb and recovered my lantern.  Then I took my way slowly--for
I wished to prove, if not my own courage, at least such vestiges of self-respect as the venture
had left me--through the church, where I extinguished my lantern, and out through the great
door into the open sunlight.  I seemed to have heard, both in the darkness of the crypt and
through the dimness of the church, mysterious sounds as of whispers and suppressed breathing;
but the memory of these did not count for much when once I was free.  I was only satisfied
of my own consciousness and identity when I found myself on the broad rock terrace in front
of the church, with the fierce sunlight beating on my upturned face, and, looking downward,
saw far below me the rippled blue of the open sea.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           June 3, 1907.

Another week has elapsed--a week full of movement of many kinds and in many ways--but as yet
I have had no tale or tidings of my Lady of the Shroud.  I have not had an opportunity of going
again in daylight to St. Sava's as I should have liked to have done.  I felt that I must not
go at night.  The night is her time of freedom, and it must be kept for her--or else I may
miss her, or perhaps never see her again.

The days have been full of national movement.  The mountaineers have evidently been organizing
themselves, for some reason which I cannot quite understand, and which they have hesitated
to make known to me.  I have taken care not to manifest any curiosity, whatever I may have
felt. This would certainly arouse suspicion, and might ultimately cause disaster to my hopes
of aiding the nation in their struggle to preserve their freedom.

These fierce mountaineers are strangely--almost unduly--suspicious, and the only way to win
their confidence is to begin the trusting.  A young American attache of the Embassy at Vienna,
who had made a journey through the Land of the Blue Mountains, once put it to me in this form:

"Keep your head shut, and they'll open theirs.  If you don't, they'll open it for you--down
to the chine!"

It was quite apparent to me that they were completing some fresh arrangements for signalling
with a code of their own.  This was natural enough, and in no way inconsistent with the measure
of friendliness already shown to me.  Where there are neither telegraphs, railways, nor roads,
any effective form of communication must--can only be purely personal.  And so, if they wish
to keep any secret amongst themselves, they must preserve the secret of their code.  I should
have dearly liked to learn their new code and their manner of using it, but as I want to be
a helpful friend to them--and as this implies not only trust, but the appearance of it--I had
to school myself to patience.

This attitude so far won their confidence that before we parted at our last meeting, after
most solemn vows of faith and secrecy, they took me into the secret.  This was, however, only
to the extent of teaching me the code and method; they still withheld from me rigidly the fact
or political secret, or whatever it was that was the mainspring of their united action.

When I got home I wrote down, whilst it was fresh in my memory, all they told me.  This script
I studied until I had it so thoroughly by heart that I could not forget it.  Then I burned
the paper.  However, there is now one gain at least: with my semaphore I can send through the
Blue Mountains from side to side, with expedition, secrecy, and exactness, a message comprehensible
to all.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           June 6, 1907.

Last night I had a new experience of my Lady of the Shroud--in so far as form was concerned,
at any rate.  I was in bed, and just falling asleep, when I heard a queer kind of scratching
at the glass door of the terrace. I listened acutely, my heart beating hard.  The sound seemed
to come from low down, close to the floor.  I jumped out of bed, ran to the window, and, pulling
aside the heavy curtains, looked out.

The garden looked, as usual, ghostly in the moonlight, but there was not the faintest sign
of movement anywhere, and no one was on or near the terrace.  I looked eagerly down to where
the sound had seemed to come from.

There, just inside the glass door, as though it had been pushed under the door, lay a paper
closely folded in several laps.  I picked it up and opened it.  I was all in a tumult, for
my heart told me whence it came. Inside was written in English, in a large, sprawling hand,
such as might be from an English child of seven or eight:

"Meet me at the Flagstaff on the Rock!"

I knew the place, of course.  On the farthermost point of the rock on which the Castle stands
is set a high flagstaff, whereon in old time the banner of the Vissarion family flew.  At some
far-off time, when the Castle had been liable to attack, this point had been strongly fortified.
Indeed, in the days when the bow was a martial weapon it must have been quite impregnable.

A covered gallery, with loopholes for arrows, had been cut in the solid rock, running right
round the point, quite surrounding the flagstaff and the great boss of rock on whose centre
it was reared.  A narrow drawbridge of immense strength had connected--in peaceful times, and
still remained--the outer point of rock with an entrance formed in the outer wall, and guarded
with flanking towers and a portcullis.  Its use was manifestly to guard against surprise. 
From this point only could be seen the line of the rocks all round the point.  Thus, any secret
attack by boats could be made impossible.

Having hurriedly dressed myself, and taking with me both hunting-knife and revolver, I went
out on the terrace, taking the precaution, unusual to me, of drawing the grille behind me and
locking it.  Matters around the Castle are in far too disturbed a condition to allow the taking
of any foolish chances, either in the way of being unarmed or of leaving the private entrance
to the Castle open.  I found my way through the rocky passage, and climbed by the Jacob's ladder
fixed on the rock--a device of convenience in time of peace--to the foot of the flagstaff.

I was all on fire with expectation, and the time of going seemed exceeding long; so I was additionally
disappointed by the contrast when I did not see my Lady there when I arrived.  However, my
heart beat freely again--perhaps more freely than ever--when I saw her crouching in the shadow
of the Castle wall.  From where she was she could not be seen from any point save that alone
which I occupied; even from there it was only her white shroud that was conspicuous through
the deep gloom of the shadow.  The moonlight was so bright that the shadows were almost unnaturally
black.

I rushed over towards her, and when close was about to say impulsively, "Why did you leave
your tomb?" when it suddenly struck me that the question would be malapropos and embarrassing
in many ways.  So, better judgment prevailing, I said instead:

"It has been so long since I saw you!  It has seemed an eternity to me!" Her answer came as
quickly as even I could have wished; she spoke impulsively and without thought:

"It has been long to me too!  Oh, so long! so long!  I have asked you to come out here because
I wanted to see you so much that I could not wait any longer.  I have been heart-hungry for
a sight of you!"

Her words, her eager attitude, the ineffable something which conveys the messages of the heart,
the longing expression in her eyes as the full moonlight fell on her face, showing the stars
as living gold--for in her eagerness she had stepped out towards me from the shadow--all set
me on fire.  Without a thought or a word--for it was Nature speaking in the language of Love,
which is a silent tongue--I stepped towards her and took her in my arms.  She yielded with
that sweet unconsciousness which is the perfection of Love, as if it was in obedience to some
command uttered before the beginning of the world.  Probably without any conscious effort on
either side--I know there was none on mine--our mouths met in the first kiss of love.

At the time nothing in the meeting struck me as out of the common.  But later in the night,
when I was alone and in darkness, whenever I thought of it all--its strangeness and its stranger
rapture--I could not but be sensible of the bizarre conditions for a love meeting.  The place
lonely, the time night, the man young and strong, and full of life and hope and ambition; the
woman, beautiful and ardent though she was, a woman seemingly dead, clothed in the shroud in
which she had been wrapped when lying in her tomb in the crypt of the old church.

Whilst we were together, anyhow, there was little thought of the kind; no reasoning of any
kind on my part.  Love has its own laws and its own logic.  Under the flagstaff, where the
Vissarion banner was wont to flap in the breeze, she was in my arms; her sweet breath was on
my face; her heart was beating against my own.  What need was there for reason at all? Inter
arma silent leges--the voice of reason is silent in the stress of passion.  Dead she may be,
or Un-dead--a Vampire with one foot in Hell and one on earth.  But I love her; and come what
may, here or hereafter, she is mine.  As my mate, we shall fare along together, whatsoever
the end may be, or wheresoever our path may lead.  If she is indeed to be won from the nethermost
Hell, then be mine the task!

But to go back to the record.  When I had once started speaking to her in words of passion
I could not stop.  I did not want to--if I could; and she did not appear to wish it either.
Can there be a woman--alive or dead--who would not want to hear the rapture of her lover expressed
to her whilst she is enclosed in his arms?

There was no attempt at reticence on my part now; I took it for granted that she knew all that
I surmised, and, as she made neither protest nor comment, that she accepted my belief as to
her indeterminate existence. Sometimes her eyes would be closed, but even then the rapture
of her face was almost beyond belief.  Then, when the beautiful eyes would open and gaze on
me, the stars that were in them would shine and scintillate as though they were formed of living
fire.  She said little, very little; but though the words were few, every syllable was fraught
with love, and went straight to the very core of my heart.

By-and-by, when our transport had calmed to joy, I asked when I might next see her, and how
and where I might find her when I should want to. She did not reply directly, but, holding
me close in her arms, whispered in my ear with that breathless softness which is a lover's
rapture of speech:

"I have come here under terrible difficulties, not only because I love you--and that would
be enough--but because, as well as the joy of seeing you, I wanted to warn you."

"To warn me!  Why?" I queried.  Her reply came with a bashful hesitation, with something of
a struggle in it, as of one who for some ulterior reason had to pick her words:

"There are difficulties and dangers ahead of you.  You are beset with them; and they are all
the greater because they are, of grim necessity, hidden from you.  You cannot go anywhere,
look in any direction, do anything, say anything, but it may be a signal for danger.  My dear,
it lurks everywhere--in the light as well as in the darkness; in the open as well as in the
secret places; from friends as well as foes; when you are least prepared; when you may least
expect it.  Oh, I know it, and what it is to endure; for I share it for you--for your dear sake!"

"My darling!" was all I could say, as I drew her again closer to me and kissed her.  After
a bit she was calmer; seeing this, I came back to the subject that she had--in part, at all
events--come to me to speak about:

"But if difficulty and danger hedge me in so everlastingly, and if I am to have no indication
whatever of its kind or purpose, what can I do? God knows I would willingly guard myself--not
on my own account, but for your dear sake.  I have now a cause to live and be strong, and to
keep all my faculties, since it may mean much to you.  If you may not tell me details, may
you not indicate to me some line of conduct, of action, that would be most in accord with your
wishes--or, rather, with your idea of what would be best?"

She looked at me fixedly before speaking--a long, purposeful, loving look which no man born
of woman could misunderstand.  Then she spoke slowly, deliberately, emphatically:

"Be bold, and fear not.  Be true to yourself, to me--it is the same thing.  These are the best
guards you can use.  Your safety does not rest with me.  Ah, I wish it did!  I wish to God
it did!"  In my inner heart it thrilled me not merely to hear the expression of her wish, but
to hear her use the name of God as she did.  I understand now, in the calm of this place and
with the sunlight before me, that my belief as to her being all woman--living woman--was not
quite dead: but though at the moment my heart did not recognize the doubt, my brain did.  And
I made up my mind that we should not part this time until she knew that I had seen her, and
where; but, despite my own thoughts, my outer ears listened greedily as she went on.

"As for me, you may not find me, but I shall find you, be sure! And now we must say 'Good-night,'
my dear, my dear!  Tell me once again that you love me, for it is a sweetness that one does
not wish to forego--even one who wears such a garment as this--and rests where I must rest."
As she spoke she held up part of her cerements for me to see. What could I do but take her
once again in my arms and hold her close, close.  God knows it was all in love; but it was
passionate love which surged through my every vein as I strained her dear body to mine.  But
yet this embrace was not selfish; it was not all an expression of my own passion.  It was based
on pity--the pity which is twin-born with true love.  Breathless from our kisses, when presently
we released each other, she stood in a glorious rapture, like a white spirit in the moonlight,
and as her lovely, starlit eyes seemed to devour me, she spoke in a languorous ecstasy:

"Oh, how you love me! how you love me!  It is worth all I have gone through for this, even
to wearing this terrible drapery."  And again she pointed to her shroud.

Here was my chance to speak of what I knew, and I took it.  "I know, I know.  Moreover, I know
that awful resting-place."

I was interrupted, cut short in the midst of my sentence, not by any word, but by the frightened
look in her eyes and the fear-mastered way in which she shrank away from me.  I suppose in
reality she could not be paler than she looked when the colour-absorbing moonlight fell on
her; but on the instant all semblance of living seemed to shrink and fall away, and she looked
with eyes of dread as if in I some awful way held in thrall.  But for the movement of the pitiful
glance, she would have seemed of soulless marble, so deadly cold did she look.

The moments that dragged themselves out whilst I waited for her to speak seemed endless.  At
length her words came in an awed whisper, so faint that even in that stilly night I could hardly
hear it:

"You know--you know my resting-place!  How--when was that?"  There was nothing to do now but
to speak out the truth:

"I was in the crypt of St. Sava.  It was all by accident.  I was exploring all around the Castle,
and I went there in my course.  I found the winding stair in the rock behind the screen, and
went down.  Dear, I loved you well before that awful moment, but then, even as the lantern
fell tingling on the glass, my love multiplied itself, with pity as a factor."  She was silent
for a few seconds.  When she spoke, there was a new tone in her voice:

"But were you not shocked?"

"Of course I was," I answered on the spur of the moment, and I now think wisely.  "Shocked
is hardly the word.  I was horrified beyond anything that words can convey that you--you should
have to so endure!  I did not like to return, for I feared lest my doing so might set some
barrier between us.  But in due time I did return on another day."

"Well?"  Her voice was like sweet music.

"I had another shock that time, worse than before, for you were not there.  Then indeed it
was that I knew to myself how dear you were--how dear you are to me.  Whilst I live, you--living
or dead--shall always be in my heart."  She breathed hard.  The elation in her eyes made them
outshine the moonlight, but she said no word.  I went on:

"My dear, I had come into the crypt full of courage and hope, though I knew what dreadful sight
should sear my eyes once again.  But we little know what may be in store for us, no matter
what we expect.  I went out with a heart like water from that dreadful desolation."

"Oh, how you love me, dear!"  Cheered by her words, and even more by her tone, I went on with
renewed courage.  There was no halting, no faltering in my intention now:

"You and I, my dear, were ordained for each other.  I cannot help it that you had already suffered
before I knew you.  It may be that there may be for you still suffering that I may not prevent,
endurance that I may not shorten; but what a man can do is yours.  Not Hell itself will stop
me, if it be possible that I may win through its torments with you in my arms!"

"Will nothing stop you, then?"  Her question was breathed as softly as the strain of an AEolian
harp.

"Nothing!" I said, and I heard my own teeth snap together.  There was something speaking within
me stronger than I had ever known myself to be. Again came a query, trembling, quavering, quivering,
as though the issue was of more than life or death:

"Not this?"  She held up a corner of the shroud, and as she saw my face and realized the answer
before I spoke, went on: "With all it implies?"

"Not if it were wrought of the cerecloths of the damned!"  There was a long pause.  Her voice
was more resolute when she spoke again.  It rang. Moreover, there was in it a joyous note,
as of one who feels new hope:

"But do you know what men say?  Some of them, that I am dead and buried; others, that I am
not only dead and buried, but that I am one of those unhappy beings that may not die the common
death of man.  Who live on a fearful life-in-death, whereby they are harmful to all.  Those
unhappy Un-dead whom men call Vampires--who live on the blood of the living, and bring eternal
damnation as well as death with the poison of their dreadful kisses!

"I know what men say sometimes," I answered.  "But I know also what my own heart says; and
I rather choose to obey its calling than all the voices of the living or the dead.  Come what
may, I am pledged to you. If it be that your old life has to be rewon for you out of the very
jaws of Death and Hell, I shall keep the faith I have pledged, and that here I pledge again!"
As I finished speaking I sank on my knees at her feet, and, putting my arms round her, drew
her close to me.  Her tears rained down on my face as she stroked my hair with her soft, strong
hand and whispered to me:

"This is indeed to be one.  What more holy marriage can God give to any of His creatures?"
We were both silent for a time.

I think I was the first to recover my senses.  That I did so was manifest by my asking her:
"When may we meet again?"--a thing I had never remembered doing at any of our former partings.
She answered with a rising and falling of the voice that was just above a whisper, as soft
and cooing as the voice of a pigeon:

"That will be soon--as soon as I can manage it, be sure.  My dear, my dear!"  The last four
words of endearment she spoke in a low but prolonged and piercing tone which made me thrill
with delight.

"Give me some token," I said, "that I may have always close to me to ease my aching heart till
we meet again, and ever after, for love's sake!" Her mind seemed to leap to understanding,
and with a purpose all her own. Stooping for an instant, she tore off with swift, strong fingers
a fragment of her shroud.  This, having kissed it, she handed to me, whispering:

"It is time that we part.  You must leave me now.  Take this, and keep it for ever.  I shall
be less unhappy in my terrible loneliness whilst it lasts if I know that this my gift, which
for good or ill is a part of me as you know me, is close to you.  It may be, my very dear,
that some day you may be glad and even proud of this hour, as I am."  She kissed me as I took it.

"For life or death, I care not which, so long as I am with you!" I said, as I moved off.  Descending
the Jacob's ladder, I made my way down the rock-hewn passage.

The last thing I saw was the beautiful face of my Lady of the Shroud as she leaned over the
edge of the opening.  Her eyes were like glowing stars as her looks followed me.  That look
shall never fade from my memory.

After a few agitating moments of thought I half mechanically took my way down to the garden.
Opening the grille, I entered my lonely room, which looked all the more lonely for the memory
of the rapturous moments under the Flagstaff.  I went to bed as one in a dream.  There I lay
till sunrise--awake and thinking.

BOOK V: A RITUAL AT MIDNIGHT

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                          June 20, 1907.

The time has gone as quickly as work can effect since I saw my Lady.  As I told the mountaineers,
Rooke, whom I had sent on the service, had made a contract for fifty thousand Ingis-Malbron
rifles, and as many tons of ammunition as the French experts calculated to be a full supply
for a year of warfare.  I heard from him by our secret telegraph code that the order had been
completed, and that the goods were already on the way. The morning after the meeting at the
Flagstaff I had word that at night the vessel--one chartered by Rooke for the purpose--would
arrive at Vissarion during the night.  We were all expectation.  I had always now in the Castle
a signalling party, the signals being renewed as fast as the men were sufficiently expert to
proceed with their practice alone or in groups.  We hoped that every fighting-man in the country
would in time become an expert signaller.  Beyond these, again, we have always a few priests.
The Church of the country is a militant Church; its priests are soldiers, its Bishops commanders.
But they all serve wherever the battle most needs them.  Naturally they, as men of brains,
are quicker at learning than the average mountaineers; with the result that they learnt the
code and the signalling almost by instinct.  We have now at least one such expert in each community
of them, and shortly the priests alone will be able to signal, if need be, for the nation;
thus releasing for active service the merely fighting-man.  The men at present with me I took
into confidence as to the vessel's arrival, and we were all ready for work when the man on
the lookout at the Flagstaff sent word that a vessel without lights was creeping in towards
shore.  We all assembled on the rocky edge of the creek, and saw her steal up the creek and
gain the shelter of the harbour.  When this had been effected, we ran out the boom which protects
the opening, and after that the great armoured sliding-gates which Uncle Roger had himself
had made so as to protect the harbour in case of need.

We then came within and assisted in warping the steamer to the side of the dock.

Rooke looked fit, and was full of fire and vigour.  His responsibility and the mere thought
of warlike action seemed to have renewed his youth.

When we had arranged for the unloading of the cases of arms and ammunition, I took Rooke into
the room which we call my "office," where he gave me an account of his doings.  He had not
only secured the rifles and the ammunition for them, but he had purchased from one of the small
American Republics an armoured yacht which had been especially built for war service.  He grew
quite enthusiastic, even excited, as he told me of her:

"She is the last word in naval construction--a torpedo yacht.  A small cruiser, with turbines
up to date, oil-fuelled, and fully armed with the latest and most perfect weapons and explosives
of all kinds.  The fastest boat afloat to-day.  Built by Thorneycroft, engined by Parsons,
armoured by Armstrong, armed by Crupp.  If she ever comes into action, it will be bad for her
opponent, for she need not fear to tackle anything less than a Dreadnought."

He also told me that from the same Government, whose nation had just established an unlooked-for
peace, he had also purchased a whole park of artillery of the very latest patterns, and that
for range and accuracy the guns were held to be supreme.  These would follow before long, and
with them their proper ammunition, with a shipload of the same to follow shortly after.

When he had told me all the rest of his news, and handed me the accounts, we went out to the
dock to see the debarkation of the war material. Knowing that it was arriving, I had sent word
in the afternoon to the mountaineers to tell them to come and remove it.  They had answered
the call, and it really seemed to me that the whole of the land must that night have been in
motion.

They came as individuals, grouping themselves as they came within the defences of the Castle;
some had gathered at fixed points on the way. They went secretly and in silence, stealing through
the forests like ghosts, each party when it grouped taking the place of that which had gone
on one of the routes radiating round Vissarion.  Their coming and going was more than ghostly.
It was, indeed, the outward manifestation of an inward spirit--a whole nation dominated by
one common purpose.

The men in the steamer were nearly all engineers, mostly British, well conducted, and to be
depended upon.  Rooke had picked them separately, and in the doing had used well his great
experience of both men and adventurous life.  These men were to form part of the armoured yacht's
crew when she should come into the Mediterranean waters.  They and the priests and fighting-men
in the Castle worked well together, and with a zeal that was beyond praise.  The heavy cases
seemed almost of their own accord to leave the holds, so fast came the procession of them along
the gangways from deck to dock-wall.  It was a part of my design that the arms should be placed
in centres ready for local distribution.  In such a country as this, without railways or even
roads, the distribution of war material in any quantity is a great labour, for it has to be
done individually, or at least from centres.

But of this work the great number of mountaineers who were arriving made little account.  As
fast as the ship's company, with the assistance of the priests and fighting-men, placed the
cases on the quay, the engineers opened them and laid the contents ready for portage.  The
mountaineers seemed to come in a continuous stream; each in turn shouldered his burden and
passed out, the captain of his section giving him as he passed his instruction where to go
and in what route.  The method had been already prepared in my office ready for such a distribution
when the arms should arrive, and descriptions and quantities had been noted by the captains.
The whole affair was treated by all as a matter of the utmost secrecy. Hardly a word was spoken
beyond the necessary directions, and these were given in whispers.  All night long the stream
of men went and came, and towards dawn the bulk of the imported material was lessened by half.
On the following night the remainder was removed, after my own men had stored in the Castle
the rifles and ammunition reserved for its defence if necessary.  It was advisable to keep
a reserve supply in case it should ever be required.  The following night Rooke went away secretly
in the chartered vessel.  He had to bring back with him the purchased cannon and heavy ammunition,
which had been in the meantime stored on one of the Greek islands.  The second morning, having
had secret word that the steamer was on the way, I had given the signal for the assembling
of the mountaineers.

A little after dark the vessel, showing no light, stole into the creek. The barrier gates were
once again closed, and when a sufficient number of men had arrived to handle the guns, we began
to unload.  The actual deportation was easy enough, for the dock had all necessary appliances
quite up to date, including a pair of shears for gun-lifting which could be raised into position
in a very short time.

The guns were well furnished with tackle of all sorts, and before many hours had passed a little
procession of them disappeared into the woods in ghostly silence.  A number of men surrounded
each, and they moved as well as if properly supplied with horses.

In the meantime, and for a week after the arrival of the guns, the drilling went on without
pause.  The gun-drill was wonderful.  In the arduous work necessary for it the great strength
and stamina of the mountaineers showed out wonderfully.  They did not seem to know fatigue
any more than they knew fear.

For a week this went on, till a perfect discipline and management was obtained.  They did not
practise the shooting, for this would have made secrecy impossible.  It was reported all along
the Turkish frontier that the Sultan's troops were being massed, and though this was not on
a war footing, the movement was more or less dangerous.  The reports of our own spies, although
vague as to the purpose and extent of the movement, were definite as to something being on
foot.  And Turkey does not do something without a purpose that bodes ill to someone.  Certainly
the sound of cannon, which is a far-reaching sound, would have given them warning of our preparations,
and would so have sadly minimized their effectiveness.

When the cannon had all been disposed of--except, of course, those destined for defence of
the Castle or to be stored there--Rooke went away with the ship and crew.  The ship he was
to return to the owners; the men would be shipped on the war-yacht, of whose crew they would
form a part. The rest of them had been carefully selected by Rooke himself, and were kept in
secrecy at Cattaro, ready for service the moment required.  They were all good men, and quite
capable of whatever work they might be set to.  So Rooke told me, and he ought to know.  The
experience of his young days as a private made him an expert in such a job.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                          June 24, 1907.

Last night I got from my Lady a similar message to the last, and delivered in a similar way.
This time, however, our meeting was to be on the leads of the Keep.

I dressed myself very carefully before going on this adventure, lest by any chance of household
concern, any of the servants should see me; for if this should happen, Aunt Janet would be
sure to hear of it, which would give rise to endless surmises and questionings--a thing I was
far from desiring.

I confess that in thinking the matter over during the time I was making my hurried preparations
I was at a loss to understand how any human body, even though it be of the dead, could go or
be conveyed to such a place without some sort of assistance, or, at least, collusion, on the
part of some of the inmates.  At the visit to the Flagstaff circumstances were different. 
This spot was actually outside the Castle, and in order to reach it I myself had to leave the
Castle privately, and from the garden ascend to the ramparts.  But here was no such possibility.
The Keep was an imperium in imperio.  It stood within the Castle, though separated from it,
and it had its own defences against intrusion.  The roof of it was, so far as I knew, as little
approachable as the magazine.

The difficulty did not, however, trouble me beyond a mere passing thought.  In the joy of the
coming meeting and the longing rapture at the mere thought of it, all difficulties disappeared.
Love makes its own faith, and I never doubted that my Lady would be waiting for me at the place
designated.  When I had passed through the little arched passages, and up the doubly-grated
stairways contrived in the massiveness of the walls, I let myself out on the leads.  It was
well that as yet the times were sufficiently peaceful not to necessitate guards or sentries
at all such points.

There, in a dim corner where the moonlight and the passing clouds threw deep shadows, I saw
her, clothed as ever in her shroud.  Why, I know not. I felt somehow that the situation was
even more serious than ever.  But I was steeled to whatever might come.  My mind had been already
made up. To carry out my resolve to win the woman I loved I was ready to face death.  But now,
after we had for a few brief moments held each other in our arms, I was willing to accept death--or
more than death.  Now, more than before, was she sweet and dear to me.  Whatever qualms there
might have been at the beginning of our love-making, or during the progress of it, did not
now exist.  We had exchanged vows and confidences, and acknowledged our loves.  What, then,
could there be of distrust, or even doubt, that the present might not set at naught?  But even
had there been such doubts or qualms, they must have disappeared in the ardour of our mutual
embrace.  I was by now mad for her, and was content to be so mad. When she had breath to speak
after the strictness of our embrace, she said:

"I have come to warn you to be more than ever careful."  It was, I confess, a pang to me, who
thought only of love, to hear that anything else should have been the initiative power of her
coming, even though it had been her concern for my own safety.  I could not but notice the
bitter note of chagrin in my voice as I answered:

"It was for love's sake that I came."  She, too, evidently felt the undercurrent of pain, for
she said quickly:

"Ah, dearest, I, too, came for love's sake.  It is because I love you that I am so anxious
about you.  What would the world--ay, or heaven--be to me without you?"

There was such earnest truth in her tone that the sense and realization of my own harshness
smote me.  In the presence of such love as this even a lover's selfishness must become abashed.
I could not express myself in words, so simply raised her slim hand in mine and kissed it.
As it lay warm in my own I could not but notice, as well as its fineness, its strength and
the firmness of its clasp.  Its warmth and fervour struck into my heart--and my brain.  Thereupon
I poured out to her once more my love for her, she listening all afire.  When passion had had
its say, the calmer emotions had opportunity of expression.  When I was satisfied afresh of
her affection, I began to value her care for my safety, and so I went back to the subject.
Her very insistence, based on personal affection, gave me more solid ground for fear.  In the
moment of love transports I had forgotten, or did not think, of what wonderful power or knowledge
she must have to be able to move in such strange ways as she did.  Why, at this very moment
she was within my own gates.  Locks and bars, even the very seal of death itself, seemed unable
to make for her a prison-house.  With such freedom of action and movement, going when she would
into secret places, what might she not know that was known to others?  How could anyone keep
secret from such an one even an ill intent?  Such thoughts, such surmises, had often flashed
through my mind in moments of excitement rather than of reflection, but never long enough to
become fixed into belief.  But yet the consequences, the convictions, of them were with me,
though unconsciously, though the thoughts themselves were perhaps forgotten or withered before
development.

"And you?" I asked her earnestly.  "What about danger to you?"  She smiled, her little pearl-white
teeth gleaming in the moonlight, as she spoke:

"There is no danger for me.  I am safe.  I am the safest person, perhaps the only safe person,
in all this land."  The full significance of her words did not seem to come to me all at once.
Some base for understanding such an assertion seemed to be wanting.  It was not that I did
not trust or believe her, but that I thought she might be mistaken. I wanted to reassure myself,
so in my distress I asked unthinkingly:

"How the safest?  What is your protection?"  For several moments that spun themselves out endlessly
she looked me straight in the face, the stars in her eyes seeming to glow like fire; then,
lowering her head, she took a fold of her shroud and held it up to me.

"This!"

The meaning was complete and understandable now.  I could not speak at once for the wave of
emotion which choked me.  I dropped on my knees, and taking her in my arms, held her close
to me.  She saw that I was moved, and tenderly stroked my hair, and with delicate touch pressed
down my head on her bosom, as a mother might have done to comfort a frightened child.

Presently we got back to the realities of life again.  I murmured:

"Your safety, your life, your happiness are all-in-all to me.  When will you let them be my
care?"  She trembled in my arms, nestling even closer to me.  Her own arms seemed to quiver
with delight as she said:

"Would you indeed like me to be always with you?  To me it would be a happiness unspeakable;
and to you, what would it be?"

I thought that she wished to hear me speak my love to her, and that, woman-like, she had led
me to the utterance, and so I spoke again of the passion that now raged in me, she listening
eagerly as we strained each other tight in our arms.  At last there came a pause, a long, long
pause, and our hearts beat consciously in unison as we stood together. Presently she said in
a sweet, low, intense whisper, as soft as the sighing of summer wind:

"It shall be as you wish; but oh, my dear, you will have to first go through an ordeal which
may try you terribly!  Do not ask me anything! You must not ask, because I may not answer,
and it would be pain to me to deny you anything.  Marriage with such an one as I am has its
own ritual, which may not be foregone.  It may . . . "  I broke passionately into her speaking:

"There is no ritual that I fear, so long as it be that it is for your good, and your lasting
happiness.  And if the end of it be that I may call you mine, there is no horror in life or
death that I shall not gladly face.  Dear, I ask you nothing.  I am content to leave myself
in your hands.  You shall advise me when the time comes, and I shall be satisfied, content
to obey.  Content!  It is but a poor word to express what I long for!  I shall shirk nothing
which may come to me from this or any other world, so long as it is to make you mine!"  Once
again her murmured happiness was music to my ears:

"Oh, how you love me! how you love me, dear, dear!"  She took me in her arms, and for a few
seconds we hung together.  Suddenly she tore herself apart from me, and stood drawn up to the
full height, with a dignity I cannot describe or express.  Her voice had a new dominance, as
with firm utterance and in staccato manner she said:

"Rupert Sent Leger, before we go a step further I must say something to you, ask you something,
and I charge you, on your most sacred honour and belief, to answer me truly.  Do you believe
me to be one of those unhappy beings who may not die, but have to live in shameful existence
between earth and the nether world, and whose hellish mission is to destroy, body and soul,
those who love them till they fall to their level?  You are a gentleman, and a brave one. 
I have found you fearless.  Answer me in sternest truth, no matter what the issue may be!"

She stood there in the glamorous moonlight with a commanding dignity which seemed more than
human.  In that mystic light her white shroud seemed diaphanous, and she appeared like a spirit
of power.  What was I to say?  How could I admit to such a being that I had actually had at
moments, if not a belief, a passing doubt?  It was a conviction with me that if I spoke wrongly
I should lose her for ever.  I was in a desperate strait.  In such a case there is but one
solid ground which one may rest on--the Truth.

I really felt I was between the devil and the deep sea.  There was no avoiding the issue, and
so, out of this all-embracing, all-compelling conviction of truth, I spoke.

For a fleeting moment I felt that my tone was truculent, and almost hesitated; but as I saw
no anger or indignation on my Lady's face, but rather an eager approval, I was reassured. 
A woman, after all, is glad to see a man strong, for all belief in him must be based on that.

"I shall speak the truth.  Remember that I have no wish to hurt your feelings, but as you conjure
me by my honour, you must forgive me if I pain.  It is true that I had at first--ay, and later,
when I came to think matters over after you had gone, when reason came to the aid of impression--a
passing belief that you are a Vampire.  How can I fail to have, even now, though I love you
with all my soul, though I have held you in my arms and kissed you on the mouth, a doubt, when
all the evidences seem to point to one thing?  Remember that I have only seen you at night,
except that bitter moment when, in the broad noonday of the upper world, I saw you, clad as
ever in a shroud, lying seemingly dead in a tomb in the crypt of St. Sava's Church . . . But
let that pass.  Such belief as I have is all in you.  Be you woman or Vampire, it is all the
same to me.  It is you whom I love!  Should it be that you are--you are not woman, which I
cannot believe, then it will be my glory to break your fetters, to open your prison, and set
you free.  To that I consecrate my life."  For a few seconds I stood silent, vibrating with
the passion which had been awakened in me.  She had by now lost the measure of her haughty
isolation, and had softened into womanhood again.  It was really like a realization of the
old theme of Pygmalion's statue.  It was with rather a pleading than a commanding voice that
she said:

"And shall you always be true to me?"

"Always--so help me, God!" I answered, and I felt that there could be no lack of conviction
in my voice.

Indeed, there was no cause for such lack.  She also stood for a little while stone-still, and
I was beginning to expand to the rapture which was in store for me when she should take me
again in her arms.

But there was no such moment of softness.  All at once she started as if she had suddenly wakened
from a dream, and on the spur of the moment said:

"Now go, go!"  I felt the conviction of necessity to obey, and turned at once.  As I moved
towards the door by which I had entered, I asked:

"When shall I see you again?"

"Soon!" came her answer.  "I shall let you know soon--when and where. Oh, go, go!"  She almost
pushed me from her.

When I had passed through the low doorway and locked and barred it behind me, I felt a pang
that I should have had to shut her out like that; but I feared lest there should arise some
embarrassing suspicion if the door should be found open.  Later came the comforting thought
that, as she had got to the roof though the door had been shut, she would be able to get away
by the same means.  She had evidently knowledge of some secret way into the Castle.  The alternative
was that she must have some supernatural quality or faculty which gave her strange powers.
I did not wish to pursue that train of thought, and so, after an effort, shut it out from my mind.

When I got back to my room I locked the door behind me, and went to sleep in the dark.  I did
not want light just then--could not bear it.

This morning I woke, a little later than usual, with a kind of apprehension which I could not
at once understand.  Presently, however, when my faculties became fully awake and in working
order, I realized that I feared, half expected, that Aunt Janet would come to me in a worse
state of alarm than ever apropos of some new Second-Sight experience of more than usual ferocity.

But, strange to say, I had no such visit.  Later on in the morning, when, after breakfast,
we walked together through the garden, I asked her how she had slept, and if she had dreamt.
She answered me that she had slept without waking, and if she had had any dreams, they must
have been pleasant ones, for she did not remember them.  "And you know, Rupert," she added,
"that if there be anything bad or fearsome or warning in dreams, I always remember them."

Later still, when I was by myself on the cliff beyond the creek, I could not help commenting
on the absence of her power of Second Sight on the occasion.  Surely, if ever there was a time
when she might have had cause of apprehension, it might well have been when I asked the Lady
whom she did not know to marry me--the Lady of whose identity I knew nothing, even whose name
I did not know--whom I loved with all my heart and soul--my Lady of the Shroud.

I have lost faith in Second Sight.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           July 1, 1907.

Another week gone.  I have waited patiently, and I am at last rewarded by another letter. 
I was preparing for bed a little while ago, when I heard the same mysterious sound at the door
as on the last two occasions.  I hurried to the glass door, and there found another close-folded
letter. But I could see no sign of my Lady, or of any other living being.  The letter, which
was without direction, ran as follows:

"If you are still of the same mind, and feel no misgivings, meet me at the Church of St. Sava
beyond the Creek to-morrow night at a quarter before midnight.  If you come, come in secret,
and, of course, alone.  Do not come at all unless you are prepared for a terrible ordeal. 
But if you love me, and have neither doubts nor fears, come.  Come!"

Needless to say, I did not sleep last night.  I tried to, but without success.  It was no morbid
happiness that kept me awake, no doubting, no fear.  I was simply overwhelmed with the idea
of the coming rapture when I should call my Lady my very, very own.  In this sea of happy expectation
all lesser things were submerged.  Even sleep, which is an imperative force with me, failed
in its usual effectiveness, and I lay still, calm, content.

With the coming of the morning, however, restlessness began.  I did not know what to do, how
to restrain myself, where to look for an anodyne. Happily the latter came in the shape of Rooke,
who turned up shortly after breakfast.  He had a satisfactory tale to tell me of the armoured
yacht, which had lain off Cattaro on the previous night, and to which he had brought his contingent
of crew which had waited for her coming.  He did not like to take the risk of going into any
port with such a vessel, lest he might be detained or otherwise hampered by forms, and had
gone out upon the open sea before daylight.  There was on board the yacht a tiny torpedo-boat,
for which provision was made both for hoisting on deck and housing there.  This last would
run into the creek at ten o'clock that evening, at which time it would be dark.  The yacht
would then run to near Otranto, to which she would send a boat to get any message I might send.
This was to be in a code, which we arranged, and would convey instructions as to what night
and approximate hour the yacht would come to the creek.

The day was well on before we had made certain arrangements for the future; and not till then
did I feel again the pressure of my personal restlessness.  Rooke, like a wise commander, took
rest whilst he could. Well he knew that for a couple of days and nights at least there would
be little, if any, sleep for him.

For myself, the habit of self-control stood to me, and I managed to get through the day somehow
without exciting the attention of anyone else. The arrival of the torpedo-boat and the departure
of Rooke made for me a welcome break in my uneasiness.  An hour ago I said good-night to Aunt
Janet, and shut myself up alone here.  My watch is on the table before me, so that I may make
sure of starting to the moment.  I have allowed myself half an hour to reach St. Sava.  My
skiff is waiting, moored at the foot of the cliff on the hither side, where the zigzag comes
close to the water.  It is now ten minutes past eleven.

I shall add the odd five minutes to the time for my journey so as to make safe.  I go unarmed
and without a light.

I shall show no distrust of anyone or anything this night.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           July 2, 1907.

When I was outside the church, I looked at my watch in the bright moonlight, and found I had
one minute to wait.  So I stood in the shadow of the doorway and looked out at the scene before
me.  Not a sign of life was visible around me, either on land or sea.  On the broad plateau
on which the church stands there was no movement of any kind.  The wind, which had been pleasant
in the noontide, had fallen completely, and not a leaf was stirring.  I could see across the
creek and note the hard line where the battlements of the Castle cut the sky, and where the
keep towered above the line of black rock, which in the shadow of the land made an ebon frame
for the picture.  When I had seen the same view on former occasions, the line where the rock
rose from the sea was a fringe of white foam.  But then, in the daylight, the sea was sapphire
blue; now it was an expanse of dark blue--so dark as to seem almost black.  It had not even
the relief of waves or ripples--simply a dark, cold, lifeless expanse, with no gleam of light
anywhere, of lighthouse or ship; neither was there any special sound to be heard that one could
distinguish--nothing but the distant hum of the myriad voices of the dark mingling in one ceaseless
inarticulate sound.  It was well I had not time to dwell on it, or I might have reached some
spiritually-disturbing melancholy.

Let me say here that ever since I had received my Lady's message concerning this visit to St.
Sava's I had been all on fire--not, perhaps, at every moment consciously or actually so, but
always, as it were, prepared to break out into flame.  Did I want a simile, I might compare
myself to a well-banked furnace, whose present function it is to contain heat rather than to
create it; whose crust can at any moment be broken by a force external to itself, and burst
into raging, all-compelling heat. No thought of fear really entered my mind.  Every other emotion
there was, coming and going as occasion excited or lulled, but not fear.  Well I knew in the
depths of my heart the purpose which that secret quest was to serve.  I knew not only from
my Lady's words, but from the teachings of my own senses and experiences, that some dreadful
ordeal must take place before happiness of any kind could be won.  And that ordeal, though
method or detail was unknown to me, I was prepared to undertake.  This was one of those occasions
when a man must undertake, blindfold, ways that may lead to torture or death, or unknown terrors
beyond.  But, then, a man--if, indeed, he have the heart of a man--can always undertake; he
can at least make the first step, though it may turn out that through the weakness of mortality
he may be unable to fulfil his own intent, or justify his belief in his own powers.  Such,
I take it, was the intellectual attitude of the brave souls who of old faced the tortures of
the Inquisition.

But though there was no immediate fear, there was a certain doubt.  For doubt is one of those
mental conditions whose calling we cannot control. The end of the doubting may not be a reality
to us, or be accepted as a possibility.  These things cannot forego the existence of the doubt.
"For even if a man," says Victor Cousin, "doubt everything else, at least he cannot doubt that
he doubts."  The doubt had at times been on me that my Lady of the Shroud was a Vampire.  Much
that had happened seemed to point that way, and here, on the very threshold of the Unknown,
when, through the door which I was pushing open, my eyes met only an expanse of absolute blackness,
all doubts which had ever been seemed to surround me in a legion.  I have heard that, when
a man is drowning, there comes a time when his whole life passes in review during the space
of time which cannot be computed as even a part of a second.  So it was to me in the moment
of my body passing into the church.  In that moment came to my mind all that had been, which
bore on the knowledge of my Lady; and the general tendency was to prove or convince that she
was indeed a Vampire. Much that had happened, or become known to me, seemed to justify the
resolving of doubt into belief.  Even my own reading of the books in Aunt Janet's little library,
and the dear lady's comments on them, mingled with her own uncanny beliefs, left little opening
for doubt.  My having to help my Lady over the threshold of my house on her first entry was
in accord with Vampire tradition; so, too, her flying at cock-crow from the warmth in which
she revelled on that strange first night of our meeting; so, too, her swift departure at midnight
on the second.  Into the same category came the facts of her constant wearing of her Shroud,
even her pledging herself, and me also, on the fragment torn from it, which she had given to
me as a souvenir; her lying still in the glass-covered tomb; her coming alone to the most secret
places in a fortified Castle where every aperture was secured by unopened locks and bolts;
her very movements, though all of grace, as she flitted noiselessly through the gloom of night.

All these things, and a thousand others of lesser import, seemed, for the moment, to have consolidated
an initial belief.  But then came the supreme recollections of how she had lain in my arms;
of her kisses on my lips; of the beating of her heart against my own; of her sweet words of
belief and faith breathed in my ear in intoxicating whispers; of . . . I paused.  No!  I could
not accept belief as to her being other than a living woman of soul and sense, of flesh and
blood, of all the sweet and passionate instincts of true and perfect womanhood.

And so, in spite of all--in spite of all beliefs, fixed or transitory, with a mind whirling
amid contesting forces and compelling beliefs--I stepped into the church overwhelmed with that
most receptive of atmospheres--doubt.

In one thing only was I fixed: here at least was no doubt or misgiving whatever.  I intended
to go through what I had undertaken.  Moreover, I felt that I was strong enough to carry out
my intention, whatever might be of the Unknown--however horrible, however terrible.

When I had entered the church and closed the heavy door behind me, the sense of darkness and
loneliness in all their horror enfolded me round. The great church seemed a living mystery,
and served as an almost terrible background to thoughts and remembrances of unutterable gloom.
My adventurous life has had its own schooling to endurance and upholding one's courage in trying
times; but it has its contra in fulness of memory.

I felt my way forward with both hands and feet.  Every second seemed as if it had brought me
at last to a darkness which was actually tangible. All at once, and with no heed of sequence
or order, I was conscious of all around me, the knowledge or perception of which--or even speculation
on the subject--had never entered my mind.  They furnished the darkness with which I was encompassed
with all the crowded phases of a dream.  I knew that all around me were memorials of the dead--that
in the Crypt deep-wrought in the rock below my feet lay the dead themselves.  Some of them,
perhaps--one of them I knew--had even passed the grim portals of time Unknown, and had, by
some mysterious power or agency, come back again to material earth.  There was no resting-place
for thought when I knew that the very air which I breathed might be full of denizens of the
spirit-world.  In that impenetrable blackness was a world of imagining whose possibilities
of horror were endless.

I almost fancied that I could see with mortal eyes down through that rocky floor to where,
in the lonely Crypt, lay, in her tomb of massive stone and under that bewildering coverlet
of glass, the woman whom I love.  I could see her beautiful face, her long black lashes, her
sweet mouth--which I had kissed--relaxed in the sleep of death.  I could note the voluminous
shroud--a piece of which as a precious souvenir lay even then so close to my heart--the snowy
woollen coverlet wrought over in gold with sprigs of pine, the soft dent in the cushion on
which her head must for so long have lain.  I could see myself--within my eyes the memory of
that first visit--coming once again with glad step to renew that dear sight--dear, though it
scorched my eyes and harrowed my heart--and finding the greater sorrow, the greater desolation
of the empty tomb!

There!  I felt that I must think no more of that lest the thought should unnerve me when I
should most want all my courage.  That way madness lay! The darkness had already sufficient
terrors of its own without bringing to it such grim remembrances and imaginings . . . And I
had yet to go through some ordeal which, even to her who had passed and repassed the portals
of death, was full of fear.

It was a merciful relief to me when, in groping my way forwards through the darkness, I struck
against some portion of the furnishing of the church.  Fortunately I was all strung up to tension,
else I should never have been able to control instinctively, as I did, the shriek which was
rising to my lips.

I would have given anything to have been able to light even a match.  A single second of light
would, I felt, have made me my own man again.  But I knew that this would be against the implied
condition of my being there at all, and might have had disastrous consequences to her whom
I had come to save.  It might even frustrate my scheme, and altogether destroy my opportunity.
At that moment it was borne upon me more strongly than ever that this was not a mere fight
for myself or my own selfish purposes--not merely an adventure or a struggle for only life
and death against unknown difficulties and dangers.  It was a fight on behalf of her I loved,
not merely for her life, but perhaps even for her soul.

And yet this very thinking--understanding--created a new form of terror. For in that grim,
shrouding darkness came memories of other moments of terrible stress.

Of wild, mystic rites held in the deep gloom of African forests, when, amid scenes of revolting
horror, Obi and the devils of his kind seemed to reveal themselves to reckless worshippers,
surfeited with horror, whose lives counted for naught; when even human sacrifice was an episode,
and the reek of old deviltries and recent carnage tainted the air, till even I, who was, at
the risk of my life, a privileged spectator who had come through dangers without end to behold
the scene, rose and fled in horror.

Of scenes of mystery enacted in rock-cut temples beyond the Himalayas, whose fanatic priests,
cold as death and as remorseless, in the reaction of their phrenzy of passion, foamed at the
mouth and then sank into marble quiet, as with inner eyes they beheld the visions of the hellish
powers which they had invoked.

Of wild, fantastic dances of the Devil-worshippers of Madagascar, where even the very semblance
of humanity disappeared in the fantastic excesses of their orgies.

Of strange doings of gloom and mystery in the rock-perched monasteries of Thibet.

Of awful sacrifices, all to mystic ends, in the innermost recesses of Cathay.

