Gustavus Adolphus had flattered him with the promise of the Duchy of Franconia, to be formed
out of the Bishoprics of Wurtzburg and Bamberg, and he now insisted on the performance of this
pledge.  He at the same time demanded the chief command, as generalissimo of Sweden.  The abuse
which the Duke of Weimar thus made of his influence, so irritated Oxenstiern, that, in the
first moment of his displeasure, he gave him his dismissal from the Swedish service.  But he
soon thought better of it, and determined, instead of sacrificing so important a leader, to
attach him to the Swedish interests at any cost.  He therefore granted to him the Franconian
bishoprics, as a fief of the Swedish crown, reserving, however, the two fortresses of Wurtzburg
and Koenigshofen, which were to be garrisoned by the Swedes; and also engaged, in name of the
Swedish crown, to secure these territories to the duke.  His demand of the supreme authority
was evaded on some specious pretext.  The duke did not delay to display his gratitude for this
valuable grant, and by his influence and activity soon restored tranquillity to the army. Large
sums of money, and still more extensive estates, were divided among the officers, amounting
in value to about five millions of dollars, and to which they had no other right but that of
conquest.  In the mean time, however, the opportunity for a great undertaking had been lost,
and the united generals divided their forces to oppose the enemy in other quarters.

Gustavus Horn, after a short inroad into the Upper Palatinate, and the capture of Neumark,
directed his march towards the Swabian frontier, where the Imperialists, strongly reinforced,
threatened Wuertemberg.  At his approach, the enemy retired to the Lake of Constance, but only
to show the Swedes the road into a district hitherto unvisited by war.  A post on the entrance
to Switzerland, would be highly serviceable to the Swedes, and the town of Kostnitz seemed
peculiarly well fitted to be a point of communication between him and the confederated cantons.
Accordingly, Gustavus Horn immediately commenced the siege of it; but destitute of artillery,
for which he was obliged to send to Wirtemberg, he could not press the attack with sufficient
vigour, to prevent the enemy from throwing supplies into the town, which the lake afforded
them convenient opportunity of doing.  He, therefore, after an ineffectual attempt, quitted
the place and its neighbourhood, and hastened to meet a more threatening danger upon the Danube.

At the Emperor's instigation, the Cardinal Infante, the brother of Philip IV.  of Spain, and
the Viceroy of Milan, had raised an army of 14,000 men, intended to act upon the Rhine, independently
of Wallenstein, and to protect Alsace.  This force now appeared in Bavaria, under the command
of the Duke of Feria, a Spaniard; and, that they might be directly employed against the Swedes,
Altringer was ordered to join them with his corps.  Upon the first intelligence of their approach,
Horn had summoned to his assistance the Palsgrave of Birkenfeld, from the Rhine; and being
joined by him at Stockach, boldly advanced to meet the enemy's army of 30,000 men.

The latter had taken the route across the Danube into Swabia, where Gustavus Horn came so close
upon them, that the two armies were only separated from each other by half a German mile. 
But, instead of accepting the offer of battle, the Imperialists moved by the Forest towns towards
Briesgau and Alsace, where they arrived in time to relieve Breysack, and to arrest the victorious
progress of the Rhinegrave, Otto Louis.  The latter had, shortly before, taken the Forest towns,
and, supported by the Palatine of Birkenfeld, who had liberated the Lower Palatinate and beaten
the Duke of Lorraine out of the field, had once more given the superiority to the Swedish arms
in that quarter.  He was now forced to retire before the superior numbers of the enemy; but
Horn and Birkenfeld quickly advanced to his support, and the Imperialists, after a brief triumph,
were again expelled from Alsace.  The severity of the autumn, in which this hapless retreat
had to be conducted, proved fatal to most of the Italians; and their leader, the Duke of Feria,
died of grief at the failure of his enterprise.

In the mean time, Duke Bernard of Weimar had taken up his position on the Danube, with eighteen
regiments of infantry and 140 squadrons of horse, to cover Franconia, and to watch the movements
of the Imperial-Bavarian army upon that river.  No sooner had Altringer departed, to join the
Italians under Feria, than Bernard, profiting by his absence, hastened across the Danube, and
with the rapidity of lightning appeared before Ratisbon.  The possession of this town would
ensure the success of the Swedish designs upon Bavaria and Austria; it would establish them
firmly on the Danube, and provide a safe refuge in case of defeat, while it alone could give
permanence to their conquests in that quarter.  To defend Ratisbon, was the urgent advice which
the dying Tilly left to the Elector; and Gustavus Adolphus had lamented it as an irreparable
loss, that the Bavarians had anticipated him in taking possession of this place.  Indescribable,
therefore, was the consternation of Maximilian, when Duke Bernard suddenly appeared before
the town, and prepared in earnest to besiege it.

The garrison consisted of not more than fifteen companies, mostly newly-raised soldiers; although
that number was more than sufficient to weary out an enemy of far superior force, if supported
by well-disposed and warlike inhabitants.  But this was not the greatest danger which the Bavarian
garrison had to contend against.  The Protestant inhabitants of Ratisbon, equally jealous of
their civil and religious freedom, had unwillingly submitted to the yoke of Bavaria, and had
long looked with impatience for the appearance of a deliverer.  Bernard's arrival before the
walls filled them with lively joy; and there was much reason to fear that they would support
the attempts of the besiegers without, by exciting a tumult within.  In this perplexity, the
Elector addressed the most pressing entreaties to the Emperor and the Duke of Friedland to
assist him, were it only with 5,000 men.  Seven messengers in succession were despatched by
Ferdinand to Wallenstein, who promised immediate succours, and even announced to the Elector
the near advance of 12,000 men under Gallas; but at the same time forbade that general, under
pain of death, to march.  Meanwhile the Bavarian commandant of Ratisbon, in the hope of speedy
assistance, made the best preparations for defence, armed the Roman Catholic peasants, disarmed
and carefully watched the Protestant citizens, lest they should attempt any hostile design
against the garrison.  But as no relief arrived, and the enemy's artillery incessantly battered
the walls, he consulted his own safety, and that of the garrison, by an honourable capitulation,
and abandoned the Bavarian officials and ecclesiastics to the conqueror's mercy.

The possession of Ratisbon, enlarged the projects of the duke, and Bavaria itself now appeared
too narrow a field for his bold designs.  He determined to penetrate to the frontiers of Austria,
to arm the Protestant peasantry against the Emperor, and restore to them their religious liberty.
He had already taken Straubingen, while another Swedish army was advancing successfully along
the northern bank of the Danube.  At the head of his Swedes, bidding defiance to the severity
of the weather, he reached the mouth of the Iser, which he passed in the presence of the Bavarian
General Werth, who was encamped on that river. Passau and Lintz trembled for their fate; the
terrified Emperor redoubled his entreaties and commands to Wallenstein, to hasten with all
speed to the relief of the hard-pressed Bavarians.  But here the victorious Bernard, of his
own accord, checked his career of conquest. Having in front of him the river Inn, guarded by
a number of strong fortresses, and behind him two hostile armies, a disaffected country, and
the river Iser, while his rear was covered by no tenable position, and no entrenchment could
be made in the frozen ground, and threatened by the whole force of Wallenstein, who had at
last resolved to march to the Danube, by a timely retreat he escaped the danger of being cut
off from Ratisbon, and surrounded by the enemy.  He hastened across the Iser to the Danube,
to defend the conquests he had made in the Upper Palatinate against Wallenstein, and fully
resolved not to decline a battle, if necessary, with that general.  But Wallenstein, who was
not disposed for any great exploits on the Danube, did not wait for his approach; and before
the Bavarians could congratulate themselves on his arrival, he suddenly withdrew again into
Bohemia.  The duke thus ended his victorious campaign, and allowed his troops their well-earned
repose in winter quarters upon an enemy's country.

While in Swabia the war was thus successfully conducted by Gustavus Horn, and on the Upper
and Lower Rhine by the Palatine of Birkenfeld, General Baudissen, and the Rhinegrave Otto Louis,
and by Duke Bernard on the Danube; the reputation of the Swedish arms was as gloriously sustained
in Lower Saxony and Westphalia by the Duke of Lunenburg and the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel.
The fortress of Hamel was taken by Duke George, after a brave defence, and a brilliant victory
obtained over the imperial General Gronsfeld, by the united Swedish and Hessian armies, near
Oldendorf.  Count Wasaburg, a natural son of Gustavus Adolphus, showed himself in this battle
worthy of his descent.  Sixteen pieces of cannon, the whole baggage of the Imperialists, together
with 74 colours, fell into the hands of the Swedes; 3,000 of the enemy perished on the field,
and nearly the same number were taken prisoners.  The town of Osnaburg surrendered to the Swedish
Colonel Knyphausen, and Paderborn to the Landgrave of Hesse; while, on the other hand, Bueckeburg,
a very important place for the Swedes, fell into the hands of the Imperialists. The Swedish
banners were victorious in almost every quarter of Germany; and the year after the death of
Gustavus, left no trace of the loss which had been sustained in the person of that great leader.

In a review of the important events which signalized the campaign of 1633, the inactivity of
a man, of whom the highest expectations had been formed, justly excites astonishment.  Among
all the generals who distinguished themselves in this campaign, none could be compared with
Wallenstein, in experience, talents, and reputation; and yet, after the battle of Lutzen, we
lose sight of him entirely.  The fall of his great rival had left the whole theatre of glory
open to him; all Europe was now attentively awaiting those exploits, which should efface the
remembrance of his defeat, and still prove to the world his military superiority.  Nevertheless,
he continued inactive in Bohemia, while the Emperor's losses in Bavaria, Lower Saxony, and
the Rhine, pressingly called for his presence--a conduct equally unintelligible to friend and
foe--the terror, and, at the same time, the last hope of the Emperor. After the defeat of Lutzen
he had hastened into Bohemia, where he instituted the strictest inquiry into the conduct of
his officers in that battle.  Those whom the council of war declared guilty of misconduct,
were put to death without mercy, those who had behaved with bravery, rewarded with princely
munificence, and the memory of the dead honoured by splendid monuments.  During the winter,
he oppressed the imperial provinces by enormous contributions, and exhausted the Austrian territories
by his winter quarters, which he purposely avoided taking up in an enemy's country.  And in
the spring of 1633, instead of being the first to open the campaign, with this well-chosen
and well-appointed army, and to make a worthy display of his great abilities, he was the last
who appeared in the field; and even then, it was an hereditary province of Austria, which he
selected as the seat of war.

Of all the Austrian provinces, Silesia was most exposed to danger. Three different armies,
a Swedish under Count Thurn, a Saxon under Arnheim and the Duke of Lauenburg, and one of Brandenburg
under Borgsdorf, had at the same time carried the war into this country; they had already taken
possession of the most important places, and even Breslau had embraced the cause of the allies.
But this crowd of commanders and armies was the very means of saving this province to the Emperor;
for the jealousy of the generals, and the mutual hatred of the Saxons and the Swedes, never
allowed them to act with unanimity. Arnheim and Thurn contended for the chief command; the
troops of Brandenburg and Saxony combined against the Swedes, whom they looked upon as troublesome
strangers who ought to be got rid of as soon as possible.  The Saxons, on the contrary, lived
on a very intimate footing with the Imperialists, and the officers of both these hostile armies
often visited and entertained each other.  The Imperialists were allowed to remove their property
without hindrance, and many did not affect to conceal that they had received large sums from
Vienna.  Among such equivocal allies, the Swedes saw themselves sold and betrayed; and any
great enterprise was out of the question, while so bad an understanding prevailed between the
troops.  General Arnheim, too, was absent the greater part of the time; and when he at last
returned, Wallenstein was fast approaching the frontiers with a formidable force.

His army amounted to 40,000 men, while to oppose him the allies had only 24,000.  They nevertheless
resolved to give him battle, and marched to Munsterberg, where he had formed an intrenched
camp.  But Wallenstein remained inactive for eight days; he then left his intrenchments, and
marched slowly and with composure to the enemy's camp.  But even after quitting his position,
and when the enemy, emboldened by his past delay, manfully prepared to receive him, he declined
the opportunity of fighting.  The caution with which he avoided a battle was imputed to fear;
but the well-established reputation of Wallenstein enabled him to despise this suspicion. 
The vanity of the allies allowed them not to see that he purposely saved them a defeat, because
a victory at that time would not have served his own ends.  To convince them of his superior
power, and that his inactivity proceeded not from any fear of them, he put to death the commander
of a castle that fell into his hands, because he had refused at once to surrender an untenable
place.

