But the shoulder was indignantly withdrawn and the hard-handed son of toil went to earth. 
He floundered a bit, but came up smiling, arranged his attitude with the same careful detail
as before, only choosing Professor Dogtick's shoulder for a support, opened his lips and--

Went to earth again.  He presently scrambled up once more, still smiling, made a loose effort
to brush the dust off his coat and legs, but a smart pass of his hand missed entirely, and
the force of the unchecked impulse stewed him suddenly around, twisted his legs together, and
projected him, limber and sprawling, into the lap of the Lord Longlegs.  Two or three scholars
sprang forward, flung the low creature head over heels into a corner, and reinstated the patrician,
smoothing his ruffled dignity with many soothing and regretful speeches.  Professor Bull Frog
roared out:

"No more of this, sirrah Tumble-Bug!  Say your say and then get you about your business with
speed!  Quick--what is your errand?  Come move off a trifle; you smell like a stable; what
have you been at?"

"Please ('ic!) please your worship I chanced to light upon a find.  But no m(e-uck!) matter
'bout that.  There's b('ic !) been another find which--beg pardon, your honors, what was that
th('ic!) thing that ripped by here first?"

"It was the Vernal Equinox."

"Inf('ic!)fernal equinox.  'At's all right.  D('ic !) Dunno him.  What's other one?"

"The transit of Venus.

"G('ic !) Got me again.  No matter.  Las' one dropped something."

"Ah, indeed!  Good luck!  Good news!  Quick what is it?"

"M('ic!) Mosey out 'n' see.  It'll pay."

No more votes were taken for four-and-twenty hours.  Then the following entry was made:

"The commission went in a body to view the find.  It was found to consist of a hard, smooth,
huge object with a rounded summit surmounted by a short upright projection resembling a section
of a cabbage stalk divided transversely.  This projection was not solid, but was a hollow cylinder
plugged with a soft woody substance unknown to our region--that is, it had been so plugged,
but unfortunately this obstruction had been heedlessly removed by Norway Rat, Chief of the
Sappers and Miners, before our arrival.  The vast object before us, so mysteriously conveyed
from the glittering domains of space, was found to be hollow and nearly filled with a pungent
liquid of a brownish hue, like rainwater that has stood for some time.  And such a spectacle
as met our view!  Norway Rat was perched upon the summit engaged in thrusting his tail into
the cylindrical projection, drawing it out dripping, permitting the struggling multitude of
laborers to suck the end of it, then straightway reinserting it and delivering the fluid to
the mob as before.  Evidently this liquor had strangely potent qualities; for all that partook
of it were immediately exalted with great and pleasurable emotions, and went staggering about
singing ribald songs, embracing, fighting, dancing, discharging irruptions of profanity, and
defying all authority.  Around us struggled a massed and uncontrolled mob--uncontrolled and
likewise uncontrollable, for the whole army, down to the very sentinels, were mad like the
rest, by reason of the drink.  We were seized upon by these reckless creatures, and within
the hour we, even we, were undistinguishable from the rest--the demoralization was complete
and universal.  In time the camp wore itself out with its orgies and sank into a stolid and
pitiable stupor, in whose mysterious bonds rank was forgotten and strange bedfellows made,
our eyes, at the resurrection, being blasted and our souls petrified with the incredible spectacle
of that intolerable stinking scavenger, the Tumble-Bug, and the illustrious patrician my Lord
Grand Daddy, Duke of Longlegs, lying soundly steeped in sleep, and clasped lovingly in each
other's arms, the like whereof hath not been seen in all the ages that tradition compasseth,
and doubtless none shall ever in this world find faith to master the belief of it save only
we that have beheld the damnable and unholy vision.  Thus inscrutable be the ways of God, whose
will be done!

"This day, by order, did the engineer-in-chief, Herr Spider, rig the necessary tackle for the
overturning of the vast reservoir, and so its calamitous contents were discharged in a torrent
upon the thirsty earth, which drank it up, and now there is no more danger, we reserving but
a few drops for experiment and scrutiny, and to exhibit to the king and subsequently preserve
among the wonders of the museum.  What this liquid is has been determined.  It is without question
that fierce and most destructive fluid called lightning.  It was wrested, in its container,
from its storehouse in the clouds, by the resistless might of the flying planet, and hurled
at our feet as she sped by.  An interesting discovery here results.  Which is, that lightning,
kept to itself, is quiescent; it is the assaulting contact of the thunderbolt that releases
it from captivity, ignites its awful fires, and so produces an instantaneous combustion and
explosion which spread disaster and desolation far and wide in the earth."

After another day devoted to rest and recovery, the expedition proceeded upon its way.  Some
days later it went into camp in a pleasant part of the plain, and the savants sallied forth
to see what they might find. Their reward was at hand.  Professor Bull Frog discovered a strange
tree, and called his comrades.  They inspected it with profound interest.  It was very tall
and straight, and wholly devoid of bark, limbs, or foliage. By triangulation Lord Longlegs
determined its altitude; Herr Spider measured its circumference at the base and computed the
circumference at its top by a mathematical demonstration based upon the warrant furnished by
the uniform degree of its taper upward.  It was considered a very extraordinary find; and since
it was a tree of a hitherto unknown species, Professor Woodlouse gave it a name of a learned
sound, being none other than that of Professor Bull Frog translated into the ancient Mastodon
language, for it had always been the custom with discoverers to perpetuate their names and
honor themselves by this sort of connection with their discoveries.

Now Professor Field-Mouse having placed his sensitive ear to the tree, detected a rich, harmonious
sound issuing from it.  This surprising thing was tested and enjoyed by each scholar in turn,
and great was the gladness and astonishment of all.  Professor Woodlouse was requested to add
to and extend the tree's name so as to make it suggest the musical quality it possessed--which
he did, furnishing the addition Anthem Singer, done into the Mastodon tongue.

By this time Professor Snail was making some telescopic inspections. He discovered a great
number of these trees, extending in a single rank, with wide intervals between, as far as his
instrument would carry, both southward and northward.  He also presently discovered that all
these trees were bound together, near their tops, by fourteen great ropes, one above another,
which ropes were continuous, from tree to tree, as far as his vision could reach.  This was
surprising.  Chief Engineer Spider ran aloft and soon reported that these ropes were simply
a web hung thereby some colossal member of his own species, for he could see its prey dangling
here and there from the strands, in the shape of mighty shreds and rags that had a woven look
about their texture and were no doubt the discarded skins of prodigious insects which had been
caught and eaten. And then he ran along one of the ropes to make a closer inspection, but felt
a smart sudden burn on the soles of his feet, accompanied by a paralyzing shock, wherefore
he let go and swung himself to the earth by a thread of his own spinning, and advised all to
hurry at once to camp, lest the monster should appear and get as much interested in the savants
as they were in him and his works.  So they departed with speed, making notes about the gigantic
web as they went.  And that evening the naturalist of the expedition built a beautiful model
of the colossal spider, having no need to see it in order to do this, because he had picked
up a fragment of its vertebra by the tree, and so knew exactly what the creature looked like
and what its habits and its preferences were by this simple evidence alone.  He built it with
a tail, teeth, fourteen legs, and a snout, and said it ate grass, cattle, pebbles, and dirt
with equal enthusiasm.  This animal was regarded as a very precious addition to science.  It
was hoped a dead one might be found to stuff. Professor Woodlouse thought that he and his brother
scholars, by lying hid and being quiet, might maybe catch a live one.  He was advised to try
it.  Which was all the attention that was paid to his suggestion.  The conference ended with
the naming the monster after the naturalist, since he, after God, had created it.

"And improved it, mayhap," muttered the Tumble-Bug, who was intruding again, according to his
idle custom and his unappeasable curiosity.

END OF PART FIRST

SOME LEARNED FABLES FOR GOOD OLD BOYS AND GIRLS

PART SECOND

HOW THE ANIMALS OF THE WOOD COMPLETED THEIR SCIENTIFIC LABORS

A week later the expedition camped in the midst of a collection of wonderful curiosities. 
These were a sort of vast caverns of stone that rose singly and in bunches out of the plain
by the side of the river which they had first seen when they emerged from the forest.  These
caverns stood in long, straight rows on opposite sides of broad aisles that were bordered with
single ranks of trees.  The summit of each cavern sloped sharply both ways.  Several horizontal
rows of great square holes, obstructed by a thin, shiny, transparent substance, pierced the
frontage of each cavern.  Inside were caverns within caverns; and one might ascend and visit
these minor compartments by means of curious winding ways consisting of continuous regular
terraces raised one above another. There were many huge, shapeless objects in each compartment
which were considered to have been living creatures at one time, though now the thin brown
skin was shrunken and loose, and rattled when disturbed.  Spiders were here in great number,
and their cobwebs, stretched in all directions and wreathing the great skinny dead together,
were a pleasant spectacle, since they inspired with life and wholesome cheer a scene which
would otherwise have brought to the mind only a sense of forsakenness and desolation.  Information
was sought of these spiders, but in vain.  They were of a different nationality from those
with the expedition, and their language seemed but a musical, meaningless jargon.  They were
a timid, gentle race, but ignorant, and heathenish worshipers of unknown gods. The expedition
detailed a great detachment of missionaries to teach them the true religion, and in a week's
time a precious work had been wrought among those darkened creatures, not three families being
by that time at peace with each other or having a settled belief in any system of religion
whatever.  This encouraged the expedition to establish a colony of missionaries there permanently,
that the work of grace might go on.

But let us not outrun our narrative.  After close examination of the fronts of the caverns,
and much thinking and exchanging of theories, the scientists determined the nature of these
singular formations.  They said that each belonged mainly to the Old Red Sandstone period;
that the cavern fronts rose in innumerable and wonderfully regular strata high in the air,
each stratum about five frog-spans thick, and that in the present discovery lay an overpowering
refutation of all received geology; for between every two layers of Old Red Sandstone reposed
a thin layer of decomposed limestone; so instead of there having been but one Old Red Sandstone
period there had certainly been not less than a hundred and seventy-five!  And by the same
token it was plain that there had also been a hundred and seventy-five floodings of the earth
and depositings of limestone strata!  The unavoidable deduction from which pair of facts was
the overwhelming truth that the world, instead of being only two hundred thousand years old,
was older by millions upon millions of years!  And there was another curious thing: every stratum
of Old Red Sandstone was pierced and divided at mathematically regular intervals by vertical
strata of limestone.  Up-shootings of igneous rock through fractures in water formations were
common; but here was the first instance where water-formed rock had been so projected.  It
was a great and noble discovery, and its value to science was considered to be inestimable.

A critical examination of some of the lower strata demonstrated the presence of fossil ants
and tumble-bugs (the latter accompanied by their peculiar goods), and with high gratification
the fact was enrolled upon the scientific record; for this was proof that these vulgar laborers
belonged to the first and lowest orders of created beings, though at the same time there was
something repulsive in the reflection that the perfect and exquisite creature of the modern
uppermost order owed its origin to such ignominious beings through the mysterious law of Development
of Species.

The Tumble-Bug, overhearing this discussion, said he was willing that the parvenus of these
new times should find what comfort they might in their wise-drawn theories, since as far as
he was concerned he was content to be of the old first families and proud to point back to
his place among the old original aristocracy of the land.

"Enjoy your mushroom dignity, stinking of the varnish of yesterday's veneering, since you like
it," said he; "suffice it for the Tumble-Bugs that they come of a race that rolled their fragrant
spheres down the solemn aisles of antiquity, and left their imperishable works embalmed in
the Old Red Sandstone to proclaim it to the wasting centuries as they file along the highway
of Time!"

"Oh, take a walk!" said the chief of the expedition, with derision.

The summer passed, and winter approached.  In and about many of the caverns were what seemed
to be inscriptions.  Most of the scientists said they were inscriptions, a few said they were
not.  The chief philologist, Professor Woodlouse, maintained that they were writings, done
in a character utterly unknown to scholars, and in a language equally unknown. He had early
ordered his artists and draftsmen to make facsimiles of all that were discovered; and had set
himself about finding the key to the hidden tongue.  In this work he had followed the method
which had always been used by decipherers previously.  That is to say, he placed a number of
copies of inscriptions before him and studied them both collectively and in detail.  To begin
with, he placed the following copies together:

     THE AMERICAN HOTEL.      MEALS AT ALL HOURS.
     THE SHADES.              NO SMOKING.
     BOATS FOR HIRE CHEAP     UNION PRAYER MEETING, 6 P.M.
     BILLIARDS.               THE WATERSIDE JOURNAL.
     THE A1 BARBER SHOP.      TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
     KEEP OFF THE GRASS.      TRY BRANDRETH'S PILLS.
     COTTAGES FOR RENT DURING THE WATERING SEASON.
     FOR SALE CHEAP.          FOR SALE CHEAP.
     FOR SALE CHEAP.          FOR SALE CHEAP.

At first it seemed to the professor that this was a sign-language, and that each word was represented
by a distinct sign; further examination convinced him that it was a written language, and that
every letter of its alphabet was represented by a character of its own; and finally he decided
that it was a language which conveyed itself partly by letters, and partly by signs or hieroglyphics.
This conclusion was forced upon him by the discovery of several specimens of the following nature:

He observed that certain inscriptions were met with in greater frequency than others.  Such
as "FOR SALE CHEAP"; "BILLIARDS"; "S. T.--1860--X"; "KENO"; "ALE ON DRAUGHT."  Naturally, then,
these must be religious maxims.  But this idea was cast aside by and by, as the mystery of
the strange alphabet began to clear itself.  In time, the professor was enabled to translate
several of the inscriptions with considerable plausibility, though not to the perfect satisfaction
of all the scholars. Still, he made constant and encouraging progress.

Finally a cavern was discovered with these inscriptions upon it:

                           WATERSIDE MUSEUM.
                           Open at All Hours.
                          Admission 50 cents.
                        WONDERFUL COLLECTION OF
                      WAX-WORKS, ANCIENT FOSSILS,
                                  ETC.

Professor Woodlouse affirmed that the word "Museum" was equivalent to the phrase "lumgath molo,"
or "Burial Place."  Upon entering, the scientists were well astonished.  But what they saw
may be best conveyed in the language of their own official report:

"Erect, in a row, were a sort of rigid great figures which struck us instantly as belonging
to the long extinct species of reptile called MAN, described in our ancient records.  This
was a peculiarly gratifying discovery, because of late times it has become fashionable to regard
this creature as a myth and a superstition, a work of the inventive imaginations of our remote
ancestors.  But here, indeed, was Man, perfectly preserved, in a fossil state.  And this was
his burial place, as already ascertained by the inscription.  And now it began to be suspected
that the caverns we had been inspecting had been his ancient haunts in that old time that he
roamed the earth--for upon the breast of each of these tall fossils was an inscription in the
character heretofore noticed.  One read, 'CAPTAIN KIDD THE PIRATE'; another, 'QUEEN VICTORIA';
another, 'ABE LINCOLN'; another, 'GEORGE WASHINGTON,' etc.

"With feverish interest we called for our ancient scientific records to discover if perchance
the description of Man there set down would tally with the fossils before us.  Professor Woodlouse
read it aloud in its quaint and musty phraseology, to wit:

