Or let us take another instance from the later days of Assyrian history, the period which immediately
precedes the first intercourse between Greece and the East. We are told in the Books of the
Chronicles that Manasseh of Judah rebelled against his Assyrian master and was in consequence
carried in chains to Babylon, where he was pardoned and restored to his ancestral throne. The
story seemed at first sight of doubtful authenticity. It is not even alluded to in the Books
of the Kings; Nineveh and not Babylon was the capital of the Assyrian empire, and the Assyrian
monarchs were not in the habit of forgiving their revolted vassals, much less of sending them
back to their own kingdoms. And yet the cuneiform inscriptions have smoothed away all these
objections. Esar-haddon mentions Manasseh among the subject princes of the West, and it was
just Esar-haddon who rebuilt Babylon after its destruction by his father, and made it his residence
during a part of the year. Moreover, other instances are known in which a revolted prince was
reinstated in his former power. Thus Assur-bani-pal forgave the Egyptian prince of Sais when,
like Manasseh, he had been sent in chains to Assyria after an unsuccessful rebellion, and restored
him to his old principality. What was done by Assur-bani-pal might well have been done by the
more merciful Esar-haddon, who showed himself throughout his reign anxious to conciliate the
conquered populations. It is even possible that Assur-bani-pal himself was the sovereign against
whom Manasseh rebelled and before whom he was brought. In this case Manasseh's revolt would
have been part of that general revolt of the Assyrian provinces under the leadership of Babylon,
which shook the empire to its foundations, and in which the Assyrian king expressly tells us
Palestine joined. The Jewish king would thus have been carried to Babylon after the capture
of that city by the Assyrian forces of Assur-bani-pal.

But the recent history of Oriental archaeology is strewn with instances of the danger of historical
scepticism where the evidence is defective, and a single discovery may at any moment throw
new and unexpected light on the materials we possess. Who, for instance, could have supposed
that the name of the Israelites would ever be found on an Egyptian monument? They were but
a small and despised body of public slaves, settled in Goshen, on the extreme skirts of the
Egyptian territory. And yet in 1886 a granite stela was found by Professor Flinders Petrie
containing a hymn of victory in honour of Meneptah the son of Ramses II., and declaring how,
among other triumphs, "the Israelites" had been left "without seed." The names of all the other
vanquished or subject peoples mentioned in the hymn have attached to them the determinative
of place; the Israelites alone are without it; they alone have no fixed habitation, no definite
locality of their own, so far at least as the writer knew. It would seem that they had already
escaped into the desert, and been lost to sight in its recesses. Who could ever have imagined
that in such a case an Egyptian poet would have judged it worth his while even to allude to
the vanished serfs?

Still more recently the tomb of Menes, the founder of the united Egyptian monarchy, and the
leader of the first historical dynasty, has been discovered by M. de Morgan at Negada, north
of Thebes. It was only a few months previously that the voice of historical criticism had authoritatively
declared him to be "fabulous" and "mythical." The "fabulous" Menes, nevertheless, has now proved
to be a very historical personage indeed; some of his bones are in the museum of Cairo, and
the objects disinterred in his tomb show that he belonged to an age of culture and intercourse
with distant lands. The hieroglyphic system of writing was already complete, and fragments
of obsidian vases turned on the lathe indicate commercial relations with the Ægean Sea.

If we turn to Babylonia the story is the same. Hardly had the critic pronounced Sargon of Akkad
to be a creature of myth, when at Niffer and Telloh monuments both of himself and of his son
were brought to light, which, as in the case of Menes, proved that this "creature of myth"
lived in an age of advanced culture and in the full blaze of history. At Niffer he and his
son Naram-Sin built a platform of huge bricks, each stamped with their names, and at Telloh
clay bullæ have been discovered, bearing the seals and addresses of the letters which were
conveyed during their reigns by a highly organised postal service along the highroads of the
kingdom. Numberless contract-tablets exist, dated in the year when Sargon "conquered the land
of the Amorites," as Syria and Canaan were called, or accomplished some other achievement;
and a cadastral survey of the district in which Telloh was situated, made for the purpose of
taxation, incidentally refers to "the governor" who was appointed over "the Amorites."

Perhaps, however, the discovery which above all others has revolutionised our conceptions of
early Oriental history, and reversed the critical judgments which had prevailed in regard to
it, was that of the cuneiform tablets of Tel el-Amarna. The discovery was made in 1887 at Tel
el-Amarna on the eastern bank of the Nile, midway between the modern towns of Minia and Siût.
Here is the site of the city built by Khu-n-Aten, the "Heretic" Pharaoh, when the dissensions
between himself and the Theban priesthood became too acute to allow him to remain any longer
in the capital of his fathers. He migrated northward, accordingly, with his court and the adherents
of the new creed which he sought to impose upon his subjects, carrying with him the archives
of the kingdom and the foreign correspondence of the empire. It was this foreign correspondence
which was embodied in the cuneiform tablets. They make it clear that even under Egyptian rule
the Babylonian language and the Babylonian system of writing continued to be the official language
and script of western Asia, and that the Egyptian government itself was forced to keep Babylonian
secretaries who understood them. The fact proves the long and permanent influence of Babylonian
culture from the banks of the Euphrates to the shores of the Mediterranean, and is intelligible
only in the light of the further fact that the empire of Sargon of Akkad had been founded more
than two thousand years before. Nothing but a prodigiously long lapse of time could explain
the firm hold thus obtained by a foreign language, and a system of writing the most complex
and difficult to learn that has ever been invented.

The tablets further prove the existence throughout the Oriental world of schools and libraries
where the Babylonian language and characters could be taught and learned and its voluminous
literature stored and studied. The age of Khu-n-Aten, which is also the age of Moses, was essentially
a literary age; a knowledge of reading and writing was widely spread, and an active correspondence
was being constantly carried on from one part of the civilised world to the other. Even the
Bedâwin shêkhs, who acted as free-lances in Palestine, sent letters to the Pharaoh and read
his replies. The archive-chambers of the cities of Canaan contained numberless documents contemporaneous
with the events they recorded, and the libraries were filled with the treasures of Babylonian
literature, with legends and stories of the gods, and the earlier history of the East. Doubtless,
as in Babylonia, so too in Palestine there were also in them contracts and inventories of property,
dated in the Babylonian fashion by the events which characterised the years of a king's reign.
The scribes and upper classes could read and write, and therefore had access to all these stores
of literature and historical materials.

There is no longer any reason, therefore, for doubting that Moses and his contemporaries could
have read and written books, or that the Hebrew legislator was learned in "all the wisdom of
the Egyptians." If we are to reject the historical trustworthiness of the Pentateuch, it must
be on other grounds than the assumption of the illiterateness of the age or the impossibility
of compiling at the time an accurate register of facts. The Tel el-Amarna tablets have made
it impossible to return to the old critical point of view; the probabilities henceforward are
in favour of the early date and historical truth of the Old Testament narratives, and not against
them. Accurately-dated history and a reading public existed in Babylonia long before the days
of Abraham; in the age of Moses the whole Eastern world from the Nile to the Euphrates was
knit together in the bonds of literary intercourse, and all who were in contact with the great
nations of the East--with Egypt, with Babylonia, or with Assyria--came of necessity under its
influence and held the book and its author in the highest reverence.

But besides thus revolutionising our ideas of the age that preceded the Hebrew Exodus, the
Tel el-Amarna letters have thrown a welcome light on the political causes of the Exodus itself.
They have made it clear that the reaction against the reforms and government of "the Heretic
King" Khu-n-Aten was as much national as religious. It was directed quite as much against the
foreigner who had usurped the chief offices of state, as against the religion which the foreigner
was believed to have brought with him. The rise of the Nineteenth dynasty marks the triumph
of the national uprising and the overthrow of Asiatic influence. The movement of which it was
the result resembled the revolt of Arabi in our own days. But there was no England at hand
to prevent the banishment of the stranger and his religion; the Semites who had practically
governed Egypt under Khu-n-Aten were expelled or slain, and hard measure was dealt out to such
of their kinsfolk as still remained in the land. The free-born sons of Israel in the district
of Goshen were turned into public serfs, and compelled to work at the buildings with which
Ramses II. was covering the soil of Egypt, and their "seed" was still further diminished by
the destruction of their male offspring, lest they should join the enemies of Egypt in any
future invasion of the country, or assist another attempt from within to subvert the old faith
of the people and the political supremacy of the Theban priests. That the fear was not without
justification is shown by the words of Meneptah, the son of Ramses, at the time when the very
existence of the Egyptian monarchy was threatened by the Libyan invasion from the west and
the sea-robbers who attacked it from the Greek seas. The Asiatic settlers, he tells us, had
pitched "their tents before Pi-Bailos" (or Belbeis) at the western extremity of the land of
Goshen, and the Egyptian "kings found themselves cut off in the midst of their cities, and
surrounded by earthworks, for they had no mercenaries to oppose to" the foe. It would seem
that the Israelites effected their escape under cover of the Libyan invasion in the fifth year
of Meneptah's reign, and on this account it is that their name is introduced into the pæan
wherein the destruction of the Libyan host is celebrated and the Pharaoh is declared to have
restored peace to the whole world.

If the history of Israel thus receives light and explanation on the one side from the revelations
of Oriental archaeology, on the other side it sometimes clears up difficulties in the history
of the great nations of Oriental antiquity. The Egyptologist, for instance, is confronted by
a fact towards the explanation of which the monuments furnish no help. This is the curious
change that passed over the tenure of land in Egypt during the period of Hyksos rule. When
the Fourteenth dynasty fell, a large part of the soil of Egypt was in the hands of private
holders, many of whom were great feudal landowners whose acknowledgment of the royal supremacy
was at times little more than nominal. When, however, the Hyksos were at last driven back to
Asia, and Ahmes succeeded in founding the Eighteenth dynasty, these landowners had disappeared.
All the landed estate of the country had passed into the possession of the Pharaoh and the
priests, and the old feudal aristocracy had been replaced by a bureaucracy, the members of
which owed their power and position to the king. The history of Joseph accounts for this, and
it is the only explanation of the fact which is at present forthcoming. Famine compelled the
people to sell their lands to the king and his minister, and a Hyksos Pharaoh and his Hebrew
vizier thus succeeded in destroying the older aristocracy and despoiling the natives of their
estates. It was probably at this period also that the public granaries, of which we hear so
much in the age of the Eighteenth dynasty, were first established in Egypt, in imitation of
those of Babylonia, where they had long been an institution, and a superintendent was appointed
over them who, as in Babylonia, virtually held the power of life and death in his hands.

One of the main results, then, of recent discovery in the East has been to teach us the solidarity
of ancient Oriental history, and the impossibility of forming a correct judgment in regard
to any one part of it without reference to the rest. Hebrew history is unintelligible as long
as it stands alone, and the attempt to interpret it apart and by itself has led to little else
than false and one-sided conclusions; it is only when read in the light of the history of the
great empires which flourished beside it that it can be properly understood. Israel and the
nations around it formed a whole, so far as the historian is concerned, which, like the elements
of a picture, cannot be torn asunder. If we would know the history of the one, we must know
the history of the other also. And each year is adding to our knowledge; new monuments are
being excavated, new inscriptions being read, and the revelations of to-day are surpassed by
those of to-morrow. We have already learnt much, but it is only a commencement; Egypt is only
now beginning to be scientifically explored, a few only of the multitudinous libraries of Babylonia
have been brought to light, and the soil of Assyria has been little more than touched. Elsewhere,
in Elam, in Mesopotamia, in Asia Minor, in Palestine itself, everything still remains to be
done. The harvest truly is plentiful, but the labourers are few.

We have, however, learnt some needful lessons. The historian has been warned against arguing
from the imperfection of his own knowledge, and rejecting an ancient narrative merely because
it seems unsupported by other testimony. He has been warned, too, against making his own prepossessions
and assumptions the test of historical truth, of laying down that a reported fact could not
have happened because it runs counter to what he assumes to have been the state of society
in some particular age. Above all, the lesson of modesty has been impressed upon him, modesty
in regard to the extent of his own knowledge and the fallibility of his own conclusions. It
does not follow that what we imagine ought to have happened has happened in reality; on the
contrary, the course of Oriental history has usually been very different from that dreamed
of by the European scholar in the quietude of his study. If Oriental archæology has taught
us nothing else, it has at least taught us how little we know.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

I. THE ISRAELITES

II. CANAAN

III. THE NATIONS OF THE SOUTH-EAST

IV. THE NATIONS OF THE NORTH-EAST

V. EGYPT

VI. BABYLONIA AND ASSYRIA

VII. CONCLUSION

APPENDICES

CHAPTER I

THE ISRAELITES

Israel traced its origin to Babylonia. It was from "Ur of the Chaldees" that Abraham "the Hebrew"
had come, the rock out of which it was hewn. Here on the western bank of the Euphrates was
the earliest home of the Hebrews, of whom the Israelites claimed to be a part.

But they were not the only nation of the ancient Oriental world which derived its ancestry
from Abraham. He was the father not only of the Israelites, but of the inhabitants of northern
and central Arabia as well. The Ishmaelites who were settled in the north of the Arabian peninsula,
the descendants of Keturah who colonised Midian and the western coast, were also his children.
Moab and Ammon, moreover, traced their pedigree to his nephew, while Edom was the elder brother
of Israel. Israel, in fact, was united by the closest ties of blood to all the populations
which in the historic age dwelt between the borders of Palestine and the mountain-ranges of
south-eastern Arabia. They formed a single family which claimed descent from a common ancestor.

Israel was the latest of them to appear on the scene of history. Moab and Ammon had subjugated
or absorbed the old Amorite population on the eastern side of the Jordan, Ishmael and the Keturites
had made themselves a home in Arabia, Edom had possessed itself of the mountain-fastnesses
of the Horite and the Amalekite, long before the Israelites had escaped from their bondage
in Egypt, or formed themselves into a nation in the desert. They were the youngest member of
the Hebrew family, though but for them the names of their brethren would have remained forgotten
and unknown. Israel needed the discipline of a long preparation for the part it was destined
to play in the future history of the world.

The Hebrews belonged to the Semitic race. The race is distinguished by certain common characteristics,
but more especially by the possession of a common type of language, which is markedly different
from the other languages of mankind. Its words are built on what is termed the principle of
triliteralism; the skeleton, as it were, of each of them consisting of three consonants, while
the vowels, which give flesh and life to the skeleton, vary according to the grammatical signification
of the word. The relations of grammar are thus expressed for the most part by changes of vocalic
sound, just as in English the plural of "man" is denoted by a change in the vowel. The verb
is but imperfectly developed; it is, in fact, rather a noun than a verb, expressing relation
rather than time. Compound words, moreover, are rare, the compounds of our European languages
being replaced in the Semitic dialects by separate words.

Perhaps one of the most remarkable characteristics of the Semitic family of speech is its conservatism
and resistance to change. As compared with the other languages of the world, its grammar and
vocabulary have alike undergone but little alteration in the course of the centuries during
which we can trace its existence. The very words which were used by the Babylonians four or
five thousand years ago, can still be heard, with the same meaning attached to them, in the
streets of Cairo. Kelb is "dog" in modern Arabic as kalbu was in ancient Babylonian, and the
modern Arabic tayyîb, "good," is the Babylonian tâbu. One of the results of this unchangeableness
of Semitic speech is the close similarity and relationship that exist between the various languages
that represent it. They are dialects rather than distinct languages, more closely resembling
one another than is the case even with the Romanic languages of modern Europe, which are descended
from Latin.

