'The Pretender!' said the priest, with some angry emphasis; but immediately softened his tone
and added, 'No doubt, however, that person is a pretender; and some people think his pretensions
are not ill founded. But, before running into politics, give me leave to say, that I am surprised
to find a gentleman of your opinions in habits of intimacy with Mr. Maxwell of Summertrees
and Mr. Redgauntlet, and the medium of conducting the intercourse betwixt them.'

'Pardon me, sir,' replied Alan Fairford; 'I do not aspire to the honour of being reputed their
confidant or go-between. My concern with those gentlemen is limited to one matter of business,
dearly interesting to me, because it concerns the safety--perhaps the life--of my dearest friend.'

'Would you have any objection to entrust me with the cause of your journey?' said Father Buonaventure.
'My advice may be of service to you, and my influence with one or both these gentlemen is considerable.'

Fairford hesitated a moment, and, hastily revolving all circumstances, concluded that he might
perhaps receive some advantage from propitiating this personage; while, on the other hand,
he endangered nothing by communicating to him the occasion of his journey. He, therefore, after
stating shortly that he hoped Mr. Buonaventure would render him the same confidence which he
required on his part, gave a short account of Darsie Latimer--of the mystery which hung over
his family--and of the disaster which had befallen him. Finally, of his own resolution to seek
for his friend, and to deliver him, at the peril of his own life.

The Catholic priest, whose manner it seemed to be to avoid all conversation which did not arise
from his own express motion, made no remarks upon what he had heard, but only asked one or
two abrupt questions, where Alan's narrative appeared less clear to him; then rising from his
seat, he took two turns through the apartment, muttering between his teeth, with emphasis,
the word 'madman!' But apparently he was in the habit of keeping all violent emotions under
restraint; for he presently addressed Fairford with the most perfect indifference.

'If,' said he, 'you thought you could do so without breach of confidence, I wish you would
have the goodness to show me the letter of Mr. Maxwell of Summertrees. I desire to look particularly
at the address.'

Seeing no cause to decline this extension of his confidence, Alan, without hesitation, put
the letter into his hand. Having turned it round as old Trumbull and Nanty Ewart had formerly
done, and, like them, having examined the address with much minuteness, he asked whether he
had observed these words, pointing to a pencil-writing upon the under side of the letter. Fairford
answered in the negative, and, looking at the letter, read with surprise, 'CAVE NE LITERAS
BELLEROPHONTIS ADFERRES'; a caution which coincided so exactly with the provost's admonition,
that he would do well to inspect the letter of which he was bearer, that he was about to spring
up and attempt an escape, he knew not wherefore, or from whom.

'Sit still, young man,' said the father, with the same tone of authority which reigned in his
whole manner, although mingled with stately courtesy. 'You are in no danger--my character shall
be a pledge for your safety. By whom do you suppose these words have been written?'

Fairford could have answered, 'By Nanty Ewart,' for he remembered seeing that person scribble
something with a pencil, although he was not well enough to observe with accuracy where or
upon what. But not knowing what suspicions, or what worse consequences the seamen's interest
in his affairs might draw upon him, he judged it best to answer that he knew not the hand.

Father Buonaventure was again silent for a moment or two, which he employed in surveying the
letter with the strictest attention; then stepped to the window, as if to examine the address
and writing of the envelope with the assistance of a stronger light, and Alan Fairford beheld
him, with no less amazement than high displeasure, coolly and deliberately break the seal,
open the letter, and peruse the contents.

'Stop, sir, hold!' he exclaimed, so soon as his astonishment permitted him to express his resentment
in words; 'by what right do you dare'--

'Peace, young gentleman,' said the father, repelling him with a wave of his hand; 'be assured
I do not act without warrant--nothing can pass betwixt Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Redgauntlet that
I am not fully entitled to know.'

'It may be so,' said Alan, extremely angry; 'but though you may be these gentlemen's father
confessor, you are not mine; and in breaking the seal of a letter entrusted to my care, you
have done me'--

'No injury, I assure you,' answered the unperturbed priest; 'on the contrary, it may be a service.'

'I desire no advantage at such a rate, or to be obtained in such a manner,' answered Fairford;
'restore me the letter instantly, or'--

'As you regard your own safety,' said the priest, 'forbear all injurious expressions, and all
menacing gestures. I am not one who can be threatened or insulted with impunity; and there
are enough within hearing to chastise any injury or affront offered to me, in case I may think
it unbecoming to protect or avenge myself with my own hand.'

In saying this, the father assumed an air of such fearlessness and calm authority, that the
young lawyer, surprised and overawed, forbore, as he had intended, to snatch the letter from
his hand, and confined himself to bitter complaints of the impropriety of his conduct, and
of the light in which he himself must be placed to Redgauntlet should he present him a letter
with a broken seal.

'That,' said Father Buonaventure, 'shall be fully cared for. I will myself write to Redgauntlet,
and enclose Maxwell's letter, provided always you continue to desire to deliver it, after perusing
the contents.'

He then restored the letter to Fairford, and, observing that he hesitated to peruse it, said
emphatically, 'Read it, for it concerns you.'

This recommendation, joined to what Provost Crosbie had formerly recommended, and to the warning
which he doubted not that Nanty intended to convey by his classical allusion, decided Fairford's
resolution. 'If these correspondents,' he thought, 'are conspiring against my person, I have
a right to counterplot them; self-preservation, as well as my friend's safety, require that
I should not be too scrupulous.'

So thinking, he read the letter, which was in the following words:--

'DEAR RUGGED AND DANGEROUS, 'Will you never cease meriting your old nick-name? You have springed
your dottrel, I find, and what is the consequence?--why, that there will be hue and cry after
you presently. The bearer is a pert young lawyer, who has brought a formal complaint against
you, which, luckily, he has preferred in a friendly court. Yet, favourable as the judge was
disposed to be, it was with the utmost difficulty that cousin Jenny and I could keep him to
his tackle. He begins to be timid, suspicious, and untractable, and I fear Jenny will soon
bend her brows on him in vain. I know not what to advise--the lad who carries this is a good
lad--active for his friend--and I have pledged my honour he shall have no personal ill-usage.
Pledged my honour, remark these words, and remember I can be rugged and dangerous as well,
as my neighbours. But I have not ensured him against a short captivity, and as he is a stirring
active fellow, I see no remedy but keeping him out of the way till this business of the good
Father B---- is safely blown over, which God send it were!--Always thine, even should I be
once more CRAIG-IN-PERIL.'

'What think you, young man, of the danger you have been about to encounter so willingly?'

'As strangely,' replied Alan Fairford, 'as of the extraordinary means which you have been at
present pleased to use for the discovery of Mr. Maxwell's purpose.

'Trouble not yourself to account for my conduct,' said the father; 'I have a warrant for what
I do, and fear no responsibility. But tell me what is your present purpose.'

'I should not perhaps name it to you, whose own safety may be implicated.'

'I understand you,' answered the father; 'you would appeal to the existing government? That
can at no rate be permitted--we will rather detain you at Fairladies by compulsion.'

'You will probably,' said Fairford, 'first weigh the risk of such a proceeding in a free country.'

'I have incurred more formidable hazard,' said the priest, smiling; 'yet I am willing to find
a milder expedient. Come; let us bring the matter to a compromise.' And he assumed a conciliating
graciousness of manner, which struck Fairford as being rather too condescending for the occasion;
'I presume you will be satisfied to remain here in seclusion for a day or two longer, provided
I pass my solemn word to you that you shall meet with the person whom you seek after--meet
with him in perfect safety, and, I trust, in good health, and be afterwards both at liberty
to return to Scotland, or dispose of yourselves as each of you may be minded?'

'I respect the VERBUM SACERDOTIS as much as can reasonably be expected from a Protestant,'
answered Fairford; 'but methinks, you can scarce expect me to repose so much confidence in
the word of an unknown person as is implied in the guarantee which you offer me.'

'I am not accustomed, sir,' said the father, in a very haughty tone, 'to have my word disputed.
But,' he added, while the angry hue passed from his cheek, after a moment's reflection, 'you
know me not, and ought to be excused. I will repose more confidence in your honour than you
seem willing to rest upon mine; and, since we are so situated that one must rely upon the other's
faith, I will cause you to be set presently at liberty, and furnished with the means of delivering
your letter as addressed, provided that now, knowing the contents, you think it safe for yourself
to execute the commission.'

Alan Fairford paused. 'I cannot see,' he at length replied, 'how I can proceed with respect
to the accomplishment of my sole purpose, which is the liberation of my friend, without appealing
to the law and obtaining the assistance of a magistrate. If I present this singular letter
of Mr. Maxwell, with the contents of which I have become so unexpectedly acquainted, I shall
only share his captivity.'

'And if you apply to a magistrate, young man, you will bring ruin on these hospitable ladies,
to whom, in all human probability, you owe your life. You cannot obtain a warrant for your
purpose, without giving a clear detail of all the late scenes through which you have passed.
A magistrate would oblige you to give a complete account of yourself, before arming you with
his authority against a third party; and in giving such an account, the safety of these ladies
will necessarily be compromised. A hundred spies have had, and still have, their eyes upon
this mansion; but God will protect his own.'--He crossed himself devoutly, and then proceeded,--'You
can take an hour to think of your best plan, and I will pledge myself to forward it thus far,
provided it be not asking you to rely more on my word than your prudence can warrant. You shall
go to Redgauntlet,--I name him plainly, to show my confidence in you,--and you shall deliver
him this letter of Mr. Maxwell's, with one from me, in which I will enjoin him to set your
friend at liberty, or at least to make no attempts upon your own person, either by detention
or otherwise. If you can trust me thus far,' he said, with a proud emphasis on the words 'I
will on my side see you depart from this place with the most perfect confidence that you will
not return armed with powers to drag its inmates to destruction. You are young and inexperienced--bred
to a profession also which sharpens suspicion, and gives false views of human nature. I have
seen much of the world, and have known better than most men how far mutual confidence is requisite
in managing affairs of consequence.'

He spoke with an air of superiority, even of authority, by which Fairford, notwithstanding
his own internal struggles, was silenced and overawed so much, that it was not till the father
had turned to leave the apartment that he found words to ask him what the consequences would
be, should he decline to depart on the terms proposed.

'You must then, for the safety of all parties, remain for some days an inhabitant of Fairladies,
where we have the means of detaining you, which self-preservation will in that case compel
us to make use of. Your captivity will be short; for matters cannot long remain as they are.
The cloud must soon rise, or it must sink upon us for ever. BENEDICITE!'

With these words he left the apartment.

Fairford, upon his departure, felt himself much at a loss what course to pursue. His line of
education, as well as his father's tenets in matters of church and state, had taught him a
holy horror for Papists, and a devout belief in whatever had been said of the Punic faith of
Jesuits, and of the expedients of mental reservation by which the Catholic priests in general
were supposed to evade keeping faith with heretics. Yet there was something of majesty, depressed
indeed and overclouded, but still grand and imposing, in the manner and words of Father Buonaventure,
which it was difficult to reconcile with those preconceived opinions which imputed subtlety
and fraud to his sect and order. Above all, Alan was aware that if he accepted not his freedom
upon the terms offered him, he was likely to be detained by force; so that, in every point
of view, he was a gainer by accepting them.

A qualm, indeed, came across him, when he considered, as a lawyer, that this father was probably,
in the eye of law, a traitor; and that there was an ugly crime on the Statute Book, called
misprision of treason. On the other hand, whatever he might think or suspect, he could not
take upon him to say that the man was a priest, whom he had never seen in the dress of his
order, or in the act of celebrating mass; so that he felt himself at liberty to doubt of that
respecting which he possessed no legal proof. He therefore arrived at the conclusion, that
he would do well to accept his liberty, and proceed to Redgauntlet under the guarantee of Father
Buonaventure, which he scarce doubted would be sufficient to save him from personal inconvenience.
Should he once obtain speech of that gentleman, he felt the same confidence as formerly, that
he might be able to convince him of the rashness of his conduct, should he not consent to liberate
Darsie Latimer. At all events, he should learn where his friend was, and how circumstanced.

Having thus made up his mind, Alan waited anxiously for the expiration of the hour which had
been allowed him for deliberation. He was not kept on the tenter-hooks of impatience an instant
longer than the appointed moment arrived, for, even as the clock struck, Ambrose appeared at
the door of the gallery, and made a sign that Alan should follow him. He did so, and after
passing through some of the intricate avenues common in old houses, was ushered into a small
apartment, commodiously fitted up, in which he found Father Buonaventure reclining on a couch,
in the attitude of a man exhausted by fatigue or indisposition. On a small table beside him,
a silver embossed salver sustained a Catholic book of prayer, a small flask of medicine, a
cordial, and a little tea-cup of old china. Ambrose did not enter the room--he only bowed profoundly,
and closed the door with the least possible noise, so soon as Fairford had entered.

'Sit down, young man,' said the father, with the same air of condescension which had before
surprised, and rather offended Fairford. 'You have been ill, and I know too well by my own
case that indisposition requires indulgence. Have you,' he continued, so soon as he saw him
seated, 'resolved to remain, or to depart?'

'To depart,' said Alan, 'under the agreement that you will guarantee my safety with the extraordinary
person who has conducted himself in such a lawless manner toward my friend, Darsie Latimer.'

'Do not judge hastily, young man,' replied the father. 'Redgauntlet has the claims of a guardian
over his ward, in respect to the young gentleman, and a right to dictate his place of residence,
although he may have been injudicious in selecting the means by which he thinks to enforce
his authority.'

'His situation as an attainted person abrogates such rights,' said Fairford, hastily.

'Surely,' replied the priest, smiling at the young lawyer's readiness; 'in the eye of those
who acknowledge the justice of the attainder--but that do not I. However, sir, here is the
guarantee--look at its contents, and do not again carry the letters of Uriah.'

Fairford read these words:--

'GOOD FRIEND, 'We send you hither a young man desirous to know the situation of your ward,
since he came under your paternal authority, and hopeful of dealing with you for having your
relative put at large. This we recommend to your prudence, highly disapproving, at the same
time, of any force or coercion when such can be avoided, and wishing, therefore, that the bearer's
negotiation may be successful. At all rates, however, the bearer hath our pledged word for
his safety and freedom, which, therefore, you are to see strictly observed, as you value our
honour and your own. We further wish to converse with you, with as small loss of time as may
be, having matters of the utmost confidence to impart. For this purpose we desire you to repair
hither with all haste, and thereupon we bid you heartily farewell. P. B.'

'You will understand, sir,' said the father, when he saw that Alan had perused his letter,
'that, by accepting charge of this missive, you bind yourself to try the effect of it before
having recourse to any legal means, as you term them, for your friend's release.'

'There are a few ciphers added to this letter,' said Fairford, when he had perused the paper
attentively,--'may I inquire what their import is?'

'They respect my own affairs,' answered the father, briefly; 'and have no concern whatever
with yours.'

'It seems to me, however,' replied Alan, 'natural to suppose'--

'Nothing must be supposed incompatible with my honour,' replied the priest, interrupting him;
'when such as I am confer favours, we expect that they shall be accepted with gratitude, or
declined with thankful respect--not questioned or discussed.'

'I will accept your letter, then,' said Fairford, after a minute's consideration, 'and the
thanks you expect shall be most liberally paid, if the result answer what you teach me to expect.'

'God only commands the issue,' said Father Buonaventure. 'Man uses means. You understand that,
by accepting this commission, you engage yourself in honour to try the effect of my letter
upon Mr. Redgauntlet, before you have recourse to informations or legal warrants?'

'I hold myself bound, as a man of good faith and honour, to do so,' said Fairford.

'Well, I trust you,' said the father. 'I will now tell you that an express, dispatched by me
last night, has, I hear, brought Redgauntlet to a spot many miles nearer this place, where
he will not find it safe to attempt any violence on your friend, should he be rash enough to
follow the advice of Mr. Maxwell of Summertrees rather than my commands. We now understand
each other.'

He extended his hand towards Alan, who was about to pledge his faith in the usual form by grasping
it with his own, when the father drew back hastily. Ere Alan had time to comment upon this
repulse, a small side-door, covered with tapestry, was opened; the hangings were drawn aside,
and a lady, as if by sudden apparition, glided into the apartment. It was neither of the Misses
Arthuret, but a woman in the prime of life, and in the full-blown expansion of female beauty,
tall, fair, and commanding in her aspect. Her locks, of paly gold, were taught to fall over
a brow, which, with the stately glance of the large, open, blue eyes, might have become Juno
herself; her neck and bosom were admirably formed, and of a dazzling whiteness. She was rather
inclined to EMBONPOINT, but not more than became her age, of apparently thirty years. Her step
was that of a queen, but it was of Queen Vashti, not Queen Esther--the bold and commanding,
not the retiring beauty.

Father Buonaventure raised himself on the couch, angrily, as if displeased by this intrusion.
'How now, madam,' he said, with some sternness; 'why have we the honour of your company?'

'Because it is my pleasure,' answered the lady, composedly.

'Your pleasure, madam!' he repeated in the same angry tone.

'My pleasure, sir,' she continued, 'which always keeps exact pace with my duty. I had heard
you were unwell--let me hope it is only business which produces this seclusion.'

'I am well,' he replied; 'perfectly well, and I thank you for your care--but we are not alone,
and this young man'--

'That young man?' she said, bending her large and serious eye on Alan Fairford, as if she had
been for the first time aware of his presence,--'may I ask who he is?'

'Another time, madam; you shall learn his history after he is gone. His presence renders it
impossible for me to explain further.'

'After he is gone may be too late,' said the lady; 'and what is his presence to me, when your
safety is at stake? He is the heretic lawyer whom those silly fools, the Arthurets, admitted
into this house at a time when they should have let their own father knock at the door in vain,
though the night had been a wild one. You will not surely dismiss him?'

'Your own impatience can alone make that step perilous,' said the father; 'I have resolved
to take it--do not let your indiscreet zeal, however excellent its motive, add any unnecessary
risk to the transaction.'

'Even so?' said the lady, in a tone of reproach, yet mingled with respect and apprehension.
'And thus you will still go forward, like a stag upon the hunter's snares, with undoubting
confidence, after all that has happened?'

'Peace, madam,' said Father Buonaventure, rising up; 'be silent, or quit the apartment; my
designs do not admit of female criticism.'

To this peremptory command the lady seemed about to make a sharp reply; but she checked herself,
and pressing her lips strongly together, as if to secure the words from bursting from them
which were already formed upon her tongue, she made a deep reverence, partly as it seemed in
reproach, partly in respect, and left the room as suddenly as she had entered it.

The father looked disturbed at this incident, which he seemed sensible could not but fill Fairford's
imagination with an additional throng of bewildering suspicions; he bit his lip and muttered
something to himself as he walked through the apartment; then suddenly turned to his visitor
with a smile of much sweetness, and a countenance in which every rougher expression was exchanged
for those of courtesy and kindness.

'The visit we have been just honoured with, my young friend, has given you,' he said, 'more
secrets to keep than I would have wished you burdened with. The lady is a person of condition--of
rank and fortune--but nevertheless is so circumstanced that the mere fact of her being known
to be in this country would occasion many evils. I should wish you to observe secrecy on this
subject, even to Redgauntlet or Maxwell, however much I trust them in all that concerns my
own affairs.'

'I can have no occasion,' replied Fairford, 'for holding any discussion with these gentlemen,
or with any others, on the circumstance which I have just witnessed--it could only have become
the subject of my conversation by mere accident, and I will now take care to avoid the subject
entirely.'

'You will do well, sir, and I thank you,' said the father, throwing much dignity into the expression
of obligation which he meant to convey. 'The time may perhaps come when you will learn what
it is to have obliged one of my condition. As to the lady, she has the highest merit, and nothing
can be said of her justly which would not redound to her praise. Nevertheless--in short, sir,
we wander at present as in a morning mist--the sun will, I trust, soon rise and dispel it,
when all that now seems mysterious will be fully revealed--or it will sink into rain,' he added,
in a solemn tone, 'and then explanation will be of little consequence.--Adieu, sir; I wish
you well.'

He made a graceful obeisance, and vanished through the same side-door by which the lady had
entered; and Alan thought he heard their voices high in dispute in the adjoining apartment.

Presently afterwards, Ambrose entered, and told him that a horse and guide waited him beneath
the terrace.

'The good Father Buonaventure,' added the butler, 'has been graciously pleased to consider
your situation, and desired me to inquire whether you have any occasion for a supply of money?'

'Make my respects to his reverence,' answered Fairford, 'and assure him I am provided in that
particular. I beg you also to make my acknowledgements to the Misses Arthuret, and assure them
that their kind hospitality, to which I probably owe my life, shall be remembered with gratitude
as long as that life lasts. You yourself, Mr. Ambrose, must accept of my kindest thanks for
your skill and attention.'

Mid these acknowledgements they left the house, descended the terrace, and reached the spot
where the gardener, Fairford's old acquaintance, waited for him, mounted upon one horse and
leading another.

Bidding adieu to Ambrose, our young lawyer mounted, and rode down the avenue, often looking
back to the melancholy and neglected dwelling in which he had witnessed such strange scenes,
and musing upon the character of its mysterious inmates, especially the noble and almost regal-seeming
priest, and the beautiful but capricious dame, who, if she was really Father Buonaventure's
penitent, seemed less docile to the authority of the church than, as Alan conceived, the Catholic
discipline permitted. He could not indeed help being sensible that the whole deportment of
these persons differed much from his preconceived notions of a priest and devotee. Father Buonaventure,
in particular, had more natural dignify and less art and affectation in his manner, than accorded
with the idea which Calvinists were taught to entertain of that wily and formidable person,
a Jesuitical missionary.

While reflecting on these things, he looked back so frequently at the house, that Dick Gardener,
a forward, talkative fellow, who began to tire of silence, at length said to him, 'I think
you will know Fairladies when you see it again, sir?'

'I dare say I shall, Richard,' answered Fairford good-humouredly. 'I wish I knew as well where
I am to go next. But you can tell me, perhaps?'

'Your worship should know better than I,' said Dick Gardener; 'nevertheless, I have a notion
you are going where all you Scotsmen should be sent, whether you will or no.'

'Not to the devil, I hope, good Dick?' said Fairford.

'Why, no. That is a road which you may travel as heretics; but as Scotsmen, I would only send
you three-fourths of the way--and that is back to Scotland again--always craving your honour's
pardon.'

'Does our journey lie that way?' said Fairford.

'As far as the waterside,' said Richard. 'I am to carry you to old Father Crackenthorp's, and
then you are within a spit and a stride of Scotland, as the saying is. But mayhap you may think
twice of going thither, for all that; for Old England is fat feeding-ground for north-country
cattle.'

CHAPTER XVII

NARRATIVE OF DARSIE LATIMER

Our history must now, as the old romancers wont to say, 'leave to tell' of the quest of Alan
Fairford, and instruct our readers of the adventures which befell Darsie Latimer, left as he
was in the precarious custody of his self-named tutor, the Laird of the Lochs of Solway, to
whose arbitrary pleasure he found it necessary for the present to conform himself.

In consequence of this prudent resolution, and although he did not assume such a disguise without
some sensations of shame and degradation, Darsie permitted Cristal Nixon to place over his
face, and secure by a string, one of those silk masks which ladies frequently wore to preserve
their complexions, when exposed to the air during long journeys on horseback. He remonstrated
somewhat more vehemently against the long riding-skirt, which converted his person from the
waist into the female guise, but was obliged to concede this point also.

The metamorphosis was then complete; for the fair reader must be informed, that in those rude
times, the ladies, when they honoured the masculine dress by assuming any part of it, wore
just such hats, coats, and waistcoats as the male animals themselves made use of, and had no
notion of the elegant compromise betwixt male and female attire, which has now acquired, PAR
EXCELLENCE, the name of a HABIT. Trolloping things our mothers must have looked, with long
square-cut coats, lacking collars, and with waistcoats plentifully supplied with a length of
pocket, which hung far downwards from the middle. But then they had some advantage from the
splendid colours, lace, and gay embroidery which masculine attire then exhibited; and, as happens
in many similar instances, the finery of the materials made amends for the want of symmetry
and grace of form in the garments themselves. But this is a digression.

In the court of the old mansion, half manor-place, half farm-house, or rather a decayed manor-house,
converted into an abode for a Cumberland tenant, stood several saddled horses. Four or five
of them were mounted by servants or inferior retainers, all of whom were well armed with sword,
pistol, and carabine. But two had riding furniture for the use of females--the one being accoutred
with a side-saddle, the other with a pillion attached to the saddle.

Darsie's heart beat quicker within him; he easily comprehended that one of these was intended
for his own use; and his hopes suggested that the other was designed for that of the fair Green
Mantle, whom, according to his established practice, he had adopted for the queen of his affections,
although his opportunities of holding communication with her had not exceeded the length of
a silent supper on one occasion, and the going down a country-dance on another. This, however,
was no unwonted mood of passion with Darsie Latimer, upon whom Cupid was used to triumph only
in the degree of a Mahratta conqueror, who overruns a province with the rapidity of lightning,
but finds it impossible to retain it beyond a very brief space. Yet this new love was rather
more serious than the scarce skinned-up wounds which his friend Fairford used to ridicule.
The damsel had shown a sincere interest in his behalf; and the air of mystery with which that
interest was veiled, gave her, to his lively imagination, the character of a benevolent and
protecting spirit, as much as that of a beautiful female.

At former times, the romance attending his short-lived attachments had been of his own creating,
and had disappeared as soon as ever he approached more closely to the object with which he
had invested it. On the present occasion, it really flowed from external circumstances, which
might have interested less susceptible feelings, and an imagination less lively than that of
Darsie Latimer, young, inexperienced, and enthusiastic as he was.

He watched, therefore, anxiously to whose service the palfrey bearing the lady's saddle was
destined. But ere any female appeared to occupy it, he was himself summoned to take his seat
on the pillion behind Cristal Nixon, amid the grins of his old acquaintance Jan who helped
him to horse, and the unrestrained laughter of Cicely, who displayed on the occasion a case
of teeth which might have rivalled ivory.

Latimer was at an age when being an object of general ridicule even to clowns and milkmaids
was not a matter of indifference, and he longed heartily to have laid his horse-whip across
Jan's shoulders. That, however, was a solacement of his feelings which was not at the moment
to be thought of; and Cristal Nixon presently put an end to his unpleasant situation, by ordering
the riders to go on. He himself kept the centre of the troop, two men riding before and two
behind him, always, as it seemed to Darsie, having their eye upon him, to prevent any attempt
to escape. He could see from time to time, when the straight line of the road, or the advantage
of an ascent permitted him, that another troop of three or four riders followed them at about
a quarter of a mile's distance, amongst whom he could discover the tall form of Redgauntlet,
and the powerful action of his gallant black horse. He had little doubt that Green Mantle made
one of the party, though he was unable to distinguish her from the others.

In this manner they travelled from six in the morning until nearly ten of the clock, without
Darsie exchanging a word with any one; for he loathed the very idea of entering into conversation
with Cristal Nixon, against whom he seemed to feel an instinctive aversion; nor was that domestic's
saturnine and sullen disposition such as to have encouraged advances, had he thought of making
them.

At length the party halted for the purpose of refreshment; but as they had hitherto avoided
all villages and inhabited places upon their route, so they now stopped at one of those large
ruinous Dutch barns, which are sometimes found in the fields, at a distance from the farm-houses
to which they belong. Yet in this desolate place some preparations had been made for their
reception. There were in the end of the barn racks filled with provender for the horses, and
plenty of provisions for the party were drawn from the trusses of straw, under which the baskets
that contained them had been deposited. The choicest of these were selected and arranged apart
by Cristal Nixon, while the men of the party threw themselves upon the rest, which he abandoned
to their discretion. In a few minutes afterwards the rearward party arrived and dismounted,
and Redgauntlet himself entered the barn with the green-mantled maiden by his side. He presented
her to Darsie with these words:--

'It is time you two should know each other better. I promised you my confidence, Darsie, and
the time is come for reposing it. But first we will have our breakfast; and then, when once
more in the saddle, I will tell you that which it is necessary that you should know. Salute
Lilias, Darsie.'

The command was sudden, and surprised Latimer, whose confusion was increased by the perfect
ease and frankness with which Lilias offered at once her cheek and her hand, and pressing his
as she rather took it than gave her own, said very frankly, 'Dearest Darsie, how rejoiced I
am that our uncle has at last permitted us to become acquainted!'

Darsie's head turned round; and it was perhaps well that Redgauntlet called on him to sit down,
as even that movement served to hide his confusion. There is an old song which says--

  --when ladies are willing,
  A man can but look like a fool;

And on the same principle Darsie Latimer's looks at this unexpected frankness of reception,
would have formed an admirable vignette for illustrating the passage. 'Dearest Darsie,' and
such a ready, nay, eager salute of lip and hand! It was all very gracious, no doubt--and ought
to have been received with much gratitude; but, constituted as our friend's temper was, nothing
could be more inconsistent with his tone of feeling. If a hermit had proposed to him to club
for a pot of beer, the illusion of his reverend sanctity could not have been dispelled more
effectually than the divine qualities of Green Mantle faded upon the ill-imagined frank-heartedness
of poor Lilias. Vexed with her forwardness, and affronted at having once more cheated himself,
Darsie could hardly help muttering two lines of the song we have already quoted:

  The fruit that must fall without shaking
  Is rather too mellow for me.

And yet it was pity for her too--she was a very pretty young woman--his fancy had scarcely
overrated her in that respect--and the slight derangement of the beautiful brown locks which
escaped in natural ringlets from under her riding-hat, with the bloom which exercise had brought
into her cheek, made her even more than usually fascinating. Redgauntlet modified the sternness
of his look when it was turned towards her, and in addressing her, used a softer tone than
his usual deep bass. Even the grim features of Cristal Nixon relaxed when he attended on her,
and it was then, if ever, that his misanthropical visage expressed some sympathy with the rest
of humanity.

'How can she,' thought Latimer, 'look so like an angel, yet be so mere a mortal after all?
How could so much seeming modesty have so much forwardness of manner, when she ought to have
been most reserved? How can her conduct be reconciled to the grace and ease of her general
deportment?'

The confusion of thoughts which occupied Darsie's imagination, gave to his looks a disordered
appearance, and his inattention to the food which was placed before him, together with his
silence and absence of mind, induced Lilias solicitously to inquire, whether he did not feel
some return of the disorder under which he had suffered so lately. This led Mr. Redgauntlet,
who seemed also lost in his own contemplations, to raise his eyes, and join in the same inquiry
with some appearance of interest. Latimer explained to both that he was perfectly well.

'It is well it is so,' answered Redgauntlet; 'for we have that before us which will brook no
delay from indisposition--we have not, as Hotspur says, leisure to be sick.'

Lilias, on her part, endeavoured to prevail upon Darsie to partake of the food which she offered
him, with a kindly and affectionate courtesy corresponding to the warmth of the interest she
had displayed at their meeting; but so very natural, innocent, and pure in its character, that
it would have been impossible for the vainest coxcomb to have mistaken it for coquetry, or
a desire of captivating a prize so valuable as his affection. Darsie, with no more than the
reasonable share of self-opinion common to most youths when they approach twenty-one, knew
not how to explain her conduct.

Sometimes he was tempted to think that his own merits had, even during the short intervals
when they had seen each other, secured such a hold of the affections of a young person who
had probably been bred up in ignorance of the world and its forms that she was unable to conceal
her partiality. Sometimes he suspected that she acted by her guardian's order, who, aware that
he, Darsie, was entitled to a considerable fortune, might have taken this bold stroke to bring
about a marriage betwixt him and so near a relative.

But neither of these suppositions was applicable to the character of the parties. Miss Lilias's
manners, however soft and natural, displayed in their ease and versatility considerable acquaintance
with the habits of the world, and in the few words she said during the morning repast, there
were mingled a shrewdness and good sense, which could scarce belong to a miss capable of playing
the silly part of a love-smitten maiden so broadly. As for Redgauntlet, with his stately bearing,
his fatal frown, his eye of threat and of command, it was impossible, Darsie thought, to suspect
him of a scheme having private advantage for its object; he could as soon have imagined Cassius
picking Caesar's pocket, instead of drawing his poniard on the dictator.

While he thus mused, unable either to eat, drink, or answer to the courtesy of Lilias, she
soon ceased to speak to him, and sat silent as himself.

They had remained nearly an hour in their halting-place, when Redgauntlet said aloud, 'Look
out, Cristal Nixon. If we hear nothing from Fairladies, we must continue our journey.'

Cristal went to the door, and presently returned and said to his master, in a voice as harsh
as his features, 'Gilbert Gregson is coming, his horse as white with foam as if a fiend had
ridden him.'

Redgauntlet threw from him the plate on which he had been eating, and hastened towards the
door of the barn, which the courier at that moment entered; a smart jockey with a black velvet
hunting-cap, and a broad belt drawn tight round his waist, to which was secured his express-bag.
The variety of mud with which he was splashed from cap to spur showed he had had a rough and
rapid ride. He delivered a letter to Mr. Redgauntlet, with an obeisance, and then retired to
the end of the barn, where the other attendants were sitting or lying upon the straw, in order
to get some refreshment.

Redgauntlet broke the letter open with haste, and read it with anxious and discomposed looks.
On a second perusal, his displeasure seemed to increase, his brow darkened, and was distinctly
marked with the fatal sign peculiar to his family and house. Darsie had never before observed
his frown bear such a close resemblance to the shape which tradition assigned it.

Redgauntlet held out the open letter with one hand, and struck it with the forefinger of the
other, as, in a suppressed and displeased tone, he said to Cristal Nixon, 'Countermanded--ordered
northward once more! 'Northward, when all our hopes lie to the south--a second Derby direction,
when we turned our back on glory, and marched in quest of ruin!'

Cristal Nixon took the letter and ran it over, then returned it to his master with the cold
observation, 'A female influence predominates.'

'But it shall predominate no longer,' said Redgauntlet; 'it shall wane as ours rises in the
horizon. Meanwhile, I will on before--and you, Cristal, will bring the party to the place assigned
in the letter. You may now permit the young persons to have unreserved communication together;
only mark that you watch the young man closely enough to prevent his escape, if he should be
idiot enough to attempt it, but not approaching so close as to watch their free conversation.'

'I care naught about their conversation,' said Nixon, surlily.

'You hear my commands, Lilias,' said the laird, turning to the young lady. 'You may use my
permission and authority to explain so much of our family matters as you yourself know. At
our next meeting I will complete the task of disclosure, and I trust I shall restore one Redgauntlet
more to the bosom of our ancient family. Let Latimer, as he calls himself, have a horse to
himself; he must for some time retain his disguise.--My horse--my horse!'

In two minutes they heard him ride off from the door of the barn, followed at speed by two
of the armed men of his party.

The commands of Cristal Nixon, in the meanwhile, put all the remainder of the party in motion,
but the laird himself was long out of sight ere they were in readiness to resume their journey.
When at length they set out, Darsie was accommodated with a horse and side-saddle, instead
of being obliged to resume his place on the pillion behind the detestable Nixon. He was obliged,
however, to retain his riding-skirt, and to reassume his mask. Yet, notwithstanding this disagreeable
circumstance, and although he observed that they gave him the heaviest and slowest horse of
the party, and that, as a further precaution against escape, he was closely watched on every
side, yet riding in company with the pretty Lilias was an advantage which overbalanced these
inconveniences.

It is true that this society, to which that very morning he would have looked forward as a
glimpse of heaven, had, now that it was thus unexpectedly indulged, something much less rapturous
than he had expected.

It was in vain that, in order to avail himself of a situation so favourable for indulging his
romantic disposition, he endeavoured to coax back, if I may so express myself, that delightful
dream of ardent and tender passion; he felt only such a confusion of ideas at the difference
between the being whom he had imagined, and her with whom he was now in contact, that it seemed
to him like the effect of witchcraft. What most surprised him was, that this sudden flame should
have died away so rapidly, notwithstanding that the maiden's personal beauty was even greater
than he had expected--her demeanour, unless it should be deemed over kind towards himself,
as graceful and becoming as he could have fancied if, even in his gayest dreams. It were judging
hardly of him to suppose that the mere belief of his having attracted her affections more easily
than he expected was the cause of his ungratefully undervaluing a prize too lightly won, or
that his transient passion played around his heart with the hitting radiance of a wintry sunbeam
flashing against an icicle, which may brighten it for a moment, but cannot melt it. Neither
of these was precisely the ease, though such fickleness of disposition might also have some
influence in the change.

The truth is, perhaps, the lover's pleasure, like that of the hunter, is in the chase; and
that the brightest beauty loses half its merit, as the fairest flower its perfume, when the
willing hand can reach it too easily. There must be doubt--there must be danger--there must
be difficulty; and if, as the poet says, the course of ardent affection never does run smooth,
it is perhaps because, without some intervening obstacle, that which is called the romantic
passion of love, in its high poetical character and colouring can hardly have an existence--any
more than there can be a current in a river without the stream being narrowed by steep banks,
or checked by opposing rocks.

Let not those, however, who enter into a union for life without those embarrassments which
delight a Darsie Latimer, or a Lydia Languish, and which are perhaps necessary to excite an
enthusiastic passion in breasts more firm than theirs, augur worse of their future happiness
because their own alliance is formed under calmer auspices. Mutual esteem, an intimate knowledge
of each other's character, seen, as in their case, undisguised by the mists of too partial
passion--a suitable proportion of parties in rank and fortune, in taste and pursuits--are more
frequently found in a marriage of reason, than in a union of romantic attachment; where the
imagination, which probably created the virtues and accomplishments with which it invested
the beloved object, is frequently afterwards employed in magnifying the mortifying consequences
of its own delusion, and exasperating all the stings of disappointment. Those who follow the
banners of Reason are like the well-disciplined battalion, which, wearing a more sober uniform
and making a less dazzling show than the light troops commanded by imagination, enjoy more
safety, and even more honour, in the conflicts of human life. All this, however, is foreign
to our present purpose.

Uncertain in what manner to address her whom he had been lately so anxious to meet with, and
embarrassed by a TETE-A-TETE to which his own timid inexperience, gave some awkwardness, the
party had proceeded more than a hundred yards before Darsie assumed courage to accost, or even
to look at, his companion. Sensible, however, of the impropriety of his silence, he turned
to speak to her; and observing that, although she wore her mask, there was something like disappointment
and dejection in her manner, he was moved by self-reproach for his own coldness, and hastened
to address her in the kindest tone he could assume.

'You must think me cruelly deficient in gratitude, Miss Lilias, that I have been thus long
in your company, without thanking you for the interest which you have deigned to take in my
unfortunate affairs?'

'I am glad you have at length spoken,' she said, 'though I owe it is more coldly than I expected.
MISS Lilias! DEIGN to take interest! In whom, dear Darsie, CAN I take interest but in you;
and why do you put this barrier of ceremony betwixt us, whom adverse circumstances have already
separated for such a length of time?'

Darsie was again confounded at the extra candour, if we may use the term, of this frank avowal.
'One must love partridge very well,' thought he, 'to accept it when thrown in one's face--if
this is not plain speaking, there is no such place as downright Dunstable in being!'

Embarrassed with these reflections, and himself of a nature fancifully, almost fastidiously,
delicate, he could only in reply stammer forth an acknowledgement of his companion's goodness,
and his own gratitude. She answered in a tone partly sorrowful and partly impatient, repeating,
with displeased emphasis, the only distinct words he had been able to bring forth--'Goodness--gratitude!--O
Darsie! should these be the phrases between you and me? Alas! I am too sure you are displeased
with me, though I cannot even guess on what account. Perhaps you think I have been too free
in venturing upon my visit to your friend. But then remember, it was in your behalf, and that
I knew no better way to put you on your guard against the misfortunes and restraint which you
have been subjected to, and are still enduring.'

'Dear Lady'--said Darsie, rallying his recollection, and suspicious of some error in apprehension,--a
suspicion which his mode of address seemed at once to communicate to Lilias, for she interrupted
him,--

'LADY! dear LADY! For whom, or for what, in Heaven's name, do you take me, that you address
me so formally?'

Had the question been asked in that enchanted hall in fairyland, where all interrogations must
be answered with absolute sincerity, Darsie had certainly replied, that he took her for the
most frank-hearted and ultra-liberal lass that had ever lived since Mother Eve eat the pippin
without paring. But as he was still on middle-earth, and free to avail himself of a little
polite deceit, he barely answered that he believed he had the honour of speaking to the niece
of Mr. Redgauntlet.

'Surely,' she replied; 'but were it not as easy for you to have said, to your own only sister?'

Darsie started in his saddle, as if he had received a pistol-shot.

'My sister!' he exclaimed.

'And you did NOT know it, then?' said she. 'I thought your reception of me was cold and indifferent!'

A kind and cordial embrace took place betwixt the relatives; and so light was Darsie's spirit,
that he really felt himself more relieved, by getting quit of the embarrassments of the last
half-hour, during which he conceived himself in danger of being persecuted by the attachment
of a forward girl, than disappointed by the vanishing of so many day-dreams as he had been
in the habit of encouraging during the time when the green-mantled maiden was goddess of his
idolatry. He had been already flung from his romantic Pegasus, and was too happy at length
to find himself with bones unbroken, though with his back on the ground. He was, besides, with
all his whims and follies, a generous, kind-hearted youth, and was delighted to acknowledge
so beautiful and amiable a relative, and to assure her in the warmest terms of his immediate
affection and future protection, so soon as they should be extricated from their present situation.
Smiles and tears mingled on Lilias's cheeks, like showers and sunshine in April weather.

'Out on me,' she said, 'that I should be so childish as to cry at what makes me so sincerely
happy! since, God knows, family-love is what my heart has most longed after, and to which it
has been most a stranger. My uncle says that you and I, Darsie, are but half Redgauntlets,
and that the metal of which our father's family was made, has been softened to effeminacy in
our mother's offspring.'

'Alas!' said Darsie, 'I know so little of our family story, that I almost doubted that I belonged
to the House of Redgauntlet, although the chief of the family himself intimated so much to me.'

'The chief of the family!' said Lilias. 'You must know little of your own descent indeed, if
you mean my uncle by that expression. You yourself, my dear Darsie, are the heir and representative
of our ancient House, for our father was the elder brother--that brave and unhappy Sir Henry
Darsie Redgauntlet, who suffered at Carlisle in the year 1746. He took the name of Darsie,
in conjunction with his own, from our mother, heiress to a Cumberland family of great wealth
and antiquity, of whose large estates you are the undeniable heir, although those of your father
have been involved in the general doom of forfeiture. But all this must be necessarily unknown
to you.'

'Indeed I hear it for the first time in my life,' answered Darsie.

'And you knew not that I was your sister?' said Lilias. 'No wonder you received me so coldly.
What a strange, wild, forward young person you must have thought me--mixing myself in the fortunes
of a stranger whom I had only once spoken to--corresponding with him by signs--Good Heaven!
what can you have supposed me?'

'And how should I have come to the knowledge of our connexion?' said Darsie. 'You are aware
I was not acquainted with it when we danced together at Brokenburn.'

'I saw that with concern, and fain I would have warned you,' answered Lilias; 'but I was closely
watched, and before I could find or make an opportunity of coming to a full explanation with
you on a subject so agitating, I was forced to leave the room. What I did say was, you may
remember, a caution to leave the southern border, for I foresaw what has since happened. But
since my uncle has had you in his power, I never doubted he had communicated to you our whole
family history.'

'He has left me to learn it from you, Lilias; and assure yourself that I will hear it with
more pleasure from your lips than from his. I have no reason to be pleased with his conduct
towards me.'

'Of that,' said Lilias, 'you will judge better when you have heard what I have to tell you;'
and she began her communication in the following manner.

CHAPTER XVIII

NARRATIVE OF DARSIE LATIMER, CONTINUED

'The House of Redgauntlet,' said the young lady, 'has for centuries been supposed to lie under
a doom, which has rendered vain their courage, their talents, their ambition, and their wisdom.
Often making a figure in history, they have been ever in the situation of men striving against
both wind and tide, who distinguish themselves by their desperate exertions of strength, and
their persevering endurance of toil, but without being able to advance themselves upon their
course by either vigour or resolution. They pretend to trace this fatality to a legendary history,
which I may tell you at a less busy moment.'

Darsie intimated that he had already heard the tragic story of Sir Alberick Redgauntlet.

'I need only say, then,' proceeded Lilias, 'that our father and uncle felt the family doom
in its full extent. They were both possessed of considerable property, which was largely increased
by our father's marriage, and were both devoted to the service of the unhappy House of Stuart;
but (as our mother at least supposed) family considerations might have withheld her husband
from joining openly in the affair of 1745, had not the high influence which the younger brother
possessed over the elder, from his more decided energy of character, hurried him along with
himself into that undertaking.

'When, therefore, the enterprise came to the fatal conclusion which bereaved our father of
his life and consigned his brother to exile, Lady Redgauntlet fled from the north of England,
determined to break off all communication with her late husband's family, particularly his
brother, whom she regarded as having, by their insane political enthusiasm, been the means
of his untimely death; and determined that you, my brother, an infant, and that I, to whom
she had just given birth, should be brought up as adherents of the present dynasty. Perhaps
she was too hasty in this determination--too timidly anxious to exclude, if possible, from
the knowledge of the very spot where we existed, a relation so nearly connected with us as
our father's only brother. But you must make allowance for what she had suffered. See, brother,'
she said, pulling her glove off, 'these five blood-specks on my arm are a mark by which mysterious
Nature has impressed, on an unborn infant, a record of its father's violent death and its mother's
miseries.' [Several persons have brought down to these days the impressions which Nature had
thus recorded, when they were yet babes unborn. One lady of quality, whose father was long
under sentence of death previous to the Rebellion, was marked on the back of the neck by the
sign of a broad axe. Another whose kinsmen had been slain in battle and died on the scaffold
to the number of seven, bore a child spattered on the right shoulder and down the arm with
scarlet drops, as if of blood. Many other instances might be quoted.]

'You were not, then, born when my father suffered?' said Darsie.

'Alas, no!' she replied; 'nor were you a twelvemonth old. It was no wonder that my mother,
after going through such scenes of agony, became irresistibly anxious for the sake of her children--of
her son in particular; the more especially as the late Sir Henry, her husband, had, by a settlement
of his affairs, confided the custody of the persons of her children, as well as the estates
which descended to them, independently of those which fell under his forfeiture, to his brother
Hugh, in whom he placed unlimited confidence.'

'But my mother had no reason to fear the operation of such a deed, conceived in favour of an
attainted man,' said Darsie.

'True,' replied Lilias; 'but our uncle's attainder might have been reversed, like that of so
many other persons, and our mother, who both feared and hated him, lived in continual terror
that this would be the case, and that she should see the author, as she thought him, of her
husband's death come armed with legal powers, and in a capacity to use them for the purpose
of tearing her children from her protection. Besides, she feared, even in his incapacitated
condition, the adventurous and pertinacious spirit of her brother-in-law, Hugh Redgauntlet,
and felt assured that he would make some attempt to possess himself of the persons of the children.
On the other hand, our uncle, whose proud disposition might, perhaps, have been soothed by
the offer of her confidence, revolted against the distrustful and suspicious manner in which
Lady Darsie Redgauntlet acted towards him. She basely abused, he said, the unhappy circumstances
in which he was placed, in order to deprive him of his natural privilege of protecting and
educating the infants, whom nature and law, and the will of their father, had committed to
his charge, and he swore solemnly he would not submit to such an injury. Report of his threats
was made to Lady Redgauntlet, and tended to increase those fears which proved but too well
founded. While you and I, children at that time of two or three years old, were playing together
in a walled orchard, adjacent to our mother's residence which she had fixed somewhere in Devonshire,
my uncle suddenly scaled the wall with several men, and I was snatched up; and carried off
to a boat which waited for them. My mother, however, flew to your rescue, and as she seized
on and held you fast, my uncle could not, as he has since told me, possess himself of your
person, without using unmanly violence to his brother's widow. Of this he was incapable; and,
as people began to assemble upon my mother's screaming, he withdrew, after darting upon you
and her one of those fearful looks, which, it is said, remain with our family, as a fatal bequest
of Sir Alberick, our ancestor.'

'I have some recollection of the scuffle which you mention,' said Darsie; 'and I think it was
my uncle himself (since my uncle he is) who recalled the circumstance to my mind on a late
occasion. I can now account for the guarded seclusion under which my poor mother lived--for
her frequent tears, her starts of hysterical alarm, and her constant and deep melancholy. Poor
lady! what a lot was hers, and what must have been her feelings when it approached to a close!'

'It was then that she adopted,' said Lilias, 'every precaution her ingenuity could suggest,
to keep your very existence concealed from the person whom she feared--nay, from yourself;
for she dreaded, as she is said often to have expressed herself, that the wildfire blood of
Redgauntlet would urge you to unite your fortunes to those of your uncle, who was well known
still to carry on political intrigues, which most other persons had considered as desperate.
It was also possible that he, as well as others, might get his pardon, as government showed
every year more lenity towards the remnant of the Jacobites, and then he might claim the custody
of your person, as your legal guardian. Either of these events she considered as the direct
road to your destruction.'

'I wonder she had not claimed the protection of Chancery for me,' said Darsie; 'or confided
me to the care of some powerful friend.'

'She was on indifferent terms with her relations, on account of her marriage with our father,'
said Lilias, 'and trusted more to secreting you from your uncle's attempts, than to any protection
which law might afford against them. Perhaps she judged unwisely, but surely not unnaturally,
for one rendered irritable by so many misfortunes and so many alarms. Samuel Griffiths, an
eminent banker, and a worthy clergyman now dead were, I believe, the only persons whom she
intrusted with the execution of her last will; and my uncle believes that she made them both
swear to observe profound secrecy concerning your birth and pretensions, until you should come
to the age of majority, and, in the meantime, to breed you up in the most private way possible,
and that which was most likely to withdraw you from my uncle's observation.'

'And I have no doubt,' said Darsie, 'that betwixt change of name and habitation, they might
have succeeded perfectly, but for the accident--lucky or unlucky, I know not which to term
it--which brought me to Brokenburn, and into contact with Mr. Redgauntlet. I see also why I
was warned against England, for in England'--

'In England alone, if I understand rightly,' said Miss Redgauntlet, 'the claims of your uncle
to the custody of your person could have been enforced, in case of his being replaced in the
ordinary rights of citizenship, either by the lenity of the government or by some change in
it. In Scotland, where you possess no property, I understand his authority might; have been
resisted, and measures taken to put you under the protection of the law. But, pray, think it
not unlucky that you have taken the step of visiting Brokenburn--I feel confident that the
consequences must be ultimately fortunate, for have they not already brought us into contact
with each other?'

So saying, she held out her hand to her brother, who grasped it with a fondness of pressure
very different from the manner in which they first clasped hands that morning. There was a
moment's pause, while the hearts of both were overflowing with a feeling of natural affection,
to which circumstances had hitherto rendered them strangers.

At length Darsie broke silence; 'I am ashamed,' he said, 'my dearest Lilias, that I have suffered
you to talk so long about matters concerning myself only, while I remain ignorant of your story,
and your present situation.'

'The former is none of the most interesting, nor the latter the most safe or agreeable,' answered
Lilias; 'but now, my dearest brother, I shall have the inestimable support of your countenance
and affection; and were I but sure that we could weather the formidable crisis which I find
so close at hand, I should have little apprehensions for the future.'

'Let me know,' said Darsie, 'what our present situation is; and rely upon my utmost exertions
both in your defence and my own. For what reason can my uncle desire to detain me a prisoner?
If in mere opposition to the will of my mother, she has long been no more; and I see not why
he should wish, at so much trouble and risk, to interfere with the free will of one, to whom
a few months will give a privilege of acting for himself, with which he will have no longer
any pretence to interfere.'

'My dearest Arthur,' answered Lilias--'for that name, as well as Darsie, properly belongs to
you--it is the leading feature in my uncle's character, that he has applied every energy of
his powerful mind to the service of the exiled family of Stuart. The death of his brother,
the dilapidation of his own fortunes, have only added to his hereditary zeal for the House
of Stuart a deep and almost personal hatred against the present reigning family. He is, in
short, a political enthusiast of the most dangerous character, and proceeds in his agency with
as much confidence, as if he felt himself the very Atlas who is alone capable of supporting
a sinking cause.'

'And where or how did you, my Lilias, educated, doubtless, under his auspices, learn to have
a different view of such subjects?'

'By a singular chance,' replied Lilias, 'in the nunnery where my uncle placed me. Although
the abbess was a person exactly after his own heart, my education as a pensioner devolved much
on an excellent old mother who had adopted the tenets of the Jansenists, with perhaps a still
further tendency towards the reformed doctrines, than those of Port Royal. The mysterious secrecy
with which she inculcated these tenets, gave them charms to my young mind, and I embraced them
the rather that they were in direct opposition to the doctrines of the abbess, whom I hated
so much for her severity, that I felt a childish delight in setting her control at defiance,
and contradicting in my secret soul all that I was openly obliged to listen to with reverence.
Freedom of religious opinion brings on, I suppose, freedom of political creed; for I had no
sooner renounced the Pope's infallibility, than I began to question the doctrine of hereditary
and indefeasible right. In short, strange as it may seem, I came out of a Parisian convent,
not indeed an instructed Whig and Protestant, but with as much inclination to be so as if I
had been bred up, like you, within the Presbyterian sound of Saint Giles's chimes.'

'More so, perhaps,' replied Darsie; 'for the nearer the church--the proverb is somewhat musty.
But how did these liberal opinions of yours agree with the very opposite prejudices of my uncle?'

'They would have agreed like fire and water,' answered Lilias, 'had I suffered mine to become
visible; but as that would have subjected me to constant reproach and upbraiding, or worse,
I took great care to keep my own secret; so that occasional censures for coldness, and lack
of zeal for the good cause, were the worst I had to undergo; and these were bad enough.'

'I applaud your caution,' said Darsie.

'You have reason,' replied his sister; 'but I got so terrible a specimen of my uncle's determination
of character, before I had been acquainted with him for much more than a week, that it taught
me at what risk I should contradict his humour. I will tell you the circumstances; for it will
better teach you to appreciate the romantic and resolved nature of his character, than anything
which I could state of his rashness and enthusiasm.

'After I had been many a long year at the convent, I was removed from thence, and placed with
a meagre old Scottish lady of high rank, the daughter of an unfortunate person whose head had
in the year 1715 been placed on Temple Bar. She subsisted on a small pension from the French
Court, aided by an occasional gratuity from the Stuarts; to which the annuity paid for my board
formed a desirable addition. She was not ill-tempered, nor very covetous--neither beat me nor
starved me--but she was so completely trammelled by rank and prejudices, so awfully profound
in genealogy, and so bitterly keen, poor lady, in British, politics, that I sometimes thought
it pity that the Hanoverians, who murdered, as she used to tell me, her poor dear father, had
left his dear daughter in the land of the living. Delighted, therefore, was I, when my uncle
made his appearance, and abruptly announced his purpose of conveying me to England. My extravagant
joy at the idea of leaving Lady Rachel Rougedragon was somewhat qualified by observing the
melancholy look, lofty demeanour, and commanding tone of my near relative. He held more communication
with me on the journey, however, than consisted with his taciturn demeanour in general, and
seemed anxious to ascertain my tone of character, and particularly in point of courage. Now,
though I am a tamed Redgauntlet, yet I have still so much of our family spirit as enables me
to be as composed in danger as most of my sex; and upon two occasions in the course of our
journey--a threatened attack by banditti, and the overturn of our carriage--I had the fortune
so to conduct myself, as to convey to my uncle a very favourable idea of my intrepidity. Probably
this encouraged him to put in execution the singular scheme which he had in agitation.

'Ere we reached London we changed our means of conveyance, and altered the route by which we
approached the city, more than once; then, like a hare which doubles repeatedly at some distance
from the seat she means to occupy, and at last leaps into her form from a distance so great
as she can clear by a spring, we made a forced march, and landed in private and obscure lodgings
in a little old street in Westminster, not far from the Cloisters.

'On the morning of the day on which we arrived my uncle went abroad, and did not return for
some hours. Meantime I had no other amusement than to listen to the tumult of noises which
succeeded each other, or reigned in confusion together during the whole morning. Paris I had
thought the most noisy capital in the world, but Paris seemed midnight silence compared to
London. Cannon thundered near and at a distance--drums, trumpets, and military music of every
kind, rolled, flourished, and pierced the clouds, almost without intermission. To fill up the
concert, bells pealed incessantly from a hundred steeples. The acclamations of an immense multitude
were heard from time to time, like the roaring of a mighty ocean, and all this without my being
able to glean the least idea of what was going on, for the windows of our apartment looked
upon a waste backyard, which seemed totally deserted. My curiosity became extreme, for I was
satisfied, at length, that it must be some festival of the highest order which called forth
these incessant sounds.

'My uncle at length returned, and with him a man of an exterior singularly unprepossessing.
I need not describe him to you, for--do not look round--he rides behind us at this moment.'

'That respectable person, Mr. Cristal Nixon, I suppose?' said Darsie.

'The same,' answered Lilias; 'make no gesture, that may intimate we are speaking of him.'

Darsie signified that he understood her, and she pursued her relation.

'They were both in full dress, and my uncle, taking a bundle from Nixon, said to me, "Lilias,
I am come to carry you to see a grand ceremony--put on as hastily as you can the dress you
will find in that parcel, and prepare to attend me." I found a female dress, splendid and elegant,
but somewhat bordering upon the antique fashion. It might be that of England, I thought, and
I went to my apartment full of curiosity, and dressed myself with all speed.

'My uncle surveyed me with attention--"She may pass for one of the flower-girls," he said to
Nixon, who only answered with a nod.

'We left the house together, and such was their knowledge of the lanes, courts, and bypaths,
that though there was the roar of a multitude in the broad streets, those which we traversed
were silent and deserted; and the strollers whom we met, tired of gazing upon gayer figures,
scarcely honoured us with a passing look, although, at any other time, we should, among these
vulgar suburbs, have attracted a troublesome share of observation. We crossed at length a broad
street, where many soldiers were on guard, while others, exhausted with previous duty, were
eating, drinking, smoking, and sleeping beside their piled arms.

'"One day, Nixon," whispered my uncle, "we will make these redcoated gentry stand to their
muskets more watchfully."

'"Or it will be the worse for them," answered his attendant, in a voice as unpleasant as his
physiognomy.

'Unquestioned and unchallenged by any one, we crossed among the guards; and Nixon tapped thrice
at a small postern door in a huge ancient building, which was straight before us. It opened,
and we entered without my perceiving by whom we were admitted. A few dark and narrow passages
at length conveyed us into an immense Gothic hall, the magnificence of which baffles my powers
of description.

'It was illuminated by ten thousand wax lights, whose splendour at first dazzled my eyes, coming
as we did from these dark and secret avenues. But when my sight began to become steady, how
shall I describe what I beheld? Beneath were huge ranges of tables, occupied by princes and
nobles in their robes of state--high officers of the crown, wearing their dresses and badges
of authority--reverend prelates and judges, the sages of the church and law, in their more
sombre, yet not less awful robes--with others whose antique and striking costume announced
their importance, though I could not even guess who they might be. But at length the truth
burst on me at once--it was, and the murmurs around confirmed it, the Coronation Feast. At
a table above the rest, and extending across the upper end of the hall, sat enthroned the youthful
sovereign himself, surrounded by the princes of the blood, and other dignitaries, and receiving
the suit and homage of his subjects. Heralds and pursuivants, blazing in their fantastic yet
splendid armorial habits, and pages of honour, gorgeously arrayed in the garb of other days,
waited upon the princely banqueters. In the galleries with which this spacious hall was surrounded,
shone all, and more than all, that my poor imagination could conceive, of what was brilliant
in riches, or captivating in beauty. Countless rows of ladies, whose diamonds, jewels, and
splendid attire were their least powerful charms, looked down from their lofty seats on the
rich scene beneath, themselves forming a show as dazzling and as beautiful as that of which
they were spectators. Under these galleries, and behind the banqueting tables, were a multitude
of gentlemen, dressed as if to attend a court, but whose garb, although rich enough to have
adorned a royal drawing room, could not distinguish them in such a high scene as this. Amongst
these we wandered for a few minutes, undistinguished and unregarded. I saw several young persons
dressed as I was, so was under no embarrassment from the singularity of my habit, and only
rejoiced, as I hung on my uncle's arm, at the magical splendour of such a scene, and at his
goodness for procuring me the pleasure of beholding it.

'By and by, I perceived that my uncle had acquaintances among those who were under the galleries,
and seemed, like ourselves, to be mere spectators of the solemnity. They recognized each other
with a single word, sometimes only with a grip of the hand-exchanged some private signs, doubtless--and
gradually formed a little group, in the centre of which we were placed.

'"Is it not a grand sight, Lilias?" said my uncle. "All the noble, and all the wise, and all
the wealthy of Britain, are there assembled."

'"It is indeed," said I, "all that my mind could have fancied of regal power and splendour."

'"Girl," he whispered,--and my uncle can make his whispers as terribly emphatic as his thundering
voice or his blighting look--"all that is noble and worthy in this fair land are there assembled--but
it is to bend like slaves and sycophants before the throne of a new usurper."

'I looked at him, and the dark hereditary frown of our unhappy ancestor was black upon his brow.

'"For God's sake," I whispered, "consider where we are."

'"Fear nothing," he said; "we are surrounded by friends." As he proceeded, his strong and muscular
frame shook with suppressed agitation. "See," he said, "yonder bends Norfolk, renegade to his
Catholic.faith; there stoops the Bishop of ----, traitor to the Church of England; and,--shame
of shames! yonder the gigantic form of Errol bows his head before the grandson of his father's
murderer! But a sign shall be seen this night amongst them--MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN, shall
be read on these walls, as distinctly as the spectral handwriting made them visible on those
of Belshazzar!"

'"For God's sake," said I, dreadfully alarmed, "it is impossible you can meditate violence
in such a presence!"

'"None is intended, fool," he answered, "nor can the slightest mischance happen, provided you
will rally your boasted courage, and obey my directions. But do it coolly and quickly, for
there are a hundred lives at stake."

'"Alas! what--can I do?" I asked in the utmost terror.

'"Only be prompt to execute my bidding," said he; "it is but to lift a glove--Here, hold this
in your hand--throw the train of your dress over it, be firm, composed, and ready--or, at all
events, I step forward myself."

'"If there is no violence designed," I said, taking, mechanically, the iron glove he put into
my hand.

'"I could not conceive his meaning; but, in the excited state of mind in which I beheld him,
I was convinced that disobedience on my part would lead to some wild explosion. I felt, from
the emergency of the occasion, a sudden presence of mind, and resolved to do anything that
might avert violence and bloodshed. I was not long held in suspense. A loud flourish of trumpets
and the voice of heralds were mixed with the clatter of horses' hoofs, while a champion, armed
at all points like those I had read of in romances, attended by squires, pages, and the whole
retinue of chivalry, pranced forward, mounted upon a barbed steed. His challenge, in defiance
of all who dared impeach the title of the new sovereign, was recited aloud--once, and again."

'"Rush in at the third sounding," said my uncle to me; "bring me the parader's gage, and leave
mine in lieu of it."

'I could not see how this was to be done, as we were surrounded by people on all sides. But,
at the third sounding of the trumpets, a lane opened as if by word of command, betwixt me and
the champion, and my uncle's voice said, "Now, Lilias, NOW!"

'With a swift and yet steady step, and with a presence of mind for which I have never since
been able to account, I discharged the perilous commission. I was hardly seen, I believe, as
I exchanged the pledges of battle, and in an instant retired. "Nobly done, my girl!" said my
uncle, at whose side I found myself, shrouded as I was before, by the interposition of the
bystanders. "Cover our retreat, gentlemen," he whispered to those around him.

'Room was made for us to approach the wall, which seemed to open, and we were again involved
in the dark passages through which we had formerly passed. In a small anteroom, my uncle stopped,
and hastily muffling me in a mantle which was lying there, we passed the guards--threaded the
labyrinth of empty streets and courts, and reached our retired lodgings without attracting
the least attention.'

'I have often heard,' said Darsie, 'that a female, supposed to be a man in disguise,--and yet,
Lilias, you do not look very masculine,--had taken up the champion's gauntlet at the present
king's coronation, and left in its place a gage of battle, with a paper, offering to accept
the combat, provided a fair field should be allowed for it. I have hitherto considered it as
an idle tale. I little thought how nearly I was interested in the actors of a scene so daring.
How could you have courage to go through with it?' [See Note 9.]

'Had I had leisure for reflection,' answered his sister, 'I should have refused, from a mixture
of principle and of fear. But, like many people who do daring actions, I went on because I
had not time to think of retreating. The matter was little known, and it is said the king had
commanded that it should not be further inquired into;--from prudence, as I suppose, and lenity,
though my uncle chooses to ascribe the forbearance of the Elector of Hanover, as he calls him,
sometimes to pusillanimity, and sometimes to a presumptuous scorn of the faction who opposes
his title.'

'And have your subsequent agencies under this frantic enthusiast,' said Darsie, 'equalled this
in danger?'

'No--nor in importance,' replied Lilias; 'though I have witnessed much of the strange and desperate
machinations, by which, in spite of every obstacle, and in contempt of every danger, he endeavours
to awaken the courage of a broken party. I have traversed, in his company, all England and
Scotland, and have visited the most extraordinary and contrasted scenes; now lodging at the
castles of the proud gentry of Cheshire and Wales, where the retired aristocrats, with opinions
as antiquated as their dwellings and their manners, still continue to nourish Jacobitical principles;
and the next week, perhaps, spent among outlawed smugglers, or Highland banditti. I have known
my uncle often act the part of a hero, and sometimes that of a mere vulgar conspirator, and
turn himself, with the most surprising flexibility, into all sorts of shapes to attract proselytes
to his cause.'

'Which, in the present day,' said Darsie, 'he finds, I presume, no easy task.'

'So difficult,' said Lilias, 'that, I believe, he has, at different times, disgusted with the
total falling away of some friends, and the coldness of others, been almost on the point of
resigning his undertaking. How often I have I known him affect an open brow and a jovial manner,
joining in the games of the gentry, and even in the sports of the common people, in order to
invest himself with a temporary degree of popularity; while, in fact, his heart was bursting
to witness what he called the degeneracy of the times, the decay of activity among the aged,
and the want of zeal in the rising generation. After the day has been spent in the hardest
exercise, he has spent the night in pacing his solitary chamber, bewailing the downfall of
the cause, and wishing for the bullet of Dundee or the axe of Balmerino.'

'A strange delusion,' said Darsie; 'and it is wonderful that it does not yield to the force
of reality.'

'Ah, but,' replied Lilias, 'realities of late have seemed to flatter his hopes. The general
dissatisfaction with the peace--the unpopularity of the minister, which has extended itself
even to the person of his master--the various uproars which have disturbed the peace of the
metropolis, and a general state of disgust and disaffection, which seems to affect the body
of the nation, have given unwonted encouragement to the expiring hopes of the Jacobites, and
induced many, both at the Court of Rome, and, if it can be called so, of the Pretender, to
lend a more favourable ear than they had hitherto done to the insinuations of those who, like
my uncle, hope, when hope is lost to all but themselves. Nay, I really believe that at this
moment they meditate some desperate effort. My uncle has been doing all in his power, of late,
to conciliate the affections of those wild communities that dwell on the Solway, over whom
our family possessed a seignorial interest before the forfeiture, and amongst whom, on the
occasion of 1745, our unhappy father's interest, with his own, raised a considerable body of
men. But they are no longer willing to obey his summons; and, as one apology among others,
they allege your absence as their natural head and leader. This has increased his desire to
obtain possession of your person, and, if he possibly can, to influence your mind, so as to
obtain your authority to his proceedings.'

'That he shall never obtain,' answered Darsie; 'my principles and my prudence alike forbid
such a step. Besides, it would be totally unavailing to his purpose. Whatever these people
may pretend, to evade your uncle's importunities, they cannot, at this time of day, think of
subjecting their necks again to the feudal yoke, which was effectually broken by the act of
1748, abolishing vassalage and hereditary jurisdictions.'

'Aye, but that my uncle considers as the act of a usurping government,' said Lilias.

'Like enough he may think so,' answered her brother, 'for he is a superior, and loses his authority
by, the enactment. But the question is, what the vassals will think of it who have gained their
freedom from feudal slavery, and have now enjoyed that freedom for many years? However, to
cut the matter short, if five hundred men would rise at the wagging of my finger, that finger
shall not be raised in a cause which I disapprove of, and upon that my uncle may reckon.'

'But you may temporize,' said Lilias, upon whom the idea of her uncle's displeasure made evidently
a strong impression,--'you may temporize, as most of the gentry in this country do, and let
the bubble burst of itself; for it is singular how few of them venture to oppose my uncle directly.
I entreat you to avoid direct collision with him. To hear you, the head of the House of Redgauntlet,
declare against the family of Stuart, would either break his heart, or drive him to some act
of desperation.'

'Yes, but, Lilias, you forget that the consequences of such an act of complaisance might be,
that the House of Redgauntlet and I might lose both our heads at one blow.'

'Alas!' said she, 'I had forgotten that danger. I have grown familiar with perilous intrigues,
as the nurses in a pest-house are said to become accustomed to the air around them, till they
forget even that it is noisome.'

'And yet,' said Darsie, 'if I could free myself from him without coming to an open rupture.
Tell me, Lilias, do you think it possible that he can have any immediate attempt in view?'

'To confess the truth,' answered Lilias, 'I cannot doubt that he has. There has been an unusual
bustle among the Jacobites of late. They have hopes, as I told you, from circumstances unconnected
with their own strength. Just before you came to the country, my uncle's desire to find you
out became, if possible, more eager than ever--he talked of men to be presently brought together,
and of your name and influence for raising them. At this very time your first visit to Brokenburn
took place. A suspicion arose in my uncle's mind, that you might be the youth he sought, and
it was strengthened by papers and letters which the rascal Nixon did not hesitate to take from
your pocket. Yet a mistake might have occasioned a fatal explosion; and my uncle therefore
posted to Edinburgh to follow out the clue he had obtained, and fished enough of information
from old Mr. Fairford to make him certain that you were the person he sought. Meanwhile, and
at the expense of some personal and perhaps too bold exertion, I endeavoured, through your
friend young Fairford, to put you on your guard.'

'Without success,' said Darsie, blushing under his mask when he recollected how he had mistaken
his sister's meaning.

'I do not wonder that my warning was fruitless,' said she; 'the thing was doomed to be. Besides,
your escape would have been difficult. You were dogged the whole time you were at the Shepherd's
Bush and at Mount Sharon, by a spy who scarcely ever left you.'

'The wretch, little Benjie!' exclaimed Darsie. 'I will wring the monkey's neck round, the first
time we meet.'

'It was he indeed who gave constant information of your motions to Cristal Nixon,' said Lilias.

'And Cristal Nixon--I owe him, too, a day's work in harvest,' said Darsie; 'for I am mistaken
if he was not the person that struck me down when I was made prisoner among the rioters.'

'Like enough; for he has a head and hand for any villany. My uncle was very angry about it;
for though the riot was made to have an opportunity of carrying you off in the confusion, as
well as to put the fishermen at variance with the public law, it would have been his last thought
to have injured a hair of your head. But Nixon has insinuated himself into all my uncle's secrets,
and some of these are so dark and dangerous, that though there are few things he would not
dare, I doubt if he dare quarrel with him. And yet I know that of Cristal would move my uncle
to pass his sword through his body.'

'What is it, for Heaven's sake?', said Darsie. 'I have a particular desire for wishing to know.'

'The old, brutal desperado, whose face and mind are a libel upon human nature, has had the
insolence to speak to his master's niece as one whom he was at liberty to admire; and when
I turned on him with the anger and contempt he merited, the wretch grumbled out something,
as if he held the destiny of our family in his hand.'

'I thank you, Lilias,' said Darsie, eagerly,--'I thank you with all my heart for this communication.
I have blamed myself as a Christian man for the indescribable longing I felt from the first
moment I saw that rascal, to send a bullet through his head; and now you have perfectly accounted
for and justified this very laudable wish. I wonder my uncle, with the powerful sense you describe
him to be possessed of, does not see through such a villain.'

'I believe he knows him to be capable of much evil,' answered Lilias--'selfish, obdurate, brutal,
and a man-hater. But then he conceives him to possess the qualities most requisite for a conspirator--undaunted
courage, imperturbable coolness and address, and inviolable fidelity. In the last particular
he may be mistaken. I have heard Nixon blamed for the manner in which our poor father was taken
after Culloden.'

'Another reason for my innate aversion,' said Darsie, but I will be on my guard with him.'

'See, he observes us closely,' said Lilias. 'What a thing is conscience! He knows we are now
speaking of him, though he cannot have heard a word that we have said.'

It seemed as if she had guessed truly; for Cristal Nixon at that moment rode up to them, and
said, with an affectation of jocularity, which sat very ill on his sullen features, 'Come,
young ladies, you have had time enough for your chat this morning, and your tongues, I think,
must be tired. We are going to pass a village, and I must beg you to separate--you, Miss Lilias,
to ride a little behind--and you, Mrs., or Miss, or Master, whichever you choose to be called,
to be jogging a little before.'

Lilias checked her horse without speaking, but not until she had given her brother an expressive
look, recommending caution; to which he replied by a signal indicating that he understood and
would comply with her request.

CHAPTER XIX

NARRATTVE OF DARSIE LATIMER, CONTINUED

Left to his solitary meditations, Darsie (for we will still term Sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet
of that Ilk by the name to which the reader is habituated) was surprised not only at the alteration
of his own state and condition, but at the equanimity with which he felt himself disposed to
view all these vicissitudes.

His fever--fit of love had departed like a morning's dream, and left nothing behind but a painful
sense of shame, and a resolution to be more cautious ere he again indulged in such romantic
visions. His station in society was changed from that of a wandering, unowned youth, in whom
none appeared to take an interest excepting the strangers by whom he had been educated, to
the heir of a noble house, possessed of such influence and such property, that it seemed as
if the progress or arrest of important political events were likely to depend upon his resolution.
Even this sudden elevation, the more than fulfilment of those wishes which had haunted him
ever since he was able to form a wish on the subject, was contemplated by Darsie, volatile
as his disposition was, without more than a few thrills of gratified vanity.

It is true, there were circumstances in his present situation to counterbalance such high advantages.
To be a prisoner in the hands of a man so determined as his uncle, was no agreeable consideration,
when he was calculating how he might best dispute his pleasure and refuse to join him in the
perilous enterprise which he seemed to meditate. Outlawed and desperate himself, Darsie could
not doubt that his uncle was surrounded by men capable of anything--that he was restrained
by no personal considerations--and therefore what degree of compulsion he might apply to his
brother's son, or in what manner he might feel at liberty to punish his contumacy, should he
disavow the Jacobite cause, must depend entirely upon the limits of his own conscience; and
who was to answer for the conscience of a heated enthusiast who considers opposition to the
party he has espoused, as treason to the welfare of his country? After a short interval, Cristal
Nixon was pleased to throw some light upon the subject which agitated him.

When that grim satellite rode up without ceremony close to Darsie's side, the latter felt his
very flesh creep with abhorrence, so little was he able to endure his presence, since the story
of Lilias had added to his instinctive hatred of the man.

His voice, too, sounded like that of a screech-owl, as he said, 'So, my young cock of the north,
you now know it all, and no doubt are blessing your uncle for stirring you up to such an honourable
action.'

'I will acquaint my uncle with my sentiments on the subject, before I make them known to any
one else,' said Darsie, scarcely prevailing on his tongue to utter even these few words in
a civil manner.

'Umph,' murmured Cristal betwixt his teeth. 'Close as wax, I see; and perhaps not quite so
pliable. But take care, my pretty youth,' he added, scornfully; 'Hugh Redgauntlet will prove
a rough colt-breaker--he will neither spare whipcord nor spur-rowel, I promise you.'

'I have already said, Mr. Nixon, answered Darsie, 'that I will canvass those matters of which
my sister has informed me, with my uncle himself, and with no other person.'

'Nay, but a word of friendly advice would do you no harm, young master,' replied Nixon. 'Old
Redgauntlet is apter at a blow than a word--likely to bite before he barks--the true man for
giving Scarborough warning, first knock you down, then bid you stand. So, methinks, a little
kind warning as to consequences were not amiss, lest they come upon you unawares.'

'If the warning is really kind, Mr. Nixon,' said the young man, 'I will hear it thankfully;
and indeed, if otherwise, I must listen to it whether I will or no, since I have at present
no choice of company or of conversation.'

'Nay, I have but little to say,' said Nixon, affecting to give to his sullen and dogged manner
the appearance of an honest bluntness; 'I am as little apt to throw away words as any one.
But here is the question--Will you join heart and hand with your uncle, or no?'

'What if I should say Aye?' said Darsie, determined, if possible, to conceal his resolution
from this man.

'Why, then,' said Nixon, somewhat surprised at the readiness of his answer, 'all will go smooth,
of course--you will take share in this noble undertaking, and, when it succeeds, you will exchange
your open helmet for an earl's coronet perhaps.'

'And how if it fails?' said Darsie.

'Thereafter as it may be,' said Nixon; 'they who play at bowls must meet with rubbers.'

'Well, but suppose, then, I have some foolish tenderness for my windpipe, and that when my
uncle proposes the adventure to me I should say No--how then, Mr. Nixon?'

'Why, then, I would have you look to yourself, young master. There are sharp laws in France
against refractory pupils--LETTRES DE CACHET are easily come by when such men as we are concerned
with interest themselves in the matter.'

'But we are not in France,' said poor Darsie, through whose blood ran a cold shivering at the
idea of a French prison.

'A fast-sailing lugger will soon bring you there though, snug stowed under hatches, like a
cask of moonlight.'

'But the French are at peace with us,' said Darsie, 'and would not dare'--

'Why, who would ever hear of you?' interrupted Nixon; 'do you imagine that a foreign court
would call you up for judgement, and put the sentence of imprisonment in the COURRIER DE L'EUROPE,
as they do at the Old Bailey? No, no, young gentleman--the gates of the Bastille, and of Mont
Saint Michel, and the Castle of Vincennes, move on d--d easy hinges when they let folk in--not
the least jar is heard. There are cool cells there for hot heads--as calm, and quiet, and dark,
as you could wish in Bedlam--and the dismissal comes when the carpenter brings the prisoner's
coffin, and not sooner.'

'Well, Mr. Nixon,' said Darsie, affecting a cheerfulness which he was far from feeling, 'mine
is a hard case--a sort of hanging choice, you will allow--since I must either offend our own
government here and run the risk of my life for doing so, or be doomed to the dungeons of another
country, whose laws I have never offended since I have never trod its soil--Tell me what you
would do if you were in my place.

'I'll tell you that when I am there,' said Nixon, and, checking his horse, fell back to the
rear of the little party.

'It is evident,' thought the young man, 'that the villain believes me completely noosed, and
perhaps has the ineffable impudence to suppose that my sister must eventually succeed to the
possessions which have occasioned my loss of freedom, and that his own influence over the destinies
of our unhappy family may secure him possession of the heiress; but he shall perish by my hand
first!--I must now be on the alert to make my escape, if possible, before I am forced on shipboard.
Blind Willie will not, I think, desert me without an effort on my behalf, especially if he
has learned that I am the son of his late unhappy patron. What a change is mine! Whilst I possessed
neither rank nor fortune, I lived safely and unknown, under the protection of the kind and
respectable friends whose hearts Heaven had moved towards me. Now that I am the head of an
honourable house, and that enterprises of the most daring character await my decision, and
retainers and vassals seem ready to rise at my beck, my safety consists chiefly in the attachment
of a blind stroller!'

While he was revolving these things in his mind, and preparing himself for the interview with
his uncle which could not but be a stormy one, he saw Hugh Redgauntlet come riding slowly back
to meet them without any attendants. Cristal Nixon rode up as he approached, and, as they met,
fixed on him a look of inquiry.

'The fool, Crackenthorp,' said Redgauntlet, has let strangers into his house. Some of his smuggling
comrades, I believe; we must ride slowly to give him time to send them packing.'

'Did you see any of your friends?' said Cristal.

'Three, and have letters from many more. They are unanimous on the subject you wot of--and
the point must be conceded to them, or, far as the matter has gone, it will go no further.'

'You will hardly bring the father to stoop to his flock,' said Cristal, with a sneer.

'He must and shall!' answered Redgauntlet, briefly. 'Go to the front, Cristal--I would speak
with my nephew. I trust, Sir Arthur Redgauntlet, you are satisfied with the manner in which
I have discharged my duty to your sister?'

'There can be no fault found to her manners or sentiments,' answered Darsie; 'I am happy in
knowing a relative so amiable.'

'I am glad of it,' answered Mr. Redgauntlet. 'I am no nice judge of women's qualifications,
and my life has been dedicated to one great object; so that since she left France she has had
but little opportunity of improvement. I have subjected her, however, as little as possible
to the inconveniences and privations of my wandering and dangerous life. From time to time
she has resided for weeks and months with families of honour and respectability, and I am glad
that she has, in, your opinion, the manners and behaviour which become her birth.'

Darsie expressed himself perfectly satisfied, and there was a little pause, which Redgauntlet
broke by solemnly addressing his nephew.

'For you, my nephew, I also hoped to have done much. The weakness and timidity of your mother
sequestered you from my care, or it would have been my pride and happiness to have trained
up the son of my unhappy brother in those paths of honour in which our ancestors have always trod.'

'Now comes the storm,' thought Darsie to himself, and began to collect his thoughts, as the
cautious master of a vessel furls his sails and makes his ship snug when he discerns the approaching
squall.

'My mother's conduct in respect to me might be misjudged,' he said, 'but it was founded on
the most anxious affection.'

'Assuredly,' said his uncle, 'and I have no wish to reflect on her memory, though her mistrust
has done so much injury, I will not say to me, but to the cause of my unhappy country. Her
scheme was, I think, to have made you that wretched pettifogging being, which they still continue
to call in derision by the once respectable name of a Scottish Advocate; one of those mongrel
things that must creep to learn the ultimate decision of his causes to the bar of a foreign
court, instead of pleading before the independent and august Parliament of his own native kingdom.'

'I did prosecute the study of law for a year or two, said Darsie, 'but I found I had neither
taste nor talents for the science.'

'And left it with scorn, doubtless,' said Mr. Redgauntlet. 'Well, I now hold up to you, my
dearest nephew, a more worthy object of ambition. Look eastward--do you see a monument standing
on yonder plain, near a hamlet?'

Darsie replied that he did,

'The hamlet is called Burgh-upon-Sands, and yonder monument is erected to the memory of the
tyrant Edward I. The just hand of Providence overtook him on that spot, as he was leading his
bands to complete the subjugation of Scotland whose civil dissensions began under his accursed
policy. The glorious career of Bruce might have been stopped in its outset; the field of Bannockburn
might have remained a bloodless turf, if God had not removed, in the very crisis, the crafty
and bold tyrant who had so long been Scotland's scourge. Edward's grave is the cradle of our
national freedom. It is within sight of that great landmark of our liberty that I have to propose
to you an undertaking, second in honour and importance to none since the immortal Bruce stabbed
the Red Comyn, and grasped with his yet bloody hand the independent crown of Scotland.'

He paused for an answer; but Darsie, overawed by the energy of his manner, and unwilling to
commit himself by a hasty explanation, remained silent.

'I will not suppose,' said Hugh Redgauntlet, after a pause, that you are either so dull as
not to comprehend the import of my words--or so dastardly as to be dismayed by my proposal--or
so utterly degenerate from the blood and sentiments of your ancestors, as not to feel my summons
as the horse hears the war-trumpet.'

'I will not pretend to misunderstand you, sir,' said Darsie; 'but an enterprise directed against
a dynasty now established for three reigns requires strong arguments, both in point of justice
and of expediency, to recommend it to men of conscience and prudence.'

'I will not,' said Redgauntlet, while his eyes sparkled with anger,--'I will not hear you speak
a word against the justice of that enterprise, for which your oppressed country calls with
the voice of a parent, entreating her children for aid--or against that noble revenge which
your father's blood demands from his dishonoured grave. His skull is yet standing over the
Rikargate, [The northern gate of Carlisle was long garnished with the heads of the Scottish
rebels executed in 1746.] and even its bleak and mouldered jaws command you to be a man. I
ask you, in the name of God and of your country, will you draw your sword and go with me to
Carlisle, were it but to lay your father's head, now the perch of the obscene owl and carrion
crow and the scoff of every ribald clown, in consecrated earth as befits his long ancestry?'

Darsie, unprepared to answer an appeal urged with so much passion, and not doubting a direct
refusal would cost him his liberty or life, was again silent.

'I see,' said his uncle, in a more composed tone, 'that it is not deficiency of spirit, but
the grovelling habits of a confined education, among the poor-spirited class you were condemned
to herd with, that keeps you silent. You scarce yet believe yourself a Redgauntlet; your pulse
has not yet learned the genuine throb that answers to the summons of honour and of patriotism.'

'I trust,' replied Darsie, at last, 'that I shall never be found indifferent to the call of
either; but to answer them with effect--even were I convinced that they now sounded in my ear--I
must see some reasonable hope of success in the desperate enterprise in which you would involve
me. I look around me, and I see a settled government--an established authority--a born Briton
on the throne--the very Highland mountaineers, upon whom alone the trust of the exiled family
reposed, assembled into regiments which act under the orders of the existing dynasty. [The
Highland regiments were first employed by the celebrated Earl of Chatham, who assumed to himself
no small degree of praise for having called forth to the support of the country and the government,
the valour which had been too often directed against both.] France has been utterly dismayed
by the tremendous lessons of the last war, and will hardly provoke another. All without and
within the kingdom is adverse to encountering a hopeless struggle, and you alone, sir, seem
willing to undertake a desperate enterprise.'

'And would undertake it were it ten times more desperate; and have agitated it when ten times
the obstacles were interposed. Have I forgot my brother's blood? Can I--dare I even now repeat
the Pater Noster, since my enemies and the murderers remain unforgiven? Is there an art I have
not practised--a privation to which I have not submitted, to bring on the crisis, which I now
behold arrived? Have I not been a vowed and a devoted man, forgoing every comfort of social
life, renouncing even the exercise of devotion unless when I might name in prayer my prince
and country, submitting to everything to make converts to this noble cause? Have I done all
this, and shall I now stop short?' Darsie was about to interrupt him, but he pressed his hand
affectionately upon his shoulder, and enjoining, or rather imploring, silence, 'Peace,' he
said, 'heir of my ancestors' fame--heir of all my hopes and wishes. Peace, son of my slaughtered
brother! I have sought for thee, and mourned for thee, as a mother for an only child. Do not
let me again lose you in the moment when you are restored to my hopes. Believe me, I distrust
so much my own impatient temper, that I entreat you, as the dearest boon, do naught to awaken
it at this crisis.'

Darsie was not sorry to reply that his respect for the person of his relation would induce
him to listen to all which he had to apprise him of, before he formed any definite resolution
upon the weighty subjects of deliberation which he proposed to him.

'Deliberation!' repeated Redgauntlet, impatiently; 'and yet it is not ill said. I wish there
had been more warmth in thy reply, Arthur; but I must recollect, were an eagle bred in a falcon's
mew and hooded like a reclaimed hawk, he could not at first gaze steadily on the sun. Listen
to me, my dearest Arthur. The state of this nation no more implies prosperity, than the florid
colour of a feverish patient is a symptom of health. All is false and hollow. The apparent
success of Chatham's administration has plunged the country deeper in debt than all the barren
acres of Canada are worth, were they as fertile as Yorkshire--the dazzling lustre of the victories
of Minden and Quebec have been dimmed by the disgrace of the hasty peace--by the war, England,
at immense expense, gained nothing but honour, and that she has gratuitously resigned. Many
eyes, formerly cold and indifferent, are now looking towards the line of our ancient and rightful
monarchs, as the only refuge in the approaching storm--the rich are alarmed--the nobles are
disgusted--the populace are inflamed--and a band of patriots, whose measures are more safe
than their numbers are few, have resolved to set up King Charles's standard.'

'But the military,' said Darsie--'how can you, with a body of unarmed and disorderly insurgents,
propose to encounter a regular army. The Highlanders are now totally disarmed.'

'In a great measure, perhaps,' answered Redgauntlet; 'but the policy which raised the Highland
regiments has provided for that. We have already friends in these corps; nor can we doubt for
a moment what their conduct will be when the white cockade is once more mounted. The rest of
the standing army has been greatly reduced since the peace; and we reckon confidently on our
standard being joined by thousands of the disbanded troops.'

'Alas!' said Darsie, 'and is it upon such vague hopes as these, the inconstant humour of a
crowd or of a disbanded soldiery, that men of honour are invited to risk their families, their
property, their life?'

'Men of honour, boy,' said Redgauntlet, his eyes glancing with impatience, 'set life, property,
family, and all at stake, when that honour commands it! We are not now weaker than when seven
men, landing in the wilds of Moidart, shook the throne of the usurper till it tottered--won
two pitched fields, besides overrunning one kingdom and the half of another, and, but for treachery,
would have achieved what their venturous successors are now to attempt in their turn.'

'And will such an attempt be made in serious earnest?' said Darsie. 'Excuse me, my uncle, if
I can scarce believe a fact so extraordinary. Will there really be found men of rank and consequence
sufficient to renew the adventure of 1745?'

'I will not give you my confidence by halves, Sir Arthur,' replied his uncle--'Look at that
scroll--what say you to these names?--Are they not the flower of the western shires--of Wales
of Scotland?'

'The paper contains indeed the names of many that are great and noble,' replied Darsie, after
perusing it; 'but'--

'But what?' asked his uncle, impatiently; 'do you doubt the ability of those nobles and gentlemen
to furnish the aid in men and money at which they are rated?'

'Not their ability certainly,' said Darsie, 'for of that I am no competent judge; but I see
in this scroll the name of Sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet of that Ilk, rated at a hundred men
and upwards--I certainly am ignorant how he is to redeem that pledge.'

'I will be responsible for the men,' replied Hugh Redgauntlet.

'But, my dear uncle,' added Darsie, 'I hope for your sake that the other individuals whose
names are here written, have had more acquaintance with your plan than I have been indulged with.'

'For thee and thine I can be myself responsible,' said Redgauntlet; 'for if thou hast not the
courage to head the force of thy house, the leading shall pass to other hands, and thy inheritance
shall depart from thee like vigour and verdure from a rotten branch. For these honourable persons,
a slight condition there is which they annex to their friendship--something so trifling that
it is scarce worthy of mention. This boon granted to them by him who is most interested, there
is no question they will take the field in the manner there stated.'

Again Darsie perused the paper, and felt himself still less inclined to believe that so many
men of family and fortune were likely to embark in an enterprise so fatal. It seemed as if
some rash plotter had put down at a venture the names of all whom common report tainted with
Jacobitism; or if it was really the act of the individuals named, he suspected that they must
be aware of some mode of excusing themselves from compliance with its purport. It was impossible,
he thought, that Englishmen, of large fortune, who had failed to join Charles when he broke
into England at the head of a victorious army, should have the least thoughts of encouraging
a descent when circumstances were so much less propitious. He therefore concluded the enterprise
would fall to pieces of itself, and that his best way was, in the meantime, to remain silent,
unless the actual approach of a crisis (which might, however, never arrive) should compel him
to give a downright refusal to his uncle's proposition; and if, in the interim, some door for
escape should be opened, he resolved within himself not to omit availing himself of it.

Hugh Redgauntlet watched his nephew's looks for some time, and then, as if arriving from some
other process of reasoning at the same conclusion, he said, 'I have told you, Sir Arthur, that
I do not urge your immediate accession to my proposal; indeed the consequences of a refusal
would be so dreadful to yourself, so destructive to all the hopes which I have nursed, that
I would not risk, by a moment's impatience, the object of my whole life. Yes, Arthur, I have
been a self-denying hermit at one time--at another, the apparent associate of outlaws and desperadoes--at
another, the subordinate agent of men whom I felt in every way my inferiors--not for any selfish
purpose of my own, no, not even to win for myself the renown of being the principal instrument
in restoring my king and freeing my country. My first wish on earth is for that restoration
and that freedom--my next, that my nephew, the representative of my house and of the brother
of my love, may have the advantage and the credit of all my efforts in the good cause. But,'
he added, darting on Darsie one of his withering frowns, 'if Scotland and my father's house
cannot stand and flourish together, then perish the very name of Redgauntlet! perish the son
of my brother, with every recollection of the glories of my family, of the affections of my
youth, rather than my country's cause should be injured in the tithing of a barley-corn! The
spirit of Sir Alberick is alive within me at this moment,' he continued, drawing up his stately
form and sitting erect in his saddle, while he pressed his finger against his forehead; 'and
if you yourself crossed my path in opposition, I swear, by the mark that darkens my brow, that
a new deed should be done--a new doom should be deserved!'

He was silent, and his threats were uttered in a tone of voice so deeply resolute, that Darsie's
heart sank within him, when he reflected on the storm of passion which he must encounter, if
he declined to join his uncle in a project to which prudence and principle made him equally
adverse. He had scarce any hope left but in temporizing until he could make his escape, and
resolved to avail himself for that purpose of the delay which his uncle seemed not unwilling
to grant. The stern, gloomy look of his companion became relaxed by degrees, and presently
afterwards he made a sign to Miss Redgauntlet to join the party, and began a forced conversation
on ordinary topics; in the course of which Darsie observed that his sister seemed to speak
under the most cautious restraint, weighing every word before she uttered it, and always permitting
her uncle to give the tone to the conversation, though of the most trifling kind. This seemed
to him (such an opinion had he already entertained of his sister's good sense and firmness)
the strongest proof he had yet received of his uncle's peremptory character, since he saw it
observed with so much deference by a young person whose sex might have given her privileges,
and who seemed by no means deficient either in spirit or firmness.

The little cavalcade was now approaching the house of Father Crackenthorp, situated, as the
reader knows, by the side of the Solway, and not far distant front a rude pier, near which
lay several fishing-boats, which frequently acted in a different capacity. The house of the
worthy publican was also adapted to the various occupations which he carried on, being a large
scrambling assemblage of cottages attached to a house of two stories, roofed with flags of
sandstone--the original mansion, to which the extensions of Mr. Crackenthorp's trade had occasioned
his making many additions. Instead of the single long watering-trough which usually distinguishes
the front of the English public-house of the second class, there were three conveniences of
that kind, for the use, as the landlord used to say, of the troop-horses when the soldiers
came to search his house; while a knowing leer and a nod let you understand what species of
troops he was thinking of. A huge ash-tree before the door, which had reared itself to a great
size and height, in spite of the blasts from the neighbouring Solway, overshadowed, as usual,
the ale-bench, as our ancestors called it, where, though it was still early in the day, several
fellows, who seemed to be gentlemen's servants, were drinking beer and smoking. One or two
of them wore liveries which seemed known to Mr. Redgauntlet, for he muttered between his teeth,
'Fools, fools! were they on a march to hell, they must have their rascals in livery with them,
that the whole world might know who were going to be damned.'

As he thus muttered, he drew bridle before the door of the place, from which several other
lounging guests began to issue, to look with indolent curiosity as usual, upon an ARRIVAL.

Redgauntlet sprang from his horse, and assisted his niece to dismount; but, forgetting, perhaps,
his nephew's disguise, he did not pay him the attention which his female dress demanded.

The situation of Darsie was indeed something awkward; for Cristal Nixon, out of caution perhaps
to prevent escape, had muffled the extreme folds of the riding-skirt with which he was accoutred,
around his ankles and under his feet, and there secured it with large corking-pins. We presume
that gentlemen-cavaliers may sometimes cast their eyes to that part of the person of the fair
equestrians whom they chance occasionally to escort; and if they will conceive their own feet,
like Darsie's, muffled in such a labyrinth of folds and amplitude of robe, as modesty doubtless
induces the fair creatures to assume upon such occasions, they will allow that, on a first
attempt, they might find some awkwardness in dismounting. Darsie, at least, was in such a predicament,
for, not receiving adroit assistance from the attendant of Mr. Redgauntlet, he stumbled as
he dismounted from the horse, and might have had a bad fall, had it not been broken by the
gallant interposition of a gentleman, who probably was, on his part, a little surprised at
the solid weight of the distressed fair one whom he had the honour to receive in his embrace.
But what was his surprise to that of Darsie, when the hurry of the moment and of the accident,
permitted him to see that it was his friend Alan Fairford in whose arms he found himself! A
thousand apprehensions rushed on him, mingled with the full career of hope and joy, inspired
by the unexpected appearance of his beloved friend at the very crisis, it seemed, of his fate.

He was about to whisper in his ear, cautioning him at the same time to be silent; yet he hesitated
for a second or two to effect his purpose, since, should Redgauntlet take the alarm from any
sudden exclamation on the part of Alan, there was no saying what consequences might ensue.

Ere he could decide what was to be done, Redgauntlet, who had entered the house, returned hastily,
followed by Cristal Nixon. 'I'll release you of the charge of this young lady, sir;' he said,
haughtily, to Alan Fairford, whom he probably did not recognize.

'I had no desire to intrude, sir,' replied Alan; 'the lady's situation seemed to require assistance--and--but
have I not the honour to speak to Mr. Herries of Birrenswork?'

'You are mistaken, sir,' said Redgauntlet, turning short off, and making a sign with his hand
to Cristal, who hurried Darsie, however unwillingly, into the house, whispering in his ear,
'Come, miss, let us have no making of acquaintance from the windows. Ladies of fashion must
be private. Show us a room, Father Crackenthorp.'

So saying, he conducted Darsie into the house, interposing at the same time his person betwixt
the supposed young lady and the stranger of whom he was suspicious, so as to make communication
by signs impossible. As they entered, they heard the sound of a fiddle in the stone-floored
and well-sanded kitchen, through which they were about to follow their corpulent host, and
where several people seemed engaged in dancing to its strains.

'D--n thee,' said Nixon to Crackenthorp, 'would you have the lady go through all the mob of
the parish? Hast thou no more private way to our sitting-room?'

'None that is fit for my travelling,' answered the landlord, laying his hand on his portly
stomach. 'I am not Tom Turnpenny, to creep like a lizard through keyholes.'

So saying, he kept moving on through the revellers in the kitchen; and Nixon, holding Darsie
by his arm, as if to offer the lady support but in all probability to frustrate any effort
at escape, moved through the crowd, which presented a very motley appearance, consisting of
domestic servants, country fellows, seamen, and other idlers, whom Wandering Willie was regaling
with his music.

To pass another friend without intimation of his presence would have been actual pusillanimity;
and just when they were passing the blind man's elevated seat, Darsie asked him with some emphasis,
whether he could not play a Scottish air? The man's face had been the instant before devoid
of all sort of expression, going through his performance like a clown through a beautiful country,
too much accustomed to consider it as a task, to take any interest in the performance, and,
in fact, scarce seeming to hear the noise that he was creating. In a word, he might at the
time have made a companion to my friend Wilkie's inimitable blind crowder. But with Wandering
Willie this was only an occasional and a rare fit of dullness, such as will at times creep
over all the professors of the fine arts, arising either from fatigue, or contempt of the present
audience, or that caprice which so often tempts painters and musicians and great actors, in
the phrase of the latter, to walk through their part, instead of exerting themselves with the
energy which acquired their fame. But when the performer heard the voice of Darsie, his countenance
became at once illuminated, and showed the complete mistake of those who suppose that the principal
point of expression depends upon the eyes. With his face turned to the point from which the
sound came, his upper lip a little curved, and quivering with agitation, and with a colour
which surprise and pleasure had brought at once into his faded cheek, he exchanged the humdrum
hornpipe which he had been sawing out with reluctant and lazy bow, for the fine Scottish air,

  You're welcome, Charlie Stuart,

which flew from his strings as if by inspiration and after a breathless pause of admiration
among the audience, was received with a clamour of applause, which seemed to show that the
name and tendency, as well as the execution of the tune, was in the highest degree acceptable
to all the party assembled.

In the meantime, Cristal Nixon, still keeping hold of Darsie, and following the landlord, forced
his way with some difficulty through the crowded kitchen, and entered a small apartment on
the other side of it, where they found Lilias Redgauntlet already seated. Here Nixon gave way
to his suppressed resentment, and turning sternly on Crackenthorp, threatened him with his
master's severest displeasure, because things were in such bad order to receive his family,
when he had given such special advice that he desired to be private. But Father Crackenthorp
was not a man to be brow-beaten.

'Why, brother Nixon, thou art angry this morning,' he replied; 'hast risen from thy wrong side,
I think. You know, as well as I, that most of this mob is of the squire's own making--gentlemen
that come with their servants, and so forth, to meet him in the way of business, as old Tom
Turnpenny says--the very last that came was sent down with Dick Gardener from Fairladies.'

'But the blind scraping scoundrel yonder,' said Nixon, 'how dared you take such a rascal as
that across your threshold at such a time as this? If the squire should dream you have a thought
of peaching--I am only speaking for your good, Father Crackenthorp.'

'Why, look ye, brother Nixon,' said Crackenthorp, turning his quid with great composure, 'the
squire is a very worthy gentleman, and I'll never deny it; but I am neither his servant nor
his tenant, and so he need send me none of his orders till he hears I have put on his livery.
As for turning away folk from my door, I might as well plug up the ale-tap, and pull down the
sign--and as for peaching, and such like, the squire will find the folk here are as honest
to the full as those he brings with him.'

'How, you impudent lump of tallow,' said Nixon, 'what do you mean by that?'

'Nothing,' said Crackenthorp, 'but that I can tour out as well as another--you understand me--keep
good lights in my upper story--know a thing or two more than most folk in this country. If
folk will come to my house on dangerous errands, egad they shall not find Joe Crackenthorp
a cat's-paw. I'll keep myself clear, you may depend on it, and let every man answer for his
own actions--that's my way. Anything wanted, Master Nixon?'

'No--yes--begone!' said Nixon, who seemed embarrassed with the landlord's contumacy, yet desirous
to conceal the effect it produced on him.

The door was no sooner closed on Crackenthorp, than Miss Redgauntlet, addressing Nixon, commanded
him to leave the room and go to his proper place.

'How, madam?' said the fellow sullenly, yet with an air of respect, 'Would you have your uncle
pistol me for disobeying his orders?'

'He may perhaps pistol you for some other reason, if you do not obey mine,' said Lilias, composedly.

'You abuse your advantage over me, madam--I really dare not go--I am on guard over this other
miss here; and if I should desert my post, my life were not worth five minutes' purchase.'

'Then know your post, sir,' said Lilias, 'and watch on the outside of the door. You have no
commission to listen to our private conversation, I suppose? Begone, sir, without further speech
or remonstrance, or I will tell my uncle that which you would have reason to repent be should
know.'

The fellow looked at her with a singular expression of spite, mixed with deference. 'You abuse
your advantages, madam,' he said, 'and act as foolishly in doing so as I did in affording you
such a hank over me. But you are a tyrant; and tyrants have commonly short reigns.'

So saying, he left the apartment.

'The wretch's unparalleled insolence,' said Lilias to her brother, 'has given me one great
advantage over him. For knowing that my uncle would shoot him with as little remorse as a woodcock,
if he but guessed at his brazen-faced assurance towards me, he dares not since that time assume,
so far as I am concerned, the air of insolent domination which the possession of my uncle's
secrets, and the knowledge of his most secret plans, have led him to exert over others of his
family.'

'In the meantime,' said Darsie, 'I am happy to see that the landlord of the house does not
seem so devoted to him as I apprehended; and this aids the hope of escape which I am nourishing
for you and for myself. O Lilias! the truest of friends, Alan Fairford, is in pursuit of me,
and is here at this moment. Another humble, but, I think, faithful friend, is also within these
dangerous walls.'

Lilias laid her finger on her lips, and pointed to the door. Darsie took the hint, lowered
his voice, and informed her in whispers of the arrival of Fairford, and that he believed he
had opened a communication with Wandering Willie. She listened with the utmost interest, and
had just begun to reply, when a loud noise was heard in the kitchen, caused by several contending
voices, amongst which Darsie thought he could distinguish that of Alan Fairford.

Forgetting how little his own condition permitted him to become the assistant of another, Darsie
flew to the door of the room, and finding it locked and bolted on the outside, rushed against
it with all his force, and made the most desperate efforts to burst it open, notwithstanding
the entreaties of his sister that he would compose himself and recollect the condition in which
he was placed. But the door, framed to withstand attacks from excisemen, constables, and other
personages, considered as worthy to use what are called the king's keys, [In common parlance,
a crowbar and hatchet.] 'and therewith to make lockfast places open and patent,' set his efforts
at defiance. Meantime the noise continued without, and we are to give an account of its origin
in our next chapter.

CHAPTER XX

NARRATIVE OF DARSIE LATIMER, CONTINUED

Joe Crackenthorp's public-house had never, since it first reared its chimneys on the banks
of the Solway, been frequented by such a miscellaneous group of visitors as had that morning
become its guests. Several of them were persons whose quality seemed much superior to their
dresses and modes of travelling. The servants who attended them contradicted the inferences
to be drawn from the garb of their masters, and, according to the custom of the knights of
the rainbow, gave many hints that they were not people to serve any but men of first-rate consequence.
These gentlemen, who had come thither chiefly for the purpose of meeting with Mr. Redgauntlet,
seemed moody and anxious, conversed and walked together apparently in deep conversation, and
avoided any communication with the chance travellers whom accident brought that morning to
the same place of resort.

As if Fate had set herself to confound the plans of the Jacobite conspirators, the number of
travellers was unusually great, their appearance respectable, and they filled the public tap-room
of the inn, where the political guests had already occupied most of the private apartments.

Amongst others, honest Joshua Geddes had arrived, travelling, as he said, in the sorrow of
the soul, and mourning for the fate of Darsie Latimer as he would for his first-born child.
He had skirted the whole coast of the Solway, besides making various trips into the interior,
not shunning, on such occasions, to expose himself to the laugh of the scorner, nay, even to
serious personal risk, by frequenting the haunts of smugglers, horse-jockeys, and other irregular
persons, who looked on his intrusion with jealous eyes, and were apt to consider him as an
exciseman in the disguise of a Quaker. All this labour and peril, however, had been undergone
in vain. No search he could make obtained the least intelligence of Latimer, so that he began
to fear the poor lad had been spirited abroad--for the practice of kidnapping was then not
infrequent, especially on the western coasts of Britain--if indeed he had escaped a briefer
and more bloody fate.

With a heavy heart, he delivered his horse, even Solomon, into the hands of the ostler, and
walking into the inn, demanded from the landlord breakfast and a private room. Quakers, and
such hosts as old Father Crackenthorp, are no congenial spirits; the latter looked askew over
his shoulder, and replied, 'If you would have breakfast here, friend, you are like to eat it
where other folk eat theirs.'

'And wherefore can I not,' said the Quaker, 'have an apartment to myself, for my money?'

'Because, Master Jonathan, you must wait till your betters be served, or else eat with your
equals.'

Joshua Geddes argued the point no further, but sitting quietly down on the seat which Crackenthorp
indicated to him, and calling for a pint of ale, with some bread, butter, and Dutch cheese,
began to satisfy the appetite which the morning air had rendered unusually alert.

While the honest Quaker was thus employed, another stranger entered the apartment, and sat
down near to the table on which his victuals were placed. He looked repeatedly at Joshua, licked
his parched and chopped lips as he saw the good Quaker masticate his bread and cheese, and
sucked up his thin chops when Mr. Geddes applied the tankard to his mouth, as if the discharge
of these bodily functions by another had awakened his sympathies in an uncontrollable degree.
At last, being apparently unable to withstand his longings, he asked, in a faltering tone,
the huge landlord, who was tramping through the room in all corpulent impatience, whether he
could have a plack-pie?'

'Never heard of such a thing, master,' said the landlord, and was about to trudge onward; when
the guest, detaining him, said, in a strong Scottish tone, 'Ya will maybe have nae whey then,
nor buttermilk, nor ye couldna exhibit a souter's clod?'

'Can't tell what ye are talking about, master,' said Crackenthorp.

'Then ye will have nae breakfast that will come within 'the compass of a shilling Scots?'

'Which is a penny sterling,' answered Crackenthorp, with a sneer. 'Why, no, Sawney, I can't
say as we have--we can't afford it; But you shall have a bellyful for love, as we say in the
bull-ring.'

'I shall never refuse a fair offer,' said the poverty-stricken guest; 'and I will say that
for the English, if they were deils, that they are a ceeveleesed people to gentlemen that are
under a cloud.'

'Gentlemen!--humph!' said Crackenthorp--'not a blue-cap among them but halts upon that foot.'
Then seizing on a dish which still contained a huge cantle of what had been once a princely
mutton pasty, he placed it on the table before the stranger, saying, 'There, master gentleman;
there is what is worth all the black pies, as you call them, that were ever made of sheep's head.'

'Sheep's head is a gude thing, for a' that,' replied the guest; but not being spoken so loud
as to offend his hospitable entertainer, the interjection might pass for a private protest
against the scandal thrown out against the standing dish of Caledonia.

This premised, he immediately began to transfer the mutton and pie-crust from his plate to
his lips, in such huge gobbets, as if he was refreshing after a three days' fast, and laying
in provisions against a whole Lent to come.

Joshua Geddes in his turn gazed on him with surprise, having never, he thought, beheld such
a gaunt expression of hunger in the act of eating. 'Friend,' he said, after watching him for
some minutes, 'if thou gorgest thyself in this fashion, thou wilt assuredly choke. Wilt thou
not take a draught out of my cup to help down all that dry meat?'

'Troth,' said the stranger, stopping and looking at the friendly propounder, 'that's nae bad
overture, as they say in the General Assembly. I have heard waur motions than that frae wiser
counsel.'

Mr. Geddes ordered a quart of home-brewed to be placed before our friend Peter Peebles; for
the reader must have already conceived that this unfortunate litigant was the wanderer in question.

The victim of Themis had no sooner seen the flagon, than he seized it with the same energy
which he had displayed in operating upon the pie--puffed off the froth with such emphasis,
that some of it lighted on Mr. Geddes's head--and then said, as if with it sudden recollection
of what was due to civility, 'Here's to ye, friend. What! are ye ower grand to give me an answer,
or are ye dull o' hearing?'

'I prithee drink thy liquor, friend,' said the good Quaker; 'thou meanest it in civility, but
we care not for these idle fashions.'

'What! ye are a Quaker, are ye?' said Peter; and without further ceremony reared the flagon
to his head, from which he withdrew it not while a single drop of 'barley-broo' remained. 'That's
done you and me muckle gude,' he said, sighing as he set down his pot; 'but twa mutchkins o'
yill between twa folk is a drappie ower little measure. What say ye to anither pot? or shall
we cry in a blithe Scots pint at ance? The yill is no amiss.'

'Thou mayst call for what thou wilt on thine own charges, friend,' said Geddes; 'for myself,
I willingly contribute to the quenching of thy natural thirst; but I fear it were no such easy
matter to relieve thy acquired and artificial drought.'

'That is to say, in plain terms, ye are for withdrawing your caution with the folk of the house?
You Quaker folk are but fause comforters; but since ye have garred me drink sae muckle cauld
yill--me that am no used to the like of it in the forenoon--I think ye might as weel have offered
me a glass of brandy or usquabae--I'm nae nice body--I can drink onything that's wet and toothsome.'

'Not a drop at my cost, friend,' quoth Geddes. 'Thou art an old man, and hast perchance a heavy
and long journey before thee. Thou art, moreover, my countryman, as I judge from thy tongue;
and I will not give thee the means of dishonouring thy grey hairs in a strange land.'

'Grey hairs, neighbour!' said Peter, with a wink to the bystanders, whom this dialogue began
to interest, and who were in hopes of seeing the Quaker played off by the crazed beggar, for
such Peter Peebles appeared to be. 'Grey hairs! The Lord mend your eyesight, neighbour, that
disna ken grey hairs frae a tow wig!'

This jest procured a shout of laughter, and, what was still more acceptable than dry applause,
a man who stood beside called out, 'Father Crackenthorp, bring a nipperkin of brandy. I'll
bestow a dram on this fellow, were it but for that very word.'

The brandy was immediately brought by a wench who acted as barmaid; and Peter, with a grin
of delight, filled a glass, quaffed it off, and then saying, 'God bless me! I was so unmannerly
as not to drink to ye--I think the Quaker has smitten me wi' his ill-bred havings,'--he was
about to fill another, when his hand was arrested by his new friend; who said at the same time,
'No, no, friend--fair play's a jewel--time about, if you please.' And filling a glass for himself,
emptied it as gallantly as Peter could have done. 'What say you to that, friend?' he continued,
addressing the Quaker.

'Nay, friend,' answered Joshua, 'it went down thy throat, not mine; and I have nothing to say
about what concerns me not; but if thou art a man of humanity, thou wilt not give this poor
creature the means of debauchery. Bethink thee that they will spurn him from the door, as they
would do a houseless and masterless dog, and that he may die on the sands or on the common.
And if he has through thy means been rendered incapable of helping himself, thou shalt not
be innocent of his blood.'

'Faith, Broadbrim, I believe thou art right, and the old gentleman in the flaxen jazy shall
have no more of the comforter. Besides, we have business in hand to-day, and this fellow, for
as mad as he looks, may have a nose on his face after all. Hark ye, father,--what is your name,
and what brings you into such an out-of-the-way corner?'

'I am not just free to condescend on my name,' said Peter; 'and as for my business--there is
a wee dribble of brandy in the stoup--it would be wrang to leave it to the lass--it is learning
her bad usages.'

'Well, thou shalt have the brandy, and be d--d to thee, if thou wilt tell me what you are making
here.'

'Seeking a young advocate chap that they ca' Alan Fairford, that has played me a slippery trick,
and ye maun ken a' about the cause,' said Peter.

'An advocate, man!' answered the captain of the JUMPING JENNY--for it was he, and no other,
who had taken compassion on Peter's drought; 'why, Lord help thee, thou art on the wrong side
of the Firth to seek advocates, whom I take to be Scottish lawyers, not English.'

'English lawyers, man!' exclaimed Peter, 'the deil a lawyer's in a' England.'

'I wish from my soul it were true,' said Ewart; 'but what the devil put that in your head?'

'Lord, man, I got a grip of ane of their attorneys in Carlisle, and he tauld me that there
wasna a lawyer in England ony mair than himsell that kend the nature of a multiple-poinding!
And when I told him how this loopy lad, Alan Fairford, had served me, he said I might bring
an action on the case--just as if the case hadna as mony actions already as one case can weel
carry. By my word, it is a gude case, and muckle has it borne, in its day, of various procedure--but
it's the barley-pickle breaks the naig's back, and wi' my consent it shall not hae ony mair
burden laid upon it.'

'But this Alan Fairford?' said Nanty--'come--sip up the drop of brandy, man, and tell me some
more about him, and whether you are seeking him for good or for harm.'

'For my ain gude, and for his harm, to be sure,' said Peter. 'Think of his having left my cause
in the dead-thraw between the tyneing and the winning, and capering off into Cumberland here,
after a wild loup-the-tether lad they ca' Darsie Latimer.'

'Darsie Latimer!' said Mr. Geddes, hastily; 'do you know anything of Darsie Latimer?'

'Maybe I do, and maybe I do not,' answered Peter; 'I am no free to answer every body's interrogatory,
unless it is put judicially, and by form of law--specially where folk think so much of a caup
of sour yill, or a thimblefu' of brandy. But as for this gentleman, that has shown himself
a gentleman at breakfast, and will show himself a gentleman at the meridian, I am free to condescend
upon any points in the cause that may appear to bear upon the question at issue.'

'Why, all I want to know from you, my friend, is, whether you are seeking to do this Mr. Alan
Fairford good or harm; because if you come to do him good, I think you could maybe get speech
of him--and if to do him harm, I will take the liberty to give you a cast across the Firth,
with fair warning not to come back on such an errand, lest worse come of it.'

The manner and language of Ewart were such that Joshua Geddes resolved to keep cautious silence,
till he could more plainly discover whether he was likely to aid or impede him in his researches
after Darsie Latimer. He therefore determined to listen attentively to what should pass between
Peter and the seaman, and to watch for an opportunity of questioning the former, so soon as
he should be separated from his new acquaintance.

'I wad by no means,' said Peter Peebles, 'do any substantial harm to the poor lad Fairford,
who has had mony a gowd guinea of mine, as weel as his father before him; but I wad hae him
brought back to the minding of my business and his ain; and maybe I wadna insist further in
my action of damages against him, than for refunding the fees, and for some annual rent on
the principal sum due frae the day on which he should have recovered it for me, plack and bawbee,
at the great advising; for ye are aware, that is the least that I can ask NOMINE DAMNI; and
I have nae thought to break down the lad bodily a'thegither--we maun live and let live--forgie
and forget.'

'The deuce take me, friend Broadbrim,' said Nanty Ewart, looking to the Quaker, 'if I can make
out what this old scarecrow means. If I thought it was fitting that Master Fairford should
see him, why perhaps it is a matter that could be managed. Do you know anything about the old
fellow?--you seemed to take some charge of him just now.'

'No more than I should have done by any one in distress,' said Geddes, not sorry to be appealed
to; 'but I will try what I can do to find out who he is, and what he is about in this country.
But are we not a little too public in this open room?'

'It's well thought of,' said Nanty; and at his command the barmaid ushered the party into a
side-booth, Peter attending them in the instinctive hope that there would be more liquor drunk
among them before parting. They had scarce sat down in their new apartment, when the sound
of a violin was heard in the room which they had just left.

'I'll awa back yonder,' said Peter, rising up again; 'yon's the sound of a fiddle, and when
there is music, there's ay something ganging to eat or drink.'

'I am just going to order something here,' said the Quaker; 'but in the meantime, have you
any objection, my good friend, to tell us your name?'

'None in the world, if you are wanting to drink to me by name and surname,' answered Peebles;
'but, otherwise, I would rather evite your interrogatories.'

'Friend,' said the Quaker, 'it is not for thine own health, seeing thou hast drunk enough already--however--here,
handmaiden--bring me a gill of sherry.'

'Sherry's but shilpit drink, and a gill's a sma' measure for twa gentlemen to crack ower at
their first acquaintance. But let us see your sneaking gill of sherry,' said Poor Peter, thrusting
forth his huge hand to seize on the diminutive pewter measure, which, according to the fashion
of the time, contained the generous liquor freshly drawn from the butt.

'Nay, hold, friend,' said Joshua, 'thou hast not yet told me what name and surname I am to
call thee by.'

'D--d sly in the Quaker,' said Nanty, apart, 'to make him pay for his liquor before he gives
it him. Now, I am such a fool, that I should have let him get too drunk to open his mouth,
before I thought of asking him a question.'

'My name is Peter Peebles, then,' said the litigant, rather sulkily, as one who thought his
liquor too sparingly meted out to him; 'and what have you to say to that?'

'Peter Peebles?' repeated Nanty Ewart and seemed to muse upon something which the words brought
to his remembrance, while the Quaker pursued his examination.

'But I prithee, Peter Peebles, what is thy further designation? Thou knowest, in our country,
that some men are distinguished by their craft and calling, as cordwainers, fishers, weavers,
or the like, and some by their titles as proprietors of land (which savours of vanity)--now,
how may you be distinguished from others of the same name?'

'As Peter Peebles of the great plea of Poor Peter Peebles against Plainstanes, ET PER CONTRA--if
I am laird of naething else, I am ay a DOMINUS LITIS.'

'It's but a poor lairdship, I doubt,' said Joshua.

'Pray, Mr. Peebles,' said Nanty, interrupting the conversation abruptly, 'were not you once
a burgess of Edinburgh?'

'WAS I a burgess!' said Peter indignantly, 'and AM I not a burgess even now? I have done nothing
to forfeit my right, I trow--once provost and ay my lord.'

'Well, Mr. Burgess, tell me further, have you not some property in the Gude Town?' continued Ewart.

'Troth have I--that is, before my misfortunes, I had twa or three bonny bits of mailings amang
the closes and wynds, forby the shop and the story abune it. But Plainstanes has put me to
the causeway now. Never mind though, I will be upsides with him yet.'

'Had not you once a tenement in the Covenant Close?' again demanded Nanty.

'You have hit it, lad, though ye look not like a Covenanter,' said Peter; 'we'll drink to its
memory--(Hout! the heart's at the mouth o' that ill-faur'd bit stoup already!)--it brought
a rent, reckoning from the crawstep to the groundsill, that ye might ca' fourteen punds a year,
forby the laigh cellar that was let to Lucky Littleworth.'

'And do you not remember that you had a poor old lady for your tenant, Mrs. Cantrips of Kittlebasket?'
said Nanty, suppressing his emotion with difficulty.

'Remember! G--d, I have gude cause to remember her,' said Peter, 'for she turned a dyvour on
my hands, the auld besom! and after a' that the law could do to make me satisfied and paid,
in the way of poinding and distrenzieing and sae forth, as the law will, she ran awa to the
charity workhouse, a matter of twenty punds Scots in my debt--it's a great shame and oppression
that charity workhouse, taking in bankrupt dyvours that canna, pay their honest creditors.'

'Methinks, friend,' said the Quaker, 'thine own rags might teach thee compassion for other
people's nakedness.'

'Rags!' said Peter, taking Joshua's words literally; 'does ony wise body put on their best
coat when they are travelling, and keeping company with Quakers, and such other cattle as the
road affords?'

'The old lady DIED, I have heard,' said Nanty, affecting a moderation which was belied by accents
that faltered with passion.

'She might live or die, for what I care,' answered Peter the Cruel; 'what business have folk
to do to live that canna live as law will, and satisfy their just and lawful creditors?'

'And you--you that are now yourself trodden down in the very kennel, are you not sorry for
what you have done? Do you not repent having occasioned the poor widow woman's death?'

'What for should I repent?' said Peter; 'the law was on my side--a decreet of the bailies,
followed by poinding, and an act of warding--a suspension intented, and the letters found orderly
proceeded. I followed the auld rudas through twa courts--she cost me mair money than her lugs
were worth.'

'Now, by Heaven!' said Nanty, 'I would give a thousand guineas, if I had them, to have you
worth my beating! Had you said you repented, it had been between God and your conscience; but
to hear you boast of your villany--Do you think it little to have reduced the aged to famine,
and the young to infamy--to have caused the death of one woman, the ruin of another, and to
have driven a man to exile and despair? By Him that made me, I can scarce keep hands off you!

'Off me? I defy ye!' said Peter. 'I take this honest man to witness that if ye stir the neck
of my collar, I will have my action for stouthreif, spulzie, oppression, assault and battery.
Here's a bra' din, indeed, about an auld wife gaun to the grave, a young limmer to the close-heads
and causeway, and a sticket stibbler [A student of divinity who has not been able to complete
his studies on theology.] to the sea instead of the gallows!'

'Now, by my soul,' said Nanty, 'this is too much! and since you can feel no otherwise, I will
try if I cannot beat some humanity into your head and shoulders.'

He drew his hanger as he spoke, and although Joshua, who had in vain endeavoured to interrupt
the dialogue to which he foresaw a violent termination, now threw himself between Nanty and
the old litigant, he could not prevent the latter from receiving two or three sound slaps over
the shoulder with the flat side of the weapon.

Poor Peter Peebles, as inglorious in his extremity as he had been presumptuous in bringing
it on, now ran and roared, and bolted out of the apartment and house itself, pursued by Nanty,
whose passion became high in proportion to his giving way to its dictates, and by Joshua, who
still interfered at every risk, calling upon Nanty to reflect on the age and miserable circumstances
of the offender, and upon Poor Peter to stand and place himself under his protection. In front
of the house, however, Peter Peebles found a more efficient protector than the worthy Quaker.

CHAPTER XXI

NARRATIVE OF ALAN FAIRFORD

Our readers may recollect that Fairford had been conducted by Dick Gardener from the house
of Fairladies to the inn of old Father Crackenthorp, in order, as he had been informed by the
mysterious Father Buonaventure, that he might have the meeting which he desired with Mr. Redgauntlet,
to treat with him for the liberty of his friend Darsie. His guide, by the special direction
of Mr. Ambrose, had introduced him into the public-house by a back-door, and recommended to
the landlord to accommodate him with a private apartment, and to treat him with all civility;
but in other respects to keep his eye on him, and even to secure his person, if he saw any
reason to suspect him to be a spy. He was not, however, subjected to any direct restraint,
but was ushered into an apartment where he was requested to await the arrival of the gentleman
with whom he wished to have an interview, and who, as Crackenthorp assured, him with a significant
nod, would be certainly there in the course of an hour. In the meanwhile, he recommended to
him, with another significant sign, to keep his apartment, 'as there were people in the house
who were apt to busy themselves about other folk's matters.'

Alan Fairford complied with the recommendation, so long as he thought it reasonable; but when,
among a large party riding up to the house, he discerned Redgauntlet, whom he had seen under
the name of Mr. Herries of Birrenswork, and whom, by his height and strength, he easily distinguished
from the rest, he thought it proper to go down to the front of the house, in hopes that, by
more closely reconnoitring the party, he might discover if his friend Darsie was among them.

The reader is aware that, by doing so, he had an opportunity of breaking Darsie's fall from
his side-saddle, although his disguise and mask prevented his recognizing his friend. It may
be also recollected that while Nixon hurried Miss Redgauntlet and her brother into the house,
their uncle, somewhat chafed at an unexpected and inconvenient interruption, remained himself
in parley with Fairford, who had already successively addressed him by the names of Herries
and Redgauntlet; neither of which, any more than the acquaintance of the young lawyer, he seemed
at the moment willing to acknowledge, though an air of haughty indifference, which he assumed,
could not conceal his vexation and embarrassment.

'If we must needs be acquainted, sir,' he said at last--'for which I am unable to see any necessity,
especially as I am now particularly disposed to be private--I must entreat you will tell me
at once what you have to say, and permit me to attend to matters of more importance.'

'My introduction,' said Fairford, 'is contained in this letter.--(Delivering that of Maxwell.)--I
am convinced that, under whatever name it may be your pleasure for the present to be known,
it is into your hands, and yours only, that it should be delivered.'

Redgauntlet turned the letter in his hand--then read the contents then again looked upon the
letter, and sternly observed, 'The seal of the letter has been broken. Was this the case, sir,
when it was delivered into your hand?'

Fairford despised a falsehood as much as any man,--unless, perhaps, as Tom Turnpenny might
have said, 'in the way of business.' He answered readily and firmly, 'The seal was whole when
the letter was delivered to me by Mr. Maxwell of Summertrees.'

'And did you dare, sir, to break the seal of a letter addressed to me?' said Redgauntlet, not
sorry, perhaps, to pick a quarrel upon a point foreign to the tenor of the epistle.

'I have never broken the seal of any letter committed to my charge,' said Alan; 'not from fear
of those to whom such letter might be addressed, but from respect to myself.'

'That is well worded,' said Redgauntlet; 'and yet, young Mr. Counsellor, I doubt whether your
delicacy prevented your reading my letter, or listening to the contents as read by some other
person after it was opened.'

'I certainly did hear the contents read over,' said Fairford; 'and they were such as to surprise
me a good deal.'

'Now that,' said Redgauntlet, 'I hold to be pretty much the same, IN FORO CONSCIENTIAE, as
if you had broken the seal yourself. I shall hold myself excused from entering upon further
discourse with a messenger so faithless; and you may thank yourself if your journey has been
fruitless.'

'Stay, sir,' said Fairford; 'and know that I became acquainted with the contents of the paper
without my consent--I may even say, against my will; for Mr. Buonaventure'--

'Who?' demanded Redgauntlet, in a wild and alarmed manner--'WHOM was it you named?'

'Father Buonaventure,' said Alan,--'a Catholic priest, as I apprehend, whom I saw at the Misses
Arthuret's house, called Fairladies.'

'Misses Arthuret!--Fairladies!--A Catholic priest!--Father Buonaventure!' said Redgauntlet,
repeating the words of Alan with astonishment.--'Is it possible that human rashness can reach
such a point of infatuation? Tell me the truth, I conjure you, sir. I have the deepest interest
to know whether this is more than an idle legend, picked up from hearsay about the country.
You are a lawyer, and know the risk incurred by the Catholic clergy, whom the discharge of
their duty sends to these bloody shores.'

'I am a lawyer, certainly,' said Fairford; 'but my holding such a respectable condition in
life warrants that I am neither an informer nor a spy. Here is sufficient evidence that I have
seen Father Buonaventure.'

He put Buonaventure's letter into Redgauntlet's hand, and watched his looks closely while he
read it. 'Double-dyed infatuation!' he muttered, with looks in which sorrow, displeasure, and
anxiety were mingled. '"Save me from the indiscretion of my friends," says the Spaniard; "I
can save myself from the hostility of my enemies."'

He then read the letter attentively, and for two or three minutes was lost in thought, while
some purpose of importance seemed to have gathered and sit brooding upon his countenance. He
held up his finger towards his satellite, Cristal Nixon, who replied to his signal with a prompt
nod; and with one or two of the attendants approached Fairford in such a manner as to make
him apprehensive they were about to lay hold of him.

At this moment a noise was heard from withinside of the house, and presently rushed forth Peter
Peebles, pursued by Nanty Ewart with his drawn hanger, and the worthy Quaker, who was endeavouring
to prevent mischief to others, at some risk of bringing it on himself.

A wilder and yet a more absurd figure can hardly be imagined, than that of Poor Peter clattering
along as fast as his huge boots would permit him, and resembling nothing so much as a flying
scarecrow; while the thin emaciated form of Nanty Ewart, with the hue of death on his cheek,
and the fire of vengeance glancing from his eye, formed a ghastly contrast with the ridiculous
object of his pursuit.

Redgauntlet threw himself between them. 'What extravagant folly is this?' he said. 'Put up
your weapon, captain. Is this a time to indulge in drunken brawls, or is such a miserable object
as that a fitting antagonist for a man of courage?'

'I beg pardon,' said the captain, sheathing his weapon--'I was a little bit out of the way,
to be sure; but to know the provocation, a man must read my heart, and that I hardly dare to
do myself. But the wretch is safe from me. Heaven has done its own vengeance on us both.'

While he spoke in this manner, Peter Peebles, who had at first crept behind Redgauntlet in
bodily fear, began now to reassume his spirits. Pulling his protector by the sleeve, 'Mr. Herries--Mr.
Herries,' he whispered, eagerly, 'ye have done me mair than ae gude turn, and if ye will but
do me anither at this dead pinch, I'll forgie the girded keg of brandy that you and Captain
Sir Harry Redgimlet drank out yon time. Ye sall hae an ample discharge and renunciation, and,
though I should see you walking at the Cross of Edinburgh, or standing at the bar of the Court
of Justiciary, no the very thumbikins themselves should bring to my memory that ever I saw
you in arms yon day.'

He accompanied this promise by pulling so hard at Redgauntlet's cloak, that he at last turned
round. 'Idiot! speak in a word what you want.'

'Aweel, aweel. In a word, then,' said Peter Peebles, 'I have a warrant on me to apprehend that
man that stands there, Alan Fairford by name, and advocate by calling. I bought it from Maister
Justice Foxley's clerk, Maister Nicholas Faggot, wi' the guinea that you gied me.

'Ha!' said Redgauntlet, 'hast thou really such a warrant? let me see it. Look sharp that no
one escape, Cristal Nixon.'

Peter produced a huge, greasy, leathern pocketbook, too dirty to permit its original colour
to be visible, filled with scrolls of notes, memorials to counsel, and Heaven knows what besides.
From amongst this precious mass he culled forth a paper, and placed it in the hands of Redgauntlet,
or Herries, as he continued to call him, saying, at the same time, 'It's a formal and binding
warrant, proceeding on my affidavy made, that the said Alan Fairford, being lawfully engaged
in my service, had slipped the tether and fled over the Border, and was now lurking there and
thereabouts, to elude and evite the discharge of his bounden duty to me; and therefore granting
warrant to constables and others, to seek for, take, and apprehend him, that he may be brought
before the Honourable Justice Foxley for examination, and, if necessary, for commitment. Now,
though a' this be fairly set down, as I tell ye, yet where am I to get an officer to execute
this warrant in sic a country as this, where swords and pistols flee out at a word's speaking,
and folk care as little for the peace of King George as the peace of Auld King Coul? There's
that drunken skipper, and that wet Quaker, enticed me into the public this morning, and because
I wadna gie them' as much brandy as wad have made them blind-drunk, they baith fell on me,
and were in the way of guiding me very ill.'

While Peter went on in this manner, Redgauntlet glanced his eye over the warrant, and immediately
saw that it must be a trick passed by Nicholas Faggot, to cheat the poor insane wretch out
of his solitary guinea. But the Justice had actually subscribed it, as he did whatever his
clerk presented to him, and Redgauntlet resolved to use it for his own purposes.

Without making any direct answer, therefore, to Peter Peebles, he walked up gravely to Fairford,
who had waited quietly for the termination of a scene in which he was not a little surprised
to find his client, Mr. Peebles, a conspicuous actor.

'Mr. Fairford,' said Redgauntlet, 'there are many reasons which might induce me to comply with
the request, or rather the injunctions, of the excellent Father Buonaventure, that I should
communicate with you upon the present condition of my ward, whom you know under the name of
Darsie Latimer; but no man is better aware than you that the law must be obeyed, even in contradiction
to our own feelings; now this poor man has obtained a warrant for carrying you before a magistrate,
and, I am afraid, there is a necessity of your yielding to it, although to the postponement
of the business which you may have with me.'

'A warrant against me!' said Alan, indignantly; 'and at that poor miserable wretch's instance?--why,
this is a trick, a mere and most palpable trick.'

'It may be so,' replied Redgauntlet, with great equanimity; 'doubtless you know best; only
the writ appears regular, and with that respect for the law which has been,' he said, with
hypocritical formality, 'a leading feature of my character through life, I cannot dispense
with giving my poor aid to the support of a legal warrant. Look at it yourself, and be satisfied
it is no trick of mine.'

Fairford ran over the affidavit and the warrant, and then exclaimed once more, that it was
an impudent imposition, and that he would hold those who acted upon such a warrant liable in
the highest damages. 'I guess at your motive, Mr. Redgauntlet,' he said, 'for acquiescing in
so ridiculous a proceeding. But be assured you will find that, in this country, one act of
illegal violence will not be covered or atoned for by practising another. You cannot, as a
man of sense and honour, pretend to say you regard this as a legal warrant.'

'I am no lawyer, sir,' said Redgauntlet; 'and pretend not to know what is or is not law--the
warrant is quite formal, and that is enough for me.'

'Did ever any one hear,' said Fairford, 'of an advocate being compelled to return to his task,
like a collier or a salter [See Note 10.] who has deserted his master?'

'I see no reason why he should not,' said Redgauntlet, dryly, 'unless on the ground that the
services of the lawyer are the most expensive and least useful of the two.'

'You cannot mean this in earnest,' said Fairford; 'you cannot really mean to avail yourself
of so poor a contrivance, to evade the word pledged by your friend, your ghostly father, in
my behalf. I may have been a fool for trusting it too easily, but think what you must be if
you can abuse my confidence in this manner. I entreat you to reflect that this usage releases
me from all promises of secrecy or connivance at what I am apt to think are very dangerous
practices, and that'--

'Hark ye, Mr. Fairford,' said Redgauntlet; 'I must here interrupt you for your own sake. One
word of betraying what you may have seen, or what you may have suspected, and your seclusion
is like to have either a very distant or a very brief termination; in either case a most undesirable
one. At present, you are sure of being at liberty in a very few days--perhaps much sooner.'

'And my friend,' said Alan Fairford, 'for whose sake I have run myself into this danger, what
is to become of him? Dark and dangerous man!' he exclaimed, raising his voice, I will not be
again cajoled by deceitful promises'--

'I give you my honour that your friend is well,' interrupted Redgauntlet; 'perhaps I may permit
you to see him, if you will but submit with patience to a fate which is inevitable.'

But Alan Fairford, considering his confidence as having been abused, first by Maxwell, and
next by the priest, raised his voice, and appealed to all the king's lieges within hearing,
against the violence with which he was threatened. He was instantly seized on by Nixon and
two assistants, who, holding down his arms, and endeavouring to stop his mouth, were about
to hurry him away.

The honest Quaker, who had kept out of Redgauntlet's presence, now came boldly forward.

'Friend,' said he, 'thou dost more than thou canst answer. Thou knowest me well, and thou art
aware that in me thou hast a deeply injured neighbour, who was dwelling beside thee in the
honesty and simplicity of his heart.'

'Tush, Jonathan,' said Redgauntlet; 'talk not to me, man; it is neither the craft of a young
lawyer, nor the SIMPLICITY of an old hypocrite, can drive me from my purpose.

'By my faith,' said the captain, coming forward in his turn, 'this is hardly fair, general;
and I doubt,' he added, 'whether the will of my owners can make me a party to such proceedings.
Nay, never fumble with your sword-hilt, but out with it like a man, if you are for a tilting.'
He unsheathed his hanger, and continued--'I will neither see my comrade Fairford, nor the old
Quaker, abused. D----n all warrants, false or true--curse the justice--confound the constable!--and
here stands little Nanty Ewart to make good what he says against gentle and simple, in spite
of horse-shoe or horse-radish either.'

The cry of 'Down with all warrants!' was popular in the ears of the militia of the inn, and
Nanty Ewart was no less so. Fishers, ostlers, seamen, smugglers, began to crowd to the spot.
Crackenthorp endeavoured in vain to mediate. The attendants of Redgauntlet began to handle
their firearms; but their master shouted to them to forbear, and, unsheathing his sword as
quick as lightning, he rushed on Ewart in the midst of his bravado, and struck his weapon from
his hand with such address and force, that it flew three yards from him. Closing with him at
the same moment, he gave him a severe fall, and waved his sword over his head, to show he was
absolutely at his mercy.

'There, you drunken vagabond,' he said, 'I give you your life--you are no bad fellow if you
could keep from brawling among your friends. But we all know Nanty Ewart,' he said to the crowd
around, with a forgiving laugh, which, joined to the awe his prowess had inspired, entirely
confirmed their wavering allegiance.

They shouted, 'The laird for ever!' while poor Nanty, rising from the earth, on whose lap he
had been stretched so rudely, went in quest of his hanger, lifted it, wiped it, and, as he
returned the weapon to the scabbard, muttered between his teeth, 'It is true they say of him,
and the devil will stand his friend till his hour come; I will cross him no more.'

So saying, he slunk from the crowd, cowed and disheartened by his defeat.

'For you, Joshua Geddes,' said Redgauntlet, approaching the Quaker, who, with lifted hands
and eyes, had beheld the scene of violence, 'l shall take the liberty to arrest thee for a
breach of the peace, altogether unbecoming thy pretended principles; and I believe it will
go hard with thee both in a court of justice and among thine own Society of Friends, as they
call themselves, who will be but indifferently pleased to see the quiet tenor of their hypocrisy
insulted by such violent proceedings.'

'I violent!' said Joshua; 'I do aught unbecoming the principles of the Friends! I defy thee,
man, and I charge thee, as a Christian, to forbear vexing my soul with such charges: it is
grievous enough to me to have seen violences which I was unable to prevent.'

'O Joshua, Joshua!' said Redgauntlet, with a sardonic smile; 'thou light of the faithful in
the town of Dumfries and the places adjacent, wilt thou thus fall away from the truth? Hast
thou not, before us all, attempted to rescue a man from the warrant of law? Didst thou not
encourage that drunken fellow to draw his weapon--and didst thou not thyself flourish thy cudgel
in the cause? Think'st thou that the oaths of the injured Peter Peebles, and the conscientious
Cristal Nixon, besides those of such gentlemen as look on this strange scene, who not only
put on swearing as a garment, but to whom, in Custom House matters, oaths are literally meat
and drink,--dost thou not think, I say, that these men's oaths will go further than thy Yea
and Nay in this matter?'

'I will swear to anything,' said Peter. 'All is fair when it comes to an oath AD LITEM.'

'You do me foul wrong,' said the Quaker, undismayed by the general laugh. 'I encouraged no
drawing of weapons, though I attempted to move an unjust man by some use of argument--I brandished
no cudgel, although it may be that the ancient Adam struggled within me, and caused my hand
to grasp mine oaken staff firmer than usual, when I saw innocence borne down with violence.
But why talk I what is true and just to thee, who hast been a man of violence from thy youth
upwards? Let me rather speak to thee such language as thou canst comprehend. Deliver these
young men up to me,' he said, when he had led Redgauntlet a little apart from the crowd, 'and
I will not only free thee from the heavy charge of damages which thou hast incurred by thine
outrage upon my property, but I will add ransom for them and for myself. What would it profit
thee to do the youths wrong, by detaining them in captivity?'

'Mr. Geddes,' said Redgauntlet, in a tone more respectful than he had hitherto used to the
Quaker, 'your language is disinterested, and I respect the fidelity of your friendship. Perhaps
we have mistaken each other's principles and motives; but if so, we have not at present time
for explanation. Make yourself easy. I hope to raise your friend Darsie Latimer to a pitch
of eminence which you will witness with pleasure;--nay, do not attempt to answer me. The other
young man shall suffer restraint a few days, probably only a few hours,--it is not more than
due for his pragmatical interference in what concerned him not. Do you, Mr. Geddes, be so prudent
as to take your horse and leave this place, which is growing every moment more unfit for the
abode of a man of peace. You may wait the event in safety at Mount Sharon.'

'Friend,' replied Joshua, 'I cannot comply with thy advice; I will remain here, even as thy
prisoner, as thou didst but now threaten, rather than leave the youth who hath suffered by
and through me and my misfortunes, in his present state of doubtful safety. Wherefore I will
not mount my steed Solomon; neither will I turn his head towards Mount Sharon, until I see
an end of this matter.'

'A prisoner, then, you must be,' said Redgauntlet. 'I have no time to dispute the matter further
with you. But tell me for what you fix your eyes so attentively on yonder people of mine.'

'To speak the truth,' said the Quaker, 'I admire to behold among them a little wretch of a
boy called Benjie, to whom I think Satan has given the power of transporting himself wheresoever
mischief is going forward; so that it may be truly said, there is no evil in this land wherein
he hath not a finger, if not a whole hand.'

The boy, who saw their eyes fixed on him as they spoke, seemed embarrassed, slid rather desirous
of making his escape; but at a signal from Redgauntlet he advanced, assuming the sheepish look
and rustic manner with which the jackanapes covered much acuteness and roguery.

'How long have you been with the party, sirrah?' said Redgauntlet.

'Since the raid on the stake-nets,' said Benjie, with his finger in his mouth.

'And what made you follow us?'

'I dauredna stay at hame for the constables,' replied the boy.

'And what have you been doing all this time?'

'Doing, sir? I dinna ken what ye ca' doing--I have been doing naething,' said Benjie; then
seeing something in Redgauntlet's eye which was not to be trifled with, he added, 'Naething
but waiting on Maister Cristal Nixon.'

'Hum!--aye--indeed?' muttered Redgauntlet. 'Must Master Nixon bring his own retinue into the
field? This must be seen to.'

He was about to pursue his inquiry, when Nixon himself came to him with looks of anxious haste,
'The Father is come,' he whispered, 'and the gentlemen are getting together in the largest
room of the house, and they desire to see you. Yonder is your nephew, too, making a noise like
a man in Bedlam.'

'I will look to it all instantly,' said Redgauntlet. 'Is the Father lodged as I directed?'

Cristal nodded.

'Now, then, for the final trial,' said Redgauntlet. He folded his hands--looked upwards--crossed
himself--and after this act of devotion (almost the first which any one had observed him make
use of) he commanded Nixon to keep good watch--have his horses and men ready for every emergence--look
after the safe custody of the prisoners--but treat them at the same time well and civilly.
And, these orders given, he darted hastily into the house.

CHAPTER XXII

NARRATIVE CONTINUED

Redgauntlet's first course was to the chamber of his nephew. He unlocked the door, entered
the apartment, and asked what he wanted, that he made so much noise.

'I want my liberty,' said Darsie, who had wrought himself up to a pitch of passion in which
his uncle's wrath had lost its terrors. 'I desire my liberty, and to be assured of the safety
of my beloved friend, Alan Fairford, whose voice I heard but now.'

'Your liberty shall be your own within half an hour from this period--your friend shall be
also set at freedom in due time--and you yourself be permitted to have access to his place
of confinement.'

'This does not satisfy me,' said Darsie; 'I must see my friend instantly; he is here, and he
is here endangered on my account only--I have heard violent exclamations--the clash of swords.
You will gain no point with me unless I have ocular demonstration of his safety.'

'Arthur--dearest nephew,' answered Redgauntlet, 'drive me not mad! Thine own fate--that of
thy house--that of thousands--that of Britain herself, are at this moment in the scales; and
you are only occupied about the safety of a poor insignificant pettifogger!'

'He has sustained injury at your hands, then?' said Darsie, fiercely. 'I know he has; but if
so, not even our relationship shall protect you.'

'Peace, ungrateful and obstinate fool!' said Redgauntlet. Yet stay--will you be satisfied if
you see this Alan Fairford, the bundle of bombazine--this precious friend of yours--well and
sound? Will you, I say, be satisfied with seeing him in perfect safety without attempting to
speak to or converse with him?' Darsie signified his assent. 'Take hold of my arm, then,' said
Redgauntlet; 'and do you, niece Lilias, take the other; and beware; Sir Arthur, how you bear
yourself.'

Darsie was compelled to acquiesce, sufficiently aware that his uncle would permit him no interview
with a friend whose influence would certainly be used against his present earnest wishes, and
in some measure contented with the assurance of Fairford's personal safety.

Redgauntlet led them through one or two passages (for the house, as we have before said, was
very irregular, and built at different times) until they entered an apartment, where a man
with shouldered carabine kept watch at the door, but readily turned the key for their reception.
In this room they found Alan Fairford and the Quaker, apparently in deep conversation with
each other. They looked up as Redgauntlet and his party entered; and Alan pulled off his hat
and made a profound reverence, which the young lady, who recognized him,--though, masked as
she was, he could not know her,--returned with some embarrassment, arising probably from the
recollection of the bold step she had taken in visiting him.

Darsie longed to speak, but dared not. His uncle only said, 'Gentlemen, I know you are as anxious
on Mr. Darsie Latimer's account as he is upon yours. I am commissioned by him to inform you,
that he is as well as you are--I trust you will all meet soon. Meantime, although I cannot
suffer you to be at large, you shall be as well treated as is possible under your temporary
confinement.'

He passed on, without pausing to hear the answers which the lawyer and the Quaker were hastening
to prefer; and only waving his hand by way of adieu, made his exit, with the real and the seeming
lady whom he had under his charge, through a door at the upper end of the apartment, which
was fastened and guarded like that by which they entered.

Redgauntlet next led the way into a very small room; adjoining which, but divided by a partition,
was one of apparently larger dimensions; for they heard the trampling of the heavy boots of
the period, as if several persons were walking to and fro and conversing in low and anxious
whispers.

'Here,' said Redgauntlet to his nephew, as he disencumbered him from the riding-skirt and the
mask, 'I restore you to yourself, and trust you will lay aside all effeminate thoughts with
this feminine dress. Do not blush at having worn a disguise to which kings and heroes have
been reduced. It is when female craft or female cowardice find their way into a manly bosom,
that he who entertains these sentiments should take eternal shame to himself for thus having
resembled womankind. Follow me, while Lilias remains here. I will introduce you to those whom
I hope to see associated with you in the most glorious cause that hand ever drew sword in.'

Darsie paused. 'Uncle,' he said, 'my person is in your hands; but remember, my will is my own.
I will not be hurried into any resolution of importance. Remember what I have already said--what
I now repeat--that I will take no step of importance but upon conviction.'

'But canst thou be convinced, thou foolish boy, without hearing and understanding the grounds
on which we act?'

So saying he took Darsie by the arm, and walked with him to the next room--a large apartment,
partly filled with miscellaneous articles of commerce, chiefly connected with contraband trade;
where, among bales and barrels, sat, or walked to and fro, several gentlemen, whose manners
and looks seemed superior to the plain riding dresses which they wore.

There was a grave and stern anxiety upon their countenances, when, on Redgauntlet's entrance,
they drew from their separate coteries into one group around him, and saluted him with a formality
which had something in it of ominous melancholy. As Darsie looked around the circle, he thought
he could discern in it few traces of that adventurous hope which urges men upon desperate enterprises;
and began to believe that the conspiracy would dissolve of itself, without the necessity of
his placing himself in direct opposition to so violent a character as his uncle, and incurring
the hazard with which such opposition must be attended.

Mr. Redgauntlet, however, did not, or would not, see any such marks of depression of spirit
amongst his coadjutors, but met them with cheerful countenance, and a warm greeting of welcome.
'Happy to meet you here, my lord,' he said, bowing low to a slender young man. 'I trust you
come with the pledges of your noble father, of B--, and all that loyal house.--Sir Richard,
what news in the west? I am told you had two hundred men on foot to have joined when the fatal
retreat from Derby was commenced. When the White Standard is again displayed, it shall not
be turned back so easily, either by the force of its enemies, or the falsehood of its friends.--Doctor
Grumball, I bow to the representative of Oxford, the mother of learning and loyalty.--Pengwinion,
you Cornish chough, has this good wind blown you north?--Ah, my brave Cambro-Britons, when
was Wales last in the race of honour?'

Such and such-like compliments he dealt around, which were in general answered by silent bows;
but when he saluted one of his own countrymen by the name of MacKellar, and greeted Maxwell
of Summertrees by that of Pate-in-Peril, the latter replied, 'that if Pate were not a fool,
he would be Pate-in-Safety;' and the former, a thin old gentle-man, in tarnished embroidery,
said bluntly, 'Aye, troth, Redgauntlet, I am here just like yourself; I have little to lose--they
that took my land the last time, may take my life this; and that is all I care about it.'

The English gentlemen, who were still in possession of their paternal estates, looked doubtfully
on each other, and there was something whispered among them of the fox which had lost his tail.

Redgauntlet hastened to address them. 'I think, my lords and gentlemen,' he said, 'that I can
account for something like sadness which has crept upon an assembly gathered together for so
noble a purpose. Our numbers seem, when thus assembled, too small and inconsiderable to shake
the firm-seated usurpation of a half-century. But do not count us by what we are in thew and
muscle, but by what our summons can do among our countrymen. In this small party are those
who have power to raise battalions, and those who have wealth to pay them. And do not believe
our friends who are absent are cold or indifferent to the cause. Let us once light the signal,
and it will be hailed by all who retain love for the Stuart, and by all--a more numerous body--who
hate the Elector. Here I have letters from'--

Sir Richard Glendale interrupted the speaker. 'We all confide, Redgauntlet, in your valour
and skill--we admire your perseverance; and probably nothing short of your strenuous exertions,
and the emulation awakened by your noble and disinterested conduct, could have brought so many
of us, the scattered remnant of a disheartened party, to meet together once again in solemn
consultation; for I take it, gentlemen,' he said, looking round, 'this is only a consultation.'

'Nothing more,' said the young lord.

'Nothing more,' said Doctor Grumball, shaking his large academical peruke.

And, 'Only a consultation,' was echoed by the others.

Redgauntlet bit his lip. 'I had hopes,' he said, 'that the discourses I have held with most
of you, from time to time, had ripened into more maturity than your words imply, and that we
were here to execute as well as to deliberate; and for this we stand prepared. I can raise
five hundred men with my whistle.'

'Five hundred men!' said one of the Welsh squires; 'Cot bless us! and pray you, what cood could
five hundred men do?'

'All that the priming does for the cannon, Mr. Meredith,' answered Redgauntlet; 'it will enable
us to seize Carlisle, and you know what our friends have engaged for in that case.'

'Yes--but,' said the young nobleman, 'you must not hurry us on too fast, Mr. Redgauntlet; we
are all, I believe, as sincere and truehearted in this business as you are, but we will not
be driven forward blindfold. We owe caution to ourselves and our families, as well as to those
whom we are empowered to represent on this occasion.'

'Who hurries you, my lord? Who is it that would drive this meeting forward blindfold? I do
not understand your lordship,' said Redgauntlet.

'Nay,' said Sir Richard Glendale, 'at least do not let us fall under our old reproach of disagreeing
among ourselves. What my lord means, Redgauntlet, is, that we have this morning heard it is
uncertain whether you could even bring that body of men whom you count upon; your countryman,
Mr. MacKellar, seemed, just before you came in, to doubt whether your people would rise in
any force, unless you could produce the authority of your nephew.'

'I might ask,' said Redgauntlet,' what right MacKellar, or any one, has to doubt my being able
to accomplish what I stand pledged for? But our hopes consist in our unity. Here stands my
nephew. Gentlemen, I present to you my kinsman, Sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet of that Ilk.'

'Gentlemen,' said Darsie, with a throbbing bosom, for he felt the crisis a very painful one,
'Allow me to say, that I suspend expressing my sentiments on the important subject under discussion
until I have heard those of the present meeting.'

'Proceed in your deliberations, gentlemen,' said Redgauntlet; 'I will show my nephew such reasons
for acquiescing in the result, as will entirely remove any scruples which may hang around his
mind.'

Dr. Grumball now coughed, 'shook his ambrosial curls,' and addressed the assembly.

'The principles of Oxford,' he said,' are well understood, since she was the last to resign
herself to the Arch-Usurper,--since she has condemned, by her sovereign authority, the blasphemous,
atheistical, and anarchical tenets of Locke, and other deluders of the public mind. Oxford
will give men, money and countenance, to the cause of the rightful monarch. But we have, been
often deluded by foreign powers, who have availed themselves of our zeal to stir up civil dissensions,
in Britain, not for the advantage of our blessed though banished monarch, but to stir up disturbances
by which they might profit, while we, their tools, are sure to be ruined. Oxford, therefore,
will not rise, unless our sovereign comes in person to claim our allegiance, in which case,
God forbid we should refuse him our best obedience.'

'It is a very cood advice,' said Mr. Meredith.

'In troth,' said Sir Richard Glendale, 'it is the very keystone of our enterprise, and the
only condition upon which I myself and others could ever have dreamt of taking up arms. No
insurrection which has not Charles Edward himself at its head, will, ever last longer than
till a single foot company of redcoats march to disperse it.'

'This is my own opinion, and that of all my family,' said the young nobleman already mentioned;
'and I own I am somewhat surprised at being summoned to attend a dangerous rendezvous such
as this, before something certain could have been stated to us on this most important preliminary
point.'

'Pardon me, my lord,' said Redgauntlet; 'I have not been so unjust either to myself or my friends--I
had no means of communicating to our distant confederates (without the greatest risk of discovery)
what is known to some of my honourable friends. As courageous, and as resolved, as when, twenty
years since, he threw himself into the wilds of Moidart, Charles Edward has instantly complied
with the wishes of his faithful subjects. Charles Edward is in this country--Charles Edward
is in this house!--Charles Edward waits but your present decision, to receive the homage of
those who have ever called themselves his loyal liegemen. He that would now turn his coat,
and change his note, must do so under the eye of his sovereign.'

There was a deep pause. Those among the conspirators whom mere habit, or a desire of preserving
consistency, had engaged in the affair, now saw with terror their retreat cut off; and others,
who at a distance had regarded the proposed enterprise as hopeful, trembled when the moment
of actually embarking in it was thus unexpectedly and almost inevitably precipitated.

'How now, my lords and gentlemen!' said Redgauntlet; is it delight and rapture that keep you
thus silent? where are the eager welcomes that should be paid to your rightful king, who a
second time confides his person to the care of his subjects, undeterred by the hairbreadth
escapes and severe privations of his former expedition? I hope there is no gentleman here that
is not ready to redeem, in his prince's presence, the pledge of fidelity which he offered in
his absence.'

'I, at least,' said the young nobleman resolutely, and laying his hand on his sword, 'will
not be that coward. If Charles is come to these shores, I will be the first to give him welcome,
and to devote my life and fortune to his service.'

'Before Cot,' said Mr. Meredith, 'I do not see that Mr. Redgauntlet has left us anything else
to do.'

'Stay,' said Summertrees, 'there is yet one other question. Has he brought any of those Irish
rapparees with him, who broke the neck of our last glorious affair?'

'Not a man of them,' said Redgauntlet.

'I trust,' said Dr. Grumball, 'that there are no Catholic priests in his company. I would not
intrude on the private conscience of my sovereign, but, as an unworthy son of the Church of
England, it is my duty to consider her security.'

'Not a Popish dog or cat is there, to bark or mew about his Majesty,' said Redgauntlet. 'Old
Shaftesbury himself could not wish a prince's person more secure from Popery--which may not
be the worst religion in the world, notwithstanding. Any more doubts, gentlemen? can no more
plausible reasons be discovered for postponing the payment of our duty, and discharge of our
oaths and engagements? Meantime your king waits your declaration--by my faith he hath but a
frozen reception!'

'Redgauntlet,' said Sir Richard Glendale, calmly, 'your reproaches shall not goad me into anything
of which my reason disapproves. That I respect my engagement as much as you do, is evident,
since I am here, ready to support it with the best blood in my veins. But has the king really
come hither entirely unattended?'

'He has no man with him but young ------, as aide de camp, and a single valet de chambre.'

'No MAN--but, Redgauntlet, as you are a gentleman, has he no woman with him?'

Redgauntlet cast his eyes on the ground and replied, 'I am sorry to say--he has.'

The company looked at each other, and remained silent for a moment. At length Sir Richard proceeded.
'I need not repeat to you, Mr. Redgauntlet, what is the well-grounded opinion of his Majesty's
friends concerning that most unhappy connexion there is but one sense and feeling amongst us
upon the subject. I must conclude that our humble remonstrances were communicated by you, sir,
to the king?'

'In the same strong terms in which they were couched,' replied Redgauntlet. 'I love his Majesty's
cause more than I fear his displeasure.'

'But, apparently, our humble expostulation has produced no effect. This lady, who has crept
into his bosom, has a sister in the Elector of Hanover's court, and yet we are well assured
that our most private communication is placed in her keeping.'

'VARIUM ET MUTABILE SEMPER FEMINA,' said Dr. Grumball.

'She puts his secrets into her work-bag,' said Maxwell; 'and out they fly whenever she opens
it. If I must hang, I would wish it to be in somewhat a better rope than the string of a lady's
hussey.'

'Are you, too, turning dastard, Maxwell?' said Redgauntlet, in a whisper.

'Not I,' said Maxwell; 'let us fight for it, and let them win and wear us; but to be betrayed
by a brimstone like that'--

'Be temperate, gentlemen,' said Redgauntlet; 'the foible of which you complain so heavily has
always been that of kings and heroes; which I feel strongly confident the king will surmount,
upon the humble entreaty of his best servants, and when he sees them ready to peril their all
in his cause, upon the slight condition of his resigning the society of a female favourite,
of whom I have seen reason to think he hath been himself for some time wearied. But let us
not press upon him rashly with our well-meant zeal. He has a princely will as becomes his princely
birth, and we, gentlemen, who are royalists, should be the last to take advantage of circumstances
to limit its exercise. I am as much surprised and hurt as you can be, to find that he has made
her the companion of this journey, increasing every chance of treachery and detection. But
do not let us insist upon a sacrifice so humiliating, while he has scarce placed a foot upon
the beach of his kingdom. Let us act generously by our sovereign; and when we have shown what
we will do for him, we shall be able, with better face, to state what it is we expect him to
concede.'

'Indeed, I think it is but a pity,' said MacKellar, 'when so many pretty gentlemen are got
together, that they should part without the flash of a sword among them.'

'I should be of that gentleman's opinion,' said Lord ------, 'had I nothing to lose but my
life; but I frankly own, that the conditions on which our family agreed to join having been,
in this instance, left unfulfilled, I will not peril the whole fortunes of our house on the
doubtful fidelity of an artful woman.'

'I am sorry to see your lordship,' said Redgauntlet, 'take a course which is more likely to
secure your house's wealth than to augment its honours.'

'How am I to understand your language, sir?' said the young nobleman, haughtily.

'Nay, gentlemen,' said Dr Grumball, interposing, 'do not let friends quarrel; we are all zealous
for the cause--but truly, although I know the license claimed by the great in such matters,
and can, I hope, make due allowance, there is, I may say, an indecorum in a prince who comes
to claim the allegiance of the Church of England, arriving on such an errand with such a companion--SI
NON CASTE, CAUTE TAMEN.'

'I wonder how the Church of England came to be so heartily attached to his merry old namesake,'
said Redgauntlet.

Sir Richard Glendale then took up the question, as one whose authority and experience gave
him right to speak with much weight.

'We have no leisure for hesitation,' he said; 'it is full time that we decide what course we
are to hold. I feel as much as you, Mr. Redgauntlet, the delicacy of capitulating with our
sovereign in his present condition. But I must also think of the total ruin of the cause, the
confiscation and bloodshed which will take place among his adherents, and all through the infatuation
with which he adheres to a woman who is the pensionary of the present minister, as she was
for years Sir Robert Walpole's. Let his Majesty send her back to the continent, and the sword
on which I now lay my hand shall instantly be unsheathed, and, I trust, many hundred others
at the same moment.'

The other persons present testified their unanimous acquiescence in what Sir Richard Glendale
had said.

'I see you have taken your resolutions, gentlemen,' said Redgauntlet; 'unwisely I think, because
I believe that, by softer and more generous proceedings, you would have been more likely to
carry a point which I think as desirable as you do. But what is to be done if Charles should
refuse, with the inflexibility of his grandfather, to comply with this request of yours? Do
you mean to abandon him to his fate?'

'God forbid!' said Sir Richard, hastily; 'and God forgive you, Mr. Redgauntlet, for breathing
such a thought. No! I for one will, with all duty and humility, see him safe back to his vessel,
and defend him with my life against whosoever shall assail him. But when I have seen his sails
spread, my next act will be to secure, if I can, my own safety, by retiring to my house; or,
if I find our engagement, as is too probable, has taken wind, by surrendering myself to the
next Justice of Peace, and giving security that hereafter I shall live quiet, and submit to
the ruling powers.'

Again the rest of the persons present intimated their agreement in opinion with the speaker.

'Well, gentlemen,' said Redgauntlet, 'it is not for me to oppose the opinion of every one;
and I must do you the justice to say, that the king has, in the present instance, neglected
a condition of your agreement which was laid before him in very distinct terms. The question
now is, who is to acquaint him with the result of this conference; for I presume you would
not wait on him in a body to make the proposal that he should dismiss a person from his family
as the price of your allegiance.'

'I think Mr. Redgauntlet should make the explanation, said Lord--. 'As he has, doubtless, done
justice to our remonstrances by communicating them to the king, no one can, with such propriety
and force, state the natural and inevitable consequence of their being neglected.'

'Now, I think,' said Redgauntlet, 'that those who make the objection should state it, for I
am confident the king will hardly believe, on less authority than that of the heir of the loyal
House of B--, that he is the first to seek an evasion of his pledge to join him.'

'An evasion, sir!' repeated Lord ------, fiercely, 'I have borne too much from you already,
and this I will not endure. Favour me with your company to the downs.'

Redgauntlet laughed scornfully, and was about to follow the fiery young man, when Sir Richard
again interposed. 'Are we to exhibit,' he said, 'the last symptoms of the dissolution of our
party, by turning our swords against each other? Be patient, Lord ------; in such conferences
as this, much must pass unquestioned which might brook challenge elsewhere. There is a privilege
of party as of parliament--men cannot, in emergency, stand upon picking phrases. Gentlemen,
if you will extend your confidence in me so far, I will wait upon his Majesty, and I hope my
Lord ------ and Mr. Redgauntlet will accompany me. I trust the explanation of this unpleasant
matter will prove entirely satisfactory, and that we shall find ourselves at liberty to render
our homage to our sovereign without reserve, when I for one will be the first to peril all
in his just quarrel.'

Redgauntlet at once stepped forward. 'My lord,' he said, 'if my zeal made me say anything in
the slightest degree offensive, I wish it unsaid, and ask your pardon. A gentleman can do no more.'

'I could not have asked Mr. Redgauntlet to do so much,' said the young nobleman, willingly
accepting the hand which Redgauntlet offered. 'I know no man living from whom I could take
so much reproof without a sense of degradation as from himself.'

'Let me then hope, my lord, that you will go with Sir Richard and me to the presence. Your
warm blood will heat our zeal--our colder resolves will temper yours.

The young lord smiled, and shook his head. 'Alas! Mr. Redgauntlet,' he said, 'I am ashamed
to say, that in zeal you surpass us all. But I will not refuse this mission, provided you will
permit Sir Arthur, your nephew, also to accompany us.'

'My nephew?' said Redgauntlet, and seemed to hesitate, then added, 'Most certainly. I trust,'
he said, looking at Darsie, 'he will bring to his prince's presence such sentiments as fit
the occasion.'

It seemed however to Darsie, that his uncle would rather have left him behind, had he not feared
that he might in that case have been influenced by, or might perhaps himself influence, the
unresolved confederates with whom he must have associated during his absence.

'I will go,' said Redgauntlet, 'and request admission.'

In a moment after he returned, and without speaking, motioned for the young nobleman to advance.
He did so, followed by Sir Richard Glendale and Darsie, Redgauntlet himself bringing up the
rear. A short passage, and a few steps, brought them to the door of the temporary presence-chamber,
in which the Royal Wanderer was to receive their homage. It was the upper loft of one of those
cottages which made additions to the old inn, poorly furnished, dusty, and in disorder; for,
rash as the enterprise might be considered, they had been still careful not to draw the attention
of strangers by any particular attentions to the personal accommodation of the prince. He was
seated, when the deputies, as they might be termed, of his remaining adherents entered; and
as he rose, and came forward and bowed, in acceptance of their salutation, it was with a dignified
courtesy which at once supplied whatever was deficient in external pomp, and converted the
wretched garret into a saloon worthy of the occasion.

It is needless to add that he was the same personage already introduced in the character of
Father Buonaventure, by which name he was distinguished at Fairladies. His dress was not different
from what he then wore, excepting that he had a loose riding-coat of camlet, under which he
carried an efficient cut-and-thrust sword, instead of his walking rapier, and also a pair of
pistols.

Redgauntlet presented to him successively the young Lord ------, and his kinsman, Sir Arthur
Darsie Redgauntlet, who trembled as, bowing and kissing his hand, he found himself surprised
into what might be construed an act of high treason, which yet he saw no safe means to avoid.

Sir Richard Glendale seemed personally known to Charles Edward, who received him with a mixture
of dignity and affection, and seemed to sympathize with the tears which rushed into that gentleman's
eyes as he bade his Majesty welcome to his native kingdom.

'Yes, my good Sir Richard,' said the unfortunate prince in a tone melancholy, yet resolved,
'Charles Edward is with his faithful friends once more--not, perhaps, with his former gay hopes
which undervalued danger, but with the same determined contempt of the worst which can befall
him, in claiming his own rights and those of his country.'

'I rejoice, sire--and yet, alas! I must also grieve, to see you once more on the British shores,'
said Sir Richard Glendale, and stopped short--a tumult of contradictory feelings preventing
his further utterance.

'It is the call of my faithful and suffering people which alone could have induced me to take
once more the sword in my hand. For my own part, Sir Richard, when I have reflected how many
of my loyal and devoted friends perished by the sword and by proscription, or died indigent
and neglected in a foreign land, I have often, sworn that no view to my personal aggrandizement
should again induce me to agitate a title which has cost my followers so dear. But since so
many men of worth and honour conceive the cause of England and Scotland to be linked with that
of Charles Stuart, I must follow their brave example, and, laying aside all other considerations,
once more stand forward as their deliverer. I am, however, come hither upon your invitation;
and as you are so completely acquainted with circumstances to which my absence must necessarily
have rendered me a stranger, I must be a mere tool in the hands of my friends. I know well
I never can refer myself implicitly to more loyal hearts or wiser heads, than Herries Redgauntlet,
and Sir Richard Glendale. Give me your advice, then, how we are to proceed, and decide upon
the fate of Charles Edward.'

Redgauntlet looked at Sir Richard, as if to say, 'Can you press any additional or unpleasant
condition at a moment like this?' And the other shook his head and looked down, as if his resolution
was unaltered, and yet as feeling all the delicacy of the situation.

There was a silence, which was broken by the unfortunate representative of an unhappy dynasty,
with some appearance of irritation. 'This is strange, gentlemen,' he said; 'you have sent for
me from the bosom of my family, to head an adventure of doubt and danger; and when I come,
your own minds seem to be still irresolute. I had not expected this on the part of two such men.'

'For me, sire,' said Redgauntlet, 'the steel of my sword is not truer than the temper of my mind.'

'My Lord ------'s and mine are equally so,' said Sir Richard; 'but you had in charge, Mr. Redgauntlet,
to convey our request to his Majesty, coupled with certain conditions.'

'And I discharged my duty to his Majesty and to you,' said Redgauntlet.

'I looked at no condition, gentlemen,' said their king, with dignity,' save that which called
me here to assert my rights in person. That I have fulfilled at no common risk. Here I stand
to keep my word, and I expect of you to be true to yours.'

'There was, or should have been, something more than that in our proposal, please your Majesty,'
said Sir Richard. 'There was a condition annexed to it.'

'I saw it not,' said Charles, interrupting him. 'Out of tenderness towards the noble hearts
of whom I think so highly, I would neither see nor read anything which could lessen them in
my love and my esteem. Conditions can have no part betwixt prince and subject.'

'Sire,' said Redgauntlet, kneeling on one knee, 'I see from Sir Richard's countenance he deems
it my fault that your Majesty seems ignorant of what your subjects desired that I should communicate
to your Majesty. For Heaven's sake! for the sake of all my past services and sufferings, leave
not such a stain upon my honour! The note, Number D, of which this is a copy, referred to the
painful subject to which Sir Richard again directs your attention.'

'You press upon me, gentlemen,' said the prince, colouring highly,' recollections, which, as
I hold them most alien to your character, I would willingly have banished from my memory. I
did not suppose that my loyal subjects would think so poorly of me, as to use my depressed
circumstances as a reason for forcing themselves into my domestic privacies, and stipulating
arrangements with their king regarding matters in which the meanest minds claim the privilege
of thinking for themselves. In affairs of state and public policy, I will ever be guided as
becomes a prince, by the advice of my wisest counsellors; in those which regard my private
affections and my domestic arrangements, I claim the same freedom of will which I allow to
all my subjects, and without which a crown were less worth wearing than a beggar's bonnet.'

'May it please your Majesty,' said Sir Richard Glendale, 'I see it must be my lot to speak
unwilling truths; but believe me, I do so with as much profound respect as deep regret. It
is true, we have called you to head a mighty undertaking, and that your Majesty, preferring
honour to safety, and the love of your country to your own ease, has condescended to become
our leader. But we also pointed out as a necessary and indispensable preparatory step to the
achievement of our purpose--and, I must say, as a positive condition of our engaging in it--that
an individual, supposed,--I presume not to guess how truly,--to have your Majesty's more intimate
confidence, and believed, I will not say on absolute proof but upon the most pregnant suspicion,
to be capable of betraying that confidence to the Elector of Hanover, should be removed from
your royal household and society.'

'This is too insolent, Sir Richard!' said Charles Edward. 'Have you inveigled me into your
power to bait me in this unseemly manner? And you, Redgauntlet, why did you suffer matters
to come to such a point as this, without making me more distinctly aware what insults were
to be practised on me?'

'My gracious prince,' said Redgauntlet, 'I am so far to blame in this, that I did not think
so slight an impediment as that of a woman's society could have really interrupted an undertaking
of this magnitude. I am a plain man, sire, and speak but bluntly; I could not have dreamt but
what, within the first five minutes of this interview, either Sir Richard and his friends would
have ceased to insist upon a condition so ungrateful to your Majesty, or that your Majesty
would have sacrificed this unhappy attachment to the sound advice, or even to the over-anxious
suspicions, of so many faithful subjects. I saw no entanglement in such a difficulty which
on either side might not have been broken through like a cobweb.'

'You were mistaken, sir,' said Charles Edward, 'entirely mistaken--as much so as you are at
this moment, when you think in your heart my refusal to comply with this insolent proposition
is dictated by a childish and romantic passion for an individual, I tell you, sir, I could
part with that person to-morrow, without an instant's regret--that I have had thoughts of dismissing
her from my court, for reasons known to myself; but that I will never betray my rights as a
sovereign and a man, by taking this step to secure the favour of any one, or to purchase that
allegiance which, if you owe it to me at all, is due to me as my birthright.'

'I am sorry for this,' said Redgauntlet; 'I hope both your Majesty and Sir Richard will reconsider
your resolutions, or forbear this discussion, in a conjuncture so pressing. I trust your Majesty
will recollect that you are on hostile ground; that our preparations cannot have so far escaped
notice as to permit us now with safety to retreat from our purpose; insomuch, that it is with
the deepest anxiety of heart I foresee even danger to your own royal person, unless you can
generously give your subjects the satisfaction, which Sir Richard seems to think they are obstinate
in demanding.'

'And deep indeed your anxiety ought to be,' said the prince. 'Is it in these circumstances
of personal danger in which you expect to overcome a resolution, which is founded on a sense
of what is due to me as a man or a prince? If the axe and scaffold were ready before the windows
of Whitehall, I would rather tread the same path with my great-grandfather, than concede the
slightest point in which my honour is concerned.'

He spoke these words with a determined accent, and looked around him on the company, all of
whom (excepting Darsie, who saw, he thought, a fair period to a most perilous enterprise) seemed
in deep anxiety and confusion. At length, Sir Richard spoke in a solemn and melancholy tone.
'If the safety,' he said, 'of poor Richard Glendale were alone concerned in this matter, I
have never valued my life enough to weigh it against the slightest point of your Majesty's
service. But I am only a messenger--a commissioner, who must execute my trust, and upon whom
a thousand voices will cry, Curse and woe, if I do it not with fidelity. All of your adherents,
even Redgauntlet himself, see certain ruin to this enterprise--the greatest danger to your
Majesty's person--the utter destruction of all your party and friends, if they insist not on
the point, which, unfortunately, your Majesty is so unwilling to concede. I speak it with a
heart full of anguish--with a tongue unable to utter my emotions--but it must be spoken--the
fatal truth--that if your royal goodness cannot yield to us a boon which we hold necessary
to our security and your own, your Majesty with one word disarms ten thousand men, ready to
draw their swords in your behalf; or, to speak yet more plainly, you annihilate even the semblance
of a royal party in Great Britain.'

'And why do you not add,' said the prince, scornfully, 'that the men who have been ready to
assume arms in my behalf, will atone for their treason to the Elector, by delivering me up
to the fate for which so many proclamations have destined me? Carry my head to St. James's,
gentlemen; you will do a more acceptable and a more honourable action, than, having inveigled
me into a situation which places me so completely in your power, to dishonour yourselves by
propositions which dishonour me.

'My God, sire!' exclaimed Sir Richard, clasping his hands together, in impatience, 'of what
great and inexpiable crime can your Majesty's ancestors have 'been guilty, that they have been
punished by the infliction of judicial blindness on their whole generation!--Come, my Lord
------, we must to our friends.'

'By your leave, Sir Richard,' said the young nobleman, 'not till we, have learned what measures
can be taken for his Majesty's personal safety.'

'Care not for me, young man,' said Charles Edward; 'when I was in the society of Highland robbers
and cattle-drovers, I was safer than I now hold myself among the representatives of the best
blood in England. Farewell, gentlemen--I will shift for myself.'

'This must never be,' said Redgauntlet. 'Let me that brought you to the point of danger, at
least provide for your safe retreat.'

So saying, he hastily left the apartment, followed by his nephew. The Wanderer, averting his
eyes from Lord ------ and Sir Richard Glendale, threw himself into a seat at the upper end
of the apartment, while they, in much anxiety, stood together, at a distance from him, and
conversed in whispers.

CHAPTER XXIII

NARRATIVE CONTINUED

When Redgauntlet left the room, in haste and discomposure, the first person he met on the stair,
and indeed so close by the door of the apartment that Darsie thought he must have been listening
there, was his attendant Nixon.

'What the devil do you here?' he said, abruptly and sternly.

'I wait your orders,' said Nixon. 'I hope all's right!--excuse my zeal.'

'All is wrong, sir. Where is the seafaring fellow--Ewart--what do you call him?'

'Nanty Ewart, sir. I will carry your commands,' said Nixon.

'I will deliver them myself to him,' said Redgauntlet; call him hither.'

'But should your honour leave the presence?' said Nixon, still lingering.

''Sdeath, sir, do you prate to me?' said Redgauntlet, bending his brows. 'I, sir, transact
my own business; you, I am told, act by a ragged deputy.'

Without further answer, Nixon departed, rather disconcerted, as it seemed to Darsie.

'That dog turns insolent and lazy,' said Redgauntlet; but I must bear with him for a while.'

A moment after, Nixon returned with Ewart.

'Is this the smuggling fellow?' demanded Redgauntlet. Nixon nodded.

'Is he sober now? he was brawling anon.'

'Sober enough for business,' said Nixon.

'Well then, hark ye, Ewart;--man your boat with your best hands, and have her by the pier--get
your other fellows on board the brig--if you have any cargo left, throw it overboard; it shall
be all paid, five times over--and be ready for a start to Wales or the Hebrides, or perhaps
for Sweden or Norway.'

Ewart answered sullenly enough, 'Aye, aye, sir.'

'Go with him, Nixon,' said Redgauntlet, forcing himself to speak with some appearance of cordiality
to the servant with whom he was offended; 'see he does his duty.'

Ewart left the house sullenly, followed by Nixon. The sailor was just in that species of drunken
humour which made him jealous, passionate, and troublesome, without showing any other disorder
than that of irritability. As he walked towards the beach he kept muttering to himself, but
in such a tone that his companion lost not a word, 'Smuggling fellow--Aye, smuggler--and, start
your cargo into the sea--and be ready to start for the Hebrides, or Sweden--or the devil, I
suppose. Well, and what if I said in answer--Rebel, Jacobite--traitor; I'll make you and your
d----d confederates walk the plank--I have seen better men do it--half a score of a morning--when
I was across the Line.'

'D--d unhandsome terms those Redgauntlet used to you, brother.' said Nixon.

'Which do you mean?' said Ewart, starting, and recollecting himself. 'I have been at my old
trade of thinking aloud, have I?'

'No matter,' answered Nixon, 'none but a friend heard you. You cannot have forgotten how Redgauntlet
disarmed you this morning.'

'Why, I would bear no malice about that--only he is so cursedly high and saucy,' said Ewart.

'And then,' said Nixon,'I know you for a true-hearted Protestant.'

'That I am, by G--,' said Ewart. 'No, the Spaniards could never get my religion from me.'

'And a friend to King George, and the Hanover line of succession,' said Nixon, still walking
and speaking very slow.

'You may swear I am, excepting in the way of business, as Turnpenny says. I like King George,
but I can't afford to pay duties.'

'You are outlawed, I believe,' said Nixon.

'Am I?--faith, I believe I am,' said Ewart. 'I wish I were INLAWED again with all my heart.
But come along, we must get all ready for our peremptory gentleman, I suppose.'

'I will teach you a better trick,' said Nixon. 'There is a bloody pack of rebels yonder.'

'Aye, we all know that,' said the smuggler; 'but the snowball's melting, I think.'

'There is some one yonder, whose head is worth--thirty thousand--pounds--of sterling money,'
said Nixon, pausing between each word, as if to enforce the magnificence of the sum.

'And what of that?' said Ewart, quickly.

'Only that, instead of lying by the pier with your men on their oars, if you will just carry
your boat on board just now, and take no notice of any signal from the shore, by G--d, Nanty
Ewart. I will make a man of you for life!'

'Oh ho! then the Jacobite gentry are not so safe as they think themselves?' said Nanty.

'In an hour or two,' replied Nixon, 'they will be made safer in Carlisle Castle.'

'The devil they will!' said Ewart; 'and you have been the informer, I suppose?'

'Yes; I have been ill paid for my service among the Redgauntlets--have scarce got dog's wages--and
been treated worse than ever dog was used. I have the old fox and his cubs in the same trap
now, Nanty; and we'll see how a certain young lady will look then. You see I am frank with
you, Nanty.'

'And I will be as frank with you,' said the smuggler. 'You are a d--d old scoundrel--traitor
to the man whose bread you eat! Me help to betray poor devils, that have been so often betrayed
myself! Not if they were a hundred Popes, Devils, and Pretenders. I will back and tell them
their danger--they are part of cargo--regularly invoiced--put under my charge by the owners--I'll
back'--

'You are not stark mad?' said Nixon, who now saw he had miscalculated in supposing Nanty's
wild ideas of honour and fidelity could be shaken even by resentment, or by his Protestant
partialities. 'You shall not go back--it is all a joke.'

'I'll back to Redgauntlet, and see whether it is a joke he will laugh at.'

'My life is lost if you do,' said Nixon--'hear reason.'

They were in a clump or cluster of tall furze at the moment they were speaking, about half-way
between the pier and the house, but not in a direct line, from which Nixon, whose object it
was to gain time, had induced Ewart to diverge insensibly.

He now saw the necessity of taking a desperate resolution. 'Hear reason,' he said; and added,
as Nanty still endeavoured to pass him, 'Or else hear this!' discharging a pocket-pistol into
the unfortunate man's body.

Nanty staggered, but kept his feet. 'It has cut my back-bone asunder,' he said; 'you have done
me the last good office, and I will not die ungrateful.'

As he uttered the last words, he collected his remaining strength, stood firm for an instant,
drew his hanger, and, fetching a stroke with both hands, cut Cristal Nixon down. The blow,
struck with all the energy of a desperate and dying man, exhibited a force to which Ewart's
exhausted frame might have seemed inadequate;--it cleft the hat which the wretch wore, though
secured by a plate of iron within the lining, bit deep into his skull, and there left a fragment
of the weapon, which was broke by the fury of the blow.

One of the seamen of the lugger, who strolled up attracted by the firing of the pistol, though
being a small one the report was very trifling, found both the unfortunate men stark dead.
Alarmed at what he saw, which he conceived to have been the consequence of some unsuccessful
engagement betwixt his late commander and a revenue officer (for Nixon chanced not to be personally
known to him) the sailor hastened back to the boat, in order to apprise his comrades of Nanty's
fate, and to advise them to take off themselves and the vessel.

Meantime Redgauntlet, having, as we have seen, dispatched Nixon for the purpose of securing
a retreat for the unfortunate Charles, in case of extremity, returned to the apartment where
he had left the Wanderer. He now found him alone.

'Sir Richard Glendale,' said the unfortunate prince, 'with his young friend, has gone to consult
their adherents now in the house. Redgauntlet, my friend, I will not blame you for the circumstances
in which I find myself, though I am at once placed in danger, and rendered contemptible. But
you ought to have stated to me more strongly the weight which these gentlemen attached to their
insolent proposition. You should have told me that no compromise would have any effect--that
they desire not a prince to govern them, but one, on the contrary, over whom they were to exercise
restraint on all occasions, from the highest affairs of the state, down to the most intimate
and private concerns of his own privacy, which the most ordinary men desire to keep secret
and sacred from interference.'

'God knows,' said Redgauntlet, in much agitation, 'I acted for the best when I pressed your
Majesty to come hither--I never thought that your Majesty, at such a crisis, would have scrupled,
when a kingdom was in view, to sacrifice an attachment, which'--

'Peace, sir!' said Charles; 'it is not for you to estimate my feelings upon such a subject.'

Redgauntlet coloured high, and bowed profoundly. 'At least,' he resumed, 'I hoped that some
middle way might be found, and it shall--and must.--Come with me, nephew. We will to these
gentlemen, and I am confident I will bring back heart-stirring tidings.'

'I will do much to comply with them, Redgauntlet. I am loath, having again set my foot on British
land, to quit it without a blow for my right. But this which they demand of me is a degradation,
and compliance is impossible.'

Redgauntlet, followed by his nephew, the unwilling spectator of this extraordinary scene, left
once more the apartment of the adventurous Wanderer, and was met on the top of the stairs by
Joe Crackenthorp. 'Where are the other gentlemen?' he said.

'Yonder, in the west barrack,' answered Joe; 'but Master Ingoldsby,'--that was the name by
which Redgauntlet was most generally known in Cumberland,--'I wish to say to you that I must
put yonder folk together in one room.'

'What folk?' said Redgauntlet, impatiently.

'Why, them prisoner stranger folk, as you bid Cristal Nixon look after. Lord love you! this
is a large house enow, but we cannot have separate lock-ups for folk, as they have in Newgate
or in Bedlam. Yonder's a mad beggar, that is to be a great man when he wins a lawsuit, Lord
help him!--Yonder's a Quaker and a lawyer charged with a riot; and, ecod, I must make one key
and one lock keep them, for we are chokeful, and you have sent off old Nixon that could have
given one some help in this confusion. Besides, they take up every one a room, and call for
naughts on earth,--excepting the old man, who calls lustily enough,--but he has not a penny
to pay shot.'

'Do as thou wilt with them,' said Redgauntlet, who had listened impatiently to his statement;
'so thou dost but keep them from getting out and making some alarm in the country, I care not.'

'A Quaker and a lawyer!' said Darsie. 'This must be Fairford and Geddes.--Uncle, I must request
of you'--

'Nay, nephew,' interrupted Redgauntlet, 'this is no time for asking questions. You shall yourself
decide upon their fate in the course of an hour--no harm whatever is designed them.'

So saying, he hurried towards the place where the Jacobite gentlemen were holding their council,
and Darsie followed him, in the hope that the obstacle which had arisen to the prosecution
of their desperate adventure would prove insurmountable and spare him the necessity of a dangerous
and violent rupture with his uncle. The discussions among them were very eager; the more daring
part of the conspirators, who had little but life to lose, being desirous to proceed at all
hazards; while the others, whom a sense of honour and a hesitation to disavow long-cherished
principles had brought forward, were perhaps not ill satisfied to have a fair apology for declining
an adventure, into which they had entered with more of reluctance than zeal.

Meanwhile Joe Crackenthorp, availing himself of the hasty permission attained from Redgauntlet,
proceeded to assemble in one apartment those whose safe custody had been thought necessary;
and, without much considering the propriety of the matter, he selected for the common place
of confinement, the room which Lilias had, since her brother's departure, occupied alone. It
had a strong lock, and was double-hinged, which probably led to the preference assigned to
it, as a place of security.

Into this, Joe, with little ceremony, and a good deal of noise, introduced the Quaker and Fairford;
the first descanting on the immorality, the other on the illegality, of his proceedings; and
he turned a deaf ear both to the one and the other. Next he pushed in, almost in headlong fashion,
the unfortunate litigant, who, having made some resistance at the threshold, had received a
violent thrust in consequence, and came rushing forward, like a ram in the act of charging,
with such impetus as must have carried him to the top of the room, and struck the cocked hat
which sat perched on the top of his tow wig against Miss Redgauntlet's person, had not the
honest Quaker interrupted his career by seizing him by the collar, and bringing him to a stand.
'Friend,' said he, with the real good-breeding which so often subsists independently of ceremony,
'thou art no company for that young person; she is, thou seest, frightened at our being so
suddenly thrust in hither; and although that be no fault of ours, yet it will become us to
behave civilly towards her. Wherefore come thou with me to this window, and I will tell thee
what it concerns thee to know.'

'And what for should I no speak to the Leddy, friend?' said Peter, who was now about half seas
over. 'I have spoke to leddies before now, man. What for should she be frightened at me? I
am nae bogle, I ween. What are ye pooin' me that gate for? Ye will rive my coat, and I will
have a good action for having myself made SARTUM ATQUE TECTUM at your expenses.'

Notwithstanding this threat, Mr. Geddes, whose muscles were as strong as his judgement was
sound and his temper sedate, led Poor Peter under the sense of a control against which he could
not struggle, to the farther corner of the apartment, where, placing him, whether he would
or no, in a chair, he sat down beside him, and effectually prevented his annoying the young
lady, upon whom he had seemed bent upon conferring the delights of his society.

If Peter had immediately recognized his counsel learned in the law, it is probable that not
even the benevolent efforts of the Quaker could have kept him in a state of restraint; but
Fairford's back was turned towards his client, whose optics, besides being somewhat dazzled
with ale and brandy, were speedily engaged in contemplating a half-crown which Joshua held
between his finger and his thumb, saying, at the same time, 'Friend, thou art indigent and
improvident. This will, well employed, procure thee sustentation of nature for more than a
single day; and I will bestow it on thee if thou wilt sit here and keep me company; for neither
thou nor I, friend, are fit company for ladies.'

'Speak for yourself, friend,' said Peter, scornfully; 'I was ay kend to be agreeable to the
fair sex; and when I was in business I served the ladies wi' anither sort of decorum than Plainstanes,
the d--d awkward scoundrel! It was one of the articles of dittay between us.'

'Well, but, friend,' said the Quaker, who observed that the young lady still seemed to fear
Peter's intrusion, 'I wish to hear thee speak about this great lawsuit of thine, which has
been matter of such celebrity.'

'Celebrity! Ye may swear that,' said Peter, for the string was touched to which his crazy imagination
always vibrated. 'And I dinna wonder that folk that judge things by their outward grandeur,
should think me something worth their envying. It's very true that it is grandeur upon earth
to hear ane's name thunnered out along the long-arched roof of the Outer House,--"Poor Peter
Peebles against Plainstanes ET PER CONTRA;" a' the best lawyers in the house fleeing like eagles
to the prey; some because they are in the cause, and some because they want to be thought engaged
(for there are tricks in other trades by selling muslins)--to see the reporters mending their
pens to take down the debate--the Lords themselves pooin' in their chairs, like folk sitting
down to a gude dinner, and crying on the clerks for parts and pendicles of the process, who,
puir bodies, can do little mair than cry on their closet-keepers to help them. To see a' this,'
continued Peter, in a tone of sustained rapture, 'and to ken that naething will be said or
dune amang a' thae grand folk, for maybe the feck of three hours, saving what concerns you
and your business--Oh, man, nae wonder that ye judge this to be earthly glory! And yet, neighbour,
as I was saying, there be unco drawbacks--I whiles think of my bit house, where dinner, and
supper, and breakfast, used to come without the crying for, just as if fairies had brought
it--and the gude bed at e'en--and the needfu' penny in the pouch. And then to see a' ane's
warldly substance capering in the air in a pair of weighbauks, now up, now down, as the breath
of judge or counsel inclines it for pursuer or defender,--troth, man, there are times I rue
having ever begun the plea wark, though, maybe, when ye consider the renown and credit I have
by it, ye will hardly believe what I am saying.'

'Indeed, friend,' said Joshua, with a sigh, 'I am glad thou hast found anything in the legal
contention which compensates thee for poverty and hunger; but I believe, were other human objects
of ambition looked upon as closely, their advantages would be found as chimerical as those
attending thy protracted litigation.'

'But never mind, friend,' said Peter, 'I'll tell you the exact state of the conjunct processes,
and make you sensible that I can bring mysell round with a wet finger, now I have my finger
and my thumb on this loup-the-dike loon, the lad Fairford.'

Alan Fairford was in the act of speaking to the masked lady (for Miss Redgauntlet had retained
her riding vizard) endeavouring to assure her, as he perceived her anxiety, of such protection
as he could afford, when his own name, pronounced in a loud tone, attracted his attention.
He looked round, and seeing Peter Peebles, as hastily turned to avoid his notice, in which
he succeeded, so earnest was Peter upon his colloquy with one of the most respectable auditors
whose attention he had ever been able to engage. And by this little motion, momentary as it
was, Alan gained an unexpected advantage; for while he looked round, Miss Lilias, I could never
ascertain why, took the moment to adjust her mask, and did it so awkwardly, that when her companion
again turned his head, he recognized as much of her features as authorized him to address her
as his fair client, and to press his offers of protection and assistance with the boldness
of a former acquaintance.

Lilias Redgauntlet withdrew the mask from her crimsoned cheek. 'Mr. Fairford,' she said, in
a voice almost inaudible, 'you have the character of a young gentleman of sense and generosity;
but we have already met in one situation which you must think singular; and I must be exposed
to misconstruction, at least, for my forwardness, were it not in a cause in which my dearest
affections were concerned.'

'Any interest in my beloved friend Darsie Latimer,' said Fairford, stepping a little back,
and putting a marked restraint upon his former advances, 'gives me a double right to be useful
to'--He stopped short.

'To his sister, your goodness would say,' answered Lilias.

'His sister, madam!' replied Alan, in the extremity of astonishment--'Sister, I presume, in
affection only?'

'No, sir; my dear brother Darsie and I are connected by the bonds of actual relationship; and
I am not sorry to be the first to tell this to the friend he most values.'

Fairford's first thought was on the violent passion which Darsie had expressed towards the
fair unknown. 'Good God!' he exclaimed, 'how did he bear the discovery?'

'With resignation, I hope,' said Lilias, smiling. 'A more accomplished sister he might easily
have come by, but scarcely could have found one who could love him more than I do.'

'I meant--I only meant to say,' said the young counsellor, his presence of mind failing him
for an instant--'that is, I meant to ask where Darsie Latimer is at this moment.'

'In this very house, and under the guardianship of his uncle, whom I believe you knew as a
visitor of your father, under the name of Mr. Herries of Birrenswork.'

'Let me hasten to him,' said Fairford; 'I have sought him through difficulties and dangers--I
must see him instantly.'

'You forget you are a prisoner,' said the young lady.

'True--true; but I cannot be long detained--the cause alleged is too ridiculous.'

'Alas!' said Lilias, 'our fate--my brother's and mine, at least--must turn on the deliberations
perhaps of less than an hour. For you, sir, I believe and apprehend nothing; but some restraint;
my uncle is neither cruel nor unjust, though few will go further in the cause which he has
adopted.'

'Which is that of the Pretend'--

'For God's sake speak lower!' said Lilias, approaching her hand, as if to stop him. 'The word
may cost you your life. You do not know--indeed you do not--the terrors of the situation in
which we at present stand, and in which I fear you also are involved by your friendship for
my brother.'

'I do not indeed know the particulars of our situation,' said Fairford; 'but, be the danger
what it may, I shall not grudge my share of it for the sake of my friend; or,' he added, with
more timidity, 'of my friend's sister. Let me hope,' he said, 'my dear Miss Latimer, that my
presence may be of some use to you; and that it may be so, let me entreat a share of your confidence,
which I am conscious I have otherwise no right to ask.'

He led her, as he spoke, towards the recess of the farther window of the room, and observing
to her that, unhappily, he was particularly exposed to interruption from the mad old man whose
entrance had alarmed her, he disposed of Darsie Latimer's riding-skirt, which had been left
in the apartment, over the back of two chairs, forming thus a sort of screen, behind which
he ensconced himself with the maiden of the green mantle; feeling at the moment, that the danger
in which he was placed was almost compensated by the intelligence which permitted those feelings
towards her to revive, which justice to his friend had induced him to stifle in the birth.

The relative situation of adviser and advised, of protector and protected, is so peculiarly
suited to the respective condition of man and woman, that great progress towards intimacy is
often made in very short space; for the circumstances call for confidence on the part of the
gentleman, and forbid coyness on that of the lady, so that the usual barriers against easy
intercourse are at once thrown down.

Under these circumstances, securing themselves as far as possible from observation, conversing
in whispers, and seated in a corner, where they were brought into so close contact that their
faces nearly touched each other, Fairford heard from Lilias Redgauntlet the history of her
family, particularly of her uncle; his views upon her brother, and the agony which she felt,
lest at that very moment he might succeed in engaging Darsie in some desperate scheme, fatal
to his fortune and perhaps to his life.

Alan Fairford's acute understanding instantly connected what he had heard with the circumstances
he had witnessed at Fairladies. His first thought was, to attempt, at all risks, his instant
escape, and procure assistance powerful enough to crush, in the very cradle, a conspiracy of
such a determined character. This he did not consider as difficult; for, though the door was
guarded on the outside, the window, which was not above ten feet from the ground, was open
for escape, the common on which it looked was unenclosed, and profusely covered with furze.
There would, he thought, be little difficulty in effecting his liberty, and in concealing his
course after he had gained it.

But Lilias exclaimed against this scheme. Her uncle, she said, was a man who, in his moments
of enthusiasm, knew neither remorse nor fear. He was capable of visiting upon Darsie any injury
which he might conceive Fairford had rendered him--he was her near kinsman also, and not an
unkind one, and she deprecated any effort, even in her brother's favour, by which his life
must be exposed to danger. Fairford himself remembered Father Buonaventure, and made little
question but that he was one of the sons of the old Chevalier de Saint George; and with feelings
which, although contradictory of his public duty, can hardly be much censured, his heart recoiled
from being the agent by whom the last scion of such a long line of Scottish princes should
be rooted up. He then thought of obtaining an audience, if possible, of this devoted person,
and explaining to him the utter hopelessness of his undertaking, which he judged it likely
that the ardour of his partisans might have concealed from him. But he relinquished this design
as soon as formed. He had no doubt, that any light which he could throw on the state of the
country, would come too late to be serviceable to one who was always reported to have his own
full share of the hereditary obstinacy which had cost his ancestors so dear, and who, in drawing
the sword, must have thrown from him the scabbard.

Lilias suggested the advice which, of all others, seemed most suited to the occasion, that,
yielding, namely, to the circumstances of their situation, they should watch carefully when
Darsie should obtain any degree of freedom, and endeavour to open a communication with him,
in which case their joint flight might be effected, and without endangering the safety of any one.

Their youthful deliberation had nearly fixed in this point, when Fairford, who was listening
to the low sweet whispering tones of Lilias Redgauntlet, rendered yet more interesting by some
slight touch of foreign accent, was startled by a heavy hand which descended with full weight
on his shoulder, while the discordant voice of Peter Peebles, who had at length broke loose
from the well-meaning Quaker, exclaimed in the ear of his truant counsel--'Aha, lad! I think
ye are catched--An' so ye are turned chamber-counsel, are ye? And ye have drawn up wi' clients
in scarfs and hoods? But bide a wee, billie, and see if I dinna sort ye when my petition and
complaint comes to be discussed, with or without answers, under certification.'

Alan Fairford had never more difficulty in his life to subdue a first emotion, than he had
to refrain from knocking down the crazy blockhead who had broken in upon him at such a moment.
But the length of Peter's address gave him time, fortunately perhaps for both parties, to reflect
on the extreme irregularity of such a proceeding. He stood silent, however, with vexation,
while Peter went on.

'Weel, my bonnie man, I see ye are thinking shame o' yoursell, and nae great wonder. Ye maun
leave this quean--the like of her is ower light company for you. I have heard honest Mr. Pest
say, that the gown grees ill wi' the petticoat. But come awa hame to your puir father, and
I'll take care of you the haill gate, and keep you company, and deil a word we will speak about,
but just the state of the conjoined processes of the great cause of Poor Peter Peebles against
Plainstanes.'

'If thou canst; endure to hear as much of that suit, friend,' said the Quaker, 'as I have heard
out of mere compassion for thee, I think verily thou wilt soon be at the bottom of the matter,
unless it be altogether bottomless.'

Fairford shook off, rather indignantly, the large bony hand which Peter had imposed upon his
shoulder, and was about to say something peevish, upon so unpleasant and insolent a mode of
interruption, when the door opened, a treble voice saying to the sentinel, 'I tell you I maun
be in, to see if Mr. Nixon's here;' and little Benjie thrust in his mop-head and keen black
eyes. Ere he could withdraw it, Peter Peebles sprang to the door, seized on the boy by the
collar, and dragged him forward into the room.

'Let me see it,' he said, 'ye ne'er-do-weel limb of Satan--I'll gar you satisfy the production,
I trow--I'll hae first and second diligence against you, ye deevil's buckie!'

'What dost thou want?' said the Quaker, interfering; 'why dost thou frighten the boy, friend
Peebles?'

'I gave the bastard a penny to buy me snuff,' said the pauper, 'and he has rendered no account
of his intromissions; but I'll gar him as gude.'

So saying, he proceeded forcibly to rifle the pockets of Benjie's ragged jacket of one or two
snares for game, marbles, a half-bitten apple, two stolen eggs (one of which Peter broke in
the eagerness of his research), and various other unconsidered trifles, which had not the air
of being very honestly come by. The little rascal, under this discipline, bit and struggled
like a fox-cub, but, like that vermin, uttered neither cry nor complaint, till a note, which
Peter tore from his bosom, flew as far as Lilias Redgauntlet, and fell at her feet. It was
addressed to C. N.

'It is for the villain Nixon.' she said to Alan Fairford; 'open it without scruple; that boy
is his emissary; we shall now see what the miscreant is driving at.'

Little Benjie now gave up all further struggle, and suffered Peebles to take from him, without
resistance, a shilling, out of which Peter declared he would pay himself principal and interest,
and account for the balance. The boy, whose attention seemed fixed on something very different,
only said, 'Maister Nixon will murder me!'

Alan Fairford did not hesitate to read the little scrap of paper, on which was written, 'All
is prepared--keep them in play until I come up. You may depend on your reward.--C. C.'

'Alas, my uncle--my poor uncle!' said Lilias; 'this is the result of his confidence. Methinks,
to give him instant notice of his confidant's treachery, is now the best service we can render
all concerned--if they break up their undertaking, as they must now do, Darsie will be at liberty.'

In the same breath, they were both at the half-opened door of the room, Fairford entreating
to speak with the Father Buonaventure, and Lilias, equally vehemently, requesting a moment's
interview with her uncle. While the sentinel hesitated what to do, his attention was called
to a loud noise at the door, where a crowd had been assembled in consequence of the appalling
cry, that the enemy were upon them, occasioned, as it afterwards proved, by some stragglers
having at length discovered the dead bodies of Nanty Ewart and of Nixon.

Amid the confusion occasioned by this alarming incident, the sentinel ceased to attend, to
his duty; and accepting Alan Fairford's arm, Lilias found no opposition in penetrating even
to the inner apartment, where the principal persons in the enterprise, whose conclave had been
disturbed by this alarming incident, were now assembled in great confusion, and had been joined
by the Chevalier himself.

'Only a mutiny among these smuggling scoundrels,' said Redgauntlet.

ONLY a mutiny, do you say?' said Sir Richard Glendale; 'and the lugger, the last hope of escape
for,'--he looked towards Charles,--'stands out to sea under a press of sail!'

'Do not concern yourself about me,' said the unfortunate prince; 'this is not the worst emergency
in which it has been my lot to stand; and if it were, I fear it not. Shift for yourselves,
my lords and gentlemen.'

'No, never!' said the young Lord ------. 'Our only hope now is in an honourable resistance.'

'Most true,' said Redgauntlet; 'let despair renew the union amongst us which accident disturbed.
I give my voice for displaying the royal banner instantly, and--How now!' he concluded, sternly,
as Lilias, first soliciting his attention by pulling his cloak, put into his hand the scroll,
and added, it was designed for that of Nixon.

Redgauntlet read--and, dropping it on the ground, continued to stare upon the spot where it
fell, with raised hands and fixed eyes. Sir Richard Glendale lifted the fatal paper, read it,
and saying, 'Now all is indeed over,' handed it to Maxwell, who said aloud, 'Black Colin Campbell,
by G--d! I heard he had come post from London last night.'

As if in echo to his thoughts, the violin of the blind man was heard, playing with spirit,
The Campbells are coming,' a celebrated clan-march.

'The Campbells are coming in earnest,' said MacKellar; they are upon us with the whole battalion
from Carlisle.'

There was a silence of dismay, and two or three of the company began to drop out of the room.

Lord ------ spoke with the generous spirit of a young English nobleman. 'If we have been fools,
do not let us be cowards. We have one here more precious than us all, and come hither on our
warranty--let us save him at least.'

'True, most true,' answered Sir Richard Glendale. 'Let the king be first cared for.'

'That shall be my business,' said Redgauntlet 'if we have but time to bring back the brig,
all will be well--I will instantly dispatch a party in a fishing skiff to bring her to.' He
gave his commands to two or three of the most active among his followers. 'Let him be once
on board,' he said, 'and there are enough of us to stand to arms and cover his retreat.'

'Right, right,' said Sir Richard, 'and I will look to points which can be made defensible;
and the old powder-plot boys could not have made a more desperate resistance than we shall.
Redgauntlet,' continued he, 'I see some of our friends are looking pale; but methinks your
nephew has more mettle in his eye now than when we were in cold deliberation, with danger at
a distance.'

'It is the way of our house,' said Redgauntlet; 'our courage ever kindles highest on the losing
side. I, too, feel that the catastrophe I have brought on must not be survived by its author.
Let me first,' he said, addressing Charles, 'see your Majesty's sacred person in such safety
as can now be provided for it, and then'--

'You may spare all considerations concerning me, gentlemen,' again repeated Charles; 'yon mountain
of Criffel shall fly as soon as I will.'

Most threw themselves at his feet with weeping and entreaty; some one or two slunk in confusion
from the apartment, and were heard riding off. Unnoticed in such a scene, Darsie, his sister,
and Fairford, drew together, and held each other by the hands, as those who, when a vessel
is about to founder in the storm, determine to take their chance of life and death together.

Amid this scene of confusion, a gentleman, plainly dressed in a riding-habit, with a black
cockade in his hat, but without any arms except a COUTEAU-DE-CHASSE, walked into the apartment
without ceremony. He was a tall, thin, gentlemanly man, with a look and bearing decidedly military.
He had passed through their guards, if in the confusion they now maintained any, without stop
or question, and now stood, almost unarmed, among armed men, who nevertheless, gazed on him
as on the angel of destruction.

'You look coldly on me, gentlemen,' he said. 'Sir Richard Glendale--my Lord ------, we were
not always such strangers. Ha, Pate-in-Peril, how is it with you? and you, too, Ingoldsby--I
must not call you by any other name--why do you receive an old friend so coldly? But you guess
my errand.'

'And are prepared for it, general,' said Redgauntlet; 'we are not men to be penned up like
sheep for the slaughter.'

'Pshaw! you take it too seriously--let me speak but one word with you.'

'No words can shake our purpose,' said Redgauntlet, were your whole command, as I suppose is
the case, drawn round the house.'

'I am certainly not unsupported,' said the general; 'but if you would hear me'--

'Hear ME, sir,' said the Wanderer, stepping forward; 'I suppose I am the mark you aim at--I
surrender myself willingly, to save these gentlemen's danger--let this at least avail in their
favour.'

An exclamation of 'Never, never!' broke from the little body of partisans, who threw themselves
round the unfortunate prince, and would have seized or struck down Campbell, had it not been
that he remained with his arms folded, and a look, rather indicating impatience because they
would not hear him, than the least apprehension of violence at their hand.

At length he obtained a moment's silence. 'I do not,' he said, 'know this gentleman'--(making
a profound bow to the unfortunate prince)--'I do not wish to know him; it is a knowledge which
would suit neither of us.'

'Our ancestors, nevertheless, have been well acquainted,' said Charles, unable to suppress,
even at that hour of dread and danger, the painful recollections of fallen royalty.

'In one word, General Campbell,' said Redgauntlet, 'is it to be peace or war? You are a man
of honour, and we can trust you.'

'I thank you, sir,' said the general; 'and I reply, that the answer to your question rests
with yourself. Come, do not be fools, gentlemen; there was perhaps no great harm meant or intended
by your gathering together in this obscure corner, for a bear-bait or a cock-fight, or whatever
other amusement you may have intended, but it was a little imprudent, considering how you stand
with government, and it has occasioned some anxiety. Exaggerated accounts of your purpose have
been laid before government by the information of a traitor in your own counsels; and I was
sent down post to take the command of a sufficient number of troops, in case these calumnies
should be found to have any real foundation. I have come here, of course, sufficiently supported
both with cavalry and infantry, to do whatever might be necessary; but my commands are--and
I am sure they agree with my inclination--to make no arrests, nay, to make no further inquiries
of any kind, if this good assembly will consider their own interest so far as to give up their
immediate purpose, and return quietly home to their own houses.'

'What!--all?' exclaimed Sir Richard Glendale--'all, without exception?'

'ALL, without one single exception' said the general; 'such are my orders. If you accept my
terms, say so, and make haste; for things may happen to interfere with his Majesty's kind purposes
towards you all.'

'Majesty's kind purposes!' said the Wanderer. 'Do I hear you aright, sir?'

'I speak the king's very words, from his very lips,' replied the general. '"I will," said his
Majesty, "deserve the confidence of my subjects by reposing my security in the fidelity of
the millions who acknowledge my title--in the good sense and prudence of the few who continue,
from the errors of education, to disown it." His Majesty will not even believe that the most
zealous Jacobites who yet remain can nourish a thought of exciting a civil war, which must
be fatal to their families and themselves, besides spreading bloodshed and ruin through a peaceful
land. He cannot even believe of his kinsman, that he would engage brave and generous though
mistaken men, in an attempt which must ruin all who have escaped former calamities; and he
is convinced, that, did curiosity or any other motive lead that person to visit this country,
he would soon see it was his wisest course to return to the continent; and his Majesty compassionates
his situation too much to offer any obstacle to his doing so.'

'Is this real?' said Redgauntlet. 'Can you mean this? Am I--are all, are any of these gentlemen
at liberty, without interruption, to embark in yonder brig, which, I see, is now again approaching
the shore?'

'You, sir--all--any of the gentlemen present,' said the general,--'all whom the vessel can
contain, are at liberty to embark uninterrupted by me; but I advise none to go off who have
not powerful reasons unconnected with the present meeting, for this will be remembered against
no one.'

'Then, gentlemen,' said Redgauntlet, clasping his hands together as the words burst from him,
'the cause is lost for ever!'

General Campbell turned away to the window, as if to avoid hearing what they said. Their consultation
was but momentary; for the door of escape which thus opened was as unexpected as the exigence
was threatening.

'We have your word of honour for our protection,' said Sir Richard Glendale, 'if we dissolve
our meeting in obedience to your summons?'

'You have, Sir Richard,' answered the general.

'And I also have your promise,' said Redgauntlet, 'that I may go on board yonder vessel, with
any friend whom I may choose to accompany me?'

Not only that, Mr. Ingoldsby--or I WILL call you Mr. Redgauntlet once more--you may stay in
the offing for a tide, until you are joined by any person who may remain at Fairladies. After
that, there will be a sloop of war on the station, and I need not say your condition will then
become perilous.'

'Perilous it should not be, General Campbell,' said Redgauntlet, 'or more perilous to others
than to us, if others thought as I do even in this extremity.'

'You forget yourself, my friend,' said the unhappy Adventurer; you forget that the arrival
of this gentleman only puts the cope-stone on our already adopted resolution to abandon our
bull-fight or by whatever other wild name this headlong enterprise may be termed. I bid you
farewell, unfriendly friends--I bid you farewell,' (bowing to the general) 'my friendly foe--I
leave this strand as I landed upon it, alone and to return no more!'

'Not alone,' said Redgauntlet, 'while there is blood in the veins of my father's son.'

'Not alone,' said the other gentlemen present, stung with feelings which almost overpowered
the better reasons under which they had acted. 'We will not disown our principles, or see your
person endangered.'

'If it be only your purpose to see the gentleman to the beach,' said General Campbell, 'I will
myself go with you. My presence among you, unarmed, and in your power, will be a pledge of
my friendly intentions, and will overawe, should such be offered, any interruption on the part
of officious persons.'

'Be it so,' said the Adventurer, with the air of a prince to a subject, not of one who complied
with the request of an enemy too powerful to be resisted.

They left the apartment--they left the house--an unauthenticated and dubious, but appalling,
sensation of terror had already spread itself among the inferior retainers, who had so short
time before strutted, and bustled, and thronged the doorway and the passages. A report had
arisen, of which the origin could not be traced, of troops advancing towards the spot in considerable
numbers; and men who, for one reason or other, were most of them amenable to the arm of power,
had either shrunk into stables or corners, or fled the place entirely. There was solitude on
the landscape excepting the small party which now moved towards the rude pier, where a boat
lay manned, agreeably to Redgauntlet's orders previously given.

The last heir of the Stuarts leant on Redgauntlet's arm as they walked towards the beach; for
the ground was rough, and he no longer possessed the elasticity of limb and of spirit which
had, twenty years before, carried him over many a Highland hill as light as one of their native
deer. His adherents followed, looking on the ground, their feelings struggling against the
dictates of their reason.

General Campbell accompanied them with an air of apparent ease and indifference, but watching,
at the same time, and no doubt with some anxiety, the changing features of those who acted
in this extraordinary scene.

Darsie and his sister naturally followed their uncle, whose violence they no longer feared,
while his character attracted their respect, and Alan Fairford attended them from interest
in their fate, unnoticed in a party where all were too much occupied with their own thoughts
and feelings, as well as with the impending crisis, to attend to his presence.

Half-way betwixt the house and the beach, they saw the bodies of Nanty Ewart and Cristal Nixon
blackening in the sun.

'That was your informer?' said Redgauntlet, looking back to General Campbell, who only nodded
his assent.

'Caitiff wretch!' exclaimed Redgauntlet;--'and yet the name were better bestowed on the fool
who could be misled by thee.'

'That sound broadsword cut,' said the general, 'has saved us the shame of rewarding a traitor.'

They arrived at the place of embarkation. The prince stood a moment with folded arms, and looked
around him in deep silence. A paper was then slipped into his hands--he looked at it, and said,
'I find the two friends I have left at Fairladies are apprised of my destination, and propose
to embark from Bowness. I presume this will not be an infringement of the conditions under
which you have acted?'

'Certainly not,' answered General Campbell; 'they shall have all facility to join you.'

'I wish, then,' said Charles, 'only another companion. Redgauntlet, the air of this country
is as hostile to you as it is to me. These gentlemen have made their peace, or rather they
have done nothing to break it. But you--come you and share my home where chance shall cast
it. We shall never see these shores again; but we will talk of them, and of our disconcerted
bull-fight.'

'I follow you, sire, through life,' said Redgauntlet, 'as I would have followed you to death.
Permit me one moment.'

The prince then looked round, and seeing the abashed countenances of his other adherents bent
upon the ground, he hastened to say, 'Do not think that you, gentlemen, have obliged me less
because your zeal was mingled with prudence, entertained, I am sure, more on my own account
and on that of your country, than from selfish apprehensions.'

He stepped from one to another, and, amid sobs and bursting tears, received the adieus of the
last remnant which had hitherto supported his lofty pretensions, and addressed them individually
with accents of tenderness and affection.

The general drew a little aloof, and signed to Redgauntlet to speak with him while this scene
proceeded. 'It is now all over,' he said, 'and Jacobite will be henceforward no longer a party
name. When you tire of foreign parts, and wish to make your peace, let me know. Your restless
zeal alone has impeded your pardon hitherto.'

'And now I shall not need it,' said Redgauntlet. 'I leave England for ever; but I am not displeased
that you should hear my family adieus.--Nephew, come hither. In presence of General Campbell,
I tell you, that though to breed you up in my own political opinions has been for many years
my anxious wish, I am now glad that it could not be accomplished. You pass under the service
of the reigning monarch without the necessity of changing your allegiance--a change, however,'
he added, looking around him, which sits more easy on honourable men than I could have anticipated;
but some wear the badge of their loyalty on their sleeve, and others in the heart. You will,
from henceforth, be uncontrolled master of all the property of which forfeiture could not deprive
your father--of all that belonged to him--excepting this, his good sword' (laying his hand
on the weapon he wore), 'which shall never fight for the House of Hanover; and as my hand will
never draw weapon more, I shall sink it forty fathoms deep in the wide ocean. Bless you, young
man! If I have dealt harshly with you, forgive me. I had set my whole desires on one point,--God
knows, with no selfish purpose; and I am justly punished by this final termination of my views,
for having been too little scrupulous in the means by which I pursued them.--Niece, farewell,
and may God bless you also!'

'No, sir,' said Lilias, seizing his hand eagerly. 'You have been hitherto my protector,--you
are now in sorrow, let me be your attendant and your comforter in exile.'

'I thank you, my girl, for your unmerited affection; but it cannot and must not be. The curtain
here falls between us. I go to the house of another. If I leave it before I quit the earth,
it shall be only for the House of God. Once more, farewell both! The fatal doom,' he said,
with a melancholy smile, 'will, I trust, now depart from the House of Redgauntlet, since its
present representative has adhered to the winning side. I am convinced he will not change it,
should it in turn become the losing one.'

The unfortunate Charles Edward had now given his last adieus to his downcast adherents. He
made a sign with his hand to Redgauntlet, who came to assist him into the skiff. General Campbell
also offered his assistance, the rest appearing too much affected by the scene which had taken
place to prevent him.

'You are not sorry, general, to do me this last act of courtesy,' said the Chevalier; 'and,
on my part, I thank you for it. You have taught me the principle on which men on the scaffold
feel forgiveness and kindness even for their executioner. Farewell!'

They were seated in the boat, which presently pulled off from the land. The Oxford divine broke
out into a loud benediction, in terms which General Campbell was too generous to criticize
at the time, or to remember afterwards;--nay, it is said, that, Whig and Campbell as he was,
he could not help joining in the universal Amen! which resounded from the shore.

CONCLUSION, BY DR. DRYASDUST

IN A LETTER TO THE AUTHOR OF WAVERLEY

I am truly sorry, my worthy and much-respected sir, that my anxious researches have neither,
in the form of letters, nor of diaries or other memoranda, been able to discover more than
I have hitherto transmitted, of the history of the Redgauntlet family. But I observe in an
old newspaper called the WHITEHALL GAZETTE, of which I fortunately possess a file for several
years, that Sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet was presented to his late Majesty at the drawing-room,
by Lieut.-General Campbell--upon which the editor observes, in the way of comment, that we
were going, REMIS ATQUE VELIS, into the interests of the Pretender, since a Scot had presented
a Jacobite at Court. I am sorry I have not room (the frank being only uncial) for his further
observations, tending to show the apprehensions entertained by many well-instructed persons
of the period, that the young king might himself be induced to become one of the Stuarts' faction,--a
catastrophe from which it has pleased Heaven to preserve these kingdoms.

I perceive also, by a marriage-contract in the family repositories, that Miss Lilias Redgauntlet
of Redgauntlet, about eighteen months after the transactions you have commemorated, intermarried
with Alan Fairford, Esq., Advocate, of Clinkdollar, who, I think, we may not unreasonably conclude
to be the same person whose name occurs so frequently in the pages of your narration. In my
last excursion to Edinburgh, I was fortunate enough to discover an old caddie, from whom, at
the expense of a bottle of whisky and half a pound of tobacco, I extracted the important information,
that he knew Peter Peebles very well, and had drunk many a mutchkin with him in Caddie Fraser's
time. He said 'that he lived ten years after King George's accession, in the momentary expectation
of winning his cause every day in the session time, and every hour in the day, and at last
fell down dead, in what my informer called a 'perplexity fit,' upon a proposal for a composition
being made to him in the Outer House. I have chosen to retain my informer's phrase, not being
able justly to determine whether it is a corruption of the word apoplexy, as my friend Mr.
Oldbuck supposes, or the name of some peculiar disorder incidental to those who have concern
in the courts of law, as many callings and conditions of men have diseases appropriate to themselves.
The same caddie also remembered Blind Willie Stevenson, who was called Wandering Willie, and
who ended his days 'unco beinly, in Sir Arthur Redgauntlet's ha' neuk.' 'He had done the family
some good turn,' he said, 'specially when ane of the Argyle gentlemen was coming down on a
wheen of them that had the "auld leaven" about them, and wad hae taen every man of them, and
nae less nor headed and hanged them. But Willie, and a friend they had, called Robin the Rambler,
gae them warning, by playing tunes such as "The Campbells are coming" and the like, whereby
they got timeous warning to take the wing.' I need not point out to your acuteness, my worthy
sir, that this seems to refer to some inaccurate account of the transactions in which you seem
so much interested.

Respecting Redgauntlet, about whose subsequent history you are more particularly inquisitive,
I have learned from an excellent person who was a priest in the Scottish Monastery of Ratisbon,
before its suppression, that he remained for two or three years in the family of the Chevalier,
and only left it at last in consequence of some discords in that melancholy household. As he
had hinted to General Campbell, he exchanged his residence for the cloister, and displayed
in the latter part of his life, a strong sense of the duties of religion, which in his earlier
days he had too much neglected, being altogether engaged in political speculations and intrigues.
He rose to the situation of prior, in the house which he belonged to, and which was of a very
strict order of religion. He sometimes received his countrymen, whom accident brought to Ratisbon,
and curiosity induced to visit the Monastery of ------. But it was remarked, that though he
listened with interest and attention, when Britain, or particularly Scotland, became the subject
of conversation, yet he never either introduced or prolonged the subject, never used the English
language, never inquired about English affairs, and, above all, never mentioned his own family.
His strict observation of the rules of his order gave him, at the time of his death, some pretensions
to be chosen a saint, and the brethren of the Monastery of ------ made great efforts for that
effect, and brought forward some plausible proofs of miracles. But there was a circumstance
which threw a doubt over the subject, and prevented the consistory from acceding to the wishes
of the worthy brethren. Under his habit, and secured in a small silver box, he had worn perpetually
around his neck a lock of-hair, which the fathers avouched to be a relic. But the Avvocato
del Diabolo, in combating (as was his official duty) the pretensions of the candidate for sanctity,
made it at least equally probable that the supposed relic was taken from the head of a brother
of the deceased prior, who had been executed for adherence to the Stuart family in 1745-6;
and the motto, HAUD OBLIVISCENDUM, seemed to intimate a tone of mundane feeling and recollection
of injuries, which made it at least doubtful whether, even in the quiet and gloom of the cloister,
Father Hugo had forgotten the sufferings and injuries of the House of Redgauntlet.

June 10, 1824,

NOTES

NOTE 1.--THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS

