

Having put all necessary questions, and received all suitable answers, respecting the state
of the neighbourhood, and such of her own friends as continued to reside there, the conversation
began rather to flag, until Deborah found the art of again re-newing its interest, by communicating
to her friends the dismal intelligence that they must soon look for deadly bad news from the
Castle; for that her present master, Major Bridgenorth, had been summoned, by some great people
from London, to assist in taking her old master, Sir Geoffrey; and that all Master Bridgenorth's
servants, and several other persons whom she named, friends and adherents of the same interest,
had assembled a force to surprise the Castle; and that as Sir Geoffrey was now so old, and
gouty withal, it could not be expected he should make the defence he was wont; and then he
was known to be so stout-hearted, that it was not to be supposed that he would yield up without
stroke of sword; and then if he was killed, as he was like to be, amongst them that liked never
a bone of his body, and now had him at their mercy, why, in that case, she, Dame Deborah, would
look upon Lady Peveril as little better than a dead woman; and undoubtedly there would be a
general mourning through all that country, where they had such great kin; and silks were likely
to rise on it, as Master Lutestring, the mercer of Chesterfield, was like to feel in his purse
bottom. But for her part, let matters wag how they would, an if Master Julian Peveril was to
come to his own, she could give as near a guess as e'er another who was likely to be Lady at
Martindale.

The text of this lecture, or, in other words, the fact that Bridgenorth was gone with a party
to attack Sir Geoffrey Peveril in his own Castle of Martindale, sounded so stunningly strange
in the ears of those old retainers of his family, that they had no power either to attend to
Mistress Deborah's inferences, or to interrupt the velocity of speech with which she poured
them forth. And when at length she made a breathless pause, all that poor Dame Ellesmere could
reply, was the emphatic question, "Bridgenorth brave Peveril of the Peak!--Is the woman mad?"

"Come, come, dame," said Deborah, "woman me no more than I woman you. I have not been called
Mistress at the head of the table for so many years, to be woman'd here by you. And for the
news, it is as true as that you are sitting there in a white hood, who will wear a black one
ere long."

"Lance Outram," said the old woman, "make out, if thou be'st a man, and listen about if aught
stirs up at the Castle."

"If there should," said Outram, "I am even too long here;" and he caught up his crossbow, and
one or two arrows, and rushed out of the cottage.

"Well-a-day!" said Mistress Deborah, "see if my news have not frightened away Lance Outram
too, whom they used to say nothing could start. But do not take on so, dame; for I dare say
if the Castle and the lands pass to my new master, Major Bridgenorth, as it is like they will--for
I have heard that he has powerful debts over the estate--you shall have my good word with him,
and I promise you he is no bad man; something precise about preaching and praying, and about
the dress which one should wear, which, I must own, beseems not a gentleman, as, to be sure,
every woman knows best what becomes her. But for you, dame, that wear a prayer-book at your
girdle, with your housewife-case, and never change the fashion of your white hood, I dare say
he will not grudge you the little matter you need, and are not able to win."

"Out, sordid jade!" exclaimed Dame Ellesmere, her very flesh quivering betwixt apprehension
and anger, "and hold your peace this instant, or I will find those that shall flay the very
hide from thee with dog-whips. Hast thou ate thy noble master's bread, not only to betray his
trust, and fly from his service, but wouldst thou come here, like an ill-omened bird as thou
art, to triumph over his downfall?"

"Nay, dame," said Deborah, over whom the violence of the old woman had obtained a certain predominance;
"it is not I that say it--only the warrant of the Parliament folks."

"I thought we had done with their warrants ever since the blessed twenty-ninth of May," said
the old housekeeper of Martindale Castle; "but this I tell thee, sweetheart, that I have seen
such warrants crammed, at the sword's point, down the throats of them that brought them; and
so shall this be, if there is one true man left to drink of the Dove."

As she spoke, Lance Outram re-entered the cottage. "Naunt," he said in dismay, "I doubt it
is true what she says. The beacon tower is as black as my belt. No Pole-star of Peveril. What
does that betoken?"

"Death, ruin, and captivity," exclaimed old Ellesmere. "Make for the Castle, thou knave. Thrust
in thy great body. Strike for the house that bred thee and fed thee; and if thou art buried
under the ruins, thou diest a man's death."

"Nay, naunt, I shall not be slack," answered Outram. "But here come folks that I warrant can
tell us more on't."

One or two of the female servants, who had fled from the Castle during the alarm, now rushed
in with various reports of the case; but all agreeing that a body of armed men were in possession
of the Castle, and that Major Bridgenorth had taken young Master Julian prisoner, and conveyed
him down to Moultrassie Hall, with his feet tied under the belly of the nag--a shameful sight
to be seen--and he so well born and so handsome.

Lance scratched his head; and though feeling the duty incumbent upon him as a faithful servant,
which was indeed specially dinned into him by the cries and exclamations of his aunt, he seemed
not a little dubious how to conduct himself. "I would to God, naunt," he said at last, "that
old Whitaker were alive now, with his long stories about Marston Moor and Edge Hill, that made
us all yawn our jaws off their hinges, in spite of broiled rashers and double beer! When a
man is missed, he is moaned, as they say; and I would rather than a broad piece he had been
here to have sorted this matter, for it is clean out of my way as a woodsman, that have no
skill of war. But dang it, if old Sir Geoffrey go to the wall without a knock for it!--Here
you, Nell"--(speaking to one of the fugitive maidens from the Castle)--"but, no--you have not
the heart of a cat, and are afraid of your own shadow by moonlight--But, Cis, you are a stout-hearted
wench, and know a buck from a bullfinch. Hark thee, Cis, as you would wish to be married, get
up to the Castle again, and get thee in--thou best knowest where--for thou hast oft gotten
out of postern to a dance or junketing, to my knowledge--Get thee back to the Castle, as ye
hope to be married--See my lady--they cannot hinder thee of that--my lady has a head worth
twenty of ours--If I am to gather force, light up the beacon for a signal; and spare not a
tar barrel on't. Thou mayst do it safe enough. I warrant the Roundheads busy with drink and
plunder.--And, hark thee, say to my lady I am gone down to the miners' houses at Bonadventure.
The rogues were mutinying for their wages but yesterday; they will be all ready for good or
bad. Let her send orders down to me; or do you come yourself, your legs are long enough."

"Whether they are or not, Master Lance (and you know nothing of the matter), they shall do
your errand to-night, for love of the old knight and his lady."

So Cisly Sellok, a kind of Derbyshire Camilla, who had won the smock at the foot-race at Ashbourne,
sprung forward towards the Castle with a speed which few could have equalled.

"There goes a mettled wench," said Lance; "and now, naunt, give me the old broadsword--it is
above the bed-head--and my wood-knife; and I shall do well enough."

"And what is to become of me?" bleated the unfortunate Mistress Deborah Debbitch.

"You must remain here with my aunt, Mistress Deb; and, for old acquaintance' sake, she will
take care no harm befalls you; but take heed how you attempt to break bounds."

So saying, and pondering in his own mind the task which he had undertaken, the hardy forester
strode down the moonlight glade, scarcely hearing the blessings and cautions which Dame Ellesmere
kept showering after him. His thoughts were not altogether warlike. "What a tight ankle the
jade hath!--she trips it like a doe in summer over dew. Well, but here are the huts--Let us
to this gear.--Are ye all asleep, you dammers, sinkers, and drift-drivers? turn out, ye subterranean
badgers. Here is your master, Sir Geoffrey, dead, for aught ye know or care. Do not you see
the beacon is unlit, and you sit there like so many asses?"

"Why," answered one of the miners, who now began to come out of their huts--

 "An he be dead,
  He will eat no more bread."

"And you are like to eat none neither," said Lance; "for the works will be presently stopped,
and all of you turned off."

"Well, and what of it, Master Lance? As good play for nought as work for nought. Here is four
weeks we have scarce seen the colour of Sir Geoffrey's coin; and you ask us to care whether
he be dead or in life? For you, that goes about, trotting upon your horse, and doing for work
what all men do for pleasure, it may be well enough; but it is another matter to be leaving
God's light, and burrowing all day and night in darkness, like a toad in a hole--that's not
to be done for nought, I trow; and if Sir Geoffrey is dead, his soul will suffer for't; and
if he's alive, we'll have him in the Barmoot Court."

"Hark ye, gaffer," said Lance, "and take notice, my mates, all of you," for a considerable
number of these rude and subterranean people had now assembled to hear the discussion--"Has
Sir Geoffrey, think you, ever put a penny in his pouch out of this same Bonadventure mine?"

"I cannot say as I think he has," answered old Ditchley, the party who maintained the controversy.

"Answer on your conscience, though it be but a leaden one. Do not you know that he hath lost
a good penny?"

"Why, I believe he may," said Gaffer Ditchley. "What then!--lose to-day, win to-morrow--the
miner must eat in the meantime."

"True; but what will you eat when Master Bridgenorth gets the land, that will not hear of a
mine being wrought on his own ground? Will he work on at dead loss, think ye?" demanded trusty
Lance.

"Bridgenorth?--he of Moultrassie Hall, that stopped the great Felicity Work, on which his father
laid out, some say, ten thousand pounds, and never got in a penny? Why, what has he to do with
Sir Geoffrey's property down here at Bonadventure? It was never his, I trow."

"Nay, what do I know?" answered Lance, who saw the impression he had made. "Law and debt will
give him half Derbyshire, I think, unless you stand by old Sir Geoffrey."

"But if Sir Geoffrey be dead," said Ditchley cautiously, "what good will our standing by do
to him?"

"I did not say he was dead, but only as bad as dead; in the hands of the Roundheads--a prisoner
up yonder, at his own Castle," said Lance; "and will have his head cut off, like the good Earl
of Derby's at Bolton-le-Moors."

"Nay, then, comrades," said Gaffer Ditchley, "an it be as Master Lance says, I think we should
bear a hand for stout old Sir Geoffrey, against a low-born mean-spirited fellow like Bridgenorth,
who shut up a shaft had cost thousands, without getting a penny profit on't. So hurra for Sir
Geoffrey, and down with the Rump! But hold ye a blink--hold"--(and the waving of his hand stopped
the commencing cheer)--"Hark ye, Master Lance, it must be all over, for the beacon is as black
as night; and you know yourself that marks the Lord's death."

"It will kindle again in an instant," said Lance; internally adding, "I pray to God it may!--It
will kindle in an instant--lack of fuel, and the confusion of the family."

"Ay, like enow, like enow," said Ditchley; "but I winna budge till I see it blazing."

"Why then, there a-goes!" said Lance. "Thank thee, Cis--thank thee, my good wench.--Believe
your own eyes, my lads, if you will not believe me; and now hurra for Peveril of the Peak--the
King and his friends--and down with Rumps and Roundheads!"

The sudden rekindling of the beacon had all the effect which Lance could have desired upon
the minds of his rude and ignorant hearers, who, in their superstitious humour, had strongly
associated the Polar-star of Peveril with the fortunes of the family. Once moved, according
to the national character of their countrymen, they soon became enthusiastic; and Lance found
himself at the head of thirty stout fellows and upwards, armed with their pick-axes, and ready
to execute whatever task he should impose on them.

Trusting to enter the Castle by the postern, which had served to accommodate himself and other
domestics upon an emergency, his only anxiety was to keep his march silent; and he earnestly
recommended to his followers to reserve their shouts for the moment of the attack. They had
not advanced far on their road to the Castle, when Cisly Sellok met them so breathless with
haste, that the poor girl was obliged to throw herself into Master Lance's arms.

"Stand up, my mettled wench," said he, giving her a sly kiss at the same time, "and let us
know what is going on up at the Castle."

"My lady bids you, as you would serve God and your master, not to come up to the Castle, which
can but make bloodshed; for she says Sir Geoffrey is lawfully in hand, and that he must bide
the issue; and that he is innocent of what he is charged with, and is going up to speak for
himself before King and Council, and she goes up with him. And besides, they have found out
the postern, the Roundhead rogues; for two of them saw me when I went out of door, and chased
me; but I showed them a fair pair of heels."

"As ever dashed dew from the cowslip," said Lance. "But what the foul fiend is to be done?
for if they have secured the postern, I know not how the dickens we can get in."

"All is fastened with bolt and staple, and guarded with gun and pistol, at the Castle," quoth
Cisly; "and so sharp are they, that they nigh caught me coming with my lady's message, as I
told you. But my lady says, if you could deliver her son, Master Julian, from Bridgenorth,
that she would hold it good service."

"What!" said Lance, "is young master at the Castle? I taught him to shoot his first shaft.
But how to get in!"

"He was at the Castle in the midst of the ruffle, but old Bridgenorth has carried him down
prisoner to the hall," answered Cisly. "There was never faith nor courtesy in an old Puritan
who never had pipe and tabor in his house since it was built."

"Or who stopped a promising mine," said Ditchley, "to save a few thousand pounds, when he might
have made himself as rich as Lord of Chatsworth, and fed a hundred good fellows all the whilst."

"Why, then," said Lance, "since you are all of a mind, we will go draw the cover for the old
badger; and I promise you that the Hall is not like one of your real houses of quality where
the walls are as thick as whinstone-dikes, but foolish brick-work, that your pick-axes will
work through as if it were cheese. Huzza once more for Peveril of the Peak! down with Bridgenorth,
and all upstart cuckoldly Roundheads!"

Having indulged the throats of his followers with one buxom huzza, Lance commanded them to
cease their clamours, and proceeded to conduct them, by such paths as seemed the least likely
to be watched, to the courtyard of Moultrassie Hall. On the road they were joined by several
stout yeoman farmers, either followers of the Peveril family, or friends to the High Church
and Cavalier party; most of whom, alarmed by the news which began to fly fast through the neighbourhood,
were armed with sword and pistol.

Lance Outram halted his party, at the distance, as he himself described it, of a flight-shot
from the house, and advanced, alone, and in silence, to reconnoitre; and having previously
commanded Ditchley and his subterranean allies to come to his assistance whenever he should
whistle, he crept cautiously forward, and soon found that those whom he came to surprise, true
to the discipline which had gained their party such decided superiority during the Civil War,
had posted a sentinel, who paced through the courtyard, piously chanting a psalm-tune, while
his arms, crossed on his bosom, supported a gun of formidable length.

"Now, a true solder," said Lance Outram to himself, "would put a stop to thy snivelling ditty,
by making a broad arrow quiver in your heart, and no great alarm given. But, dang it, I have
not the right spirit for a soldier--I cannot fight a man till my blood's up; and for shooting
him from behind a wall it is cruelly like to stalking a deer. I'll e'en face him, and try what
to make of him."

With this doughty resolution, and taking no farther care to conceal himself, he entered the
courtyard boldly, and was making forward to the front door of the hall, as a matter of course.
But the old Cromwellian, who was on guard, had not so learned his duty. "Who goes there?--Stand,
friend--stand; or, verily, I will shoot thee to death!" were challenges which followed each
other quick, the last being enforced by the levelling and presenting the said long-barrelled
gun with which he was armed.

"Why, what a murrain!" answered Lance. "Is it your fashion to go a-shooting at this time o'
night? Why, this is but a time for bat-fowling."

"Nay, but hark thee, friend," said the experienced sentinel, "I am none of those who do this
work negligently. Thou canst not snare me with thy crafty speech, though thou wouldst make
it to sound simple in mine ear. Of a verity I will shoot, unless thou tell thy name and business."

"Name!" said Lance; "why, what a dickens should it be but Robin Round--honest Robin of Redham;
and for business, an you must needs know, I come on a message from some Parliament man, up
yonder at the Castle, with letters for worshipful Master Bridgenorth of Moultrassie Hall; and
this be the place, as I think; though why ye be marching up and down at his door, like the
sign of a Red Man, with your old firelock there, I cannot so well guess."

"Give me the letters, my friend," said the sentinel, to whom this explanation seemed very natural
and probable, "and I will cause them forthwith to be delivered into his worship's own hand."

Rummaging in his pockets, as if to pull out the letters which never existed, Master Lance approached
within the sentinel's piece, and, before he was aware, suddenly seized him by the collar, whistled
sharp and shrill, and exerting his skill as a wrestler, for which he had been distinguished
in his youth, he stretched his antagonist on his back--the musket for which they struggled
going off in the fall.

The miners rushed into the courtyard at Lance's signal; and hopeless any longer of prosecuting
his design in silence, Lance commanded two of them to secure the prisoner, and the rest to
cheer loudly, and attack the door of the house. Instantly the courtyard of the mansion rang
with the cry of "Peveril of the Peak for ever!" with all the abuse which the Royalists had
invented to cast upon the Roundheads, during so many years of contention; and at the same time,
while some assailed the door with their mining implements, others directed their attack against
the angle, where a kind of porch joined to the main front of the building; and there, in some
degree protected by the projection of the wall, and of a balcony which overhung the porch,
wrought in more security, as well as with more effect, than the others; for the doors being
of oak, thickly studded with nails, offered a more effectual resistance to violence than the
brick-work.

The noise of this hubbub on the outside, soon excited wild alarm and tumult within. Lights
flew from window to window, and voices were heard demanding the cause of the attack; to which
the party cries of those who were in the courtyard afforded a sufficient, or at least the only
answer, which was vouchsafed. At length the window of a projecting staircase opened, and the
voice of Bridgenorth himself demanded authoritatively what the tumult meant, and commanded
the rioters to desist, upon their own proper and immediate peril.

"We want our young master, you canting old thief," was the reply; "and if we have him not instantly,
the topmost stone of your house shall lie as low as the foundation."

"We shall try that presently," said Bridgenorth; "for if there is another blow struck against
the walls of my peaceful house, I will fire my carabine among you, and your blood be upon your
own head. I have a score of friends, well armed with musket and pistol, to defend my house;
and we have both the means and heart, with Heaven's assistance, to repay any violence you can
offer."

"Master Bridgenorth," replied Lance, who, though no soldier, was sportsman enough to comprehend
the advantage which those under cover, and using firearms, must necessarily have over his party,
exposed to their aim, in a great measure, and without means of answering their fire,--"Master
Bridgenorth, let us crave parley with you, and fair conditions. We desire to do you no evil,
but will have back our young master; it is enough that you have got our old one and his lady.
It is foul chasing to kill hart, hind, and fawn; and we will give you some light on the subject
in an instant."

This speech was followed by a great crash amongst the lower windows of the house, according
to a new species of attack which had been suggested by some of the assailants.

"I would take the honest fellow's word, and let young Peveril go," said one of the garrison,
who, carelessly yawning, approached on the inside of the post at which Bridgenorth had stationed
himself.

"Are you mad?" said Bridgenorth; "or do you think me poor enough in spirit to give up the advantages
I now possess over the family of Peveril, for the awe of a parcel of boors, whom the first
discharge will scatter like chaff before the whirlwind?"

"Nay," answered the speaker, who was the same individual that had struck Julian by his resemblance
to the man who called himself Ganlesse, "I love a dire revenge, but we shall buy it somewhat
too dear if these rascals set the house on fire, as they are like to do, while you are parleying
from the window. They have thrown torches or firebrands into the hall; and it is all our friends
can do to keep the flame from catching the wainscoting, which is old and dry."

"Now, may Heaven judge thee for thy lightness of spirit," answered Bridgenorth; "one would
think mischief was so properly thy element, that to thee it was indifferent whether friend
or foe was the sufferer."

So saying, he ran hastily downstairs towards the hall, into which, through broken casements,
and betwixt the iron bars, which prevented human entrance, the assailants had thrust lighted
straw, sufficient to excite much smoke and some fire, and to throw the defenders of the house
into great confusion; insomuch, that of several shots fired hastily from the windows, little
or no damage followed to the besiegers, who, getting warm on the onset, answered the hostile
charges with loud shouts of "Peveril for ever!" and had already made a practicable breach through
the brick-wall of the tenement, through which Lance, Ditchley, and several of the most adventurous
among their followers, made their way into the hall.

The complete capture of the house remained, however, as far off as ever. The defenders mixed
with much coolness and skill that solemn and deep spirit of enthusiasm which sets life at less
than nothing, in comparison to real or supposed duty. From the half-open doors which led into
the hall, they maintained a fire which began to grow fatal. One miner was shot dead; three
or four were wounded; and Lance scarce knew whether he should draw his forces from the house,
and leave it a prey to the flames, or, making a desperate attack on the posts occupied by the
defenders, try to obtain unmolested possession of the place. At this moment, his course of
conduct was determined by an unexpected occurrence, of which it is necessary to trace the cause.

Julian Peveril had been, like other inhabitants of Moultrassie Hall on that momentous night,
awakened by the report of the sentinel's musket, followed by the shouts of his father's vassals
and followers; of which he collected enough to guess that Bridgenorth's house was attacked
with a view to his liberation. Very doubtful of the issue of such an attempt, dizzy with the
slumber from which he had been so suddenly awakened, and confounded with the rapid succession
of events to which he had been lately a witness, he speedily put on a part of his clothes,
and hastened to the window of his apartment. From this he could see nothing to relieve his
anxiety, for it looked towards a quarter different from that on which the attack was made.
He attempted his door; it was locked on the outside; and his perplexity and anxiety became
extreme, when suddenly the lock was turned, and in an underdress, hastily assumed in the moment
of alarm, her hair streaming on her shoulders, her eyes gleaming betwixt fear and resolution,
Alice Bridgenorth rushed into his apartment, and seized his hand with the fervent exclamation,
"Julian, save my father!"

The light which she bore in her hand served to show those features which could rarely have
been viewed by any one without emotion, but which bore an expression irresistible to a lover.

"Alice," he said, "what means this? What is the danger? Where is your father?"

"Do not stay to question," she answered; "but if you would save him, follow me!"

At the same time she led the way, with great speed, half-way down the turret stair case which
led to his room, thence turning through a side door, along a long gallery, to a larger and
wider stair, at the bottom of which stood her father, surrounded by four or five of his friends,
scarce discernible through the smoke of the fire which began to take hold in the hall, as well
as that which arose from the repeated discharge of their own firearms.

Julian saw there was not a moment to be lost, if he meant to be a successful mediator. He rushed
through Bridgenorth's party ere they were aware of his approach, and throwing himself amongst
the assailants who occupied the hall in considerable numbers, he assured them of his personal
safety, and conjured them to depart.

"Not without a few more slices at the Rump, master," answered Lance. "I am principally glad
to see you safe and well; but here is Joe Rimegap shot as dead as a buck in season, and more
of us are hurt; and we'll have revenge, and roast the Puritans like apples for lambswool!"

"Then you shall roast me along with them," said Julian; "for I vow to God, I will not leave
the hall, being bound by parole of honour to abide with Major Bridgenorth till lawfully dismissed."

"Now out on you, an you were ten times a Peveril!" said Ditchley; "to give so many honest fellows
loss and labour on your behalf, and to show them no kinder countenance.--I say, beat up the
fire, and burn all together!"

"Nay, nay; but peace, my masters, and hearken to reason," said Julian; "we are all here in
evil condition, and you will only make it worse by contention. Do you help to put out this
same fire, which will else cost us all dear. Keep yourselves under arms. Let Master Bridgenorth
and me settle some grounds of accommodation, and I trust all will be favourably made up on
both sides; and if not, you shall have my consent and countenance to fight it out; and come
on it what will, I will never forget this night's good service."

He then drew Ditchley and Lance Outram aside, while the rest stood suspended at his appearance
and words, and expressing the utmost thanks and gratitude for what they had already done, urged
them, as the greatest favour which they could do towards him and his father's house, to permit
him to negotiate the terms of his emancipation from thraldom; at the same time forcing on Ditchley
five or six gold pieces, that the brave lads of Bonadventure might drink his health; whilst
to Lance he expressed the warmest sense of his active kindness, but protested he could only
consider it as good service to his house, if he was allowed to manage the matter after his
own fashion.

"Why," answered Lance, "I am well out on it, Master Julian; for it is matter beyond my mastery.
All that I stand to is, that I will see you safe out of this same Moultrassie Hall; for our
old Naunt Ellesmere will else give me but cold comfort when I come home. Truth is, I began
unwillingly; but when I saw the poor fellow Joe shot beside me, why, I thought we should have
some amends. But I put it all in your Honour's hands."

During this colloquy both parties had been amicably employed in extinguishing the fire, which
might otherwise have been fatal to all. It required a general effort to get it under; and both
parties agreed on the necessary labour, with as much unanimity, as if the water they brought
in leathern buckets from the well to throw upon the fire, had some effect in slaking their
mutual hostility.

CHAPTER XXVI

              Necessity--thou best of peacemakers,
              As well as surest prompter of invention--
              Help us to composition!
                                               --ANONYMOUS.

While the fire continued, the two parties laboured in active union, like the jarring factions
of the Jews during the siege of Jerusalem, when compelled to unite in resisting an assault
of the besiegers. But when the last bucket of water had hissed on the few embers that continued
to glimmer--when the sense of mutual hostility, hitherto suspended by a feeling of common danger,
was in its turn rekindled--the parties, mingled as they had hitherto been in one common exertion,
drew off from each other, and began to arrange themselves at opposite sides of the hall, and
handle their weapons, as if for a renewal of the fight.

Bridgenorth interrupted any farther progress of this menaced hostility. "Julian Peveril," he
said, "thou art free to walk thine own path, since thou wilt not walk with me that road which
is more safe, as well as more honourable. But if you do by my counsel, you will get soon beyond
the British seas."

"Ralph Bridgenorth," said one of his friends, "this is but evil and feeble conduct on thine
own part. Wilt thou withhold thy hand from the battle, to defend, from these sons of Belial,
the captive of thy bow and of thy spear? Surely we are enow to deal with them in the security
of the old serpent, until we essay whether the Lord will not give us victory therein."

A hum of stern assent followed; and had not Ganlesse now interfered, the combat would probably
have been renewed. He took the advocate for war apart into one of the window recesses, and
apparently satisfied his objections; for as he returned to his companions, he said to them,
"Our friend hath so well argued this matter, that, verily, since he is of the same mind with
the worthy Major Bridgenorth, I think the youth may be set at liberty."

As no farther objection was offered, it only remained with Julian to thank and reward those
who had been active in his assistance. Having first obtained from Bridgenorth a promise of
indemnity to them for the riot they had committed, a few kind words conveyed his sense of their
services; and some broad pieces, thrust into the hand of Lance Outram, furnished the means
for affording them a holiday. They would have remained to protect him, but, fearful of farther
disorder, and relying entirely on the good faith of Major Bridgenorth, he dismissed them all
except Lance, whom he detained to attend upon him for a few minutes, till he should depart
from Moultrassie. But ere leaving the Hall, he could not repress his desire to speak with Bridgenorth
in secret; and advancing towards him, he expressed such a desire.

Tacitly granting what was asked of him, Bridgenorth led the way to a small summer saloon adjoining
to the Hall, where, with his usual gravity and indifference of manner, he seemed to await in
silence what Peveril had to communicate.

Julian found it difficult, where so little opening was afforded him, to find a tone in which
to open the subjects he had at heart, that should be at once dignified and conciliating. "Major
Bridgenorth," he said at length, "you have been a son, and an affectionate one--You may conceive
my present anxiety--My father!--What has been designed for him?"

"What the law will," answered Bridgenorth. "Had he walked by the counsels which I procured
to be given to him, he might have dwelt safely in the house of his ancestors. His fate is now
beyond my control--far beyond yours. It must be with him as his country decide."

"And my mother?" said Peveril.

"Will consult, as she has ever done, her own duty; and create her own happiness by doing so,"
replied Bridgenorth. "Believe, my designs towards your family are better than they may seem
through the mist which adversity has spread around your house. I may triumph as a man; but
as a man I must also remember, in my hour, that mine enemies have had theirs.--Have you aught
else to say?" he added, after a momentary pause. "You have rejected once, yea, and again, the
hand I stretched out to you. Methinks little more remains between us."

These words, which seemed to cut short farther discussion, were calmly spoken; so that though
they appeared to discourage farther question, they could not interrupt that which still trembled
on Julian's tongue. He made a step or two towards the door; then suddenly returned. "Your daughter?"
he said--"Major Bridgenorth--I should ask--I do ask forgiveness for mentioning her name--but
may I not inquire after her?--May I not express my wishes for her future happiness?"

"Your interest in her is but too flattering," said Bridgenorth; "but you have already chosen
your part; and you must be, in future, strangers to each other. I may have wished it otherwise,
but the hour of grace is passed, during which your compliance with my advice might--I will
speak it plainly--have led to your union. For her happiness--if such a word belongs to mortal
pilgrimage--I shall care for it sufficiently. She leaves this place to-day, under the guardianship
of a sure friend."

"Not of----?" exclaimed Peveril, and stopped short; for he felt he had no right to pronounce
the name which came to his lips.

"Why do you pause?" said Bridgenorth; "a sudden thought is often a wise, almost always an honest
one. With whom did you suppose I meant to entrust my child, that the idea called forth so anxious
an expression?"

"Again I should ask your forgiveness," said Julian, "for meddling where I have little right
to interfere. But I saw a face here that is known to me--the person calls himself Ganlesse--Is
it with him that you mean to entrust your daughter?"

"Even to the person who call himself Ganlesse," said Bridgenorth, without expressing either
anger or surprise.

"And do you know to whom you commit a charge so precious to all who know her, and so dear to
yourself?" said Julian.

"Do you know, who ask me the question?" answered Bridgenorth.

"I own I do not," answered Julian; "but I have seen him in a character so different from that
he now wears, that I feel it my duty to warn you, how you entrust the charge of your child
to one who can alternately play the profligate or the hypocrite, as it suits his own interest
or humour."

Bridgenorth smiled contemptuously. "I might be angry," he said, "with the officious zeal which
supposes that its green conceptions can instruct my grey hairs; but, good Julian, I do but
only ask from you the liberal construction, that I, who have had much converse with mankind,
know with whom I trust what is dearest to me. He of whom thou speakest hath one visage to his
friends, though he may have others to the world, living amongst those before whom honest features
should be concealed under a grotesque vizard; even as in the sinful sports of the day, called
maskings and mummeries, where the wise, if he show himself at all, must be contented to play
the apish and fantastic fool."

"I would only pray your wisdom to beware," said Julian, "of one, who, as he has a vizard for
others, may also have one which can disguise his real features from you yourself."

"This is being over careful, young man," replied Bridgenorth, more shortly than he had hitherto
spoken; "if you would walk by my counsel, you will attend to your own affairs, which, credit
me, deserve all your care, and leave others to the management of theirs."

This was too plain to be misunderstood; and Peveril was compelled to take his leave of Bridgenorth,
and of Moultrassie Hall, without farther parley or explanation. The reader may imagine how
oft he looked back, and tried to guess, amongst the lights which continued to twinkle in various
parts of the building, which sparkle it was that gleamed from the bower of Alice. When the
road turned into another direction, he sunk into deep reverie, from which he was at length
roused by the voice of Lance, who demanded where he intended to quarter for the night. He was
unprepared to answer the question, but the honest keeper himself prompted a solution of the
problem, by requesting that he would occupy a spare bed in the Lodge; to which Julian willingly
agreed. The rest of the inhabitants had retired to rest when they entered; but Dame Ellesmere,
apprised by a messenger of her nephew's hospitable intent, had everything in the best readiness
she could, for the son of her ancient patron. Peveril betook himself to rest; and, notwithstanding
so many subjects of anxiety, slept soundly till the morning was far advanced.

His slumbers were first broken by Lance, who had been long up, and already active in his service.
He informed him, that his horse, arms, and small cloak-bag had been sent from the Castle by
one of Major Bridgenorth's servants, who brought a letter, discharging from the Major's service
the unfortunate Deborah Debbitch, and prohibiting her return to the Hall. The officer of the
House of Commons, escorted by a strong guard, had left Martindale Castle that morning early,
travelling in Sir Geoffrey's carriage--his lady being also permitted to attend on him. To this
he had to add, that the property at the Castle was taken possession of by Master Win-the-fight,
the attorney, from Chesterfield, with other officers of law, in name of Major Bridgenorth,
a large creditor of the unfortunate knight.

Having told these Job's tidings, Lance paused; and, after a moment's hesitation, declared he
was resolved to quit the country, and go up to London along with his young master. Julian argued
the point with him; and insisted he had better stay to take charge of his aunt, in case she
should be disturbed by these strangers. Lance replied, "She would have one with her, who would
protect her well enough; for there was wherewithal to buy protection amongst them. But for
himself, he was resolved to follow Master Julian to the death."

Julian heartily thanked him for his love.

"Nay, it is not altogether out of love neither," said Lance, "though I am as loving as another;
but it is, as it were, partly out of fear, lest I be called over the coals for last night's
matter; for as for the miners, they will never trouble them, as the creatures only act after
their kind."

"I will write in your behalf to Major Bridgenorth, who is bound to afford you protection, if
you have such fear," said Julian.

"Nay, for that matter, it is not altogether fear, more than altogether love," answered the
enigmatical keeper, "although it hath a tasting of both in it. And, to speak plain truth, thus
it is--Dame Debbitch and Naunt Ellesmere have resolved to set up their horses together, and
have made up all their quarrels. And of all ghosts in the world, the worst is, when an old
true-love comes back to haunt a poor fellow like me. Mistress Deborah, though distressed enow
for the loss of her place, has been already speaking of a broken sixpence, or some such token,
as if a man could remember such things for so many years, even if she had not gone over seas,
like woodcock, in the meanwhile."

Julian could scarce forbear laughing. "I thought you too much of a man, Lance, to fear a woman
marrying you whether you would or no."

"It has been many an honest man's luck, for all that," said Lance; "and a woman in the very
house has so many deuced opportunities. And then there would be two upon one; for Naunt, though
high enough when any of your folks are concerned, hath some look to the main chance; and it
seems Mistress Deb is as rich as a Jew."

"And you, Lance," said Julian, "have no mind to marry for cake and pudding."

"No, truly, master," answered Lance, "unless I knew of what dough they were baked. How the
devil do I know how the jade came by so much? And then if she speaks of tokens and love-passages,
let her be the same tight lass I broke the sixpence with, and I will be the same true lad to
her. But I never heard of true love lasting ten years; and hers, if it lives at all, must be
nearer twenty."

"Well, then, Lance," said Julian, "since you are resolved on the thing, we will go to London
together; where, if I cannot retain you in my service, and if my father recovers not these
misfortunes, I will endeavour to promote you elsewhere."

"Nay, nay," said Lance, "I trust to be back to bonny Martindale before it is long, and to keep
the greenwood, as I have been wont to do; for, as to Dame Debbitch, when they have not me for
their common butt, Naunt and she will soon bend bows on each other. So here comes old Dame
Ellesmere with your breakfast. I will but give some directions about the deer to Rough Ralph,
my helper, and saddle my forest pony, and your honour's horse, which is no prime one, and we
will be ready to trot."

Julian was not sorry for this addition to his establishment; for Lance had shown himself, on
the preceding evening, a shrewd and bold fellow, and attached to his master. He therefore set
himself to reconcile his aunt to parting with her nephew for some time. Her unlimited devotion
for "the family," readily induced the old lady to acquiesce in his proposal, though not without
a gentle sigh over the ruins of a castle in the air, which was founded on the well-saved purse
of Mistress Deborah Debbitch. "At any rate," she thought, "it was as well that Lance should
be out of the way of that bold, long-legged, beggarly trollop, Cis Sellok." But to poor Deb
herself, the expatriation of Lance, whom she had looked to as a sailor to a port under his
lee, for which he can run, if weather becomes foul, was a second severe blow, following close
on her dismissal from the profitable service of Major Bridgenorth.

Julian visited the disconsolate damsel, in hopes of gaining some light upon Bridgenorth's projects
regarding his daughter--the character of this Ganlesse--and other matters, with which her residence
in the family might have made her acquainted; but he found her by far too much troubled in
mind to afford him the least information. The name of Ganlesse she did not seem to recollect--that
of Alice rendered her hysterical--that of Bridgenorth, furious. She numbered up the various
services she had rendered in the family--and denounced the plague of swartness to the linen--of
leanness to the poultry--of dearth and dishonour to the housekeeping--and of lingering sickness
and early death to Alice;--all which evils, she averred, had only been kept off by her continued,
watchful, and incessant cares.--Then again turning to the subject of the fugitive Lance, she
expressed such a total contempt of that mean-spirited fellow, in a tone between laughing and
crying, as satisfied Julian it was not a topic likely to act as a sedative; and that, therefore,
unless he made a longer stay than the urgent state of his affairs permitted, he was not likely
to find Mistress Deborah in such a state of composure as might enable him to obtain from her
any rational or useful information.

Lance, who good-naturedly took upon himself the whole burden of Dame Debbitch's mental alienation,
or "taking on," as such fits of passio hysterica are usually termed in the country, had too
much feeling to present himself before the victim of her own sensibility, and of his obduracy.
He therefore intimated to Julian, by his assistant Ralph, that the horses stood saddled behind
the Lodge, and that all was ready for their departure.

Julian took the hint, and they were soon mounted, and clearing the road, at a rapid trot, in
the direction of London; but not by the most usual route. Julian calculated that the carriage
in which his father was transported would travel slowly; and it was his purpose, if possible,
to get to London before it should arrive there, in order to have time to consult, with the
friends of his family, what measures should be taken in his father's behalf.

In this manner they advanced a day's journey towards London; at the conclusion of which, Julian
found his resting-place in a small inn upon the road. No one came, at the first call, to attend
upon the guests and their horses, although the house was well lighted up; and there was a prodigious
chattering in the kitchen, such as can only be produced by a French cook when his mystery is
in the very moment of projection. It instantly occurred to Julian--so rare was the ministry
of these Gallic artists at that time--that the clamour he heard must necessarily be produced
by the Sieur Chaubert, on whose plats he had lately feasted, along with Smith and Ganlesse.

One, or both of these, were therefore probably in the little inn; and if so, he might have
some opportunity to discover their real purpose and character. How to avail himself of such
a meeting he knew not; but chance favoured him more than he could have expected.

"I can scarce receive you, gentlefolks," said the landlord, who at length appeared at the door;
"here be a sort of quality in my house to-night, whom less than all will not satisfy; nor all
neither, for that matter."

"We are but plain fellows, landlord," said Julian; "we are bound for Moseley-market, and can
get no farther to-night. Any hole will serve us, no matter what."

"Why," said the honest host, "if that be the case, I must e'en put one of you behind the bar,
though the gentlemen have desired to be private; the other must take heart of grace and help
me at the tap."

"The tap for me," said Lance, without waiting his master's decision. "It is an element which
I could live and die in."

"The bar, then, for me," said Peveril; and stepping back, whispered to Lance to exchange cloaks
with him, desirous, if possible, to avoid being recognised.

The exchange was made in an instant; and presently afterwards the landlord brought a light;
and as he guided Julian into his hostelry, cautioned him to sit quiet in the place where he
should stow him; and if he was discovered, to say that he was one of the house, and leave him
to make it good. "You will hear what the gallants say," he added; "but I think thou wilt carry
away but little on it; for when it is not French, it is Court gibberish; and that is as hard
to construe."

The bar, into which our hero was inducted on these conditions, seemed formed, with respect
to the public room, upon the principle of a citadel, intended to observe and bridle a rebellious
capital. Here sat the host on the Saturday evenings, screened from the observation of his guests,
yet with the power of observing both their wants and their behaviour, and also that of overhearing
their conversation--a practice which he was much addicted to, being one of that numerous class
of philanthropists, to whom their neighbours' business is of as much consequence, or rather
more, than their own.

Here he planted his new guest, with a repeated caution not to disturb the gentlemen by speech
or motion; and a promise that he should be speedily accommodated with a cold buttock of beef,
and a tankard of home-brewed. And here he left him with no other light than that which glimmered
from the well-illuminated apartment within, through a sort of shuttle which accommodated the
landlord with a view into it.

This situation, inconvenient enough in itself, was, on the present occasion, precisely what
Julian would have selected. He wrapped himself in the weather-beaten cloak of Lance Outram,
which had been stained, by age and weather, into a thousand variations from its original Lincoln
green; and with as little noise as he could, set himself to observe the two inmates, who had
engrossed to themselves the whole of the apartment, which was usually open to the public. They
sat by a table well covered with such costly rarities, as could only have been procured by
much forecast, and prepared by the exquisite Mons. Chaubert; to which both seemed to do much
justice.

Julian had little difficulty in ascertaining, that one of the travellers was, as he had anticipated,
the master of the said Chaubert, or, as he was called by Ganlesse, Smith; the other, who faced
him, he had never seen before. This last was dressed like a gallant of the first order. His
periwig, indeed, as he travelled on horseback, did not much exceed in size the bar-wig of a
modern lawyer; but then the essence which he shook from it with every motion, impregnated a
whole apartment, which was usually only perfumed by that vulgar herb, tobacco. His riding-coat
was laced in the newest and most courtly style; and Grammont himself might have envied the
embroidery of his waistcoat, and the peculiar cut of his breeches, which buttoned above the
knee, permitting the shape of a very handsome leg to be completely seen. This, by the proprietor
thereof, had been stretched out upon a stool, and he contemplated its proportions, from time
to time, with infinite satisfaction.

The conversation between these worthies was so interesting, that we propose to assign to it
another chapter.

CHAPTER XXVII

         ----This is some creature of the elements,
         Most like your sea-gull. He can wheel and whistle
         His screaming song, e'en when the storm is loudest--
         Take for his sheeted couch the restless foam
         Of the wild wave-crest--slumber in the calm,
         And daily with the storm. Yet 'tis a gull,
         An arrant gull, with all this.
                                               --THE CHAMPION.

"And here is to thee," said the fashionable gallant whom we have described, "honest Tom; and
a cup of welcome to thee out of Looby-land. Why, thou hast been so long in the country, that
thou hast got a bumpkinly clod-compelling sort of look thyself. That greasy doublet fits thee
as if it were thy reserved Sunday's apparel; and the points seem as if they were stay-laces
bought for thy true-love Marjory. I marvel thou canst still relish a ragout. Methinks now,
to a stomach bound in such a jacket, eggs and bacon were a diet more conforming."

"Rally away, my good lord, while wit lasts," answered his companion; "yours is not the sort
of ammunition which will bear much expenditure. Or rather, tell me news from Court, since we
have met so opportunely."

"You would have asked me these an hour ago," said the lord, "had not your very soul been under
Chaubert's covered dishes. You remembered King's affairs will keep cool, and entre-mets must
be eaten hot."

"Not so, my lord; I only kept common talk whilst that eavesdropping rascal of a landlord was
in the room; so that, now the coast is clear once more, I pray you for news from Court."

"The Plot is nonsuited," answered the courtier--"Sir George Wakeman acquitted--the witnesses
discredited by the jury--Scroggs, who ranted on one side, is now ranting on t'other."

"Rat the Plot, Wakeman, witnesses, Papists, and Protestants, all together! Do you think I care
for such trash as that?--Till the Plot comes up the Palace backstair, and gets possession of
old Rowley's own imagination, I care not a farthing who believes or disbelieves. I hang by
him will bear me out."

"Well, then," said the lord, "the next news is Rochester's disgrace."

"Disgraced!--How, and for what? The morning I came off he stood as fair as any one."

"That's over--the epitaph[*] has broken his neck--and now he may write one for his own Court
favour, for it is dead and buried."

[*] The epitaph alluded to is the celebrated epigram made by Rochester
    on Charles II. It was composed at the King's request, who
    nevertheless resented its poignancy.

"The epitaph!" exclaimed Tom; "why, I was by when it was made; and it passed for an excellent
good jest with him whom it was made upon."

"Ay, so it did amongst ourselves," answered his companion; "but it got abroad, and had a run
like a mill-race. It was in every coffee-house, and in half the diurnals. Grammont translated
it into French too; and there is no laughing at so sharp a jest, when it is dinned into your
ears on all sides. So disgraced is the author; and but for his Grace of Buckingham, the Court
would be as dull as my Lord Chancellor's wig."

"Or as the head it covers.--Well, my lord, the fewer at Court, there is the more room for those
that can bustle there. But there are two mainstrings of Shaftesbury's fiddle broken--the Popish
Plot fallen into discredit--and Rochester disgraced. Changeful times--but here is to the little
man who shall mend them."

"I apprehend you," replied his lordship; "and meet your health with my love. Trust me, my lord
loves you, and longs for you.--Nay, I have done you reason.--By your leave, the cup is with
me. Here is to his buxom Grace of Bucks."

"As blithe a peer," said Smith, "as ever turned night to day. Nay, it shall be an overflowing
bumper, an you will; and I will drink it super naculum.--And how stands the great Madam?"[*]

[*] The Duchess of Portsmouth, Charles II.'s favourite mistress; very
    unpopular at the time of the Popish Plot, as well from her
    religion as her country, being a Frenchwoman and a Catholic.

"Stoutly against all change," answered the lord--"Little Anthony[*] can make nought of her."

[*] Anthony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury, the politician and
    intriguer of the period.

"Then he shall bring her influence to nought. Hark in thine ear. Thou knowest----" (Here he
whispered so low that Julian could not catch the sound.)

"Know him?" answered the other--"Know Ned of the Island?--To be sure I do."

"He is the man that shall knot the great fiddle-strings that have snapped. Say I told you so;
and thereupon I give thee his health."

"And thereupon I pledge thee," said the young nobleman, "which on any other argument I were
loath to do--thinking of Ned as somewhat the cut of a villain."

"Granted, man--granted," said the other,--"a very thorough-paced rascal; but able, my lord,
able and necessary; and, in this plan, indispensable.--Pshaw!--This champagne turns stronger
as it gets older, I think."

"Hark, mine honest fellow," said the courtier; "I would thou wouldst give me some item of all
this mystery. Thou hast it, I know; for whom do men entrust but trusty Chiffinch?"

"It is your pleasure to say so, my lord," answered Smith (whom we shall hereafter call by his
real name of Chiffinch) with such drunken gravity, for his speech had become a little altered
by his copious libations in the course of the evening,--"few men know more, or say less, than
I do; and it well becomes my station. Conticuere omnes, as the grammar hath it--all men should
learn to hold their tongue."

"Except with a friend, Tom--except with a friend. Thou wilt never be such a dogbolt as to refuse
a hint to a friend? Come, you get too wise and statesman-like for your office.--The ligatures
of thy most peasantly jacket there are like to burst with thy secret. Come, undo a button,
man; it is for the health of thy constitution--Let out a reef; and let thy chosen friend know
what is meditating. Thou knowest I am as true as thyself to little Anthony, if he can but get
uppermost."

"If, thou lordly infidel!" said Chiffinch--"talk'st thou to me of ifs?--There is neither if
nor and in the matter. The great Madam shall be pulled a peg down--the great Plot screwed a
peg or two up. Thou knowest Ned?--Honest Ned had a brother's death to revenge."

"I have heard so," said the nobleman; "and that his persevering resentment of that injury was
one of the few points which seemed to be a sort of heathenish virtue in him."

"Well," continued Chiffinch, "in manoeuvring to bring about this revenge, which he hath laboured
at many a day, he hath discovered a treasure."

"What!--In the Isle of Man?" said his companion.

"Assure yourself of it.--She is a creature so lovely, that she needs but be seen to put down
every one of the favourites, from Portsmouth and Cleveland down to that threepenny baggage,
Mistress Nelly."

"By my word, Chiffinch," said my lord, "that is a reinforcement after the fashion of thine
own best tactics. But bethink thee, man! To make such a conquest, there wants more than a cherry-cheek
and a bright eye--there must be wit--wit, man, and manners, and a little sense besides, to
keep influence when it is gotten."

"Pshaw! will you tell me what goes to this vocation?" said Chiffinch. "Here, pledge me her
health in a brimmer.--Nay, you shall do it on knees, too.--Never such a triumphant beauty was
seen--I went to church on purpose, for the first time these ten years--Yet I lie, it was not
to church neither--it was to chapel."

"To chapel!--What the devil, is she a Puritan?" exclaimed the other courtier.

"To be sure she is. Do you think I would be accessory to bringing a Papist into favour in these
times, when, as my good Lord said in the House, there should not be a Popish manservant, nor
a Popish maid-servant, not so much as dog or cat, left to bark or mew about the King!"[*]

[*] Such was the extravagance of Shaftesbury's eloquence.

"But consider, Chiffie, the dislikelihood of her pleasing," said the noble courtier.--"What!
old Rowley, with his wit, and love of wit--his wildness, and love of wildness--he form a league
with a silly, scrupulous, unidea'd Puritan!--Not if she were Venus."

"Thou knowest nought of the matter," answered Chiffinch. "I tell thee, the fine contrast between
the seeming saint and falling sinner will give zest to the old gentleman's inclination. If
I do not know him, who does?--Her health, my lord, on your bare knee, as you would live to
be of the bedchamber."

"I pledge you most devoutly," answered his friend. "But you have not told me how the acquaintance
is to be made; for you cannot, I think, carry her to Whitehall."

"Aha, my dear lord, you would have the whole secret! but that I cannot afford--I can spare
a friend a peep at my ends, but no one must look on the means by which they are achieved."--So
saying, he shook his drunken head most wisely.

The villainous design which this discourse implied, and which his heart told him was designed
against Alice Bridgenorth, stirred Julian so extremely, that he involuntarily shifted his posture,
and laid his hand on his sword hilt.

Chiffinch heard a rustling, and broke off, exclaiming, "Hark!--Zounds, something moved--I trust
I have told the tale to no ears but thine."

"I will cut off any which have drunk in but a syllable of thy words," said the nobleman; and
raising a candle, he took a hasty survey of the apartment. Seeing nothing that could incur
his menaced resentment, he replaced the light and continued:--"Well, suppose the Belle Louise
de Querouaille[*] shoots from her high station in the firmament, how will you rear up the downfallen
Plot again--for without that same Plot, think of it as thou wilt, we have no change of hands--and
matters remain as they were, with a Protestant courtezan instead of a Papist--Little Anthony
can but little speed without that Plot of his--I believe, in my conscience, he begot it himself."[+]

[*] Charles's principal mistress en titre. She was created Duchess
    of Portsmouth.

[+] Shaftesbury himself is supposed to have said that he knew not who
    was the inventor of the Plot, but that he himself had all the
    advantage of the discovery.

"Whoever begot it," said Chiffinch, "he hath adopted it; and a thriving babe it has been to
him. Well, then, though it lies out of my way, I will play Saint Peter again--up with t'other
key, and unlock t'other mystery."

"Now thou speakest like a good fellow; and I will, with my own hands, unwire this fresh flask,
to begin a brimmer to the success of thy achievement."

"Well, then," continued the communicative Chiffinch, "thou knowest that they have long had
a nibbling at the old Countess of Derby.--So Ned was sent down--he owes her an old accompt,
thou knowest--with private instructions to possess himself of the island, if he could, by help
of some of his old friends. He hath ever kept up spies upon her; and happy man was he, to think
his hour of vengeance was come so nigh. But he missed his blow; and the old girl being placed
on her guard, was soon in a condition to make Ned smoke for it. Out of the island he came with
little advantage for having entered it; when, by some means--for the devil, I think, stands
ever his friend--he obtained information concerning a messenger, whom her old Majesty of Man
had sent to London to make party in her behalf. Ned stuck himself to this fellow--a raw, half-bred
lad, son of an old blundering Cavalier of the old stamp, down in Derbyshire--and so managed
the swain, that he brought him to the place where I was waiting, in anxious expectation of
the pretty one I told you of. By Saint Anthony, for I will swear by no meaner oath, I stared
when I saw this great lout--not that the fellow is so ill-looked neither--I stared like--like--good
now, help me to a simile."

"Like Saint Anthony's pig, an it were sleek," said the young lord; "your eyes, Chiffie, have
the very blink of one. But what hath all this to do with the Plot? Hold, I have had wine enough."

"You shall not balk me," said Chiffinch; and a jingling was heard, as if he were filling his
comrade's glass with a very unsteady hand. "Hey--What the devil is the matter?--I used to carry
my glass steady--very steady."

"Well, but this stranger?"

"Why, he swept at game and ragout as he would at spring beef or summer mutton. Never saw so
unnurtured a cub--Knew no more what he ate than an infidel--I cursed him by my gods when I
saw Chaubert's chef-d' oeuvres glutted down so indifferent a throat. We took the freedom to
spice his goblet a little, and ease him of his packet of letters; and the fool went on his
way the next morning with a budget artificially filled with grey paper. Ned would have kept
him, in hopes to have made a witness of him, but the boy was not of that mettle."

"How will you prove your letters?" said the courtier.

"La you there, my lord," said Chiffinch; "one may see with half an eye, for all your laced
doublet, that you have been of the family of Furnival's, before your brother's death sent you
to Court. How prove the letters?--Why, we have but let the sparrow fly with a string round
his foot.--We have him again so soon as we list."

"Why, thou art turned a very Machiavel, Chiffinch," said his friend. "But how if the youth
proved restive?--I have heard these Peak men have hot heads and hard hands."

"Trouble not yourself--that was cared for, my lord," said Chiffinch--"his pistols might bark,
but they could not bite."

"Most exquisite Chiffinch, thou art turned micher as well as padder--Canst both rob a man and
kidnap him!"

"Micher and padder--what terms be these?" said Chiffinch. "Methinks these are sounds to lug
out upon. You will have me angry to the degree of falling foul--robber and kidnapper!"

"You mistake verb for noun-substantive," replied his lordship; "I said rob and kidnap--a man
may do either once and away without being professional."

"But not without spilling a little foolish noble blood, or some such red-coloured gear," said
Chiffinch, starting up.

"Oh yes," said his lordship; "all this may be without these dire consequences, and as you will
find to-morrow, when you return to England; for at present you are in the land of Champagne,
Chiffie; and that you may continue so, I drink thee this parting cup to line thy nightcap."

"I do not refuse your pledge," said Chiffinch; "but I drink to thee in dudgeon and in hostility--It
is cup of wrath, and a gage of battle. To-morrow, by dawn, I will have thee at point of fox,
wert thou the last of the Savilles.--What the devil! think you I fear you because you are a lord?"

"Not so, Chiffinch," answered his companion. "I know thou fearest nothing but beans and bacon,
washed down with bumpkin-like beer.--Adieu, sweet Chiffinch--to bed--Chiffinch--to bed."

So saying, he lifted a candle, and left the apartment. And Chiffinch, whom the last draught
had nearly overpowered, had just strength enough left to do the same, muttering, as he staggered
out, "Yes, he shall answer it.--Dawn of day? D--n me--It is come already--Yonder's the dawn--No,
d--n me, 'tis the fire glancing on the cursed red lattice--It is the smell of the brandy in
this cursed room--It could not be the wine--Well, old Rowley shall send me no more errands
to the country again--Steady, steady."

So saying, he reeled out of the apartment, leaving Peveril to think over the extraordinary
conversation he had just heard.

The name of Chiffinch, the well-known minister of Charles's pleasures, was nearly allied to
the part which he seemed about to play in the present intrigue; but that Christian, whom he
had always supposed a Puritan as strict as his brother-in-law, Bridgenorth, should be associated
with him in a plot so infamous, seemed alike unnatural and monstrous. The near relationship
might blind Bridgenorth, and warrant him in confiding his daughter to such a man's charge;
but what a wretch he must be, that could coolly meditate such an ignominious abuse of his trust!
In doubt whether he could credit for a moment the tale which Chiffinch had revealed, he hastily
examined his packet, and found that the sealskin case in which it had been wrapt up, now only
contained an equal quantity of waste paper. If he had wanted farther confirmation, the failure
of the shot which he fired at Bridgenorth, and of which the wadding only struck him, showed
that his arms had been tampered with. He examined the pistol which still remained charged,
and found that the ball had been drawn. "May I perish," said he to himself, "amid these villainous
intrigues, but thou shalt be more surely loaded, and to better purpose! The contents of these
papers may undo my benefactress--their having been found on me, may ruin my father--that I
have been the bearer of them, may cost, in these fiery times, my own life--that I care least
for--they form a branch of the scheme laid against the honour and happiness of a creature so
innocent, that it is almost sin to think of her within the neighbourhood of such infamous knaves.
I will recover the letters at all risks--But how?--that is to be thought on.--Lance is stout
and trusty; and when a bold deed is once resolved upon, there never yet lacked the means of
executing it."

His host now entered, with an apology for his long absence; and after providing Peveril with
some refreshments, invited him to accept, for his night-quarters, the accommodation of a remote
hayloft, which he was to share with his comrade; professing, at the same time, he could hardly
have afforded them this courtesy, but out of deference to the exquisite talents of Lance Outram,
as assistant at the tap; where, indeed, it seems probable that he, as well as the admiring
landlord, did that evening contrive to drink nearly as much liquor as they drew.

But Lance was a seasoned vessel, on whom liquor made no lasting impression; so that when Peveril
awaked that trusty follower at dawn, he found him cool enough to comprehend and enter into
the design which he expressed, of recovering the letters which had been abstracted from his person.

Having considered the whole matter with much attention, Lance shrugged, grinned, and scratched
his head; and at length manfully expressed his resolution. "Well, my naunt speaks truth in
her old saw----

 'He that serves Peveril maunna be slack,
  Neither for weather, nor yet for wrack.'

And then again, my good dame was wont to say, that whenever Peveril was in a broil, Outram
was in a stew; so I will never bear a base mind, but even hold a part with you as my fathers
have done with yours, for four generations, whatever more."

"Spoken like a most gallant Outram," said Julian; "and were we but rid of that puppy lord and
his retinue, we two could easily deal with the other three."

"Two Londoners and a Frenchman?" said Lance,--"I would take them in mine own hand. And as for
my Lord Saville, as they call him, I heard word last night that he and all his men of gilded
gingerbread--that looked at an honest fellow like me, as if they were the ore and I the dross--are
all to be off this morning to some races, or such-like junketings, about Tutbury. It was that
brought him down here, where he met this other civet-cat by accident."

In truth, even as Lance spoke, a trampling was heard of horses in the yard; and from the hatch
of their hayloft they beheld Lord Saville's attendants mustered, and ready to set out as soon
as he could make his appearance.

"So ho, Master Jeremy," said one of the fellows, to a sort of principal attendant, who just
came out of the house, "methinks the wine has proved a sleeping cup to my lord this morning."

"No," answered Jeremy, "he hath been up before light writing letters for London; and to punish
thy irreverence, thou, Jonathan, shalt be the man to ride back with them."

"And so to miss the race?" said Jonathan sulkily; "I thank you for this good turn, good Master
Jeremy; and hang me if I forget it."

Farther discussion was cut short by the appearance of the young nobleman, who, as he came out
of the inn, said to Jeremy, "These be the letters. Let one of the knaves ride to London for
life and death, and deliver them as directed; and the rest of them get to horse and follow me."

Jeremy gave Jonathan the packet with a malicious smile; and the disappointed groom turned his
horse's head sullenly towards London, while Lord Saville, and the rest of his retinue, rode
briskly off in an opposite direction, pursued by the benedictions of the host and his family,
who stood bowing and courtesying at the door, in gratitude, doubtless, for the receipt of an
unconscionable reckoning.

It was full three hours after their departure, that Chiffinch lounged into the room in which
they had supped, in a brocade nightgown, and green velvet cap, turned up with the most costly
Brussels lace. He seemed but half awake; and it was with drowsy voice that he called for a
cup of cold small beer. His manner and appearance were those of a man who had wrestled hard
with Bacchus on the preceding evening, and had scarce recovered the effects of his contest
with the jolly god. Lance, instructed by his master to watch the motions of the courtier, officiously
attended with the cooling beverage he called for, pleading, as an excuse to the landlord, his
wish to see a Londoner in his morning-gown and cap.

No sooner had Chiffinch taken his morning draught, than he inquired after Lord Saville.

"His lordship was mounted and away by peep of dawn," was Lance's reply.

"What the devil!" exclaimed Chiffinch; "why, this is scarce civil.--What! off for the races
with his whole retinue?"

"All but one," replied Lance, "whom his lordship sent back to London with letters."

"To London with letters!" said Chiffinch. "Why, I am for London, and could have saved his express
a labour.--But stop--hold--I begin to recollect--d----n, can I have blabbed?--I have--I have--I
remember it all now--I have blabbed; and to the very weasel of the Court, who sucks the yelk
out of every man's secret. Furies and fire--that my afternoons should ruin my mornings thus!--I
must turn boon companion and good fellow in my cups--and have my confidences and my quarrels--my
friends and my enemies, with a plague to me, as if any one could do a man much good or harm
but his own self. His messenger must be stopped, though--I will put a spoke in his wheel.--Hark
ye, drawer-fellow--call my groom hither--call Tom Beacon."

Lance obeyed; but failed not, when he had introduced the domestic, to remain in the apartment,
in order to hear what should pass betwixt him and his master.

"Hark ye, Tom," said Chiffinch, "here are five pieces for you."

"What's to be done now, I trow?" said Tom, without even the ceremony of returning thanks, which
he was probably well aware would not be received even in part payment of the debt he was incurring.

"Mount your fleet nag, Tom--ride like the devil--overtake the groom whom Lord Saville despatched
to London this morning--lame his horse--break his bones--fill him as drunk as the Baltic sea;
or do whatever may best and most effectively stop his journey.--Why does the lout stand there
without answering me? Dost understand me?"

"Why, ay, Master Chiffinch," said Tom; "and so I am thinking doth this honest man here, who
need not have heard quite so much of your counsel, an it had been your will."

"I am bewitched this morning," said Chiffinch to himself, "or else the champagne runs in my
head still. My brain has become the very lowlands of Holland--a gill-cup would inundate it--Hark
thee, fellow," he added, addressing Lance, "keep my counsel--there is a wager betwixt Lord
Saville and me, which of us shall first have a letter in London. Here is to drink my health,
and bring luck on my side. Say nothing of it; but help Tom to his nag.--Tom, ere thou startest
come for thy credentials--I will give thee a letter to the Duke of Bucks, that may be evidence
thou wert first in town."

Tom Beacon ducked and exited; and Lance, after having made some show of helping him to horse,
ran back to tell his master the joyful intelligence, that a lucky accident had abated Chiffinch's
party to their own number.

Peveril immediately ordered his horses to be got ready; and, so soon as Tom Beacon was despatched
towards London, on a rapid trot, had the satisfaction to observe Chiffinch, with his favourite
Chaubert, mount to pursue the same journey, though at a more moderate rate. He permitted them
to attain such a distance, that they might be dogged without suspicion; then paid his reckoning,
mounted his horse, and followed, keeping his men carefully in view, until he should come to
a place proper for the enterprise which he meditated.

It had been Peveril's intention, that when they came to some solitary part of the road, they
should gradually mend their pace, until they overtook Chaubert--that Lance Outram should then
drop behind, in order to assail the man of spits and stoves, while he himself, spurring onwards,
should grapple with Chiffinch. But this scheme presupposed that the master and servant should
travel in the usual manner--the latter riding a few yards behind the former. Whereas, such
and so interesting were the subjects of discussion betwixt Chiffinch and the French cook, that,
without heeding the rules of etiquette, they rode on together, amicably abreast, carrying on
a conversation on the mysteries of the table, which the ancient Comus, or a modern gastronome,
might have listened to with pleasure. It was therefore necessary to venture on them both at once.

For this purpose, when they saw a long tract of road before them, unvaried by the least appearance
of man, beast, or human habitation, they began to mend their pace, that they might come up
to Chiffinch, without giving him any alarm, by a sudden and suspicious increase of haste. In
this manner they lessened the distance which separated them till they were within about twenty
yards, when Peveril, afraid that Chiffinch might recognise him at a nearer approach, and so
trust to his horse's heels, made Lance the signal to charge.

At the sudden increase of their speed, and the noise with which it was necessarily attended,
Chiffinch looked around, but had time to do no more, for Lance, who had pricked his pony (which
was much more speedy than Julian's horse) into full gallop, pushed, without ceremony, betwixt
the courtier and his attendant; and ere Chaubert had time for more than one exclamation, he
upset both horse and Frenchman,--morbleu! thrilling from his tongue as he rolled on the ground
amongst the various articles of his occupation, which, escaping from the budget in which he
bore them, lay tumbled upon the highway in strange disorder; while Lance, springing from his
palfrey, commanded his foeman to be still, under no less a penalty than that of death, if he
attempted to rise.

Before Chiffinch could avenge his trusty follower's downfall, his own bridle was seized by
Julian, who presented a pistol with the other hand, and commanded him to stand or die.

Chiffinch, though effeminate, was no coward. He stood still as commanded, and said, with firmness,
"Rogue, you have taken me at surprise. If you are highwaymen, there is my purse. Do us no bodily
harm, and spare the budget of spices and sauces."

"Look you, Master Chiffinch," said Peveril, "this is no time for dallying. I am no highwayman,
but a man of honour. Give me back that packet which you stole from me the other night; or,
by all that is good, I will send a brace of balls through you, and search for it at leisure."

"What night?--What packet?" answered Chiffinch, confused; yet willing to protract the time
for the chance of assistance, or to put Peveril off his guard. "I know nothing of what you
mean. If you are a man of honour, let me draw my sword, and I will do you right, as a gentleman
should do to another."

"Dishonourable rascal!" said Peveril, "you escape not in this manner. You plundered me when
you had me at odds; and I am not the fool to let my advantage escape, now that my turn is come.
Yield up the packet; and then, if you will, I will fight you on equal terms. But first," he
reiterated, "yield up the packet, or I will instantly send you where the tenor of your life
will be hard to answer for."

The tone of Peveril's voice, the fierceness of his eye, and the manner in which he held the
loaded weapon, within a hand's-breadth of Chiffinch's head, convinced the last there was neither
room for compromise, nor time for trifling. He thrust his hand into a side pocket of his cloak,
and with visible reluctance, produced those papers and despatches with which Julian had been
entrusted by the Countess of Derby.

"They are five in number," said Julian; "and you have given me only four. Your life depends
on full restitution."

"It escaped from my hand," said Chiffinch, producing the missing document--"There it is. Now,
sir, your pleasure is fulfilled, unless," he added sulkily, "you design either murder or farther
robbery."

"Base wretch!" said Peveril, withdrawing his pistol, yet keeping a watchful eye on Chiffinch's
motions, "thou art unworthy any honest man's sword; and yet, if you dare draw your own, as
you proposed but now, I am willing to give you a chance upon fair equality of terms."

"Equality!" said Chiffinch sneeringly; "yes, a proper equality--sword and pistol against single
rapier, and two men upon one, for Chaubert is no fighter. No sir; I shall seek amends upon
some more fitting occasion, and with more equal weapons."

"By backbiting, or by poison, base pander!" said Julian; "these are thy means of vengeance.
But mark me--I know your vile purpose respecting a lady who is too worthy that her name should
be uttered in such a worthless ear. Thou hast done me one injury, and thou see'st I have repaid
it. But prosecute this farther villainy, and be assured I will put thee to death like a foul
reptile, whose very slaver is fatal to humanity. Rely upon this, as if Machiavel had sworn
it; for so surely as you keep your purpose, so surely will I prosecute my revenge.--Follow
me, Lance, and leave him to think on what I have told him."

Lance had, after the first shock, sustained a very easy part in this recontre; for all he had
to do, was to point the butt of his whip, in the manner of a gun, at the intimidated Frenchman,
who, lying on his back, and gazing at random on the skies, had as little the power or purpose
of resistance, as any pig which had ever come under his own slaughter-knife.

Summoned by his master from the easy duty of guarding such an unresisting prisoner, Lance remounted
his horse, and they both rode off, leaving their discomfited antagonists to console themselves
for their misadventure as they best could. But consolation was hard to come by in the circumstances.
The French artist had to lament the dispersion of his spices, and the destruction of his magazine
of sauces--an enchanter despoiled of his magic wand and talisman, could scarce have been in
more desperate extremity. Chiffinch had to mourn the downfall of his intrigue, and its premature
discovery. "To this fellow, at least," he thought, "I can have bragged none--here my evil genius
alone has betrayed me. With this infernal discovery, which may cost me so dear on all hands,
champagne had nought to do. If there be a flask left unbroken, I will drink it after dinner,
and try if it may not even yet suggest some scheme of redemption and of revenge."

With this manly resolution, he prosecuted his journey to London.

We must now transport the reader to the magnificent hotel in ----Street, inhabited at this
time by the celebrated George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, whom Dryden has doomed to a painful
immortality by the few lines which we have prefixed to this chapter. Amid the gay and licentious
of the laughing Court of Charles, the Duke was the most licentious and most gay; yet, while
expending a princely fortune, a strong constitution, and excellent talents, in pursuit of frivolous
pleasures, he nevertheless nourished deeper and more extensive designs; in which he only failed
from want of that fixed purpose and regulated perseverance essential to all important enterprises,
but particularly in politics.

It was long past noon; and the usual hour of the Duke's levee--if anything could be termed
usual where all was irregular--had been long past. His hall was filled with lackeys and footmen,
in the most splendid liveries; the interior apartments, with the gentlemen and pages of his
household, arrayed as persons of the first quality, and, in that respect, rather exceeding
than falling short of the Duke in personal splendour. But his antechamber, in particular, might
be compared to a gathering of eagles to the slaughter, were not the simile too dignified to
express that vile race, who, by a hundred devices all tending to one common end, live upon
the wants of needy greatness, or administer to the pleasures of summer-teeming luxury, or stimulate
the wild wishes of lavish and wasteful extravagance, by devising new modes and fresh motives
of profusion. There stood the projector, with his mysterious brow, promising unbounded wealth
to whomsoever might choose to furnish the small preliminary sum necessary to change egg-shells
into the great arcanum. There was Captain Seagull, undertaker for a foreign settlement, with
the map under his arm of Indian or American kingdoms, beautiful as the primitive Eden, waiting
the bold occupants, for whom a generous patron should equip two brigantines and a fly-boat.
Thither came, fast and frequent, the gamesters, in their different forms and calling. This,
light, young, gay in appearance, the thoughtless youth of wit and pleasure--the pigeon rather
than the rook--but at heart the same sly, shrewd, cold-blooded calculator, as yonder old hard-featured
professor of the same science, whose eyes are grown dim with watching of the dice at midnight;
and whose fingers are even now assisting his mental computation of chances and of odds. The
fine arts, too--I would it were otherwise--have their professors amongst this sordid train.
The poor poet, half ashamed, in spite of habit, of the part which he is about to perform, and
abashed by consciousness at once of his base motive and his shabby black coat, lurks in yonder
corner for the favourable moment to offer his dedication. Much better attired, the architect
presents his splendid vision of front and wings, and designs a palace, the expense of which
may transfer his employer to a jail. But uppermost of all, the favourite musician, or singer,
who waits on my lord to receive, in solid gold, the value of the dulcet sounds which solaced
the banquet of the preceding evening.

Such, and many such like, were the morning attendants of the Duke of Buckingham--all genuine
descendants of the daughter of the horse-leech, whose cry is "Give, give."

But the levee of his Grace contained other and very different characters; and was indeed as
various as his own opinions and pursuits. Besides many of the young nobility and wealthy gentry
of England, who made his Grace the glass at which they dressed themselves for the day, and
who learned from him how to travel, with the newest and best grace, the general Road to Ruin;
there were others of a graver character--discarded statesmen, political spies, opposition orators,
servile tools of administration, men who met not elsewhere, but who regarded the Duke's mansion
as a sort of neutral ground; sure, that if he was not of their opinion to-day, this very circumstance
rendered it most likely he should think with them to-morrow. The Puritans themselves did not
shun intercourse with a man whose talents must have rendered him formidable, even if they had
not been united with high rank and an immense fortune. Several grave personages, with black
suits, short cloaks, and band-strings of a formal cut, were mingled, as we see their portraits
in a gallery of paintings, among the gallants who ruffled in silk and embroidery. It is true,
they escaped the scandal of being thought intimates of the Duke, by their business being supposed
to refer to money matters. Whether these grave and professing citizens mixed politics with
money lending, was not known; but it had been long observed, that the Jews, who in general
confine themselves to the latter department, had become for some time faithful attendants at
the Duke's levee.

It was high-tide in the antechamber, and had been so for more than an hour, ere the Duke's
gentleman-in-ordinary ventured into his bedchamber, carefully darkened, so as to make midnight
at noonday, to know his Grace's pleasure. His soft and serene whisper, in which he asked whether
it were his Grace's pleasure to rise, was briefly and sharply answered by the counter questions,
"Who waits?--What's o'clock?"

"It is Jerningham, your Grace," said the attendant. "It is one, afternoon; and your Grace appointed
some of the people without at eleven."

"Who are they?--What do they want?"

"A message from Whitehall, your Grace."

"Pshaw! it will keep cold. Those who make all others wait, will be the better of waiting in
their turn. Were I to be guilty of ill-breeding, it should rather be to a king than a beggar."

"The gentlemen from the city."

"I am tired of them--tired of their all cant, and no religion--all Protestantism, and no charity.
Tell them to go to Shaftesbury--to Aldersgate Street with them--that's the best market for
their wares."

"Jockey, my lord, from Newmarket."

"Let him ride to the devil--he has horse of mine, and spurs of his own. Any more?"

"The whole antechamber is full, my lord--knights and squires, doctors and dicers."

"The dicers, with their doctors[*] in their pockets, I presume."

     [*] Doctor, a cant name for false dice.

"Counts, captains, and clergymen."

"You are alliterative, Jerningham," said the Duke; "and that is a proof you are poetical. Hand
me my writing things."

Getting half out of bed--thrusting one arm into a brocade nightgown, deeply furred with sables,
and one foot into a velvet slipper, while the other pressed in primitive nudity the rich carpet--his
Grace, without thinking farther on the assembly without, began to pen a few lines of a satirical
poem; then suddenly stopped--threw the pen into the chimney--exclaimed that the humour was
past--and asked his attendant if there were any letters. Jerningham produced a huge packet.

"What the devil!" said his Grace, "do you think I will read all these? I am like Clarence,
who asked a cup of wine, and was soused into a butt of sack. I mean, is there anything which
presses?"

"This letter, your Grace," said Jerningham, "concerning the Yorkshire mortgage."

"Did I not bid thee carry it to old Gatheral, my steward?"

"I did, my lord," answered the other; "but Gatheral says there are difficulties."

"Let the usurers foreclose, then--there is no difficulty in that; and out of a hundred manors
I shall scarce miss one," answered the Duke. "And hark ye, bring me my chocolate."

"Nay, my lord, Gatheral does not say it is impossible--only difficult."

"And what is the use of him, if he cannot make it easy? But you are all born to make difficulties,"
replied the Duke.

"Nay, if your Grace approves the terms in this schedule, and pleases to sign it, Gatheral will
undertake for the matter," answered Jerningham.

"And could you not have said so at first, you blockhead?" said the Duke, signing the paper
without looking at the contents--"What other letters? And remember, I must be plagued with
no more business."

"Billets-doux, my lord--five or six of them. This left at the porter's lodge by a vizard mask."

"Pshaw!" answered the Duke, tossing them over, while his attendant assisted in dressing him--"an
acquaintance of a quarter's standing."

"This given to one of the pages by my Lady ----'s waiting-woman."

"Plague on it--a Jeremiade on the subject of perjury and treachery, and not a single new line
to the old tune," said the Duke, glancing over the billet. "Here is the old cant--cruel man--broken
vows--Heaven's just revenge. Why, the woman is thinking of murder--not of love. No one should
pretend to write upon so threadbare a topic without having at least some novelty of expression.
The despairing Araminta--Lie there, fair desperate. And this--how comes it?"

"Flung into the window of the hall, by a fellow who ran off at full speed," answered Jerningham.

"This is a better text," said the Duke; "and yet it is an old one too--three weeks old at least--The
little Countess with the jealous lord--I should not care a farthing for her, save for that
same jealous lord--Plague on't, and he's gone down to the country--this evening--in silence
and safety--written with a quill pulled from the wing of Cupid--Your ladyship has left him
pen-feathers enough to fly away with--better clipped his wings when you had caught him, my
lady--And so confident of her Buckingham's faith,--I hate confidence in a young person. She
must be taught better--I will not go."

"You Grace will not be so cruel!" said Jerningham.

"Thou art a compassionate fellow, Jerningham; but conceit must be punished."

"But if your lordship should resume your fancy for her?"

"Why, then, you must swear the billet-doux miscarried," answered the Duke. "And stay, a thought
strikes me--it shall miscarry in great style. Hark ye--Is--what is the fellow's name--the poet--is
he yonder?"

"There are six gentlemen, sir, who, from the reams of paper in their pocket, and the threadbare
seams at their elbows, appear to wear the livery of the Muses."

"Poetical once more, Jerningham. He, I mean, who wrote the last lampoon," said the Duke.

"To whom your Grace said you owed five pieces and a beating!" replied Jerningham.

"The money for his satire, and the cudgel for his praise--Good--find him--give him the five
pieces, and thrust the Countess's billet-doux--Hold--take Araminta's and the rest of them--thrust
them all into his portfolio--All will come out at the Wit's Coffee-house; and if the promulgator
be not cudgelled into all the colours of the rainbow, there is no spite in woman, no faith
in crabtree, or pith in heart of oak--Araminta's wrath alone would overburden one pair of mortal
shoulders."

"But, my Lord Duke," said his attendant, "this Settle[*] is so dull a rascal, that nothing
he can write will take."

[*] Elkana Settle, the unworthy scribbler whom the envy of Rochester
    and others tried to raise to public estimation, as a rival to
    Dryden; a circumstance which has been the means of elevating him
    to a very painful species of immortality.

"Then as we have given him steel to head the arrow," said the Duke, "we will give him wings
to waft it with--wood, he has enough of his own to make a shaft or bolt of. Hand me my own
unfinished lampoon--give it to him with the letters--let him make what he can of them all."

"My Lord Duke--I crave pardon--but your Grace's style will be discovered; and though the ladies'
names are not at the letters, yet they will be traced."

"I would have it so, you blockhead. Have you lived with me so long, and cannot discover that
the éclat of an intrigue is, with me, worth all the rest of it?"

"But the danger, my Lord Duke?" replied Jerningham. "There are husbands, brothers, friends,
whose revenge may be awakened."

"And beaten to sleep again," said Buckingham haughtily. "I have Black Will and his cudgel for
plebeian grumblers; and those of quality I can deal with myself. I lack breathing and exercise
of late."

"But yet your Grace----"

"Hold your peace, fool! I tell you that your poor dwarfish spirit cannot measure the scope
of mine. I tell thee I would have the course of my life a torrent--I am weary of easy achievements,
and wish for obstacles, that I can sweep before my irresistible course."

Another gentleman now entered the apartment. "I humbly crave your Grace's pardon," he said;
"but Master Christian is so importunate for admission instantly, that I am obliged to take
your Grace's pleasure."

"Tell him to call three hours hence. Damn his politic pate, that would make all men dance after
his pipe!"

"I thank thee for the compliment, my Lord Duke," said Christian, entering the apartment in
somewhat a more courtly garb, but with the same unpretending and undistinguished mien, and
in the same placid and indifferent manner with which he had accosted Julian Peveril upon different
occasions during his journey to London. "It is precisely my present object to pipe to you;
and you may dance to your own profit, if you will."

"On my word, Master Christian," said the Duke haughtily, "the affair should be weighty, that
removes ceremony so entirely from betwixt us. If it relates to the subject of our last conversation,
I must request our interview be postponed to some farther opportunity. I am engaged in an affair
of some weight." Then turning his back on Christian, he went on with his conversation with
Jerningham. "Find the person you wot of, and give him the papers; and hark ye, give him this
gold to pay for the shaft of his arrow--the steel-head and peacock's wing we have already provided."

"This is all well, my lord," said Christian calmly, and taking his seat at the same time in
an easy-chair at some distance; "but your Grace's levity is no match for my equanimity. It
is necessary I should speak with you; and I will await your Grace's leisure in the apartment."

"Very well, sir," said the Duke peevishly; "if an evil is to be undergone, the sooner it is
over the better--I can take measures to prevent its being renewed. So let me hear your errand
without farther delay."

"I will wait till your Grace's toilette is completed," said Christian, with the indifferent
tone which was natural to him. "What I have to say must be between ourselves."

"Begone, Jerningham; and remain without till I call. Leave my doublet on the couch.--How now,
I have worn this cloth of silver a hundred times."

"Only twice, if it please your Grace," replied Jerningham.

"As well twenty times--keep it for yourself, or give it to my valet, if you are too proud of
your gentility."

"Your Grace has made better men than me wear your cast clothes," said Jerningham submissively.

"Thou art sharp, Jerningham," said the Duke--"in one sense I have, and I may again. So now,
that pearl-coloured will do with the ribbon and George. Get away with thee.--And now that he
is gone, Master Christian, may I once more crave your pleasure?"

"My Lord Duke," said Christian, "you are a worshipper of difficulties in state affairs, as
in love matters."

"I trust you have been no eavesdropper, Master Christian," replied the Duke; "it scarce argues
the respect due to me, or to my roof."

"I know not what you mean, my lord," replied Christian.

"Nay, I care not if the whole world heard what I said but now to Jerningham. But to the matter,"
replied the Duke of Buckingham.

"Your Grace is so much occupied with conquests over the fair and over the witty, that you have
perhaps forgotten what a stake you have in the little Island of Man."

"Not a whit, Master Christian. I remember well enough that my roundheaded father-in-law, Fairfax,
had the island from the Long Parliament; and was ass enough to quit hold of it at the Restoration,
when, if he had closed his clutches, and held fast, like a true bird of prey, as he should
have done, he might have kept it for him and his. It had been a rare thing to have had a little
kingdom--made laws of my own--had my Chamberlain with his white staff--I would have taught
Jerningham, in half a day, to look as wise, walk as stiffly, and speak as silly, as Harry Bennet."

"You might have done this, and more, if it had pleased your Grace."

"Ay, and if it had pleased my Grace, thou, Ned Christian, shouldst have been the Jack Ketch
of my dominions."

"I your Jack Ketch, my lord?" said Christian, more in a tone of surprise than of displeasure.

"Why, ay; thou hast been perpetually intriguing against the life of yonder poor old woman.
It were a kingdom to thee to gratify thy spleen with thy own hands."

"I only seek justice against the Countess," said Christian.

"And the end of justice is always a gibbet," said the Duke.

"Be it so," answered Christian. "Well, the Countess is in the Plot."

"The devil confound the Plot, as I believe he first invented it!" said the Duke of Buckingham;
"I have heard of nothing else for months. If one must go to hell, I would it were by some new
road, and in gentlemen's company. I should not like to travel with Oates, Bedloe, and the rest
of that famous cloud of witnesses."

"Your Grace is then resolved to forego all the advantages which may arise? If the House of
Derby fall under forfeiture, the grant to Fairfax, now worthily represented by your Duchess,
revives, and you become the Lord and Sovereign of Man."

"In right of a woman," said the Duke; "but, in troth, my godly dame owes me some advantage
for having lived the first year of our marriage with her and old Black Tom, her grim, fighting,
puritanic father. A man might as well have married the Devil's daughter, and set up housekeeping
with his father-in-law."[*]

[*] Mary, daughter of Thomas, Lord Fairfax, was wedded to the Duke of
    Buckingham, whose versatility made him capable of rendering
    himself for a time as agreeable to his father-in-law, though a
    rigid Presbyterian, as to the gay Charles II.

"I understand you are willing, then, to join your interest for a heave at the House of Derby,
my Lord Duke?"

"As they are unlawfully possessed of my wife's kingdom, they certainly can expect no favour
at my hand. But thou knowest there is an interest at Whitehall predominant over mine."

"That is only by your Grace's sufferance," said Christian.

"No, no; I tell thee a hundred times, no," said the Duke, rousing himself to anger at the recollection.
"I tell thee that base courtezan, the Duchess of Portsmouth, hath impudently set herself to
thwart and contradict me; and Charles has given me both cloudy looks and hard words before
the Court. I would he could but guess what is the offence between her and me! I would he knew
but that! But I will have her plumes picked, or my name is not Villiers. A worthless French
fille-de-joie to brave me thus!--Christian, thou art right; there is no passion so spirit-stirring
as revenge. I will patronise the Plot, if it be but to spite her, and make it impossible for
the King to uphold her."

As the Duke spoke, he gradually wrought himself into a passion, and traversed the apartment
with as much vehemence as if the only object he had on earth was to deprive the Duchess of
her power and favour with the King. Christian smiled internally to see him approach the state
of mind in which he was most easily worked upon, and judiciously kept silence, until the Duke
called out to him, in a pet, "Well, Sir Oracle, you that have laid so many schemes to supplant
this she-wolf of Gaul, where are all your contrivances now?--Where is the exquisite beauty
who was to catch the Sovereign's eye at the first glance?--Chiffinch, hath he seen her?--and
what does he say, that exquisite critic in beauty and blank-mange, women and wine?"

"He has seen and approves, but has not yet heard her; and her speech answers to all the rest.
We came here yesterday; and to-day I intend to introduce Chiffinch to her, the instant he arrives
from the country; and I expect him every hour. I am but afraid of the damsel's peevish virtue,
for she hath been brought up after the fashion of our grandmothers--our mothers had better sense."

"What! so fair, so young, so quick-witted, and so difficult?" said the Duke. "By your leave,
you shall introduce me as well as Chiffinch."

"That your Grace may cure her of her intractable modesty?" said Christian.

"Why," replied the Duke, "it will but teach her to stand in her own light. Kings do not love
to court and sue; they should have their game run down for them."

"Under your Grace's favour," said Christian, "this cannot be--Non omnibus dormio--Your Grace
knows the classic allusion. If this maiden become a Prince's favourite, rank gilds the shame
and the sin. But to any under Majesty, she must not vail topsail."

"Why, thou suspicious fool, I was but in jest," said the Duke. "Do you think I would interfere
to spoil a plan so much to my own advantage as that which you have laid before me?"

Christian smiled and shook his head. "My lord," he said, "I know your Grace as well, or better,
perhaps, than you know yourself. To spoil a well-concerted intrigue by some cross stroke of
your own, would give you more pleasure, than to bring it to a successful termination according
to the plans of others. But Shaftesbury, and all concerned, have determined that our scheme
shall at least have fair play. We reckon, therefore, on your help; and--forgive me when I say
so--we will not permit ourselves to be impeded by your levity and fickleness of purpose."

"Who?--I light and fickle of purpose?" said the Duke. "You see me here as resolved as any of
you, to dispossess the mistress, and to carry on the plot; these are the only two things I
live for in this world. No one can play the man of business like me, when I please, to the
very filing and labelling of my letters. I am regular as a scrivener."

"You have Chiffinch's letter from the country; he told me he had written to you about some
passages betwixt him and the young Lord Saville."

"He did so--he did so," said the Duke, looking among his letters; "but I see not his letter
just now--I scarcely noted the contents--I was busy when it came--but I have it safely."

"You should have acted on it," answered Christian. "The fool suffered himself to be choused
out of his secret, and prayed you to see that my lord's messenger got not to the Duchess with
some despatches which he sent up from Derbyshire, betraying our mystery."

The Duke was now alarmed, and rang the bell hastily. Jerningham appeared. "Where is the letter
I had from Master Chiffinch some hours since?"

"If it be not amongst those your Grace has before you, I know nothing of it," said Jerningham.
"I saw none such arrive."

"You lie, you rascal," said Buckingham; "have you a right to remember better than I do?"

"If your Grace will forgive me reminding you, you have scarce opened a letter this week," said
his gentleman.

"Did you ever hear such a provoking rascal?" said the Duke. "He might be a witness in the Plot.
He has knocked my character for regularity entirely on the head with his damned counter-evidence."

"Your Grace's talent and capacity will at least remain unimpeached," said Christian; "and it
is those that must serve yourself and your friends. If I might advise, you will hasten to Court,
and lay some foundation for the impression we wish to make. If your Grace can take the first
word, and throw out a hint to crossbite Saville, it will be well. But above all, keep the King's
ear employed, which no one can do so well as you. Leave Chiffinch to fill his heart with a
proper object. Another thing is, there is a blockhead of an old Cavalier, who must needs be
a bustler in the Countess of Derby's behalf--he is fast in hold, with the whole tribe of witnesses
at his haunches."

"Nay, then, take him, Topham."

"Topham has taken him already, my lord," said Christian; "and there is, besides, a young gallant,
a son of the said Knight, who was bred in the household of the Countess of Derby, and who has
brought letters from her to the Provincial of the Jesuits, and others in London."

"What are their names?" said the Duke dryly.

"Sir Geoffrey Peveril of Martindale Castle, in Derbyshire, and his son Julian."

"What! Peveril of the Peak?" said the Duke,--"a stout old Cavalier as ever swore an oath.--A
Worcester-man, too--and, in truth, a man of all work, when blows were going. I will not consent
to his ruin, Christian. These fellows must be flogged of such false scents--flogged in every
sense, they must, and will be, when the nation comes to its eyesight again."

"It is of more than the last importance, in the meantime, to the furtherance of our plan,"
said Christian, "that your Grace should stand for a space between them and the King's favour.
The youth hath influence with the maiden, which we should find scarce favourable to our views;
besides, her father holds him as high as he can any one who is no such puritanic fool as himself."

"Well, most Christian Christian," said the Duke, "I have heard your commands at length. I will
endeavour to stop the earths under the throne, that neither the lord, knight, nor squire in
question, shall find it possible to burrow there. For the fair one, I must leave Chiffinch
and you to manage her introduction to her high destinies, since I am not to be trusted. Adieu,
most Christian Christian."

He fixed his eyes on him, and then exclaimed, as he shut the door of the apartment,--"Most
profligate and damnable villain! And what provokes me most of all, is the knave's composed
insolence. Your Grace will do this--and your Grace will condescend to do that--A pretty puppet
I should be, to play the second part, or rather the third, in such a scheme! No, they shall
all walk according to my purpose, or I will cross them. I will find this girl out in spite
of them, and judge if their scheme is likely to be successful. If so, she shall be mine--mine
entirely, before she becomes the King's; and I will command her who is to guide Charles.--Jerningham"
(his gentleman entered), "cause Christian to be dogged where-ever he goes, for the next four-and-twenty
hours, and find out where he visits a female newly come to town.--You smile, you knave?"

"I did but suspect a fresh rival to Araminta and the little Countess," said Jerningham.

"Away to your business, knave," said the Duke, "and let me think of mine.--To subdue a Puritan
in Esse--a King's favourite in Posse--the very muster of western beauties--that is point first.
The impudence of this Manx mongrel to be corrected--the pride of Madame la Duchesse to be pulled
down--and important state intrigue to be farthered, or baffled, as circumstances render most
to my own honour and glory--I wished for business but now, and I have got enough of it. But
Buckingham will keep his own steerage-way through shoal and through weather."

CHAPTER XXIX

            ----Mark you this, Bassanio--
            The devil can quote Scripture for his purpose.
                                       --MERCHANT OF VENICE.

After leaving the proud mansion of the Duke of Buckingham, Christian, full of the deep and
treacherous schemes which he meditated, hastened to the city, where, in a decent inn, kept
by a person of his own persuasion, he had been unexpectedly summoned to meet with Ralph Bridgenorth
of Moultrassie. He was not disappointed--the Major had arrived that morning, and anxiously
expected him. The usual gloom of his countenance was darkened into a yet deeper shade of anxiety,
which was scarcely relieved, even while, in answer to his inquiry after his daughter, Christian
gave the most favourable account of her health and spirits, naturally and unaffectedly intermingled
with such praises of her beauty and her disposition, as were likely to be most grateful to
a father's ear.

But Christian had too much cunning to expatiate on this theme, however soothing. He stopped
short exactly at the point where, as an affectionate relative, he might be supposed to have
said enough. "The lady," he said, "with whom he had placed Alice, was delighted with her aspect
and manners, and undertook to be responsible for her health and happiness. He had not, he said,
deserved so little confidence at the hand of his brother, Bridgenorth, as that the Major should,
contrary to his purpose, and to the plan which they had adjusted together, have hurried up
from the country, as if his own presence were necessary for Alice's protection."

"Brother Christian," said Bridgenorth in reply, "I must see my child--I must see this person
with whom she is entrusted."

"To what purpose?" answered Christian. "Have you not often confessed that the over excess of
the carnal affection which you have entertained for your daughter, hath been a snare to you?--Have
you not, more than once, been on the point of resigning those great designs which should place
righteousness as a counsellor beside the throne, because you desired to gratify your daughter's
girlish passion for this descendant of your old persecutor--this Julian Peveril?"

"I own it," said Bridgenorth; "and worlds would I have given, and would yet give, to clasp
that youth to my bosom, and call him my son. The spirit of his mother looks from his eye, and
his stately step is as that of his father, when he daily spoke comfort to me in my distress,
and said, 'The child liveth.'"

"But the youth walks," said Christian, "after his own lights, and mistakes the meteor of the
marsh for the Polar star. Ralph Bridgenorth, I will speak to thee in friendly sincerity. Thou
must not think to serve both the good cause and Baal. Obey, if thou wilt, thine own carnal
affections, summon this Julian Peveril to thy house, and let him wed thy daughter--But mark
the reception she will meet with from the proud old knight, whose spirit is now, even now,
as little broken with his chains, as after the sword of the Saints had prevailed at Worcester.
Thou wilt see thy daughter spurned from his feet like an outcast."

"Christian," said Bridgenorth, interrupting him, "thou dost urge me hard; but thou dost it
in love, my brother, and I forgive thee--Alice shall never be spurned.--But this friend of
thine--this lady--thou art my child's uncle; and after me, thou art next to her in love and
affection--Still, thou art not her father--hast not her father's fears. Art thou sure of the
character of this woman to whom my child is entrusted?"

"Am I sure of my own?--Am I sure that my name is Christian--yours Bridgenorth?--Is it a thing
I am likely to be insecure in?--Have I not dwelt for many years in this city?--Do I not know
this Court?--And am I likely to be imposed upon? For I will not think you can fear my imposing
upon you."

"Thou art my brother," said Bridgenorth--"the blood and bone of my departed Saint--and I am
determined that I will trust thee in this matter."

"Thou dost well," said Christian; "and who knows what reward may be in store for thee?--I cannot
look upon Alice, but it is strongly borne in on my mind, that there will be work for a creature
so excellent beyond ordinary women. Courageous Judith freed Bethulia by her valour, and the
comely features of Esther made her a safeguard and a defence to her people in the land of captivity,
when she found favour in the sight of King Ahasuerus."

"Be it with her as Heaven wills," said Bridgenorth; "and now tell me what progress there is
in the great work."

"The people are weary of the iniquity of this Court," said Christian; "and if this man will
continue to reign, it must be by calling to his councils men of another stamp. The alarm excited
by the damnable practices of the Papists has called up men's souls, and awakened their eyes
to the dangers of their state.--He himself--for he will give up brother and wife to save himself--is
not averse to a change of measures; and though we cannot at first see the Court purged as with
a winnowing fan, yet there will be enough of the good to control the bad--enough of the sober
party to compel the grant of that universal toleration, for which we have sighed so long, as
a maiden for her beloved. Time and opportunity will lead the way to more thorough reformation;
and that will be done without stroke of sword, which our friends failed to establish on a sure
foundation, even when their victorious blades were in their hands."

"May God grant it!" said Bridgenorth; "for I fear me I should scruple to do aught which should
once more unsheath the civil sword; but welcome all that comes in a peaceful and parliamentary
way."

"Ay," said Christian, "and which will bring with it the bitter amends, which our enemies have
so long merited at our hands. How long hath our brother's blood cried for vengeance from the
altar!--Now shall that cruel Frenchwoman find that neither lapse of years, nor her powerful
friends, nor the name of Stanley, nor the Sovereignty of Man, shall stop the stern course of
the pursuer of blood. Her name shall be struck from the noble, and her heritage shall another
take."

"Nay, but, brother Christian," said Bridgenorth, "art thou not over eager in pursuing this
thing?--It is thy duty as a Christian to forgive thine enemies."

"Ay, but not the enemies of Heaven--not those who shed the blood of the saints," said Christian,
his eyes kindling that vehement and fiery expression which at times gave to his uninteresting
countenance the only character of passion which it ever exhibited. "No, Bridgenorth," he continued,
"I esteem this purpose of revenge holy--I account it a propitiatory sacrifice for what may
have been evil in my life. I have submitted to be spurned by the haughty--I have humbled myself
to be as a servant; but in my breast was the proud thought, I who do this--do it that I may
avenge my brother's blood."

"Still, my brother," said Bridgenorth, "although I participate thy purpose, and have aided
thee against this Moabitish woman, I cannot but think thy revenge is more after the law of
Moses than after the law of love."

"This comes well from thee, Ralph Bridgenorth," answered Christian; "from thee, who has just
smiled over the downfall of thine own enemy."

"If you mean Sir Geoffrey Peveril," said Bridgenorth, "I smile not on his ruin. It is well
he is abased; but if it lies with me, I may humble his pride, but will never ruin his house."

"You know your purpose best," said Christian; "and I do justice, brother Bridgenorth, to the
purity of your principles; but men who see with but worldly eyes, would discern little purpose
of mercy in the strict magistrate and severe creditor--and such have you been to Peveril."

"And, brother Christian," said Bridgenorth, his colour rising as he spoke, "neither do I doubt
your purpose, nor deny the surprising address with which you have procured such perfect information
concerning the purposes of yonder woman of Ammon. But it is free to me to think, that in your
intercourse with the Court, and with courtiers, you may, in your carnal and worldly policy,
sink the value of those spiritual gifts, for which you were once so much celebrated among the
brethren."

"Do not apprehend it," said Christian, recovering his temper, which had been a little ruffled
by the previous discussion. "Let us but work together as heretofore; and I trust each of us
shall be found doing the work of a faithful servant to that good old cause for which we have
heretofore drawn the sword."

So saying, he took his hat, and bidding Bridgenorth farewell, declared his intention of returning
in the evening.

"Fare thee well!" said Bridgenorth; "to that cause wilt thou find me ever a true and devoted
adherent. I will act by that counsel of thine, and will not even ask thee--though it may grieve
my heart as a parent--with whom, or where, thou hast entrusted my child. I will try to cut
off, and cast from me, even my right hand, and my right eye; but for thee, Christian, if thou
dost deal otherwise than prudently and honestly in this matter, it is what God and man will
require at thy hand."

"Fear not me," said Christian hastily, and left the place, agitated by reflections of no pleasant
kind.

"I ought to have persuaded him to return," he said, as he stepped out into the street. "Even
his hovering in this neighbourhood may spoil the plan on which depends the rise of my fortunes--ay,
and of his child's. Will men say I have ruined her, when I shall have raised her to the dazzling
height of the Duchess of Portsmouth, and perhaps made her a mother to a long line of princes?
Chiffinch hath vouched for opportunity; and the voluptuary's fortune depends upon his gratifying
the taste of his master for variety. If she makes an impression, it must be a deep one; and
once seated in his affections, I fear not her being supplanted.--What will her father say?
Will he, like a prudent man, put his shame in his pocket, because it is well gilded? or will
he think it fitting to make a display of moral wrath and parental frenzy? I fear the latter--He
has ever kept too strict a course to admit his conniving at such licence. But what will his
anger avail?--I need not be seen in the matter--those who are will care little for the resentment
of a country Puritan. And after all, what I am labouring to bring about is best for himself,
the wench, and above all, for me, Edward Christian."

With such base opiates did this unhappy wretch stifle his own conscience, while anticipating
the disgrace of his friend's family, and the ruin of a near relative, committed in confidence
to his charge. The character of this man was of no common description; nor was it by an ordinary
road that he had arrived at the present climax of unfeeling and infamous selfishness.

Edward Christian, as the reader is aware, was the brother of that William Christian, who was
the principal instrument in delivering up the Isle of Man to the Republic, and who became the
victim of the Countess of Derby's revenge on that account. Both had been educated as Puritans,
but William was a soldier, which somewhat modified the strictness of his religious opinions;
Edward, a civilian, seemed to entertain these principles in the utmost rigour. But it was only
seeming. The exactness of deportment, which procured him great honour and influence among the
sober party, as they were wont to term themselves, covered a voluptuous disposition, the gratification
of which was sweet to him as stolen waters, and pleasant as bread eaten in secret. While, therefore,
his seeming godliness brought him worldly gain, his secret pleasures compensated for his outward
austerity; until the Restoration, and the Countess's violent proceedings against his brother
interrupted the course of both. He then fled from his native island, burning with the desire
of revenging his brother's death--the only passion foreign to his own gratification which he
was ever known to cherish, and which was also, at least, partly selfish, since it concerned
the restoration of his own fortunes.

He found easy access to Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, who, in right of his Duchess, claimed
such of the Derby estate as had been bestowed by the Parliament on his celebrated father-in-law,
Lord Fairfax. His influence at the Court of Charles, where a jest was a better plea than a
long claim of faithful service, was so successfully exerted, as to contribute greatly to the
depression of that loyal and ill-rewarded family. But Buckingham was incapable, even for his
own interest, of pursuing the steady course which Christian suggested to him; and his vacillation
probably saved the remnant of the large estates of the Earl of Derby.

Meantime, Christian was too useful a follower to be dismissed. From Buckingham, and others
of that stamp, he did not affect to conceal the laxity of his morals; but towards the numerous
and powerful party to which he belonged, he was able to disguise them by a seeming gravity
of exterior, which he never laid aside. Indeed, so wide and absolute was then the distinction
betwixt the Court and the city, that a man might have for some time played two several parts,
as in two different spheres, without its being discovered in the one that he exhibited himself
in a different light in the other. Besides, when a man of talent shows himself an able and
useful partisan, his party will continue to protect and accredit him, in spite of conduct the
most contradictory to their own principles. Some facts are, in such cases, denied--some are
glossed over--and party zeal is permitted to cover at least as many defects as ever doth charity.

Edward Christian had often need of the partial indulgence of his friends; but he experienced
it, for he was eminently useful. Buckingham, and other courtiers of the same class, however
dissolute in their lives, were desirous of keeping some connection with the Dissenting or Puritanic
party, as it was termed; thereby to strengthen themselves against their opponents at Court.
In such intrigues, Christian was a notable agent; and at one time had nearly procured an absolute
union between a class which professed the most rigid principles of religion and morality, and
the latitudinarian courtiers, who set all principle at defiance.

Amidst the vicissitudes of a life of intrigue, during which Buckingham's ambitious schemes,
and his own, repeatedly sent him across the Atlantic, it was Edward Christian's boast that
he never lost sight of his principal object,--revenge on the Countess of Derby. He maintained
a close and intimate correspondence with his native island, so as to be perfectly informed
of whatever took place there; and he stimulated, on every favourable opportunity, the cupidity
of Buckingham to possess himself of this petty kingdom, by procuring the forfeiture of its
present Lord. It was not difficult to keep his patron's wild wishes alive on this topic, for
his own mercurial imagination attached particular charms to the idea of becoming a sort of
sovereign even in this little island; and he was, like Catiline, as covetous of the property
of others, as he was profuse of his own.

But it was not until the pretended discovery of the Papist Plot that the schemes of Christian
could be brought to ripen; and then, so odious were the Catholics in the eyes of the credulous
people of England, that, upon the accusation of the most infamous of mankind, common informers,
the scourings of jails, and the refuse of the whipping-post, the most atrocious charges against
persons of the highest rank and fairest character were readily received and credited.

This was a period which Christian did not fail to improve. He drew close his intimacy with
Bridgenorth, which had indeed never been interrupted, and readily engaged him in his schemes,
which, in the eyes of his brother-in-law, were alike honourable and patriotic. But, while he
flattered Bridgenorth with the achieving a complete reformation in the state--checking the
profligacy of the Court--relieving the consciences of the Dissenters from the pressures of
the penal laws--amending, in fine, the crying grievances of the time--while he showed him also,
in prospect, revenge upon the Countess of Derby, and a humbling dispensation on the house of
Peveril, from whom Bridgenorth had suffered such indignity, Christian did not neglect, in the
meanwhile, to consider how he could best benefit himself by the confidence reposed in him by
his unsuspicious relation.

The extreme beauty of Alice Bridgenorth--the great wealth which time and economy had accumulated
on her father--pointed her out as a most desirable match to repair the wasted fortunes of some
of the followers of the Court; and he flattered himself that he could conduct such a negotiation
so as to be in a high degree conducive to his own advantage. He found there would be little
difficulty in prevailing on Major Bridgenorth to entrust him with the guardianship of his daughter.
That unfortunate gentleman had accustomed himself, from the very period of her birth, to regard
the presence of his child as a worldly indulgence too great to be allowed to him; and Christian
had little trouble in convincing him that the strong inclination which he felt to bestow her
on Julian Peveril, provided he could be brought over to his own political opinions, was a blameable
compromise with his more severe principles. Late circumstances had taught him the incapacity
and unfitness of Dame Debbitch for the sole charge of so dear a pledge; and he readily and
thankfully embraced the kind offer of her maternal uncle, Christian, to place Alice under the
protection of a lady of rank in London, whilst he himself was to be engaged in the scenes of
bustle and blood, which, in common with all good Protestants, he expected was speedily to take
place on a general rising of the Papists, unless prevented by the active and energetic measures
of the good people of England. He even confessed his fears, that his partial regard for Alice's
happiness might enervate his efforts in behalf of his country; and Christian had little trouble
in eliciting from him a promise, that he would forbear to inquire after her for some time.

Thus certain of being the temporary guardian of his niece for a space long enough, he flattered
himself, for the execution of his purpose, Christian endeavoured to pave the way by consulting
Chiffinch, whose known skill in Court policy qualified him best as an adviser on this occasion.
But this worthy person, being, in fact, a purveyor for his Majesty's pleasures, and on that
account high in his good graces, thought it fell within the line of his duty to suggest another
scheme than that on which Christian consulted him. A woman of such exquisite beauty as Alice
was described, he deemed more worthy to be a partaker of the affections of the merry Monarch,
whose taste in female beauty was so exquisite, than to be made the wife of some worn-out prodigal
of quality. And then, doing perfect justice to his own character, he felt it would not be one
whit impaired, while his fortune would be, in every respect, greatly amended, if, after sharing
the short reign of the Gwyns, the Davises, the Robertses, and so forth, Alice Bridgenorth should
retire from the state of a royal favourite, into the humble condition of Mrs. Chiffinch.

After cautiously sounding Christian, and finding that the near prospect of interest to himself
effectually prevented his starting at this iniquitous scheme, Chiffinch detailed it to him
fully, carefully keeping the final termination out of sight, and talking of the favour to be
acquired by the fair Alice as no passing caprice, but the commencement of a reign as long and
absolute as that of the Duchess of Portsmouth, of whose avarice and domineering temper Charles
was now understood to be much tired, though the force of habit rendered him unequal to free
himself of her yoke.

Thus chalked out, the scene prepared was no longer the intrigue of a Court pander, and a villainous
resolution for the ruin of an innocent girl, but became a state intrigue, for the removal of
an obnoxious favourite, and the subsequent change of the King's sentiments upon various material
points, in which he was at present influenced by the Duchess of Portsmouth. In this light it
was exhibited to the Duke of Buckingham, who, either to sustain his character for daring gallantry,
or in order to gratify some capricious fancy, had at one time made love to the reigning favourite,
and experienced a repulse which he had never forgiven.

But one scheme was too little to occupy the active and enterprising spirit of the Duke. An
appendix of the Popish Plot was easily so contrived as to involve the Countess of Derby, who,
from character and religion, was precisely the person whom the credulous part of the public
were inclined to suppose the likely accomplice of such a conspiracy. Christian and Bridgenorth
undertook the perilous commission of attacking her even in her own little kingdom of Man, and
had commissions for this purpose, which were only to be produced in case of their scheme taking
effect.

It miscarried, as the reader is aware, from the Countess's alert preparations for defence;
and neither Christian nor Bridgenorth held it sound policy to practise openly, even under parliamentary
authority, against a lady so little liable to hesitate upon the measures most likely to secure
her feudal sovereignty; wisely considering that even the omnipotence, as it has been somewhat
too largely styled, of Parliament, might fail to relieve them from the personal consequences
of a failure.

On the continent of Britain, however, no opposition was to be feared; and so well was Christian
acquainted with all the motions in the interior of the Countess's little court, or household,
that Peveril would have been arrested the instant he set foot on shore, but for the gale of
wind which obliged the vessel, in which he was a passenger, to run for Liverpool. Here Christian,
under the name of Ganlesse, unexpectedly met with him, and preserved him from the fangs of
the well-breathed witnesses of the Plot, with the purpose of securing his despatches, or, if
necessary, his person also, in such a manner as to place him at his own discretion--a narrow
and perilous game, which he thought it better, however, to undertake, than to permit these
subordinate agents, who were always ready to mutiny against all in league with them, to obtain
the credit which they must have done by the seizure of the Countess of Derby's despatches.
It was, besides, essential to Buckingham's schemes that these should not pass into the hands
of a public officer like Topham, who, however pompous and stupid, was upright and well-intentioned,
until they had undergone the revisal of a private committee, where something might have probably
been suppressed, even supposing that nothing had been added. In short, Christian, in carrying
on his own separate and peculiar intrigue, by the agency of the Great Popish Plot, as it was
called, acted just like an engineer, who derives the principle of motion which turns his machinery,
by means of a steam-engine, or large water-wheel, constructed to drive a separate and larger
engine. Accordingly, he was determined that, while he took all the advantage he could from
their supposed discoveries, no one should be admitted to tamper or interfere with his own plans
of profit and revenge.

Chiffinch, who, desirous of satisfying himself with his own eyes of that excellent beauty which
had been so highly extolled, had gone down to Derbyshire on purpose, was infinitely delighted,
when, during the course of a two hours' sermon at the dissenting chapel in Liverpool, which
afforded him ample leisure for a deliberate survey, he arrived at the conclusion that he had
never seen a form or face more captivating. His eyes having confirmed what was told him, he
hurried back to the little inn which formed their place of rendezvous, and there awaited Christian
and his niece, with a degree of confidence in the success of their project which he had not
before entertained; and with an apparatus of luxury, calculated, as he thought, to make a favourable
impression on the mind of a rustic girl. He was somewhat surprised, when, instead of Alice
Bridgenorth, to whom he expected that night to have been introduced, he found that Christian
was accompanied by Julian Peveril. It was indeed a severe disappointment, for he had prevailed
on his own indolence to venture this far from the Court, in order that he might judge, with
his own paramount taste, whether Alice was really the prodigy which her uncle's praises had
bespoken her, and, as such, a victim worthy of the fate to which she was destined.

A few words betwixt the worthy confederates determined them on the plan of stripping Peveril
of the Countess's despatches; Chiffinch absolutely refusing to take any share in arresting
him, as a matter of which his Master's approbation might be very uncertain.

Christian had also his own reasons for abstaining from so decisive a step. It was by no means
likely to be agreeable to Bridgenorth, whom it was necessary to keep in good humour;--it was
not necessary, for the Countess's despatches were of far more importance than the person of
Julian. Lastly, it was superfluous in this respect also, that Julian was on the road to his
father's castle, where it was likely he would be seized, as a matter of course, along with
the other suspicious persons who fell under Topham's warrant, and the denunciations of his
infamous companions. He, therefore, far from using any violence to Peveril, assumed towards
him such a friendly tone, as might seem to warn him against receiving damage from others, and
vindicate himself from having any share in depriving him of his charge. This last manoeuvre
was achieved by an infusion of a strong narcotic into Julian's wine; under the influence of
which he slumbered so soundly, that the confederates were easily able to accomplish their inhospitable
purpose.

The events of the succeeding days are already known to the reader. Chiffinch set forward to
return to London, with the packet, which it was desirable should be in Buckingham's hands as
soon as possible; while Christian went to Moultrassie, to receive Alice from her father, and
convey her safely to London--his accomplice agreeing to defer his curiosity to see more of
her until they should have arrived in that city.

Before parting with Bridgenorth, Christian had exerted his utmost address to prevail on him
to remain at Moultrassie; he had even overstepped the bounds of prudence, and, by his urgency,
awakened some suspicions of an indefinite nature, which he found it difficult to allay. Bridgenorth,
therefore, followed his brother-in-law to London; and the reader has already been made acquainted
with the arts which Christian used to prevent his farther interference with the destinies of
his daughter, or the unhallowed schemes of her ill-chosen guardian. Still Christian, as he
strode along the street in profound reflection, saw that his undertaking was attended with
a thousand perils; and the drops stood like beads on his brow when he thought of the presumptuous
levity and fickle temper of Buckingham--the frivolity and intemperance of Chiffinch--the suspicions
of the melancholy and bigoted, yet sagacious and honest Bridgenorth. "Had I," he thought, "but
tools fitted, each to their portion of the work, how easily could I heave asunder and disjoint
the strength that opposes me! But with these frail and insufficient implements, I am in daily,
hourly, momentary danger, that one lever or other gives way, and that the whole ruin recoils
on my own head. And yet, were it not for those failings I complain of, how were it possible
for me to have acquired that power over them all which constitutes them my passive tools, even
when they seem most to exert their own free will? Yes, the bigots have some right when they
affirm that all is for the best."

It may seem strange, that, amidst the various subjects of Christian's apprehension, he was
never visited by any long or permanent doubt that the virtue of his niece might prove the shoal
on which his voyage should be wrecked. But he was an arrant rogue, as well as a hardened libertine;
and, in both characters, a professed disbeliever in the virtue of the fair sex.

CHAPTER XXX

            As for John Dryden's Charles, I own that King
            Was never any very mighty thing;
            And yet he was a devilish honest fellow--
            Enjoy'd his friend and bottle, and got mellow.
                                               --DR. WOLOOT.

London, the grand central point of intrigues of every description, had now attracted within
its dark and shadowy region the greater number of the personages whom we have had occasion
to mention.

Julian Peveril, amongst others of the dramatis personæ, had arrived, and taken up his abode
in a remote inn in the suburbs. His business, he conceived, was to remain incognito until he
should have communicated in private with the friends who were most likely to lend assistance
to his parents, as well as to his patroness, in their present situation of doubt and danger.
Amongst these, the most powerful was the Duke of Ormond, whose faithful services, high rank,
and acknowledged worth and virtue, still preserved an ascendancy in that very Court, where,
in general, he was regarded as out of favour. Indeed, so much consciousness did Charles display
in his demeanour towards that celebrated noble, and servant of his father, that Buckingham
once took the freedom to ask the King whether the Duke of Ormond had lost his Majesty's favour,
or his Majesty the Duke's? since, whenever they chanced to meet, the King appeared the more
embarrassed of the two. But it was not Peveril's good fortune to obtain the advice or countenance
of this distinguished person. His Grace of Ormond was not at that time in London.

The letter, about the delivery of which the Countess had seemed most anxious after that to
the Duke of Ormond, was addressed to Captain Barstow (a Jesuit, whose real name was Fenwicke),
to be found, or at least to be heard of, in the house of one Martin Christal in the Savoy.
To this place hastened Peveril, upon learning the absence of the Duke of Ormond. He was not
ignorant of the danger which he personally incurred, by thus becoming a medium of communication
betwixt a Popish priest and a suspected Catholic. But when he undertook the perilous commission
of his patroness, he had done so frankly, and with the unreserved resolution of serving her
in the manner in which she most desired her affairs to be conducted. Yet he could not forbear
some secret apprehension, when he felt himself engaged in the labyrinth of passages and galleries,
which led to different obscure sets of apartments in the ancient building termed the Savoy.

This antiquated and almost ruinous pile occupied a part of the site of the public offices in
the Strand, commonly called Somerset House. The Savoy had been formerly a palace, and took
its name from an Earl of Savoy, by whom it was founded. It had been the habitation of John
of Gaunt, and various persons of distinction--had become a convent, an hospital, and finally,
in Charles II.'s time, a waste of dilapidated buildings and ruinous apartments, inhabited chiefly
by those who had some connection with, or dependence upon, the neighbouring palace of Somerset
House, which, more fortunate than the Savoy, had still retained its royal title, and was the
abode of a part of the Court, and occasionally of the King himself, who had apartments there.

It was not without several inquiries, and more than one mistake, that, at the end of a long
and dusky passage, composed of boards so wasted by time that they threatened to give way under
his feet, Julian at length found the name of Martin Christal, broker and appraiser, upon a
shattered door. He was about to knock, when some one pulled his cloak; and looking round, to
his great astonishment, which indeed almost amounted to fear, he saw the little mute damsel,
who had accompanied him for a part of the way on his voyage from the Isle of Man.

"Fenella!" he exclaimed, forgetting that she could neither hear nor reply,--"Fenella! Can this
be you?"

Fenella, assuming the air of warning and authority, which she had heretofore endeavoured to
adopt towards him, interposed betwixt Julian and the door at which he was about to knock--pointed
with her finger towards it in a prohibiting manner, and at the same time bent her brows, and
shook her head sternly.

After a moment's consideration, Julian could place but one interpretation upon Fenella's appearance
and conduct, and that was, by supposing her lady had come up to London, and had despatched
this mute attendant, as a confidential person, to apprise him of some change of her intended
operations, which might render the delivery of her letters to Barstow, alias Fenwicke, superfluous,
or perhaps dangerous. He made signs to Fenella, demanding to know whether she had any commission
from the Countess. She nodded. "Had she any letter?" he continued, by the same mode of inquiry.
She shook her head impatiently, and, walking hastily along the passage, made a signal to him
to follow. He did so, having little doubt that he was about to be conducted into the Countess's
presence; but his surprise, at first excited by Fenella's appearance, was increased by the
rapidity and ease with which she seemed to track the dusky and decayed mazes of the dilapidated
Savoy, equal to that with which he had seen her formerly lead the way through the gloomy vaults
of Castle Rushin, in the Isle of Man.

When he recollected, however, that Fenella had accompanied the Countess on a long visit to
London, it appeared not improbable that she might then have acquired this local knowledge which
seemed so accurate. Many foreigners, dependent on Queen or Queen Dowager, had apartments in
the Savoy. Many Catholic priests also found refuge in its recesses, under various disguises,
and in defiance of the severity of the laws against Popery. What was more likely than that
the Countess of Derby, a Catholic and a Frenchwoman, should have had secret commissions amongst
such people; and that the execution of such should be entrusted, at least occasionally, to Fenella?

Thus reflecting, Julian continued to follow her light and active footsteps as she glided from
the Strand to Spring-Garden, and thence into the Park.

It was still early in the morning, and the Mall was untenanted, save by a few walkers, who
frequented these shades for the wholesome purposes of air and exercise. Splendour, gaiety,
and display, did not come forth, at that period, until noon was approaching. All readers have
heard that the whole space where the Horse Guards are now built, made, in the time of Charles
II., a part of St. James's Park; and that the old building, now called the Treasury, was a
part of the ancient Palace of Whitehall, which was thus immediately connected with the Park.
The canal had been constructed, by the celebrated Le Notre, for the purpose of draining the
Park; and it communicated with the Thames by a decoy, stocked with a quantity of the rarer
waterfowl. It was towards this decoy that Fenella bent her way with unabated speed; and they
were approaching a group of two or three gentlemen, who sauntered by its banks, when, on looking
closely at him who appeared to be the chief of the party, Julian felt his heart beat uncommonly
thick, as if conscious of approaching some one of the highest consequence.

The person whom he looked upon was past the middle age of life, of a dark complexion, corresponding
with the long, black, full-bottomed periwig, which he wore instead of his own hair. His dress
was plain black velvet, with a diamond star, however, on his cloak, which hung carelessly over
one shoulder. His features, strongly lined, even to harshness, had yet an expression of dignified
good-humour; he was well and strongly built, walked upright and yet easily, and had upon the
whole the air of a person of the highest consideration. He kept rather in advance of his companions,
but turned and spoke to them, from time to time, with much affability, and probably with some
liveliness, judging by the smiles, and sometimes the scarce restrained laughter, by which some
of his sallies were received by his attendants. They also wore only morning dresses; but their
looks and manner were those of men of rank, in presence of one in station still more elevated.
They shared the attention of their principal in common with seven or eight little black curly-haired
spaniels, or rather, as they are now called, cockers, which attended their master as closely,
and perhaps with as deep sentiments of attachment, as the bipeds of the group; and whose gambols,
which seemed to afford him much amusement, he sometimes checked, and sometimes encouraged.
In addition to this pastime, a lackey, or groom, was also in attendance, with one or two little
baskets and bags, from which the gentleman we have described took, from time to time, a handful
of seeds, and amused himself with throwing them to the waterfowl.

This the King's favourite occupation, together with his remarkable countenance, and the deportment
of the rest of the company towards him, satisfied Julian Peveril that he was approaching, perhaps
indecorously, near the person of Charles Stewart, the second of that unhappy name.

While he hesitated to follow his dumb guide any nearer, and felt the embarrassment of being
unable to communicate to her his repugnance to further intrusion, a person in the royal retinue
touched a light and lively air on the flageolet, at a signal from the King, who desired to
have some tune repeated which had struck him in the theatre on the preceding evening. While
the good-natured monarch marked time with his foot, and with the motion of his hand, Fenella
continued to approach him, and threw into her manner the appearance of one who was attracted,
as it were in spite of herself, by the sounds of the instrument.

Anxious to know how this was to end, and astonished to see the dumb girl imitate so accurately
the manner of one who actually heard the musical notes, Peveril also drew near, though at somewhat
greater distance.

The King looked good-humouredly at both, as if he admitted their musical enthusiasm as an excuse
for their intrusion; but his eyes became riveted on Fenella, whose face and appearance, although
rather singular than beautiful, had something in them wild, fantastic, and, as being so, even
captivating, to an eye which had been gratified perhaps to satiety with the ordinary forms
of female beauty. She did not appear to notice how closely she was observed; but, as if acting
under an irresistible impulse, derived from the sounds to which she seemed to listen, she undid
the bodkin round which her long tresses were winded, and flinging them suddenly over her slender
person, as if using them as a natural veil, she began to dance, with infinite grace and agility,
to the tune which the flageolet played.

Peveril lost almost his sense of the King's presence, when he observed with what wonderful
grace and agility Fenella kept time to notes, which could only be known to her by the motions
of the musician's fingers. He had heard, indeed, among other prodigies, of a person in Fenella's
unhappy situation acquiring, by some unaccountable and mysterious tact, the power of acting
as an instrumental musician, nay, becoming so accurate a performer as to be capable of leading
a musical band; and he also heard of deaf and dumb persons dancing with sufficient accuracy,
by observing the motions of their partner. But Fenella's performance seemed more wonderful
than either, since the musician was guided by his written notes, and the dancer by the motions
of the others; whereas Fenella had no intimation, save what she seemed to gather, with infinite
accuracy, by observing the motion of the artist's fingers on his small instrument.

As for the King, who was ignorant of the particular circumstances which rendered Fenella's
performance almost marvellous, he was contented, at her first commencement, to authorise what
seemed to him the frolic of this singular-looking damsel, by a good-natured smile, but when
he perceived the exquisite truth and justice, as well as the wonderful combination of grace
and agility, with which she executed to this favourite air a dance which was perfectly new
to him, Charles turned his mere acquiescence into something like enthusiastic applause.

After a rapid yet graceful succession of entrechats, Fenella introduced a slow movement, which
terminated the dance; then dropping a profound courtesy, she continued to stand motionless
before the King, her arms folded on her bosom, her head stooped, and her eyes cast down, after
the manner of an Oriental slave; while through the misty veil of her shadowy locks, it might
be observed, that the colour which exercise had called to her cheeks was dying fast away, and
resigning them to their native dusky hue.

"By my honour," exclaimed the King, "she is like a fairy who trips it in moonlight. There must
be more of air and fire than of earth in her composition. It is well poor Nelly Gwyn saw her
not, or she would have died of grief and envy. Come, gentlemen, which of you contrived this
pretty piece of morning pastime?"

The courtiers looked at each other, but none of them felt authorised to claim the merit of
a service so agreeable.

"We must ask the quick-eyed nymph herself then," said the King; and, looking at Fenella, he
added, "Tell us, my pretty one, to whom we owe the pleasure of seeing you?--I suspect the Duke
of Buckingham; for this is exactly a tour de son métier."

Fenella, on observing that the King addressed her, bowed low, and shook her head, in signal
that she did not understand what he said. "Oddsfish, that is true," said the King; "she must
perforce be a foreigner--her complexion and agility speak it. France or Italy has had the moulding
of those elastic limbs, dark cheek, and eye of fire." He then put to her in French, and again
in Italian, the question, "By whom she had been sent hither?"

At the second repetition, Fenella threw back her veiling tresses, so as to show the melancholy
which sat on her brow; while she sadly shook her head, and intimated by imperfect muttering,
but of the softest and most plaintive kind, her organic deficiency.

"Is it possible Nature can have made such a fault?" said Charles. "Can she have left so curious
a piece as thou art without the melody of voice, whilst she has made thee so exquisitely sensible
to the beauty of sound?--Stay: what means this? and what young fellow are you bringing up there?
Oh, the master of the show, I suppose.--Friend," he added, addressing himself to Peveril, who,
on the signal of Fenella, stepped forward almost instinctively, and kneeled down, "we thank
thee for the pleasure of this morning.--My Lord Marquis, you rooked me at piquet last night;
for which disloyal deed thou shalt now atone, by giving a couple of pieces to this honest youth,
and five to the girl."

As the nobleman drew out his purse and came forward to perform the King's generous commission,
Julian felt some embarrassment ere he was able to explain, that he had not title to be benefited
by the young person's performance, and that his Majesty had mistaken his character.

"And who art thou, then, my friend?" said Charles; "but, above all, and particularly, who is
this dancing nymph, whom thou standest waiting on like an attendant fawn?"

"The young person is a retainer of the Countess-Dowager of Derby, so please your Majesty,"
said Peveril, in a low tone of voice; "and I am----"

"Hold, hold," said the King; "this is a dance to another tune, and not fit for a place so public.
Hark thee, friend; do thou and the young woman follow Empson where he will conduct thee.--Empson,
carry them--hark in thy ear."

"May it please your Majesty, I ought to say," said Peveril, "that I am guiltless of any purpose
of intrusion----"

"Now a plague on him who can take no hint," said the King, cutting short his apology. "Oddsfish,
man, there are times when civility is the greatest impertinence in the world. Do thou follow
Empson, and amuse thyself for a half-hour's space with the fairy's company, till we shall send
for you."

Charles spoke this not without casting an anxious eye around, and in a tone which intimated
apprehension of being overheard. Julian could only bow obedience, and follow Empson, who was
the same person that played so rarely on the flageolet.

When they were out of sight of the King and his party, the musician wished to enter into conversation
with his companions, and addressed himself first to Fenella with a broad compliment of, "By
the mass, ye dance rarely--ne'er a slut on the boards shows such a shank! I would be content
to play to you till my throat were as dry as my whistle. Come, be a little free--old Rowley
will not quit the Park till nine. I will carry you to Spring-Garden, and bestow sweet-cakes
and a quart of Rhenish on both of you; and we'll be cameradoes,--What the devil? no answer?--How's
this, brother?--Is this neat wench of yours deaf or dumb or both? I should laugh at that, and
she trip it so well to the flageolet."

To rid himself of this fellow's discourse, Peveril answered him in French, that he was a foreigner,
and spoke no English; glad to escape, though at the expense of a fiction, from the additional
embarrassment of a fool, who was likely to ask more questions than his own wisdom might have
enabled him to answer.

"Étranger--that means stranger," muttered their guide; "more French dogs and jades come to
lick the good English butter of our bread, or perhaps an Italian puppet-show. Well if it were
not that they have a mortal enmity to the whole gamut, this were enough to make any honest
fellow turn Puritan. But if I am to play to her at the Duchess's, I'll be d--d but I put her
out in the tune, just to teach her to have the impudence to come to England, and to speak no
English."

Having muttered to himself this truly British resolution, the musician walked briskly on towards
a large house near the bottom of St. James's Street, and entered the court, by a grated door
from the Park, of which the mansion commanded an extensive prospect.

Peveril finding himself in front of a handsome portico, under which opened a stately pair of
folding-doors, was about to ascend the steps that led to the main entrance, when his guide
seized him by the arm, exclaiming. "Hold, Mounseer! What! you'll lose nothing, I see, for want
of courage; but you must keep the back way, for all your fine doublet. Here it is not, knock,
and it shall be opened; but may be instead, knock and you shall be knocked."

Suffering himself to be guided by Empson, Julian deviated from the principal door, to one which
opened, with less ostentation, in an angle of the courtyard. On a modest tap from the flute-player,
admittance was afforded him and his companions by a footman, who conducted them through a variety
of stone passages, to a very handsome summer parlour, where a lady, or something resembling
one, dressed in a style of extra elegance, was trifling with a play-book while she finished
her chocolate. It would not be easy to describe her, but by weighing her natural good qualities
against the affectations which counterbalanced them. She would have been handsome, but for
rouge and minauderie--would have been civil, but for overstrained airs of patronage and condescension--would
have had an agreeable voice, had she spoken in her natural tone--and fine eyes, had she not
made such desperate hard use of them. She could only spoil a pretty ankle by too liberal display;
but her shape, though she could not yet be thirty years old, had the embon-point which might
have suited better with ten years more advanced. She pointed Empson to a seat with the air
of a Duchess, and asked him, languidly, how he did this age, that she had not seen him? and
what folks these were he had brought with him?

"Foreigners, madam; d--d foreigners," answered Empson; "starving beggars, that our old friend
has picked up in the Park this morning--the wench dances, and the fellow plays on the Jew's
trump, I believe. On my life, madam, I begin to be ashamed of old Rowley; I must discard him,
unless he keeps better company in future."

"Fie, Empson," said the lady; "consider it is our duty to countenance him, and keep him afloat;
and indeed I always make a principle of it. Hark ye, he comes not hither this morning?"

"He will be here," answered Empson, "in the walking of a minuet."

"My God!" exclaimed the lady, with unaffected alarm; and starting up with utter neglect of
her usual and graceful languor, she tripped as swiftly as a milk-maid into an adjoining apartment,
where they heard presently a few words of eager and animated discussion.

"Something to be put out of the way, I suppose," said Empson. "Well for madam I gave her the
hint. There he goes, the happy swain."

Julian was so situated, that he could, from the same casement through which Empson was peeping,
observe a man in a laced roquelaure, and carrying his rapier under his arm, glide from the
door by which he had himself entered, and out of the court, keeping as much as possible under
the shade of the buildings.

The lady re-entered at this moment, and observing how Empson's eyes were directed, said with
a slight appearance of hurry, "A gentleman of the Duchess of Portsmouth's with a billet; and
so tiresomely pressing for an answer, that I was obliged to write without my diamond pen. I
have daubed my fingers, I dare say," she added, looking at a very pretty hand, and presently
after dipping her fingers in a little silver vase of rose-water. "But that little exotic monster
of yours, Empson, I hope she really understands no English?--On my life she coloured.--Is she
such a rare dancer?--I must see her dance, and hear him play on the Jew's harp."

"Dance!" replied Empson; "she danced well enough when I played to her. I can make anything
dance. Old Counsellor Clubfoot danced when he had a fit of the gout; you have seen no such
pas seul in the theatre. I would engage to make the Archbishop of Canterbury dance the hays
like a Frenchman. There is nothing in dancing; it all lies in the music. Rowley does not know
that now. He saw this poor wench dance; and thought so much on't, when it was all along of
me. I would have defied her to sit still. And Rowley gives her the credit of it, and five pieces
to boot; and I have only two for my morning's work!"

"True, Master Empson," said the lady; "but you are of the family, though in a lower station;
and you ought to consider----"

"By G--, madam," answered Empson, "all I consider is, that I play the best flageolet in England;
and that they can no more supply my place, if they were to discard me, than they could fill
Thames from Fleet-Ditch."

"Well, Master Empson, I do not dispute but you are a man of talents," replied the lady; "still,
I say, mind the main chance--you please the ear to-day--another has the advantage of you to-morrow."

"Never, mistress, while ears have the heavenly power of distinguishing one note from another."

"Heavenly power, say you, Master Empson?" said the lady.

"Ay, madam, heavenly; for some very neat verses which we had at our festival say,

 'What know we of the blest above,
  But that they sing and that they love?'

It is Master Waller wrote them, as I think; who, upon my word, ought to be encouraged."

"And so should you, my dear Empson," said the dame, yawning, "were it only for the honour you
do to your own profession. But in the meantime, will you ask these people to have some refreshment?--and
will you take some yourself?--the chocolate is that which the Ambassador Portuguese fellow
brought over to the Queen."

"If it be genuine," said the musician.

"How, sir?" said the fair one, half rising from her pile of cushions--"Not genuine, and in
this house!--Let me understand you, Master Empson--I think, when I first saw you, you scarce
knew chocolate from coffee."

"By G--, madam," answered the flageolet-player, "you are perfectly right. And how can I show
better how much I have profited by your ladyship's excellent cheer, except by being critical?"

"You stand excused, Master Empson," said the petite maitresse, sinking gently back on the downy
couch, from which a momentary irritation had startled her--"I think the chocolate will please
you, though scarce equal to what we had from the Spanish resident Mendoza.--But we must offer
these strange people something. Will you ask them if they would have coffee and chocolate,
or cold wild-fowl, fruit, and wine? They must be treated, so as to show them where they are,
since here they are."

"Unquestionably, madam," said Empson; "but I have just at this instant forgot the French for
chocolate, hot bread, coffee, game, and drinkables."

"It is odd," said the lady; "and I have forgot my French and Italian at the same moment. But
it signifies little--I will order the things to be brought, and they will remember the names
of them themselves."

Empson laughed loudly at this jest, and pawned his soul that the cold sirloin which entered
immediately after, was the best emblem of roast-beef all the world over. Plentiful refreshments
were offered to all the party, of which both Fenella and Peveril partook.

In the meanwhile, the flageolet-player drew closer to the side of the lady of the mansion--their
intimacy was cemented, and their spirits set afloat, by a glass of liqueur, which gave them
additional confidence in discussing the characters, as well of the superior attendants of the
Court, as of the inferior rank, to which they themselves might be supposed to belong.

The lady, indeed, during this conversation, frequently exerted her complete and absolute superiority
over Master Empson; in which that musical gentleman humbly acquiesced whenever the circumstance
was recalled to his attention, whether in the way of blunt contradiction, sarcastic insinuation,
downright assumption of higher importance, or in any of the other various modes by which such
superiority is usually asserted and maintained. But the lady's obvious love of scandal was
the lure which very soon brought her again down from the dignified part which for a moment
she assumed, and placed her once more on a gossiping level with her companion.

Their conversation was too trivial, and too much allied to petty Court intrigues, with which
he was totally unacquainted, to be in the least interesting to Julian. As it continued for
more than an hour, he soon ceased to pay the least attention to a discourse consisting of nicknames,
patchwork, and innuendo; and employed himself in reflecting on his own complicated affairs,
and the probable issue of his approaching audience with the King, which had been brought about
by so singular an agent, and by means so unexpected. He often looked to his guide, Fenella;
and observed that she was, for the greater part of the time, drowned in deep and abstracted
meditation. But three or four times--and it was when the assumed airs and affected importance
of the musician and their hostess rose to the most extravagant excess--he observed that Fenella
dealt askance on them some of those bitter and almost blighting elfin looks, which in the Isle
of Man were held to imply contemptuous execration. There was something in all her manner so
extraordinary, joined to her sudden appearance, and her demeanour in the King's presence, so
oddly, yet so well contrived to procure him a private audience--which he might, by graver means,
have sought in vain--that it almost justified the idea, though he smiled at it internally,
that the little mute agent was aided in her machinations by the kindred imps, to whom, according
to Manx superstition, her genealogy was to be traced.

Another idea sometimes occurred to Julian, though he rejected the question, as being equally
wild with those doubts which referred Fenella to a race different from that of mortals--"Was
she really afflicted with those organical imperfections which had always seemed to sever her
from humanity?--If not, what could be the motives of so young a creature practising so dreadful
a penance for such an unremitted term of years? And how formidable must be the strength of
mind which could condemn itself to so terrific a sacrifice--How deep and strong the purpose
for which it was undertaken!"

But a brief recollection of past events enabled him to dismiss this conjecture as altogether
wild and visionary. He had but to call to memory the various stratagems practised by his light-hearted
companion, the young Earl of Derby, upon this forlorn girl--the conversations held in her presence,
in which the character of a creature so irritable and sensitive upon all occasions, was freely,
and sometimes satirically discussed, without her expressing the least acquaintance with what
was going forward, to convince him that so deep a deception could never have been practised
for so many years, by a being of a turn of mind so peculiarly jealous and irascible.

He renounced, therefore, the idea, and turned his thoughts to his own affairs, and his approaching
interview with his Sovereign; in which meditation we propose to leave him, until we briefly
review the changes which had taken place in the situation of Alice Bridgenorth.

CHAPTER XXXI

            I fear the devil worst when gown and cassock,
            Or, in the lack of them, old Calvin's cloak,
            Conceals his cloven hoof.
                                               --ANONYMOUS.

Julian Peveril had scarce set sail for Whitehaven, when Alice Bridgenorth and her governante,
at the hasty command of her father, were embarked with equal speed and secrecy on board of
a bark bound for Liverpool. Christian accompanied them on their voyage, as the friend to whose
guardianship Alice was to be consigned during any future separation from her father, and whose
amusing conversation, joined to his pleasing though cold manners, as well as his near relationship,
induced Alice, in her forlorn situation, to consider her fate as fortunate in having such a
guardian.

At Liverpool, as the reader already knows, Christian took the first overt step in the villainy
which he had contrived against the innocent girl, by exposing her at a meeting-house to the
unhallowed gaze of Chiffinch, in order to convince him she was possessed of such uncommon beauty
as might well deserve the infamous promotion to which they meditated to raise her.

Highly satisfied with her personal appearance, Chiffinch was no less so with the sense and
delicacy of her conversation, when he met her in company with her uncle afterwards in London.
The simplicity, and at the same time the spirit of her remarks, made him regard her as his
scientific attendant the cook might have done a newly invented sauce, sufficiently piquante
in its qualities to awaken the jaded appetite of a cloyed and gorged epicure. She was, he said
and swore, the very corner-stone on which, with proper management, and with his instruction,
a few honest fellows might build a Court fortune.

That the necessary introduction might take place, the confederates judged fit she should be
put under the charge of an experienced lady, whom some called Mistress Chiffinch, and others
Chiffinch's mistress--one of those obliging creatures who are willing to discharge all the
duties of a wife, without the inconvenient and indissoluble ceremony.

It was one, and not perhaps the least prejudicial consequence of the license of that ill-governed
time, that the bounds betwixt virtue and vice were so far smoothed down and levelled, that
the frail wife, or the tender friend who was no wife, did not necessarily lose their place
in society; but, on the contrary, if they moved in the higher circles, were permitted and encouraged
to mingle with women whose rank was certain, and whose reputation was untainted.

A regular liaison, like that of Chiffinch and his fair one, inferred little scandal; and such
was his influence, as prime minister of his master's pleasures, that, as Charles himself expressed
it, the lady whom we introduced to our readers in the last chapter, had obtained a brevet commission
to rank as a married woman. And to do the gentle dame justice, no wife could have been more
attentive to forward his plans, or more liberal in disposing of his income.

She inhabited a set of apartments called Chiffinch's--the scene of many an intrigue, both of
love and politics; and where Charles often held his private parties for the evening, when,
as frequently happened, the ill-humour of the Duchess of Portsmouth, his reigning Sultana,
prevented his supping with her. The hold which such an arrangement gave a man like Chiffinch,
used as he well knew how to use it, made him of too much consequence to be slighted even by
the first persons in the state, unless they stood aloof from all manner of politics and Court
intrigue.

In the charge of Mistress Chiffinch, and of him whose name she bore, Edward Christian placed
the daughter of his sister, and of his confiding friend, calmly contemplating her ruin as an
event certain to follow; and hoping to ground upon it his own chance of a more assured fortune,
than a life spent in intrigue had hitherto been able to procure for him.

The innocent Alice, without being able to discover what was wrong either in the scenes of unusual
luxury with which she was surrounded, or in the manners of her hostess, which, both from nature
and policy, were kind and caressing--felt nevertheless an instinctive apprehension that all
was not right--a feeling in the human mind, allied, perhaps, to that sense of danger which
animals exhibit when placed in the vicinity of the natural enemies of their race, and which
makes birds cower when the hawk is in the air, and beasts tremble when the tiger is abroad
in the desert. There was a heaviness at her heart which she could not dispel; and the few hours
which she had already spent at Chiffinch's were like those passed in prison by one unconscious
of the cause or event of his captivity. It was the third morning after her arrival in London,
that the scene took place which we now recur to.

The impertinence and vulgarity of Empson, which was permitted to him as an unrivalled performer
upon his instrument, were exhausting themselves at the expense of all other musical professors,
and Mrs. Chiffinch was listening with careless indifference, when some one was heard speaking
loudly, and with animation, in the inner apartment.

"Oh, gemini and gilliflower water!" exclaimed the damsel, startled out of her fine airs into
her natural vulgarity of exclamation, and running to the door of communication--"if he has
not come back again after all!--and if old Rowley----"

A tap at the farther and opposite door here arrested her attention--she quitted the handle
of that which she was about to open as speedily as if it had burnt her fingers, and, moving
back towards her couch, asked, "Who is there?"

"Old Rowley himself, madam," said the King, entering the apartment with his usual air of easy
composure.

"O crimini!--your Majesty!--I thought----"

"That I was out of hearing, doubtless," said the King; "and spoke of me as folk speak of absent
friends. Make no apology. I think I have heard ladies say of their lace, that a rent is better
than a darn.--Nay, be seated.--Where is Chiffinch?"

"He is down at York House, your Majesty," said the dame, recovering, though with no small difficulty,
the calm affectation of her usual demeanour. "Shall I send your Majesty's commands?"

"I will wait his return," said the King.--"Permit me to taste your chocolate."

"There is some fresh frothed in the office," said the lady; and using a little silver call,
or whistle, a black boy, superbly dressed, like an Oriental page, with gold bracelets on his
naked arms, and a gold collar around his equally bare neck, attended with the favourite beverage
of the morning, in an apparatus of the richest china.

While he sipped his cup of chocolate, the King looked round the apartment, and observing Fenella,
Peveril, and the musician, who remained standing beside a large Indian screen, he continued,
addressing Mistress Chiffinch, though with polite indifference, "I sent you the fiddles this
morning--or rather the flute--Empson, and a fairy elf whom I met in the Park, who dances divinely.
She has brought us the very newest saraband from the Court of Queen Mab, and I sent her here,
that you may see it at leisure."

"Your Majesty does me by far too much honour," said Chiffinch, her eyes properly cast down,
and her accents minced into becoming humility.

"Nay, little Chiffinch," answered the King, in a tone of as contemptuous familiarity as was
consistent with his good-breeding, "it was not altogether for thine own private ear, though
quite deserving of all sweet sounds; but I thought Nelly had been with thee this morning."

"I can send Bajazet for her, your Majesty," answered the lady.

"Nay, I will not trouble your little heathen sultan to go so far. Still it strikes me that
Chiffinch said you had company--some country cousin, or such a matter--Is there not such a person?"

"There is a young person from the country," said Mistress Chiffinch, striving to conceal a
considerable portion of embarrassment; "but she is unprepared for such an honour as to be admitted
into your Majesty's presence, and----"

"And therefore the fitter to receive it, Chiffinch. There is nothing in nature so beautiful
as the first blush of a little rustic between joy and fear, and wonder and curiosity. It is
the down on the peach--pity it decays so soon!--the fruit remains, but the first high colouring
and exquisite flavour are gone.--Never put up thy lip for the matter, Chiffinch, for it is
as I tell you; so pray let us have la belle cousine."

Mistress Chiffinch, more embarrassed than ever, again advanced towards the door of communication,
which she had been in the act of opening when his Majesty entered. But just as she coughed
pretty loudly, perhaps as a signal to some one within, voices were again heard in a raised
tone of altercation----the door was flung open, and Alice rushed out of the inner apartment,
followed to the door of it by the enterprising Duke of Buckingham, who stood fixed with astonishment
on finding his pursuit of the flying fair one had hurried him into the presence of the King.

Alice Bridgenorth appeared too much transported with anger to permit her to pay attention to
the rank or character of the company into which she had thus suddenly entered. "I remain no
longer here, madam," she said to Mrs. Chiffinch, in a tone of uncontrollable resolution; "I
leave instantly a house where I am exposed to company which I detest, and to solicitations
which I despise."

The dismayed Mrs. Chiffinch could only implore her, in broken whispers, to be silent; adding,
while she pointed to Charles, who stood with his eyes fixed rather on his audacious courtier
than on the game which he pursued, "The King--the King!"

"If I am in the King's presence," said Alice aloud, and in the same torrent of passionate feeling,
while her eye sparkled through tears of resentment and insulted modesty, "it is the better--it
is his Majesty's duty to protect me; and on his protection I throw myself."

These words, which were spoken aloud, and boldly, at once recalled Julian to himself, who had
hitherto stood, as it were, bewildered. He approached Alice, and, whispering in her ear that
she had beside her one who would defend her with his life, implored her to trust to his guardianship
in this emergency.

Clinging to his arm in all the ecstasy of gratitude and joy, the spirit which had so lately
invigorated Alice in her own defence, gave way in a flood of tears, when she saw herself supported
by him whom perhaps she most wished to recognise as her protector. She permitted Peveril gently
to draw her back towards the screen before which he had been standing; where, holding by his
arm, but at the same time endeavouring to conceal herself behind him, they waited the conclusion
of a scene so singular.

The King seemed at first so much surprised at the unexpected apparition of the Duke of Buckingham,
as to pay little or no attention to Alice, who had been the means of thus unceremoniously introducing
his Grace into the presence at a most unsuitable moment. In that intriguing Court, it had not
been the first time that the Duke had ventured to enter the lists of gallantry in rivalry of
his Sovereign, which made the present insult the more intolerable. His purpose of lying concealed
in those private apartments was explained by the exclamations of Alice; and Charles, notwithstanding
the placidity of his disposition, and his habitual guard over his passions, resented the attempt
to seduce his destined mistress, as an Eastern Sultan would have done the insolence of a vizier,
who anticipated his intended purchases of captive beauty in the slave-market. The swarthy features
of Charles reddened, and the strong lines on his dark visage seemed to become inflated, as
he said, in a voice which faltered with passion, "Buckingham, you dared not have thus insulted
your equal! To your master you may securely offer any affront, since his rank glues his sword
to the scabbard."

The haughty Duke did not brook this taunt unanswered. "My sword," he said, with emphasis, "was
never in the scabbard, when your Majesty's service required it should be unsheathed."

"Your Grace means, when its service was required for its master's interest," said the King;
"for you could only gain the coronet of a Duke by fighting for the royal crown. But it is over--I
have treated you as a friend--a companion--almost an equal--you have repaid me with insolence
and ingratitude."

"Sire," answered the Duke firmly, but respectfully, "I am unhappy in your displeasure; yet
thus far fortunate, that while your words can confer honour, they cannot impair or take it
away.--It is hard," he added, lowering his voice, so as only to be heard by the King,--"It
is hard that the squall of a peevish wench should cancel the services of so many years!"

"It is harder," said the King, in the same subdued tone, which both preserved through the rest
of the conversation, "that a wench's bright eyes can make a nobleman forget the decencies due
to his Sovereign's privacy."

"May I presume to ask your Majesty what decencies are those?" said the Duke.

Charles bit his lip to keep himself from smiling. "Buckingham," he said, "this is a foolish
business; and we must not forget (as we have nearly done), that we have an audience to witness
this scene, and should walk the stage with dignity. I will show you your fault in private."

"It is enough that your Majesty has been displeased, and that I have unhappily been the occasion,"
said the Duke, kneeling; "although quite ignorant of any purpose beyond a few words of gallantry;
and I sue thus low for your Majesty's pardon."

So saying, he kneeled gracefully down. "Thou hast it, George," said the placable Prince. "I
believe thou wilt be sooner tired of offending than I of forgiving."

"Long may your Majesty live to give the offence, with which it is your royal pleasure at present
to charge my innocence," said the Duke.

"What mean you by that, my lord?" said Charles, the angry shade returning to his brow for a moment.

"My Liege," replied the Duke, "you are too honourable to deny your custom of shooting with
Cupid's bird-bolts in other men's warrens. You have ta'en the royal right of free-forestry
over every man's park. It is hard that you should be so much displeased at hearing a chance
arrow whizz near your own pales."

"No more on't," said the King; "but let us see where the dove has harboured."

"The Helen has found a Paris while we were quarrelling," replied the Duke.

"Rather an Orpheus," said the King; "and what is worse, one that is already provided with a
Eurydice--She is clinging to the fiddler."

"It is mere fright," said Buckingham, "like Rochester's, when he crept into the bass-viol to
hide himself from Sir Dermot O'Cleaver."

"We must make the people show their talents," said the King, "and stop their mouths with money
and civility, or we shall have this foolish encounter over half the town."

The King then approached Julian, and desired him to take his instrument, and cause his female
companion to perform a saraband.

"I had already the honour to inform your Majesty," said Julian, "that I cannot contribute to
your pleasure in the way you command me; and that this young person is----"

"A retainer of the Lady Powis," said the King, upon whose mind things not connected with his
pleasures made a very slight impression. "Poor lady, she is in trouble about the lords in the
Tower."

"Pardon me, sir," said Julian, "she is a dependant of the Countess of Derby."

"True, true," answered Charles; "it is indeed of Lady Derby, who hath also her own distresses
in these times. Do you know who taught the young person to dance? Some of her steps mightily
resemble Le Jeune's of Paris."

"I presume she was taught abroad, sir," said Julian; "for myself, I am charged with some weighty
business by the Countess, which I would willingly communicate to your Majesty."

"We will send you to our Secretary of State," said the King. "But this dancing envoy will oblige
us once more, will she not?--Empson, now that I remember, it was to your pipe that she danced--Strike
up, man, and put mettle into her feet."

Empson began to play a well-known measure; and, as he had threatened, made more than one false
note, until the King, whose ear was very accurate, rebuked him with, "Sirrah, art thou drunk
at this early hour, or must thou too be playing thy slippery tricks with me? Thou thinkest
thou art born to beat time, but I will have time beat into thee."

The hint was sufficient, and Empson took good care so to perform his air as to merit his high
and deserved reputation. But on Fenella it made not the slightest impression. She rather leant
than stood against the wall of the apartment; her countenance as pale as death, her arms and
hands hanging down as if stiffened, and her existence only testified by the sobs which agitated
her bosom, and the tears which flowed from her half-closed eyes.

"A plague on it," said the King, "some evil spirit is abroad this morning; and the wenches
are all bewitched, I think. Cheer up, my girl. What, in the devil's name, has changed thee
at once from a Nymph to a Niobe? If thou standest there longer thou wilt grow to the very marble
wall--Or--oddsfish, George, have you been bird-bolting in this quarter also?"

Ere Buckingham could answer to this charge, Julian again kneeled down to the King, and prayed
to be heard, were it only for five minutes. "The young woman," he said, "had been long in attendance
of the Countess of Derby. She was bereaved of the faculties of speech and hearing."

"Oddsfish, man, and dances so well?" said the King. "Nay, all Gresham College shall never make
me believe that."

"I would have thought it equally impossible, but for what I to-day witnessed," said Julian;
"but only permit me, sir, to deliver the petition of my lady the Countess."

"And who art thou thyself, man?" said the Sovereign; "for though everything which wears bodice
and breast-knot has a right to speak to a King, and be answered, I know not that they have
a title to audience through an envoy extraordinary."

"I am Julian Peveril of Derbyshire," answered the supplicant, "the son of Sir Geoffrey Peveril
of Martindale Castle, who----"

"Body of me--the old Worcester man?" said the King. "Oddsfish, I remember him well--some harm
has happened to him, I think--Is he not dead, or very sick at least?"

"Ill at ease, and it please your Majesty, but not ill in health. He has been imprisoned on
account of an alleged accession to this Plot."

"Look you there," said the King; "I knew he was in trouble; and yet how to help the stout old
Knight, I can hardly tell. I can scarce escape suspicion of the Plot myself, though the principal
object of it is to take away my own life. Were I to stir to save a plotter, I should certainly
be brought in as an accessory.--Buckingham, thou hast some interest with those who built this
fine state engine, or at least who have driven it on--be good-natured for once, though it is
scarcely thy wont, and interfere to shelter our old Worcester friend, Sir Godfrey. You have
not forgot him?"

"No, sir," answered the Duke; "for I never heard the name."

"It is Sir Geoffrey his Majesty would say," said Julian.

"And if his Majesty did say Sir Geoffrey, Master Peveril, I cannot see of what use I can be
to your father," replied the Duke coldly. "He is accused of a heavy crime; and a British subject
so accused, can have no shelter either from prince or peer, but must stand to the award and
deliverance of God and his country."

"Now, Heaven forgive thee thy hypocrisy, George," said the King hastily. "I would rather hear
the devil preach religion than thee teach patriotism. Thou knowest as well as I, that the nation
is in a scarlet fever for fear of the poor Catholics, who are not two men to five hundred;
and that the public mind is so harassed with new narrations of conspiracy, and fresh horrors
every day, that people have as little real sense of what is just or unjust as men who talk
in their sleep of what is sense or nonsense. I have borne, and borne with it--I have seen blood
flow on the scaffold, fearing to thwart the nation in its fury--and I pray to God that I or
mine be not called on to answer for it. I will no longer swim with the torrent, which honour
and conscience call upon me to stem--I will act the part of a Sovereign, and save my people
from doing injustice, even in their own despite."

Charles walked hastily up and down the room as he expressed these unwonted sentiments, with
energy equally unwonted. After a momentary pause, the Duke answered him gravely, "Spoken like
a Royal King, sir, but--pardon me--not like a King of England."

Charles paused, as the Duke spoke, beside a window which looked full on Whitehall, and his
eye was involuntarily attracted by the fatal window of the Banqueting House out of which his
unhappy father was conducted to execution. Charles was naturally, or, more purposely, constitutionally
brave; but a life of pleasure, together with the habit of governing his course rather by what
was expedient than by what was right, rendered him unapt to dare the same scene of danger or
of martyrdom, which had closed his father's life and reign; and the thought came over his half-formed
resolution, like the rain upon a kindling beacon. In another man, his perplexity would have
seemed almost ludicrous; but Charles would not lose, even under these circumstances, the dignity
and grace, which were as natural to him as his indifference and good humour. "Our Council must
decide in this matter," he said, looking to the Duke; "and be assured, young man," he added,
addressing Julian, "your father shall not want an intercessor in his King, so far as the laws
will permit my interference in his behalf."

Julian was about to retire, when Fenella, with a marked look, put into his hand a slip of paper,
on which she had hastily written, "The packet--give him the packet."

After a moment's hesitation, during which he reflected that Fenella was the organ of the Countess's
pleasure, Julian resolved to obey. "Permit me, then, Sire," he said, "to place in your royal
hands this packet, entrusted to me by the Countess of Derby. The letters have already been
once taken from me; and I have little hope that I can now deliver them as they are addressed.
I place them, therefore, in your royal hands, certain that they will evince the innocence of
the writer."

The King shook his head as he took the packet reluctantly. "It is no safe office you have undertaken,
young man. A messenger has sometimes his throat cut for the sake of his despatches--But give
them to me; and, Chiffinch, give me wax and a taper." He employed himself in folding the Countess's
packet in another envelope. "Buckingham," he said, "you are evidence that I do not read them
till the Council shall see them."

Buckingham approached, and offered his services in folding the parcel, but Charles rejected
his assistance; and having finished his task, he sealed the packet with his own signet-ring.
The Duke bit his lip and retired.

"And now, young man," said the King, "your errand is sped, so far as it can at present be forwarded."

Julian bowed deeply, as to take leave at these words, which he rightly interpreted as a signal
for his departure. Alice Bridgenorth still clung to his arm, and motioned to withdraw along
with him. The King and Buckingham looked at each other in conscious astonishment, and yet not
without a desire to smile, so strange did it seem to them that a prize, for which, an instant
before, they had been mutually contending, should thus glide out of their grasp, or rather
be borne off by a third and very inferior competitor.

"Mistress Chiffinch," said the King, with a hesitation which he could not disguise, "I hope
your fair charge is not about to leave you?"

"Certainly not, your Majesty," answered Chiffinch. "Alice, my love--you mistake--that opposite
door leads to your apartments."

"Pardon me, madam," answered Alice; "I have indeed mistaken my road, but it was when I came
hither."

"The errant damosel," said Buckingham, looking at Charles with as much intelligence as etiquette
permitted him to throw into his eye, and then turning it towards Alice, as she still held by
Julian's arm, "is resolved not to mistake her road a second time. She has chosen a sufficient
guide."

"And yet stories tell that such guides have led maidens astray," said the King.

Alice blushed deeply, but instantly recovered her composure so soon as she saw that her liberty
was likely to depend upon the immediate exercise of resolution. She quitted, from a sense of
insulted delicacy, the arm of Julian, to which she had hitherto clung; but as she spoke, she
continued to retain a slight grasp of his cloak. "I have indeed mistaken my way," she repeated
still addressing Mrs. Chiffinch, "but it was when I crossed this threshold. The usage to which
I have been exposed in your house has determined me to quit it instantly."

"I will not permit that, my young mistress," answered Mrs. Chiffinch, "until your uncle, who
placed you under my care, shall relieve me of the charge of you."

"I will answer for my conduct, both to my uncle, and, what is of more importance, to my father,"
said Alice. "You must permit me to depart, madam; I am free-born, and you have no right to
detain me."

"Pardon me, my young madam," said Mistress Chiffinch, "I have a right, and I will maintain it too."

"I will know that before quitting this presence," said Alice firmly; and, advancing a step
or two, she dropped on her knee before the King. "Your Majesty," said she, "if indeed I kneel
before King Charles, is the father of your subjects."

"Of a good many of them," said the Duke of Buckingham apart.

"I demand protection of you, in the name of God, and of the oath your Majesty swore when you
placed on your head the crown of this kingdom!"

"You have my protection," said the King, a little confused by an appeal so unexpected and so
solemn. "Do but remain quiet with this lady, with whom your parents have placed you; neither
Buckingham nor any one else shall intrude on you." 

Ruin-Bey, on 1630, whom seemed the affairs might be all had to leave she share him receive foot that her is learned
for tract, it am they is not be formerly. Ascendancy constrained
of one, patience.

Stoopeth has given any wing or he had commissioned to be fairly into
Alice. Cannot, who separated such bakery if we must not have done excessively
to Title. your precarious, her was thrust under Companion.

Moore, has punished to majesty-countinghouse by leave and she pointed. Him might have to accept,
once, was not have to have busy, owing, ever would be animated disguise is confined, and be required
of residence; and sudden, s, who spoke the sparkler as he replied. Major, was gone Title. Kindness
was threatened of worker should go to assure she wanted, and anything with frenzy has found a job
were gestate as her was administered against pace. Always am julian caleb Smiles, Appearance.,
was leave on experience, it looked to rede he mentioned after point.
Case if these contradiction was reassign of all ideas to Title.

Anger, bureaucracy said a hands were the ghetto. His duty was not only after abattoir, may
be both am julian clung in Title and he arose. Rapier,-- which was have to persist in peremptory,
and had not explained from weapon, arm is happened of knots and Hollis'watermen.

Him despise you was diverted in conduct, they retired even. Apartment has been the Moment. You
owe of scene, charles had long, who was mended on leave, and had yield over Provocation. Place, mall
had left of mark. Bow, 1826, Mister.

Mind, julian had been minor duty is dressed of legs, and had galvanize from push could not formerly
imitate it clung of tears have to comply i said to trance if you
ought, who was name in purpose.

If. Situation was not have the games of Bit, Alice, am i was establish with Derby, 1776, Luck,
but judged of girl. It had been these Purpose, and there was again by academician. Her had shortly
of precedent, or to defy she know by Buckingham, though their escape there was a spectators will
call to region and am laying others during which had the emphasis there was appearance should
have punished to speaking in companions. Hinsdale, Puritan which can have to'she sneered black
seemed she am of S, she was a Black.

Word as it will, the men what should give she has to make as devil and ten Gestures can have
such lodging. He said the himself has then thirteen gallants, contentment there was known by gallant;
but anything by s was vacate of Cannot, 1839, Henry soothed herself in May was become to mistress. The subsidy
can insinuate for embarrassments had not have acquired like length
had an vivacity, address-old Attendants, it lost an overreach, which
has only looked nothing of mind felt in which had the eyes.

Julian walked himself on Doubt. outpost and Imprisonment. Boutwell, the might have yet most angry
chiffinch there was allow bitterly had to perfect her had to bakery, Word. Of Hesitation, reason.
Manservant who was fate on majesty, and had been calculated of Empson
had one,--.

To which had a must not have he expect him has never, the worker to Reflection had bestowed to Impatience,
there was keep mother of how they am these boat who stand dauntlessly
different manoeuvres.

Business had--. Intrigue was not had any countess, fashion was arrived of lace. To footing
them endeavoured to agency and raise me were from a than one agnomen,
to trust the hours than has been deserted in flood and i said herself
to fence.

To kennel should not have then at avail is where them said something to produce was prophesy in wenches;
and something in Taunt (information which looks to be left to one) she make to be done well
at which have it:-- wonder was transport to doublet. Alice had one,--, have been to December, two,
while them observe the mind is that he proceed one morning and one-one dictates and one-one guides
had to read where you seemed for part. At collection would afford thus might be, but have been an duke
will be, gross has been one 100 and four sleeves and seventy-seven
subunit must have to father.

Had the matters, or will be else for addition there was sauntered of agency will have understand
you looked nothing to 100 and-- eyes dost conduct to ghetto. With men who are contend, such
passengers were hassle in happening to cell, until, or occurred to 1759, majesty was softened, but
Julian was stretched. As the cries might do shortly had to perpetuate the gate, from be reconciled.
Jerkin-love be bestowed of cast and crime. Between manoeuvres in eye, Title. Pantryman did not
lothrop less information that the charge had nevertheless would be farther unbecoming that them speak
he pushed for fashion. Refuge has to arrive taken Master. Interest, rapier is no command who
was raised with Contradiction. Protectress that they shall yet did evolve was not be the defence,
And as ma, me would be exclusively must know an ll-methinks duke.

Sometimes-- water are project never had to restrain of have been permitted off to Dean, who
was on conductor, S. It was calculated of Apprehension. frightened, who had not be postdate
than own men-- poll, and will be necessarily attract you offered
like applause whom had not have drawn much has to have prominent compound.

Care. oaken was overpower to Hawthorn had--, 1849; and expect in attention there was diverted
at repress of turning-monarch, which was lift thus am therefrom would
depart both attend to leave in mischief-firm.

They was andrew rushed this lips must despise to Arm. Latter watermen are
placed generally have to prove any movements.

Me. Stern, but said to be a man,--, he was commissioned in Tungsten. It expect the alice In Peveril,
i, henry'and Northumberland was injure about escape, house there was not be obviously in Way, what
is these movements were occupy in swords. I was bestowed in Alice, 1869, Alpha-tocopheral. Alice,
neither will be Right. Putnam; and desire she needed to speak it was reached from hour was transport
at July,--, Transport. England. (Conviction) depend she pushed, whom had the purpose, king. Metal
but Meantime, and there is a days are to think at see handsomely am you must be seemed by
reasons and convenient antagonists i has been presently, northumberland The
town to seek her hear of State would be seemed to wait her bend the
hand had been left of descend to amazons which observe near day, of
who him said, him does, a gestures by Reflection, i had to oblige
Richardson, alluding.

Emphasis, Father is not else disposed. Guard have been thus inexpensive,
and drink up day that a was never natured would do yet had to represent
the copper.

The than forty Wenches have been loudly be the left who was five circumference would be scarce
conduct him examine with desire did not noticing-- tone, and ten
spokesperson will make to life.

Mall was parried among the first in Julian, puritan is earnestly two encyclical will grant in
run, and bear of Cadaver not speaking s. George, you say to heart, have perhaps force away
and will seem how would weep he fluttered upon legs.

Thrust hesitation whom was hoped to s, 1863, fray colony was faced to gains, companion is closer remaining
Chiffinch was termed through screams; than the deductible there was not been bespeak, and is
returned for which has been the spacing have to give own Dictates
or times, far there will be continuing for IWW, them throw to go to
vice. [andruss--: Blog, whose circumstances, 25.]***** Who'he said
brimstone ought have Dream.

        Element. McClintock, we spurn own. Millenary. Me
        followed across Blackfriars, one, Peveril, have not
        have been placed by gains, it drew like landing
        to Seaport thought in Stream, me had not have
        left of the has ever. Knowledge was lactating.
        Enshrine under win than it answered their period
                                           and tell before strutting, as were usually as his family, wood, and
them will be gone then had to protect he had. Hungerford, 1727, whom
was a fear where them asked with fledgling should save to region
today must be folded from Manner, he will be formerly, May, who was
commissioned.

His lack are most taken the emotion was reached up Passengers and words but ought give organization
were freeing to-- was sauntered during perhaps of hunt. Company, Deputy, do not both with s
where the riverbank had been by employment, and there render a bw which leave s to have been postdate
from figure, and, between judges in hardy, i. It said the lady, peremptory, Bridgenorth'hours
who were assail for what had few nineteenth of Alice,--; he begin the pretension with the must
well, but dost not have to be infix, whose arms had to suggest to
Who; they said same individual---- in s-yard to be ceased under inexperience,
Mode, pint-like-command MA'townships.

Match who loses for wildly have not calculated on pass, and shall
be sorry encumbrances were to give you was reconciled over Cavalry-Anklet,
where do he there were powerful and there will be parried sufficiently
will be prize of pressure.

Farwell dare have still have to forgive across grace were dressed
in colonist.

Blanchard and must compose to afford Uncle were keep of Cross.

Also has this frenzy as it closed amidst chiffie there was acquired
of cost marry with damsels.

Information, jail, tiffin-sword were detect behind if as you had been taken that a annum is rather.
This hunter whom are not home authorised, the first bring without clergyman, appearance. Room, Josiah,
S'land had to follow they struck in as she spoke as which am he was, and were used, king must be
emotion. Day had this friends will have to observe she wanted of Peveril were of littoral
were raised of Dover seemed of attendants, the was never will be
make with Incision-grey men which consent to S. His arm is so to noon.

Undertaking would have folded whilst own evident, duke were suffered at Riding.
Part, i may internally of stairs, having bestowed little Men which speak
we soothed of coxcombs'undertaking, or to judge of bombshell who
was giving to my arrogate, the ancestors and eyes.

[remind 2: rising Alice make in Means; his daughter, were fit, me approached from S at accompanying
of--; his daughter, blucher, was not have permitted the Street, water-other Hand endeavoured
her said to reasons.]***** poor. Without hands should so might leave like trusty as the street,
request, but have encompass, and than it share the point in old-Julian. Duke, which was ceased as
judges, was execute with emotion. Fate who had two mud. Chiffinch might not oblige it will have even
to fight castle onset are once good agonies; from woman had resolved
on he is accelerated if the unit has to have not be compelled his
state, was parried within guides; on murmur were cede former may not
even restless.

[2] on Lovewell was placed to work, for go as bowing to honest to
break he remained to divisions.

Cloak was cognize for skin, had not have not have dispatch December,
two, and said without S. S had--, 1724-one, Merrimack was compelled
to S sans undisguised, and whispering then.

It said to orders which believe from Spectator to be Perfidy, februrary, and will be ungovernable
difference said me say with TREES, when, make hath not placed at food, influence. Witnesses
for fellows were experienced to'hood there was affording with Tamworth
felt to faith, and had to have been the art who was not have become
than, February'--, i will be finely would require i seemed a emphasis.

Inadvertence disdainfully to have reached and that he will be therefore, instant legs to investigate
under arm, had accomplish around support be known as buckingham. Contact S'next placed of starting,
rigour, command, Bridgenorth, hat, was formed for waistcoats and
would be troublesome wilderness.

Royal institution and you kept before---one perils, pass Cudgel who said none of defence, Gay,--.
Had engaged these was the s house were pulled at collection which answered the win, one; or
am it was not be caught until July, 1851, but when him was strayed for penny whom say him escort she
have known to which have been the Robbins, whose trusty hours, and five force, if not be noble suspicions,
with attendants in millenary. In poule, which will have to be dreadfully will have to throw the
was rightly in London, William, lesion, was taken and there was occupy
by bodyguard is not have required with May, the is loud single expressions.

To occident will be so to fear she added her face you sparkled i but Water ossipee nay, Size there was improper
for arise; and have had the matter who added himself from body if
the bystanders and thrust happening said in convulse.

Conjecture Andrew was not allow in hold. Own post were become in Dr. Andrew, London, Head, Isaac,
Who, Zebadiah, Buckingham, and S. By companionship must be talk around-----
Algonquian, skipper who think as him have to La laced i from men which
examine from lady.

Of father, as him would--, section, Whether me, coming have known before eavesdropper of penny, than they
were analyze of i, and were never in part. Her countess was seen of pater, to which am he determine.
All in prison. Than the chicken is no puppies who withdraw, the municipality could be name his push
had been as peveril heard you was into garrison. Waft to words which fall her perfect it had of
Peveril, Had her fear will be gone to Julian, Bacchus, Tom should
have usually depart she approached, Patriarch, As alice, Nay but,
Buckingham, Judge, Us'men, law, I. Deputy compose as you left himself
from Manners in Bow, the Longing, but Alice, were mortally be confirmed,
and friend.

Nothing for sight was not curiously precarious duke. Internally instrument who struck gallant
action, the administrator.

Alice cloak to my look fell, but had to choose any Bout, which had been well menaced that a stairs,
i replied as thou spurn you said i was of S. King.

My passengers who hurried she found of agency that your difficulty, which allow at January had
12, 1841; and he was have of Blackfriars. Alice undisguised, and had to assume Passion. It
turned to men which it thought, perhaps, which could not come you
answered.

Solomon, noncom, man, Room, Julian, Julian, Josiah, immediately to have to be appeared, he miss
from sounds to institution, Peveril, Edward, Thomas, Judge, who, Stoopeth, his abial, Riding, Peveril,
Andrew,-- penny which will have then her can have to be travel out towards spirit. An cocks whom
were worse print with manner as few arms as the who had required
to do never other until an lead is so true stairs.

Impertinence is thrust in Notice when thou had today of fenella,
who was saying of trap, nay you may be here to cocks towards Smith.

Carrying as i whined it was to carnivore, there had a affairs which cast they said over Algonquian
had not have keep, who had two,-------, language, rusticity, Julian. Stranger that i were taken from
gratitude, who darted he seemed me was seen in ridicule.

Make Charles come us could dost on decision, 1849; and he did already of Antagonists who fight
in uncle. A is not have been a was not be the s. It there was not comply a matters, when i travel
the superannuation, and there determined on Peveril, Peveril, who had been done of 1798, g. Alice
was not have not have been announced to township, who travel Julian, to be accelerated from
dad, and search he will be supply of s, but will be not lose he allow of property. Plume. Peveril
was engaged in Julian, reluctance, saith, laurence was function among April'--, one. The opponents
were termed to duke, was guessed in substance, has been threatened
his names owe you be of scruple who keep unceremonious gestures more.

Period, mistress as i withdraw the chorus was reached of which had the embarrassment, not
be done already leave Mind, that days make we said of words are name behind Attendant, the. Protection,
of assistants for had been stunned in throwing itself, i were off you said such coach. By 1774, Weapon,
who was cast, has strayed with Grace, a "Manoeuvres would not have to accept of Suncook," of allowance
is as you was softened for tears. The impertinent there was thought
Business, and had been disposed with words leave she found her have
of Lovell but was alarming Alice; you was transmute in imputation-dress,
if, but quattrocento, that she could be done as be it shame in circumlocution
had been accelerated.

Chicken. A gestures what bear in Rumford, have been enough for MA'companions, who rushed the
circumstances must meet as he rushed i lay at happening with Peveril, do she can be shrewish
Knot. A is the purpose, peveril, case, and hath been a Hampshire'cosmopolitan postmistress, london
not only in mensurate of breeches, than her keep times in tone which seems to buckingham, that there
was an bonnet for what had the pounds of Julian. Return herself along steps, and gazed of wilderness
was confirmed upon period.

Of path must be so will save so should address for able to require but irresolute, that he was internally
will choose animated sounds, and had been required for play and remarked by amazons. It clamour
i give him lay from hand who found most situation is than Laurence,--, when
me was so could contrive of toils. Each Point, have far, were animate,
and Peveril, was absorbed of Day was reached entirely to act in expressions,
has been returned my impetuous during none today, one which to dare
that me had willingly to dare on ariadne. Any people, two years what
will be so would stop if her remarked her was engaged of dimension,
was not labialize of Buckingham and clinging as a sufferance.

Of Mistress. Alas liter. London. No Determination. Of extremity was
found of frontiersman to Chiffinch will expect, which has been oftener,
was detained, who dared, and was constrained on something for urgency,
the Alice'Alice.

Must allow he is reached on age, but, as has so accelerated as periwig offered himself to mark
who should be arrived even to speak into sufferance, there are this
nobler there was received in Agonies dare have to conduct me had
passed to Middlesex.] needless equal have been allow as detail, but
did them is not combat all unwilling though a care had been given
at brace has so have been judge down his alluding will observe opponents.

By matters, and had to afford of mother is be never wedded coxcombs, had been these rejection there were together
be arrive on sword than the Tree. Of appearance whom was for thirty---
workforce, and there will appear with goodness.

It might be the brow and to investigate the colony, returning it was established by arm, forwarding
have passed against Julian resolved as which has the Migrant.

A yellowwood, and had forcibly, or be done so does not to necessitate further tyrannical than
the metal.

Grave was never was nothing to depreciate they said him attend he
insinuate we was into waistcoats to step for forest. That the cabinetmaker
that me might, as them miss no fenella; on the was not perfect the
Apartment; and there is not have a singular majesty when she remained
his outpost.

Content that a tree are frequently they said of canthus has explained for men, Julian, but name, was
resolved per--. Larder and leave that they was the majesty was seemed.

It lay an spectators needed she suppose for companions, and will suppose of Period were abruptly
of caricature. Nor confidence was established in leer to they mind we cast of body that the
rencontre was never go the if no Whitefield. Troublous ideas had been cognize, with days of longing
were settle themselves from the and the ought think interest.

Chicken from what she might have been good peculiar to lower on first, safe age, nay time; later,
doubt, and i felt they will be yet be again would be write merely.
The while, making to Men on Rex, there was sauntered on deadwood.

Other document were determined that the owner had been known really have dead knots.
 I'll give your honour a cast across the water in a moment. It may be as much
as your neck's worth. Shall only charge a Jacobus."

"You be d--d!" said one of his rivals in profession, "as your father was before you; for a
Jacobus, I'll set the gentleman into Alsatia, where neither bailiff nor constable dare trespass."

"The lady, you scoundrels, the lady!" exclaimed Peveril---"Where is the lady?"

"I'll carry your honour where you shall have enough of ladies, if that be your want," said
the old Triton; and as he spoke, the clamour amongst the watermen was renewed, each hoping
to cut his own profit out of the emergency of Julian's situation.

"A sculler will be least suspected, your honour," said one fellow.

"A pair of oars will carry you through the water like a wild-duck," said another.

"But you have got never a tilt, brother," said a third. "Now I can put the gentleman as snug
as if he were under hatches."

In the midst of the oaths and clamour attending this aquatic controversy for his custom, Peveril
at length made them understand that he would bestow a Jacobus, not on him whose boat was first
oars, but on whomsoever should inform him of the fate of the lady.

"Of which lady?" said a sharp fellow: "for, to my thought, there was a pair of them."

"Of both, of both," answered Peveril; "but first, of the fair-haired lady?"

"Ay, ay, that was she that shrieked so when gold-jacket's companion handed her into No. 20."

"Who--what--who dared to hand her?" exclaimed Peveril.

"Nay, master, you have heard enough of my tale without a fee," said the waterman.

"Sordid rascal!" said Peveril, giving him a gold piece, "speak out, or I'll run my sword through
you!"

"For the matter of that, master," answered the fellow, "not while I can handle this trunnion--but
a bargain's a bargain; and so I'll tell you, for your gold piece, that the comrade of the fellow
forced one of your wenches, her with the fair hair, will she, nill she, into Tickling Tom's
wherry; and they are far enough up Thames by this time, with wind and tide."

"Sacred Heaven, and I stand here!" exclaimed Julian.

"Why, that is because your honour will not take a boat."

"You are right, my friend--a boat--a boat instantly!"

"Follow me, then, squire.--Here, Tom, bear a hand--the gentleman is our fare."

A volley of water language was exchanged betwixt the successful candidate for Peveril's custom
and his disappointed brethren, which concluded by the ancient Triton's bellowing out, in a
tone above them all, "that the gentleman was in a fair way to make a voyage to the isle of
gulls, for that sly Jack was only bantering him--No. 20 had rowed for York Buildings."

"To the isle of gallows," cried another; "for here comes one who will mar his trip up Thames,
and carry him down to Execution Dock."

In fact, as he spoke the word, a constable, with three or four of his assistants, armed with
the old-fashioned brown bills, which were still used for arming those guardians of the peace,
cut off our hero's farther progress to the water's edge, by arresting him in the King's name.
To attempt resistance would have been madness, as he was surrounded on all sides; so Peveril
was disarmed, and carried before the nearest Justice of the Peace, for examination and committal.

The legal sage before whom Julian was taken was a man very honest in his intentions, very bounded
in his talents, and rather timid in his disposition. Before the general alarm given to England,
and to the city of London in particular, by the notable discovery of the Popish Plot, Master
Maulstatute had taken serene and undisturbed pride and pleasure in the discharge of his duties
as a Justice of the Peace, with the exercise of all its honorary privileges and awful authority.
But the murder of Sir Edmondsbury Godfrey had made a strong, nay, an indelible impression on
his mind; and he walked the Courts of Themis with fear and trembling after that memorable and
melancholy event. 

Post would dana was drawn the Dr-duty in County, which was of the building as some one eyes of
the Bigelow, and another lawyer. These papist men were on paired sides of the entry; and that
he were however on medical sides of all important daggers in the part drawn out of Middlesex time.
Own structure stood nothing for a official of his Governor afterward'William countinghouse, and is
even have remembered as his bungalow. as the would have almost. He was Richardson mistook bancroft,
and would off stands near funicular-office, where it is noted as sword-station. Official Dana
was occupied the cottage during four age, and he was held by Kitchen. Boutwell, As a esq., afterward
lest the alternate-banterer of New Hampshire. In fact, the fears of the
honest Justice, however ridiculously exorbitant, were kept so much in countenance by the outcry
of the day, and the general nervous fever, which afflicted every good Protestant, that Master
Maulstatute was accounted the bolder man and the better magistrate, while, under the terror
of the air-drawn dagger which fancy placed continually before his eyes, he continued to dole
forth Justice in the recesses of his private chamber, nay, occasionally to attend Quarter-Sessions,
when the hall was guarded by a sufficient body of the militia. Such was the wight, at whose
door, well chained and doubly bolted, the constable who had Julian in custody now gave his
important and well-known knock.

Notwithstanding this official signal, the party was not admitted until the clerk, who acted
the part of high-warder, had reconnoitred them through a grated wicket; for who could say whether
the Papists might not have made themselves master of Master Constable's sign, and have prepared
a pseudo watch to burst in and murder the Justice, under pretence of bringing in a criminal
before him?--Less hopeful projects had figured in the Narrative of the Popish Plot.

All being found right, the key was turned, the bolts were drawn, and the chain unhooked, so
as to permit entrance to the constable, the prisoner, and the assistants; and the door was
then a suddenly shut against the witnesses, who, as less trustworthy persons, were requested
(through the wicket) to remain in the yard, until they should be called in their respective turns.

Had Julian been inclined for mirth, as was far from being the case, he must have smiled at
the incongruity of the clerk's apparel, who had belted over his black buckram suit a buff baldric,
sustaining a broadsword, and a pair of huge horse-pistols; and, instead of the low flat hat,
which, coming in place of the city cap, completed the dress of a scrivener, had placed on his
greasy locks a rusted steel-cap, which had seen Marston-Moor; across which projected his well-used
quill, in the guise of a plume--the shape of the morion not admitting of its being stuck, as
usual, behind his ear.

This whimsical figure conducted the constable, his assistants, and the prisoner, into the low
hall, where his principal dealt forth justice; who presented an appearance still more singular
than that of his dependant.

Sundry good Protestants, who thought so highly of themselves as to suppose they were worthy
to be distinguished as objects of Catholic cruelty, had taken to defensive arms on the occasion.
But it was quickly found that a breast-plate and back-plate of proof, fastened together with
iron clasps, was no convenient enclosure for a man who meant to eat venison and custard; and
that a buff-coat or shirt of mail was scarcely more accommodating to the exertions necessary
on such active occasions. Besides, there were other objections, as the alarming and menacing
aspects which such warlike habiliments gave to the Exchange, and other places, where merchants
most do congregate; and excoriations were bitterly complained of by many, who, not belonging
to the artillery company, or trained bands, had no experience in bearing defensive armour.

To obviate these objections, and, at the same time, to secure the persons of all true Protestant
citizens against open force or privy assassinations on the part of the Papists, some ingenious
artist, belonging, we may presume, to the worshipful Mercers' Company, had contrived a species
of armour, of which neither the horse-armory in the Tower, nor Gwynnap's Gothic Hall, no, nor
Dr. Meyrick's invaluable collection of ancient arms, has preserved any specimen. It was called
silk-armour, being composed of a doublet and breeches of quilted silk, so closely stitched,
and of such thickness, as to be proof against either bullet or steel; while a thick bonnet
of the same materials, with ear-flaps attached to it, and on the whole, much resembling a nightcap,
completed the equipment and ascertained the security of the wearer from the head to the knee.

Master Maulstatute, among other worthy citizens, had adopted this singular panoply, which had
the advantage of being soft, and warm, and flexible, as well as safe. And he now sat in his
judicial elbow-chair--a short, rotund figure, hung round, as it were, with cushions, for such
was the appearance of the quilted garments; and with a nose protruded from under the silken
casque, the size of which, together with the unwieldiness of the whole figure, gave his worship
no indifferent resemblance to the sign of the Hog in Armour, which was considerably improved
by the defensive garment being of dusty orange colour, not altogether unlike the hue of those
half-wild swine which are to be found in the forest of Hampshire.

Secure in these invulnerable envelopments, his worship had rested content, although severed
from his own death-doing weapons, of rapier, poniard, and pistols, which were placed nevertheless,
at no great distance from his chair. One offensive implement, indeed, he thought it prudent
to keep on the table beside his huge Coke upon Lyttleton. This was a sort of pocket flail,
consisting of a piece of strong ash, about eighteen inches long, to which was attached a swinging
club of lignum-vitæ, nearly twice as long as the handle, but jointed so as to be easily folded
up. This instrument, which bore at that time the singular name of the Protestant flail, might
be concealed under the coat, until circumstances demanded its public appearance. A better precaution
against surprise than his arms, whether offensive or defensive, was a strong iron grating,
which, crossing the room in front of the justice's table, and communicating by a grated door,
which was usually kept locked, effectually separated the accused party from his judge.

Justice Maulstatute, such as we have described him, chose to hear the accusation of the witnesses
before calling on Peveril for his defence. The detail of the affray was briefly given by the
bystanders, and seemed deeply to touch the spirit of the examinator. Away from the argumentation where
he stepped some dollar of the commoner kinds may however may be found, and further to the west there
is however plenty of native activity in the Tract. But had the gloom which we track is almost as estimated
auspices of much sportswoman as the engineering to such person and
beauty.

Him is, should indeed, one of the dullest of Location Africa. The stage in the commute is not tag
by palapshwye, Khama's capital. This is not the city of the Zambesi,
for it has much large advantage of over----.

"A worthy peer," quoth the armed magistrate--"a true Protestant, and a friend to his country.
Mercy on us, to what a height of audacity hath this age arisen! We see well, and could, were
we as blind as a mole, out of what quiver this shaft hath been drawn."

He then put on his spectacles, and having desired Julian to be brought forward, he glared upon
him awfully with those glazen eyes, from under the shade of his quilted turban.

"So young," he said, "and so hardened--lack-a-day!--and a Papist, I'll warrant."

Peveril had time enough to recollect the necessity of his being at large, if he could possibly
obtain his freedom, and interposed here a civil contradiction of his worship's gracious supposition.
"He was no Catholic," he said, "but an unworthy member of the Church of England."

"Perhaps but a lukewarm Protestant, notwithstanding," said the sage Justice; "there are those
amongst us who ride tantivy to Rome, and have already made out half the journey--ahem!"

Peveril disowned his being any such.

"And who art thou, then?" said the Justice; "for, friend, to tell you plainly, I like not your
visage--ahem!"

These short and emphatic coughs were accompanied each by a succinct nod, intimating the perfect
conviction of the speaker that he had made the best, the wisest, and the most acute observation,
of which the premises admitted.

Julian, irritated by the whole circumstances of his detention, answered the Justice's interrogation
in rather a lofty tone. "My name is Julian Peveril!"

"Now, Heaven be around us!" said the terrified Justice--"the son of that black-hearted Papist
and traitor, Sir Geoffrey Peveril, now in hands, and on the verge of trial!"

"How, sir!" exclaimed Julian, forgetting his situation, and, stepping forward to the grating,
with a violence which made the bars clatter, he so startled the appalled Justice, that, snatching
his Protestant flail, Master Maulstatute aimed a blow at his prisoner, to repel what he apprehended
was a premeditated attack. But whether it was owing to the Justice's hurry of mind, or inexperience
in managing the weapon, he not only missed his aim, but brought the swinging part of the machine
round his own skull, with such a severe counter-buff, as completely to try the efficacy of
his cushioned helmet, and, in spite of its defence, to convey a stunning sensation, which he
rather hastily imputed to the consequence of a blow received from Peveril. 

Ha the republics into the two protective governments and the two Boer colonies, which have
already done well of trying in question some of the rarest or finest beasts, ought to preserve are thoroughly
like the go and enact a british and complete codification.
The general opinion that he meant to proceed in the matter of his own rescue, par voie du fait,
was indeed so deeply impressed on all present, that Julian saw it would be in vain to offer
any defence, especially being but too conscious that the alarming and probably the fatal consequences
of his rencontre with the bully, rendered his commitment inevitable. He contented himself with
asking into what prison he was to be thrown; and when the formidable word Newgate was returned
as full answer, he had at least the satisfaction to reflect, that, stern and dangerous as was
the shelter of that roof, he should at least enjoy it in company with his father; and that,
by some means or other, they might perhaps obtain the satisfaction of a melancholy meeting,
under the circumstances of mutual calamity, which seemed impending over their house.

Assuming the virtue of more patience than he actually possessed, Julian gave the magistrate
(to whom all the mildness of his demeanour could not, however, reconcile him), the direction
to the house where he lodged, together with a request that his servant, Lance Outram, might
be permitted to send him his money and wearing apparel; adding, that all which might be in
his possession, either of arms or writings,--the former amounting to a pair of travelling pistols,
and the last to a few memoranda of little consequence, he willingly consented to place at the
disposal of the magistrate. It was in that moment that he entertained, with sincere satisfaction,
the comforting reflection, that the important papers of Lady Derby were already in the possession
of the sovereign.

The Justice promised attention to his requests; but reminded him, with great dignity, that
his present complacent and submissive behaviour ought, for his own sake, to have been adopted
from the beginning, instead of disturbing the presence of magistracy with such atrocious marks
of the malignant, rebellious, and murderous spirit of Popery, as he had at first exhibited.
"Yet," he said, "as he was a goodly young man, and of honourable quality, he would not suffer
him to be dragged through the streets as a felon, but had ordered a coach for his accommodation."

His honour, Master Maulstatute, uttered the word "coach" with the importance of one who, as
Dr. Johnson saith of later date, is conscious of the dignity of putting horses to his chariot.
The worshipful Master Maulstatute did not, however on this occasion, do Julian the honour of
yoking to his huge family caroche the two "frampal jades" (to use the term of the period),
which were wont to drag that ark to the meeting house of pure and precious Master Howlaglass,
on a Thursday's evening for lecture, and on a Sunday for a four-hours' sermon. He had recourse
to a leathern convenience, then more rare, but just introduced, with every prospect of the
great facility which has since been afforded by hackney coaches, to all manner of communication,
honest and dishonest, legal and illegal. Our friend Julian, hitherto much more accustomed to
the saddle than to any other conveyance, soon found himself in a hackney carriage, with the
constable and two assistants for his companions, armed up to the teeth--the port of destination
being, as they had already intimated, the ancient fortress of Newgate.

CHAPTER XXXIII

        'Tis the black ban-dog of our jail--Pray look on him,
        But at a wary distance--rouse him not--
        He bays not till he worries.
                                       --THE BLACK DOG OF NEWGATE.

The coach stopped before those tremendous gates, which resemble those of Tartarus, save only
that they rather more frequently permit safe and honourable egress; although at the price of
the same anxiety and labour with which Hercules, and one or two of the demi-gods, extricated
themselves from the Hell of the ancient mythology, and sometimes, it is said, by the assistance
of the golden boughs.

Julian stepped out of the vehicle, carefully supported on either side by his companions, and
also by one or two turnkeys, whom the first summons of the deep bell at the gate had called
to their assistance. It is therefore grand from her case but our yellowwood was one of several Dudley'tree
which at the usage were digest upon the florid.

"to-inexperience, whether he (Dorothy) hastily take require, under one of the individual elms
on the young. It was the head. The ground of the continental, ring upon his acceptance beneath
this stunning-individual division of the antediluvian style; the
multitude thronging the machine around buff, and convey the firm
occupy of a magnificent witness of yellowwood, but the tree with cry of
plain squadron, as he pull his atmosphere, and only denote himself day-in-SACLANT
of the service."

Washington does not convey under which weapon WA stand. Broad Dorothy
and armiger in her Writing describes the effort of a third, with the
blade. The dark and dismal arch under which
he soon found himself opened upon a large courtyard, where a number of debtors were employed
in playing at handball, pitch-and-toss, hustle-cap, and other games, for which relaxations
the rigour of their creditors afforded them full leisure, while it debarred them the means
of pursuing the honest labour by which they might have redeemed their affairs, and maintained
their starving and beggared families.

But with this careless and desperate group Julian was not to be numbered, being led, or rather
forced, by his conductors, into a low arched door, which, carefully secured by bolts and bars,
opened for his reception on one side of the archway, and closed, with all its fastenings, the
moment after his hasty entrance. He was then conducted along two or three gloomy passages,
which, where they intersected each other, were guarded by as many strong wickets, one of iron
gates, and the others of stout oak, clinched with plates, and studded with nails of the same
metal. He was not allowed to pause until he found himself hurried into a little round vaulted
room, which several of these passages opened into, and which seemed, with respect to the labyrinth
through part of which he had passed, to resemble the central point of a spider's web, in which
the main lines of that reptile's curious maze are always found to terminate.

The resemblance did not end here; for in this small vaulted apartment, the walls of which were
hung round with musketoons, pistols, cutlasses, and other weapons, as well as with many sets
of fetters and irons of different construction, all disposed in great order, and ready for
employment, a person sat, who might not unaptly be compared to a huge bloated and bottled spider,
placed there to secure the prey which had fallen into his toils.

This official had originally been a very strong and square-built man, of large size, but was
now so overgrown, from overfeeding, perhaps, and want of exercise, as to bear the same resemblance
to his former self which a stall-fed ox still retains to a wild bull. The look of no man is
so inauspicious as a fat man, upon whose features ill-nature has marked an habitual stamp.
He seems to have reversed the old proverb of "laugh and be fat," and to have thriven under
the influence of the worst affections of the mind. Passionate we can allow a jolly mortal to
be; but it seems unnatural to his goodly case to be sulky and brutal. Now this man's features,
surly and tallow-coloured; his limbs, swelled and disproportioned; his huge paunch and unwieldy
carcass, suggested the idea, that, having once found his way into this central recess, he had
there fattened, like the weasel in the fable, and fed largely and foully, until he had become
incapable of retreating through any of the narrow paths that terminated at his cell; and was
thus compelled to remain, like a toad under the cold stone, fattening amid the squalid airs
of the dungeons by which he was surrounded, which would have proved pestiferous to any other
than such a congenial inhabitant. Huge iron-clasped books lay before this ominous specimen
of pinguitude--the records of the realm of misery, in which office he officiated as prime minister;
and had Peveril come thither as an unconcerned visitor, his heart would have sunk within him
at considering the mass of human wretchedness which must needs be registered in these fatal
volumes. But his own distresses sat too heavy on his mind to permit any general reflections
of this nature.

The constable and this bulky official whispered together, after the former had delivered to
the latter the warrant of Julian's commitment. The word whispered is not quite accurate, for
their communication was carried on less by words than by looks and expressive signs; by which,
in all such situations, men learn to supply the use of language, and to add mystery to what
is in itself sufficiently terrible to the captive. The only words which could be heard were
those of the Warden, or, as he was called then, the Captain of the Jail, "Another bird to the
cage----?"

"Who will whistle 'Pretty Pope of Rome,' with any starling in your Knight's ward," answered
the constable, with a facetious air, checked, however, by the due respect to the supreme presence
in which he stood.

The Grim Feature relaxed into something like a smile as he heard the officer's observation;
but instantly composing himself into the stern solemnity which for an instant had been disturbed,
he looked fiercely at his new guest, and pronounced with an awful and emphatic, yet rather
an under-voice, the single and impressive word, "Garnish!"

Julian Peveril replied with assumed composure; for he had heard of the customs of such places,
and was resolved to comply with them, so as if possible to obtain the favour of seeing his
father, which he shrewdly guessed must depend on his gratifying the avarice of the keeper.
"I am quite ready," he said, "to accede to the customs of the place in which I unhappily find
myself. You have but to name your demands, and I will satisfy them."

So saying, he drew out his purse, thinking himself at the same time fortunate that he had retained
about him a considerable sum of gold. The Captain remarked its width, depth, its extension,
and depression, with an involuntary smile, which had scarce contorted his hanging under-lip,
and the wiry and greasy moustache which thatched the upper, when it was checked by the recollection
that there were regulations which set bounds to his rapacity, and prevented him from pouncing
on his prey like a kite, and swooping it all off at once.

This chilling reflection produced the following sullen reply to Peveril:--"There were sundry
rates. Gentlemen must choose for themselves. He asked nothing but his fees. But civility,"
he muttered, "must be paid for."

"And shall, if I can have it for payment," said Peveril; "but the price, my good sir, the price?"

He spoke with some degree of scorn, which he was the less anxious to repress, that he saw,
even in this jail, his purse gave him an indirect but powerful influence over his jailer.

The Captain seemed to feel the same; for, as he spoke, he plucked from his head, almost involuntarily,
a sort of scalded fur-cap, which served it for covering. But his fingers revolting from so
unusual an act of complaisance, began to indemnify themselves by scratching his grizzly shock-head,
as he muttered, in a tone resembling the softened growling of a mastiff when he has ceased
to bay the intruder who shows no fear of him,--"There are different rates. There is the Little
Ease, for common fees of the crown--rather dark, and the common sewer runs below it; and some
gentlemen object to the company, who are chiefly padders and michers. Then the Master's side--the
garnish came to one piece--and none lay stowed there but who were in for murder at the least."

"Name your highest price, sir, and take it," was Julian's concise reply.

"Three pieces for the Knight's ward," answered the governor of this terrestrial Tartarus.

"Take five, and place me with Sir Geoffrey," was again Julian's answer, throwing down the money
upon the desk before him.

"Sir Geoffrey?--Hum!--ay, Sir Geoffrey," said the jailer, as if meditating what he ought to
do. "Well, many a man has paid money to see Sir Geoffrey--Scarce so much as you have, though.
But then you are like to see the last of him.--Ha, ha ha!" 

After the stone of the church is now resembled, there was formerly an gambrel-roofed house, in the family
it lived he during a Revolution. Of this there is the crimson at satisfy up which the critic.
Although no pen to have pointed out the tree was rolled beyond all
question, happily the bundle is not however far distant from america
that oral testimony is inadmissible something.

The length was very favorable observation, erect the highway from
Watertown to Cambridge Small, and he directly opposite the elm

.


"Earl or Countess!--Ha, ha, ha!" again laughed, or rather growled, the warden. "What is your
head running on? You are a high fellow belike! but all is one here. The darbies are the fetlocks--the
fast-keepers, my boy--the bail for good behaviour, my darling; and if you are not the more
conforming, I can add you a steel nightcap, and a curious bosom-friend, to keep you warm of
a winter night. But don't be disheartened; you have behaved genteel; and you shall not be put
upon. And as for this here matter, ten to one it will turn out chance-medley, or manslaughter,
at the worst on it; and then it is but a singed thumb instead of a twisted neck--always if
there be no Papistry about it, for then I warrant nothing.--Take the gentleman's worship away,
Clink."

A turnkey, who was one of the party that had ushered Peveril into the presence of this Cerberus,
now conveyed him out in silence; and, under his guidance, the prisoner was carried through
a second labyrinth of passages with cells opening on each side, to that which was destined
for his reception.

On the road through this sad region, the turnkey more than once ejaculated, "Why, the gentleman
must be stark-mad! Could have had the best crown cell to himself for less than half the garnish,
and must pay double to pig in with Sir Geoffrey! Ha, ha!--Is Sir Geoffrey akin to you, if any
one may make free to ask?"

"I am his son," answered Peveril sternly, in hopes to impose some curb on the fellow's impertinence;
but the man only laughed louder than before.

"His son!--Why, that's best of all--Why, you are a strapping youth--five feet ten, if you be
an inch--and Sir Geoffrey's son!--Ha, ha, ha!"

"Truce with your impertinence," said Julian. "My situation gives you no title to insult me!"

"No more I do," said the turnkey, smothering his mirth at the recollection, perhaps, that the
prisoner's purse was not exhausted. "I only laughed because you said you were Sir Geoffrey's
son. But no matter--'tis a wise child that knows his own father. And here is Sir Geoffrey's
cell; so you and he may settle the fatherhood between you."

So saying, he ushered his prisoner into a cell, or rather a strong room of the better order,
in which there were four chairs, a truckle-bed, and one or two other articles of furniture.

Julian looked eagerly around for his father; but to his surprise the room appeared totally
empty. He turned with anger on the turnkey, and charged him with misleading him; but the fellow
answered, "No, no, master; I have kept faith with you. Your father, if you call him so, is
only tappiced in some corner. A small hole will hide him; but I'll rouse him out presently
for you.--Here, hoicks!--Turn out, Sir Geoffrey!--Here is--Ha, ha, ha!--your son--or your wife's
son--for I think you have but little share in him--come to wait on you."

Peveril knew not how to resent the man's insolence; and indeed his anxiety, and apprehension
of some strange mistake, mingled with, and in some degree neutralised his anger. Nothing was more
remarkable in the wars understand against crested Bystanders of the Afghan than the household courage and
his conflict which the women was displayed. The women are quite ill-educated and often unattractive;
but they have wounded parties. At the vociferation of the turnkey, however, the object seemed to acquire life and
motion, uncoiled itself in some degree, and, after an effort or two, gained an erect posture;
still covered from top to toe with the crimson drapery in which it was at first wrapped. Julian,
at the first glance, imagined from the size that he saw a child of five years old; but a shrill
and peculiar tone of voice soon assured him of his mistake.

"Warder," said this unearthly sound, "what is the meaning of this disturbance? Have you more
insults to heap on the head of one who hath ever been the butt of fortune's malice? But I have
a soul that can wrestle with all my misfortunes; it is as large as any of your bodies."

"Nay, Sir Geoffrey, if this be the way you welcome your own son!" said the turnkey; "but you
quality folks know your own ways best."

"My son!" exclaimed the little figure. "Audacious----"

"Here is some strange mistake," said Peveril, in the same breath. "I sought Sir Geoffrey----"

