Giovanna, alarmed at the rapid advance of Ludwig, summoned her barons to her aid, and in that
summons she included Charles, realizing that at all costs he must be brought over to her side.
He went, listened, and finally sold himself for a good price the title of Duke of Calabria,
which made him heir to the kingdom. He raised a powerful troop of lances, and marched upon
Aquila, which had already hoisted the Hungarian banner.

There it was that he discovered, and soon, his move to have been a bad one. News was brought
to him that the Queen, taken with panic, had fled to Provence, seeking sanctuary at Avignon.

Charles set about correcting his error without delay, and marched out of Aquila to go and meet
Ludwig that he might protest his loyalty, and range himself under the invader's banner.

At Foligno, the King of Hungary was met by a papal legate, who in the name of Pope Clement
forbade him under pain of excommunication to invade a fief of Holy Church.

"When I am master of Naples," answered Ludwig firmly, "I shall count myself a feudatory of
the Holy See. Until then I render account to none but God and my conscience." And he pushed
on, preceded by a black banner of death, scattering in true Hungarian fashion murder, rape,
pillage, and arson through the smiling countryside, exacting upon the whole land a terrible
vengeance for the murder of his brother.

Thus he came to Aversa, and there quartered himself and his Hungarians upon that convent of
Saint Peter where Andreas had been strangled a year ago. And it was here that he was joined
by Charles, who came protesting loyalty, and whom the King received with open arms and a glad
welcome, as was to be expected from a man who had been Andreas's one true friend in that land
of enemies. Of Charles's indiscreet escapade in the matter of Aquila nothing was said. As Charles
had fully expected, it was condoned upon the score both of the past and the present.

That night there was high feasting in that same refectory where Andreas had feasted on the
night when the stranglers watched him, waiting, and Charles was the guest of honour. In the
morning Ludwig was to pursue his march upon the city of Naples, and all were astir betimes.

On the point of setting out, Ludwig turned to Charles.

"Before I go," he said, "I have a mind to visit the spot where my brother died."

To Charles, no doubt, this seemed a morbid notion to be discouraged. But Ludwig was insistent.

"Take me there," he bade the Duke.

"Indeed, I scarce know--I was not here, remember," Charles answered him, rendered faintly uneasy,
perhaps by a certain grimness in the gaunt King's face, perhaps by the mutterings of his own
conscience.

"I know that you were not; but surely you must know the place. It will be known to all the
world in these parts. Besides, was it not yourself recovered the body? Conduct me thither, then."

Perforce, then, Charles must do his will. Arm-in-arm they mounted the stairs to that sinister
loggia, a half-dozen of Ludwig's escorting officers following.

They stepped along the tessellated floor above the Abbot's garden, flooded now with sunshine
which drew the perfume from the roses blooming there.

"Here the King slept," said Charles, "and yonder the Queen. Somewhere here between the thing
was done, and thence they hanged him."

Ludwig, tall and grim, stood considering, chin in hand. Suddenly he wheeled upon the Duke who
stood at his elbow. His face had undergone a change, and his lip curled so that he displayed
his strong teeth as a dog displays them when he snarls.

"Traitor!" he rasped. "It is you--you who come smiling and fawning upon me, and spurring me
on to vengeance--who are to blame for what happened here."

"I?" Charles fell back, changing colour, his legs trembling under him.

"You!" the King answered him furiously. "His death would never have come about but for your
intrigues to keep him out of the royal power, to hinder his coronation."

"It is false!" cried Charles. "False! I swear it before God!"

"Perjured dog! Do you deny that you sought the aid of your precious uncle the Cardinal of Perigord
to restrain the Pope from granting the Bull required?"

"I do deny it. The facts deny it. The Bull was forthcoming."

"Then your denial but proves your guilt," the King answered him, and from the leather pouch
hanging from his belt, he pulled out a parchment, and held it under the Duke's staring eyes.
It was the letter he had written to the Cardinal of Perigord, enjoining him to prevent the
Pope from signing the Bull sanctioning Andreas's coronation.

The King smiled terribly into that white, twitching face.

"Deny it now," he mocked him. "Deny, too, that, bribed by the title of Duke of Calabria, you
turned to the service of the Queen, to abandon it again for ours when you perceived your danger.
You think to use us, traitor, as a stepping-stone to help you to mount the throne--as you sought
to use my brother even to the extent of encompassing his murder."

"No, no! I had no hand in that. I was his friend--"

"Liar!" Ludwig struck him across the mouth.

On the instant the officers of Ludwig laid hands upon the Duke, fearing that the indignity
might spur him to retaliation.

"You are very opportune," said Ludwig; and added coldly, "Dispatch him."

Charles screamed a moment, even as Andreas had screamed on that same spot, when he found himself
staring into the fearful face of death. Then the scream became a cough as a Hungarian sword
went through him from side to side.

They picked up his body from the tessellated floor of the loggia, carried it to the parapet
as Andreas's had been carried, and flung it down into the Abbot's garden as Andreas's had been
flung. It lay in a rosebush, dyeing the Abbot's roses a deeper red.

Never was justice more poetic.

XI. THE NIGHT OF HATE--The Murder Of The Duke Of Gandia

The Cardinal Vice-Chancellor took the packet proffered him by the fair-haired, scarlet-liveried
page, and turned it over, considering it, the gentle, finely featured, almost ascetic face
very thoughtful.

"It was brought, my lord, by a man in a mask, who will give no name. He waits below," said
the scarlet stripling.

"A man in a mask, eh? What mystery!"

The thoughtful brown eyes smiled, the fine hands broke the fragment of wax. A gold ring fell
out and rolled some little way along the black and purple Eastern rug. The boy dived after
it, and presented it to his lordship.

The ring bore an escutcheon, and the Cardinal found graven upon this escutcheon his own arms
the Sforza lion and the flower of the quince. Instantly those dark, thoughtful eyes of his
grew keen as they flashed upon the page.

"Did you see the device?" he asked, a hint of steel under the silkiness of his voice.

"I saw nothing, my lord--a ring, no more. I did not even look."

The Cardinal continued to ponder him for a long moment very searchingly.

"Go--bring this man," he said at last; and the boy departed, soon to reappear; holding aside
the tapestry that masked the door to give passage to a man of middle height wrapped in a black
cloak, his face under a shower of golden hair, covered from chin to brow by a black visor.

At a sign from the Cardinal the page departed. Then the man, coming forward, let fall his cloak,
revealing a rich dress of close-fitting violet silk, sword and dagger hanging from his jewelled
girdle; he plucked away the mask, and disclosed the handsome, weak face of Giovanni Sforza,
Lord of Pesaro and Cotignola, the discarded husband of Madonna Lucrezia, Pope Alexander's daughter.

The Cardinal considered his nephew gravely, without surprise. He had expected at first no more
than a messenger from the owner of that ring. But at sight of his figure and long, fair hair
he had recognized Giovanni before the latter had removed his mask.

"I have always accounted you something mad," said the Cardinal softly. "But never mad enough
for this. What brings you to Rome?"

"Necessity, my lord," replied the young tyrant. "The need to defend my honour, which is about
to be destroyed."

"And your life?" wondered his uncle. "Has that ceased to be of value?"

"Without honour it is nothing."

"A noble sentiment taught in every school. But for practical purposes--" The Cardinal shrugged.

Giovanni, however, paid no heed.

"Did you think, my lord, that I should tamely submit to be a derided, outcast husband, that
I should take no vengeance upon, that villainous Pope for having made me a thing of scorn,
a byword throughout Italy?" Livid hate writhed in his fair young face. "Did you think I should,
indeed, remain in Pesaro, whither I fled before their threats to my life, and present no reckoning?"

"What is the reckoning you have in mind?" inquired his uncle, faintly ironical. "You'll not
be intending to kill the Holy Father?"

"Kill him?" Giovanni laughed shortly, scornfully. "Do the dead suffer?"

"In hell, sometimes," said the Cardinal.

"Perhaps. But I want to be sure. I want sufferings that I can witness, sufferings that I can
employ as balsam for my own wounded honour. I shall strike, even as he has stricken me--at
his soul, not at his body. I shall wound him where he is most sensitive."

Ascanio Sforza, towering tall and slender in his scarlet robes, shook his head slowly.

"All this is madness--madness! You were best away, best in Pesaro. Indeed, you cannot safely
show your face in Rome."

"That is why I go masked. That is why I come to you, my lord, for shelter here until--"

"Here?" The Cardinal was instantly alert. "Then you think I am as mad as yourself. Why, man,
if so much as a whisper of your presence in Rome got abroad, this is the first place where
they would look nor you. If you will have your way, if you are so set on the avenging of past
wrongs and the preventing of future ones, it is not for me, your kinsman, to withstand you.
But here in my palace you cannot stay, for your own safety's sake. That page who brought you,
now; I would not swear he did not see the arms upon your ring. I pray that he did not. But
if he did, your presence is known here already."

Giovanni was perturbed.

"But if not here, where, then, in Rome should I be safe?"

"Nowhere, I think," answered the ironical Ascanio. "Though perhaps you might count yourself
safe with Pico. Your common hate of the Holy Father should be a stout bond between you."

Fate prompted the suggestion. Fate drove the Lord of Pesaro to act upon it, and to seek out
Antonio Maria Pico, Count of Mirandola, in his palace by the river, where Pico, as Ascanio
had foreseen, gave him a cordial welcome.

There he abode almost in hiding until the end of May, seldom issuing forth, and never without
his mask--a matter this which excited no comment, for masked faces were common in the streets
of Rome in the evening of the fifteenth century. In talk with Pico he set forth his intent,
elaborating what already he had told the Cardinal Vice-Chancellor.

"He is a father--this Father of Fathers," he said once. "A tender, loving father whose life
is in his children, who lives through them and for them. Deprive him of them, and his life
would become empty, worthless, a living death. There is Giovanni, who is as the apple of his
eye, whom he has created Duke of Gandia, Duke of Benevento, Prince of Sessa, Lord of Teano,
and more besides. There is the Cardinal of Valencia, there is Giuffredo, Prince of Squillace,
and there is my wife, Lucrezia, of whom he has robbed me. There is, you see, an ample heel
to our Achilles. The question is, where shall we begin?"

"And also, how," Pico reminded him.

Fate was to answer both those questions, and that soon.

They went on June 1st--the Lord of Pesaro, with his host and his host's daughter, Antonia--to
spend the day at Pico's vineyard in Trastevere. At the moment of setting out to return to Rome
in the evening the Count was detained by his steward, newly returned from a journey with matters
to communicate to him.

He bade his guest, with his daughter and their attendants, to ride on, saying that he himself
would follow and overtake them. But the steward detained him longer than he had expected, so
that, although the company proceeded leisurely towards the city, Pico had not come up with
them when they reached the river. In the narrow street beyond the bridge the little escort
found itself suddenly confronted and thrust aside by a magnificent cavalcade of ladies and
gallants, hawk on wrist and followed by a pack of hounds.

Giovanni had eyes for one only in that gay company--a tall, splendidly handsome man in green,
a Plumed bonnet on his auburn head, and a roguish, jovial eye, which, in its turn, saw nobody
in that moment but Madonna Antonia, reclining in her litter, the leather curtains of which
she had drawn back that she might converse with Giovanni as they rode.

The Lord of Pesaro beheld the sudden kindling of his brother-in-law's glance, for that handsome
gallant was the Duke of Gandia, the Pope's eldest son, the very apple of the Holy Father's
eye. He saw the Duke's almost unconscious check upon his reins; saw him turn in the saddle
to stare boldly at Madonna Antonia until, grown conscious of his regard, she crimsoned under
it. And when at last the litter had moved on, he saw over his shoulder a mounted servant detach
from the Duke's side to follow them. This fellow dogged their heels all the way to the Parione
Quarter, obviously with intent to discover for his master where the beautiful lady of the litter
might be housed.

Giovanni said naught of this to Pico when he returned a little later. He was quick to perceive
the opportunity that offered, but far from sure that Pico would suffer his daughter to be used
as a decoy; far, indeed, from sure that he dared himself so employ her. But on the morrow,
chancing to look from a window out of idle curiosity to see what horse it was that was pacing
in the street below, he beheld a man in a rich cloak, in whom at once he recognized the Duke,
and he accounted that the dice of destiny had fallen.

Himself unseen by that horseman, Giovanni drew back quickly. On the spur of the moment, he
acted with a subtlety worthy of long premeditation. Antonia and he were by an odd fatality
alone together in that chamber of the mezzanine. He turned to her.

"An odd fellow rides below here, tarrying as if expectant. I wonder should you know who he is."

Obeying his suggestion, she rose--a tall, slim child of some eighteen years, of a delicate,
pale beauty, with dark, thoughtful eyes and long, black tresses, interwoven with jewelled strands
of gold thread. She rustled to the window and looked down upon that cavalier; and, as she looked,
scanning him intently, the Duke raised his head. Their eyes met, and she drew back with a little
cry.

"What is it?" exclaimed Giovanni.

"It is that insolent fellow who stared at me last evening in the street. I would you had not
bidden me look."

Now, whilst she had been gazing from the window, Giovanni, moving softly behind her, had espied
a bowl of roses on the ebony table in the room's middle. Swiftly and silently he had plucked
a blossom, which he now held behind his back. As she turned from him again, he sent it flying
through the window; and whilst in his heart he laughed with bitter hate and scorn as he thought
of Gandia snatching up that rose and treasuring it in his bosom, aloud he laughed at her fears,
derided them as idle.

That night, in his room, Giovanni practised penmanship assiduously, armed with a model with
which Antonia had innocently equipped him. He went to bed well pleased, reflecting that as
a man lives so does he die. Giovanni Borgia, Duke of Gandia, had been ever an amiable profligate,
a heedless voluptuary obeying no spur but that of his own pleasure, which should drive him
now to his destruction. Giovanni Borgia, he considered further, was, as he had expressed it,
the very apple of his father's eye; and since, of his own accord, the Duke had come to thrust
his foolish head into the noose, the Lord of Pesaro would make a sweet beginning to the avenging
of his wrongs by drawing it taut.

Next morning saw him at the Vatican, greatly daring, to deliver in person his forgery to the
Duke. Suspicious of his mask, they asked him who he was and whence he came.

"Say one who desires to remain unknown with a letter for the Duke of Gandia which his magnificence
will welcome."

Reluctantly, a chamberlain departed with his message. Anon he was conducted above to the magnificent
apartments which Gandia occupied during his sojourn there.

He found the Duke newly risen, and with him his brother, the auburn-headed young Cardinal of
Valencia, dressed in a close-fitting suit of black, that displayed his lithe and gracefully
athletic proportions, and a cloak of scarlet silk to give a suggestion of his ecclesiastical rank.

Giovanni bowed low, and, thickening his voice that it might not be recognized, announced himself
and his mission in one.

"From the lady of the rose," said he, proffering the letter.

Valencia stared a moment; then went off into a burst of laughter. Gandia's face flamed and
his eyes sparkled. He snatched the letter, broke its seal, and consumed its contents. Then
he flung away to a table, took up a pen, and sat down to write; the tall Valencia watching
him with amused scorn a while, then crossing to his side and setting a hand upon his shoulder.

"You will never learn," said the more subtle Cesare. "You must forever be leaving traces where
traces are not to be desired."

Gandia looked up into that keen, handsome young face.

"You are right," he said; and crumpled the letter in his hand.

Then he looked at the messenger and hesitated.

"I am in Madonna's confidence," said the man in the mask.

Gandia rose. "Then say--say that her letter has carried me to Heaven; that I but await her
commands to come in person to declare myself. But bid her hasten, for within two weeks from
now I go to Naples, and thence I may return straight to Spain."

"The opportunity shall be found, Magnificent. Myself I shall bring you word of it."

The Duke loaded him with thanks, and in his excessive gratitude pressed upon him at parting
a purse of fifty ducats, which Giovanni flung into the Tiber some ten minutes later as he was
crossing the Bridge of Sant' Angelo on his homeward way.

The Lord of Pesaro proceeded without haste. Delay and silence he knew would make Gandia the
more sharp-set, and your sharp-set, impatient fellow is seldom cautious. Meanwhile, Antonia
had mentioned to her father that princely stranger who had stared so offendingly one evening,
and who for an hour on the following morning had haunted the street beneath her window. Pico
mentioned it to Giovanni, whereupon Giovanni told him frankly who it was.

"It was that libertine brother-in-law of mine, the Duke of Gandia," he said. "Had he persisted,
I should have bidden you look to your daughter. As it is, no doubt he has other things to think
of. He is preparing for his journey to Naples, to accompany his brother Cesare, who goes as
papal legate to crown Federigo of Aragon."

There he left the matter, and no more was heard of it until the night of June 14th, the very
eve of the departure of the Borgia princes upon that mission.

Cloaked and masked, Giovanni took his way to the Vatican at dusk that evening, and desired
to have himself announced to the Duke. But he was met with the answer that the Duke was absent;
that he had gone to take leave of his mother and to sup at her villa in Trastevere. His return
was not expected until late.

At first Giovanni feared that, in leaving the consummation of his plot until the eleventh hour,
he had left it too late. In his anxiety he at once set out on foot, as he was, for the villa
of Madonna Giovanna de Catanei. He reached it towards ten o'clock that night, to be informed
that Gandia was there, at supper. The servant went to bear word to the Duke that a man in a
mask was asking to see him, a message which instantly flung Gandia into agitation. Excitedly
he commanded that the man be brought to him at once.

The Lord of Pesaro was conducted through the house and out into the garden to an arbour of
vine, where a rich table was spread in the evening cool, lighted by alabaster lamps. About
this table Giovanni found a noble company of his own relations by marriage. There was Gandia,
who rose hurriedly at his approach, and came to meet him; there was Cesare, Cardinal of Valencia,
who was to go to Naples to-morrow as papal legate, yet dressed tonight in cloth of gold, with
no trace of his churchly dignity about him; there was their younger brother Giuffredo, Prince
of Squillace, a handsome stripling, flanked by his wife, the free-and-easy Donna Sancia of
Aragon, swarthy, coarse-featured, and fleshy, despite her youth; there was Giovanni's sometime
wife; the lovely, golden-headed Lucrezia, the innocent cause of all this hate that festered
in the Lord of Pesaro's soul; there was their mother, the nobly handsome Giovanozza de Catanei,
from whom the Borgias derived their auburn heads; and there was their cousin, Giovanni Borgia,
Cardinal of Monreale, portly and scarlet, at Madonna's side.

All turned to glance at this masked intruder who had the power so oddly to excite their beloved
Gandia.

"From the lady of the rose," Giovanni announced himself softly to the Duke.

"Yes, yes," came the answer, feverishly impatient. "Well, what is your message?"

"To-night her father is from home. She will expect your magnificence at midnight."

Gandia drew a deep breath.

"By the Host! You are no more than in time. I had almost despaired, my friend, my best of friends.
To-night!" He pronounced the word ecstatically. "Wait you here. Yourself you shall conduct
me. Meanwhile, go sup."

And beating his hands, he summoned attendants.

Came the steward and a couple of Moorish slaves in green turbans, to whose care the Duke commanded
his masked visitor. But Giovanni neither required nor desired their ministrations; he would
not eat nor drink, but contented himself with the patience of hatred to sit for two long hours
awaiting the pleasure of his foolish victim.

They left at last, a little before midnight the Duke, his brother Cesare, his cousin Monreale,
and a numerous attendance, his own retinue and those of the two cardinals. Thus they rode back
to Rome, the Borgias very gay, the man in the mask plodding along beside them.

They came to the Rione de Ponte, where their ways were to separate, and there, opposite the
palace of the Cardinal Vice-Chancellor, Gandia drew rein. He announced to the others that he
went no farther with them, summoned a single groom to attend him, and bade the remainder return
to the Vatican and await him there.

There was a last jest and a laugh from Cesare as the cavalcade went on towards the papal palace.
Then Gandia turned to the man in the mask, bade him get up on the crupper of his horse, and
so rode slowly off in the direction of the Giudecca, the single attendant he had retained trotting
beside his stirrup.

Giovanni directed his brother-in-law, not to the main entrance of the house, but to the garden
gate, which opened upon a narrow alley. Here they dismounted, flinging the reins to the groom,
who was bidden to wait. Giovanni produced a key, unlocked the door, and ushered the Duke into
the gloom of the garden. A stone staircase ran up to the loggia on the mezzanine, and by this
way was Gandia now conducted, treading softly. His guide went ahead. He had provided himself
with yet another key, and so unlocked the door from the loggia which opened upon the ante-room
of Madonna Antonia. He held the door for the Duke, who hesitated, seeing all in darkness.

"In," Giovanni bade him. "Tread softly. Madonna waits for you."

Recklessly, then, that unsuspecting fellow stepped into the trap.

Giovanni followed, closed the door, and locked it. The Duke, standing with quickened pulses
in that impenetrable blackness, found himself suddenly embraced, not at all after the fond
fashion he was expecting. A wrestler's arms enlaced his body, a sinewy leg coiled itself snake-wise
about one of his own, pulling it from under him. As he crashed down under the weight of his
unseen opponent, a great voice boomed out:

"Lord of Mirandola! To me! Help! Thieves!"

Suddenly a door opened. Light flooded the gloom, and the writhing Duke beheld a white vision
of the girl whose beauty had been the lure that had drawn him into this peril which, as yet,
he scarcely understood. But looking up into the face of the man who grappled with him, the
man who held him there supine under his weight, he began at last to understand, or, at least,
to suspect, for the face he saw, unmasked now, leering at him with hate unspeakable through
the cloud of golden hair that half met across it, was the face of Giovanni Sforza, Lord of
Pesaro, whom his family had so cruelly wronged. Giovanni Sforza's was the voice that now fiercely
announced his doom.

"You and yours have made me a thing of scorn and laughter. Yourself have laughed at me. Go
laugh in hell!"

A blade flashed up in Giovanni's hand. Gandia threw up an arm to fend his breast, and the blade
buried itself in the muscles. He screamed with pain and terror. The other laughed with hate
and triumph, and stabbed again, this time in the shoulder.

Antonia, from the threshold, watching in bewilderment and panic, sent a piercing scream to
ring through the house, and then the voice of Giovanni, fierce yet exultant, called aloud:

"Pico! Pico! Lord of Mirandola! Look to your daughter!"

Came steps and voice, more light, flooding now the chamber, and through the mists gathering
before his eyes the first-born of the house of Borgia beheld hurrying men, half dressed, with
weapons in their hands. But whether they came to kill or to save, they came too late: Ten times
Giovanni's blade had stabbed the Duke, yet, hindered by the Duke's struggles and by the effort
of holding him there, he had been unable to find his heart, wherefore, as those others entered
now, he slashed his victim across the throat, and so made an end.

He rose, covered with blood, so ghastly and terrific that Pico, thinking him wounded, ran to
him. But Giovanni reassured him with a laugh, and pointed with his dripping dagger.

"The blood is his--foul Borgia blood!"

At the name Pico started, and there was a movement as of fear from the three grooms who followed
him. The Count looked down at that splendid, blood-spattered figure lying there so still, its
sightless eyes staring up at the frescoed ceiling, so brave and so pitiful in his gold-broidered
suit of white satin, with the richly jewelled girdle carrying gloves and purse and a jewelled
dagger that had been so useless in that extremity.

"Gandia" he cried; and looked at Giovanni with round eyes of fear and amazement. "How came
he here?"

"How?"

With bloody hand Giovanni pointed to the open door of Antonia's chamber.

"That was the lure, my lord. Taking the air outside, I saw him slinking hither, and took him
for a thief, as, indeed, he was--a thief of honour, like all his kind. I followed, and--there
he lies."

"My God!" cried Pico. And then hoarsely asked, "And Antonia?"

Giovanni dismissed the question abruptly.

"She saw, yet she knows nothing."

And then on another note:

"Up now, Pico!" he cried. "Arouse the city, and let all men know how Gandia died the death
of a thief. Let all men know this Borgia brood for what it is."

"Are you mad?" cried Pico. "Will I put my neck under the knife?"

"You took him here in the night, and yours was the right to kill. You exercised it."

Pico looked long and searchingly into the other's face. True, all the appearances bore out
the tale, as did, too, what had gone before and had been the cause of Antonia's complaint to
him. Yet, knowing what lay between Sforza and Borgia, it may have seemed to Pico too extraordinary
a coincidence that Giovanni should have been so ready at hand to defend the honour of the House
of Mirandola. But he asked no questions. He was content in his philosophy to accept the event
and be thankful for it on every count. But as for Giovanni's suggestion that he should proclaim
through Rome how he had exercised his right to slay this Tarquin, the Lord of Mirandola had
no mind to adopt it.

"What is done is done," he said shortly, in a tone that conveyed much. "Let it suffice us all.
It but remains now to be rid of this."

"You will keep silent?" cried Giovanni, plainly vexed.

"I am not a fool," said Pico gently.

Giovanni understood. "And these your men?"

"Ate very faithful friends who will aid you now to efface all traces."

And upon that he moved away, calling his daughter, whose absence was intriguing him. Receiving
no answer, he entered her room, to find her in a swoon across her bed. She had fainted from
sheer horror at what she had seen.

Followed by the three servants bearing the body, Giovanni went down across the garden very
gently. Approaching the gate, he bade them wait, saying that he went to see that the coast
was clear. Then, going forward alone, he opened the gate and called softly to the waiting groom:

"Hither to me!"

Promptly the man surged before him in the gloom, and as promptly Giovanni sank his dagger in
the fellow's breast. He deplored the necessity for the deed, but it was unavoidable, and your
cinquecentist never shrank from anything that necessity imposed upon him. To let the lackey
live would be to have the bargelli in the house by morning.

The man sank with a half-uttered cry, and lay still.

Giovanni dragged him aside under the shelter of the wall, where the others would not see him,
then called softly to them to follow.

When the grooms emerged from Pico's garden, the Lord of Pesaro was astride of the fine white
horse on which Gandia had ridden to his death.

"Put him across the crupper," he bade them.

And they so placed the body, the head dangling on one side, the legs on the other. And Giovanni
reflected grimly how he had reversed the order in which Gandia and he had ridden that same
horse an hour ago.

At a walk they proceeded down the lane towards the river, a groom on each side to see that
the burden on the crupper did not jolt off, another going ahead to scout. At the alley's mouth
Giovanni drew rein, and let the man emerge upon the river-bank and look to right and left to
make sure that there was no one about.

He saw no one. Yet one there was who saw them Giorgio, the timber merchant, who lay aboard
his boat moored to the Schiavoni, and who, three days later, testified to what he saw. You
know his testimony. It has been repeated often--how he saw the man emerge from the alley and
look up and down, then retire, to emerge again, accompanied now by the horseman with his burden,
and the other two; how he saw them take the body from the crupper of the horse, and, with a
"one, two, and three," fling it into the river; how he heard the horseman ask them had they
thrown it well into the middle, and their answer of, "Yes my lord"; and finally, when asked
why he had not come earlier to report the matter, how he had answered that he had thought nothing
of it, having in his time seen more than a hundred bodies flung into the Tiber at night.

Returned to the garden gate, Giovanni bade the men go in without him. There was something yet
that he must do. When they had gone, he dismounted, and went to the body of the groom which
he had left under the wall. He must remove that too. He cut one of the stirrup-leathers from
the saddle, and attaching one end of it to the dead man's arm, mounted again, and dragged him
thus--ready to leave the body and ride off at the first alarm--some little way, until he came
to the Piazza della Giudecca. Here, in the very heart of the Jewish quarters, he left the body,
and his movements hereafter are a little obscure. Perhaps he set out to return to Pico della
Mirandola's house, but becoming, as was natural, uneasy on the way, fearing lest all traces
should, after all, not have been effaced, lest the Duke should be traced to that house, and
himself, if found there, dealt with summarily upon suspicion, he turned about, and went off
to seek sanctuary with his uncle, the Vice-Chancellor.

The Duke's horse, which he had ridden, he turned loose in the streets, where it was found some
hours later, and first gave occasion to rumours of foul play. The rumours growing, with the
discovery of the body of Gandia's groom, and search-parties of armed bargelli scouring Rome,
and the Giudecca in particular, in the course of the next two days, forth at last came Giorgio,
that boatman of the Schiavoni, with the tale of what he had seen. When the stricken Pope heard
it, he ordered the bed of the river to be dragged foot by foot, with the result that the ill-starred
Duke of Gandia was brought up in one of the nets, whereupon the heartless Sanazzaro coined
his terrible epigram concerning that successor of Saint Peter, that Fisherman of Men.

The people, looking about for him who had the greatest motive for that deed, were quick to
fasten the guilt upon Giovanni Sforza, who by that time was far from Rome, riding hard for
the shelter of his tyranny of Pesaro; and the Cardinal Ascanio Sforza, who was also mentioned,
and who feared to be implicated, apprehensive ever lest his page should have seen the betraying
arms upon the ring of his masked visitor--fled also, nor could be induced to return save under
a safe-conduct from the Holy Father, expressing conviction of his innocence.

Later public rumour accused others; indeed, they accused in turn every man who could have been
a possible perpetrator, attributing to some of them the most fantastic and incredible motives.
Once, prompted no doubt by their knowledge of the libertine, pleasure-loving nature of the
dead Duke, rumour hit upon the actual circumstances of the murder so closely, indeed, that
the Count of Mirandola's house was visited by the bargelli and subjected to an examination,
at which Pico violently rebelled, appealing boldly to the Pope against insinuations that reflected
upon the honour of his daughter.

The mystery remained impenetrable, and the culprit was never brought to justice. We know that
in slaying Gandia, Giovanni Sforza vented a hatred whose object was not Gandia, but Gandia's
father. His aim was to deal Pope Alexander the cruellest and most lingering of wounds, and
if he lacked the avenger's satisfaction of disclosing himself, at least he did not lack assurance
that his blow had stricken home. He heard--as all Italy heard--from that wayfarer on the bridge
of Sant' Angelo, how the Pope, in a paroxysm of grief at sight of his son's body fished from
the Tiber, had bellowed in his agony like a tortured bull, so that his cries within the castle
were heard upon the bridge. He learnt how the handsome, vigorous Pope staggered into the consistory
of the 19th of that same month with the mien and gait of a palsied old man, and, in a voice
broken with sobs, proclaimed his bitter lament:

"Had we seven Papacies we would give them all to restore the Duke to life."

He might have been content. But he was not. That deep hate of his against those who had made
him a thing of scorn was not so easily to be slaked. He waited, spying his opportunity for
further hurt. It came a year later, when Gandia's brother, the ambitious Cesare Borgia, divested
himself of his cardinalitial robes and rank, exchanging them for temporal dignities and the
title of Duke of Valentinois. Then it was that he took up the deadly weapon of calumny, putting
it secretly about that Cesare was the murderer of his brother, spurred to it by worldly ambition
and by other motives which involved the principal members of the family.

Men do not mount to Borgia heights without making enemies. The evil tale was taken up in all
its foul trappings, and, upon no better authority than the public voice, it was enshrined in
chronicles by every scribbler of the day. And for four hundred years that lie has held its
place in history, the very cornerstone of all the execration that has been heaped upon the
name of Borgia. Never was vengeance more terrible, far-reaching, and abiding. It is only in
this twentieth century of ours that dispassionate historians have nailed upon the counter of
truth the base coin of that accusation.

XII. THE NIGHT OF ESCAPE--Casanova's Escape From The Piombi

Patrician influence from without had procured Casanova's removal in August of that year, 1756,
from the loathsome cell he had occupied for thirteen months in the Piombi--so called from the
leaded roof immediately above those prisons which are simply the garrets of the Doge's palace.

That cell had been no better than a kennel seldom reached by the light of day, and so shallow
that it was impossible for a man of his fine height to stand upright in it. But his present
prison was comparatively spacious and it was airy and well-lighted by a barred window, whence
he could see the Lido.

Yet he was desperately chagrined at the change, for he had almost completed his arrangements
to break out of his former cell. The only ray of hope in his present despair came from the
fact that the implement to which he trusted was still in his possession, safely concealed in
the upholstery of the armchair that had been moved with him into his present quarters. That
implement he had fashioned for himself with infinite pains out of a door-bolt some twenty inches
long, which he had found discarded in a rubbish-heap in a corner of the attic where he had
been allowed to take his brief daily exercise. Using as a whetstone a small slab of black marble,
similarly acquired, he had shaped that bolt into a sharp octagonal-pointed chisel or spontoon.

It remained in his possession, but he saw no chance of using it now, for the suspicions of
Lorenzo, the gaoler, were aroused, and daily a couple of archers came to sound the floors and
walls. True they did not sound the ceiling, which was low and within reach. But it was obviously
impossible to cut through the ceiling in such a manner as to leave the progress of the work unseen.

Hence his despair of breaking out of a prison where he had spent over a year without trial
or prospect of a trial, and where he seemed likely to spend the remainder of his days. He did
not even know precisely why he had been arrested. All that Giacomo Casanova knew was that he
was accounted a disturber of the public peace. He was notoriously a libertine, a gamester,
and heavily in debt: also--and this was more serious--he was accused of practising magic, as
indeed he had done, as a means of exploiting to his own profit the credulity of simpletons
of all degrees. He would have explained to the Inquisitors of State of the Most Serene Republic
that the books of magic found by their apparitors in his possession--"The Clavicula of Solomon,"
the "Zecor-ben," and other kindred works--had been collected by him as curious instances of
human aberration. But the Inquisitors of State would not have believed him, for the Inquisitors
were among those who took magic seriously. And, anyhow, they had never asked him to explain,
but had left him as if forgotten in that abominable verminous cell under the leads, until his
patrician friend had obtained him the mercy of this transfer to better quarters.

This Casanova was a man of iron nerve and iron constitution. Tall and well-made, he was boldly
handsome, with fine dark eyes and dark brown hair. In age he was barely one and twenty; but
he looked older, as well he might, for in his adventurer's way he had already gathered more
experience of life than most men gain in half a century.

The same influence that had obtained him his change of cell had also gained him latterly the
privilege--and he esteemed it beyond all else--of procuring himself books. Desiring the works
of Maffai, he bade his gaoler purchase them out of the allowance made him by the Inquisitors
in accordance with the Venetian custom. This allowance was graduated to the social status of
each prisoner. But the books being costly and any monthly surplus from his monthly expenditure
being usually the gaoler's perquisite, Lorenzo was reluctant to indulge him. He mentioned that
there was a prisoner above who was well equipped with books, and who, no doubt, would be glad
to lend in exchange.

Yielding to the suggestion, Casanova handed Lorenzo a copy of Peteau's "Rationarium," and received
next morning, in exchange, the first volume of Wolf. Within he found a sheet bearing in six
verses a paraphrase of Seneca's epigram, "Calamitosus est animus futuri anxius." Immediately
he perceived he had stumbled upon a means of corresponding with one who might be disposed to
assist him to break prison.

In reply, being a scholarly rascal (he had been educated for the priesthood), he wrote six
verses himself. Having no pen, he cut the long nail of his little finger to a point, and, splitting
it, supplied the want. For ink he used the juice of mulberries. In addition to the verses,
he wrote a list of the books in his possession, which he placed at the disposal of his fellow-captive.
He concealed the written sheet in the spine of that vellum-bound volume; and on the title-page,
in warning of this, he wrote the single Latin word "Latet." Next morning he handed the book
to Lorenzo, telling him that he had read it, and requesting the second volume.

That second volume came on the next day, and in the spine of it a long letter, some sheets
of paper, pens, and a pencil. The writer announced himself as one Marino Balbi, a patrician
and a monk, who had been four years in that prison, where he had since been given a companion
in misfortune, Count Andrea Asquino.

Thus began a regular and very full correspondence between the prisoners, and soon Casanova--who
had not lived on his wits for nothing--was able to form a shrewd estimate of Balbi's character.
The monk's letters revealed it as compounded of sensuality, stupidity, ingratitude, and indiscretion.

"In the world," says Casanova, "I should have had no commerce with a fellow of his nature.
But in the Piombi I was obliged to make capital out of everything that came under my hands."

The capital he desired to make in this instance was to ascertain whether Balbi would be disposed
to do for him what he could not do for himself. He wrote inquiring, and proposing flight.

Balbi replied that he and his companion would do anything possible to make their escape from
that abominable prison, but his lack of resource made him add that he was convinced that nothing
was possible.

"All that you have to do," wrote Casanova in answer, "is to break through the ceiling of my
cell and get me out of this, then trust to me to get you out of the Piombi. If you are disposed
to make the attempt, I will supply you with the means, and show you the way."

It was a characteristically bold reply, revealing to us the utter gamester that he was in all
things.

He knew that Balbi's cell was situated immediately under the leads, and he hoped that once
in it he should be able readily to find a way through the roof. That cell of Balbi's communicated
with a narrow corridor, no more than a shaft for light and air, which was immediately above
Casanova's prison. And no sooner had Balbi written, consenting, than Casanova explained what
was to do. Balbi must break through the wall of his cell into the little corridor, and there
cut a round hole in the floor precisely as Casanova had done in his former cell--until nothing
but a shell of ceiling remained--a shell that could be broken down by half a dozen blows when
the moment to escape should have arrived.

To begin with, he ordered Balbi to purchase himself two or three dozen pictures of saints,
with which to paper his walls, using as many as might be necessary for a screen to hide the
hole he would be cutting.

When Balbi wrote that his walls were hung with pictures of saints, it became a question of
conveying the spontoon to him. This was difficult, and the monk's fatuous suggestions merely
served further to reveal his stupidity. Finally Casanova's wits found the way. He bade Lorenzo
buy him an in-folio edition of the Bible which had just been published, and it was into the
spine of this enormous tome that he packed the precious spontoon, and thus conveyed it to Balbi,
who immediately got to work.

This was at the commencement of October. On the 8th of that month Balbi wrote to Casanova that
a whole night devoted to labour had resulted merely in the displacing of a single brick, which
so discouraged the faint-hearted monk that he was for abandoning an attempt whose only result
must be to increase in the future the rigour of their confinement.

Without hesitation, Casanova replied that he was assured of success--although he was far from
having any grounds for any such assurance. He enjoined the monk to believe him, and to persevere,
confident that as he advanced he would find progress easier. This proved, indeed, to be the
case, for soon Balbi found the brickwork yielding so rapidly to his efforts that one morning,
a week later, Casanova heard three light taps above his head--the preconcerted signal by which
they were to assure themselves that their notions of the topography of the prison were correct.

All that day he heard Balbi at work immediately above him, and again on the morrow, when Balbi
wrote that as the floor was of the thickness of only two boards, he counted upon completing
the job on the next day, without piercing the ceiling.

But it would seem as if Fortune were intent upon making a mock of Casanova, luring him to heights
of hope, merely to cast him down again into the depths of despair. Just as upon the eve of
breaking out of his former cell mischance had thwarted him, so now, when again he deemed himself
upon the very threshold of liberty, came mischance again to thwart him.

Early in the afternoon the sound of bolts being drawn outside froze his very blood and checked
his breathing. Yet he had the presence of mind to give the double knock that was the agreed
alarm signal, whereupon Balbi instantly desisted from his labours overhead.

Came Lorenzo with two archers, leading an ugly, lean little man of between forty and fifty
years of age, shabbily dressed and wearing a round black wig, whom the tribunal had ordered
should share Casanova's prison for the present. With apologies for leaving such a scoundrel
in Casanova's company, Lorenzo departed, and the newcomer went down upon his knees, drew forth
a chaplet, and began to tell his beads.

Casanova surveyed this intruder at once with disgust and despair. Presently his disgust was
increased when the fellow, whose name was Soradici, frankly avowed himself a spy in the service
of the Council of Ten, a calling which he warmly defended from the contempt universally--but
unjustly, according to himself--meted out to it. He had been imprisoned for having failed in
his duty on one occasion through succumbing to a bribe.

Conceive Casanova's frame of mind--his uncertainty as to how long this monster, as he calls
him, might be left in his company, his curbed impatience to regain his liberty, and his consciousness
of the horrible risk of discovery which delay entailed! He wrote to Balbi that night while
the spy slept, and for the present their operations were suspended. But not for very long.
Soon Casanova's wits resolved how to turn to account the weakness which he discovered in Soradici.

The spy was devout to the point of bigoted, credulous superstition. He spent long hours in
prayer, and he talked freely of his special devotion to the Blessed Virgin, and his ardent
faith in miracles.

Casanova--the arch-humbug who had worked magic to delude the credulous--determined there and
then to work a miracle for Soradici. Assuming an inspired air, he solemnly informed the spy
one morning that it had been revealed to him in a dream that Soradici's devotion to the Rosary
was about to be rewarded; that an angel was to be sent from heaven to deliver him from prison,
and that Casanova himself would accompany him in his flight.

If Soradici doubted, conviction was soon to follow. For Casanova foretold the very hour at
which the angel would come to break into the prison, and at that hour precisely--Casanova having
warned Balbi--the noise made by the angel overhead flung Soradici into an ecstasy of terror.

But when, at the end of four hours, the angel desisted from his labours, Soradici was beset
by doubts. Casanova explained to him that since angels invariably put on the garb of human
flesh when descending upon earth, they labour under human difficulties. He added the prophecy
that the angel would return on the last day of the month, the eve of All Saints'--two days
later--and that he would then conduct them out of captivity.

By this means Casanova ensured that no betrayal should be feared from the thoroughly duped
Soradici, who now spent the time in praying, weeping, and talking of his sins and of the inexhaustibility
of divine grace. To make doubly sure, Casanova added the most terrible oath that if, by a word
to the gaoler, Soradici should presume to frustrate the divine intentions, he would immediately
strangle him with his own hands.

On October 31st Lorenzo paid his usual daily visit early in the morning. After his departure
they waited some hours, Soradici in expectant terror, Casanova in sheer impatience to be at
work. Promptly at noon fell heavy blows overhead, and then, in a cloud of plaster and broken
laths, the heavenly messenger descended clumsily into Casanova's arms.

Soradici found this tall, gaunt, bearded figure, clad in a dirty shirt and a pair of leather
breeches, of a singularly unangelic appearance; indeed, he looked far more like a devil.

When he produced a pair of scissors, so that the spy might cut Casanova's beard, which, like
the angel's, had grown in captivity, Soradici ceased to have any illusions on the score of
Balbi's celestial nature. Although still intrigued--since he could not guess at the secret
correspondence that had passed between Casanova and Balbi--he perceived quite clearly that
he had been fooled.

Leaving Soradici in the monk's care, Casanova hoisted himself through the broken ceiling and
gained Balbi's cell, where the sight of Count Asquino dismayed him. He found a middle-aged
man of a corpulence which must render it impossible for him to face the athletic difficulties
that lay before them; of this the Count himself seemed already persuaded.

"If you think," was his greeting, as he shook Casanova's hand, "to break through the roof and
find a way down from the leads, I don't see how you are to succeed without wings. I have not
the courage to accompany you," he added, "I shall remain and pray for you."

Attempting no persuasions where they must have been idle, Casanova passed out of the cell again,
and approaching as nearly as possible to the edge of the attic, he sat down where he could
touch the roof as it sloped immediately above his head. With his spontoon he tested the timbers,
and found them so decayed that they almost crumbled at the touch. Assured thereby that the
cutting of a hole would be an easy matter, he at once returned to his cell, and there he spent
the ensuing four hours in preparing ropes. He cut up sheets, blankets, coverlets, and the very
cover of his mattress, knotting the strips together with the utmost care. In the end he found
himself equipped with some two hundred yards of rope, which should be ample for any purpose.

Having made a bundle of the fine taffeta suit in which he had been arrested, his gay cloak
of floss silk, some stockings, shirts, and handkerchiefs, he and Balbi passed up to the other
cell, compelling Soradici to go with them. Leaving the monk to make a parcel of his belongings,
Casanova went to tackle the roof. By dusk he had made a hole twice as large as was necessary,
and had laid bare the lead sheeting with which the roof was covered. Unable, single-handed,
to raise one of the sheets, he called Balbi to his aid, and between them, assisted by the spontoon,
which Casanova inserted between the edge of the sheet and the gutter, they at last succeeded
in tearing away the rivets. Then by putting their shoulders to the lead they bent it upwards
until there was room to emerge, and a view of the sky flooded by the vivid light of the crescent
moon.

Not daring in that light to venture upon the roof, where they would be seen, they must wait
with what patience they could until midnight, when the moon would have set. So they returned
to the cell where they had left Soradici with Count Asquino.

From Balbi, Casanova had learnt that Asquino, though well supplied with money, was of an avaricious
nature. Nevertheless, since money would be necessary, Casanova asked the Count for the loan
of thirty gold sequins. Asquino answered him gently that, in the first place, they would not
need money to escape; that, in the second, he had a numerous family; that, in the third, if
Casanova perished the money would be lost; and that, in the fourth, he had no money.

"My reply," writes Casanova, "lasted half an hour."

"Let me remind you," he said in concluding his exhortation, "of your promise to pray for us,
and let me ask you what sense there can be in praying for the success of an enterprise to which
you refuse to contribute the most necessary means."

The old man was so far conquered by Casanova's eloquence that he offered him two sequins, which
Casanova accepted, since he was not in case to refuse anything.

Thereafter, as they sat waiting for the moon to set, Casanova found his earlier estimate of
the monk's character confirmed. Balbi now broke into abusive reproaches. He found that Casanova
had acted in bad faith by assuring him that he had formed a complete plan of escape. Had he
suspected that this was a mere gambler's throw on Casanova's part, he would never have laboured
to get him out of his cell. The Count added his advice that they should abandon an attempt
foredoomed to failure, and, being concerned for the two sequins with which he had so reluctantly
parted, he argued the case at great length. Stifling his disgust, Casanova assured them that,
although it was impossible for him to afford them details of how he intended to proceed, he
was perfectly confident of success.

At half-past ten he sent Soradici--who had remained silent throughout--to report upon the night.
The spy brought word that in another hour or so the moon would have set, but that a thick mist
was rising, which must render the leads very dangerous.

"So long as the mist isn't made of oil, I am content," said Casanova. "Come, make a bundle
of your cloak. It is time we were moving."

But at this Soradici fell on his knees in the dark, seized Casanova's hands, and begged to
be left behind to pray for their safety, since he would be sure to meet his death if he attempted
to go with them.

Casanova assented readily, delighted to be rid of the fellow. Then in the dark he wrote as
best he could a quite characteristic letter to the Inquisitors of State, in which he took his
leave of them, telling them that since he had been fetched into the prison without his wishes
being consulted, they could not complain that he should depart without consulting theirs.

The bundle containing Balbi's clothes, and another made up of half the rope, he slung from
the monk's neck, thereafter doing the same in his own case. Then, in their shirt-sleeves, their
hats on their heads, the pair of them started on their perilous journey, leaving Count Asquino
and Soradici to pray for them.

Casanova went first, on all fours, and thrusting the point of his spontoon between the joints
of the lead sheeting so as to obtain a hold, he crawled slowly upwards. To follow, Balbi took
a grip of Casanova's belt with his right hand, so that, in addition to making his own way,
Casanova was compelled to drag the weight of his companion after him, and this up the sharp
gradient of a roof rendered slippery by the mist.

Midway in that laborious ascent, the monk called to him to stop. He had dropped the bundle
containing the clothes, and he hoped that it had not rolled beyond the gutter, though he did
not mention which of them should retrieve it. After the unreasonableness already endured from
this man, Casanova's exasperation was such in that moment that, he confesses, he was tempted
to kick him after this bundle. Controlling himself, however, he answered patiently that the
matter could not now be helped, and kept steadily amain.

At last the apex of the roof was reached, and they got astride of it to breathe and to take
a survey of their surroundings. They faced the several cupolas of the Church of Saint Mark,
which is connected with the ducal palace, being, in fact, no more than the private chapel of
the Doge.

They set down their bundles, and, of course, in the act of doing so the wretched Balbi must
lose his hat, and send it rolling down the roof after the bundle he had already lost. He cried
out that it was an evil omen.

"On the contrary," Casanova assured him patiently, "it is a sign of divine protection; for
if your bundle or your hat had happened to roll to the left instead of the right it would have
fallen into the courtyard, where it would be seen by the guards, who must conclude that some
one is moving on the roof, and so, no doubt, would have discovered us. As it is your hat has
followed your bundle into the canal, where it can do no harm."

Thereupon, bidding the monk await his return, Casanova set off alone on a voyage of discovery,
keeping for the present astride of the roof in his progress. He spent a full hour wandering
along the vast roof, going to right and to left in his quest, but failing completely to make
any helpful discovery, or to find anything to which he could attach a rope. In the end it began
to look as if, after all, he must choose between returning to prison and flinging himself from
the roof into the canal. He was almost in despair, when in his wanderings his attention was
caught by a dormer window on the canal side, about two-thirds of the way down the slope of
the roof. With infinite precaution he lowered himself down the steep, slippery incline until
he was astride of the little dormer roof. Leaning well forward, he discovered that a slender
grating barred the leaded panes of the window itself, and for a moment this grating gave him pause.

Midnight boomed just then from the Church of Saint Mark, like a reminder that but seven hours
remained in which to conquer this and further difficulties that might confront him, and in
which to win clear of that place, or else submit to a resumption of his imprisonment under
conditions, no doubt, a hundredfold more rigorous.

Lying flat on his stomach, and hanging far over, so as to see what he was doing, he worked
one point of his spontoon into the sash of the grating, and, levering outwards, he strained
until at last it came away completely in his hands. After that it was an easy matter to shatter
the little latticed window.

Having accomplished so much, he turned, and, using his spontoon as before, he crawled back
to the summit of the roof, and made his way rapidly along this to the spot where he had left
Balbi. The monk, reduced by now to a state of blending despair, terror, and rage, greeted Casanova
in terms of the grossest abuse for having left him there so long.

"I was waiting only for daylight," he concluded, "to return to prison."

"What did you think had become of me?" asked Casanova.

"I imagined that you had tumbled off the roof."

"And is this abuse the expression of your joy at finding yourself mistaken?"

"Where have you been all this time?" the monk counter-questioned sullenly.

"Come with me and you shall see."

And taking up his bundle again, Casanova led his companion forward until they were in line
with the dormer. There Casanova showed him what he had done, and consulted him as to the means
to be adopted to enter the attic. It would be too risky for them to allow themselves to drop
from the sill, since the height of the window from the floor was unknown to them, and might
be considerable. It would be easy for one of them to lower the other by means of the rope.
But it was not apparent how, hereafter, the other was to follow. Thus reasoned Casanova.

"You had better lower me, anyhow," said Balbi, without hesitation; for no doubt he was very
tired of that slippery roof, on which a single false step might have sent him to his account.
"Once I am inside you can consider ways of following me."

That cold-blooded expression of the fellow's egoism put Casanova in a rage for the second time
since they had left their prison. But, as before, he conquered it, and without uttering a word
he proceeded to unfasten the coil of rope. Making one end of it secure under Balbi's arms,
he bade the monk lie prone upon the roof, his feet pointing downwards, and then, paying out
rope, he lowered him to the dormer. He then bade him get through the window as far as the level
of his waist, and wait thus, hanging over and supporting himself upon the sill. When he had
obeyed, Casanova followed, sliding carefully down to the roof of the dormer. Planting himself
firmly, and taking the rope once more, he bade Balbi to let himself go without fear, and so
lowered him to the floor--a height from the window, as it proved, of some fifty feet. This
extinguished all Casanova's hopes of being able to follow by allowing himself to drop from
the sill. He was dismayed. But the monk, happy to find himself at last off that accursed roof,
and out of all danger of breaking his neck, called foolishly to Casanova to throw him the rope
so that he might take care of it.

"As may be imagined," says Casanova, "I was careful not to take this idiotic advice."

Not knowing now what was to become of him unless he could discover some other means than those
at his command, he climbed back again to the summit of the roof, and started off desperately
upon another voyage of discovery. This time he succeeded better than before. He found about
a cupola a terrace which he had not earlier noticed, and on this terrace a hod of plaster,
a trowel, and a ladder some seventy feet long. He saw his difficulties solved. He passed an
end of rope about one of the rungs, laid the ladder flat along the slope of the roof, and then,
still astride of the apex, he worked his way back, dragging the ladder with him, until he was
once more on a level with the dormer.

But now the difficulty was how to get the ladder through the window, and he had cause to repent
having so hastily deprived himself of his companion's assistance. He had got the ladder into
position, and lowered it until one of its ends rested upon the dormer, whilst the other projected
some twenty feet beyond the edge of the roof. He slid down to the dormer, and placing the ladder
beside him, drew it up so that he could reach the eighth rung. To this rung he made fast his
rope, then lowered the ladder again until the upper end of it was in line with the window through
which he sought to introduce it. But he found it impossible to do so beyond the fifth rung,
for at this point the end of the ladder came in contact with the roof inside, and could be
pushed no farther until it was inclined downward. Now, the only possible way to accomplish
this was by raising the other end.

It occurred to him that he might, by so attaching the rope as to bring the ladder across the
window frame, lower himself hand over hand to the floor of the attic. But in so doing he must
have left the ladder there to show their pursuers in the morning, not merely the way they had
gone, but for all he knew at this stage, the place where they might then be still in hiding.
Having come so far, at so much risk and labour, he was determined to leave nothing to chance.
To accomplish his object then, he made his way down to the very edge of the roof, sliding carefully
on his stomach until his feet found support against the marble gutter, the ladder meanwhile
remaining hooked by one of its rungs to the sill of the dormer.

In that perilous position he lifted his end of the ladder a few inches, and so contrived to
thrust it another foot or so through the window, whereby its weight was considerably diminished.
If he could but get it another couple of feet farther in he was sure that by returning to the
dormer he would have been able to complete the job. In his anxiety to do this and to obtain
the necessary elevation, he raised himself upon his knees.

But in the very act of making the thrust he slipped, and, clutching wildly as he went, he shot
over the edge of the roof. He found himself hanging there, suspended above that terrific abyss
by his hands and his elbows, which had convulsively hooked themselves on to the edge of the
gutter, so that he had it on a level with his breast.

It was a moment of dread the like of which he was never likely to endure again in a life that
was to know many perils and many hairbreadth escapes. He could not write of it nearly half
a century later without shuddering and growing sick with horror.

A moment he hung there gasping, then almost mechanically, guided by the sheer instinct of self-preservation,
he not merely attempted, but actually succeeded in raising himself so as to bring his side
against the gutter. Then continuing gradually to raise himself until his waist was on a level
with the edge, he threw the weight of his trunk forward upon the roof, and slowly brought his
right leg up until he had obtained with his knee a further grip of the gutter. The rest was
easy, and you may conceive him as he lay there on the roof's edge, panting and shuddering for
a moment to regain his breath and nerve.

Meanwhile, the ladder, driven forward by the thrust that had so nearly cost him his life, had
penetrated another three feet through the window, and hung there immovable. Recovered, he took
up his spontoon, which he had placed in the gutter, and, assisted by it, he climbed back to
the dormer. Almost without further difficulty, he succeeded now in introducing the ladder until,
of its own weight, it swung down into position.

A moment later he had joined Balbi in the attic, and together they groped about in it the dark,
until finding presently a door, they passed into another chamber, where they discovered furniture
by hurtling against it. Guided by a faint glimmer of light, Casanova made his way to one of
the windows and opened it. He looked out upon a black abyss, and, having no knowledge of the
locality, and no inclination to adventure himself into unknown regions, he immediately abandoned
all idea of attempting to climb down. He closed the window again, and going back to the other
room, he lay down on the floor, with the bundle of ropes for a pillow, to wait for dawn.

And so exhausted was he, not only by the efforts of the past hours, and the terrible experience
in which they had culminated, but also because in the last two days he had scarcely eaten or
slept, that straightway, and greatly to Balbi's indignation and disgust, he fell into a profound
sleep.

He was aroused three and a half hours later by the clamours and shakings of the exasperated
monk. Protesting that such a sleep at such a time was a thing inconceivable, Balbi informed
him that it had just struck five.

It was still dark, but already there was a dim grey glimmer of dawn by which objects could
be faintly discerned. Searching, Casanova found another door opposite that of the chamber which
they had entered earlier. It was locked, but the lock was a poor one that yielded to half a
dozen blows of the spontoon, and they passed into a little room beyond which by an open door
they came into a long gallery lined with pigeon-holes stuffed with parchments, which they conceived
to be the archives. At the end of this gallery they found a short flight of stairs, and below
that yet another, which brought them to a glass door. Opening this, they entered a room which
Casanova immediately identified as the ducal chancellery. Descent from one of its windows would
have been easy, but they would have found themselves in the labyrinth of courts and alleys
behind Saint Mark's, which would not have suited them at all.

On a table Casanova found a stout bodkin with a long wooden handle, the implement used by the
secretaries for piercing parchments that were to be joined by a cord bearing the leaden seals
of the Republic. He opened a desk, and rummaging in it, found a letter addressed to the Proveditor
of Corfu, advising a remittance of three thousand sequins for the repair of the fortress. He
rummaged further, seeking the three thousand sequins, which he would have appropriated without
the least scruple. Unfortunately they were not there.

Quitting the desk, he crossed to the door, not merely to find it locked, but to discover that
it was not the kind of lock that would yield to blows. There was no way out but by battering
away one of the panels, and to this he addressed himself without hesitation, assisted by Balbi,
who had armed himself with the bodkin, but who trembled fearfully at the noise of Casanova's
blows. There was danger in this, but the danger must be braved, for time was slipping away.
In half an hour they had broken down all the panel it was possible to remove without the help
of a saw. The opening they had made was at a height of five feet from the ground, and the splintered
woodwork armed it with a fearful array of jagged teeth.

They dragged a couple of stools to the door, and getting on to these, Casanova bade Balbi go
first. The long, lean monk folded his arms, and thrust head and shoulders through the hole;
then Casanova lifted him, first by the waist, then by the legs, and so helped him through into
the room beyond. Casanova threw their bundles after him, and then placing a third stool on
top of the other two, climbed on to it, and, being almost on a level with the opening, was
able to get through as far as his waist, when Balbi took him in his arms and proceeded to drag
him out. But it was done at the cost of torn breeches and lacerated legs, and when he stood
up in the room beyond he was bleeding freely from the wounds which the jagged edges of the
wood had dealt him.

After that they went down two staircases, and came out at last in the gallery leading to the
great doors at the head of that magnificent flight of steps known as the Giant's Staircase.
But these doors--the main entrance of the palace--were locked, and, at a glance, Casanova saw
that nothing short of a hatchet would serve to open them. There was no more to be done.

With a resignation that seemed to Balbi entirely cynical, Casanova sat down on the floor.

"My task is ended," he announced. "It is now for Heaven or Chance to do the rest. I don't know
whether the palace cleaners will come here to-day as it is All Saints', or to-morrow, which
will be All Souls'. Should any one come, I shall run for it the moment the door is opened,
and you had best follow me. If no one comes, I shall not move from here, and if I die of hunger,
so much the worse."

It was a speech that flung the monk into a passion. In burning terms he reviled Casanova, calling
him a madman, a seducer, a deceiver, a liar. Casanova let him rave. It was just striking six.
Precisely an hour had elapsed since they had left the attic.

Balbi, in his red flannel waistcoat and his puce-coloured leather breeches, might have passed
for a peasant; but Casanova, in torn garments that were soaked in blood, presented an appearance
that was terrifying and suspicious. This he proceeded to repair. Tearing a handkerchief, he
made shift to bandage his wounds, and then from his bundle he took his fine taffeta summer
suit, which on a winter's day must render him ridiculous.

He dressed his thick, dark brown hair as best he could, drew on a pair of white stockings,
and donned three lace shirts one over another. His fine cloak of floss silk he gave to Balbi,
who looked for all the world as if he had stolen it.

Thus dressed, his fine hat laced with point of Spain on his head, Casanova opened a window
and looked out. At once he was seen by some idlers in the courtyard, who, amazed at his appearance
there, and conceiving that he must have been locked in by mistake on the previous day, went
off at once to advise the porter. Meanwhile, Casanova, vexed at having shown himself where
he had not expected any one, and little guessing how excellently this was to serve his ends,
left the window and went to sit beside the angry friar, who greeted him with fresh revilings.

A sound of steps and a rattle of keys stemmed Balbi's reproaches in full flow. The lock groaned.

"Not a word," said Casanova to the monk, "but follow me."

Holding his spontoon ready, but concealed under his coat, he stepped to the side of the door.
It opened, and the porter, who had come alone and bareheaded, stared in stupefaction at the
strange apparition of Casanova.

Casanova took advantage of that paralyzing amazement. Without uttering a word, he stepped quickly
across the threshold, and with Balbi close upon his heels, he went down the Giant's Staircase
in a flash, crossed the little square, reached the canal, bundled Balbi into the first gondola
he found there, and jumped in after him.

"I want to go to Fusine, and quickly," he announced. "Call another oarsman."

All was ready, and in a moment the gondola was skimming the canal. Dressed in his unseasonable
suit, and accompanied by the still more ridiculous figure of Balbi in his gaudy cloak and without
a hat, he imagined he would be taken for a charlatan or an astrologer.

The gondola slipped past the custom-house, and took the canal of the Giudecca. Halfway down
this, Casanova put his head out of the little cabin to address the gondolier in the poop.

"Do you think we shall reach Mestre in an hour?"

"Mestre?" quoth the gondolier. "But you said Fusine."

"No, no, I said Mestre--at least, I intended to say Mestre."

And so the gondola was headed for Mestre by a gondolier who professed himself ready to convey
his excellency to England if he desired it.

The sun was rising, and the water assumed an opalescent hue. It was a delicious morning, Casanova
tells us, and I suspect that never had any morning seemed to that audacious, amiable rascal
as delicious as this upon which he regained his liberty, which no man ever valued more highly.

In spirit he was already safely over the frontiers of the Most Serene Republic, impatient to
transfer his body thither, as he shortly did, through vicissitudes that are a narrative in
themselves, and no part of this story of his escape from the Piombi and the Venetian Inquisitors
of State.

XIII. THE NIGHT OF MASQUERADE--The Assassination Of Gustavus III Of Sweden

Baron Bjelke sprang from his carriage almost before it had come to a standstill and without
waiting for the footman to let down the steps. With a haste entirely foreign to a person of
his station and importance, he swept into the great vestibule of the palace, and in a quivering
voice flung a question at the first lackey he encountered:

"Has His Majesty started yet?"

"Not yet, my lord."

The answer lessened his haste, but not his agitation. He cast off the heavy wolfskin pelisse
in which he had been wrapped, and, leaving it in the hands of the servant, went briskly up
the grand staircase, a tall, youthful figure, very graceful in the suit of black he wore.

As he passed through a succession of ante-rooms on his way to the private apartments of the
King, those present observed the pallor of his clean-cut face under the auburn tie-wig he affected,
and the feverish glow of eyes that took account of no one. They could not guess that Baron
Bjelke, the King's secretary and favourite, carried in his hands the life of his royal master,
or its equivalent in the shape of the secret of the plot to assassinate him.

In many ways Bjelke was no better than the other profligate minions of the profligate Gustavus
of Sweden. But he had this advantage over them, that his intellect was above their average.
He had detected the first signs of the approach of that storm which the King himself had so
heedlessly provoked. He knew, as much by reason as by intuition, that, in these days when the
neighbouring State of France writhed in the throes of a terrific revolution against monarchic
and aristocratic tyranny, it was not safe for a king to persist in the abuse of his parasitic
power. New ideas of socialism were in the air. They were spreading through Europe, and it was
not only in France that men accounted it an infamous anachronism that the great mass of a community
should toil and sweat and suffer for the benefit of an insolent minority.

Already had there been trouble with the peasantry in Sweden, and Bjelke had endangered his
position as a royal favourite by presuming to warn his master. Gustavus III desired amusement,
not wisdom, from those about him. He could not be brought to realize the responsibilities which
kingship imposes upon a man. It has been pretended that he was endowed with great gifts of
mind. He may have been, though the thing has been pretended of so many princes that one may
be sceptical where evidence is lacking. If he possessed those gifts, he succeeded wonderfully
in concealing them under a nature that was frivolously gay, dissolute, and extravagant.

His extravagance forced him into monstrous extortions when only a madman would have wasted
in profligacy the wealth so cruelly wrung from long-suffering subjects. From extortion he was
driven by his desperate need of money into flagrant dishonesty. At a stroke of the pen he had
reduced the value of the paper currency by one-third--a reduction so violent and sudden that,
whilst it impoverished many, it involved some in absolute ruin--and this that he might gratify
his appetite for magnificence and enrich the rapacious favourites who shared his profligacy.

The unrest in the kingdom spread. It was no longer a question of the resentment of a more or
less docile peasantry whose first stirrings of revolt were easily quelled. The lesser nobility
of Sweden were angered by a measure--following upon so many others--that bore peculiarly heavily
upon themselves; and out of that anger, fanned by one man--John Jacob Ankarstrom--who had felt
the vindictive spirit of royal injustice, flamed in secret the conspiracy against the King's
life which Bjelke had discovered.

He had discovered it by the perilous course of joining the conspirators. He had won their confidence,
and they recognized that his collaboration was rendered invaluable by the position he held
so near the King. And in his subtle wisdom, at considerable danger to himself, Bjelke had kept
his counsel. He had waited until now, until the moment when the blow was about to fall, before
making the disclosure which should not only save Gustavus, but enable him to cast a net in
which all the plotters must be caught. And he hoped that when Gustavus perceived the narrowness
of his escape, and the reality of the dangers amid which he walked, he would consider the wisdom
of taking another course in future.

He had reached the door of the last ante-chamber, when a detaining hand was laid upon his arm.
He found himself accosted by a page--the offspring of one of the noblest families in Sweden,
and the son of one of Bjelke's closest friends, a fair-haired, impudent boy to whom the secretary
permitted a certain familiarity.

"Are you on your way to the King, Baron?" the lad inquired.

"I am, Carl. What is it?"

"A letter for His Majesty--a note fragrant as a midsummer rose--which a servant has just delivered
to me. Will you take it?"

"Give it to me, impudence," said Bjelke, the ghost of a smile lighting for a moment his white face.

He took the letter and passed on into the last antechamber, which was empty of all but a single
chamberlain-in-waiting. This chamberlain bowed respectfully to the Baron.

"His Majesty?" said Bjelke.

"He is dressing. Shall I announce Your Excellency?"

"Pray do."

The chamberlain vanished, and Bjelke was left alone. Waiting, he stood there, idly fingering
the scented note he had received from the page. As he turned it in his fingers the superscription
came uppermost, and he turned it no more. His eyes lost their absorbed look, their glance quickened
into attention, a frown shaped itself between them like a scar; his breathing, suspended a
moment, was renewed with a gasp. He stepped aside to a table bearing a score of candles clustered
in a massive silver branch, and held the note so that the light fell full upon the writing.

Standing thus, he passed a hand over his eyes and stared again, two hectic spots burning now
in his white cheeks. Abruptly, disregarding the superscription, his trembling fingers snapped
the blank seal and unfolded the letter addressed to his royal master. He was still reading
when the chamberlain returned to announce that the King was pleased to see the Baron at once.
He did not seem to hear the announcement. His attention was all upon the letter, his lips drawn
back from his teeth in a grin, and beads of perspiration glistening upon his brow.

"His Majesty--" the chamberlain was beginning to repeat, when he broke off suddenly. "Your
Excellency is ill?"

"Ill?"

Bjelke stared at him with glassy eyes. He crumpled the letter in his hand and stuffed one and
the other into the pocket of his black satin coat. He attempted to laugh to reassure the startled
chamberlain, and achieved a ghastly grimace.

"I must not keep His Majesty waiting," he said thickly, and stumbled on, leaving in the chamberlain's
mind a suspicion that His Majesty's secretary was not quite sober.

But Bjelke so far conquered his emotion that he was almost his usual imperturbable self when
he reached the royal dressing-room; indeed, he no longer displayed even the agitation that
had possessed him when first he entered the palace.

Gustavus, a slight, handsome man of a good height, was standing before a cheval-glass when
Bjelke came in. Francois, the priceless valet His Majesty had brought back from his last pleasure-seeking
visit to pre-revolutionary Paris some five years ago, was standing back judicially to consider
the domino he had just placed upon the royal shoulders. Baron Armfelt whom the conspirators
accused of wielding the most sinister of all the sinister influences that perverted the King's
mind--dressed from head to foot in shimmering white satin, lounged on a divan with all the
easy familiarity permitted to this most intimate of courtiers, the associate of all royal follies.

Gustavus looked over his shoulder as he entered.

"Why, Bjelke," he exclaimed, "I thought you had gone into the country!"

"I am at a loss," replied Bjelke, "to imagine what should have given Your Majesty so mistaken
an impression." And he might have smiled inwardly to observe how his words seemed to put Gustavus
out of countenance.

The King laughed, nevertheless, with an affectation of ease.

"I inferred it from your absence from Court on such a night. What has been keeping you?" But,
without waiting for an answer, he fired another question. "What do you say to my domino, Bjelke?"

It was a garment embroidered upon a black satin ground with tongues of flame so cunningly wrought
in mingling threads of scarlet and gold that as he turned about now they flashed in the candlelight,
and seemed to leap like tongues of living fire.

"Your Majesty will have a great success," said Bjelke, and to himself relished the full grimness
of his joke. For a terrible joke it was, seeing that he no longer intended to discharge the
errand which had brought him in such haste to the palace.

"Faith, I deserve it!" was the flippant answer, and he turned again to the mirror to adjust
a patch on the left side of his chin. "There is genius in this domino, and it is not the genius
of Francois, for the scheme of flames is my very own, the fruit of a deal of thought and study."

There Gustavus uttered his whole character. As a master of the revels, or an opera impresario,
this royal rake would have been a complete success in life. The pity of it was that the accident
of birth should have robed him in the royal purple. Like many another prince who has come to
a violent end, he was born to the wrong metier.

"I derived the notion," he continued, "from a sanbenito in a Goya picture."

"An ominous garb," said Bjelke, smiling curiously. "The garment of the sinner on his way to
penitential doom."

Armfelt cried out in a protest of mock horror, but Gustavus laughed cynically.

"Oh, I confess that it would be most apt. I had not thought of it."

His fingers sought a pomatum box, and in doing so displaced a toilet-case of red morocco. An
oblong paper package fell from the top of this and arrested the King's attention.

"Why, what is this?" He took it up--a letter bearing the superscription:

     To His MAJESTY THE KING
     SECRET AND IMPORTANT

"What is this, Francois?" The royal voice was suddenly sharp.

The valet glided forward, whilst Armfelt rose from the divan and, like Bjelke, attracted by
the sudden change in the King's tone and manner, drew near his master.

"How comes this letter here?"

The valet's face expressed complete amazement. It must have been placed there in his absence
an hour ago, after he had made all preparations for the royal toilette. It was certainly not
there at the time, or he must have seen it.

With impatient fingers Gustavus snapped the seal and unfolded the letter. Awhile he stood reading,
very still, his brows knit.

Then, with a contemptuous "Poof!" he handed it to his secretary.

At a glance Bjelke recognized the hand for that of Colonel Lillehorn, one of the conspirators,
whose courage had evidently failed him in the eleventh hour. He read:

SIRE,--Deign to heed the warning of one who, not being in your service, nor solicitous of your
favours, flatters not your crimes, and yet desires to avert the danger threatening you. There
is a plot to assassinate you which would by now have been executed but for the countermanding
of the ball at the opera last week. What was not done then will certainly be done to-night
if you afford the opportunity. Remain at home and avoid balls and public gatherings for the
rest of the year; thus the fanaticism which aims at your life will evaporate.

"Do you know the writing?" Gustavus asked.

Bjelke shrugged. "The hand will be disguised, no doubt," he evaded.

"But you will heed the warning, Sire?" exclaimed, Armfelt, who had read over the secretary's
shoulder, and whose face had paled in reading.

Gustavus laughed contemptuously. "Faith, if I were to heed every scaremonger, I should get
but little amusement out of life."

Yet he was angry, as his shifting colour showed. The disrespectful tone of the anonymous communication
moved him more deeply than its actual message. He toyed a moment with a hair-ribbon, his nether
lip thrust out in thought. At last he rapped out an oath of vexation, and proffered the ribbon
to his valet.

"My hair, Francois," said he, "and then we will be going."

"Going!"

It was an ejaculation of horror from Armfelt, whose face was now as white as the ivory-coloured
suit he wore.

"What else? Am I to be intimidated out of my pleasures?" Yet that his heart was less stout
than his words his very next question showed. "Apropos, Bjelke, what was the reason why you
countermanded the ball last week?"

"The councillors from Gefle claimed Your Majesty's immediate attention," Bjelke reminded him.

"So you said at the time. But the business seemed none so urgent when we came to it. There
was no other reason in your mind--no suspicion?"

His keen, dark blue eyes were fixed upon the pale masklike face of the secretary.

That grave, almost stern countenance relaxed into a smile.

"I suspected no more than I suspect now," was his easy equivocation. "And all that I suspect
now is that some petty enemy is attempting to scare Your Majesty."

"To scare me?" Gustavus flushed to the temples. "Am I a man to be scared?"

"Ah, but consider, Sire, and you, Bjelke," Armfelt was bleating. "This may be a friendly warning.
In all humility, Sire, let me suggest that you incur no risk; that you countermand the masquerade."

"And permit the insolent writer to boast that he frightened the King?" sneered Bjelke.

"Faith, Baron, you are right. The thing is written with intent to make a mock of me."

"But if it were not so, Sire?" persisted the distressed Armfelt. And volubly he argued now
to impose caution, reminding the King of his enemies, who might, indeed, be tempted to go the
lengths of which the anonymous writer spoke. Gustavus listened, and was impressed.

"If I took heed of every admonition," he said, "I might as well become a monk at once. And
yet--" He took his chin in his hand, and stood thoughtful, obviously hesitating, his head bowed,
his straight, graceful figure motionless.

Thus until Bjelke, who now desired above all else the very thing he had come hot-foot to avert,
broke the silence to undo what Armfelt had done.

