  Havin notist a gineral desire on the part
of young men who are into the crisis to wear eppylits, I detarmined to have my company composed
excloosviely of offissers, everybody to rank as Brigadeer-Ginral.  The follerin was among the
varis questions which I put to recroots:

  Do you know a masked battery from a hunk of gingerbread? 

  You ain ginnerly been rid on an witch?

  Never, you ginral mighty men. Dey arrive i heard by delaware
night, well soon on you sink on to slumber.

  Company set a bridle off your head, an bit in your mouth, a
an saddle in your back. Den dey take off their surface a hang application
down after de wall.

  Have you ever had the measles, and if so, how many?

  How air you now?

  Show me your tongue, &c., &c.  Sum of the questions was
sarcusstical.

The company filled up rapid, and last Sunday we went to the meetin house in full uniform. 
I had a seris time gittin into my military harness, as it was bilt for me many years ago; but
I finally got inside of it, tho' it fitted me putty clost. Howsever, onct into it, I lookt
fine--in fact, aw-inspirin. "Do you know me, Mrs. Ward?" sed I, walking into the kitchin.

"Know you, you old fool?  Of course I do."

I saw at once she did.

I started for the meetin house, and I'm afraid I tried to walk too strate, for I cum very near
fallin over backards; and in attemptin to recover myself, my sword got mixed up with my legs,
and I fell in among a choice collection of young ladies, who was standin near the church door
a-seein the sojer boys come up.  My cockt hat fell off, and sumhow my coat tales got twisted
round my neck.  The young ladies put their handkerchers to their mouths and remarked:  "Te
he," while my ancient female single friend, Sary Peasley, bust out in a loud larf.  She exercised
her mouth so vilently that her new false teeth fell out onto the ground.

"Miss Peaseley," sed I, gittin up and dustin myself, "you must be more careful with them store
teeth of your'n or you'll have to gum it agin!"

Methinks I had her.

I'd bin to work hard all the week, and I felt rather snoozy. I'm 'fraid I did git half asleep,
for on hearin the minister ask, "Why was man made to mourn?" I sed, "I giv it up," havin a
vague idee that it was a condrum.  It was a onfortnit remark, for the whole meetin house lookt
at me with mingled surprise and indignation.  I was about risin to a pint of order, when it
suddenly occurd to me whare I was, and I kept my seat, blushin like the red, red rose--so to speak.

The next mornin I 'rose with the lark (N.B.--I don't sleep with the lark, tho.'  A goak).

My little dawter was execootin ballids, accompanyin herself with the Akordeon, and she wisht
me to linger and hear her sing:  "Hark I hear a angel singin, a angel now is onto the wing."

"Let him fly, my child!" sed I, a-bucklin on my armer; "I must forth to my Biz."

We air progressin pretty well with our drill.  As all air commandin offissers, there ain't
no jelusy, and as we air all exceedin smart, it t'aint worth while to try to outstrip each
other.  The idee of a company composed excloosively of Commanders-in-Chiefs, orriggernated,
I spose I skurcely need say, in these Brane.  Considered AS a idee, I flatter myself it is
putty hefty.  We've got all the tackticks at our tongs' ends, but what we particly excel in
is restin muskits.  We can rest muskits with anybody.

Our corpse will do its dooty.  We go to the aid of Columby--we fight for the stars!

We'll be chopt into sassige meat before we'll exhibit our cote-tales to the foe.

We'll fight till there's nothin left of us but our little toes and even they shall defiantly
wiggle!

                                "Ever of thee,"
                                                 A. Ward.

2.5.  A WAR MEETING.

Our complaint just now is war meetin's.  They've bin havin 'em bad in varis parts of our cheerful
Republic, and nat'rally we caught 'em here in Baldinsville.  They broke out all over us. They're
better attended than the Eclipse was.

I remember how people poured into our town last Spring to see the Eclipse.  They labored into
a impression that they couldn't see it to home, and so they cum up to our place.  I cleared
a very handsome amount of money by exhibitin' the Eclipse to 'em, in an open-top tent.  But
the crowds is bigger now.  Posey County is aroused.  I may say, indeed, that the pra-hay-ories
of Injianny is on fire.

Our big meetin' came off the other night, and our old friend of the "Bugle" was elected Cheerman.

The "Bugle-Horn of Liberty" is one of Baldinsville's most
eminentest institootions.  The advertisements are well-
written, and the deaths and marriages are conducted with
signal ability.  The editor, MR. SLINKERS, is a polish'd,
skarcastic writer.  Folks in these parts will not soon forgit
how he used up the "Eagle of Freedom," a family journal
published at Snootville, near here.  The controversy was about
a plank road.  "The road may be, as our cotemporary says, a
humbug; but OUR aunt isn't bald-heded, and WE haven't got a
one-eyed sister Sal!  Wonder if the Editor of the "Eagle of
Freedom" sees it?"  This used up the "Eagle of Freedom"
feller, because his aunt's head does present a skinn'd
appearance, and his sister SARAH is very much one-eyed.  For a
genteel home-thrust, MR. SLINKERS has few ekals.  He is a man
of great pluck likewise.  He has a fierce nostril, and I
believe upon my soul that if it wasn't absolootly necessary
for him to remain here and announce in his paper, from week to
week, that "our Gov'ment is about to take vig'rous measures to
put down the rebellion"--I b'lieve, upon my soul, this
illustris man would enlist as a Brigadier Gin'ral, and git his
Bounty.
                         .  .  .  .

I was fixin myself up to attend the great war meetin', when my daughter entered with a young
man who was evijently from the city, and who wore long hair, and had a wild expression into
his eye.  In one hand he carried a port-folio, and his other paw claspt a bunch of small brushes.
My daughter introduced him as MR. SWEIBIER, the distinguished landscape painter from Philadelphy.

"He is a artist, papa.  Here is one of his master-pieces--a young mother gazin' admirin'ly
upon her first-born," and my daughter showed me a really pretty picter, done in ile.  "Is it
not beautiful, papa?  He throws so much soul into his work."

"Does he? does he?" said I--"well, I reckon I'd better hire him to whitewash our fence.  It
needs it.  What will you charge, sir," I continued, "to throw some soul into my fence?"

My daughter went out of the room in very short meeter, takin' the artist with her, and from
the emphatical manner in which the door slam'd, I concluded she was summat disgusted at my
remarks.  She closed the door, I may say, in ITALICS.  I went into the closet and larfed all
alone by myself for over half an hour.  I larfed so vi'lently that the preserve jars rattled
like a cavalry offisser's sword and things, which it aroused my BETSY, who came and opened
the door pretty suddent.  She seized me by the few lonely hairs that still linger sadly upon
my bare-footed hed, and dragged me out of the closet, incidentally obsarving that she didn't
exactly see why she should be compelled, at her advanced stage of life, to open a assylum for
sooperanooated idiots.

My wife is one of the best wimin on this continent, altho' she isn't always gentle as a lamb,
with mint sauce.  No, not always.

But to return to the war meetin'.  It was largely attended. The Editor of the "Bugle" arose
and got up and said the fact could no longer be disguised that we were involved in a war. "Human
gore," said he, "is flowin'.  All able-bodied men should seize a musket and march to the tented
field.  I repeat it sir, to the tented field."

