Up betimes, and to the office receiving letters, two or three one after another from Sir W.
Coventry, and sent as many to him, being full of variety of business and hurry, but among the
chiefest is the getting of these pressed men out of the City down the river to the fleete.
Having done this I to the Lieutenant of the Tower and bade him good night, and so away home
and to bed.  Thence home and to the Tower to see the men from Bridewell shipped.  Being rid
of him I home to dinner, and thence to the Excise office by appointment to meet my Lord Bellasses
and the Commissioners, which we did and soon dispatched, and so I home, and there was called
by Pegg Pen to her house, where her father and mother, and Mrs. Norton, the second Roxalana,
a fine woman, indifferent handsome, good body and hand, and good mine, and pretends to sing,
but do it not excellently. However I took pleasure there, and my wife was sent for, and Creed
come in to us, and so there we spent the most of the afternoon. Thence weary of losing so much
time I to the office, and thence presently down to Deptford; but to see what a consternation
there is upon the water by reason of this great press, that nothing is able to get a waterman
to appear almost.  But away they went, and I to the Lieutenant of the Tower, and having talked
with him a little, then home to supper very late and to bed weary.

3rd.  Being very weary, lay long in bed, then to the office and there sat all the day.  At
noon dined at home, Balty's wife with us, and in very good humour I was and merry at dinner,
and after dinner a song or two, and so I abroad to my Lord Treasurer's (sending my sister home
by the coach), while I staid there by appointment to have met my Lord Bellasses and Commissioners
of Excise, but they did not meet me, he being abroad. However Mr. Finch, one of the Commissioners,
I met there, and he and I walked two houres together in the garden, talking of many things;
sometimes of Mr. Povy, whose vanity, prodigality, neglect of his business, and committing it
to unfit hands hath undone him and outed him of all his publique employments, and the thing
set on foot by an accidental revivall of a business, wherein he had three or fours years ago,
by surprize, got the Duke of Yorke to sign to the having a sum of money paid out of the Excise,
before some that was due to him, and now the money is fallen short, and the Duke never likely
to be paid.  This being revived hath undone Povy.  He told me many fine things, and so we parted,
and I home and hard to work a while at the office and then home and till midnight about settling
my last month's accounts wherein I have been interrupted by public business, that I did not
state them two or three days ago, but I do now to my great joy find myself worth above L5600,
for which the Lord's name be praised!  So with my heart full of content to bed.

4th.  Up, and visited very betimes by Mr. Sheply, who is come to town upon business from Hinchingbrooke,
where he left all well.  I out and walked along with him as far as Fleet Streete, it being
a fast day, the usual fast day for the plague, and few coaches to be had.  But, however, the
shew must be made to the world.  Thence to my Lord Bellasses to take my leave of him, he being
going down to the North to look after the Militia there, for fear of an invasion.  He gone
I to the office again, and so after some business home to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning busy, then at noon dined and Mr. Sheply
with me, who come to towne the other day.  I lent him 630 in silver upon 30 pieces in gold.
But to see how apt every body is to neglect old kindnesses!  I must charge myself with the
ingratitude of being unwilling to lend him so much money without some pawne, if he should have
asked it, but he did not aske it, poor man, and so no harm done.  After dinner, he gone, I
to my office and Lumbard Streete about money, and then to my office again, very busy, and so
till late, and then a song with my wife and Mercer in the garden, and so with great content to bed.

6th.  Up, and after doing some business at my office abroad to Lumbard Street, about the getting
of a good sum of money, thence home, in preparation for my having some good sum in my hands,
for fear of a trouble in the State, that I may not have all I have in the world out of my hands
and so be left a beggar. Thence to Lumbard Streete, and received L2000, and carried it home:
whereof L1000 in gold.  The greatest quantity not only that I ever had of gold, but that ever
I saw together, and is not much above half a 100 lb. bag full, but is much weightier.  This
I do for security sake, and convenience of carriage; though it costs me above L70 the change
of it, at 18 1/2d. per piece.  Being at home, I there met with a letter from Bab Allen,--[Mrs.
Knipp]--to invite me to be god-father to her boy, with Mrs. Williams, which I consented to,
but know not the time when it is to be. Thence down to the Old Swan, calling at Michell's,
he not being within, and there I did steal a kiss or two of her, and staying a little longer,
he come in, and her father, whom I carried to Westminster, my business being thither, and so
back again home, and very busy all the evening.  At night a song in the garden and to bed.

7th.  At the office all the morning, at noon dined at home and Creed with me, and after dinner
he and I two or three hours in my chamber discoursing of the fittest way for a man to do that
hath money, and find all he offers of turning some into gold and leaving some in a friend's
hand is nothing more than what I thought of myself, but is doubtful, as well as I, what is
best to be done of all these or other ways to be thought on.  Thence left him and to my office
all the afternoon busy, and in some pain in my back by some bruise or other I have given myself
in my right testicle this morning, and the pain lies there and hath done, and in my back thereupon
all this day.  At night into the garden to my wife and Lady Pen and Pegg, and Creed, who staid
with them till to at night.  My Lady Pen did give us a tarte and other things, and so broke
up late and I to bed.  It proved the hottest night that ever I was in in my life, and thundered
and lightened all night long and rained hard.  But, Lord!  to see in what fears I lay a good
while, hearing of a little noise of somebody walking in the house: so rung the bell, and it
was my mayds going to bed about one o'clock in the morning.  But the fear of being robbed,
having so much money in the house, was very great, and is still so, and do much disquiet me.

8th (Lord's day).  Up, and pretty well of my pain, so that it did not trouble me at all, and
I do clearly find that my pain in my back was nothing but only accompanied my bruise in my
stones.  To church, wife and Mercer and I, in expectation of hearing some mighty preacher to-day,
Mrs. Mary Batelier sending us word so; but it proved our ordinary silly lecturer, which made
me merry, and she laughed upon us to see her mistake. At noon W. Hewer dined with us, and a
good dinner, and I expected to have had newes sent me of Knipp's christening to-day; but, hearing
nothing of it, I did not go, though I fear it is but their forgetfulness and so I may disappoint
them.  To church, after dinner, again, a thing I have not done a good while before, go twice
in one day. After church with my wife and Mercer and Tom by water through bridge to the Spring
Garden at Fox Hall, and thence down to Deptford and there did a little business, and so back
home and to bed.

9th.  Up betimes, and with Sir W. Pen in his coach to Westminster to Sir G. Downing's, but
missed of him, and so we parted, I by water home, where busy all the morning, at noon dined
at home, and after dinner to my office, where busy till come to by Lovett and his wife, who
have brought me some sheets of paper varnished on one side, which lies very white and smooth
and, I think, will do our business most exactly, and will come up to the use that I intended
them for, and I am apt to believe will be an invention that will take in the world.  I have
made up a little book of it to give Sir W. Coventry to-morrow, and am very well pleased with
it.  Home with them, and there find my aunt Wight with my wife come to take her leave of her,
being going for the summer into the country; and there was also Mrs. Mary Batelier and her
sister, newly come out of France, a black, very black woman, but mighty good-natured people
both, as ever I saw. Here I made the black one sing a French song, which she did mighty innocently;
and then Mrs. Lovett play on the lute, which she do very well; and then Mercer and I sang;
and so, with great pleasure, I left them, having shewed them my chamber, and L1000 in gold,
which they wondered at, and given them sweetmeats, and shewn my aunt Wight my father's picture,
which she admires.  So I left them and to the office, where Mr. Moore come to me and talking
of my Lord's family business tells me that Mr. Sheply is ignorantly, we all believe, mistaken
in his accounts above L700 more than he can discharge himself of, which is a mighty misfortune,
poor man, and may undo him, and yet every body believes that he do it most honestly.  I am
troubled for him very much. He gone, I hard at the office till night, then home to supper and
to bed.

10th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning, sitting, and there presented Sir
W. Coventry with my little book made up of Lovett's varnished paper, which he and the whole
board liked very well. Then I took an opportunity, when they were all gone into the foreyarde,
and slipt into the office and there busy all the afternoon, but by and by the women got into
the garden, and come all to my closett window, and there tormented me, and I confess their
cries were so sad for money, and laying down the condition of their families and their husbands,
and what they have done and suffered for the King, and how ill they are used by us, and how
well the Dutch are used here by the allowance of their masters, and what their husbands are
offered to serve the Dutch abroad, that I do most heartily pity them, and was ready to cry
to hear them, but cannot helpe them.  However, when the rest were gone, I did call one to me
that I heard complaine only and pity her husband and did give her some money, and she blessed
me and went away.  Anon my business at the office being done I to the Tower to speak with Sir
John Robinson about business, principally the bad condition of the pressed men for want of
clothes, so it is represented from the fleete, and so to provide them shirts and stockings
and drawers.  Having done with him about that, I home and there find my wife and the two Mrs.
Bateliers walking in the garden.  I with them till almost 9 at night, and then they and we
and Mrs. Mercer, the mother, and her daughter Anne, and our Mercer, to supper to a good venison-pasty
and other good things, and had a good supper, and very merry, Mistresses Bateliers being both
very good-humoured.  We sang and talked, and then led them home, and there they made us drink;
and, among other things, did show us, in cages, some birds brought from about Bourdeaux, that
are all fat, and, examining one of them, they are so, almost all fat.  Their name is [Ortolans],
which are brought over to the King for him to eat, and indeed are excellent things.  We parted
from them and so home to bed, it being very late, and to bed.

11th.  Up, and by water to Sir G. Downing's, there to discourse with him about the reliefe
of the prisoners in Holland; which I did, and we do resolve of the manner of sending them some.
But, above all things, the King did speake most in contempt of the ceremoniousnesse of the
King of Spayne, that he do nothing but under some ridiculous form or other, and will not piss
but another must hold the chamber-pot.  Thence to Westminster, doing several things by the
way, and there failed of meeting Mrs. Lane, and so by coach took up my wife at her sister's,
and so away to Islington, she and I alone, and so through Hackney, and home late, our discourse
being about laying up of some money safe in prevention to the troubles I am afeard we may have
in the state, and so sleepy (for want of sleep the last night, going to bed late and rising
betimes in the morning) home, but when I come to the office, I there met with a command from
my Lord Arlington, to go down to a galliott at Greenwich, by the King's particular command,
that is going to carry the Savoy Envoye over, and we fear there may be many Frenchmen there
on board; and so I have a power and command to search for and seize all that have not passes
from one of the Secretarys of State, and to bring them and their papers and everything else
in custody some whither. So I to the Tower, and got a couple of musquetiers with me, and Griffen
and my boy Tom and so down; and, being come, found none on board but two or three servants,
looking to horses and doggs, there on board, and, seeing no more, I staid not long there, but
away and on shore at Greenwich, the night being late and the tide against us; so, having sent
before, to Mrs. Clerke's and there I had a good bed, and well received, the whole people rising
to see me, and among the rest young Mrs. Daniel, whom I kissed again and again alone, and so
by and by to bed and slept pretty well,

12th. And then again said that the only quality eminent in him was, that he did persevere;
and indeed he is a very drudge, and stands by the King's business.  And this he said, that
one thing he was good at, that he never would receive an excuse if the thing was not done;
listening to no reasoning for it, be it good or bad.  But then I told him, what he confessed,
that he would however give the man, that he employs, orders for removing of any obstruction
that he thinks he shall meet with in the world, and instanced in several warrants that he issued
for breaking open of houses and other outrages about the business of prizes, which people bore
with either for affection or fear, which he believes would not have been borne with from the
King, nor Duke, nor any man else in England, and I thinke he is in the right, but it is not
from their love of him, but from something else I cannot presently say.  Sir W. Coventry did
further say concerning Warcupp, his kinsman, that had the simplicity to tell Sir W. Coventry,
that the Duke did intend to go to sea and to leave him his agent on shore for all things that
related to the sea.  But, says Sir W. Coventry, I did believe but the Duke of Yorke would expect
to be his agent on shore for all sea matters.  And then he begun to say what a great man Warcupp
was, and something else, and what was that but a great lyer; and told me a story, how at table
he did, they speaking about antipathys, say, that a rose touching his skin any where, would
make it rise and pimple; and, by and by, the dessert coming, with roses upon it, the Duchesse
bid him try, and they did; but they rubbed and rubbed, but nothing would do in the world, by
which his lie was found at then.  He spoke contemptibly of Holmes and his mermidons, that come
to take down the ships from hence, and have carried them without any necessaries, or any thing
almost, that they will certainly be longer getting ready than if they had staid here.  In fine,
I do observe, he hath no esteem nor kindnesse for the Duke's matters, but, contrarily, do slight
him and them; and I pray God the Kingdom do not pay too dear by this jarring; though this blockheaded
Duke I did never expect better from.  At the office all the morning, at noon home and thought
to have slept, my head all day being full of business and yet sleepy and out of order, and
so I lay down on my bed in my gowne to sleep, but I could not, therefore about three o'clock
up and to dinner and thence to the office, where.  Mrs. Burroughs, my pretty widow, was and
so I did her business and sent her away by agreement, and presently I by coach after and took
her up in Fenchurch Streete and away through the City, hiding my face as much as I could, but
she being mighty pretty and well enough clad, I was not afeard, but only lest somebody should
see me and think me idle.  I quite through with her, and so into the fields Uxbridge way, a
mile or two beyond Tyburne, and then back and then to Paddington, and then back to Lyssen green,
a place the coachman led me to (I never knew in my life) and there we eat and drank and so
back to Chasing Crosse, and there I set her down.  All the way most excellent pretty company.
I had her lips as much as I would, and a mighty pretty woman she is and very modest and yet
kinde in all fair ways.  All this time I passed with mighty pleasure, it being what I have
for a long time wished for, and did pay this day 5s. forfeite for her company.  She being gone,
I to White Hall and there to Lord Arlington's, and met Mr. Williamson, and find there is no
more need of my trouble about the Galliott, so with content departed, and went straight home,
where at the office did the most at the office in that wearied and sleepy state I could, and
so home to supper, and after supper falling to singing with Mercer did however sit up with
her, she pleasing me with her singing of "Helpe, helpe," 'till past midnight and I not a whit
drowsy, and so to bed.

13th.  Lay sleepy in bed till 8 in the morning, then up and to the office, where till about
noon, then out to the 'Change and several places, and so home to dinner.  Then out again to
Sir R. Vines, and there to my content settled the business of two tallys, so as I shall have
L2000 almost more of my owne money in my hand, which pleases me mightily, and so home and there
to the office, where mighty busy, and then home to supper and to even my Journall and to bed.
Our fleete being now in all points ready to sayle, but for the carrying of the two or three
new ships, which will keepe them a day or two or three more.  It is said the Dutch is gone
off our coast, but I have no good reason to believe it, Sir W. Coventry not thinking any such
thing.  By this means I come to see and kiss Mr. Hill's young wife, and a blithe young woman
she is.  So to the office and at noon home to dinner, and then sent for young Michell and employed
him all the afternoon about weighing and shipping off of the corke, having by this means an
opportunity of getting him 30 or 40s.  Having set him a doing, I home and to the office very
late, very busy, and did indeed dispatch much business, and so to supper and to bed.  After
a song in the garden, which, and after dinner, is now the greatest pleasure I take, and indeed
do please me mightily, to bed, after washing my legs and feet with warm water in my kitchen.
This evening I had Davila

     [Enrico Caterino Davila (1576-1631) was one of the chief historical
     writers of Italy, and his "Storia delle guerre civili di Francia"
     covers a period of forty years, from the death of Henri II. to the
     Peace of Vervins in 1598.]

brought home to me, and find it a most excellent history as ever I read.

15th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, where our lecturer made a sorry silly sermon, upon the
great point of proving the truth of the Christian religion.  Home and had a good dinner, expecting
Mr. Hunt, but there comes only young Michell and his wife, whom my wife concurs with me to
be a pretty woman, and with her husband is a pretty innocent couple. Mightily pleasant we were,
and I mightily pleased in her company and to find my wife so well pleased with them also. 
After dinner he and I walked to White Hall, not being able to get a coach.  He to the Abbey,
and I to White Hall, but met with nobody to discourse with, having no great mind to be found
idling there, and be asked questions of the fleete, so walked only through to the Parke, and
there, it being mighty hot and I weary, lay down by the canaille, upon the grasse, and slept
awhile, and was thinking of a lampoone which hath run in my head this weeke, to make upon the
late fight at sea, and the miscarriages there; but other businesses put it out of my head.
Having lain there a while, I then to the Abbey and there called Michell, and so walked in great
pain, having new shoes on, as far as Fleete Streete and there got a coach, and so in some little
ease home and there drank a great deale of small beer; and so took up my wife and Betty Michell
and her husband, and away into the fields, to take the ayre, as far as beyond Hackny, and so
back again, in our way drinking a great deale of milke, which I drank to take away, my heartburne,
wherewith I have of late been mightily troubled, but all the way home I did break abundance
of wind behind, which did presage no good but a great deal of cold gotten.  So home and supped
and away went Michell and his wife, of whom I stole two or three salutes, and so to bed in
some pain and in fear of more, which accordingly I met with, for I was in mighty pain all night
long of the winde griping of my belly and making of me shit often and vomit too, which is a
thing not usual with me, but this I impute to the milke that I drank after so much beer, but
the cold, to my washing my feet the night before.

16th.  Lay in great pain in bed all the morning and most of the afternoon, being in much pain,
making little or no water, and indeed having little within to make any with.  And had great
twinges with the wind all the day in my belly with wind.  And a looseness with it, which however
made it not so great as I have heretofore had it.  A wonderful dark sky, and shower of rain
this morning, which at Harwich proved so too with a shower of hail as big as walnuts.  I had
some broth made me to drink, which I love, only to fill up room.  Up in the afternoon, and
passed the day with Balty, who is come from sea for a day or two before the fight, and I perceive
could be willing fairly to be out of the next fight, and I cannot much blame him, he having
no reason by his place to be there; however, would not have him to be absent, manifestly to
avoid being there.  At night grew a little better and took a glyster of sacke, but taking it
by halves it did me not much good, I taking but a little of it.  However, to bed, and had a
pretty good night of it,

17th.  So as to be able to rise to go to the office and there sat, but now and then in pain,
and without making much water, or freely.  However, it grew better and better, so as after
dinner believing the jogging in a coach would do me good, I did take my wife out to the New
Exchange to buy things.  She there while I with Balty went and bought a common riding-cloake
for myself, to save my best.  It cost me but 30s., and will do my turne mighty well.  Thence
home and walked in the garden with Sir W. Pen a while, and saying how the riding in the coach
do me good (though I do not yet much find it), he ordered his to be got ready while I did some
little business at the office, and so abroad he and I after 8 o'clock at night, as far almost
as Bow, and so back again, and so home to supper and to bed.  This day I did bid Balty to agree
with the Dutch paynter, which he once led me to, to see landskipps, for a winter piece of snow,
which indeed is a good piece, and costs me but 40s., which I would not take the money again
for, it being, I think, very good.  After a little supper to bed, being in less pain still,
and had very good rest.

18th.  Up in good case, and so by coach to St. James's after my fellows, and there did our
business, which is mostly every day to complain of want of money, and that only will undo us
in a little time.  After dinner, they being gone, and I mightily pleased with my guests, I
down the river to Greenwich, about business, and thence walked to Woolwich, reading "The Rivall
Ladys" all the way, and find it a most pleasant and fine writ play. At Woolwich saw Mr. Shelden,
it being late, and there eat and drank, being kindly used by him and Bab, and so by water to
Deptford, it being 10 o'clock before I got to Deptford, and dark, and there to Bagwell's, and,
having staid there a while, away home, and after supper to bed.  The Duke of Yorke said this
day that by the letters from the Generals they would sail with the Fleete this day or to-morrow.

19th.  Up in very good health in every respect, only my late fever got by my pain do break
out about my mouth.  So to the office, where all the morning sitting.  Full of wants of money,
and much stores to buy, for to replenish the stores, and no money to do it with, nor anybody
to trust us without it.  So at noon home to dinner, Balty and his wife with us.  By and by
Balty takes his leave of us, he going away just now towards the fleete, where he will pass
through one great engagement more before he be two days older, I believe.  I to the office,
where busy all the afternoon, late, and then home, and, after some pleasant discourse to my
wife, to bed.  After I was in bed I had a letter from Sir W. Coventry that tells me that the
fleete is sailed this morning; God send us good newes of them!

20th.  Up, and finding by a letter late last night that the fleete is gone, and that Sir W.
Pen is ordered to go down to Sheernesse, and finding him ready to go to St. James's this morning,
I was willing to go with him to see how things go,

     [Sir William Penn's instructions from the Duke of York directing him
     to embark on his Majesty's yacht "Henrietta," and to see to the
     manning of such ships has had been left behind by the fleet, dated
     on this day, 20th July, is printed in Penn's "Memorials of Sir W.
     Penn," vol. ii., p. 406.]

and so with him thither (but no discourse with the Duke), but to White Hall, and there the
Duke of York did bid Sir W. Pen to stay to discourse with him and the King about business of
the fleete, which troubled me a little, but it was only out of envy, for which I blame myself,
having no reason to expect to be called to advise in a matter I understand not.  So I away
to Lovett's, there to see how my picture goes on to be varnished (a fine Crucifix),

     [This picture occasioned Pepys trouble long afterwards, having been
     brought as evidence that he was a Papist (see "Life," vol. i., p.
     xxxiii).]

which will be very fine; and here I saw some fine prints, brought from France by Sir Thomas
Crew, who is lately returned.  So home, calling at the stationer's for some paper fit to varnish,
and in my way home met with Lovett, to whom I gave it, and he did present me with a varnished
staffe, very fine and light to walk with.  So home and to dinner, there coming young Mrs. Daniel
and her sister Sarah, and dined with us; and old Mr. Hawly, whose condition pities me, he being
forced to turne under parish-clerke at St. Gyles's, I think at the other end of the towne.
Thence I to the office, where busy all the afternoon, and in the evening with Sir W. Pen, walking
with whom in the garden I am of late mighty great, and it is wisdom to continue myself so,
for he is of all the men of the office at present most manifestly usefull and best thought
of. He and I supped together upon the seat in the garden, and thence, he gone, my wife and
Mercer come and walked and sang late, and then home to bed.

21st. Up and to the office, where all the morning sitting.  At noon walked in the garden with
Commissioner Pett (newly come to towne), who tells me how infinite the disorders are among
the commanders and all officers of the fleete.  He tells me that captains carry, for all the
late orders, what men they please; demand and consume what provisions they please.  He gone
I to dinner, and then to the office, where busy all the afternoon.  At night walked in the
garden with my wife, and so I home to supper and to bed.  Sir W. Pen is gone down to Sheernesse
to-day to see things made ready against the fleete shall come in again, which makes Pett mad,
and calls him dissembling knave, and that himself takes all the pains and is blamed, while
he do nothing but hinder business and takes all the honour of it to himself, and tells me plainly
he will fling, up his commission rather than bear it.

22nd (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, and there till noon mighty busy, setting money matters
and other things of mighty moment to rights to the great content of my mind, I finding that
accounts but a little let go can never be put in order by strangers, for I cannot without much
difficulty do it myself.  Thence walked through the House, where most people mighty hush and,
methinks, melancholy.  I see not a smiling face through the whole Court; and, in my conscience,
they are doubtfull of the conduct again of the Generalls, and I pray God they may not make
their fears reasonable.  Sir Richard Fanshaw is lately dead at Madrid.  Guyland is lately overthrowne
wholly in Barbary by the King of Tafiletta.  Up, and to my chamber doing several things there
of moment, and then comes Sympson, the Joyner; and he and I with great pains contriving presses
to put my books up in: they now growing numerous, and lying one upon another on my chairs,
I lose the use to avoyde the trouble of removing them, when I would open a book.  Thence out
to the Excise office about business, and then homewards met Colvill, who tells me he hath L1000
ready for me upon a tally; which pleases me, and yet I know not now what to do with it, having
already as much money as is fit for me to have in the house, but I will have it.  I did also
meet Alderman Backewell, who tells me of the hard usage he now finds from Mr. Fen, in not getting
him a bill or two paid, now that he can be no more usefull to him; telling me that what by
his being abroad and Shaw's death he hath lost the ball, but that he doubts not to come to
give a kicke at it still, and then he shall be wiser and keepe it while he hath it.  But he
says he hath a good master, the King, who will not suffer him to be undone, as otherwise he
must have been, and I believe him.  So home and to dinner, where I confess, reflecting upon
the ease and plenty that I live in, of money, goods, servants, honour, every thing, I could
not but with hearty thanks to Almighty God ejaculate my thanks to Him while I was at dinner,
to myself.  After dinner to the office and there till five or six o'clock, and then by coach
to St. James's and there with Sir W. Coventry and Sir G. Downing to take the gyre in the Parke.
All full of expectation of the fleete's engagement, but it is not yet.  At least two or three
of them might have been left manned, and sent away with the Gottenburgh ships.  We cannot think
of any business, but lie big with expectation of the issue of this fight, but do conclude that,
this fight being over, we shall be able to see the whole issue of the warr, good or bad.  So
homeward, and walked over the Parke (St. James's) with Sir G. Downing, and at White Hall took
a coach; and there to supper with much pleasure and to bed.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where little business done, our heads being full of expectation
of the fleete's being engaged, but no certain notice of it, only Sheppeard in the Duke's yacht
left them yesterday morning within a league of the Dutch fleete, and making after them, they
standing into the sea.  At noon to dinner, and after dinner with Mercer (as of late my practice
is) a song and so to the office, there to set up again my frames about my Platts, which I have
got to be all gilded, and look very fine, and then to my business, and busy very late, till
midnight, drawing up a representation of the state of my victualling business to the Duke,
I having never appeared to him doing anything yet and therefore I now do it in writing, I now
having the advantage of having had two fleetes dispatched in better condition than ever any
fleetes were yet, I believe; at least, with least complaint, and by this means I shall with
the better confidence get my bills out for my salary.  So home to bed.

25th.  Up betimes to write fair my last night's paper for the Duke, and so along with Sir W.
Batten by hackney coach to St. James's, where the Duke is gone abroad with the King to the
Parke, but anon come back to White Hall, and we, after an houre's waiting, walked thither (I
having desired Sir W. Coventry in his chamber to read over my paper about the victualling,
which he approves of, and I am glad I showed it him first, it makes it the less necessary to
show it the Duke at all, if I find it best to let it alone).  At White Hall we find [the Court]
gone to Chappell, it being St. James's-day.  And by and by, while they are at chappell, and
we waiting chappell being done, come people out of the Parke, telling us that the guns are
heard plain.  Thence, having dined mighty nobly, I away to Mrs. Martin's new lodgings, where
I find her, and was with her close, but, Lord! how big she is already.  She is, at least seems,
in mighty trouble for her husband at sea, when I am sure she cares not for him, and I would
not undeceive her, though I know his ship is one of those that is not gone, but left behind
without men.  Thence to White Hall again to hear news, but found none; so back toward Westminster,
and there met Mrs. Burroughs, whom I had a mind to meet, but being undressed did appear a mighty
ordinary woman.  Thence by water home, and out again by coach to Lovett's to see my Crucifix,
which is not done.  So to White Hall again to have met Sir G. Carteret, but he is gone, abroad,
so back homewards, and seeing Mr. Spong took him up, and he and I to Reeves, the glass maker's,
and did set several glasses and had pretty discourse with him, and so away, and set down Mr.
Spong in London, and so home and with my wife, late, twatling at my Lady Pen's, and so home
to supper and to bed.  I did this afternoon call at my woman that ruled my paper to bespeak
a musique card, and there did kiss Nan.  No news to-night from the fleete how matters go yet.

26th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon dined at home: Mr. Hunt and his
wife, who is very gallant, and newly come from Cambridge, because of the sicknesse, with us.
Very merry at table, and the people I do love mightily, but being in haste to go to White Hall
I rose, and Mr. Hunt with me, and by coach thither, where I left him in the boarded gallery,
and I by appointment to attend the Duke of Yorke at his closett, but being not come, Sir G.
Carteret and I did talke together, and [he] advises me, that, if I could, I would get the papers
of examination touching the business of the last year's prizes, which concern my Lord Sandwich,
out of Warcupp's hands, who being now under disgrace and poor, he believes may be brought easily
to part with them. My Lord Crew, it seems, is fearfull yet that maters may be enquired into.
This I will endeavour to do, though I do not thinke it signifies much. By and by the Duke of
Yorke comes and we had a meeting and, among other things, I did read my declaration of the
proceedings of the Victualling hired this yeare, and desired his Royall Highnesse to give me
the satisfaction of knowing whether his Royall Highnesse were pleased therewith.  He told me
he was, and that it was a good account, and that the business of the Victualling was much in
a better condition than it was the last yeare; which did much joy me, being said in the company
of my fellows, by which I shall be able with confidence to demand my salary and the rest of
the subsurveyors.  Thence away mightily satisfied to Mrs. Pierces, there to find my wife. 
Mrs. Pierce hath lain in of a boy about a month.  The boy is dead this day.  She lies in good
state, and very pretty she is, but methinks do every day grow more and more great, and a little
too much, unless they get more money than I fear they do.  Thence with my wife and Mercer to
my Lord Chancellor's new house, and there carried them up to the leads, where I find my Lord
Chamberlain, Lauderdale, Sir Robert Murray, and others, and do find it the most delightfull
place for prospect that ever was in the world, and even ravishing me, and that is all, in short,
I can say of it.  Thence to Islington to our old house and eat and drank, and so round by Kingsland
home, and there to the office a little and Sir W. Batten's, but no newes at all from the fleete,
and so home to bed.

27th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning busy.  At noon dined at home and then to
the office again, and there walking in the garden with Captain Cocke till 5 o'clock.  No newes
yet of the fleete.  His great bargaine of Hempe with us by his unknown proposition is disliked
by the King, and so is quite off; of which he is glad, by this means being rid of his obligation
to my Lord Bruncker, which he was tired with, and especially his mistresse, Mrs. Williams,
and so will fall into another way about it, wherein he will advise only with myself, which
do not displease me, and will be better for him and the King too.  Much common talke of publique
business, the want of money, the uneasinesse that Parliament will find in raising any, and
the ill condition we shall be in if they do not, and his confidence that the Swede is true
to us, but poor, but would be glad to do us all manner of service in the world. He gone, I
away by water from the Old Swan to White Hall.  The waterman tells me that newes is come that
our ship Resolution is burnt, and that we had sunke four or five of the enemy's ships.  But
upon the whole, he and I walked two or three turns in the Parke under the great trees, and
do doubt that this gallant is come away a little too soon, having lost never a mast nor sayle.
And then we did begin to discourse of the young gentlemen captains, which he was very free
with me in speaking his mind of the unruliness of them; and what a losse the King hath of his
old men, and now of this Hannam, of the Resolution, if he be dead, and that there is but few
old sober men in the fleete, and if these few of the Flags that are so should die, he fears
some other gentlemen captains will get in, and then what a council we shall have, God knows.
The Count de Guiche, who was on board De Ruyter, writing his narrative home in French of the
fight, do lay all the honour that may be upon the English courage above the Dutch, and that
he himself [Sir W. Coventry] was sent down from the King and Duke of Yorke after the fight,
to pray them to spare none that they thought had not done their parts, and that they had removed
but four, whereof Du Tell is one, of whom he would say nothing; but, it seems, the Duke of
Yorke hath been much displeased at his removal, and hath now taken him into his service, which
is a plain affront to the Duke of Albemarle; and two of the others, Sir W. Coventry did speake
very slenderly of their faults.  Only the last, which was old Teddiman, he says, is in fault,
and hath little to excuse himself with; and that, therefore, we should not be forward in condemning
men of want of courage, when the Generalls, who are both men of metal, and hate cowards, and
had the sense of our ill successe upon them (and by the way must either let the world thinke
it was the miscarriage of the Captains or their owne conduct), have thought fit to remove no
more of them, when desired by the King and Duke of Yorke to do it, without respect to any favour
any of them can pretend to in either of them.  At last we concluded that we never can hope
to beat the Dutch with such advantage as now in number and force and a fleete in want of nothing,
and he hath often repeated now and at other times industriously that many of the Captains have:
declared that they want nothing, and again, that they did lie ten days together at the Nore
without demanding of any thing in the world but men, and of them they afterward, when they
went away, the generalls themselves acknowledge that they have permitted several ships to carry
supernumeraries, but that if we do not speede well, we must then play small games and spoile
their trade in small parties.  And so we parted, and I, meeting Creed in the Parke again, did
take him by coach and to Islington, thinking to have met my Lady Pen and wife, but they were
gone, so we eat and drank and away back, setting him down in Cheapside and I home, and there
after a little while making of my tune to "It is decreed," to bed.

28th.  Up, and to the office, where no more newes of the fleete than was yesterday.  Here we
sat and at noon to dinner to the Pope's Head, where my Lord Bruncker and his mistresse dined
and Commissioner Pett, Dr. Charleton, and myself, entertained with a venison pasty by Sir W.
Warren. Here very pretty discourse of Dr. Charleton's, concerning Nature's fashioning every
creature's teeth according to the food she intends them; and that men's, it is plain, was not
for flesh, but for fruit, and that he can at any time tell the food of a beast unknown by the
teeth.  My Lord Bruncker made one or two objections to it that creatures find their food proper
for their teeth rather than that the teeth were fitted for the food, but the Doctor, I think,
did well observe that creatures do naturally and from the first, before they have had experience
to try, do love such a food rather than another, and that all children love fruit, and none
brought to flesh, but against their wills at first.  Thence with my Lord Bruncker to White
Hall, where no news.  So to St. James's to Sir W. Coventry, and there hear only of the Bredah's
being come in and gives the same small account that the other did yesterday, so that we know
not what is done by the body of the fleete at all, but conceive great reason to hope well.
Thence with my Lord to his coach-house, and there put in his six horses into his coach, and
he and I alone to Highgate.  All the way going and coming I learning of him the principles
of Optickes, and what it is that makes an object seem less or bigger and how much distance
do lessen an object, and that it is not the eye at all, or any rule in optiques, that can tell
distance, but it is only an act of reason comparing of one mark with another, which did both
please and inform me mightily.  Being come thither we went to my Lord Lauderdale's house to
speake with him, about getting a man at Leith to joyne with one we employ to buy some prize
goods for the King; we find [him] and his lady and some Scotch people at supper.  Thence back
with my Lord to his house, all the way good discourse, informing of myself about optiques still,
and there left him and by a hackney home, and after writing three or four letters, home to
supper and to bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Up and all the morning in my chamber making up my accounts in my book with
my father and brother and stating them.  Towards noon before sermon was done at church comes
newes by a letter to Sir W. Batten, to my hand, of the late fight, which I sent to his house,
he at church.  But, Lord! with what impatience I staid till sermon was done, to know the issue
of the fight, with a thousand hopes and fears and thoughts about the consequences of either.
At last sermon is done and he come home, and the bells immediately rung soon as the church
was done.  So away home to dinner, where Mr. Spong and Reeves dined with me by invitation.
And after dinner to our business of my microscope to be shown some of the observables of that,
and then down to my office to looke in a darke room with my glasses and tube, and most excellently
things appeared indeed beyond imagination. This was our worke all the afternoon trying the
several glasses and several objects, among others, one of my plates, where the lines appeared
so very plain that it is not possible to thinke how plain it was done.  So home to supper and
to bed.

30th.  Up, and did some business in my chamber, then by and by comes my boy's Lute-Master,
and I did direct him hereafter to begin to teach him to play his part on the Theorbo, which
he will do, and that in a little time I believe.  So to the office, and there with Sir W. Warren,
with whom I have spent no time a good while.  We set right our business of the Lighters, wherein
I thinke I shall get L100. At noon home to dinner and there did practise with Mercer one of
my new tunes that I have got Dr. Childe to set me a base to and it goes prettily.  I asked
him whether he did never desire an account of the number of supernumeraries, as I have done
several ways, without which we shall be in great errour about the victuals; he says he has
done it again and again, and if any mistake should happen they must thanke themselves.  Good
friends in the morning and up to the office, where sitting all the morning, and while at table
we were mightily joyed with newes brought by Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten of the death of
De Ruyter, but when Sir W. Coventry come, he told us there was no such thing, which quite dashed
me again, though, God forgive me!  I was a little sorry in my heart before lest it might give
occasion of too much glory to the Duke of Albemarle. Great bandying this day between Sir W.
Coventry and my Lord Bruncker about Captain Cocke, which I am well pleased with, while I keepe
from any open relyance on either side, but rather on Sir W. Coventry's.  At noon had a haunch
of venison boiled and a very good dinner besides, there dining with me on a sudden invitation
the two mayden sisters, Bateliers, and their elder brother, a pretty man, understanding and
well discoursed, much pleased with his company.  Having dined myself I rose to go to a Committee
of Tangier, and did come thither time enough to meet Povy and Creed and none else.  Then with
Creed and read over with him the narrative of the late [fight], which he makes a very poor
thing of, as it is indeed, and speaks most slightingly of the whole matter.  Thence to Westminster
Hall and walked an hour with Creed talking of the late fight, and observing the ridiculous
management thereof and success of the Duke of Albemarle. Thence parted and to Mrs. Martin's
lodgings, and sat with her a while, and then by water home, all the way reading the Narrative
of the late fight in order, it may be, to the making some marginal notes upon it. At the Old
Swan found my Betty Michell at the doore, where I staid talking with her a pretty while, it
being dusky, and kissed her and so away home and writ my letters, and then home to supper,
where the, brother and Mary Batelier are still and Mercer's two sisters.  They have spent the
time dancing this afternoon, and we were very merry, and then after supper into the garden
and there walked, and then home with them and then back again, my wife and I and the girle,
and sang in the garden and then to bed.  Colville was with me this morning, and to my great
joy I could now have all my money in, that I have in the world.  But the times being open again,
I thinke it is best to keepe some of it abroad. Mighty well, and end this month in content
of mind and body.  The publique matters looking more safe for the present than they did, and
we having a victory over the Dutch just such as I could have wished, and as the kingdom was
fit to bear, enough to give us the name of conquerors, and leave us masters of the sea, but
without any such great matters done as should give the Duke of Albemarle any honour at all,
or give him cause to rise to his former insolence.

