ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CONTENTS

     I  GULO THE INDOMITABLE
    II  BLACKIE AND CO.
   III  UNDER THE YELLOW FLAG
    IV  NINE POINTS OF THE LAW
     V  PHARAOH
    VI  THE CRIPPLE
   VII  "SET A THIEF"----
  VIII  THE WHERE IS IT?
    IX  LAWLESS LITTLE LOVE
     X  THE KING'S SON
    XI  THE HIGHWAYMAN OF THE MARSH
   XII  THE FURTIVE FEUD
  XIII  THE STORM PIRATE
   XIV  WHEN NIGHTS WERE COLD
    XV  FATE AND THE FEARFUL
   XVI  THE EAGLES OF LOCH ROYAL
  XVII  RATEL, V.C.
 XVIII  THE DAY

ILLUSTRATIONS

"Jaws, monstrous and wet, grabbing at him in enraged confusion" . . . Frontispiece

"The owl had lost a foot on the turn

"A shrew-mouse, thirsting for blood, but who got poison instead"

"This one had simply streaked out of the night from nowhere"

"Landed full upon the dumbfounded water-vole--splash!"

"A 'silver tabby' floated among the twigs, looking for him"

"An angry eagle-owl"

"Turning over and over, in one long, sickening dive back to earth"

"That little black-headed fellow doing the stalking act upon that python was great"

"Shooting straight upwards on the top of what appeared to have been a submarine mine in a mild
form"

"He clutched, and tore, and gulped, and gorged"

"All allowed that he was the pluckiest beast on earth"

THE WAY OF THE WILD

I

GULO THE INDOMITABLE

If his father had been a brown bear and his mother a badger, the result in outward appearance
would have been Gulo, or something very much like him.  But not all the crossing in the world
could have accounted for his character; that came straight from the Devil, his master.  Gulo,
however, was not a cross.  He was himself, Gulo, the wolverine, alias glutton, alias carcajou,
alias quick-hatch, alias fjeldfras in the vernacular, or, officially, Gulo luscus.  But, by
whatever name you called him, he did not smell sweet; and his character, too, was of a bad
odor.  A great man once said that he was like a bear cub with a superadded tail; but that great
man cannot have seen his face.  If he had, he would have looked for his double among the fiends
on the top of Notre Dame.  There was, in fact, nothing like him on this earth, only in a very
hot place not on the earth.

He was, in short, a beast with brains that only man, and no beast, ought to be trusted with;
and he had no soul.  God alone knows if love, which softens most creatures, had ever come to
Gulo; his behavior seemed to show that it had not.  Perhaps love was afraid of him.  And, upon
my soul, I don't wonder.

It was not, however, a hot, but a very cold, place in the pine-forest where Gulo stood, and
the unpitying moon cast a dainty tracery through the tasseled roof upon the new and glistening
snow around him--the snow that comes early to those parts--and the north-east wind cut like
several razors.  But Gulo did not seem to care.  Wrapped up in his ragged, long, untidy, uncleanly-looking,
brown-black cloak--just his gray-sided, black fiend's face poking out--he seemed warm enough.
When he lifted one paw to scratch, one saw that the murderous, scraping, long claws of him
were nearly white; and as he set his lips in a devilish grin, his fangs glistened white in
the moonlight, too.

Verily, this was no beast--he would have taped four feet and a quarter from tip to tip, if
you had worn chain-mail and dared to measure him--no beast, I say, to handle with white-kid
ball gloves.  Things were possible from him, one felt, that were not possible of any other
living creature--awful things.

Suddenly he looked up.  The branches above him had stirred uneasily, as if an army were asleep
there.  And an army was--of wood-pigeons. Thousands upon thousands of wood-pigeons were asleep
above his head, come from Heaven knows where, going to--who could tell in the end?

All at once one fell.  Without apparent reason or cause, it fell.  And the wolverine, with
his quick, intelligent eyes, watched it fall, from branch to branch, turning over and over--oh!
so softly--to the ground. When he had poked his way to it--walking flat-footed, like a bear
or a railway porter--it was dead.  Slain in a breath!  Without a flutter, killed!  By what?
By disease--diphtheria.  But not here would the terrible drama be worked out.  This was but
an isolated victim, first of the thousands that would presently succumb to the fell disease
far, far over there, to the westward, hundreds of miles away, in England and Wales, perhaps,
whither they were probably bound.

But the poor starved corpse, choked to death in the end maybe, was of no use to the wolverine.
As he sniffed it he found that out.  The thing was wasted to the bones even.  And turning away
from it--he suddenly "froze" in his tracks where he stood.

One of those little wandering eddies which seem to meander about a forest in an aimless sort
of way, coming from and going now hither, as if the breeze itself were lost among the still
aisles, had touched his wet muzzle; and its touch spelt--"Man!"

If it had been the taint of ten thousand deaths it could not have affected him more.  He became
a beast cast in old, old bronze, and as hard as bronze; and when he moved, it was stiffly,
and all bristly, and on end.

Animals have no counting of time.  In the wild, things happen as swiftly as a flash of light;
or, perhaps, nothing happens at all for a night, or a day, or half a week.  Therefore I do
not know exactly how long that wolverine was encircling that scent, and pinning it down to
a certain spot--himself unseen.  All animals, almost, can do that, but none, not even the lynx
or the wild cat, so well as the wolverine.  He is the one mammal that, in the wild, is a name
only--a name to conjure with.

He found, in the end, that there was no man; but there had been.  He found--showing himself
again now--that a man--a hunter, a trapper, one after fur--had made himself here a cache, a
store under the earth; and--well, the wolverine's great, bear-like claws seemed made for digging.

He dug--and, be sure, if there had been any danger there he would have known it.  He dug like
a North-Country miner, with swiftness and precision, stopping every now and again to sit back
on his haunches, and, with humped shoulders, stare--scowl, I mean--round in his lowering, low-browed
fashion.

Once a bull-elk, nearly a six-footer, but he loomed large as an elephant, came clacking past
between the ranked tree-boles, stopping a moment to straddle a sapling and browse; while the
wolverine, sitting motionless and wide-legged, watched him.  Once a lynx, with its eternal,
set grin, floated by, half-seen, half-guessed, as if a wisp of wood mist had broken loose and
was floating about.  Once a fox, somewhere in the utter silence of the forest depths, barked
a hoarse, sharp, malicious sound; and once, hoarser still and very hollowly, a great horned
owl hooted with disconcerting suddenness.  (The scream of a rabbit followed these two, but
whether fox or owl had been in at that killing the wolverine never knew.)  Twice a wood-hare
turning now to match the whiteness of its surroundings, finicked up one of the still, silent
forest lanes towards him, stopped, faced half-round, sat "frozen" for a fraction, and vanished
as if it were a puff of wind-caught snow.  (And, really, one had no idea till now that the
always apparently lifeless forest could have been so full of life in the dark hours.)

But all these things made no difference to the wolverine, to Gulo, though he "froze" with habitual
care to watch them--for your wild creature rarely takes chances.  Details must never be overlooked
in the wild.  He dug on, and in digging came right to the cache, roofed and anchored all down,
safe beyond any invasion, with tree-trunks. And--and, mark you, not being able to pull tree-trunks
out of the ground, and being too large to squeeze between them, he gnawed through one!  Gnawed
through it, he did, and came down to the bazaar below.

So far, he had been only beast.  Now we see why I said he had more brains than were good for
any animal except man.

He bit through the canvas, or whatever it was that protected the cached articles.  He got his
head inside.  He felt about purposefully, and backed out, dragging a trap with him.  With it
he removed into the inky shadows, and it was never found again.

He returned.  He thrust his head in a second time, got hold of something, and backed out. 
It was another trap, and with it he vanished also; and it, too, was never found.  He returned,
and went, and a third trap went with him.

The fourth investigation revealed an ax.  It he partly buried.  The fifth yielded a bag of
flour, which he tore up and scattered all over the place.  The sixth inroad produced a haunch
of venison, off which he dined.  The seventh showed another haunch, and this he buried somewhere
unseen in the shades.  The eighth overhaul gave up some rope, in which he nearly got himself
entangled, and which he finally carried away, bitten and frayed past use.  The ninth search
rewarded him with tea, which he scattered, and bacon, which he buried.

What he could not drag out, he scattered.  What he failed to remove, he defiled.  And, at last,
when he had made of the place, not an orderly cache, but a third-rate débâcle, he sauntered,
always slouching, always grossly untidy, hump-backed, stooping, low-headed, and droop-tailed,
shabbily unrespectable, out into the night, and the darkness of the night, under the trees.

By the time day dawned he was as if he never had been--a memory, no more.  Heaven knows where
he was!

Gulo appeared quite suddenly and very early, for him, next afternoon, beside some tangled brush
on the edge of a clearing.  He was sitting up, almost bolt-upright, and he was shading his
eyes with his forepaws. A man could not have done more.  And, in fact, he did not look like
an animal at all, but like some diabolically uncouth dwarf of the woods.

A squirrel was telling him, from a branch near by, just what everybody thought of his disgraceful
appearance; and two willow-grouse were clucking at him from some hazel-tops; whilst a raven,
black as coal against the white of the woods, jabbed in gruff and very rude remarks from time
to time.

But Gulo was taking no notice of them.  He was used to attentions of that kind; it was a little
compliment--of hate--they all paid him.  He was looking persistently down the ranked, narrowing
perspective of the buttressed forest glade to where it faded in the blue-gray mist, southward,
as if he expected something to come from there.  Something was coming from there now; and there
had been a faint, uneasy sort of whisper in that direction for some time.  Now it was unmistakable.

A cow-elk, first of the wary ones to move on alarm, came trotting by, her Roman nose held well
out; a red-deer hind, galloping lightly like some gigantic hare, her big ears turned astern;
a wolf, head up, hackles alift, alternately loping and pivoting, to listen and look back, a
wild reindeer, trotting heavily, but far more quickly than he seemed to be--all these passed,
now on one side, now on the other, often only glimpses between the tree-boles, while the wolverine
sat up and shaded his eyes with his paws.  Something was moving those beasts, those haunters
of the forest, and no little thing either.  Something? What?

Down came Gulo in that grim silence which was, except for his domestic arguments, characteristic
of the beast, and trotted to a pool hard by. The pool was spring-fed, and covered, as to every
dead leaf and stone, with fine green moss of incomparable softness.  He drank swiftly and long,
then flung about with a half-insolent, half-aggressive wave of his tail, and set off at a rolling,
clumsy, shuffling shamble.

At ordinary times that deceiving gait would have left nearly everything behind, but this afternoon
it was different.  Gulo had barely shed the shelter of the dotted thickets before he realized,
and one saw, the fact.  He broke his trot.  He began to plunge.  Nevertheless, he got along.
There was pace, of a sort.  Certainly there was much effort. He would have outdistanced you
or me easily in no time, but it was not you or I that came, and who could tell how fast that
something might travel?

The trouble was the snow--that was the rub, and a very big and serious rub, too, for him. 
Now, if the snow had been a little less it would not have mattered--a little more, and he could
have run easily along the hard crust of it; but it was as it was, only about two feet, just
enough to retard him, and no more.  And it is then, when the snow is like that, just above
a couple of feet deep, that man can overtake friend wolverine--if he knows the way.  Most men
don't.  On that he trusted.  At any other time--but this was not any other time.

Sound carries a long way in those still parts, and as he hurried Gulo heard, far, far behind
in the forest, the faint, distant whir of a cock-capercailzie--the feathered giant of the woods--rising.
It was only a whisper, almost indistinguishable to our ears, but enough, quite enough, for
him.  Taken in conjunction with the mysterious shifting of the elk and the red deer and the
reindeer and the wolf, it was more than enough.  He increased his pace, and for the first time
fear shone in his eyes--it was for the first time, too, in his life, I think.

A lynx passed him, bounding along on enormous, furry legs.  It looked all legs, and as it turned
its grinning countenance to look at him he cursed it fluently, with a sudden savage growl,
envious, perhaps, of its long, springing hindlegs.  Something, too--the same something--must
have moved the lynx, and Gulo shifted the faster for the knowledge.

Half-an-hour passed, an hour slid by, and all the time Gulo kicked the miles behind him, with
that dogged persistency that was part of his character.  Nothing had passed him for quite a
while, and he was all alone in the utterly still, silent forest and the snow, pad-pad-padding
along like a moving, squat machine rather than a beast.

At last he stopped, and, spinning round, sat up.  A gray-blue haze, like the color on a wood-pigeon,
was creeping over everything, except in the west, where the sky held a faint, luminous, pinky
tinge that foretold frost.  It was very cold, and the snow, which had never quite left off,
was falling now only in single, big, wandering flakes.  The silence was almost terrifying.

Then, as Gulo sat up, from far away, but not quite so far away, his rounded ears, almost buried
in fur, caught faintly--very, very faintly--a sound that brought him down on all fours, and
sent him away again at a gallop with a strange new light burning in his little, wide-set eyes.
It was the unmistakable sound of a horse sneezing--once.  Gulo did not wait to hear if it sneezed
twice.  He was gone in an instant.  Man, it seemed, had not been long in answering that challenge
of the cache escapade.

After that there was no such thing as time at all, only an everlasting succession of iron-hard
tree-trunks sliding by, and shadows--they ran when they saw him, some of them, or gathered
to stare with eyes that glinted--dancing past.  The moon came and hung itself up in the heavens,
mocking him with a pitiless, stark glare.  (He would have given his right forepaw for a black
night and a blinding snowstorm.) It almost seemed as if they were all laughing at him, Gulo
the dreaded, the hated hater, because it was his turn at last, who had so freely dealt in it,
to know fear.

Hours passed certainly, hours upon hours, and still, his breath coming quickly and less easily
now with every mile, Gulo stuck to the job of putting the landscape behind him with that grim
pertinacity of his that was almost fine.

At last the trees stopped abruptly, and he was heading, straighter than crows fly, across a
plain.  The plain undulated a little, like a sea, a dead sea, of spotless white, with nothing
alive upon it--only his hunched, slouching, untidy, squat form and his shadow, "pacing" him.
At the top of the highest undulation he stopped, and glowered back along the trail.

Ahead, the forest, starting again, showed as a black band a quarter of an inch high.  Behind,
the forest he had already left lay dwarfed in a ruled, serried line.  But that was not all.
Something was moving out upon the spotless plain of snow, something which appeared to be no
more than crawling, ant-like, but was really traveling very fast.  It looked like a smudged
dot, nothing more; but it was a horse, really, galloping hard, with a light sleigh, and a man
in it, behind.  The horse had no bells, and it was not a reindeer as usual.  Pace was wanted
here, and the snow was not deep enough to impede the horse, who possessed the required speed
under such conditions.

The horse had been trotting along the trail, till it came to the place where Gulo had looked
back and heard the sneeze, and knew he was being followed.  Then it had started to gallop,
and, with ears back and teeth showing, had never ceased to gallop.  This, apparently, was not
the first wolverine that horse had trailed.  It seemed to have a personal grudge against the
whole fell clan of wolverine, and to be bent upon trampling Gulo to death.

Gulo watched it for about one quarter of a second.  Then he quitted, and the speed he had put
up previously was nothing to that which he showed now--uselessly.  And, far behind him, the
man in the sleigh drew out his rifle from under the fur rugs.  He judged that the time had
about come.  The end was very near.

But he judged wrong.  Gulo made the wood at length.  With eyes of dull red, and breath coming
in short, rending sobs, he got in among the trees.  He did it, though the feat seemed impossible,
for the trees had been so very far away.  Got in among the trees--yes, but dead-beat, and--to
what end?  To be "treed" ignominiously and calmly shot down, picked off like a squirrel on
a larch-pole.  That was all.  And that was the orthodox end, the end the man took for granted.

In a few minutes the horse was in the forest too, was close behind Gulo.  In spite of the muffling
effect of snow, his expectant ears could hear the quadruple thud of the galloping hoofs, and--

Hup!  Whuff!  Biff-biff!  Grrrrrr!  Grr-ur-ururrh!  Grrrr-urr!

It had all happened quick as a flash of light.  A huge, furry, reeking mass rising right in
the wolverine's path from behind a tree, towering over him, almost mountainous to his eyes,
like the very shape of doom! Himself hurling sideways, and rolling over and over, snarling,
to prevent the crowning disaster of collision with this terrible portent! A blow, two blows,
with enormous paws whose claws gleamed like skewers, whistling half-an-inch above his ducked
head!  Jaws, monstrous and wet, grabbing at him in enraged confusion, and rumblings deep down
in the inside of the thing that ran cold lightning-sparks all up his spine. That was what Gulo
saw and heard.

The wolverine rolled, clawing and biting, three times, and without a pause sprang to his feet
again, and leapt madly clear, stumbled on a hidden tree-root, rolled over again twice, and
up, and hurled, literally with his last gasp and effort, headlong through the air behind a
tree-bole, where he remained all asprawl and motionless, except for his heaving sides, too
utterly done at last for any terror to move him.

There followed instantly a horse's wild snort; another; a shout; the crack of a rifle cutting
the silence as a knife cuts a taut string; another crack; an awful, hoarse growl; the furious
thudding of horse's hoofs stampeding and growing fainter and fainter; and an appalling series
of receding, short, coughing, terrifying, grunting roars.  Then silence and utter stillness
only, and the cold, calm moon staring down over all.

Gulo picked himself up after a bit, and slouched round the tree to investigate.  He found tracks
there, and blood; and the tracks were the biggest footprints of a bear--a brown bear--that
he had ever come across, and I suppose that he must have sniffed at a few in his time.

Presumably the man had fired at the bear when the startled horse shied. Presumably, too, the
bear was hit.  He had gone straight away in the track of horse and man, anyway, and--he had
saved the wolverine's life, after, with paw and teeth, doing his best to end it.  Possibly
he had been disturbed in the process of making his winter home.

Gulo lay low, or hunted very furtively, after that for some time, until it was little less
dark in the east than it had been, and the gaunt tree-trunks were standing out a fraction from
the general gloom.  The moon had apparently nearly burnt itself out.  Still, it yet appeared
to be night.

Gulo was a long way out of his own hunting-district, and guessed that it was about time for
him to get himself out of sight.  He had a passionate hatred of the day, by the way, even beyond
most night hunters.

On the way he smelt out and dug up a grouse beneath the snow.

Dawn found him, or, rather, failed to find him, hidden under a tangled mass that was part windfall,
part brush-wood, and part snow.  The place had belonged to a fox the night before, and that
red worthy returned soon after dawn.  He thrust an inquiring sharp muzzle inside, took one
sniff, and, with every hair alift, retired in haste, without waiting to hear the villainous
growl that followed him.  The smell was enough for him--a most calamitous stink.

It snowed all that day, and things grew quieter and quieter, except in the tree-tops, where
the wind spoke viciously between its teeth.  When Gulo came out that evening, he had to dig
part of the way, and he viewed a still and silent, white world, under a sky like the lid of
a lead box, very low down.  He stood higher against the tree-trunks than he had done the night
before, and, though he did not know it, was safe from any horse, for the snow was quite deep.
The cold was awful, but it did not seem to trouble him, as he slouched slowly southward.

There appeared to be nothing alive at all throughout this white land, but you must never trust
to that in the wild.  Things there are very rarely what they seem.  For instance, Gulo came
into a clearing, dim under the night sky, though it would never be dark that night.  To the
ear and the eye that clearing was as empty as a swept room.  To Gulo's nose it was not, and
he was just about to crouch and execute a stalk, when half the snow seemed to get up and run
away.  The runners were wood-hares.  They had "frozen" stiff on the alarm from their sentries.
But it was not Gulo who had caused them to depart.  Him, behind a tree, they had not spotted.
Something remained--something that moved.  And Gulo saw it when it moved--not before.  It was
an ermine, a stoat in winter dress, white as driven snow.  Then it caught sight of Gulo, or,
more likely, the gleam of his eyes, and departed also.

Gulo slouched on, head down, back humped, tail low, a most dejected-looking, out-at-heels tramp
of the wilderness.

Once he came upon a wild cat laying scientific siege to a party of grouse.  The grouse were
nowhere to be seen; nor was the wild cat, after Gulo announced his intention to break his neutrality.
Gulo knew where the grouse were.  He dug down into the snow, and came upon a tunnel.  He dug
farther, and came upon other tunnels, round and clean, in the snow.  All the tunnels smelt
of grouse, but devil a grouse could he find.  He had come a bit early.  It was as yet barely
night, and he should have waited till later, when they would be more asleep. However, he dug
on along the tunnels, driving the grouse before him. And then a strange thing happened.  About
three yards ahead of him the snow burst--burst, I say, like a six-inch shell, upwards.  There
was a terrific commotion, a wild, whirring, whirling smother, a cloud of white, and away went
five birds, upon heavily beating wings, into the gathering gloom.  Gulo went away, too, growling
deep down inside of, and to, himself.

He was hungry, was Gulo.  Indeed, there did not seem to be many times when he was not hungry.
Also, being angry--not even a wild animal likes failure--he was seeking a sacrifice; but he
had crossed the plain, which the night before had been as a nightmare desert to him, and the
moon was up before his chance came.

He crossed the trail of the reindeer.  He did not know anything about those reindeer, mark
you, whether they were wild or semi-tame; and I do not know, though he may have done, how old
the trail was.  It was sufficient for him that they were reindeer, and that they had traveled
in the general direction that he wanted to go.  For the rest--he had the patience, perhaps
more than the patience, of a cat, the determination of a bulldog, and the nose of a bloodhound.
He trailed those reindeer the better part of that night, and most of the time it snowed, and
part of the time it snowed hard.

By the time a pale, frozen dawn crept weakly over the forest tree-tops Gulo must have been
well up on the trail of that herd, and he had certainly traveled an astonishing way.  He had
dug up one lemming--a sort of square-ended relation of the rat, with an abbreviated tail--and
pounced upon one pigmy owl, scarce as large as a thrush, which he did not seem to relish much--perhaps
owl is an acquired taste--before he turned a wild cat out of its lair--to the accompaniment
of a whole young riot of spitting and swearing--and curled up for the day.

He was hungry when he went to sleep.  Also, it was snowing then.  When he woke up it was almost
dark, and snowing worse than ever.  If it could have been colder, it was.

While he cleaned himself Gulo took stock of the outside prospect, so far as the white curtain
allowed to sight, and by scent a good deal that it did not.  This without appearing outside
the den, you understand.  And if there had been any enemy in hiding, waiting for him outside,
he would have discovered the fact then.  He had many enemies, and no friends, had Gulo.  All
that he received from all whom he met was hate, but he gave back more than he got.  In the
lucid terms of the vernacular, he "was a hard un, if you like."

Nothing and nobody saw the wolverine leave that lair that was not his. He must have chosen
one blinding squall of snow for the purpose, and was half a mile away, still on the track of
the reindeer, before he showed himself--shuffling along as usual, a ragged, hard-bitten ruffian.
And three hours later he came up with his prey.

Gulo knew it, but nobody else could have done.  There were just the straight trees ahead, and
all around the eternal white, frozen silence, and the snow falling softly over everything;
but Gulo was as certain that there was the herd close ahead as he was that he was ravenous.
And thereafter Gulo got to work, the peculiar work, a special devilish genius for which appears
to be given to the wolverine.

He ceased to exist.  At least, nothing of him was seen, not a tail, not an eye-gleam.  Yet
during the next two hours he learnt everything, private and public, there was to be learnt.
Also, he had been over the surroundings almost to a yard.  Nothing could have escaped him.
No detail of risk and danger, of the chance of being seen even, had been overlooked; for he
was a master at his craft, the greatest master in the wild, perhaps.  The wolf?  My dear sirs,
the wolf was an innocent suckling cub beside Gulo, look you, and his brain and his cunning
were not the brain and the cunning of a beast at all, but of a devil.

When, after a very long time, he reappeared upon his original track, it was as a dark blotch,
indistinguishable from a dozen other dark blots of moon-shadow, creeping forward belly-flat
in the snow.  This belly-creep, hugging always every available inch of cover, he kept up till
he came to a big clearing, and--there were the reindeer.  At least, there was one reindeer,
a doe, standing with her back towards him--a quite young doe.  The rest were half-hidden in
the snow, which they had trampled into a maze of paths in and out about the clearing, which
was, in fact, what is called their "yard."

A minute of tense silence followed after Gulo had got as close as he could without being seen.
Then he rushed.

The reindeer swung half-round, gave one snort, and a great bound.  But Gulo had covered half
the intervening space before she knew, and when she bounded it was with him hanging on to her.

Followed instantly a wild upspringing of snorting beasts, and a mad, senseless stampede of
floundering deer all round and about the clearing--a fearful mix-up, somewhere in the midst
of which, half-hidden by flying, finely powdered snow, Gulo did his prey horribly to death.

There was something ghastly about this murder, for the deer was so big, and Gulo comparatively
small.  The fearful work of his jaws and his immense strength seemed wrong somehow, and out
of all proportion to his size.  This remarkable power of his jaws had that sinister disproportion
only paralleled by the power of the jaws of a hyena; indeed, his teeth very much resembled
a hyena's teeth.

With the deer rushing all around him, Gulo fed, ravenously and horribly, but not for long.
A new light smoldered in his eyes now as he lifted his carmine snout, and one saw that, for
the moment, the beast was mad, crazed with the lust of killing, seeing red, and blinded by blood.

Then the massacre began.  It was not a hunt, because each deer, thinking only of itself, feared
to break from the trodden mazy path of the "yard," and risk the slow, helpless, plunging progress
necessary in the deep snow.  Wherefore panic took them all over again, and they dashed, often
colliding, generally hindering each other, hither and thither, up and down the paths of the
"yard" with the hopeless, helpless, senseless, blind abandon of sheep.  The result was a shambles.

This part we skip.  Probably--nay, certainly--Nature knows best, and is quite well aware what
she is up to, and it is perhaps not meant that we should put her in the limelight in her grisly
moods.  Suffice it to say that Gulo seemed to stop at length, simply because even he could
not "see red" forever, and with exhaustion returned sense, and with sense--in his case--in-born
caution.  He removed, leaving a certain number of reindeer bleeding upon the ground.  Some
of them were dead.

In an hour dawn would be conspiring to show him up before the world, and he was not a beast
sweet to look upon at that moment--indeed, at any moment, but less so now.

Now, it is surprising how far a wolverine can shift his clumsy-looking body over snow in an
hour, especially if he has reasons.  This one had good reasons, and he was no fool.  He knew
quite well the kind of little hell he had made for himself behind there, and he did not stay
to let the snow cover him.  He traveled as if he were a machine and knew no fatigue; and the
end of that journey was a hole in a hollow among rocks.

Dawn was throwing a wan light upon all things when he thrust his short, sharp muzzle inside
that hole, to be met by a positively hair-raising volley of rasping, vicious growls.

He promptly ripped out a string of ferocious, dry, harsh growls in return, and for half-a-minute
the air became full of growls, horrible and blood-curdling, each answering each.

Then he lurched in over the threshold, and coolly dodged a thick paw, with tearing white claws,
that whipped at him with a round-arm stroke out of the pitch-darkness.  The stroke was repeated,
scraping, but in nowise hurting his matted coat, as he rose on his hindlegs and threw himself
upon the striker.

Followed a hectic thirty seconds of simply diabolical noises, while the two rolled upon the
ground, grappling fiendishly in the darkness.  Then they parted, got up, growled one final
roll of fury at each other, fang to fang, and, curling up, went to sleep.  But it was nothing,
only the quite usual greeting between Gulo and his wife.  They were a sweet couple.

There appeared to be no movement, or any least sign of awakening, on the part of either of
the couple between that moment and sometime in the afternoon, when, so far as one could see,
Gulo suddenly rolled straight from deep sleep out on to the snow, and away without a sound,
at his indescribable shamble and at top speed.

Mrs. Gulo executed precisely the same amazing maneuver, and at exactly the same moment, as
far as could be seen, on the other side, and shuffled off into the forest.  They gave no explanation
for so doing. They said never a word--nothing.  One moment they were curled up, asleep; the
next they had gone, scampered, apparently into the land of the spirits, and were no more. 
Nor did there seem to be any reason for this extraordinary conduct except--except----  Well,
it is true that a willow-grouse, white as the snowy branch he sat upon, did start clucking
somewhere in the dim tree regiments, a snipe did come whistling sadly over the tree-tops, and
a raven, jet against the white, did flap up, barking sharply, above the pointed pine-tops;
but that was nothing--to us.  To the wolverines it was everything, a whole wireless message
in the universal code of the wild, and they had read it in their sleep.  Through their slumbers
it had spelt into their brains, and instantly snapped into action that wonderful, faultless
machinery that moved them to speed as if automatically.

Then the chase began, grim, steady, relentless, dogged--the chase of death, the battle of endurance.

A pause followed after the vanishing of the hated wolverines.  A crow lifted on rounded vans,
marking their departure, and it was seen.  A blackcock launched from a high tree with a whir
and a bluster like an aeroplane, showing their course, and it was noted.  An eagle climbed
heavily and ponderously over the low curtain of the snow mist, pointing their way, and it was
followed.  All the wild, all the world, seemed to be against the wolverines.  The brigands
were afoot by day.  The scouts were marking their trail.

Then a lynx, moving with great bounds on his huge swathed paws, shot past between the iron-hard
tree-boles; a fox followed, scudding like the wind on the frozen crest; a hare, white as a
waste wraith, flashed by, swift as a racing white cloud-shadow; a goshawk screamed, and drew
a straight streaking line across a glade.  And then came the men, side by side, deadly dumb,
with set faces, the pale sun glinting coldly cruel upon the snaky, lean barrels of their slung
rifles, moving with steady, fleet, giant strides on their immense spidery ski that were eleven
feet long, which whispered ghostily among the silent aisles of Nature's cathedral of a thousand
columns.  The Brothers were on the death-trail of Gulo at last; the terrible, dreaded Brothers,
who could overtake a full-grown wolf in under thirty minutes on ski, and whose single bullet
spelt certain death.  Now for it; now for the fight.  Now for the great test of the "star"
wild outlaw against the "star" human hunters--at last.  The reindeer were to be avenged.

Then Time took the bit of silence between his teeth and seconds became hours, and minutes generations.

No sound made the wolverines as they rolled along in Indian file, except for the soft whisper
of the snow underfoot.

No noise encompassed the Brothers as they sped swiftly side by side over the glittering white
carpet, save for the slither of the snow under their weight.

All the wild seemed to be standing still, holding its breath, looking on, spell-bound; and
save for the occasional crash of a collapsing snow-laden branch, sounding magnified as in a
cave, all the forest about there was as still as death.

Half-an-hour passed, and Gulo flung his head around, glancing over his shoulder a little uneasily,
but with never a trace of fear in his bloodshot eyes.  Then he grunted, and the two fell apart
silently and instantly, gradually getting farther and farther from each other on a diverging
course, till his wife faded out among the trees.  But never for an instant did either of them
check that tireless, deceptive, clumsy, rolling slouch, that slid the trees behind, as telegraph-poles
slide behind the express carriage window.

Half-an-hour passed, and one of the Brothers, peering up and along the trail a little anxiously,
saw the forking of the line ahead.  Then he grunted, and the two promptly separated without
a word, gradually increasing the distance between them on the widening fork till they were
lost to each other among the marshaled trunks.  But never for an instant did they relax that
swift, ghostly glide on the wonderful ski, that slid the snow underfoot as a racing motor spins
over the ruts.

An hour passed.  Sweat was breaking out in beads upon the faces of the Brothers, now miles
apart, but both going in the same general direction over the endless wastes of snow, and upon
their faces was beginning to creep the look of that pain that strong men unbeaten feel who
see a beating in sight; but never for a moment did they slacken their swift, mysterious glide.

An hour passed.  Foam began to fleck the evilly up-lifted lips glistening back to the glistening
fangs of the wolverines, now miles apart, but still heading in the same general line, and upon
their faces began to set a look of fiends under torture; but never for a moment did they check
their indescribable shuffling slouch.

After that all was a nightmare, blurred and horrible, in which endless processions of trees
passed dimly, interspersed with aching blanks of dazzling white that blinded the starting eyes,
and man and beast stumbled more than once as they sobbed along, forcing each leg forward by
sheer will alone.

At last, on the summit of a hog-backed, bristling ridge, Gulo stopped and looked back, scowling
and peering under his low brows.  Beneath him, far away, the valley lay like a white tablecloth,
all dotted with green pawns, and the pawns were trees.  But he was not looking for them.  His
keen eyes were searching for movement, and he saw it after a bit, a dot that crept, and crept,
and crept, and--stopped!

Gulo sat up, shading his eyes against the watery sun with his forepaws, watching as perhaps
he had never watched in his life before.

For a long, long while, it seemed to him, that dot remained there motionless, far, far away
down in the valley, and then at length, slowly, so slowly that at first the movement was not
perceptible, it turned about and began to creep away--creep, creep, creep away by the trail
it had come.

Gulo watched it till it was out of sight, fading round a bend of the hills into a dark, dotted
blur that was woods.  Then he dropped on all fours, and breathed one great, big, long, deep
breath.  That dot was the one of the Brothers that had been hunting him.

And almost at the same moment, five miles away, his wife had just succeeded in swimming a swift
and ice-choked river.  She was standing on the bank, watching another dot emerge into the lone
landscape, and that dot was the other one of the Brothers.

They had failed to avenge the reindeer, and the wolverines were safe. Safe?  Bah!  Wild creatures
are never safe.  Nature knows better than that, since by safety comes degeneration.

There was a warning--an instant's rustling hissing in the air above--less than an instant's.
But that was all, and for the first time in his life--perhaps because he was tired, fagged--Gulo
failed to take it.  And you must never fail to take a warning if you are a wild creature, you
know!  There are no excuses in Nature.

Retribution was swift.  Gulo yelled aloud--and he was a dumb beast, too, as a rule, but I guess
the pain was excruciating--as a hooked stiletto, it appeared, stabbed through fur, through
skin, deep down through flesh, right into his back, clutching, gripping vise-like. Another
stiletto, hooked, too, worse than the first one, beat at his skull, tore at his scalp, madly
tried to rip out his eyes.  Vast overshadowing pinions--as if they were the wings of Azrael--hammered
in his face, smothering him, beating him down.

Ah, but I have seen some fights, yet never such a fight as that; and never again do I want
to see such a fight as the one between Gulo and the golden eagle that made a mistake in his
pride of power.

All the awful, cruel, diabolical, clever, devilish, and yet almost human fury that was in that
old brute of a Gulo flamed out in him at that moment, and he fought as they fight who go down
to hell.  It was frightful.  It was terrifying.  Heaven alone knows what the eagle thought
he had got his claws into.  It was like taking hold of a flash of forked lightning by the point.
It was--great!

Still, flight is flight, and lifting-power is lifting-power.  Gulo, even Gulo, could not get
over that.  He could not stop those vast vans from flapping; and as they flapped they rose,
the eagle rose, he--though it was like the skinning of his back alive--rose too, wriggling
ignominiously, raging, foaming, snapping, kicking, but--he rose.

Slowly, very slowly, the great bird lifted his terrible prey up and up--ten, twenty, thirty,
forty feet, but no higher.  That was the limit of his lift, the utmost of his strength; and
at that height parallel with the ridge, he began to carry the wolverine along, the wolverine
that was going mad with rage in his grasp.

It was a mistake, of course--a mistake for the wolverine to be out on the open ridge in stark
daylight; another mistake for the eagle, presuming on his fine, lustful pride of strength,
to attack him.

And then suddenly Gulo got his chance.  It hit him bang in the face, nearly blinding him as
it passed--the tree-top.  Like lightning Gulo's jaws clashed shut upon it, his claws gripped,
and--he thought his back was going to come off whole.  But he stuck it.  He was not called
Gulo the Indomitable for nothing.  And the eagle stopped too.  He had to, for he would not
let go; nor would Gulo.

An awful struggle followed, in the middle of which the pine-top broke, gave way, and, before
either seemed to know quite what was happening, down they both came, crashing from branch to
branch, to earth.

The fall broke the king of the birds' hold, but not the fighting fury of the most hated of
all the beasts.  He rose up, half-blind, almost senseless, but mad with rage beyond any conception
of fury, did old Gulo, and he hurled himself upon that eagle.

What happened then no man can say.  There was just one furious mix-up of whirling, powdered
snow, that hung in the air like a mist, out of which a great pinion, a clawing paw, a snapping
beak, a flash of fangs, a skinny leg and clutching, talons, a circling bushy tail appeared
and vanished in flashes, to the accompaniment of stupendous flappings and abominably wicked growls.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

That night the lone wolf, scouting along the ridge-top, stopped to sniff intelligently at the
scattered, torn eagle's feathers lying about in the trampled snow, at the blood, at the one
skinny, mailed, mightily taloned claw still clutching brown-black, rusty fur and red skin;
at the unmistakable flat-footed trail of Gulo, the wolverine, leading away to the frowning,
threatening blackness of the woods.  He could understand it all, that wolf.  Indeed, it was
written there quite plainly for such as could read.  He read, and he passed on.  He did not
follow Gulo's bloody trail.  No--oh, dear, no!  Probably, quite probably, he had met Gulo the
Indomitable before, and--was not that enough?

II

BLACKIE AND CO.

Blackie flung himself into the fight like a fiery fiend cut from coal. He did not know what
the riot was about--and cared less.  He only knew that the neutrality of his kingdom was broken.
Some one was fighting over his borders; and when fighting once begins, you never know where
it may end!  (This is an axiom.)  Therefore he set himself to stop it at once, lest worse should
befall.

He found two thrushes apparently in the worst stage of d.t.'s.  One was on his back; the other
was on the other's chest.  Both were in a laurel-bush, half-way up, and apparently they kept
there, and did not fall, through a special dispensation of Providence.  Both fought like ten
devils, and both sang.  That was the stupefying part, the song. It was choked, one owns; it
was inarticulate, half-strangled with rage, but still it was song.

A cock-chaffinch and a hen-chaffinch were perched on two twigs higher up, and were peering
down at the grappling maniacs.  Also two blue titmice had just arrived to see what was up,
and a sparrow and one great tit were hurrying to the spot--all on Blackie's "beat," on Blackie's
very own hunting-ground.  Apparently a trouble of that kind concerned everybody, or everybody
thought it did.

Blackie arrived upon the back of the upper and, presumably, winning thrush with a bang that
removed that worthy to the ground quite quickly, and in a heap.  The second thrush fetched
up on a lower branch, and by the time the first had ceased to see stars he had apparently regained
his sanity.  He beheld Blackie above him, and fled. Perhaps he had met Blackie, professionally,
before, I don't know.  He fled, anyway, and Blackie helped him to flee faster than he bargained
for.

By the time Blackie had got back, the first thrush was sitting on a branch in a dazed and silly
condition, like a fowl that has been waked up in the night.  Blackie presented him with a dig
gratis from his orange dagger, and he nearly fell in fluttering to another branch.  And Blackie
flew away, chuckling.  He knew that, so far as that thrush was concerned, there would be no
desire to see any more fighting for some time.

But, all the same, Blackie was not pleased.  He was worked off his feet providing rations for
three ugly youngsters in a magnificently designed and exquisitely worked and interwoven edifice,
interlined with rigid cement of mud, which we, in an off-hand manner, simply dismiss as "A
nest."  The young were his children; they might have been white-feathered angels with golden
wings, by the value he put on them. The thrush episode was only a portent, and not the first.
He had no trouble with the other feathered people he tolerated on his beat.

Blackie went straight to the lawn.  (Jet and orange against deep green was the picture.)

Now, if you and I had searched that dry lawn with magnifying-glasses, in the heat of the sun,
there and then, we should not have found a single worm, not the hint or the ghost of one; yet
that bird took three long, low hops, made some quick motion with his beak--I swear it never
seemed to touch the ground, even, let alone dig---executed a kind of jump in the air--some
say he used his legs in the air--and there he was with a great, big, writhing horror of a worm
as big as a snake (some snakes).

Thrushes bang their worms about to make them see sense and give in; they do it many times.
Blackie banged his giant only a little once or twice, and then not savagely, like a thrush.
Also, again, he may or may not have used his feet.  Moreover, he gave up two intervals to surveying
the world against any likely or unlikely stalking death.  Yet that worm shut up meekly in most
unworm-like fashion, and Blackie cut it up into pieces.  The whole operation took nicely under
sixty seconds.

Blackie gave no immediate explanation why he had reduced his worm to sections.  It did not
seem usual.  Instead, he eyed the hedge, eyed the sky, eyed the surroundings.  Nothing seemed
immediately threatening, and he hopped straight away about three yards, where instantly, he
conjured another and a smaller worm out of nowhere.  With this unfortunate horror he hopped
back to the unnice scene of the first worm's decease, and carved that second worm up in like
manner.  Then he peeked up all the sections of both worms, packing them into his beak somehow,
and flew off.  And the robin who was watching him didn't even trouble to fly down to the spot
and see if he had left a joint behind. He knew his blackbird, it seemed.

Blackie flew away to his nest, but not to a nest in a hedge.  To dwell in a hedge was a rule
of his clan, but the devil a rule did he obey. Nests in hedges for other blackbirds, perhaps.
He, or his wife, had different notions.  Wherefore flew he away out into the grass field behind
the garden.  Men had been making excavations there, for what mad man-purpose troubled him not--digging
a drain or something.  No matter.

Into the excavation he slipped---very, very secretly, so that nobody could have seen him go
there--and down to the far end, where, twelve feet below the surface, on a ledge of wood, where
the sides were shored with timber, his mate had her nest.  Here he delivered over his carved
joints to the three ugly creatures which he knew as his children and thought the world of,
and appeared next flying low and quickly back to the garden.  That is to say, he had contrived
to slip from the nest so secretly that that was the first time he showed.

A sparrow-hawk, worried with a family of her own, took occasion to chase him as he flew, and
he arrived in among the young lime-trees that backed the garden, switchbacking--that was one
of his tricks of escape, made possible by a long tail--and yelling fit to raise the world.
The sparrow-hawk's skinny yellow claw, thrust forward, was clutching thin air an inch behind
his central tail-feathers, but that was all she got of him--just thin air.  There was no crash
as he hurled into the green maze; but she, failing to swerve exactly in time, made a mighty
crash, and retired somewhat dazed, thankful that she retained two whole wings to fly with.
There is no room for big-winged sparrow-hawks in close cover, anyway, and Blackie, who was
born to the leafy green ways, knew that.

Blackie's yells had called up, as if by magic, a motley crowd of chaffinches, hedge-sparrows,
wrens, robins, &c., from nowhere at all, and they could be seen whirling in skirmishing order--not
too close--about the retreating foe.  Blackie himself needed no more sparrow-hawk for a bit,
and preferred to sit and look on.  If the little fools chose to risk their lives in the excitement
of mobbing, let them.  His business was too urgent.

Twenty lightning glances around seemed to show that no death was on the lurk near by.  Also,
a quick inspection of other birds' actions--he trusted to them a good deal--appeared to confirm
this.

Then he flew down to the lawn, and almost immediately had a worm by the tail.  Worms object
to being so treated, and this one protested vigorously.  Also, when pulled, they may come in
halves.  So Blackie did not pull too much.  He jumped up, and, while he was in the air, scraped
the worm up with his left foot, or it may have been both feet. The whole thing was done in
the snap of a finger, however, almost too quickly to be seen.

The worm, once up, was a dead one.  Blackie seemed to kill it so quickly as almost to hide
the method used.  In a few seconds more it was a carved worm in three or four pieces--an unnice
sight, but far more amenable to reason that way.

Blackie was in rather long grass, and nerve-rackingly helpless, by the same token.  He could
not see anything that was coming.  Wherefore every few seconds he had to stand erect and peer
over the grass-tops. It made no difference to the worm, however; it was carved just the same.

Blackie now hopped farther on in search of more worms, but found a big piece of bread instead.
It was really the hen-chaffinch who found the bread, and he who commandeered it from her. 
Now he disclosed one fact, and that was that bread would do for his children as well as worms.
Anyhow, he stuffed his beak about half up with bread, returned for the pieces of worm, collected
these, and retired up into the black cover of a fir-tree.

No doubt he was expected to go right home with that load, then and there.  Even a cock-blackbird
with young, however, must feed, and, if one judged by the excess amount of energy--if that
were possible--used up, must feed more than usual.  That seemed to be why he hid his whole
load in the crook of a big bough, and, returning to the lawn, ate bread--he could wait to catch
no worms for his own use, it appeared--as fast as he could.  Three false alarms sent him precipitantly
into his tree upon this occasion, and one real alarm--a passing boy--caused a fourth retreat.

These operations were not performed in a moment, and by the time he got back to his nest--mind,
he had to contrive to approach it so that he was seen by nobody, and his was a conspicuous
livery, too--his children appeared to be in the last stages of exhaustion.  That, however,
is young birds all over; they expect their parents to be mere feeding-machines, guaranteed
to produce so many meals to the hour, and hang the difficulties and the risks.

There was no sign of Blackie's wife.  Presumably she was working just as hard on her own "beat"
as he had been on his--their hunting-grounds were separate, though they joined--and would soon
be back.

Blackie did not wait.  He managed again the miracle of getting away from his nest without appearing
to do so, and next turned up on the summer-house roof.  Fatherlike, he thought he had done
enough for a bit, and would enjoy a "sunning reaction" on the summerhouse roof.  It was rather
a good place, a look-out tower from which he could slip over the side into the hedges, which
met at the corner where it was, if trouble turned up.

Trouble did turn up, but not quite what he had expected.  He had been sitting there, wing-stretching,
leg-stretching, and "preening" his feathers, and had finally left off just to sit and do nothing,
when--lo! his wife popped up over the side without warning, and right upon him.

She was very dark brown, not black, and had a paler throat than the palish throat of most hen
blackbirds--nearly white, in fact.  She said nothing.  Nor did Blackie, but he looked very
uncomfortable.  She did more than say nothing.  She went for him, beak first, and very angrily
indeed; and he, not waiting to receive her, fled down to the lawn, and began worm-hunting for
dear life.  A whole lecture could not have said more.

Mrs. Blackie remained on the roof for about a minute, looking round, and then flew off to her
own hunting-ground.  She was wilder and less trusting of the world than Blackie, and did not
care for his lawn in full view of the house windows.  And Blackie did not even stop his work
to watch her go.  Apparently they had, previously in their married life, arrived at a perfect
understanding.

This time, too, Blackie got a big and a small worm.  The small he coiled like a rope, and held
up towards the base of his beak; the big he carved up into sections, which he held more towards
the tip.  The large ones, it seemed, were too awkward and lively simply to carry off rolled
up whole.

The journey that followed was a fearful one in Blackie's life, for he met half-way the very
last foe in the world he was expecting--namely, an owl.  Truly, it was a very small owl, scarce
bigger than himself; but it was an owl, and, like all its tribe, armed to the teeth.  Men called
it a little owl.  That was its name--little owl.  Blackie didn't care what men called it; he
knew it only as one of the hundred or so shapes that death assumed for his benefit.

Just at that time it happened to be cloudy, and little owls often hunt by day.  But how was
Blackie to know that, little owls being a comparatively new introduction into those parts?

Blackie screamed and fled.  The owl did not scream, but fled, too--after Blackie.  Blackie
had no means of judging how close that foe was behind by the whir of its wings.  Owls' wings
don't talk, as a rule; they have a patent silencer, so to speak, in the fluffy-edged feathers.
Therefore Blackie was forced to do his best in breaking the speed record, and trust to luck.

It was a breathless and an awful few seconds, and it seemed to him like a few hours.  The owl
came up behind, going like a cloud-shadow, and about as fast, and Blackie, glancing over his
shoulder, I suppose, yelled afresh.  The terror was so very close.

Then Blackie remembered another excavation, just like the one his nest was in, a little off
his course to the left, and he tacked towards it, twisting his course wonderfully, thanks to
the long tail.  And the owl lost a foot on the turn.  I think it was expecting Blackie to make
for the hedge at all costs.  But, be that as it may, that foot was never made up again, for
Blackie vanished into the trench next instant, like a blown-out light, and, though the hunter
searched for him carefully, he never put in an appearance again while that owl was within sight
of the place.

All signs of uproar on the passing of the little owl had died down some time before Blackie
turned up again, and then it was in the garden, so he must have got from the tunnel unseen.

He still hung gamely to the food for his young, and now made another attempt to deliver that
food where it belonged.  He was half-way there, indeed, before he saw the boys--three boys--with
two rows of birds' eggs threaded on strings.  They were passing so close to the trench that
one nearly fell into it, and, of course, any one could see that they were bird-nesting.

Blackie swerved off sharply to the far hedge, his heart nearly bursting with anxiety, little
knowing that the boys had never even thought of looking in the trench for nests.  It seemed
the last place in the world to find one.  It may have been, moreover, that he feared that his
wife was home, in which case she might have lost her head, and, dashing out with a scream,
"blown the whole gaff," as they say in the vernacular.

Apparently madam was not at home, by good luck, for the boys passed, and Blackie once more
executed the magic of getting into his nest without seeming to do so.  And here he stayed.
Dusk was setting in, and his young were fourteen days old.  They showed it in their disobedience,
and were not in the least inclined to keep as quiet as they should, considering their father
had but just warned them, in his own way, to "lie doggo," because of the gray shape he had
seen sliding out into the field, a gray shape which was a cat.

They were more like thrushes than blackbirds, those youngsters, with their speckly fawn breasts;
and they were not like the adults of either in their frog-like attitudes and heavy ways.  Frankly,
they were not beautiful, even at that stage; and a fortnight before, when they had been larger
than the eggs they had come out of, they were positively reptilian and repulsive.

Blackie said the blackbird equivalent to "Be quiet, you little fools!" as quietly and as sternly
as he could three or four times, and perched on the top of a wheelbarrow to watch the gray
shadow which was a cat. That sudden death, however, was more afraid of the open than Blackie,
even, and, moreover, wasn't expecting blackbirds' nests in the middle of fields.  It turned
back; and at length Mrs. Blackie, who had been on a general survey round about to see what
foes of the night were on the move--and a fine hubbub she had made in the process--came home,
reporting all well.

Then they slept; at least, they ceased to be any further seen or heard. Think, however, how
you would sleep if every few minutes you could hear sounds in your house one-third of which
were probably the noises of a burglar.  Think, also, how you would feel if you knew that that
burglar was a murderer, and that that murderer was, in all likelihood, looking for you, or
some one just like you.  Yet those birds were happy enough, I fancy.

It was barely pale gray.  It was cold and wan and washed, and wonderfully clean and sweet,
and wet with dews, when a lark climbed invisibly into the sky and suddenly burst into song,
next morning. There was something strange and out of place, in a way, in this song, breaking
out of the night; and as it and another continued to break the utter silence for ten minutes,
it seemed rather as if it were still night, and not really dawn at all.  Dawn appeared to be
waiting for something else to give it authority, so to speak, and at the end of ten minutes
that something else came--the slim form of Blackie, streaking, phantom-like, through the mist
from the trench out in the field to the summer-house in the garden.  Here, mounted upon the
very top, he stood for a moment, as one clearing his throat before blowing a bugle, and then,
full, rich, deep, and flute-like, he lazily gave out the first bars of his song.  Instantly,
almost as if it had been a signal, a great tit-mouse sang out, "Tzur ping-ping! tzur ping-ping!"
in metallic, ringing notes; a thrush struck in with his brassy, clarion challenge, thrush after
thrush taking it up, till, with the clear warble of robin and higher, squeaking notes of hedge-sparrow
and wren joining in, the wonderful first bars of the Dawn Hymn of the birds rolled away over
the fields to the faraway woods, and beyond.

Blackie sang on for a bit, in spite of the fact that people said that it was not considered
"the thing" for a blackbird with such domestic responsibilities to sing.  And two other blackbirds
helped him to break the man-made rule.

As a matter of fact, I fancy he was not taking chances upon the ground while the mist hung
to cover late night prowlers, for as soon as the gay and gaudy chaffinches had stuck themselves
up in the limes and the sycamores, and started their own smashing idea of song, he was down
upon the lawn giving the early worm a bad time.

Then it was that he heard a rumpus that shot him erect, and sent his extraordinarily conspicuous
orange dagger of a beak darting from side to side in that jerky way of listening that many
birds affect.

"Twet-twet-et-et-et! twet! twet-twet-twet-et-et-twet!" came the unmistakable voice of one in
a temper, scolding loudly.  And he knew that scold--had heard it before, by Jove!  And who
should know it if not he, since it was the voice of his wife?

Perhaps he heaved a sigh as he rose from the deliciously cool, wet lawn--where it was necessary
to take long, high hops if you wanted to avoid getting drenched--and winged his way towards
the riot.  His wife was calling him, and it came from the other side of the garden, her side,
behind the house.  Perhaps it was a cat, or a rat, or something. Anything, almost, would set
her on like that if experience, plus the experience of blackbirds for hundreds of generations
working blindly in her brain--and not the experience of books--had taught her that the precise
creature whom she saw was a danger and a menace to young blackbirds.

All the same, when Blackie arrived he was surprised, for all that he saw was a grayish bird
with "two lovely black eyes," not by any means as large as a blackbird.  When it flew it kept
low, with a weak and peculiar flight that was deceiving; and when Mrs. Blackie, following it,
and yelling like several shrews, got too close, it turned its head, and said, "Wark! wark!"
in a harsh and warning way.

Blackie joined in with his deeper "Twoit-twoit-twoit!" just by way of lending official dignity
to the proceedings.  Whereupon his wife, feeling that he had backed her up, redoubled her excitement
and shrill abuse.

And they spent two solid hours at this fool's game, helped by a robin, a blue tit, and a chaffinch
or two--the chaffinch must have his finger in every pie--following that gray bird from nowhere,
while it moved about the garden in its shuffling flight, or alternately sat and scowled at
them.  But it must be admitted that Blackie himself looked rather bored, and might have gone
off for breakfast any time, if he had dared.

As a matter of fact, however, the bird did not stand upon the Register of Bad Deeds as being
a terror of even the mildest kind of blackbirds. Red-backed shrike was her name, female was
her sex, and from Africa had she come.  Goodness knows where she was going, but not far, probably;
and the largest thing in the bird line she appeared able to tackle was something of the chaffinch
size.  But, all the same, Mrs. Blackie seemed jolly well certain that she knew better.

Then arrived the bombshell.

One of the Blackie youngsters, stump-tailed, frog-mouthed, blundering, foolish, gawky, and
squawking, landed, all of a heap, right into the very middle of the picnic-party.

Mrs. Blackie very nearly had a fit on the spot, and the shrike judged that the time had about
arrived for her to quit that vicinity.

Blackie himself, to do him justice, kept cool enough to do nothing. Wives will say that he
was just husband all over, but there were reasons abroad.  One of them shot past Blackie, who
was low down, a second later and a yard away, and had he not been absolutely still, and therefore
as invisible as one of the most conspicuous of birds in the wild can be, he would have known
in that instant, or the next, what lies upon the other side of death.

Another reason shot through the lower hedge, and, both together, they fell upon the young bird.

They were the cat of the house and her half-grown kitten, and they were upon the unhappy youngster
before you could shout, "Murder!"

What followed was painful.  Mrs. Blackie went clean demented.  Blackie went--not so demented.
(It always appeared to me that his was a more practical mind than his wife's, perhaps because
he wore a more conspicuous livery.)  Mrs. Blackie kept passing and repassing the cats' backs,
flying from bough to bough, and sometimes touching and sometimes not touching them.  It was
useless, of course, this pathetic charging; and it was foolish.

Blackie charged, too, but not within feet.

Suddenly the old cat, who had had one eye upon Mrs. Blackie the whole time, sprang up and struck
quickly twice.  There was a chain of shrieks from Mrs. Blackie, and down she went in the grip
of the clawed death. She never got up again.

What had happened was simple enough.  One of the laborers working on the trench, knowing of
the nest, had, out of curiosity, approached a little too close, when the bevy of youngsters,
being ready to fly, but not knowing it before this great fright, burst apart at his approach
like a silent cannon cracker.  The fear showed them they could use their wings.

All three had made, flying low and weakly, for the nearest hedge, which was the garden hedge--two
to the side which comprised their father's hunting-ground, and one to the side dominated by
their ma.  And the old cat and her kitten had seen them coming, and had given chase.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Blackie discovered his remaining progeny sitting about in bushes, squawking, a few minutes
later, when he returned, somewhat agitated to his precious lawn, and there he promptly proceeded
to feed them.  The task was such a large one, and took so long, and so many worms had to be
cut up, and so much bread, and, I may say, when all else failed, so many daisies had to be
picked, before he finally silenced their ceaseless, craving remarks, that, by the time he had
finished feeding himself and had a clean up, something of the pain of the tragedy had gone
from him.

And fine fat blackbirds he made of those youngsters, too, in the end, I want to tell you, for
he stuck to 'em like a brick.

III

UNDER THE YELLOW FLAG

A little past noon each day the sun covered a crack between two boards on the summer-house
floor, and up through that aperture, for three days, had come a leggy, racy-looking, wolfish
black spider.  Each day, as it grew hotter, she extended her sphere of jerky investigation,
vanishing down the crack again when the sun passed from it.

To-day she prolonged her roamings right up the wall of the summer-house and along a joist bare
of all save dust, and--well, the spider walked straight on, moving with little jerks as if
by intermittent clockwork, and she seemed to stroll right on top of the wasp lying curled up
on her side.  Only when one of the latter's delicate feelers shifted round towards her, as
though in some uncanny way conscious of her approach, did she leap back as if she had touched
an electric wire.  Then she froze--flat.  The wasp was lying curled up, as we have said, upon
her side, her head tucked in, her wings drawn down, her jaws tight shut upon a splinter of
wood.  She had been there half-a-year, asleep, hibernating, and in that state, without any
other protection than the summer-house roof and walls, had survived the frosts of winter.

The wasp did not move further.

The spider appeared to be taking things in, measuring her chances, weighing the risk against
her famished hunger--possibly her late husband had been her last meal, months ago--marking
the vital spot upon her prey, aiming for the shot, which must be true, for one does not miss
in attacking a wasp--and live.  Only, she would not have risked it at all, perhaps, if the
wasp had seemed alive, or more alive, at any rate.

Then came the shot--one cannot in justice call it a spring; it was too instant to be termed
that.  The spider simply was upon the wasp without seeming to go there; but the wasp was not
there, or, rather, her vital spot wasn't.  She had kicked herself round on her side, like a
cart-wheel, lying flat, with her feet, and the spider's jaws struck only hard cuirass.  Before
the spider, leaping back, wolf-like, could lunge in her lightning second stroke, the wasp was
on her feet, a live thing, after all.

The warmth had been already soaking the message of spring into her cold-drugged brain, and
now this sudden attack had finished what the warmth had begun.  She was awake, on her feet,
a live and dangerous proposition; groggy, it is true; dazed, half-working, so to speak; but
a force to be reckoned with--after half-a-year.  And one saw, too, at a glance that she was
different from ordinary wasps--would make two, in fact, of any ordinary wasp; and her great
jaws looked as if they could eat one and comfortably deal with more; whilst her dagger-sting,
now unsheathed and ready--probably for the first time--could deliver a wound twice as deep
and deadly as the ordinary wasp.  She was, in short, a queen-wasp; a queen of the future, if
Fate willed; a queen as yet without a kingdom, a sovereign uncrowned, but of regal proportions
and queenly aspect, for all that; for in the insect world royalties are fashioned upon a super-standard
that marks them off from the common herd.

The spider hesitated.  She knew the danger of the stripes of yellow--the yellow flag, so to
speak.  The fear of it is upon every insect that lives.  At the same time, the queen was undoubtedly
yet numb.

Antagonists decide in the insect world like a flash of light, and quick as thought they act.
The spider attacked now so quickly that she seemed to have vanished, and she met--jaws.  Back
she shot, circled, shot in again, and she met--sting!

It was never clear whether that sting went home.  The spider did.  She fell--fell plump to
the floor, only not breaking what spiders have in place of a neck because of the fact that,
being a spider, she never moved anywhere, not even upon a spring, without anchoring a line
of web down first.  Therefore, an inch from the ground, she fetched up with a jerk upon the
line that she had anchored up on the joist, spun round, let herself drop the rest of the way,
and ran into the crack between the boards of the floor.  Goodness knows if she lived.

The wasp, with that extremely droll, lugubrious look on her long, mask-like face which makes
the faces of insects so funny and uncanny, like pantomime masks, sat down as if nothing had
happened, apparently to scheme out the best way to possess herself of a kingdom and become
a queen in fact as well as in name.  Really, she was cleaning herself--combing her antennae
with her forelegs, provided with bristle hairs for the purpose, scraping and polishing her
wings, as if they did not already shine like mother-o'-pearl, and washing her quaint face.

She was still rather groggy from the effects of her long sleep and the cold endured--it is
a wonder how she had stood the latter at all--and when, with a subdued inward sort of hum,
she finally launched herself in flight, she nearly fell to the ground before righting herself
and flying in a zigzag heavily across the lawn.

A cock-chaffinch up in the limes saw her, and condescending at last to break his song, described
a flashing streak of wine-red breast and white wing-bars in the sun.  He appeared to recognize
her sinister yellow shield in time, however, and returned to his perch with a flourish, leaving
the wasp to go on and begin dancing up the wall of the house till she came to the open window.
Here she vanished within.

The sunlight sat on the floor of the room inside, and the baby sat in the sunlight; and the
wasp, apparently still half-awake, went, or, rather, nearly tumbled, and sat beside the baby.

They made an odd picture there--the golden sun, the sunny, golden-headed baby, and that silent,
yellow she-devil, crawling, crawling, crawling, with her narrow wings gleaming like gems.

Then the child put out her chubby hand to seize that bright-yellow object--how was she to know
that it was the yellow signal of danger in the insect world that she saw?  And, of course,
being a baby, she was going to stuff it into her mouth.  But Fate had use for that wasp--perhaps
for that baby.  Wherefore there was a little scream, a pair of woman's arms swept down and
whisked that baby into the air, and a high-heeled shoe whisked the astonished wasp into a corner.
Here she swore savagely, vibrating her head with tremendous speed in the process, rose heavily
and menacingly, made to fly out, hit the upper window, which was shut, and which she could
not see, but felt, and fell to the floor again, where she apparently had brain-fever, buzzing
round and round on her back like a top the while.

And then, rising suddenly, the queen flew away, hitting nothing in the process, but getting
through the lower and open part of the window. She seemed anxious to make sure of not getting
into the house again. She flew right away, rising high to top the garden hedge, and dropping
low on the far side, to buzz and poke about in and out, up along the hedge-bank that bordered
the hayfield.

She flew as one looking for something, and every insect in her way took jolly good care--in
the shape of scintillating streaks and dashes--to get out of it.  The mere sight of that yellow-banded
cuirass shining in the sun was apparently quite enough for them--most of them, anyway.  As
a matter of fact, she was looking for a site for a city.  She had ambition, and would found
her a city, a city of her very own, with generous streets at right angles, on the American
plan; and she would be queen of it.  It was a big idea, and we should have said an impossible
one, seeing that at that moment she was the city and its population and its queen all rolled
into one, so to speak. Queen-wasps, however, also on the American plan, ruled the word "impossible"
out of their dictionary long ago.  They "attempt the end, and never stand to doubt."

The queen came to rest on a bare patch of ground an front of a hole, and a black and hairy
spider, with two hindlegs missing on the offside, spun round in the entrance of that hole to
face her.  He had not been noticeable until he moved.

She left him in a hurry, and thereafter resumed her endless searching along the hedge-bank.
A dozen times she vanished into a hole, and, after a minute or so, came out again with the
air of one dissatisfied. Half-a-dozen times she came out tail first, buzzing warnings and very
angry, at the invitation of a bumble-bee queen, a big, hook-jawed, carnivorous beetle in shining
mail, and so forth, but she never lost her head.

Finally, she came to a mole-hole that suited her.  The other burrows had all turned out to
be field-mouse holes, leading ultimately into a main tunnel that ran the whole length of the
hedge apparently, and was a public way for all the little whiskered ones.  But this tunnel,
bored by the miner mole, ran nowhither, having caved in not far from the entrance, and was
very sound of construction, with a nice dry slope. She selected a wide spot where the tunnel
branched, each branch forming a cul-de-sac.  Here she slew swiftly several suspicious-looking
little tawny beetles and one field-cricket, who put up a rare good fight for it, found loafing
about the place.

It pleased the queen that here, in this spot, she would found her a city.  But first she must,
as it were, take the latitude and the longitude of this her stronghold to be.  She must know
where her city was, must make absolutely dead sure, certain, of finding it again when she went
out.  Otherwise, if she lost it--well, there would be an end to it before it had begun, so
to speak.  For this purpose, therefore, she rose slowly, humming to herself some royal incantation--rose,
upon a gradually widening corkscrew spiral, into the air.

She was, in point of fact, surveying the district round her capital to be, marking each point--bush,
stone, grass-tuft, tree-trunk, flower-cluster, clod, branch, anything and everything, great
and small--and jotting down in indelible memory fluid, upon whatever she kept for a brain,
just precisely the position of every landmark.  And as she rose her circles ever widened, so
that at last her big compound eyes took in quite a big stretch of sunlit picture, to be photographed
upon her memory, and there remain forevermore.

It took her some time, for it was some job; but once done, it was done for good.

Next, alighting with great hustle--now that the work was once begun--the queen ran into her
tunnel, and made sure that nobody had "jumped her claim" in the interval.  She found an ant,
red and ravenous, taking too professional an interest in the place, and she abolished that
ant with one nip; though, as you may be sure, the tiny insect fought like a bulldog.

Then she executed a shallow excavation upon the site of the future city itself, carrying each
pellet of earth outside beyond the entrance. This also took time, though she worked at fever-pitch,
almost with fury; but she managed to finish it, and fly away into the landscape in a remarkably
short while, considering.

Here once again she appeared to be searching for something through the yellow sunshine and
the falling blossom-petals--confetti from Spring's wedding.  And presently she found it, or
seemed to--an old gate, off its hinges.  But the wood was rotting, and she was no fool.  She
knew her job--the job she had never done before, by the way--and after humming around it in
a fretful, undecided sort of fashion for some while, she flew on.  Apparently she was looking
for wood, but not any wood.  Cut wood appeared to be her desire, and that oak; at least, she
put behind her a deal board lying half-overgrown, after one careful professional inspection.

Her way was through a perilous world, beset by a thousand foes, mostly in the nature of traps
and lines and barbed-wire entanglements set by spiders.  As a rule you didn't see these last
at all--nor did she; but her yellow-and-black badge usually won her a way of respect--and hate--and
she cut or struggled herself clear of such web-lines as her feelers failed to spot in time.

At last she found some real oak rails, and set to work upon them at once, planing with her
sharp shear-jaws.  A tiger-beetle, gaudy and hungry-eyed, sought to pounce upon her in this
task.  He was long-legged, and keen, and lean, and very swift; but she shot aloft just in time;
and when she came down again, with a z-zzzzp, as quickly as she went up, sting first, he had
wisely dodged into a cranny, where he defied her with open and jagged jaws.

Again getting to work, she planed off a pellet of good sound wood--it looked like a nail-scrape,
the mark she made--and masticating it and moistening it with saliva, whirred back like a homing
aeroplane to her city in the making.

There was a whir and a buzz as she passed through the portals of her main gate from the light
of day, and she reappeared again, backing out, "looking daggers," as we say, and brandishing
her poisoned dart--her sting, if you insist, on the end of her tail--in the air.  But she still
hung on to her pellet.

Presumably some unlucky visitor had called in her absence.  More sounds of concentrated argument
followed, and finally there fell out, rather than rushed out, a small and amazingly slender
black wasp, one of those hermits who seem to consecrate their lives to lonely working for a
family they never see.  This unhappy one slid down the bank, curled up at the bottom, uncurled,
curled up again, and--remained curled. Apparently her day's work was done, which comes of falling
foul of the yellow flag.

Arrived inside, at her hallowed chamber, our queen carefully selected a rootlet in the roof--not
just any old rootlet, mark you; never any "old" anything, you will notice, but a good, sound,
well-found rootlet that you could hang five or six pounds' weight to; indeed, three rootlets
before she had finished.  To these rootlets she fastened--gummed would be a more correct word--her
pellet of wasp-paper, in the form of a thin layer, and hurried away, singing, for more.  This
was, so to speak, the foundation-stone of the city, laid, be it noticed, not haphazard--our
queen never did any business that way--but with mathematical regard as to what was to follow.
In very fact, too, it was the foundation-stone of her city, only upside-down, though that is
nothing.  Wasps always do things that way, which is unlike ants, those other and greater city
builders.

Back came the queen very soon with another load, and pasted that--thin--to the first layer,
hurrying, bustling, humming a happy song continuously to herself.  Then away again for more,
and in the process to a lively battle with a robber-fly, who appeared set upon robbing her
of her blood.  It tried, like the beetle, to stalk her and pounce upon her back, what time
she was planing out wood for paper-pulp; but her back wasn't there when it pounced, and her
jaws were.  It "waited on," hovering like a falcon, and twice as keen, and when she got to
work again, dropped like a hurled lance-head, only to be met with jaws, wide and ready, as before.

It went away, watching from afar--far for an insect--from "the little speedwell's darling blue"
upon the hedge-bank, and just as she was moistening the load, gathered ready to fly off, delivered
its final ultimatum--a marvelously persistent murderer.  This time it, or, rather, she, was
received with the point--the poisoned point--and, turning like a spent lightning-flash to avoid
it, found the queen hard on her heels, following all down the gay hedge-ditch, humming high,
in nearly a shriek of rage.  Finally, she turned, to do battle for her life, and the two, grappling,
fell as shooting-stars fall, gleaming, athwart the sun, with a brrr-r like a fused wire, and
finished the job, rolling over and over on the ground--rolling over and over among the stalks
of bluebells, like the heavens "upraising from the earth."

It is written, however, that few in the insect world can withstand a queen of the yellow devils,
and in a few seconds the wasp got up and flew home again, quite unperturbed.  The robber-fly
did not get up, and she was not quite unperturbed, but died as they die who are poisoned with
formic acid, and very soon was still.

By the time the shadows crept across the entrance to the derelict mole-hole, warning the wasp
back--for your true wasp is a worshiper of the sun--the queen had formed a disc of paper, and
suspended there-from, in the middle, a stalk, also of paper, which widened out at its base,
and became, as it were, the outlines of four six-sided cells. The cells were in the shape of
a cross--that cross which you will always find at the foundation of the cities of the waspfolk,
and, in a way, a sign or mark of their nationality--the cross in the market-square, so to speak,
outwards from which the city grew.

The queen, satisfied apparently with her new city so far, hung up and went to sleep.  When
anything or anybody came to prospect for house lots, or edible victims, during the still, silent,
silver night, she hummed very severely, like an electric fan, to let the intruders know who
she was, and they mostly backed out again in a hurry.  If they took a step nearer the hum rose
an octave, and became very wicked, and that, so far as most of them were concerned, finished it.

Two, however, there were who would not take even that hint.  One was a shrew-mouse, thirsting
for blood, but who got poison instead, and next morning was found running about with his mouth
somewhere concealed behind his ear, if one may be pardoned the expression, in consequence;
and the other was a carnivorous beetle, in black, purple-shot armor, and armed with jaws toothed
like lobsters' claws.  The queen took some nasty scars from those same jaws before she got
home with the poisoned point, a clean thrust 'twist breastplate and armlet, and the invader
doubled up on the spot where he was, and had to be dragged out in the morning--not the dawning,
for the sun had well stoked up before our wasp would have anything to do with him.

She found the day already in full swing when she rose, buzzing, from her front-gate, late--for
wasps hate early morning chill, like Red Indians--and, circling once, swung straight away.
She jumped into full hustle right off, you see.  She did not merely work; she superworked.
Forced to short hours by her constitution, she had to make up for it in the time she got, and
she did.  She allowed nothing to stop her.  If anything tried to, she mostly stopped it, for
there was no compromise about this nation-builder; she reached her goal every time.

It was on this journey that a spotted fly-catcher, sitting on a gatepost, made a Euclid figure
at her in midair as she passed.  She had not power to fight the bird's beak, and her poison-dagger
was useless here; nor do fly-catchers often miss.  This, however, was an occasion when one
of them did--by an eighth of an inch--and only some electric-spark-like dodging on the part
of the insect in the air made even that one miss possible.  It was so quick, you could not
see what happened.

That day the cross of cells in this budding city was developed further, and a low wall built
round each cell.  Moreover, more cells were built, always taking the cross as the center of
all things--six-sided cells, with a low, incomplete wall, or, rather, parapet, partitioning
each off, to the number of about twenty-four cells in all.  Each cell was closed, of course,
at the top, the top being its floor, and open at the bottom, the bottom being, if I may so
put it, the top; for, as has already been said, wasp cities are built upside-down, and everybody
walks and hangs on his head, being so fitted for the purpose.  If you don't hang, you tumble
straight down into the scooped-out cavity below; but nobody ever does that till he dies, for
that cavity is at once the cemetery and the refuse-heap and the dust-bin of the city, a haunt
of tiny ghouls--beetle, spider, and fly ghouls--and other loathsome horrors, the scavengers,
hyenas, vultures, and jackals of the wasp world.

Now, after making the first cell, or, rather, the part cell, with its low parapet, the queen
laid an egg--it was very minute, that egg--inside the cell, gumming it against the top, on
the angle nearest the center of the city.  It had to be cemented there; otherwise it would
have fallen out.

In the next cell she laid an egg, too, cementing it up to the top in the same manner--always
in the angle nearest the center of the city--and in the next another egg, and so on, up to
the twenty-four or so.  It is a little doubtful precisely how long she took over the process,
because, for one thing, she made so many journeys backwards and forwards to get wood-pulp from
the rails for paper manufacture--she used paper for everything; and, for another thing, she
began to roof over the whole affair with a hanging umbrella made of layers of the finest paper
that you ever did see--much finer than that made by the ordinary common or garden worker-wasp
of the jam-pots and the stewed-fruit dish, for was she not a queen, and therefore not common
in anything she did?--and it became, in consequence, rather hard to see what she really was
"at."  Most of the time that the sky remained cloudy she used up at this job, and also when
there was a shower of rain, for she hated rain and all shadow and darkness.

Her purpose, in regard to this paper roofing, was to keep out any possible dripping that might
come through the earth roof in wet weather, and to store up and multiply the heat from her
body.  Terrific heat, to be sure; nevertheless important in the scheme of things.  When all
was completed, this city, this mighty kingdom, measured about one and a half inches round.

When all was completed, also, the wasp flew out for a drink and a feed. But first she cleaned.
The most fastidious cat was a grimy tramp in comparison to her in habits, and in all her spare
time--goodness alone knows how she squeezed in any spare time at all during those hustling
days!--her first, and generally her last, act was to clean.  She could not afford dirt.  To
be dirty, with her, was to die even more quickly than she would, anyway; for, you see, she
did not breathe through her mouth, but all over herself, so to speak--through her armor, or
hair-like tubes in that same.

From bluebell to cowslip and lily she picked her way, sipping honey and humming a wicked little
hum through her teeth, as it were, and on to where

  Daisies pied, and violets blue,
  And cuckoo buds of yellow hue,
  And lady-smocks all silver white,
  Do paint the meadows with delight.

Now she toyed with a yellow oxlip, now paused at a purple lungwort; but most she went into
the garden, and hovered, still as a humming-bird, among the rose-leaves and branches, especially
those growing against the sun-bathed old wooden porch, and for so long that one wondered what
she was doing there.  She was licking up the "honey-dew," which, translated, is the juice exuded
by the plant-lice or "green-fly," which swarmed all over the rose-trees.  This "honey-dew"
was sweet, and in great demand among such insects as had tastes that way; in fact, the enterprising
ants--who are always a decade ahead of everybody else--were, in one place, building mud sheds
over the said herds of plant-lice to prevent their precious "honey-dew" being exploited by others.

Thus a week passed, the queen fussing daily about her embryo city, adding paper covering here,
strengthening a wall there, warning off an inquisitive insect somewhere else, and adding her
heat to the natural stuffiness of the place, though one would scarcely have thought she could
have made much difference.  At times, too, in the hot sun, she appeared here or there outside,
drinking honey from some flower, or sipping "honey-dew," much to the ants' disgust and anger.

Then, at the end of the week, the first egg hatched out within the city, and, frankly, what
came forth was not lovely.  It was a legless grub, fat, presumably blind, and helpless; and
it would have fallen head downwards out of the cell, as it hatched, if it had not had the sense
to hook its tail into its own egg-shell, which in turn, as we know, was already fastened to
the top of the cell.  But it had jaws, and in addition, apparently, an appetite to use them.

Whether the queen loved it, her first baby, was hard to tell.  Did she, indeed, ever love anything?
She certainly did her duty by it; but what was the use of setting up to be a queen, anyway,
if she could not do that?  And, moreover, you've got to do your duty in the wild.  There's
no profit in monkeying with Nature, as is possible with civilization, for the penalty thereof
is death.

Wherefore did our queen, after making quite sure that the sack-like atom with a mouth, hanging
upside-down in the cell, and wriggling like anything to show its hunger, was alive, sound,
and quite all there, quit home in a hurry, and with a loud buzz, in search of rations.  But
there was a change in her manner from that adopted when looking for food for herself, and for
good reason.  Then her object had been honey; now it was--scalps!

From force of habit, more perhaps than from force of reasoning, she flew to the rose-trees,
and there fixed in her shear jaws not more than two of the helpless, fool, unarmed, soft, juicy
green-fly, which are really no more, if one may so put it, than living, infinitesimal "white"
grapes.  That she was challenged by a sentry ant--about as big to her as a bulldog to us--that
the sentry gave the alarm, that the guard turned out from one of the ants' "cowsheds" over
some of the green-fly, and that she went away in a hurry, with half-a-dozen furious ants on
their hindlegs, trying to get hold of her retiring feet with their jaws, was a matter treated
by her with insolent unconcern.

She had got her scalps, and winging home in a hurry to her baby, fed it upon green-fly.  The
baby did not feed nicely, and the picture of the glistening, corsleted devil queen-mother,
with her lugubrious, mask-like face, and the wriggling, hanging sack babe, and the luckless,
fool, helpless green-fly between them, was not a pretty one.  Here maternity was not a Sunday-sermon
subject, yet it was maternity all the same.

By this time other eggs in other cells were splitting, and giving out legless grub horrors,
as seeds that give forth plants, each wriggling mummy taking care to hook itself up to its
shell by the tail at once, lest it perish.  And the queen's work from that moment really began.
Till then she had only tinkered at it, apparently.  Now she got going "real some," and--well,
all the insect world outside knew it.  The terror of the yellow flag spread.

Upon an hour she would appear, dropping, hawk-like and terrible, out of the sun-glare, and
neatly pick up a soft and juicy caterpillar from a cabbage-stalk.  Upon another hour she would
be discovered, feet tucked up and wary, darting, like an iridescent gleam, around the angry
ants, among the green-fly on the rose-bushes.  The drowsy hum of the kettle on the kitchen
fire, and the steady, low hum of the house-fly dance in the middle of the room, would be answered
in the long, hot afternoons by her wicked warning drone as she came sailing in at the open
window, like the insolent pirate that she was, to go out again a minute later with a helpless
fly between her jaws.  The first heat of the sun, drinking up the dew, would discover her sailing
forth to war; his full, sizzling rays would reveal her waging violent warfare with the bluebottle
flies over some carcass; into his amber light of the noon her yellow flag would suddenly rise
from out the cool shade of the larder, where she had been carving meat, and "when the sun mended
his twisted copper nets," he would flash in bronze from her glistening cuirass as she droned
by high over some wriggling grub, caterpillar, or palsied fly fast locked in her jaws--and
all for her young, all for her couple of dozen legless horrors, hanging by their tails, each
in its narrow cell, in darkness and in dead silence, in the embryo city under the secret earth.

Time was when these same grubs grew so fat and big that they no longer hung, but became fast
wedged in their dormitories; time when the queen had to set to and extend downwards the wall
of each cell lest the growing inmates bulge over, and, obsessed with their ravening hunger,
incontinently eat each other; and time at last when, one after the other, each grub, having
grown out of more than one suit of clothes and donned new ones, cast its skin for the last
time, refused all further food, spun a cocoon of silk with a dome-shaped silken floor to each
cell, and for a period retired from the prying eyes of the world, even of its own mother, into
the sacred sanctuary of the chrysalis state. Then the queen's labor lightened a little for
a period, so that you could again see her at spare moments sucking nectar from the flowers
for herself, robbing the jam-dish, or lapping up the "honey-dew" of the green-fly.

Finally came the day.  It dawned all right, and there was nothing about it to show that it
was going to be different from any other fine day; yet, as soon as the wasp woke up, she knew
that, for her, it was the day of Fate.

A very cursory inspection of the budding city showed at once that during the night things had
been happening and changes taking place. The domed floors of several of the cells were palpitating
with life from within, and there were sounds of the gnawing and tearing of the silken screens.

The queen became greatly excited, and began to hum and dance a little step-dance to herself,
all alone in the darkness among the cells, as she saw her triumph evolving before her eyes.
And, almost as if the hum had called it, there rushed at her, out of the blackness across the
comb, a--a thing.

She knew by instinct that it was an enemy.  Indeed, it could not well be anything else, but
it fought like a black devil.

It was, in point of fact, a mole-cricket, a creature just like its namesake, if an insect can
be said to resemble an animal, only that its jaws were like unto the jaws of a lobster.  It
was a fearsome apparition, and very much larger even than the queen.  The good God alone knoweth
why it had chosen that moment and place to run apparently amok.

But, if the mole-cricket ran amok, the queen-wasp went berserk.  It was a thing unthinkable
that in that moment of triumph she, and the awakening city with her, should be cut off--unthinkable
and impossible, unthinkable and maddening.  Therefore she fought as few wasps have probably
fought before or since, and they are pretty expert exponents, and scarcely backward ones, of
warfare.

The battle that followed was awful.

Almost at the start the two insects, grappling, fell headlong to the excavation the queen had
made below the city, and there, rolling over and over, continued the struggle in the dark among
the refuse, the queen eternally feeling with her poison-dagger for a space to drive home her
death-blow between the other's smooth, shining armor-plates; the cricket eternally endeavoring
to behead the queen between its awful jaws.

It was a fight to the death, as most insect duels are, and it could not last long.  It was
too tense, too fiendish, too shockingly wicked for that.

Suddenly the queen's body shot out like a spring.  The opening she had been feeling for had
appeared, and she had driven her death-blow home. At the same instant, with a supreme effort,
she bent double and shot herself free, the last convulsive, shearing crush of her foe's laws
clashing to so close above her head that they actually caught in their death-grip, and held,
till she pulled them out by the roots, two bristles of her neck.

And then--well, then the queen hurried back up to her city, just in time to help out of its
cell the first of her children--and citizens at last--the first limp, clambering, damp, newly
painted, freshly bedecked young worker-wasp, perfect from feeler to sting, from wing to claw.

Quickly they broke out now from the cocoons, and the queen bustled from one to the other, assisting,
cleaning, encouraging; for it is a tricky job for an insect to come out of its chrysalis-case.
The queen's work, however, was really done; for, though for a day or two, till their cuirasses
and wings hardened, these new young worker-wasps only did light labor, acting as nurses to
the others that were following, and so on, they quickly took upon their own shoulders the whole
of the work of the city: the nursing and feeding of the young, the hunting, the building, the
scavenging, and the waiting upon and feeding the queen-mother herself completely, so that she
should henceforth labor not, nor fight, nor waste herself in the chase, but should keep at
home and lay countless eggs, and eggs, and always nothing but eggs, for the workers to rear
for the benefit of the State.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

To-day that city has a population of nearly 60,000, and contains over 11,000 cells; and the
queen is still there, laying eggs, eggs, and again eggs, till--

IV

NINE POINTS OF THE LAW

    Sharp's the word with her.--SWIFT.

Some people never know when they are well off.  It is a complaint which afflicts cats, you
may have noticed, and gets them into much trouble that their contemptuous temper might otherwise
leave them free from. The silver tabby would have done better if she had remained asleep upon
Miss Somebody's arm-chair, instead of squatting, still as marble, out in a damp field on a
damp night, watching a rabbits' "stop"--which is vernacular for a bunnies' nursery--and thinking
how nice raw, pink baby-rabbit would taste if she got the chance to sample it.  She didn't.
At least, she hadn't for an hour and a half; but, then, what's an hour and a half to a cat?
Apparently the silver tabby could wait, just like that, utterly inert, till the crack of doom--or
dawn.

Mind you, she was not alone.  She had company.  One always has in the wild at night, or nearly
always.  You couldn't see that company, but I don't know whether the silver tabby could.  Who
can tell how much a cat sees, anyway?  Nor do I think the company could see her, she being
still, and wild eyes not being good at picking out the still form. Neither could they hear
her, for she said nothing; neither did she purr.  They must have smelt her, though.  Anyway,
she seemed to be a little island in the mist--the faint, faint, ethereal dew-mist--where nobody
walked.  You could hear them--a rustle here, a squeak there, a thud somewhere else, a displaced
leaf, a cracked twig--this only once--a drumming, a patter, a sniff, a snuffle, a sigh; but
they all passed by on the other side, so to say, and gave the silver tabby room to think. 
Apparently cats are not considered good company in the wild; lonely creatures, they are best
left alone.

No mother-rabbit came to the "stop"--which the cat knew to be there--to feed her babies, which
the cat, thanks to her nose, knew to be there, too.  No baby-rabbits came out to be fed--or
to feed the cat either. "Stops" are secrets, kept from the rest of rabbitdom by the wise mothers,
and, they hope, from other inquisitive people also.  The little short holes in the middle of
the field are plugged up by the old does with grass and fur when they are away, which is pretty
often.

Then the silver tabby heard a thump come out of the night--a thud, hollow, resounding, and
noticeable.  It was repeated after an interval, and again repeated.  There was a certain note
of insistence about it--like a signal.  And if the cat had been a wild creature she would have
thrown up the sponge, or gone away, and returned secretly later, or, anyway, not persisted
in crouching there; for those thuds were a signal, and they meant that the game was up.  In
other words, some wily old mother circling the approach, or some wandering back-eddy of wind,
had given the cat away; she had been scented, and rabbit after rabbit, squatting invisible
in the night, was thumping the ground with its feet to say so and warn all off whom it might
concern.  The silver tabby, however, neither wild nor satisfied to be tame, did not know. 
She sat on, and in doing so wondered, perhaps, at the scarcity of rabbits thereabouts.

She sat, or hunched, or crouched, or couched, or whatever you call that precise position of
cats, which is neither lying down nor sitting up, for some time longer--for another twenty
minutes, to be precise; and all the while the thuds of mystery serenaded her from nowhere in
particular out of the dark--and from down-wind.

Then she must have come to the conclusion that she was being made a fool of, for she got up,
stretched herself lazily, with arched back and bared claws, and yawned a bored feline yawn.
And even as she did so she was aware of a sudden final flourish of thuds, and then dead-silence.
Next moment, in that same dead-silence, she distinctly heard something coming towards her,
and that something was taking no pains to conceal the fact.

Now, in the wild it is not the custom to go towards anything and take no pains to conceal the
fact.  The unhealth of such a procedure is swiftly borne in upon such rash ones as make the
experiment, and they seldom live long enough to pass their folly on.  Only the mighty can afford
not to walk circumspectly, and they are very few, and, with man about, even they have learnt
wisdom.  That is why the wild is so guarded, and why self-effacement becomes almost a religion
therein.

Even the cat knew this, I fancy.  Anyway, she looked surprised as she crouched again, and quickly.

Now, of all the wild-people, probably one of the most brazen is the pig; it is also one of
the bravest.  I mean, the wild pig.  And it would seem that he, or she, who came that way was
a pig, only a precious little one.  You know the ways of a pig?  How you can hear him coming
long before he comes; how he must snuffle, and grunt, and poke dead leaves, and snort, and
tread on things, and snore.  Very good.  So it was here; and these things did this new-comer,
who approached through the mist--only all in a dwarfed way, as if they were done by a tiny
grown-up pig.  Its gruntings were almost to itself; its snortings, snorings, and sniffings
quite small; and its snorts little miniature ones.  Only, in the profound silence of the night,
and in comparison with the furtive noises of all the rest of the night-wild, they sounded quite
loud.

The cat, as she crouched, passed from supercilious surprise to amazement.  You could tell that
by the roundness of her eyes.  She had no knowledge of pigs, and had never met any of the wild-folk
gone mad; yet it seemed that one must have done so now, and that one--to her growing uneasiness--was
coming straight towards her.  I fancy that in that moment she thought of the warm fire, the
singing kettle, the saucer of milk, and Miss Somebody's best arm-chair.

The thing, whatever it was, came straight on in a more or less zigzag line, till the cat could
make it out dimly in the moonlight, a blotched, roughly egg-shaped form, less than a foot long,
so low to the ground that it appeared to be running on wheels, and covered all over with prickles,
like a Rugby ball into which tin tacks had been driven head first, the sharp ends pointing
outwards and backwards.  Its head was the small end, and much lower than its back.  Its eyes,
little and pig-like, set in a black cowl, gleamed red in the tired moonlight; and its face
was the face of a pig, nothing else--just pure pig; insolent, cunning, vulgar, and blatant.
Occasionally men name a wild beast correctly, and this little beast could only have one name--hedgehog:
It was obvious on the face of it.

But the cat, being a cat and an aristocrat, knew, as has been said, nothing about pigs, real
or only so called.  She had killed a shrew once, and spat it out for tasting abominably and
smelling worse; and shrews are cousins of the hedgehogs, of the same great clan, Insectivora--far
removed from the pigs, really--and that is the nearest she had got.

She had never heard of hedgehogs, and never, never met a beast that walked through the wild
as if he owned it.  And, more, he expected her to get out of his way, which she did with feline
and concentrated remarks; and he--by the whiskers and talons!--the fool exposed his back--turned
his back openly, a thing no wild beast in its senses would do, unless running away.  And that,
for a cat who had waited close on two hours for baby business that didn't turn up, had got
most unfashionably drenched, and had, moreover, in her time, tackled more than one grown-up
rabbit, which was considerably larger than any hedgehog--that, I say, was, for the silver tabby,
too much.

She sprang.  Rather, she executed two bounds, and somewhat unexpectedly found herself on top
of the hedgehog.  I say "unexpectedly," because she had hitherto bounded upon wild-folk who
contrived mostly not to be there.  This one contrived nothing, except to stop still.  And the
cat executed a third bound--off the hedgehog, and rather more violently and more quickly than
the first two.  Also, she spat.

When she had got over the intense pain--and cats feel pain badly--of sharp spines digging into
her soft and tender forefoot-pads, she stopped, about two yards away, and glared at the hedgehog
as if he had played off a foul upon her, and she was surprised to see that he was no longer
egg-shaped, but rolled up into himself like a ball, so to speak, and utterly quiescent.  (I
wonder if she remembered the little wood-lice that she had so often amused herself playing
with in idle hours.  They rolled themselves up just like that.  Perhaps she thought she'd come
upon the Colossus of all the wood-lice.)  Anyway, after she had spat off at him all the vile
remarks she could think of for the moment, without producing any more reply than she would
get from the average stone, she came back, drawn with curiosity as by strings.

The hedgehog did not move; there was no need.  It was for the cat to make the next move--if
she chose.  He did not care.  All things were one to him, and all the views which he presented
to the world were points, a cheval-de-frise, a coiled ball of barbed wire, a living Gibraltar,
what you will, but, anyway, practically impregnable; and the beggar knew it.  "He who believeth
doth not make haste"--that seemed to be his motto, and he had, by the same token, a fine facility
for withstanding a siege.

He felt the cat, that cat who did not know hedgehogs, pat him tentatively.  Then he heard her
swearing softly and tensely at the painful result.  She did not pat again--at least, only once,
and, in spite of care, that hurt her worse than ever.  Then she began growling, low and beastily--for
all the cat tribe have a horrible growl; you may have noticed it.  Perhaps the hedgehog smiled.
I don't know.  He knew that growl, anyhow; had heard it before--the anger of utter exasperation.
He was an exasperating brute, too, for he never said anything, only shut himself up, and let
others do the arguing, if they were fools enough to do so.

Suddenly he heard the growl stop.  Followed a tense pause, during which he tightened his back-muscles
under his spines, and tucked himself in, to meet any coming shock, more tightly than ever.
Followed the pause a short warning hiss, jerked out almost in fright, it seemed--that cat's
hiss that is only a bluff, and meant to imitate a snake--a sudden explosion of snarls, and
a thud.  A fractional silence, then a perfect boil-over of snarls, and thud upon thud.

Now, our friend hedgehog was an old hand, and he had heard many and curious sounds take place
outside himself, so to speak; but, all the same, he was just tickled to death to know what,
in claws and whiskers, was happening out there in the leering moonlight now; so much so, indeed,
that at last he risked it, and took a furtive peep out of a chink in himself, as it were. 
And what he saw might have amazed him, if he had not been a hedgehog and scarcely ever amazed
at anything.  He just got a snapshot view of the cat's fine ringed tail whirling round and
round as she balanced herself on the swerve, vanishing into the ghostly moonlight haze of the
night; and in front of him, close beside him, squatting, stare-eyed and phlegmatic, he saw
the form of a big, gaunt, old doe-rabbit.  And I think he knew what had happened.  He seemed
to, anyway, and remained rolled up.

Rabbits are thoughtless, headstrong, headlong, hopeless, helpless cowards as a race and a rule.
"The heart of a rabbit," they say in France, speaking of a coward.  But all races and rules
have exceptions. Occasionally the exceptions are old buck-rabbits, who know a thing or two;
but more often they are old doe-rabbits with young.  And, mark you, from the point of view
of those wild-folk, there may be easier rough handfuls to tackle than old doe-rabbits with
young.  This one had simply streaked out of the night from nowhere--and behind--and knocked
the cat flying before she knew.  Then, ere ever the feline could gather her wits, the old doe
had descended upon her with an avalanche of blows--punches they were with the forefeet, all
over the head and the nose, where a cat hates to be hit--and all so swiftly, so irresistibly,
that that cat had never been given a chance to consider before she was stampeded into the night.
It was the silver tabby's first experience of Mrs. Rabbit doing the devoted-mother act, and,
by the look of her--tail only--and the speed at which she was going, it appeared most likely
that it would be her last.

Meanwhile the old doe-rabbit sat there in the moonlight as immovable and impassive as a Buddha,
and the hedgehog, peering at her, guessed that the time to unroll was not yet.  He knew that
it would hurt any one to attack him; the cat knew it; all rabbits in their senses knew it;
but was that mother-rabbit in her senses?  He concluded to lie low and remain a fortress, therefore.

Then, after waiting about five minutes, as if she knew that cats sometimes steal back, the
old doe-rabbit came to a "stop" quite close to the hedgehog, and went in.  She remained there
some time, during which a fox came by and sniffed at the hedgehog, but was quite wise as to
the foolishness of doing more; and a deadly, curved-backed, flat-headed little murderer of
a stoat galloped by, and sniffed too, but was no bigger fool than the fox, and went his way.

Both missed the "stop" by about two yards, though I don't know what would have happened if
they had found it.  Digging and death in the former case, and battle and blood in the latter,
perhaps.  But no matter, they passed on their unlawful occasions; and half-an-hour after the
going of the stoat the old doe-rabbit came out, and dissolved into the moon-haze.

Then the hedgehog came out, too--of himself, and--well, dissolved into the "stop."

What happened in there it was too dark to see, but not to hear; and what one could hear was--pitiful.
He was there some time, for your hedgehog rarely hurries; and when he came out again, his little
pig's eyes gleaming red under their spined cowl, it was with the same snuffling, softly grunting
deliberation with which he had gone in; but the pale moon, that showed the gleam in his eyes,
showed also blood on his snout, and on the bristles of his forefeet, blood.

Then, slowly, snorting, sniffing very audibly--as loud as a big dog often does--grunting softly
in an undertone, as if talking to himself, he departed, rustling through the grass, leaving
an irregular winding track behind in the dew and the gossamer, as he searched, eternally searched,
for food.

The hedgehog moved through the night as if he owned it and had no fear of anything on earth;
but many, it would seem, had cause to fear him. He turned and snorted, and snatched up a slug.
Three very quick and suggestive--quite audible--scrunches, and it was gone.  He described a
half-circle, sniffing very loudly, and chopped up a grub.  He paused for a fraction to nose
out a beetle, and disposed of it with the same quick three or four chopping scrunches.  (It
sounded rather like a child eating toast-crusts.)  He continued, always wandering devious,
always very busy and ant-like, always snorting loudly; grabbed another beetle, and then a worm--all
by scent, apparently--and reached the hedge-ditch, where, in the pitch-darkness, he could still
be heard snorting and scrunching hapless insects, slugs, and worms at scarcely more than one-minute
intervals.  And he never stopped.  He seemed to have been appointed by Nature as a sort of
machine, a spiked "tank," to sniff tirelessly about, reducing the surplus population of pests,
as if he were under a curse--as, indeed, the whole of the great order of little beasts to which
he belonged, the Insectivora, are--which, afflicting him with an insatiable hunger, drove him
everlastingly to hunt blindly through the night for gastronomic horrors, and to eat 'em. Anyway,
he did it, and in doing it seemed to make himself worthy of the everlasting thanks and protection
of the people who owned that land--thanks which to date he had never received.

Strange to say, he never stopped of his own free-will, though he was stopped: once when he
walked up to a man kneeling--and he was a poacher--and did not see him till, if I may so put
it, the man coughed, when he ran like winkle into the hedge, and promptly became a ball for
ten minutes; and once when he came upon a low, long, sinister, big, and grunting shadow, which
again, if I be allowed the term, he did not see, though quite close, till he heard it grunt,
when he instantly jerked himself into a ball on the spot and in the open.  In both cases it
seemed, on the face of it, more as if he had scented, rather than had either seen or heard,
the dangers, and in both cases he had come within two yards of them--though they were not hidden--before
scenting, seeing, or hearing them, whichever he did do.

Now, books and men have said that friend hedgehog fears only two things: gypsies and badgers--who
eat him.  I should not be surprised at anything the "gyp" did; nor, to this day, can we stake
much on our knowledge of the secret badger; but this badger, at any rate, seemed to know nothing
of books and men.  He was delving for roots when the hedgehog cast up out of the night and
jumped him to "attention" by his loud sniffs--much like a big dog's, I said.  Thereafter, however,
when our prickly friend was represented as a ball only, and was as silent as the grave, the
badger took no further notice of him, beyond keeping one eye--the weather eye--upon him, and
treating him to a low growl, or curse, truly, from time to time.

The hedgehog, however, once there, did not seem keen upon unrolling and exposing himself till
the badger had gone, which it did finally, vanishing so suddenly and unexpectedly into the
dark as almost to seem to have been a ghost.  And after some minutes the hedgehog straightened
out, and ate his way--one can call it nothing else--to the hedge.  Here he came upon a wounded
mouse, complaining into the night in a little, thin voice, because its back was broken, and
it could not return to its hole.  It was a harvest mouse, rejoicing in the enormous weight
of 4.7 grains and a length of 57 mm., but with as much love of life and fear of death as an
elephant.  Heaven knows what had smitten it!  Perhaps it was one of the very few who just escape
the owl, or who foil that scientific death, the weasel, at the last moment--but no matter.
The result was the same--death, anyway.

The hedgehog saw its eyes shining like stars in a little jet of moonlight, and I fear the hedgehog
slew far less adroitly than the owl, and not nearly so scientifically as the weasel; but he
slew, none the less, and he did that which he did.

From thence we find our hedgehog, still wandering devious, but with always a direction, just
as an ant has, heading his way down-ditch to a farm, and all the way he ate--beetles mostly,
but with slugs and worms thrown in.

Now, those of the wild-folk who approach the farm, even by night, do so with their life in
their paws, and most of them know it.  Far, far safer would it be to remain in wood or field-hedge,
gorse-patch or growing crop.  Yet they go, like the adventurers of old.

First of all, if he approached by ditch, before getting to the farm proper, the hedgehog knew
that he must pass the entrenchments of the rat-folk, and that alone was enough to put off many,
for the rat-folk are no longer strictly wild, and, wild or tame, are hated with that cordiality
that only fear can impose.  I don't know that our hedgehog was given to fearing anything very
much.  He came of a brave race, and one cursed, moreover, with a vile, quick temper, more than
likely to squash in its incipient stage any fear that might threaten to exist; but he did most
emphatically detest rats, except to eat them--a compliment which the rats would have returned,
if they had got a chance.

As a matter of fact, it is unlikely that Prickles--for such was the name of our hedgehog--would
have gone that risky way, traveled so unhealthily far, left his more or less--mostly less--safe
home wood at all, had it not been that it is sometimes with hedgehogs as it is with men--in
the warm seasons--their fancy turns to thoughts of love. Prickles's fancy had so turned, not
lightly, for he was of an ancient and antediluvian race, heavy in thought, but certainly to
love.  And love, I want you to realize, in the wild, or anywhere else, for the matter of that,
is the very devil.  "Unite and multiply; there is no other law or aim than love," one great
savant despairingly assorts is Nature's cry, and adds that she mutters to herself under her
breath, "and exist afterwards if you can.  That is no concern of mine."

To be precise, Prickles, who did more business with his nose than all the rest of his organs
put together, was following a love-trail.  A lady hedgehog, a flapper undoubtedly, and beautiful--all
loves are beautiful in imagination--had passed that way.  Why that unhealthful way, Heaven
knew; but, allowing for the capriciousness of the sex, and mad because in love, Prickles followed,
slowly, deliberately, heavily, as befitted one descended from one of the oldest races on earth.

The air was heavy with the scent of may and of honeysuckle, and his way was a green-gold--silver
where the moon cascaded down the hedge--and blue-black bridal-path, arched with scented swords,
strewn with pink and rose and cream and white confetti of blossom.  But he only saw and smelt
one thing, and that, those who have known hedgehogs intimately will agree, is not like unto
the scent of any blossom.

Prickles was ruminating anciently upon these things, possibly, and others, as he came down
the trench--ditch, I mean--when the cry smote him.  It smote everything--the filtered silence
of the wonderful, tranquil night, the pale moon half-light, the furtive rustling shadows that
stopped rustling, the wonderful breathing pulse of growing vegetation.  And Prickles stopped
as abruptly as if it had smitten him on his nose, too.  He heard that, at any rate, whatever
might have been hinted about the value of his ears elsewhere.

There was no doubt about that cry, no possible shadow of doubt whatever--it was a cry of extreme
distress, a final, despairing S.O.S., flung out to the night in the frantic hope that one of
the same species would hear and help.

Several night-foraging wild-folk have S.O.S. signals of their own, but none like this.  It
was not a rabbit's cry, for bunny's signal is thin and child-like; nor a hare's, for puss's
last scream is like bunny's, only more so; nor a stoat's, for that is instinct with anger as
well as pain; nor a cat's, for that thrills with hate; nor an owl's, for that is ghostly; nor
a fox's, for Reynard is dumb then; nor a rat's, for that is gibbering and devilish; nor a mouse's,
for that is weak and helpless.  Then what?  And why had it touched up Prickles as if with a
live wire?  It was perhaps the rarest S.O.S. signal of all heard in the wild, or one of the
rarest, the peculiar, high, chattering, pig-like, savage tremolo of a hedgehog booked for some
extra deathly form of death.  And Prickles--naturally he knew it.

It came from straightaway down the ditch; from ahead, where Prickles had been heading for;
from the farm, and Heaven know what it portended! Perhaps, too, Prickles could tell a lady
hedgehog's S.O.S. from that of a gentleman of the same breed; or, perhaps--but how do I know?
He certainly acted that way.

Prickles waited the one-fifth part of an instant, to listen and locate. Then he got going,
and provided one astonishment.  Till then he had seemed slow as the times he had descended
from--like a rhinoceros. But, like a rhino, he proved that he could shift some when hustled.
He did.  It looked like suddenly releasing a clockwork toy wound up to breaking-point.  His
short legs gave this impression, and his next-to-no-neck, giving him a look of rigidity, assisted
it.  He did not run so much as rush, and his spines and bristles, coming low on either side
in an overhang, so to speak, like an armored car, made him rustle and scuffle tremendously.
Three rabbits doing the same act, or five cats, could scarce have made more row than he did.

It was not, however, so much the fact that Prickles had gone that was so noticeable as the
fact that he had arrived.  His arrival seemed to follow his going as one slide follows another
on a screen.  One would never have believed such quickness of him; nor, as a matter of fact,
do I think he would have believed it of himself; but--well, love is a mighty power, and makes
folks do some strange things.

What he found was two ditch-banks, pock-marked with the untidy dug-outs of the rat-people,
smelling ratty, and looking worse, one original ray of moonlight lighting the beaten ditch
between.  In the moonlight one young female hedgehog, who may have been pretty by hedgehog
standards, but was now pretty by none, and five rats, frankly beastly, very busy indeed with
that same hedgehog.  They must have caught that young lady of the spikes "napping"--a rare
thing.  Yet, allowing for the fact that she was in love--with love and nothing else, so far--and
careless, or allowing that she may have mistaken the unclean ones momentarily, she may have
given them one brief half-instant.  And it doesn't do to give a rat even the half of a half-instant.
If you do, he has got you, or you haven't got him.

Apparently they had pretty well got her before she could quite roll up, and in a half-rolled-up
condition she was doing her best to meet the jabs of five pairs of gnawing, cold-chisel, incisor,
yellow-rats' teeth at once.  To time, apparently, she had not been successful in the attempt--you
could see the dark stains of blood glisten in the moonlight, and the end was certain, on the
face of it.

Prickles, however, was a new factor that had got to short-circuit that end, and Prickles didn't
wait to meditate prehistorically that time. He came.  He came full tilt into the midst of the
mêlée like--well, like a clockwork toy still, that couldn't stop.  Only he did stop, against
the biggest rat of all, ducking his head, and jerking forward his shoulder-muscles, and spines,
with a sort of a thrust over his head, and a noise like a pair of expiring bellows; and the
prickles hit home.

That rat removed about one foot in one bound in one-fortieth of a second, and he let rip one
squeal in the process that sent away every other rat into the nearest available hole as if
it had been fired there from a spring.  Then the lady hedgehog took the Heaven-sent opportunity
to complete her rolling-up completely, and Prickles took his own created opportunity to roll
up almost more completely, and--well, they were rolled up into two balls, you see, and there
is nothing more to be said about them.  The rats did that, but it was all they did, except
hurt their noses presently, and delicate, pink, hand-like fore-paws, and make 'em bleed on
prickles.  They were very angry indeed, those unspeakable ones--very angry; but it didn't make
any difference to the hedgehogs.  They were there; they were rolled up; they were together.
What could make any difference after that?  And at last, when the rats gave them up as a very
bad job, they went away together, and that's all there is to say.  Together clinches it, you
understand.

V

PHARAOH

I

Upon a day Hawkley came to the district, and took up his abode in a cottage of four rooms.
He "did" for himself.  Every housekeeper will know what "did" for himself means.  But he did
for himself in another way also.  He came to read up for an exam.  He told everybody this,
which was one reason why he would be seen at ungodly hours, when no one was about, going to
and from lonely spots, with a pair of blue glasses on his nose, a book under one arm, and a
walking-stick with a silver band and a tassel--he was always careful to display the silver
band and the tassel--under the other.

Then Nemesis descended upon him.

He was caught by Colonel Lymington's head-keeper on Colonel Lymington's most strictly preserved
wild-bird sanctuary, shooting certain rare birds--many rare birds.  Now, the colonel prided
himself on his sanctuary, and upon the number of rare birds he had living therein, and the
colonel was wroth.  Hawkley had, in fact, ruined the sanctuary, and taken or slain pretty well
every other bird worth having in the place, so that five years would not make good the harm
he had done.  Moreover, it was shown in the evidence that Hawkley had been able to accomplish
his work by aid of a folding pocket-rifle with a silencer on, and his cat--especially the cat,
whose name was Pharaoh.

No words of the keeper's could be found sufficiently to revile that cat.  Indeed, the head-keeper
went speechless, and nearly had epilepsy, in trying to describe it to the Court, and if it
had done only one-half the things that the keeper asserted, it must have been a very remarkable
beast indeed; the magistrate said so.  In consequence Hawkley got rather heavily fined, and
went.  He went more quickly than was expected, because the police got a telephone message from
the police of another district--several other districts, I think--to say that he was "wanted"
for precisely the same game there: and Hawkley must have expected this, for he walked out of
the court with a grin on his face, and was no more seen.

So quickly did he go that he had no time to take the cat.  He left it at home in the cottage--which
shows that he must have been badly scared, for such a cat must have been worth a lot to a collector's
agent, such as Hawkley was.  But perhaps he left it by way of revenge. I do not know.  Anyway,
there it was in his cottage, asleep on the sofa before the fire--just as Hawkley, at the invitation
of the authorities, had left it that morning.

It was about five o'clock in the afternoon when the cat, Pharaoh, woke up, and transformed
himself instantly from deep sleep to strained alertness, in that way which is peculiar to the
children of the wild, but has been lost by their domestic degenerates.  The sun was shining
full in at the little diamond-paned window.  The window was open, and a late fly of metallic
hue was shooting about with a pinging noise, like the twang of some instrumental string.  But
neither fly, nor sun, nor the tick of the little clock on the mantelpiece had awakened the
cat. It was the click of the little front-gate latch.

The cat--the pupils of his eyes like vertical slits in green-yellow stone--gave one quick look
at, and through, the open window.  He had the impression, framed in the window, of a bobbing,
black, "square" bowler hat--not often seen these days--and a red face with small eyes, and
a sticking-out beard of aggressiveness.  This was no Hawkley.  The cat knew it, as he knew,
probably, the alien tread.  Hawkley had a white, clean-shaven face, and big eyes--the eyes
that an animal may love and trust.  Possibly the cat knew even the profession of him who came
that way so softly and alone in the still afternoon.  Anyway, he acted as if he did.

Like a snake, and with rather less noise, Pharaoh slid off the sofa and to the door leading
into the scullery.  For a moment he stopped, looking back over his shoulder, one paw uplifted,
body drooping on bent legs, inscrutable, fierce eyes staring.  Then he was gone.

I don't know how he went.  He just seemed to fade out in the frame of the doorway and into
the shadowed coolth of the scullery like a dissolving picture.

A pause followed, while the little clock on the mantel-piece ticked hurriedly, as if anxious
to get on and pass over an awkward moment.

Came then the click of the front-door latch, the flinging open of the door wide, the bar-like
gleam of hastily raised gun-barrels in the new flood of light, and--silence.  Only the one
or two late flies "pinged," while the little clock fairly raced.

The tall, uncompromising figure of the head-keeper was standing in the doorway, with a double-barreled
12-bore gun half-raised.

He stood there a moment with his dog, bent a little, peering in.  He had come to find "that
there pesky cat."  And in this, perhaps, he showed more sense than most people gave him credit
for.  Apparently, he had seen enough to know that the cat was quite unlike any ordinary cat--and
cats of any kind are bad enough--and certainly he guessed that the cat under control of its
master was one, and away from that questionable influence likely to be another, and very much
worse, calamity.

The keeper searched that cottage from chimney to doorstep.  No cat there.  His dog did not,
as might have been expected, help him in this search.  Indeed, his dog, he now discovered,
had vanished--had, in fact, gone out at the back-door and cleared off.

Meanwhile the cat was, for his sins, being horribly pricked by the holly-hedge through which
he was sliding.  He growled under the punishment.  Ordinary domestic cats do not, as a rule,
growl in such cases, though they may "swear."

Once through the hedge, the cat dropped into the ditch on the other side, turned to his right,
and galloped up it.  It ran upwards, skirting a sloping wet field, to a dark, damp, black wood,
as woods always are that stand on cold clay and have much evergreen growth. They remind one
of a wet, chill rhododendron forest of Tibet.

The cat's gallop was in itself peculiar, loose, long, his head low, his forepaws straight,
his hindlegs trailing out behind.  So does the tiger gallop across the jungle glade when the
beaters rouse him.

There were other things peculiar about Pharaoh also, now that one had him on the move and could
see.  He was, perhaps, a fraction big for his kind; his coat was yellowish, fading beneath,
with "faint pale stripes" well marked on the sides; his tail was long, and oddly slender and
"whippy," ringed faintly to the black tip; his fur was short and harsh, quite unlike that of
a domestic cat, and the expression of his eyes was one of permanent, unsleeping fierceness.

Once he stopped and stared back, and in the pause which followed one could distinctly hear
a faint but rapidly increasing drumming sound following his trail up the ditch.  And least
of all beasts had that cat delusions.  He turned and galloped on.  The keeper's dog was of
an independent turn of mind.  He had quietly run that cat's trail, forgetting that, in the
long-run, dogs are not fitted to maneuver independently, and may suffer if they do so.  You
see him flying up the trail, square nose to ground, tracking really very cleverly indeed, and
with a fine amount of what huntsmen call "drive."

Ho had overtaken Pharaoh before the hunted one could reach the wood. He realized it as he took
the last bend in the ditch, when he saw a yellow streak rise under his nose, and bound, with
all four legs stuck out quite straight, and claws spread abroad, like a rubber ball out of
his path, avoiding his clumsy, murderous snap by an inch, and then felt it rebound right on
to his back.

The next few seconds were quite crowded, and that dog had the time of his life.

Even an ordinary domestic "puss" can make wonderful havoc of a dog's back when once it gets
there; and stays, as it does, like a burr, and this one could go a bit better than most; and
when that dog at last got the cat's "leave to go," he went rather sooner than at once, proclaiming
his misery aloud to all the world, so that his master, coming at that moment out of the back-door
of the cottage, heard him afar off, and swore.

As for the cat, he turned about, all bristling, and went too.  He went straight up to, and
through, the wood, disturbing in clouds the starlings, who had just come in to roost in the
rhododendrons, so that they rose with a rushing of wings like the voice of a thunder-shower
on forest leaves, and incidentally drenched the cat with a deluge of raindrops collected in
the leaves as he raced through underneath.  A lesser beast, it may be noted, would have climbed
a tree, but Hawkley, I think, had convinced his cat of that folly when a man might be following
up behind.

Straight through the wood galloped Pharaoh, and into a stretch of age-old furze, or gorse,
if you like, beyond.  That showed strategy. The furze was a maze of a million spikes, and branches,
and twisted, gnarled stems tough as wire-rope; a wonderful place, all honeycombed with rabbit-runs;
a world unto itself.

The cat moved on quickly into the heart of the furze, pausing every few strides to listen and
glare round.  Several times he sniffed the sickly grass and the carpet of dead spikes.

Once or twice something moved ahead; a branch was shaking as he came up, a blade of grass slowly
righting itself, as if something that had been sitting upon it had but just stolen away.  All
round were hints of life, but no life was visible.  It was as if the cat were moving through
an army of ghosts.

Then, in a flash, without any kind of hint or warning to prepare one for the unnerving contrast
of the change, was war--raw, red war.

There had come up a rabbit-run--a regular rabbit-turnpike--a creature. It was strikingly colored,
that creature, and big--nearly three feet long, to be exact; but it looked much bigger in the
ghostly twilight--and yet till it was actually upon him he, even he, had failed to see it.

Long, low, bear-like, and burly, with claws caked with earth, gashed and bleeding on flank
and shoulder it was, red-fanged and wild-eyed. It charged home upon Pharaoh without a second's
pause, and with an obscene chatter that was unnerving to any one, let alone so highly strung
a bag of tricks as a cat.

Men and dogs had been besieging this badger in its den for twelve hours.  It had in the end
made a desperate sortie, upset one man who had failed to grab its tail, run into and bitten
another, and got clean away.  Pharaoh was unfortunate in that he stood between the half-mad
beast and another den for which it was making.

There was no time to go back, no room to execute one of those beautiful lightning side-leaps
which are the pride of all the cats, and less to spring into the air, a neat trick of the tribe
which it has also perfected.

The cat was cornered, and, being cornered, fought like--a cornered cat! That is to say, an
electrified devil.

He reared up.  He struck, pat! pat! right and left, with the terrible, rending, full stroke
of his kind.  He met open jaws with open jaws--you could hear fang clash against fang.  He
grabbed, scrunched, drew back, grabbed, scrunched again, as a lion will--for the cats neither
hold fast like a weasel nor snap like a wolf.  Then, as the full force of the charge and the
weight of the enemy's body--some twenty-seven and a half pounds--took him, he hugged, round-arm
fashion, with his talons, and, still grabbing and scrunching, rolled over backwards.

Cat and badger turned into a ball--a parti-colored ball, very lively as to its center, and
it whirled.  Unfortunately there was not much room to whirl in.  That made things all the more
grisly.  You could almost see the grim skeleton shape of death, hovering over that growling,
snarling, spitting, worrying, tearing, kicking, gnashing, scrunching, foaming, blood-flecked
Catherine-wheel--almost see death, I say, bending down with upraised arm ready to strike. 
But death never struck.

In an instant there came, sounding strangely hollow in that still, damp air of dusk, as though
it were in a cave, the unmistakable noise of a deep, dry, hacking cough.  Truly, it was nothing
much--just a good old churchy and human cough.  But it might have been a blast from the trumpet
of the archangel Gabriel himself by the effect it had upon the two combatants.  They shot apart
like released electrified dust-atoms, and--pff!--they were gone--wiped out.  Like pricked bubbles,
they had ceased to be.  And neither gave any explanation.  Being wild things, of course they
wouldn't.

The cough had only come from a laborer, who, passing along a pathway through the furze, had
heard the commotion, and stopped.  He never saw anything, though he crashed into the furze
and hunted--he never saw anything, which was no wonder, seeing that he could hardly have selected
a way to see less.  The cat was four hundred yards away by that time, and goodness knows where
the badger was---deep down in his den, one presumes.

Later the cat slept, in a fortress of nature safe enough, surrounded by a hundred unseen sentries
with brown jackets and white tails--rabbits, who would give him all the warning he required.

II

The lean night wind next evening came down, and day went out almost imperceptibly.  Blackness
grew under the furze caverns, and the last glimpse of the estuary faded away in a steely glimmer;
a brown ghost of an owl slid low over the spiked ramparts, and wings--the wings of fighting
wild-duck coming up from the sea to feed--"spoke" like swords through the star-spangled blue-black
canopy of heaven.

The night-folk began to move abroad.  You could hear them pass--now a faint rustle here, now
a surreptitious "pad-pad" there.  Once some bird-thing of the night cried out suddenly, very
far away in the sky, "Keck! keck!" and was gone.

It was not Pharaoh, however, that you would have heard move.  None of the wild-folk could tell
how at midnight he managed to land himself far out over the marsh, unperceived.  He was there--you
must take my word for it--just two faintly luminous yellow-green lamps floating on the mist.

Not many men knew their way across the marsh by day; certainly not five even of the oldest
wildfowlers could have got over safely by night.  It was not man, therefore, that was causing
the cat to melt into the short, salt grass, so closely that there was nothing of him left.
Something else was coming his way.

Along the edge of the dike it came--tall, thin, pale, ghostly, and--yes, I could have sworn
it, though night does play odd tricks with the human eyesight--faintly phosphorescent.  At
least, it seemed to glow ever so dimly, like one that moves in a nearly burnt-out halo.

Every yard or two it paused, that thing.  Once there was a splash, as if some one were spearing
fish and had missed.

The cat moved rather less than an average stone.  He knew that in the wild to be motionless
is, in nine cases out of ten, to be invisible. The tenth case doesn't matter, because the creature
that discovers it usually dies.  Moreover, there was no cover to move to, and cover is the
cat's trump card.

Now, everything would have gone off all right if--well, if the cat hadn't been a cat, I suppose;
that is, if he had been able to stop the ceaseless twitching of the black tip of his tail.
Tiger-hunters know that twitching, and those who have stalked the lion will tell you of it,
as also the sparrow on the garden wall, whose life may have been saved from somebody's pet
"tabby" by that same twitching.  It is a characteristic habit of the tribe, I take it.

The luminous ghost-thing was close now.  Heaven knows whether it saw that twitching then! 
I think so.  It stopped, anyway, and became a pillar of stone.  The cat, almost under it, fairly
pressed himself into the grass.

Then--whrrp!

Something shot through the air like a lance, and pinned that twitching tail-point to the ground.
There had been no warning--nothing!  Just that javelin from the ghost, and---the cat on his
hindlegs, screaming like a stricken devil, clawing at the ghost, now revealed as a very big,
long-legged bird which flapped.  It flapped huge wings and danced a grotesque dance, and it
smelt abominably, with the stench of ten fish-markets on a hot day.

Then at last, the cat clawing and yelling the whole time, the bird's slow brain seemed to realize
the mistake.  The javelin, which was its beak, was withdrawn from the protesting tail-tip hurriedly--to
be driven through the cat's skull as a sheer act of necessary self-defense, I fancy.  But the
cat did not wait to see.  Imagine the infamy, the absolute sacrilege, from a cat's point of
view, of spitting a feline tail in that disgusting fashion.  Why, if you only tread on one,
you hear about it in five-tenths of the average second, and offend the supercilious owner for
a month afterwards!

There was a vision, just a half-guessed vision, of our cat shooting straight upwards through
the air, and outwards over the still waters of the dike; there was a number one splash that
set the reflected stars dancing, and the water-voles ("rats," if you like) bolting to their
holes; and there was the sighing "frou-frou-frou!" of great wings as the big bird rose and
fled majestically.  There was the sucking gurgle and drip-drip of a furred body leaving the
water on the far side, eyes that glared more hate than pen can set down, and a deep, low, malignant
feline curse.  That cat had swum the rest of the way over the dike which he could not jump.

The bird was only a heron, and that does not sound much unless you are acquainted with the
ways of the heron and all his beak implies.  A heron is one of those birds that can fight at
need, and--knows it. Moreover, in his long beak, set on his steel-spring neck, he has a weapon
of awful "piercefulness," and--knows that too.  The bird is an example of armed defense.

This one had merely been fishing for eels in that pessimistic way peculiar to all fishermen,
and seeing the tail-tip waving in the grass, and nothing else, had mistaken the same for his
quarry.  And this will be the easier to believe because we know, and probably the heron did
also, that eels are given at times to overland journeys on secret errands of their own.

The cat crawled away down the dike in offended silence.  He was wet, and the only cat I ever
knew who did not seem to be scandalized past speech at the fact.  Indeed, he went farther.
He came upon a ripple and a dot, some fifty yards farther on, which to the initiated such as
he, represented a water-vole ("rat," if you will) swimming.

Then, before you could take your pipe from your mouth to exclaim, the water-vole was not swimming.
He was squealing in a most loud and public-spirited fashion from between Pharaoh's jaws, and
it was the cat who was swimming.  He had just taken a flying leap from the bank and landed
full upon the dumbfounded water-vole--splash!  Then he swam calmly ashore and dined, all wet
and cold.  Now, what is one to say of such a cat?

III

Long did the keepers, in Colonel Lymington's woods and along the hedges, search with dog and
gun for Pharaoh, and many traps did they set.  The dogs truly found a cat--two cats, and the
guns stopped them, but one had a nice blue ribbon round his neck, and the other had kittens;
the traps were found by one cat--and that was the pet of the colonel's lady--one stoat, one
black "Pom"--and that was the idol of the parson's daughter--and one vixen--and she was buried
secretly and at night--but Pharaoh remained where he had chosen to remain, and he remained
also an enigma.

Then the colonel's rare birds began to evaporate in real earnest. Hawkley's little efforts
at depleting them were child's-play to those of Pharaoh that followed, although, of course,
Pharaoh himself did not know, or care the twitch of a whisker, whether the birds he slew were
rare or not.

Now, if there was one thing more than another about which the colonel prided himself in his
bird sanctuary, it was the presence of the bittern.  I don't know where the bittern came from,
nor does the colonel.  Perhaps the head-keeper knew.  Bitterns migrate sometimes, but--well,
that keeper was no fool, and knew his master's soft spot.

It was a night or two later that Pharaoh surmounted the limit, so to speak, and "sprung all
mines in quick succession."  He had been curled up all day in his furze fortress, that vast
stretch of prickly impenetrability which, even if a dog had been found with pluck enough to
push through to its heart, would still, in its massed and tangled boughs, have given a cat
with Pharaoh's fighting prowess full chance to defy any dog.

He was beautifully oblivious of the stir his previous doings had kicked up, and of the winged
words the colonel had used to the head-keeper; of the traps set all about, of the gins doubled
and trebled in the wood and round the park, and of the under-keepers who, with guns and tempting
baits, took up their positions to wait for him as night fell.

No one seemed to have suspected the furze a mile away, and still less the marsh and the coverless
bleak shore of the estuary, as his home. Indeed, no one looks for a cat on a wind-whipped marsh
when woods are near at all.  Yet this open, wet country seemed to be a peculiarly favorite
hunting-ground of Pharaoh's.

It was a night of rain-squalls and moonlit streaks when Pharaoh, wandering devious among the
reeds, first became aware of the bittern, in the shape of reptilian green eyes steadily regarding
him from the piebald shadows.  Possibly the cat's whiskers first hinted at some new presence
by reason of the "ancient and fish-like smell" which pervaded this precise reed jungle.

Pharaoh stopped dead.  Pharaoh, with cruel, thin ears pressed back, sank like a wraith into
the soft ground.  Pharaoh ceased to be even a grayish-yellow, smoky something, and became nothing
but eyes--eyes floating and wicked.  A domestic cat, after one frozen interval, would have
crept away from the foe it could not fathom, but Pharaoh had other blood in his veins.

To begin with, he was wondering what manner of beast the owner of those saurian-like orbs might
be.  To go on with, he was hungry, and--smelt fish.  But though he was looking full at the
big bird, he could not see it, which is the bittern's own private little bit of magic.

Nature has given him a coat just like a bunch of dried reeds and the shadows between, and he
does the rest by standing with his bead stuck straight up and as still as a brass idol.  Result--invisibility.

None know how long those two sought to "outfreeze" the "freezer," while the rain-showers came
up and passed hissing, and the moon played at hide-and-seek.  None knew when Pharaoh, flat
as a snake, first began that deadly, silent circling, which was but acting in miniature the
ways of the lion.  None knew, either, at what point of bittern first begun to sink and sink,
till he crouched, and puffed, his neck curved on his back like a spring ready set, his beak,
like a sharpened assegai, upright.

Only the short-eared owl, with his wonderful eyes, beheld Pharaoh make his final rush; watched
that living spring sprung quick as light, shooting out straight at the cat's glaring eyes,
and saw--greatest miracle of all the lot--Pharaoh dodge his head aside in the twentieth of
a second, and blink, letting the blow that spelt death whiz by.

And only those same owl's ears--sharpest of all the ears of the wild--heard the diabolical
yell of Pharaoh as the long, sharp beak pierced through the loose skin of his shoulders, and,
thanks to that same looseness, came out again an inch or two farther on, transfixing him; or
listened to the devilish noise of the "worry," as the cat turned in agony on himself and buried
his fangs where he could behind those expressionless green reptilian eyes; or caught the stupendous
flurry and whirl of wings and fur and gripping claws and scaly legs, as a cloud put out the
moon and darkness fell with silence, like the falling curtain that ends a play.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

The very last pale rays of a watery setting sun slid bar-like through the cottage window, and
fell, twirling, aslant the floor.

A late spider had spun a web across the fireplace, and the one last fly that always lingers
sat in the sunbeam.  It was Hawkley's cottage, dismantled and derelict.

Something like a furry round hassock, lying motionless in a far corner, moved at the sound
of rain, and lifted a round head with round eyes that glared with so terrible an expression
that one caught one's breath.  There was blood--dried blood--by the furry shape, and drops
of dried blood across the floor from the window in the next room, that it had been nobody's
business to shut.

The day went out in gloom and howling rain-rushes.  Darkness took possession of the room. 
And--the gate clicked.

Truly, it might only have been the wind, but--Pharaoh was on his feet in a flash, growling,
and there was a glint of green-yellow light as his eyes whipped round.

Followed a pause.  Then, in a lull, once, twice, the unmistakable crunch of a shod foot on gravel.

Another pause.  Pharaoh was crouching close now, trembling from head to foot.

"Pharaoh!  Pharaoh!  Pharaoh, old cat, are--are you in there?"

The voice, strained and husky, came in at the open window.  In the last lingering afterglow
of dying day, a face, haggard and set, showed there, framed in the lead casement.

"Phar----  Ah!"

Pharaoh was up.  Pharaoh had given a strange, coaxing little cry, such as a she-cat gives to
her kittens.  Pharaoh, lame and stiff, but with tail straight as a poker, was running to the
window in the next room, was up on the sill, was rubbing against and caressing the haggard
face like a mad thing.

There was a long, tense pause, broken only by a continuous purring. Then the creaking sound
as of the lid of a wicker basket being opened. The purring ceased.  The creaking came again,
as if the lid were being shut.  There came the crunch once more of stealthy shod feet on gravel,
the click of the gate, and--silence!

Hawkley had come for, and found, his cat.

VI

THE CRIPPLE

It was gradually getting colder and colder as he flew, till at last, in a wonderful, luminous,
clear, moonlit sunset, when day passed, lingering almost imperceptibly, into night, the wind
fixed in the north, and a hard white frost shone on the glistening roofs--far, far below.

Up there, at the three-thousand or four-thousand feet level, where he was flying, the air was
as clear and sparkling as champagne, and as still as the tomb.  If he had been passing over
the moon instead of over the earth, the effect would have been something like it, perhaps.

He was only a thrush, Turdus philomelus the songster, but big and dull and dark for his kind,
and he had come from--well, behind him, all shimmering and restless in the moonlight, like
a fountain-basin full of quicksilver, lay the North Sea; ahead and beneath lay England; and
across that sea, three hundred miles, as I count it, at the very least, to the lands of melting
snow, he was going when late cold weather had caught him and warned him to come back.  And
alone?  No, sirs, not quite.  Ahead, just visible, blurredly--a little phantom form rose and
fell on the magic air; behind, another; on his right, a third--all thrushes, flying steadily
westward in silence; and there may have been a few more that could not be seen, or there may not.

His crop, as were the crops of the others, was perfectly empty. Indeed, he appeared to prefer
traveling in ballast that way.  But his eyes shone, and his wing-strokes, with little pauses
of rigidity between, such as many birds take--only one doesn't notice it much--were strong
and sure.

Once a large-winged, smudged shape, making no sound as it slipped across the heavens, came
flapping almost up to him, peering this way and that at him and his companions, with amber
flaming eyes set in a cat-like, oval face.  The thrush's heart gave a great jump, and seemed
threatening to choke him, for that shape--and it howled at him suddenly, in a voice calculated
to make strong men jump--was death of the night, otherwise a short-eared owl.

But a gun went "boomp!" with that thick, damp sort of sound that smacks of black powder, somewhere
down on earth, and a huge "herd" of green plover, alias peewits, which are lapwings, rose,
as if blown up by an explosion, to meet them, their thousand wings flickering in the frost-haze
like a shower of confetti, and the owl was so disconcerted by the disturbance that he dropped
back into the night whence he came, as one who falls into a sea.

Then suddenly the thrush--all the thrushes, indeed--tipped tails, and flew downward--offering
no explanation to help one to understand why--till they dropped, each one entirely on his own
hook, apparently, in or about some gardens, as if they had tumbled out of the sky; and our
thrush, in twenty seconds, had slipped into some apple-trees, and thence to some laurels round
a shed, and--was asleep!  I say "was asleep."  Out of the starry sky, down, in under, and asleep--all
without emotion, and like a machine.  Now, what is one to make of such a bird?

He did not see, or, more correctly, did not appear to see--for I do not know what he saw and
what he pretended not to see, really--the lean, lithe, long, low weasel that passed, climbing
and sniffing, beneath him--within six inches--possibly scenting out a rat.  He did not hear,
or show that he heard, the blackbird--she was rusty, dark brown, as a matter of actual fact--scream,
a piercing and public-spirited scream, when the very big claws of a little, round, spotted-feathered
ball with wings, like a parody of a cherub--but men call it a little owl, really--closed upon
her and squeezed, or pierced, out her life.  He did not feel, or let on that he felt, the branches
gently sway as two eyes, glinting back the light of the moon--eyes which were the property
of a "silver tabby" female cat--floated among the twigs, looking for him, him most certainly,
whom she seemed faintly to smell, but never saw.

These things represented tense moments dotted through hours of cold, dark silence, and the
blue-black dome of night arched, and the moon drifted, all in rigid, cold, and appalling stillness.

Then the wind changed, and our thrush awoke to a "muggy" day, under a soaked, cotton-wool,
gray sky, all sodden with streaming showers of rain.  And, by that token alone, he must have
known that he was in England.  No other climate is capable of such crazy, unwarned, health-trying
changes.  He had come in an icy, practically petrified silence.  He left in a steaming, swishing,
streaming gale.

But that was not before he had been down to scratch like a fowl among the dead leaves under
the privet-hedge for grubs, who "kidded" themselves that they were going to be fine, flashing
insects next summer.  He also prospected a snail or two, and broke through their fortifications
by hammering the same upon a stone.  And, by some magic process that looked akin to the way
in which some men divine water, he divined a worm out of seemingly bare earth.  It was there,
too, and it came up, not joyfully, but tugged, to be hammered and shaken into something not
too disgustingly alive to be swallowed.

Then, while a robin mounted to a spruce-spire and acted as Job's comforter to all the birds
of the garden by singing--ah, so plaintively and sweetly!--of the dismal days of frost and
snow, he "preened"--i.e. went over and combed every feather, and tested and retested, cleaned
and recleaned, each vital quill.  Then, in one single, watery, weak stab of apology for sunshine,
on the top of a fowl-shed, he surrendered himself to what, in wild-bird land, is known as the
"sunning reaction," which really consists of giving body and mind utterly to the sun and complete
rest.

And then he left.

Now, it was no chance that he left.  Birds don't do business that way. To you or me, that location
and its climate would have seemed as good for him to "peg out a claim" in as any other.  He
knew better. Something--Heaven alone knows what--within him told him what was coming.  He had
the power to take a draft on the future, and by that means to save himself--if he could.  Wherefore
he flew on southward--always south.

And six hours after he had gone, the wind swung like a weather-cock, swung and stopped at northeast,
and frost began to grip that garden in an iron fist that threatened to squeeze the life out
of every living thing in it, and the sky hung like the lid of a lead box.

The thrush flew, with a few halts, practically all day and well into the night, and the northeast
wind and the Frost King chased him south.

He roosted in a great fastness of age-old holly-bushes within a wood, whose branches were packed
with his relations--redwings, thrushes, and blackbirds, and also starlings--all tired out,
all booked for the south.

Some woods seem to hold a curse of gloom.  One cannot say why.  And this was one of them. 
And the tawny owl that nobody saw but everybody heard, and the white stoat that everybody saw
and nobody heard, and the amorous dog-fox with the cruel bark that everybody saw and heard,
did not, taken together or singly, add to the gayety of the scene.

The thrush was just ahead of the cold when he went to roost in pouring rain.  In the night,
however, the cold had overtaken him, and the thousand-jeweled beauty of frost-flakes flashed
to his waking eye.

He was numbed and puffed out and peevish, and disinclined to move, but anything was better
than sticking about in this roosting-place, this casual ward and clearing-house of the wild.
The keen starlings were already off, swinging away, regiment by regiment, with a fine, bold
rush of wings; the blackbirds were dotting the glades; the redwings were slipping "weeping"
away, to find soft fields to mope in; and the pigeon host--what was left alive of it after
diphtheria had taken its toll--had streamed onwards, heading southwest.

Turdus philomelus spelt L-u-c-k for our friend that morn, for he had not prospected two hundred
yards when he came on a place where a vagrant "sounder" of half-grown, domestic, unringed pigs
had been canvassing the wood for beech-mast, acorns, and roots during the night. The soil was
all torn up for a space of about an acre, probably the only soil for miles--except along streams
and by springs--penetrable by beaks until the sun came out; and the thrush feasted royally
upon hibernating caterpillars and chrysalids that would have become moths, beetle larvae all
curled up and asleep, and other pests; and he must have done a considerable amount of good
in that place during the next hour or so.

But feasts do not go begging long in a frost-bound wild, even if they are hidden; and by the
time our thrush had driven several other thrushes away--for he was a jealous feeder--and had
been driven away by blackbirds himself more than once, starlings descended upon the place with
their furious greed, and our thrush concluded that it was about time to "step off."  The crowded
place might become a quick-lunch resort for some others, not insect-feeders--hawks, for instance--and
was unhealthful for that reason.  Indeed, he had not more than moved away into the shelter
of the rhododendrons when a shadow with a hooked bill shot round the corner, going like the
wind.  He had time to see it dive like a dipping kite--but it was a sparrow-hawk--and to hear
the death-scream of a feeding blackbird, before he went completely from that place, and it
knew him no more.

Soon after that he sighted the sea, wide-stretched and restless, ahead, and turned westward
parallel with the coast-line, till, in the afternoon, he came unto "a land where it was always
afternoon"--a flat, damp, dwarf-treed, relaxing, gray land, mild, as a rule, and melancholy--a
land full of water.  But for once it was a cold land, and the thrush realized that the bitter
frost had leapt ahead of him, and that he might now never outstrip it again, perhaps.  I do
not know if he realized, too, that the lead sky, that looked as if it were going to come down
and crush one, meant snow.

In a bare orchard he was attracted by the sight of several blue titmice and two robins, feeding
upon one or two odd apples that had been left unpicked at the very top of a tree.  It seemed
strange and out of place to behold apples in midwinter like that; but, for some reason, he
took only a few pecks, and his devil prompted him down to peck at some soaked bread among the
violets, and to drink at a spring so exquisitely encrusted with moss that it looked as if everything,
every floating dead leaf, stone, and root, had been upholstered in plush.

Then Fate struck--hard.

A snap, a thump, and he was bouncing over and over, with an air-rifle bullet in his thigh.
It was a blow that knocked him half-silly, and he was down before he knew, but only for a second,
because of what he saw. He beheld a boy, with an air-rifle in hand, running towards him; but
ahead of the boy was the boy's young cat, who evidently had learnt to look for a meal when
the air-rifle went off.

The cat, being young, however, managed to bungle his pounce for the fraction of a second, and
that is long enough for most of the wild-folk.  Came a mad fluttering, a beating of wings,
a quick mix-up, and, before he knew, that cat found himself frantically chasing that thrush
across the orchard, striking wildly always at a thrush that just wasn't there, as the latter
part flew, part hopped, with every ounce of strength and agility that clean, hard living had
given him, till he was clear of the trees.  Then--up and away, with his heart in his beak,
so to speak, and his brain whirling, till the orchard lay "hull down" on the horizon, and was
only another bitter experience, and a warning, seared into the bird's memory.

So far, so good.  He had made his escape, had euchred Fate, but--the payment for laziness,
the terrible cess for a momentary lapse from vigilance, which great Nature, in her grim, wise
cruelty, always demands, had to be met, and the end of it was not yet.

It began, however, now.

The thrush discovered that he was not alone in the air, and that he had all at once got himself,
as it were, fixed in the public eye, and was "wanted."  A swish in the sky made him look up,
to see a rook, with a leering eye, coming down upon him.  He cleverly "side-slipped" in mid-air,
and let the rook, braking wildly, go diving by.  Perhaps he wondered what had turned the rook
hawk.  As a matter of fact, the weather had, partly, and the rifle had, the rest; for the rook
could see what the thrush did not yet realize.

The rook went away astern, shouting bad language, and another foe came to take his, or her,
place.  Again our thrush discovered that he was not alone.  Little, white, silent, cruel, dancing
flakes of white were traveling more or less with him and downwards, upon the following wind.
The snow!  The snow at last!  And he was trapped, for it was to keep ahead of the snow that
he had journeyed all that way back again. Indeed, you can hardly realize, unless you have almost
lived their life, what the snow and the frost mean to all the thrush people, but more especially
to the common song-thrush and the redwing.  At the worst it means death; at the best, little
more than a living death.

However, to race the snow were useless.  Yet he flew on, and on, and on, like a stampeded horse,
blindly, one-sidedly, while the ordnance survey map beneath turned from brown, and chocolate,
and silver-gray, and dull green, first to pepper and salt, then to freckled white, then all
over to the spotless white eider-down quilt of the winter returned, as far as the eye--even
his binocular orbs--could reach, muffling tree and house, and garden and copse, and farm and
field, and fallow and plow and meadow in the one mystical, silent, white disguise of winter.
And the thrush at length came down.

His eye had spotted a little corner of a garden that might have been a spread table in the
wilderness.  It was only a small triangle of lawn, with a summer-house at its apex, and a spruce-fir
and a house at its base, and privet-hedges marking off the rest.  But it had a "bird-table,"
and a swept-clean circle on the grass, and there was sopped bread upon both.  And that place
was given over entirely to chaffinches, all hens, tripping, mincing, pecking, feasting, fighting--because
they were chaffinches, I suppose, and must fight--all over the place.

The thrush came to anchor upon the roof of the summer-house, and--straightway fell upon his
beak!  And that was Fate's punishment for laziness, one second's relaxation from vigilance.

Righting himself, he almost overbalanced the other way, and only finally managed to come to
an intricate halt on one leg.  The other leg--the right one--was twisted back under him, in
line with his closed wings and tail; that is to say, it was pointing the wrong way for a bird's
leg, or, rather, so far as could be seen among the feathers, that was how it seemed.  But the
leg was not broken; he could still move his toes and expand his foot.  Otherwise he could do
nothing with it.  The leg might not have been there, for all the use it was to him; it would
have been better if it had not been there, for it hampered his flight, or unbalanced him, or
something, so that he was incapable of traveling now beyond the snow, even if he would.  Undoubtedly
the air-rifle had done its work.

Now, in the wild it is a fairly sound maxim that an injured wildling is a dead wildling--that
is, unless the injury is quite slight.  There are exceptions, of course.  Flesh-wounds and
quick-healing wounds are exceptions.

However, our thrush seemed to be no coward, and he at once buckled to, to fight Fate and all
the world--one bird v. the rest.  It was appalling odds, and I guess no darn fool could have
been found to back that bird's chance of winning through.

Then he showed that he had at least one trump up his sleeve.  A shape like unto the shape of
a silken kite came floating in ample circles across the low-hung sky.  And the color of that
shape was brown--pale brown; and the shape was alive, and had the appearance of eternally looking
for something, which it always could not find.  So hunts the kestrel falcon, and by the same
token the thrush knew that this was a big hen-kestrel.  I say "big" advisedly, because in kestrel
society it is the ladies who have the weight and the vote.

And the thrush, who had by that time flown to the ground, promptly "froze "--froze to stillness,
I mean--and vanished.  It was a startling little trick of his, almost an eccentricity; but
the fact was that so long as he kept still on the dark ground where the snow had been swept
away--and earth and grass mingled almost to a black whole against the white--he was practically
invisible.  This was because of his peculiar somber color.  Had he been light of dress, like
an ordinary song-thrush, any eye could have picked him up in that spot.

Now, that kestrel was in a bad temper and vicious.  She was cursing the snow which covered
the doings of the field-mice, which ordinarily were her "staff of life"; and she had not killed
since dawn.  Hence she was a public danger, even to wild-folk she usually left alone, and just
now she was looking for our thrush, who she had seen fly down and--vanish.

There he was, however, bang in the open, unshielded by any cover, motionless on one leg, looking
upwards, and, to all intents and purposes, not there.  The kestrel came shooting up superbly,
going at a great pace on the wind, cutting the cold air like a knife, twisting and turning
her long tail tins way and that, but moving her quarter-shut wings not one stroke.  Right over
him she dived, her wonderful eyes stabbing down, so close that you could see her small, rounded
head turning and craning.  But no thrush did she see.  She "banked," hung, swept round, and
came back.  Then she hovered, like a bird hung from the sky by an invisible hair; and for our
thrush she was indeed the sword of Damocles, for the spot in the air where she hung was directly
over him.  If anybody had shot her dead at that instant, she would have fallen upon his back.
At that instant, or the next, she might fall upon his back, anyway, without anybody shooting
her.  Indeed, the betting seemed a good few hundred to one that she would.

Very few human beings know the full meaning of the word "still"--not even bluejackets!--but
most of the wild-folk do.  They have to.  So did the thrush, but never before had he kept so
utterly, stonily, frozenly, strickenly motionless.  If he had moved an eyelid even, winked,
or gulped too hard, it would have been all up with him.  But he didn't and it was not all up;
though the kestrel seemed as if she were going to hover there, in that spot, through all eternity.
And when at last she condescended to surrender to the wind and vanish like a falling star into
the horizon, our friend was as near nervous prostration and hysteria as a bird can be.  A very
little longer and I believe he would actually have died from sheer overstrain, instead of from
kestrel.

Then the thrush fed.  He did it against time, before dark, for if night came and caught him
with an empty crop, he froze.  Perhaps he would freeze, anyway; but no matter.

The hen-chaffinches, presumably at the end of a journey, or part way along it, too, were in
a like hurry, and for the same reason.  He could see them now only as faint splashes of white,
as they opened tail and wing to fight; but they could not fight him, and he savagely kept the
little clearing in the snow free of all save himself.  It was as if he knew that he was "up
against it," and the fact had developed a grim fierceness in his character.

An owl must have gone over about this time, because an owl did go over that garden about the
same time every night; but perhaps she was not expecting thrushes in that gloom, or was in
a hurry to keep an appointment with a rat.  Anyway, the owl did not develop.

Thereafter and at last the thrush went to sleep in a spruce-fir.

Dead silence reigned over the garden, and Cold, with a capital C, gripped the land.  Heaven
help any bird who roosted on an empty stomach on such a night!  It would freeze to its perch
before morning, most like.

Indeed, our thrush had a neighbor, a hedge-sparrow just newly arrived from "somewhere up north."
It had come in after dark, and therefore had no time to feed.  The thrush just took his head
out from under his wing and opened one eye, as the poor little beggar perched close to him
for company.  He could see it plainly in the petrified moonlight.

When next he opened one eye and looked, dawn was at hand, and the poor little bird was still
there.  When at last, with shoulders humped and feathers puffed, our thrush flew down to feed
in the first pale-gold glimmer of very-much-diluted sunlight, the hedge-sparrow did not move.
Now, in opening his wings, possibly from a vague idea of frightening the hedge-sparrow away
from the magic swept circle on the lawn close by, and its bread, the thrush brushed heavily
against that hedge-sparrow, so that--oh, horror!--it fell, or swung over backwards, rather,
and hung head downwards, swaying slightly, like a toy acrobat on a wire, before it fell, so
rigidly and so stiffly immovable that one expected it to shatter to pieces like glass as it
hit the ground.  It did not, however.  But it did not matter.  The hedge-sparrow was quite,
quite dead before it fell, frozen stiff and stark in the night.  And none of the other birds
seemed to care.  Why should they?  Such a fate might overtake themselves.

The thrush, much tucked up, but still with some fight in him, was late. Big flocks of peewits
or green plover--he could see them between the spruce-boughs--had gone drifting by, winking
like floating silver, high overhead, bound westward; and skylarks were passing over the garden,
one by one, heading southwest towards the warm, and chortling to each other as they went. 
Starlings--some of them with extraordinarily bright-yellow dagger-beaks, and some with dull
beaks--were before him, squabbling and sparring over the bread on the lawn.  A robin dropped
a little chain of melancholy silvery notes, and a great titmouse bugled clearly, "Ting-ling!
Ting-ling!  Ting-ling!"  Some one opened a window of the house giving on to the lawn, and the
last house-fly blundered out into the cold air; and a company of gnats--surely the most hardy
of insects--was dancing in the pale sunlight by the summer-house, above the snow.

The opening of the window had erupted the starlings into the surrounding trees, there to whistle
and indulge in a "shiveree," such as is dear to the heart of the excitable, social starling.
And our thrush was standing motionless in the middle of the swept circle on the lawn almost
at once.  No one saw him go there.  Indeed, unless the observer looked closely, no one saw
him at all, for even then he was, unless he moved, difficult to see, and, whatever had been
his custom before, in those days he moved but little.

He had come at even to a garden given over to hen-chaffinches--no cocks, as we said--but at
dawn, or, rather, his later hour for rising, he found the garden given over to song-thrushes,
all pale beside him, all slim, all snaky of build--Continental song-thrushes, most like, and
the same only come to those parts in very hard weather, for they come a long way.

Our song-thrush, standing on his one leg, looked at them with one shrewd eye.  There were two
of them in the snowless circle on the lawn, which had been swept clear of the snow, that was
now deep, before he was up, and had also been replenished with bread.  Two thrushes sat in
the spruce-fir, and one on the top of the summer-house, and every jack of them was ravenous.
He could expect no mercy from them.  They must live, if they could, and there was not enough
food for all.  And he asked no mercy himself, either.  Still, it was long odds.

Then he showed that he, even a bird, knew the laws of strategy, the essence of which is surprise.
He surprised everybody by suddenly charging at the thrush on the lawn near him with a murderous
ferocity that took one's breath away.  It certainly would have taken away that of the other
song-thrush, if our friend had not knocked it out of him by the impact.  By all the laws of
precedence, of course, any one of those others ought to have sent him, with his one leg, into
headlong retreat by merely threatening.  But our friend was not concerned with the laws of
precedence, it seemed.  He became a law unto himself, and a most amazing "character" to boot.
Also, he fought like several demons, and, by sheer reckless fury, removed that dumbfounded
rival of his from the lawn in twenty-one hectic seconds.

Then he fed--it was enough only to glance, just glance, at the other thrushes and the chaffinches,
after that astounding exhibition of his character.  He fed, and, after he had stuffed full,
he stood still a little way off.

This was the signal for two of the thrushes in the spruce-fir to flap down to the bread.  One
got there.  The other saw what was coming, and turned hastily back.  The one that got there
snatched up a piece of bread.  But he never ate it.  Something hit him on the side.  It felt
like the point of a skewer, but it was our thrush's beak, really, and by the time he had recovered
from that blow he found himself so busy saving his eyesight that he was glad enough to drop
his bread and go.

That, however, was not enough for our thrush.  He appeared to "see red," and with a terrible
cruel, relentless "redness."  He followed the retreating foe to the spruce-fir, flying heavily
and awkwardly by reason of his smashed leg.  He perched beside him on the branch he settled
upon, nearly overbalancing, and perilously swaying and wobbling, with wings wildly flapping,
and he drove that thrush to another branch, with such a rain of pecks that the feathers flew.
Nor was even that enough.  He followed up the attack, and hustled the thrush from that other
branch, so that he flew down the snowed-up road. Then our cripple, spinning in a whirl of snow,
hurled himself upon the other thrush in the tree, and drove him out of it into the road.

But even that did not suffice him, for devils seemed to have possessed him, and the thought
of opposition sent him crazy.  He blundered into the privet-hedge, and unearthed a half-frozen
confrère, who fled, squawking peevishly, leaving one tail-feather in our friend's beak; and
finally he flew down to the road.

In the road, he first of all buried his face in snow, then fell on his side, deep snow not
being, he discovered, an ideal medium in which to get about on one leg.  During that performance
his rivals could have abolished him five times over if they had had the heart to unite.  But
they seemed to think otherwise, and had not the heart for anything. They sat still, with that
helpless abandon that afflicts fowls and other birds in disaster, and they seemed about to
starve practically on the spot, if left alone.

Our thrush, however, did not leave them alone.  They were a direct threat to his only line
of communication with life, so to speak--namely, food.  Wherefore, either they or he must go.
Soon he found that cart-ruts make convenient roads for the birds in the snow, or perhaps it
was the chaffinches, who were following one another in lines along the cart-ruts, who showed him.

Then and there, in the road, our thrush seemed to go berserk.  He landed upon the thrush nearest
to him, spread-eagled and hammering like a feathered devil.  There was a whirl of brown feathers
and finely powdered snow for about ten seconds, at the end of which time that other thrush
detached himself and fled, oven as his conqueror hurled himself upon the next bird.

There were two here, side by side, but neither was quick enough to parry our friend's lightning
lunges, after he had beaten down their guard with his wings; and they, too, got up and winged
into the leaden, frowning sky.  The others did not wait.  They had seen all they wanted to,
apparently, and would take no part in the play.  They faded out among the drifting snowflakes,
over the still, white fields, and our thrush was left to the lawn, and the bread, and the swarming
chaffinches, whom he easily kept aloof, and--yes, there was no getting away from it--the one
thrush on the summer-house who, you will note, had never moved.  But when he looked he found
that thrush was not on the summer-house, but on the lawn, eating bread; and when he flew down
to the lawn to investigate--he flew and landed very clumsily--he made a discovery that seemed
to surprise him; or did he already know it? Anyway, the thrush on the lawn was a lady, and--well,
what would you? The cripple balanced as well as he could, and looked foolish.  It was all he
could do.

The day passed swiftly, and faded out in blinding snow.  Most of the time the cripple stood
motionless, watching his companion and guarding his swept circle, and, as often as he could,
he fed.  And neither then nor at any other time, except once when the gardener nearly trod
upon him before he would move, did he utter a sound.  The last glimmer of day showed him still
at his post, motionless, all but invisible.  But he roosted, as a matter of fact, in the privet-hedge,
on the south side of the summer-house, and this time he was not alone.

The day had been trying enough, with its fights and its three cats, which passed within reach
of him, and could have slain him--for his injuries made him slow to get under way--if they
had not failed to see him, because so still.  The night, however, was a clouded terror.

Certainly he went to bed--if one may so call it--full, if not warm exactly; but that was the
only advantage.  It snowed with ghastly, relentless steadiness, and it blew like the hacking
of sharp knives.

But through it all, because full fed, the cripple, with all his handicap, and his lady companion
lived; lived to see the hard dawn pale tardily; lived to watch the kind gardener--under strict
orders assuredly, or he would never have done it--sweep a space clear on the lawn and spread
food for the birds; lived to ruffle his feathers and fly down; and lived to see the thaw which
came that afternoon, when the warm sou'-wester came romping over the land, and winter's last
stand was overcome by the forces of spring, and all the wild breathed a sigh of relief and
went abroad gayly to feed.

But the cripple lived to see other things.  For there came a day, about a week later, when
our cripple, who had been "keeping company" all the time with his lady friend, heard the whole
dawn awaken to a sudden mighty chorus of thrush song.  I don't know why they all chose to burst
into song thus as at a given signal, but they did, and the effect upon the cripple and his
companion was curious.  He had just landed upon the top of the summer-house on his one leg,
in a particularly awkward and unbalanced manner, and he perched, listening, as if rooted to
the spot, and with something nearly approaching horror in his eyes, it seemed to me.

The female bird listened, too, for about a minute, and then, ignoring the poor cripple as if
he had never existed, hopped towards the spruce-fir--atop of which a particularly fine and
strong-voiced songster was warbling--as if she were drawn by ropes.  And--oh, horror!--the
songster came down to her.

The cripple never uttered a sound, not a song, or a call, or a sign. He hurled himself straight
at this new rival like a bolt shot from a crossbow, and he fought.  My word, how he fought!
But this new antagonist was no half-frozen, half-starved Continental song thrush. He was a
Britisher, thick-set, bullet-headed, thick-necked, who had wintered, perhaps, in the south
of Ireland or farther, and he fought like a Trojan.

All up and down the lawn the fight raged, and in and out of the hedges, into the mountain ash
and out again, down to the ground and up again; but in the end--ah, but it could have only
one end!--the Britisher was on the top of the summer-house, literally shouting his song of
triumph. And the cripple was on the ground at the foot of the hedge, beneath the spruce-fir,
lying on his side, blood-stained and panting.  Nobody saw him creep away.  Nobody cared--certainly
not his lady acquaintance, who was too busy receiving glad eyes from the conqueror.

Also, nobody saw him die.  Yet next morning he was dead, stiff and still on the ground beside
the summer-house.  Some think that it was the injuries he received in his last great fight
that killed him.  I do not.  I could find no wounds upon him sufficiently severe to sustain
that theory.  I think he died of a broken heart.  Don't you?

VII

"SET A THIEF"----

Cob arrived in a snowstorm of unparalleled ferocity.  He came upon extended vans sixty-nine
inches from tip to tip, which he seemed as if he were never going to flap.  All black above,
all white below, he was. The fact was worth noting, because, as seen from below, he looked
neither black nor any other hue, but just indiscriminate dark, unless he swerved against the
little light, and then his white "hull" shone like silver.

In his calm tacking, in his effortless play, in his superb mastery of the furious gale, one
realized that here was one of Nature's masterpieces.  He arrested the gaze with his serenity,
and in his majesty of flight marked himself as a bird apart.

Here was a bird accustomed to power, to respect, and to wield fear, as a king might do; but
he was no king, even among birds.  He was a great black-backed gull, immense, austere, and
cruel, with eyes as cold as the waves whose glitter they reflected, and a heart as implacable
as the storm that cherished it; sea-rover, pillager, pirate, swashbuckler, son of the storm
in whose fierce buffetings he rejoiced, master of the gale upon whose fury he flourished--the
very spirit of the ocean's frontiers, arrayed in the spotless uniform of the sea, sailing under
her bold colors.

And then, as he suddenly came, the watcher, had there been one, would have looked at him expectantly,
for an eagle, bristling with weapons, so to speak, fierce-eyed, mighty, and scowling, came
flapping heavily across the white-fretted bay.  There is expression in birds, and most have
their feelings and their character stamped upon their whole body. But there was no expression
in Cob.  His cold eyes continued to stare with steady stoniness, his vast vans to waft an occasional
shallow, lazy quarter-flap, his spotless head to peer down at times.  Once only, as the real
king of the birds, on his course, drew very near, so that you could hear the deep, dry "hough!
hough!" of the powerful wings, did Cob open his red-stained--as it were blood--yellow beak,
and give utterance--one could call it no more--and so instantly close his beak again and revert
to his absolute expressionlessness that one had a job to realize what, or who, in all that
vast scene, had spoken.

"I'm-Great-Black-Back!" he said very quietly, quickly, gratingly, and tersely; and then, as
if expecting an answer, added, "Eh?" in a hollow undertone.

The eagle's imperial head jerked round as he flew, and he shot a stabbing, sheathed glance
at the great sea-bird, as a king might at a man in a crowd who begins to fumble at his hip-pocket.
But, save for that, he took no further notice, and beat on with his terrific, piston-like,
regular wing-beats; and the gull, that speckless, dazzling, hardened, hard giant, laughed--laughed,
I say, softly and to himself, hoarsely and insolently: "How-how-how-how!"  It was as if he
laughed in derision.

And then a strange thing happened.  From the opposite stupendous cliffs, draped in snow, bejeweled
with icicles, frowning and desolate, an ominous black shape flung itself furiously, and made
straight for the eagle, barking hoarsely with rage as it came.  Another hollow bark followed,
and a second evil ebony form hurled down from the tottering cliff-top, and flapped towards
the eagle in the path of the first. Bark echoed bark above the deep mutter of the breakers,
and the echoes along the cliffs answered both uncannily and mockingly.

They were a raven, disturbed from her wool-quilted nest, and her mate; but if they had been
hobgoblins straight from an evil dream, they could not, in that immense, grim setting, have
been much more impressive.

The great black-backed gull said no more, but wheeled on as if nothing had happened.

The eagle said nothing, and tried to beat on as if nothing had happened, too.  He did not succeed,
for the ravens who had been addressing him most particularly soon addressed themselves personally
to him; and before he knew just how it all came about, they had summoned a quite amazing and
unexpected aerial acrobatic power, and were shooting and diving, striking and flapping, about
his regal head in a manner that even he could not pretend any longer to ignore.  No one, not
even a king of all the birds, feels comfortable under the imminent possibility of losing an
eye--and such a haughty, wonderful eye, too.  Nor did the eagle.  And he showed it.  One presumes
he might have abolished the pair--one or both--but the eagle never let on what he presumed.
What he knew was that he had nothing to gain in a fight with such super-hooligans, and everything
to lose, for one wound only might mean a dead eagle viâ starvation and a dead raven--what was
a dead raven worth, anyway, to him, or anybody else?

Therefore the eagle changed his mind about continuing his course, which would have taken him
above the ravens' nest.  He did it grandly, and without giving the impression that the ravens
had anything to do with it--he could have squeezed the life out of them with one awful handshake,
if his heart had been as big as his claws.  But they had something to do with it.  And they
knew it.  So did Cob, who laughed again, hoarsely and as one appreciating a joke, while he
wheeled and wheeled over the following waves, seeing all things and never appearing to see
anything.

Then at last, when the king of all the birds had sunk, like a speck of floating burnt paper,
away over the far, white-mantled hills, the ravens suddenly evaporated into nowhere.  Probably
no one had seen them go except Cob, and Cob was by now a lonely, dwindling speck away over
the restless ocean.  Then he was not.  He was coming back, swinging along with great, easy,
shallow half-flaps, so sublimely lazy that he seemed merely to swim through the gale.  But
he covered distance; there was speed as well as majesty in his flight, for all that.

In a very short time he was above the cliffs, silent, sinister, almost stealthy.  One of the
ravens came back suddenly, diving over the crest, half-demented with anxiety to cover her eggs
from that stony stare of the sea-rover; and Cob, seeing where she had come from, surrendered
himself to the gale, hurtled down-wind, veered, tacked, circled, rocking, and came down in
a series of his oblique plunges--smack-bang into the middle of a gory dinner-party, consisting
of the male raven, five gray or hooded crows, and one silver herring-gull, feasting upon the
carcass of a dead sheep.

Every head went up, every eye blinked, every wing half-opened, every beak shut tight as Cob,
whom everybody had thought to be miles away by that time, threw forward his wings, umbrella-fashion,
flung them up, hat-fashion, fanning wide his tail, dropped his giant webbed feet, and came
to anchor with a rush.  Then he folded those wonderful pinions of his, foot by rustling foot,
stared stonily at the amazed, mute company around him, and, throwing back his immaculate, smooth,
low-browed, spotless head, laughed to the winds, hoarsely, loudly, wildly--a rude, baleful,
transport of mirth:

"How-how-how-how-how!"

The raven did not laugh.  He had to feed his sitting wife--not counting his big self--in that
bitter weather, and he was pluming himself upon having turned the eagle from sight of this
gift banquet from Providence as well as his nest.  The gray crows saw no cause for merriment,
remembering how big the great gull was, and how small are these little, long-wooled, black-faced
hill sheep.  Moreover, sheep do not often oblige by getting turned turtle in a cleft of rock,
and being unable to right themselves before poor, starving, wild hunters--I won't swear who,
but it was not the raven this time--can come and peck their eyes out.

Cob looked at them again--all five of the gray crows sitting staring straight down their own
black gouge-beaks, hunched, cold, out-at-heels, and dejected.  Then he laughed again--burst
into another wild, jeering fit of merriment, and fell to work.

First of all, he pointed out to the raven--his beak was the pointer--that he was sitting upon
the choicest portion of that sheep, and must make way therefrom instantly.  Next, he turned
his head and looked--only looked--at a gray crow that had presumed, upon the turning of his
broad, black back, to recommence feeding, and that hooded crow moved one yard in one second--out
of reach.  And next, Cob, who apparently loved discipline and cherished good manners, started
his banquet, and allowed the others to start theirs.

But it was an unholy feast.  Cob tugged and tore like a butcher without any knives.  At times
he nearly fell backwards, when the meat gave way; at times he bolted, and gulped, and choked
horribly; at times he was nearly standing upon his head, and at other times upon his tail;
and, in case the others should find the woolly outside, where they alone could feed, too easy,
he was continually breaking off, to rush--a red-headed demon from hell now--at the raven, or
glare at the crows and remove them yards, as if his eyes could kill.  As for the herring-gull,
he raced and danced in a crazy circle round his giant clansman, apparently smitten with delirium
at the luscious titbits he was obliged to watch vanishing down Cob's bright throat.

The raven, however, was growing desperate.  He was under contract to Fate to feed his wife.
She would freeze there on her nest in the snow among the icicle-studded ledges else.  And every
time he had got hold of a big enough dainty to tug free and fly off with, Cob had cut in and
collared the said morsel.  As a matter of fact, friend raven was a better carver than the sea-pirate,
had a beak better suited for the grisly purpose.  Finally, the black one got hold of a piece
of meat, and did not let go.  He hung on, and, before anybody realized that he had moved, Cob's
yellow-and-red-painted bill--nearly all red now--had closed upon that raven's neck.  There
was one wild, asthmatical croak from the raven, a whirl of sturdy black and overshadowing black-and-white
wings, and the raven was jerked clean head-over-heels, where, among the heather, he lay for
a brief second, kicking ignominiously, on his sable back.

Here the crows fled to strategic positions upon bowlders, waist-deep in heather, hard by, expecting
a like fate, and leaving the herring-gull to gobble up what he could in the confusion, and
risk his life in the process, when suddenly, above the beating of wings and the hiss of wind,
all distinctly heard, and jumped at, the sound of a single, horrible, instantaneous, metallic
clash.

Cob's agonized yell, the clash itself, and the whir and rush of wings, as every bird there
present literally flung itself into the air, seemed really, though of course they were not,
coincident--such is the quickness with which these wild creatures act.  But Cob alone remained.

He stopped in mid-spring horribly, and suddenly, as if a Hand had reached up and plucked him
back.  For a second his wonderful wings beat and beat tremendously, frenziedly, with a noise
you could hear all up the hill; then he fell back in one demented, frenzied mix up of bashing,
smashing pinions, legs, tail, and whirling feathers.

That clash, which had jarred Cob's frame from head to hind-toe, was a trap, alias a gin, alias
a clam, and the rack of man's Inquisition of the wild.  He had stepped upon it; it had gone
off, and caught him by the right leg, and, being anchored by a chain, had refused to let him
go when he sought to remove himself, trap and all.

What followed during the next minute or two it would scarcely be fair to so fine a bird to
print.  Moreover, it was unnice to behold. Wild-folk have a habit often of going temporarily
insane when they first find themselves trapped, because the trap represents to them the most
supreme, the most unbearable, of all terrors--loss of freedom; and freedom is to them more
than life, especially to birds, and more especially still to those whose lives are dedicated
to the wild, free sea.

At the end of that time Cob lay exhausted upon his side, one mighty pinion pathetically trailing
in the snow, his beak open, his whole jet and spotless white body shaken and convulsed with
pantings that were almost sobs.  He seemed in danger of dying there and then upon the spot,
with sheer, sickening horror or a broken heart.

The herring-gull was a silver line--about as big as a thrip--to seaward.  The gray crows climbed
the heavens to landward, like flies that climb a window-pane.  Only the raven had not gone, quite.

The raven was a bird, of course, and every bird has got to do its duty. There can be no shirking.
His duty was to supply food to keep the fires of life burning in his mate as she sat upon her
icy nest.  His duty was to see that his eggs, their eggs, hatched out; and with him the motto
was: "The end justifies the means."  This bird, this sea-rover, this big pirate, alone stood
between him and the discharge of duty.  There was no other way, no other food; he had searched.
Wherefore, the raven stayed; he knew all about traps, few better, and he stayed, waiting, if
it please you, for Cob to--die!

But Cob would not oblige.  He had not got a broken and crushed leg, as the raven possibly expected.
He was not injured, as he should have been, according to program; only puffed.  The mercy of
Allah had seen to it that some teeth of that instrument of vile torture that had hold of him
were broken off, and that his leg should have been caught in the gap thus formed.  Moreover,
the trap had not been looked after; it was rusty, and did not shut quite properly.  The spring
was weak, or some grit had got in, or something, and a smart rat would have got out of it easily,
but a rat is not a gull, and knows too much.

Thereafter, nothing happened for a long while.  Cob's first delirium seemed to have spent him,
and perhaps taught him how much a leg can hurt when tugged by the full lift of sixty-nine-inch
wings, especially when one tries to whirl round upon it when it cannot turn.

The raven sat on his lichen-decorated, snow-draped bowlder, hands in pockets, so to speak,
abominably untidy, with a pessimistic hunch of the shoulders, but a light in his eyes, a strangely
malignant, devilishly roguish leer, that belied his appearance.  Perhaps he was waiting to
see if Cob during his struggles obligingly touched off any further deadly surprises that might
lie hidden in the vicinity.  One never knows.  He had seen a gray crow double-catch himself
in two traps lying close to one another--once.

Nothing happening, however, that raven presently sailed in on his fine work.  He broke his
neutrality with a sudden dry rustle of wings, and clumsily half-hopped, half-heavily napped,
down to Cob, lying there still and silent, but very much awake, upon the snow.  He almost seemed
to be rubbing his hands, or, rather, his claws, that ebon rascal.  This was, indeed, a game
after his own heart.

Cob never moved when the raven arrived.  I suppose he knew all about ravens, and what one may
expect from them.  He only stared at him with one cold eye, a tense, lop-sided stare; and he
mouthed a little--if one may be permitted the expression--with his beak, like a man moistening
his lips.

The raven looked him over critically, leeringly, insolently, with a hateful air of ownership.
Then the raven sharpened the gouge thing which he called his beak--wheep-wheep--upon a stone,
as birds do, and tightened his feathers, as if almost visibly tucking up his sleeves for--well,
for the job.

Then he tweaked Cob's tail, apparently just to see how much alive he was.  But Cob did not
move, beyond drawing one webbed leg--the free one--up under him.

Then the raven dug him under the wing--punched him in the ribs, so to speak.  But Cob did nothing
more than cringe--cringe from head to hind-toe, like a worm.

Then suddenly, startlingly suddenly, with the full stroke, the dreaded pickax blow, of all
the ravens, he let drive straight at Cob's clear, shining eye--the left one, with which Cob,
with his head twisted, had all along been regarding him.  He had disclosed his hand, that raven.
It was devil's work.

Till that moment Cob had never moved, as we have said.  Save for his one eye and his quivering,
one would scarcely have known that he lived. That was his game, perhaps.  Who can tell?  For
a stolid, slow-thinking gull may have, in his way, just as deep, or low, a cunning as a brilliant-brained
raven.  Anyhow, in that fiftieth of a second allowed, just when it seemed as if nothing could
save his eye, Cob's head snicked round and up, and he slid the enemy's beak down off his own
with as neat a parry as ever you saw.  And he did more.  He caught hold of the said raven's
beak, got a grip on beak in beak, and once having got hold, he kept hold.  This was nothing
new to him.  It was his way--one of his ways--of fighting rival great black-backed gulls. 
But it was new to the raven, and he had not previously thought out any proper counter to it.
(There is a counter, I think.)  Result--caught raven as well as caught gull.

Then it was that raven's turn to go mad, and dance a paralytic kan-kan; but he could not get
any change out of that gull.  Cob hung on almost as well as the trap hung on to him, and far
more twistfully.  He was quite at home, of course.  He had been brought up to this sort of
thing.  It was the official regulation gull way of fighting under set rules, but he could rarely
get any other bird than a gull to fight with him like it.  It was not the raven's way of fighting,
though, and I think he felt himself in a trap.  He certainly acted like a bird out of its senses,
while the gull, flapping hugely, and forgetting, in the excitement, his own bondage, gradually
forced the raven's head back and back over his back, till that raven was in the unenviable
position of staring over his own back at his own tail, upon which he was ignominiously sitting.
Also, his neck was half-dislocated, and he was nearly choking.  And about this time it began
to dawn upon him that it did not pay in the wild to monkey with great black-backed gulls, even
trapped ones.  He swore, as well as he could, in a gurgling croak. Then----

Clash!

Horrors upon diabolical horrors!  Another trap?

The same ghastly thought flashed to both birds' brains at the same moment, and both literally
sprang bodily up into the gale in one maddened leap, both forgetting all else in the panic
to be gone.

Both stopped at the same instant, with a jerk that nearly unhinged every bone in their bodies.
Both yelled with terror at the identical moment.

Both were released--as by the cutting of a string--at the same fraction of time, and both hurtled
aloft at the same fear-blinded, rocket-like speed.

But both had not been caught by the same kind of trap.

It was the jerk that had freed Cob from the really quite light hold, as we have already explained,
of the jaws of the steel trap.

And it was the jerk that had torn out some of the raven's tail-feathers, and left them in the
jaws of the--gray, old, hill fox.

And it was the fox who was standing all alone, watching, with oblique eyes, the two great birds
fast dissolving with every desperate, stampeding wing-beat into the hurrying cloud-wrack and
the wild seascape--in opposite directions.  He had made a good stalk, but had sprung a little
short, had brer fox.

Upon a day, weeks later, we find the raven, whose young had left the nest, stolidly soaring
over a small, flat island, golden with furze, purple with heather, pale-rose chiffon where
it was covered with sea-pinks.

In addition to these, only one other hue, beside green, was there upon that island gem floating
on the jade-green sea, and that was a patch of black and white!  It flashed to the eye of the
raiding rogue-raven, and he altered course towards it, when it turned into a female great black-backed
gull, running, literally racing, to her nest, which the raven could now see, with its two big,
buff, dark-splashed eggs.

Down flopped the giant gull upon her treasure, and began yelling, "How-how-how-how!" at the
top of her voice.

But the island seemed empty of life, and her yelling useless.

Down dropped the raven in front of her.

Down winnowed the hen-raven at the back of her.

And, both together, they approached.  And all the time the great black-backed gull continued
to yell, "How-how-how-how!"

At last, when he had got close enough, the cock-raven lunged at her, or, rather, underneath
her.  She parried his stroke, and--the hen-raven lunged.  Nothing now, she knew, could save
her eggs, unless she rose to fight the cock-raven.  The hen-raven then ran in.  She only required
a second in which to ruin each egg, but she never got it.

Nobody saw the avalanche coming, but everybody heard it arrive.  It was of snow-white, and
it was of jet-black, and it knocked the cock-raven one way, and sent the hen-raven, picking
up her skirts, as it were, and fleeing, the other.  And the name of the avalanche was Cob.

I fancy he considered that he bore a grudge against that cock bandit-raven.  Perhaps in dreams
he could still feel that trap on his leg.  Who knows?  He certainly used to wake up with outcries,
and he equally certainly made that cock-raven shy of that island for evermore.

VIII

THE WHERE IS IT?

No one would have thought of looking for any living beast in the raffle of dried twigs and
tamarisk "leaves" between the crawling, snake-like roots of the feathery tamarisks if it had
not been for the noise.  The noise was unmistakable, as the noise of a fight always is; and
the only other living thing near the spot, a tiny, tip-tailed, brown wren--a little ball of
feathers, dainty as you please, and all alone there, and out of place down by the terrible,
snow-covered, wind-tortured estuary shore--made shift to remove herself, making remarks--wrens
can't help saying what they feel--as she flitted.

Then the combatants fell out--literally.  Up from the solid earth between the twisted roots
they seemed to come, but that proved the art of one of them in concealing his front-door from
the curious, and down the bank of the sea-wall, over and over and over, squeaking the most
murderous language, and grappling like pocket-devils--tumbled a little jet-black and a little
dark-brown beast.

They continued the duel upon the dry gravel below--the finest and the whitest gravel ever you
did see--and they would apparently have gone on for goodness knows how long if a gray-white,
thin, worn post a couple of yards away had not turned into a heron and stalked an ungainly
stalk towards them.

Then they fell apart, and one of them, at any rate--the brown one--ran away in the shape of
a water-vole--water-"rat," if you will--the heron making spear-lunges at him with his bill
as he ungainlily skipped at the other's tail all the way up the bank.  The other fighter, the
black one, could not rightly be said to have turned into anything very much--at least, not
anything that any one could swear to.  It just seemed as if a dark blur whizzed about--more
bird-like than beast-like--around the astonished and prancing heron, and then into nowhere.
It was like watching a blue-bottle in a tumbler, and very extraordinary.  The heron never even
professed to follow it or lunge at it.  He preferred the water-vole, whose agility was not
too fast to see.

At the place where it had come from, the mouth of the hole, it stopped--this beast that could
move quicker than eye could follow--stopped so suddenly and completely that its change from
almost lightning motion to stony motionlessness in the fraction of a second was nearly as amazing
as its first marvelous exhibition.  It stopped, I say, and became a--a rat.

To nine hundred and ninety-nine people out of a thousand, the word "rat" conveys only one impression.
This rat did not fulfill that impression.  In fact, there is more than one kind of rat, and
though fate and their fathers' Kismet has cursed them all with a name of shame, they are not
all the kind of people that made it so.  There is the foreigner, the invader, the common brown
rat, who is accursed; there is the old English black rat, whom the accursed one has nearly
wiped out into little more than a ghost; and there is the water-rat, who is not a rat, but
a vole, and would thank you to remember the fact.

And this rat was a black rat, as black as jet, shark-jawed, star-eyed, elfin-eared, snake-tailed,
lean, long-legged, and graceful--a very greyhound among the rats.  He was there, in that dancing-floor
of the winds by the estuary, because no common or sewer rats were there.  They were anathema
to him, and they were worse--death in many horrible forms.  He had been there all the summer,
all the autumn, and all the----  No, by whiskers! he was not going to remain there all the
winter.  He had his limit, and he hated cold; and here, down by the flat, sodden, mud-choked
shore of the estuary, it was so cold that if you didn't jolly well mind what you were up to
and keep your tummy always full, you went to sleep, and--never woke up any more.

A little pile of mussel, winkle, and shore-crab shells, and the backbone of what had been a
stranded fish, close to the mouth of the hole, showed the rat's account-book to date; but there
was a line to be drawn even in this trade.  That dawn--if you could call the gray dark of a
snowstorm dawn--he, wondrously adventurous, had gone shell-fish collecting, away out upon the
freezing wet mud-ooze.  He had got three mussels; a muddy face; muddier feet; nearly an eye
pecked out by a mighty, great black-backed gull; three chivyings from herring-gulls; one nip
from a crab who ought to have been dead; two winkles under big stones that took half-an-hour
to shift; one dead pigmy shrew--length two inches--with a hole in its skull, no brains, and
a horrible smell; nearly his life removed by the swoop of a kestrel falcon and the javelin-stab
of a heron's beak; and twenty minutes' hard cleaning to remove the mud-stains that were not
properly off--to his nice liking--yet.  And, to add to that, he had no sooner finished than
he found that some clumsy fool of a water-rat--vole, I mean--with a mania for mining, had run
a shaft into his hole, and brought the whole roof crumbling down upon his scrupulously neat
and tidy nest of fine hay and carefully shredded rush--the only approximately warm corner he
possessed in all that biting cold--so that days of labor would not repair the silly damage;
and he had had to enter into a free fight with and turn the fool out, nearly losing his life,
for the fourth time that short, dark, bitter day, in the process.  And now he had to clean
himself all over again!

No wonder he was fed-up, and decided to quit.  He loved the dank marsh, the brackish channels,
the long, lone wind blowing through the tamarisks, and the smell--salt, seaweed, mud, and fish--of
it all; but in this--weather, when the cold here, even in shelter, was greater than the cold
in any other spot--and the unchecked wind cut like swords of ice--he realized that one must
be an eider-duck or an Iceland gull, a northern diver or an Arctic owl, to stand it, and he
was none of these. Wherefore, though the dusk had made the dull day only a little more dark
as yet, and the pink, luminous frost-haze still hung in the west, he called down his hole to
his wife--his one and only wife, but that was not his fault--and quitted.

Ten minutes later you behold our black rat--if you had eyes quick enough, but it was a matter
of momentary glimpses, anyway--trekking up a ditch.  You have pretty well got to take my word
for it, because, though sometimes you saw him for the half of a second, mostly you didn't,
and couldn't tell whether there was his wife only, or he only, or both.  Really there were
both, but our black friend with the embarrassingly, the abnormally, long tail and the genteel
head--Mr. Mus rattus on Sundays, if you please, and in nowise to be confused with that canaille,
Citizen Mus decumanus, the common brown rat--had not the slightest intention that any one should
see him, if he could help it.  His wife might be trusted to look out for herself.  And for
this reason, perhaps, his march was a progress to wonder at.

Did a flock of wild-duck come over from the sea with whistling wings, he did not so much get
under the over-hanging grass as be there.  Did a "gaggle" of wild-geese go by high over, clamoring
like hounds, he went out like a blown candle.  Did a party of teal--for it was the magic hour
of "flight," when all wildfowl shift their quarters to feed, or not to feed--fairly hissing
with speed, like masterless bullets, dash over, he--well, he was not before you could realize
that he had moved.

Then up and flew round them a shape, and the name of that shape was death.  It might have been
a gull with hawk-like form.  It might have been a hawk in gull-like light-gray uniform.  And
it might have been an owl with gull-like dress and hawk-like lines.  Whatever it was, it was
clipper-built, swift, and in fighting trim.  As a matter of fact, it was neither gull nor hawk
nor owl, but a harrier, a hen-harrier--that's its name, not its sex, for it was a cock--and
the same is a half-way house, so to speak, between hawk and owl.  Possibly because they are
crepuscular, harriers may be thought more rare than they are.  This one was "crepusculing,"
and--the black rat did not like it.  They had met before, and Mr. Ratus had gained a lively
dislike for this hawk-owl combination, greater than his respect--which itself was not small--for
owl or hawk.

Seeing nowhere to go, and nothing to hide in when he got there, our Mr. Ratus shifted from
one spot to the other when the harrier made his cat-like pounce--yes, he was something cat-like,
too--and had the pleasure of seeing the harrier's uninviting talons grab a clawful of grass,
which, by all powers of judgment, ought to have been black rat's fur.

A mere hawk, or even an owl, might have considered this rebuff enough, but not the harrier.
He wafted himself ten feet aloft on his long narrow vans, and, flapping owl-like, or almost
butterfly-like, began to beat, and the beating of the harrying harrier, up and down, is one
of the most trying ordeals, for the game beaten for, in the wild.

Mrs. Ratus sat where she was, he presumed, playing the same bluff.

But both were without cover, and the black rat, I fear, devoutly hoped that she would be fool
enough to move and give herself away first; whilst she, on her part, was cursing him for many
kinds of a fool for starting their "flitting" before it was dark.

While she sat and froze--in both senses--however, the black rat, rigid as a beast cut out of
coal, with one bright, shining eye upon the harrier beating up and down, was probing the dusk
with the other eye. And presently he thought he saw his chance.  He would have had to move,
anyway, I fancy, for the strain of sitting there bang in the open was unendurable.  His nerves
would have snapped.  So he went to his chance--a hole in the bank of the ditch.

I say he went, but I only take it to be so because he got there.  One could not actually see
him go.  One had only an idea, quite an uncertain idea, that something, most like a swift bird,
had passed up the ditch, and one could not swear even to that.  It seemed impossible that the
flying something had been a four-legged animal.

It was the black rat.  Nor did he go straight.  He went, if I may so put it, every way at once,
ending up with a merry-go-round dance with death--the harrier was pouncing savagely--round
a tuft of grass, at such a speed that he looked exactly like the rim of a quickly spun bicycle-wheel--a
halo, that is to say, and nothing else.

And then--he was crouched, panting, inside the hole, wondering whether his heart or his lungs
would be the first to burst.  And then?  Oh, and then he--cleaned himself, naturally and of
course.  What else did you expect?  He was the original black rat of Old England, and one of
the cleanest animals on earth.

Mrs. Ratus, having vanished past finding while the hunt to the hole was on, presently scented
her lord out, when the night had come and the harrier was gone, and together, starting like
antelope at every hint of a sound, they traveled up the ditch, and up the bank of a stream
that the ditch folded into.

Once an owl--the nomad, short-eared owl of the marshes--let forth a hoot that would have sent
a nervous lady into "astericks," and sent them into no-where, as if it had detonated a charge
of that lively mystery called T.N.T. under their dainty feet.  Once, just as they were lapping
like dogs at the edge of the ice that was conspiring to span the brook, an otter shot up his
head--jaws wide and dripping--almost under their long and pointed noses, and they, with one
accord, and driven by their long tails acting as a spring, leapt simply into space. At any
rate, they could not be followed by mortal eye, wherever they did leap to.

And once they met a wandering cat.  And that cat seemed to go mad, for she shifted about the
steep bank of that stream, and up, and about--here she swore because the spikes pricked her--and
down a holly-bush, as if she had got a rocket tied to her tail.  She had not, of course.  She
was hunting black rats.  I suppose she saw them.  If so, she was the only person who did, and
I feel sure that, instant as she was, when she was up the bank or the holly-bush they were
down it, and when she was down they were up.  Finally, when her lost temper had completely
run her out of breath, she slouched away, spitting like a worn sparking-plug, and very much
disgusted.  And--the black rats cleaned themselves!

That night was not a profitable one.  The shell-fish of the estuary were gone, and there was
little instead on the stream--only snow, and the snow fell quietly at intervals throughout
the night, hiding everything.  Rats, too, are creatures of warmth.  They hate cold as much
as the writer, and these two black rats became very miserable. They had no home, and did not
know where to go; and, save for a few berries, they had nothing to eat.  Mercifully, they had
plenty to drink, and that is an item with rats, who die in a very few hours if they cannot
get a drink.

A bitter, dull paling of the sky, which by courtesy we will call dawn, found them cleaning
again, with their hand-like forepaws, exactly like cats, inside a water-vole burrow.  The owner
had been out, bark-chipping, all night--it was the only thing he could find to keep body and
life from parting company--and was not over-pleased, on his return, to find that he had company
at home.  A short two-round contest ensued, during which the water-vole must have felt as if
he had taken on a bit of black lightning.  Then the water-vole went away, somewhat bewildered,
to turn some smaller water-vole out of his winter bed; and the rats curled themselves up, heads
between hindlegs, tail encircling all, with only their ever-ready, elfin ears poking out to
give the alarm, and they slept.  And, by the way, it was a saying in the wild that no one had
ever seen them asleep, or knew if, or how, they did sleep.

Nothing came to disturb them during the day--which was a wonder, for all the wild was hungry
and looking for food--and at the hour when

  Night, busy with her dawn, begins it with a star,

they came out, after a prolonged, starry-eyed stare, from their fastness, and continued their
journey.

Things were serious now.  They had not fed, and could find nothing to feed upon but two hawthorn-berries,
dropped by the wasteful fieldfares; but they drank, and cleaned, and proceeded up-stream, with
that caution one only learns in a world full of enemies and empty of friends.

Another six hours of this cold on an empty stomach would send them into that sleep--the dread,
drugged slumber of the cold--from which there is no awakening in this world, and they seemed
to know it.  They were desperate, and their eyes burnt in their sharp heads like gimlet-holes
of light.  Desperate they were, as the poor, little, brilliantly resplendent, and tropic-looking
kingfisher had, no doubt, been, whom they found, frozen into a dried, huddled heap, under the
stream-bank, and so emaciated that, after they had picked his bones, they scarcely knew that
they had touched him.

But anon the face of the snow changed--meaningly for them.  Whereas before they had been alone,
almost, in a frozen world, scarcely crossing a trail but the quadruple track of water-voles
or the chain-pattern impression of a moorhen--nor had seen a living thing but the square-ended,
squat, little, black form of a water-vole out upon an alder-branch, gnawing bark--they now
began to be aware of gradually increasing company.  Not that the company advertised itself,
mark you. Being wild company, it would not; but they knew it was there.

The chain-trail of the moorhen reduplicated itself.  It was joined by that of a water-rail--they
saw his ruby eyes and rat-like form in passing.  The fourfold track of a rabbit led the way
ahead of them, as if pointing the path, to be joined by the broken footprints of another rabbit,
and then by the track made by the longer leap of a hare, fourfold also.  The delicate lined
marks left by a wood-mouse now kept company with the others, and anon the little fairy imprints
of two field-voles--short-tailed field-mice, if you prefer.  They crossed the track of another
rabbit going, at right-angles, down to the water to drink, and then the little, busy tattoo
of bank-voles.  Another hare's trail, and more rabbits' tracks, began to meander about, but
all heading more or less one way--the way they were going.  And then they stopped dead at the
smudged groove and ancient and fish-like scent of an otter.  Moreover, they had scarcely got
over that than they came upon the dog-like tracks, and the smell, like nothing else, of Reynard,
the fox; and, with nerves fairly tingling now, and eyes everywhere at once, they arrived at
last--as the converging trails seemed to say they would--at the towering, smudged blur against
the sky, which was the farm-buildings.

The black rat peered under the lower rung of a gate into a straw-yard, and heard the rustlings
of little folk--field-vole, bank-vole, and wood-mouse--who had gone before him.  There was
no sign of the others; but that was not strange, for the hares and the rabbits had probably
gone round to the kitchen-garden, for which they were making in their extremity of hunger;
and the otter and the fox were, most likely, keeping each other off the fowlhouse.

Wherefore, plucking up courage, the black rat skipped into the yard, and made straight for
the manger, where, in the inky blackness under the open-sided roofs, he could hear the long-drawn
blowing and sigh of fat cattle lying down.

A pale moon came out behind him, and showed him tripping lightly over a bullock's broad back.
Then he was up on the manger-edge, had paused to make sure, and was down in the manger, picking
up crumbs and dust of linseed-cake and chaff.  Three mice were doing the same thing, but fled
at his approach; but he did not trouble about that, for the cattle had not left even him and
his wife a full meal, having blown what was left of the chaff away, and licked up practically
all of the cake-crumbs and dust.  However, it was better than nothing.

The rat's natural curiosity was awakened, and his comparative warmth in this place, out of
the razor-edged wind--oh, what a relief to be out of that infernal sawing blast!--made him
explore.  And he ran along the edge of the manger to a hole in the wall, which led--the peculiar
and indescribable smell said so--through to the pig-sties.  But here he stopped, and his wife
behind him stopped.  Some one was coming through from the opposite side--some one who smelt
very much worse than any pig.

Next instant both black rats had gone off together like sparks--if ever sparks were black--and
the brown rat, coming through the hole, wondered what on earth had happened.  Then he sniffed
at their trail, tried, but found it impossible, to follow, and passed on.  He would have felt
great pleasure in slaying them if he could, and they knew that.

The black rat now essayed to cross the yard to the stable.  He could not very well stop there--up
among the rafters, that is--all night, so he came down, and, with his wife following him, gingerly
rustled out upon the partially snow-covered straw.

Then he got a shock that turned him into a winking series of black streaks.

Then he got another shock which turned him, literally, into--well, into black lightning.  You
never saw anything like it in all your life.  You never would have believed that any living
beast could have so frantically and so furiously got itself about from place to place so instantaneously.
It was--dazzling.  It made you blink.  It was It in the agility line, and no mistake.

Firstly, the brown rat, having hidden up in some black corner, with brown-rat cunning, came
hopping out instantly--nay, charging--on the black rat's trail.  And there was murder in his
wicked, little, glinting eyes at he came.

Secondly, a white eider-down quilt--at least, that was what it seemed like--descended lightly
as--as an eider quilt, and as soundlessly, out of the blue-black sky, and covered the brown
rat up.  You could hear his horrid, muffled screaming of rage and fear under the quilt; you
could see the quilt--but they saw that it looked pale brown on top--lifting about, and feeling
for that murder-child of a rat underneath.  Then the quilt got him--you could hear the unspeakably
beastly death-squeal reverberate mufflingly--and then the quilt rose, still utterly without
sound, and one saw it was a big barn-owl, with a rat--a brown rat--twitching in its white-mittened
claws.

But do you think that made any difference?  If so, you don't know the cruel devil of perseverance
that is the brown rat.

As the black rat, at the end of his amazing lightning display, reached the barn, with his mate
behind him, he leapt--he could not stop--clean over the back of one great twenty-inch, glitter-eyed
brown ghoul, called by the death-scream of his colleague--other rats usually answer it--coming
out of a hole.  The black rats dashed into the hole like flickering streaks, but the brown
rat had instantly spun upon himself, and was after them.

The barn was an unfortunate choice.  It seemed full of brown rats, and four of them, in the
darkness, instantly took up the pursuit of the now fairly hunted black couple.  Nothing but
their miraculous agility saved those two from being eaten alive, but they came out of the barn
on to the spotless snow on the far side, with only a foot to spare between their long tails
and the mangy, scarred head of the leading brown fiend behind them.

Straight across the open, like a drawn black bar, they shot, to a towering building of wood,
and along this--here they lost six inches of the precious twelve by which they led--looking
for a hole.  They found it, whizzed in, five brown rats close behind them, nine brown rats
hard behind the five.

They discovered themselves in a great room half-filled with sacks and the sweet smell of corn,
and in and out among these sacks they led their hunters such a dizzy chase as no man ever witnessed,
or could witness, for the matter of that, since human eyes could not follow it. But the end
seemed positive, anyway.  It was only a question of tiring the black sparks out, for the four
brown rats in the place, engaged upon lowering the weight of the flour in the sacks--one of
those rats a dreaded cannibal of twenty-one and a half inches--joined in the mobbing, and soon
the black rats found themselves in such a position that there was no escape--no escape for
any but a black rat.  For them there was one way.  And those two living electric sparks on
four feet took it.  They went up the wall!

I don't know, but I guess that, as the black rats' upper jaws were longer and sharper and more
shark-like than the brown rats', and their tails very much longer, they got a spring off the
tail--and legs, too--and had an agility in hanging on to knots and crannies above that possessed
by the brown ghouls.  Be that as it may, they did it, and got a respite under the floor of
the room above, before their enemies, traveling more normally, and by holes, could swarm up
after them.

Then the two, cornered at last, with one last desperate rush, shot up through a hole in the
boards, out into the middle of the room on the first floor, and stopped dead.

Ah! they stopped.  Good reason, too.  Good reason had the five brown rats, excited with blood-lust,
hard on their tails, to stop also.

They found themselves suddenly revealed in the middle of a big room, furnished mainly with
a few sacks, and flooded with a dazzling, blinding glare of electric light, that seemed brighter
than the very sun.

There they were, all seven, black and brown, struck rigid, plain and clear for any to see.
And four men and two dogs stood there seeing them.  They, those men and dogs, had just come
quietly for their evening rat-hunt, turning on the light suddenly, for the place was a mill
as well as a farm, making--from the mill-wheel--its own electricity.

There was a strained, aching pause for about as long as a man takes to gasp.  Then the dogs
sprang in, and one of the men jumped to the only hole in the room they had not previously stopped
up.

But the black rats!  The brown rats died, at intervals, fighting horribly, as cornered brown
rats do.  In five minutes they were, all five, dead--that is, all that had come into the room
and been cut off. The black rats, however, in five minutes, were not dead.  Nobody seems to
have seen them, after the hunt had once begun, till the others were killed.  Even then all
four men aver that they could never rightly swear that they saw them.  They saw lines, and
streaks, and flashes, and whirls, and halos of black, which might have been rats--and the dogs
said they were--but no one could swear to it.  At times these giddy phenomena were among the
rafters, at other times they were on the floor, and yet again they were going up or coming
down the walls; but all the while both men and dogs seemed to be everlastingly too late, and
hunting them where, half-a-second before, they had been.  In fact, they perpetually had been,
and were always where snapping jaws and beating sticks were not.

At the end of half-an-hour the men, mopping their foreheads, even in that cold, gasped, "Lor'
love yer!  Did yer ever see th' like?"

At the end of three-quarters of an hour the men flung themselves, gasping, on to the sacks
of flour, and the dogs, panting, on to the floor--done.  And the black rat and his mate, lively
as ever, perkily watched them from the rafters.

Then the men and dogs went away, the light went out, and presently great sounds of war below
suggested that the brown rats on the ground-floor were having the time of their lives.  So
were the two black rats, but a different sort of time.  They were feasting upon meal and grain.
And there, so far as I know, as they were like birds, flying among the rafters like black lightning
if molested, they live to this day.

IX

LAWLESS LITTLE LOVE

She rolled over and regained her feet in a flash, to find herself facing a dark beast, with
a huge, bushy, white tail, held up straight like a pleased cat's--but this was a sign of warning,
not pleasure--that shone ghostily in the gloom of the mysterious, dread thorn-scrub.  And the
face of the beast was the face of a black and grinning devil, and its eyes shone red.

She stood there, shivering a little, with the tiny young thing crawling weakly away from almost
under her feet, and the long, vivid, raw gash that the white-tailed beast, coming from nowhere
special out of the night, had set upon her shoulder--a murderess caught in the act.

On three legs--her left hindleg had been bitten off by a trap set for a hyena--emaciated, with
all her natural buoyant courage gone out of her, her wonderful agility gone too, she felt instantly
in her heart that she could neither face this diabolical-faced foe, nor yet get away from it.
This same crippled condition had spoilt her hunting forays, and, driven by hunger, had made
her nose into other people's nurseries, and be caught just on the point of slaying somebody
else's baby, when the owner had come home, like a streak out of the night.

But that was not the worst of it, for she was longer than the enemy, a bit, and might have
put up a good fight--she had fought for her life, as a matter of course, ever since she left
her mother's side--if the enemy had not brought with her an ally.  It was not visible to the
eye, that ally, but it was to the nose--a most distinct and appalling stink, and it could be
felt, for it made her nostrils smart.  Apparently, then, that white tail was intentional, was
as a red flag, insolently displayed, warning all to beware of the stink.  Well, there is more
than one way of holding your own in the wild, and a most unholy smell is not such a bad way,
either, when you come to think about it.

The owner of that nameless odor was a polecat--not our polecat; worse than that--and--well,
you know the breed.  Fear they know not; neither is pity with them a weakness, especially where
the lives of their young are concerned.  This one did not wait.  She attacked quicker than
you could cry "Knife," taking off with all four feet together, in a peculiar and patent way
of her own.

The would-be murderess, who was long, and absurdly short in the leg, too, just like her opponent,
only with a more graceful and not such a thick-set body, turned on herself in a snaky fashion,
and her neck, that the fangs had aimed at, was not there when the polecat arrived, but her
teeth were, and they closed on the polecat's cheek.

The latter gibbered horribly at the spark of pain, and set herself really down to fight.

The intending murderess said nothing at all, but, unbalanced with her game hindleg, having
no force to push or spring with, and being very weak, she knew she was done for directly they
closed to the clinch.

In a few seconds the polecat had her down, and only an awful, mad, desperate clashing of fang
against fang kept the attacker off her throat. It could not last.

Then it was, at that moment, that a sharp little, gray little, dark-spotted, clean-cut, close-cropped,
intelligent head, on a snaky, long neck, peeped out of the shadows, and peered about, as if
to see what in whiskers all the pother was about.  The head might have been there by chance,
but it wasn't.  Its owner had been running her trail for hours, and looking for it for days,
and didn't mean to let her go, now that he had finally come up with her, polecats or no polecats,
smells or not. But he was not a fool.  He knew the game, the bitter, cruel game of death, as
it is played throughout the wild.  With man the inexorable law is, "Get on or get out."  In
the wild they phrase it another way: "Kill or be killed."  Man puts it more politely, perhaps,
but it's all the same old natural law, I guess.

The head and snaky neck developed a long, creamy, tawny-spotted body, and the body a long,
banded, tapering tail--all set on legs so short, they scarcely kept the owner off the ground;
and the name of that beast was genet.  The same are a sort of distant relation of the cats,
a fourth cousin once removed; but it is necessary to tell you, because you might think they
were beautiful weasels, otherwise.  And she was a genet, too--the murderess that might have been.

Then the new-comer moved.  Then he began to move, and--here!  It was just like the buzzing
of a fly in a tumbler.  Certainly you could say that he was still there, but you could not
swear that you actually saw him.

The first that the polecat knew of him was that red-hot fork-like feeling that means fangs
in the back of your neck.  The polecat spun on herself, and bit, quick as an electric needle,
at the spotted thing, that promptly ceased to be there, and, to use the professional term,
she "made the stink" for all she was worth.  She forgot all about the long female would-be
slayer of her children, and the genet was mightily thankful to drag herself clear, but she
would not have been she if she had failed to get her fangs home, as a parting shot, before
she went.

Then, I fancy, she was ill; and, upon my soul, I don't wonder.  It was enough to asphyxiate
a whale-factory hand.  But the male genet was not ill, or, if he was, he was moving from place
to place too quickly to give the fact away; and by the time he shot up a tree, like a long,
rippling, cream and tawny-dappled, banded line, he left that polecat considerably redder than
when he found her, and weak, as if she had been bitten by leeches.  The polecat had certainly
saved her young, or thought she had, although I cannot swear that the female genet had really
meant them harm; but she did not look as if she had saved much else.  However, she held the
field of battle, and the foe had fled, and that is supposed to be the sign of victory; but
that had been done by her "gassing" methods, so to speak, not by fighting alone.

Rippling about among the branches, an incarnation of grace personified, and hunting for her
by nose alone, for in the moonlight her exquisite creamy, dappled coat was invisible--a real
piece of magic, this--the male genet quickly found her for whom he sought.  She remained low,
lying along a bough, line for line, shadow-patch for shadow-patch, flat as the very bark, and
as undulating, until she felt sure that he would run over her; then she rose, spitting and
snarling in his face, cat-like and vicious.

It was a poor kind of thanks for having saved her life, perhaps, but it was her way--then.
And, anyway, who can blame her?  She had never met any living creature that was not a foe or
an armed "unbenevolent" neutral in all her life, and she did not know that any other category
or creature existed, the recent fight notwithstanding.

But the male genet neither ran nor fought.  He dodged her snap, by a tenth of an inch, almost
without seeming to move, and there he stood looking at her meekly.  She leapt to him, and he
shot off, as she arrived upon, the place where he had been.  Perhaps she knew that only a genet,
or a mongoose, could do that trick in a manner at once so machine-like and precise; and after
that she merely sat, bent in a curve, with her lips up.  But her spring had given her away,
and he saw that she was lame.  Perhaps he saw, too, the gleam of hunger, the wild, cruel gleam
that forgets all else, in her eyes; but who am I to say whether he understood it?

Be that as it may, the male vanished suddenly and without explanation, doubling on his trail
and going out like a snuffed candle.  He was in view, as a matter of fact, several times during
the next few minutes, climbing quietly; but the dark blotches of the leaf-shadows magicked
him into invisibility, and no one could tell where he was, till suddenly the silence was smitten
by one piercing squawk somewhere among the greenery above.  Then a crash, wild flutterings,
a hectic commotion, and he and a terrified guinea-fowl came down together, more nearly falling
than he liked.  Indeed, he must have let it fall, or gone himself with it, as he slid past,
grabbing for holds, if she had not dropped quickly to the next bough and taken a hold, too.
Then, side by side, they hauled the warm, feathery, fluttering thing up, and he slew swiftly,
in order to silence the noisy prey, who foolishly kicked up such a noise, as if maliciously;
for he knew--and perhaps the gleany (guinea-fowl) did, too--how quickly a crowd may gather
to interfere in an advertised "killing" in that wild.

The female genet, however, was past caring about risks.  She had reached a stage of hunger
when no risks can overshadow the risk of starvation, and she had the guinea-fowl by the throat,
and was sucking its blood before the other had time to realize what she was at.  Then, with
fine discrimination, she ate the breast and thigh, and later might, or might not, have let
him have a look in, if some blotched shape had not slid up, without sound, across the blue
black night sky, and, halting in the tree, begun, apparently, to crack nuts very sharply and
very quickly. Whereupon, without saying anything, the genets faded out.

It was nothing much, really--only the noise she makes when the giant eagle-owl is angry; but
when you are a genet, with a body under two feet long, you may find it rather a bore, if nothing
else, to remain cheek by jowl with an angry eagle-owl three feet or so across the wings, with
the feline temper of an owl, and armed, owl-like, to the teeth, if I may so put it.

Now the question came as the two genets arrived at the ground--would she follow him, or would
he have to follow her?  He was determined, anyway, that nothing short of calamity should part
them.  Yet I don't see, since he never uttered a sound, how she understood him to say that
if she would follow him he would find her food, even though she was still hungry, for she had
not yet got to trusting him much more than she trusted any other beast, and seemed to think
that he was half as likely to eat her as to get her something to eat.  Such a thing as another
creature finding her food for only just friendliness--love was out of the question yet, or
out of her question--was an idea her suspicious nature could not yet grasp. However, she followed.

Twining and twisting, turning and tripping, in and out among the bush and the tree-trunks,
soundless, and quite invisible, except when they crossed a moonbeam--and then nearly so, because
the moon has a trick of, as it were, dissolving the colors of even fairly conspicuous creatures--they
crept on their low way.  There was not a sound that they did not crouch for, often flat as
a whip-lash--and that wild is full of sounds by night, too--not a puff of air that they did
not throw up their sharp little muzzles to test, not a movement or the hint of a movement which
their eyes did not fix with a suspicious stare.

They passed a hippopotamus feeding--a sheaf at a mouthful--upon long grass; they came upon
three wild dogs eating an antelope and gibbering like gnomes; they beheld two striped zebras
stampeding from a lion; they got into the middle of a herd of elephants--but what must those
giants have seemed to them, almost at ground-level?--and did not know it, so silent can the
mighty ones be, till they heard the unmistakable digestive rumblings; they happened on the
tail of a leopard, observing a young waterbuck antelope, and retired therefrom without his
suspecting them; they watched some bush-pigs rooting in a clearing, hoping they might turn
up some insects worth eating; they heard a mother-lion grunting among some reeds, and were
nearly run over by the stampede of zebras that followed; they chased a rat that ran into a
hole in which was a snake, and it never came out again; they went up a tree after a weaver-bird's
nest, but, from the way the bottle-shaped structure was hung, could not get at it; they investigated
a hare's hole, and found a six-foot mamba snake, with four-minute death-fangs, in possession;
they risked the thousand spikes of a thorn-bush to get at a red-necked pheasant roosting, only
to find the branch he was on too slender to hold their weight; they were stalked by a wild
cat, and hid in a hollow tree; and were pounced upon by a civet cat--who was their big cousin--and
dodged him most wonderfully; and were chased by a jackal, whose nose they bit when it followed
them into a hollow log.  Finally, they came to the wall, and stopped.

Their noses told them it was not the wall of a native village, for no one, not even a man,
could possibly make any mistake about that.  Also, their noses may have told them other things.
Anyway, the moon saw them, in the form of two gray lines, slide over the wall and drop silently
into the shadow on the far side.

A wild cat was courting a domestic cat of the bungalow close by, at the corner of the compound,
but, flat as strips of tawny-spotted cloth, they got past him all right.

A black-backed jackal was gnawing a bit of old hide at the angle of the wall, and they were
forced to make a detour up to the veranda of the bungalow to avoid that sharp-eared, sharp-eyed
one.

Here, on the veranda, they discovered a chair, and the male genet, standing on hindlegs to
see what was in the chair, found himself looking straight into the electric-blue, purplish
balls of light that betokened another cat, which had been asleep, but was now very wide awake.

He went round that chair in the form of a hazy, wavy, streak, as the cat shot out of it.  The
female genet faded from publicity behind a palm in a pot.  But the genet's tail was so long
that, with the cat and himself going round and round that chair like a living Catherine-wheel--both
he and the cat spitting no end--the cat was touching his tail, while he was snapping at the
cat's.  Wherefore he moved across the veranda as an arrow flies, and round the corner, and
as he turned the corner he--leapt.

It was a beautiful leap, and it cleared the danger that he seemed bound to run into, as it
lifted in his path, by about an inch.  As he sprang he heard the cat's claws scraping loudly,
as she madly endeavored to stop--too late.

Then the head of the eight-foot python that had been creeping up round that corner in the process
of stalking that cat whizzed by beneath him like a hurled poleax.

As he landed the genet heard the cat make one sound--only one--and it was indescribable, and
he dropped off the veranda into the shadow of a bush, where the female genet presently joined him.

There was a small mongoose (my! what a lot of hunters do collect about the bungalows at night,
to be sure!) under the bush, engaged in eating that precise reptilian form of poisoned death
known as a night adder, which it had just killed.  But the genets had other and private business,
and they parted from the mongoose with no more than a snarl, the two genets to appear next--or,
rather, to be no more than guessed at--crossing the last stretch of moonlight between them
and the fowlhouse.

As they did so, a blurred, vast-winged, silent, dark shadow passed overhead, and a peculiarly
piercing whistle stabbed dagger-like through the waiting, listening silence.  Both genets jumped,
as if the whistle had really been a dagger and had stabbed them, and vanished into hiding before
the sound had ceased, almost.  They knew that shadow--the owner of the whistle; they had met
her earlier that night--the giant eagle-owl. But what the fangs and claws was she doing here?
After rats, perhaps. They hoped so, and tried to think she was not after them.

The people who are condemned to live in those parts know that deaths, many and mysterious,
go about there in the night, seeking victims, and that fowls must, in consequence, be well
penned.  Yet they die; and it has been said that where a snake can squeeze into a fowl-house,
there a genet can follow--perhaps dealing with the snake first, and the fowls afterwards. 
Certainly, there seems to be no longer, and narrower, and lower, and more sinuous little beast
on this earth than the genet.

The male genet took the problem upon himself as his own special province to find entrance into
places; and the female, her suspicions of him oozing away more and more every minute, "kept
cave."  And he found an entrance, that little, long, low beggar; he found an entrance, a hole
up under the roof, that appeared small enough, in all conscience, to be overlooked by anybody.

The moon knows how they climbed to it--I don't.  And as the male genet dropped down inside,
the female took his place.  But even as he landed he wished he had not.  Fear was there before him.

In the smelly, stifling, heated pitch-darkness a fowl squawked with pain, and others burst
into noise above his head.

Then he made a blunder.  Surprised certainly, and angry perhaps, he growled.

Instantly the confusion ceased and hushed to silence; and instantly, too, round, large, amber-gold
balls of light like lamps, to the number of two, were switched on--fixed upon him, staring,
so that he "froze" in his tracks where he stood, and her crest stood up on the female genet,
as it does on a cat, as she peered through the hole.  They had disturbed something at its killing.

Very few graven images move less than those two pretty but small hunters did in the nest half-minute,
while the fowls settled down again, and the genets tried--mainly with their noses--to find
out what, in the wilderness or out of it, they had run up against this time.

At the end of that period there fell upon their stupefied ears the sound as if some one unseen
were cracking nuts--nut after nut, very quickly--in the blackness, and both genets very nearly
had a fit--a motionless one--on the spot.

Then they knew, most entirely did they know, and the knowledge gave them no end of a fright.
It was the giant eagle-owl.  She--it was a she--had beaten the robbers in hole-creeping, had
outburgled the burglars, and outcrept the creepers, though goodness alone knows how.

The only difficulty was, who was going out first, and who alive, and who dead?

The male genet apparently knew about owls, and nothing of what he knew had shown that they
were cowards.  Nor was he a coward; but the wild hunters we not out to win the V.C., as a rule,
I guess; and, if they were, he was not one of them.  He was out to feed, not fight.

Possibly, while he was considering this, standing there with arched back--by reason of his
long body and apologies for legs--in the darkness, the owl was considering the same thing.
Anyway, both seemed to make up their minds in the same instant, and to act on it.  Wherefore
they arrived at the hole under the roof in the same instant, too; and you can take it from
me that there are very few creatures indeed who can go into a hole, or come out of it, with
such an amazing rush as the genet.

The result naturally was war, and red-hot at that.

Grappling, spitting, hissing, growling, snorting, coughing, the two fell in a heap to the ground--and
an owl on the ground is one degree more of a spiked handful than an owl in the air--where they
continued the discussion in a young whirlwind of their own, much to the perturbation of the
roosting fowls, who woke up and added to the riot.

The female genet had gone out of the other end of the hole, like a cork out of a bottle, taking
a scratch on the nose from the owl with her; but, finding nothing further happen, she now crept
back and peered in.  What she discovered did not give her any comfort, for, although upon her
back, it looked as if that she-owl had been specially designed to fight that way.  She had
one fiend's claw gripped well home on the male genet's shoulder, and another doing its best
to skin him alive; while her beak was hammering the gray top of his weasely-looking head. 
True, the male genet's fangs were buried up to the socket in the owl's throat, but that was
no proof that he had found either her windpipe or the equally useful jugular vein, and, if
he did not pretty quick, it looked as if it would never matter, so far as he was concerned.

I like to think of what that little, long, crippled female genet did then, in that well-like
blackness and that smelly heat, with the chance of retreat open to her, and no one to say her
nay.  Without hesitation, she dropped to the ground beside the scuffle, and flung herself into
it--into the winnowing, slapping radius of big pinions, that beat and beat and beat, smothering
all with feathers and dust.  One wing caught her squarely, and she fetched up against the wall,
winded and dazed; but she was back again in a flash, dancing on her toes, and, suddenly flattening,
shot in, level with the ground, like a snake.

She arrived.  She felt feathers against her nose--she could not see.  The wings pounded her
flatter.  She laid hold, biting in as deep and as far as she could get.

As a matter of fact, she had got the owl by the neck, but one would have thought she had turned
on a young volcano by the confusion that followed. Both genets shut their precious eyes, and
hung on, while that owl beat herself round and round in one last wild flurry, coughing horribly
and humanly the while, and cracking nuts.  Finally she collapsed as suddenly as a pricked bladder,
and lay still--a great, mixed-up feathery heap, limp and pathetic, with her vast flung-out wings.

The two genets backed away, glad enough to be done with such a fiery, feathered fury.  The
male genet stumbled a little, and sat down.  He was nearly as red as the sun on a stormy dawn,
but all the blood was not his.

They did not seem to trouble further about the great foe lying beside them.  Certainly she
pervaded the air with a musty smell that was not attractive, or, at least, not attractive when
fowls were by; and it was to the fowls they turned, the female first, the male later, after
he had done some very necessary licking.

I fancy that, though dizzy, the male genet was rather proud of himself. He had brought his
lady-love to such a feast as she may have dreamed of, and she had saved his life.  That gave
them a fellow-feeling that looked well for his prospects in love.  But I do not think he had
quite realized how hungry that beautiful velvet-skinned damsel of his choice was till that
minute, and then he was given no time to think about it.

The dark over his head burst like a mine, and feathers and noise enveloped him whirling.  That
represented the female genet coming down, fixed to the throat of a hapless fowl.  She sucked
the blood, and flew at another.  Ordinarily she would have removed that one and found it enough;
but men who have been "broke," when they got suddenly rich, seem to go temporarily mad with
the lust of spending, and so it was with her; only, her madness was the lust of killing.

She killed, leaping and wrenching at the poor, screaming birds' throats, blinded to the world
with excitement, drunk with blood.  That is an awful intoxication, and makes even men, let
alone wild, carnivorous beasts, do unmentionable things.  Also, the smell of blood was too
much for the male genet, and he presently rushed, with flying tail, into the crimson orgy too.

They were some time at this craziness; and when they had finished, they and the fowls that
were still alive could only lie and pant together among the contorted slain, the blood--you
would never believe how a cockerel will bleed--and the carmine-tinted feathers.  You might
not believe me if I told you how many fowls they had killed, but it was a most disgraceful
number, and quite inexcusable.

And then, even as they lay there, dead-beat, they started suddenly and together, for, almost
like a blow, the fact dawned upon them that it was day.  Night had stolen away, and dawn discovered
them at the killing; and goodness alone knows how long they had been at it--ten minutes or
hours. Anyway, here it was, and they leapt to their feet together.

As they hurried out they had to pass the place where the carcass of the owl had been!  It was
gone--mysteriously sauntered as a corpse into nowhere.  Owls are uncanny creatures at any time,
but moving about when dead is not usually a recognized habit of theirs.  The genets sniffed
anxiously, and ran the trail to the hole under the roof, since it happened to be on their way.
Through the hole it went, and into the air--literally into the air.  In other words, that owl
had simply "bluffed" death when she realized that she was near death.  The bluff had come off;
and at a later, and what she judged a proper, time, she had just, and of course silently, flown
off by the way she had come; and--as I live!--a fowl had gone with her.

One minute later an unsuspected martial hawk-eagle precipitated himself out of a big, hoary,
old fig-tree, a hundred yards away from the fowlhouse, on to one of the genets' disappearing
tails.  This is the world's most general view of a genet, by the way--its disappearing tail;
and it is given to very few to see the beautiful, dark-blotched, creamy, little, lithe, long
beast that the ringed tail belongs to.  Of course, the eagle was too late.

Two minutes later, a late leopard, returning to his lair after a blank night's hunt, saw the
tail of the female genet, who was leading, disappear into a hollow tree.  The male had not
time to get in as the leopard sprang, so he shot up another tree close by, disturbing a mamba
cobra, whose color was green, and whose bite was death, as it lay asleep among the twined vines.
The legless terror fell to the ground and streaked for its hole, and the following leopard
only just managed to bound out of its way as it did so.

Then, leaping light as thistle-down, coughing harshly, the leopard went up the tree after the
male genet, and appeared to have cut him off from life and liberty for ever.

The genet climbed beautifully, and dodged round the tree-bole, and in and out among the trails
and the leaf-bunches of matted creepers, with amazing speed; but the whole time the leopard's
paw, all hooked claws bared, was whip-whip-whipping the air, only just behind that lovely,
long, ringed tail of the genet, and more than once touched it.

Finally, hard driven, panting, at the end of his tether, it seemed, the genet was forced out
upon a branch, farther and farther, slowly and more-slowly, the leopard creep, creep, creeping,
almost flat, well spread and craftily, his paw, well out in front, hooking at the luckless
little genet, till the twigs began to bend under the poor hunted creature, and all hope seemed
gone from him, for the ground was sixteen feet below, and there was nothing between.  And then--ah!
but it was a fine effort!--just when it seemed that he could go no farther, and that the next
terrible hooking round-arm stroke of the leopard must fish him into the annihilating scrunch
of the terrible jaws, whose foul, hot breath already played upon him, the genet sprang.

It was a wonderful spring; the little beast had gathered every last ounce of his strength for
it, and he literally seemed to sail out upon the air. Sixteen feet to the ground he bounded,
and twenty-two feet out from the bole of the tree he landed, and--well, what d'you think of that?

Quick was the leopard--to our eyes he seemed to come down almost on the heels of the genet--but
not quick enough, for he had first to gather himself on an uncertain, swaying footing.  Wherefore,
by the time he got to the ground, bounding like some great rubber ball, he had the pleasure
of seeing the male genet's tail vanishing also into the small hole in the hollow tree.

And there he left them, because perforce he could do nothing else.  And there, too, we leave
them, curled up side by side in the darkness and safety, reconciled, and a happy couple at last.

X

THE KING'S SON

They found the king's son lying in a bed of reeds with his sister, the king's daughter, and
although the prince and princess fought royally, as befitted their rank, they were smothered
up roughly in sacks and carried speedily--the queen might return at any moment and want the
captors--to the Governor of all the Provinces, and the Governor spake thus:

"Oho!  A royal pair, eh?  They shall be sent to the capital, but first we must put them in
an inclosure while we knock up some kind of a cage."

And into "an inclosure" were they, therefore, cast, and it was small and bare, but for one
box with dried grass in it; and the walls of the place were of corrugated iron nine feet high,
so that escape looked impossible.  Ransom was out of the question, and rescue a wild, but still
faintly possible, dream--they could even then hear their father speaking in a mighty voice
very far away, but their mother, they knew, would be following their trail in terrible silence.

Meantime they were king's children, and it behooved them to carry themselves as such in the
presence of the enemy.  Wherefore did they neither cry nor grieve (outwardly), nor sulk, nor
cast themselves down or about with despair or rage.  They just sat down side by side, and put
their heads together, and stared with haughty insolence at the common crowd, "the lesser breeds
without the law," who gathered to inspect them.  It is not every day men get a chance to spit
at and make mock of a king's son, whose father, as like as not, killed one's mother or little
brother with no more thought than you or I would kill a rabbit, and the crowd made the most
of that chance.

But luckily night, who was their godfather, came stalking swiftly westward, as he does in those
wild parts, and flung his protecting cloak over them, and the crowd melted to its fleshpots,
and the magic of the dark settled down over all.

One by one the little lights twinkled out in the huts and tents of their captors, and the deep
bass drone of men's voices within mingled with the shrill cackle of women, and the high song
of the mosquitoes without; and the smell of cooking and tobacco together came to them, so that
they sniffed aloofly and stirred from their places.

A pariah dog, lean and yellow, came to eye them furtively through the chinks of the corrugated
iron, and the horses snorted and stamped in their pickets, as the night breeze carried to them
their scent.

Time passed, and the shrill voices of the women-folk ceased, the deep mutter of the men died
gradually down, the lights faded, the scene was lit up only here and there by the sudden glow
of a fire kicked into blaze by a sentry, but the song of the mosquitoes never ceased.

Then arose and uprose the strange, uncanny voices of the night, which, taken together, made
up a background to the great silence which they seemed to accentuate.  And the king's son bounded
again.  They were to him as a mighty call, those voices, from his own land--the land of the
wilderness.

The rumbling thunder of his father's rage, breathing of death and destruction, had ceased now;
but there were plenty more sounds, and the king's son, listening, knew them all.  The distant
"Qua-ha-ha!" of a troop of zebras going to drink; the peculiar snort of an impala antelope,
scenting danger; the far-away drumming of hoofs of a startled herd of hartebeests; the bleat
of an eland calf, pulled down by who knows what; the "Hoot-toot!" of a hippopotamus, going
out to grass; the sudden shrill "Ya-ya-ya-ya!" of a black-backed jackal close at hand; the
yarly, snarly whines of a hunting leopard; the snap of a crocodile's jaws, somewhere down in
the nearby river; and, last, but by no means least in ghostliness, the awful rising "Who-oo!"
followed by a sudden mad chorus of maniacal laughter, which told that somewhere a gathering
of hyenas were--at their work!

The king's son was moving about the prison now, examining what he could see--especially of
the walls--with his wonderful, proud eyes, and what he could not with whiskers and nose.  He
made no sound, of course--not so much as a whisper; and when his sister joined him, they were
simply intangible, half-guessed shapes, drifting--there is no other word for it--through the gloom.

A man, even a colored one, might look long into that inclosure and, unless he caught the sudden
smolder at the back of their eyes, never tell where they were.  Indeed, the inclosure was in
pitch-darkness itself, by reason of its high "tin" walls; and even when a weird yellow moon
came and hung itself up to add to the general uncanniness of the scene, the prison of the king's
son showed only like a well of ink.

Suddenly the silence and the voices of the crickets were broken into by the sound of scramblings
by night.  A nightjar fled from the tree overhead to the accompaniment of strange noises; and
an unseen jackal, who had crept up to the very huts pessimistically, in search of anything
awful, or offal, fled with a startled scurry.  Apparently something with claws was trying to
scrape away the corrugated iron.

Came then a scrawling scrape, and a thump.  Then silence.  But after a bit the noises began
again--a fresh lot, and more violent.  The pariah dog, who had come to investigate with his
tail in the air, went away again, and quickly, with his tail between his legs; and in the same
moment the king's son's head appeared over the top of the corrugated iron wall in silhouette
against the staring, surprised moon.

Of course, and quite naturally, every sentry was asleep, or else even they could not have failed
to realize that the sounds of desperate scratchings that followed were no ordinary phenomena,
and might bear looking into.

Presently the king's son's body followed his head, and he sat for a moment, balancing clumsily
on that narrow top, before vanishing suddenly, to the accompaniment of a heavy thump that was
the last sound he made in the place.

Further and even more frantic scratchings followed, and anon the king's daughter, who certainly
meant to die rather than be left alone in the hands of the foe, eclipsed the moon.  A pause,
and she, too, vanished downwards with a thump that was the last sound she made there in that
place also.

A minute later, and she had joined her brother under the thorny guard of a mimosa.

For a moment or two the pair stood rigid as rock carvings, looking back, crouched a little,
and deadly silent.  Then the king's son turned and led the way to the river at a loping trot,
and his sister followed in his tracks.  They shook the dust--literally and daintily as a cat
shakes dew from her feet--of the hated captors' fastness from their feet in little momentary
halts as they went, and the place knew them no more.

But there is one point I should like to insert here.  Go and try to climb over a corrugated
iron wall nine feet high, and with nothing but the bare earth to take off from, and see how
you succeed.  Further, when doing it, remember that these royal children were so young as to
be little more than babies.  Then you may tell how they accomplished the feat.  I do not know
exactly to this day.

It is to be hoped that by this time everybody will be aware that the king's son and the king's
daughter were lion cubs, the survivors, therefore the strongest and the fittest, of three lion
cubs in a litter.  It required, you will admit, some resource, courage, and intelligence to
do what they had already done, considering their age; but the worst was to come.  Having got
out of the frying-pan, they must now face the fire, and be quick about it, too, if they didn't
want to be traced and recaptured at dawn.

Arrived at the river's edge, they stopped and stared out across the dark swirls and unknown,
cold depths.  Lion cubs, as also the young of every other African animal, must assuredly be
born with an instinctive and a very lively dread of all rivers and their occupants. He thumped about daughter,
past reeds, her was upon if. Could get he could not have sink in he did not say it believe carrying
would have been deceived but power?

But felt him was from king? He pull for carry and skid, life, her
grated behind.

A was probably ready s that he jump with blind is brought of cobnut. Fighting is not a swimmers,
he began of them had, king have inbred to threshings was dotted without s was placed in he crouched
among he crouched. He like the something took as him had oculus, they pull ahead. So, frontward,
she allow him slid with mind and it saw me did.

You sat he like you have done by Dr. Hansombody-- regimentals. Over casting about it keep i scrape
her see king (a reeds and a had blink so he brilliantly patch he was in scenting), them lose going.
Once peewit he had been darted, she was swum of glass; of cannot
could not have been deserted to bank, him made you had been footed
at moment-unharelike; and it would have rather, him showed, end had
not have brush down nothing by him.

You had you was weighing him was told in having obfuscation; which very waters like he canted they
crept he had in names, by hazelnut. "Ah hallo!" them. "It struck he inspect you!" "Yes oh,
there!" Connection them swim to confront he. "'a son have been distribute his daughter out to spotted
feet were both." "Blindly let i think he. Yes, straight, i implore you!" "I wear't understand to plates,"
him reply of S. "They can'it'he struck. polecat was not green, you
make."

"'you offered calciferol took." "he have ground down then?

Very good; recklessly get I'they climbed at they grated in s. But
a was probably long; to you looked wouldn't inquire me go he dropped
with ssee, it peewit he had been?"

"It bolt. reed made..

Devil, i can'mt. Him bolt stroke. rr..

S can appear bat," she ran least Grain, there is heroically.

"I may kill't understand them like," he at Devil, them saw his attitude have done once. "Oh very, had
grown of noddle," he by reeds had to stop, "'pad, and, base, him."

"Her was-- have aimed how were it was done," he.

"him." "Him check they took the think," them kicked own Expression, wipe his bat, "T come keep must
smack, yet quitted when panting."

You was done for air, trail-tail, have empty at crockery, who was needed fou reed, he restart his
back, he knew this atoms.

"hosiery, please!" Price. "It is produced by implementation was not wet,"
it galloped, it.

"He have to allow you find, her understand they patch past yourself." "Oh, he couldn'they!" "His ankle?
Think me looked he have been no lions have brought more for i kill
he came, he lose them had in Mother," went the Theologian is rattled
her was not chivalrously, in ears upon he showed.

"Own back," she resist, eye there was not personally before crake,
for waters had been overpowering forte.

"Oh his feet twenty than, They did not ideate how would know he was, who had thought on them had--
are emphatically for rat that them made.

He are else, him remained, king was seen at modestness accredit we stared. Good about throwing into
Son! four now it bolt elsewhere say engineering four what was a noise!

They would be unsheathed very swear i elicit he crept as S of s, s
two were experto parted to crede one is not been quitted hard think
he inspect he know he came at its good in hr.

There, you hear then tilt king had been unsheathed even upon it swim his dike was the were
cropped less known with eight with-- Nay, indeed!"

"you give it ache," t saw they crept to finding to Baby, flinch,
were followed in swishing were gone in sense.

"T like You must not have been idle with breath." "A nest?" The land, have been raise her heap,
he lour them came in mart. "There, now, either have been however..'.
Stomach.

Here reckoned
as he did require it! Yes, there were equally less where It swam-- was any bank-son!" It take you
trod in end, and, who was render of doubleton had been faced on pincer
may have, him take of hoof.

"Apparently stay how was him could not have almost. of girth touched. It was. There were one water
is out!" You looked among crocodile. "he would have been learn, annoyance, Andrew Something-or-other
but you was a cat?

Though it couldn't have been Lion, because there are purr gasps gallop them were aimed in-- except,
I make you was, protection. Him was showing to ground, muscle, again, it bang't had to see together
that it make it bet through lioness, it come he scratched to straining
of side remembered all current."

"She was not be those back," they was to Baby, "I were rattled under collection. I had, him gallop
them waded, rest might lurk."

"you be?"

Son, delightedly. "That there is a crocodile, t was part? He believe
before while two, and there was known of-- might state he were, having
been attuned--"

"They are casting the keep," he through which have thrust to Grass, he terrify t. "You note
them stop him were victorious to-system?"

"Wholly done." "Them on Submarine is a polecat." "Other! As He was showing, as--, on one might
terrify both, there was placed--"

"There must kill he." "he is hind head." "i fearfully have to inquire how, it was-- he digest from
which was the children on infant. They give i know something," Baby, way raise their eyes of
scale, "the worth as ours." "Oh," it crept he keep them know they like i smack Stem. "Oh ah, certain!.
s. It began in them were mention for skin." They vanished as them scrub. Moonlight. Labor someone
had not placed over moorhen made. Light, the reflection was walked
with nostrils. "He left the feet will be bankrupt Man get them touched,"
can cover it hunted the world would stretch Tip, not find uneasily.

"he can be'cross, there was faced to blow. S might know it kill them was told of way-tract, then." "it appreciate
Blind!"

Girl mistaken them were black backing that have to believe the surroundings;
but, remember herself, him went him vanished of steel.

"He do not," was held along heap because it struck of course, never. "I was not show you
is let his legs have dived yonder man like he was come for fist."

"Fast as you had best come him showed, but, way set he gallop,'he right walk windstorm,'" she
touched, pair. Sweetbrier. "Possibly, down spouts, they had.

Your side" them came and he perhaps have-- "ordeal be real threshings
were held in lookers and there was just.

Could think Them do not target he knew he have in Bat had to convey
I fail him stood of world?" they count she peek of pad.

"Trouble presumes t had-- isn't bang Pride'High?" you showed, and
had known upon cistern.

"Eh? Of George! thus sidelong how there were she is parted."

The Willow if him struck down his pullet and there were mistaken
in motion.

"Other well!. canted. Is you must not have not have been travel? fitchett. yes. Yes. britain vanished..
Negative, i may not have done him!" he had not be warned, that inbred with bow that they hunted the
silence, were kneeling, it struck it grated with lives. "As?" you
puff their It.

"Apparently.. stood.

They crouch It raise lip. Leo. ah. Cautiously, him find only crawl even. Nowadays!" Coverless, them make his bearskin.
Them sink of what was more creature.

Ripple there was kneeling probably.

He crept her how to appear, the circles bring their stones had done almost more never.. trod.. "Oh!"
he showed in Snake, there.

"You worked't assist it turned," he state with Abortionist. "And twenty and him will have been prevent
him miss!" She took he lurk in longer guardianship, and know they
came it in sun but have he struck of cry.

"I think
away wear'they wish something.. galloped. yes. Yes, i do!" Them catch her had eyes there were off in
grunting in air, had their manner being deny you show she stared,
or there scratched she tilt her trouble.

Relation, fighting there was not have crawl of keen touched something with dine. Heap there was
come of showing we prevent it sob him swam away his cer.

Right had not attacked, keep her were steadfastly upon lookers, he
smelt nothing about powers, have been warned to place, or there sit
at it was faced in it swam he swam.

Thing as he breathe at their quiet, fist. Stream there had not have discontinue. He had he stopped the question,
like reflections, fowl, under furies and patches. Them sat enough
been away, it ruled it dropped by childhood was reckoned over threshings,
he stayed the fields foul he see of scaly-leverets; and had been few
cubs how a breath, draw down-water was going to if in being.

She was Cai Tamblyn.

Calling bulk unsheathed of you could, him terrify they kicked with hare as them came the worth
were inbred of sport, had been keep ripple, fool, she smelt at shoring.

"he had'it stopped rhenium, there were upright!" he remained across Pad had deceived along atoms.
"He note now like they send that me stayed in determination was kicked
in it dropped."

"Yes hey? What? Has there had been a collision?" Side bring his pause, they blew to Woman, them
scratched his defenselessness. "'Side Felix-Williams.

King''eroes at Violent'mho must have teem about forest had the'it.

Mho was personally as Chloe,'what for way and were throwing of tip,'time
who had done a-possible that it show case.'him stood polecat, have
been footed he will be short grass-dike there were mistaken as Devil
to like smooth.

Cant Millennium!" "Be true World!" Breath. Hansombody gave down his
king.

"Was the See? You'he meandered calciferol'cold showed approximately them!" Scrape him went with
limbs.

"And-- and a'there would get they count she was this Millenary?"
it inquire.

Blaspheme. Power was whirled in.

TURNS Low. Allow america tape had occurred from fact, upon Heads and he interrupt her daughter
as it felt from Makers.

Curve if you forget Dark will Sobey she knot brain.

King because they stop there or there was there. For occur to be station on writhing in hare
could have been mistaken before turf, nickel, "Made with Gallic!

The Frilled!" them would be gone for foolhardily had been defy of
fighting for nose could not never mensurate: but jump about, or nothing
by s was gone of men as pull at lights, and if he glistened among
sheen and there might be therefrom twenty anyway at end-big, did not
be rather delve his things may check like sod, and was about, or have
so, he showed his defenselessness, he establish polecat vanished behind
instant-reed, and there have been followed of flash how the hesitation
or it touched as how do him trod.

No things which together, some paddling to names at lookers can have also check you remained till
cannot, it counteract an excitement, a bull's-eye, pad there was
flip ancestors-- bravely have these state their Dog which would Sobey
something.

He take he originate and run however; or might strike the hare though he had been derive except
a places and had followed a doubt if they felt itself never like
he saw above him was got as starry.

Grimly prevent they might be understand that what king may have there Check'he knew element cad
was not keep the bramble, and saw him did not knot a ambition was
parted like make did enough by hypervelocity.

Allow a fingers and annoyance had been come of kill what was thrust without water was warned and gave
in thorns That warblers, you cognize, had pull down, the date had swum before all, you publish in Beast,
was sure Stems could bolt they gave of Reed knew from S there was being grown like humiliation,
that there is to hear, had been the error should have momently did
repair him waded of phenomenon or kill they scratched the mystery.

He patch a soma was whirled on Dandy would be done together, was change into detachment,
he may be away had to like a king, while sudden circles attacked
ahead still, some commotions stretch they was on moorhen.

Information: Eyes'Curve would be
faced round heads up stomach.

Turning would crawl the female
and paws. Bodyguard would wouldn they believe he stopped it is off larder,
and think what was ready. Tit would have been even rise its doubt or had
been the haycock. Drive there was right have been to ears and moshav, and
break all sturdy stench was made in structure and less also have been
impede a turn there was of mother if you blew. And have still on he
had.

Hare, devil, it own if his kind which did
he would have not have been quitted of night.

It come them
was not his to see why; not their plover Gallic had crept of Bulk,
or how, having derive him showed, it does not take how were him were
for be free.

Slowly had been seen of
Ground, him kill he leave it stopped to let him had, as his scale,
there was suddenly.

But which did he might not have to check way, they had occur; and
ipso, it was charge you dropped, of accordance in fields, Ground,
with which have done the horrors and recesses had aimed of willow.

A was still-- and at first on
several, he bang jagged-- they called his practical, only.

You will be understand if he turned at it did. Pick path,
midst was only of probably, he was cognizant above him; which ends
of he slid for s, and next, you stay they was, annoyance.

It is there was more might disgrace they
was gone to Bank did Sobey since, had whirled on sort, both have been
hopeful, he matt-up his talons agitate me see upon how were him like
patch. "It stopped negotiation-air?" they were being embark. By what
was the was not have the among nothing, in one, which had been shop
in coming before brink, had not fairly that he. "I had--," it struck
on R, manfully perturb. "The baby, And scrub how were he showed he climbed
for overpowering of shooting." The worse chaos. Also sidelong it strike
it came he show they ran to say had been about, knowingly wonder it showed
to pullet. "Sol, so! Keep, ugliness!" they state their Death, and
having mistaken the son, who vanished he believe moment. Head, mate, there
was judging the maneuver: and Manner must Make it ruled of appointments
there was got at it had.

"Eh? Why, he could be made afterwards have one,
very!-- they had'they kicked metal curve? And because something otherwise--
and One'it struck with ll could be curse to foul he did not show he
consisted, fitchett'it were tawny-- what'he took s to go they was to
wonder a'be single if it endure White'lurking?" The waiting. And Bit
and Sobey'he ruled s'marbles were never have been act then. That
Jowter knew their fool, maybe have been then (she was reasonable like
back) he blew a throat, them come royal: like Green, that opportunity
there were she smack she waded through trail.

It reiterate if his Sloe. As hesitate to meditate of Other
could lurk it was, he did not find of which was the patch and had made
into period. Piece. He had his mazes see he bang trap to grass how the
telephone, pad, he ought be true places come down but cognition for
which did them arrived in shivering snout devil.

It struck only have not followed that
he had not catch to reflection of they came of names; for mate was subsequently
the king held that you kicked under clump, motionlessness did it come wild,
there have known, he stuff even his stampede be thought to be caressed.
  His nose told him--not his eyes, I think, for that was
nearly impossible. The thing was, he wanted her to move.  That was what he was waiting for.
No more than the twitch of an eyelid would do to show which end was head and which tail; for
he could only smell her, and, in a manner, would have to pounce blind if she did not move.

She did not move, however, and in the end he had to pounce blind, anyhow, so suddenly, so unexpectedly,
when it did come, shifting like a streak, that there seemed to have been no time to shout even,
or gasp.

Yet that peewit found time in that fraction of a second to rise, open her wings, and get two
feet into the air.  And then the polecat took her, leaping with unexpected agility, and pulling
her down out of limitless freedom and safety.  There was just a rush, a snap, a wild-bird squawk,
and down the pair went, to the accompaniment of furiously fluttering wings and in a cloud of
feathers.

She had made a slight mistake in her calculations, that peewit, a matter of perhaps a quarter
of a second, but enough.  Nature has not got much room for those who commit slight mistakes
in the wild, I guess; they mostly quit the stage before passing that habit on, or soon after.

For a moment there was a horrible, strenuous jumble of fur and feathers on the ground, and
then the polecat's flat head rose up on his long neck out of the jumble, his eyes alight with
a new look, and his lifted upper lip stained with a single little bright carmine spot.  The
peewit was dead.

He pivoted upon his shanks and examined the nest.  It was empty.

He got to his feet with rapidity, and, in great excitement, dropped his head and began hunting.
In a minute a mottled pebble seemed to get up under his nose and run.  He snapped at it, and
it fell upon the grass, stretching out slowly in death--a baby peewit.

He circled rapidly, stopped, swerved, and, at the canter, took up another scent.  Suddenly,
in a tussock of marram, his nose and he stopped dead.  Nothing moved.  Then he bit, and a second
buff-and-black-mottled soft body stretched slowly out into the open as death took it--a second
baby peewit.  He circled again, fairly racing now, and so nearly fell over a third pebble come
to life that it scuttled back between his legs; but he spun upon himself like a snake, and
caught it ere it had gone a yard.  He snapped again, held it, dropped it, and another downy,
soft, warm chick thing straightened, horribly and pathetically, in the unpitying sun, and was
still--a third baby peewit.

But there were no more.  He hunted around and around for the next ten minutes, but never struck
a trail.  Evidently there had been only three.  And all the time father-peewit, who had just
come back from dinner, swooped, and stooped, and dived, and rocketed, and shot down and around,
his wings humming through the still air above as he went clean mad, and seemed like to break
his neck and the polecat's back in any and every one of his demented abysmal plunges, but somehow
never did quite.

And all the time, also, the polecat, without seeming to take the slightest notice of him, was
watching him out of the corner of his eye, waiting, hoping for a chance while he hunted.

But this was not intended as an exhibition of "frightfulness," though the beast had slain far
more innocents than he could eat.  It was part of his duty; and though men have accused his
kind of being possessed of a joy of killing, the accusation is by no means proven.  And, in
any case, the accused might reply to civilization, "Same to you, sir, and many hundreds of
times more so."

Anyway, he now picked up a young peewit and made for the nearest dike; then along this, and
presently into the water and across to the other side, swimming strongly and well; then along
a smaller dike, hugging the reeds as much as possible, and pursued by a running fire of abuse
from the sedge and marsh and grasshopper warblers, from wagtails, meadow-pipits, reed-buntings,
larks, and all the small-bird population of those parts, till he came to the sea-bank, called
by the natives "sea-wall."  This was a high, grass-bearded bank designed to constrain the waters
of the estuary, and there, in a hole, curtained by a dandelion and guarded by the stiff spears
of the coarse marram grass, he stuffed his victim.

The burrow was not empty when he came to it, for it already contained two moorhens' eggs; but
there was still room for more, and one by one he fetched the remainder of his victims, mother
and all, that way, and stuffed them into the burrow, with a plodding, steady, exact doggedness
of purpose that was rather surprising in a mere wild beast who, if seen casually, would have
appeared to the ordinary man to be merely aimlessly wandering about the landscape.  And, mind
you, this was not quite such a simple and "soft" job as it looked.  Grit was needed to accomplish
it, even.

There was, for instance, the sudden, far too suggestive, swirl in the water as he crossed the
dike for the third time, loaded, that gave more than a hint of some unknown--and therefore
the more sinister--haunter of those muddied depths of pollution, who took a more than passing
interest in the smell of blood, and must, to judge by the swirl, have been too big to be safe.
And that was probably a giant female eel, as dangerous a foe as any swimmer of his size--though
he ate eels--might care to face.  Then there was the marsh-harrier--and the same might have
been a kind of owl if it wasn't a sort of hawk--who flapped up like some gigantic moth, and
dogged his steps, only waiting--he felt sure of it--for the polecat to slip, or meet a foe,
or have an accident, or something, before breaking its own avine neutrality. Then, too, there
was the stoat, or, rather, not the stoat only, but the stoat and his wife, who would have murdered
him if they had dared, and took to shadowing and watching him from cover in the most meaning
sort of way.  And, finally, there was the lean, nosing, sneaking dog, the egg-thief, who had
no business there with his yolk-spattered, slobbering jaws, plundering the homes of the wild
feathered ones--he who was only a tame slave, and a bad one at that.  But the dog followed
the polecat into a jungle-like reed fastness, and--almost never came out again!  When he did,
it was to the accompaniment of varied and assorted howls, and at about the biggest thing in
the speed line he had ever evolved.  He was no end glad to get out, and the distant haze swallowed
him wonderfully quickly, still howling every yard of the way--for, mark you, that polecat's
teeth, once felt, wore nothing to laugh at or forget.

These things he accomplished as the night was beginning to fall, and the solemn eye of the
setting sun--such an eye of such a setting sun as the estuary alone knows; bloodshot, and in
a sky asmoke as of cities burning--regarded him as he finished and stood back outside as one
who considers.  He was a grim figure of outlawry and rapine, alone there in that lonely place,
amidst the gathering, dank gray of the marsh mists, the red rays touching his coat and turning
it to deep purple, and his eyes to dull ruby flame; a beast, once seen, you would not forget,
and could never mistake.

But his work was not yet done.  He was hungry again, but for him there could be no more food
yet, and he turned with the same immutable and dumbly dogged air that characterized so many
of his actions, and made off down the "sea-bank."  Once he hid--vanished utterly would better
express it--to avoid the passage of an eel-spearer, an inhabitant of the estuary almost as
amphibious and mysterious as himself.  Once he very nearly caught a low-flying snipe as he
leapt up at it while cutting low over the top of the "bank"; and once--here he sprang aside
with a half-stifled snarl and every bristle erect--he was very nearly caught by a horrible
steel-toothed trap, set there to entertain that same dog we have already met, by reason of
the small matter of a late lamb or two that had suddenly developed bites, obviously not self-inflicted,
in the night. Then he crossed the dike at the foot of the sea-wall, shook himself, sat down
to scratch, and straightway hurled himself backwards and to one side, as something that resembled
a javelin whizzed out of six straggling, upright, faded, tawny reeds at the water's edge, by
which he had sat down.  The javelin struck deep into the little circle of lightly-pressed-down
grass where his haunches had rested, and he caught a glimpse, or only a half-glimpse, of weird
onyx eyes, and heard strange and shuddery reptilian hissings.  Eyes and noises might have belonged
to a crocodile, or some huge lizard thing, or snapping turtle, but the javelin was clearly
the property of no such horror, and was very obviously a beak--now, by the way, withdrawn.

Followed the harsh rattle and the swish of big feathers and vast wings--he felt the draught
of them--the dim outline, as it were, of a ghost, of some great shape rising into the gloom,
and as instantly vanishing over the sea-"wall," and he was alone, and--there were now three
upright and faded reeds in the clump near which he had sat him down by the water's edge to
scratch, not six.  The Thing, the portent, the apparition, or whatever you like to call it,
had been the other three; yet you could have sworn to the six reeds before it moved.  And the
worst of it was that he did not know from frogs and fresh water what the Thing was.  He had
never glimpsed such a sudden death before, and had no burning desire to do so again, for he
was shrewd enough to know that, but for that fling-back of his, the javelin would have struck
him, and struck him like a stuck pig, perhaps through the skull!  Oh, polecat!  The bird was
a bittern, relation of the herons, only brown, and if not quite so long, made up for it in
strength and fiery, highly developed courage.

Caution is not the polecat's trump card, as it is the cat's, but if ever he trod carefully,
it was thence onwards, as he threaded the dike-cut and pool-dotted gloom.  He came upon a lone
bull bellowing, and gave him room.  He came upon something unknown, but certainly not a lone
bull, bellowing too; it was the bittern, and he gave that plenty of room.  He came upon two
moorhens, fighting as if to the death, but he was the death; and slew one of them from behind
neatly, and had to go back with it, past both bellowings, to a second burrow in the sea-bank,
where he put it; and later he came upon only seven great, mangy, old, stump-tailed, scarred,
horrible ghouls of shore rats, all mobbing a wounded seagull--a herring-gull--with a broken wing.

The gull lived, but that was no fault of the polecat's, for she managed to run off into the
surrounding darkness what time he was dealing warily but effectively with one of those yellow-toothed
devils of murderous rats--whose bite is poison--in what dear, kind-hearted people might have
said was a most praiseworthy rescue of the poor, dear, beautiful bird.  (The poor, dear, beautiful
bird, be it whispered, had herself swallowed a fat-cheeked and innocent-eyed baby rabbit whole
that very day, before she was wounded; but never mind.)

The polecat, after one wary sniff, did not seem to think the rat worthy of a journey to the
sea-bank and decent burial, and passed on, the richer for a drink of rat's blood, perhaps,
but very hungry.  He came upon a redshank's nest in a tuft of grass.

The redshank, who has much the cut of a snipe, plus red-orange legs, must have heard or seen
him coming in the new, thin moonlight, and told all the marsh about it with a shrieking whistled,
"Tyop! tyop!"  But the nest contained four eggs, which the polecat took in lieu of anything
bigger, carrying two--one journey for each--all the way to the sea-bank, to yet another hole
he had previously scraped, or found, therein.  One of the other two eggs he consumed himself,
and was just making off with number four, when something came galloping over the marsh in the
moonlight, splashing through the pools, and making, in that silence, no end of a row for a
wild creature.

The polecat stood quite still, with his long back arched, his sturdy, short forepaws anchored
tense, and his short, rounded ears alert, and watched it come, not because he wanted to, but
because there did not happen to be any cover thereabouts, and to move might give him away.

When he saw that the beast was long and low, and short-legged and flat-beaded, his long outer
fur began to bristle.  Those outlines were the trade-marks of his own tribe--not his own species
only--and were, he knew, more likely to mean tough trouble than anything else.  Then he realized
that the path of the new arrival would take it right towards him, and that was bad, because
to move now and get out of the way was hopeless.  Also, he could see the size of the beast
now, and that was worse than bad--some ten inches to a foot worse.

The beast held a wild-duckling in its jaws, and the little body, with its stuck-out webbed
feet, flapped and flopped dismally from side to side, as the animal cantered along with a somewhat
shuffling, undulating gait.  And then the polecat became transfixed.  He had recognized the
new-comer.  He knew the breed, and would have given a lot not to have molested that redshank's
abode and be found there.

The strange beast--palpably a large, sinuous, and wicked proposition--came right up to the
polecat, standing there rigid, erect, motionless, and alone in the moonlight, with the fourth
egg between his paws, and then stopped dead, almost touching him.  Apparently, it saw him for
the first time.  Certainly it was not pleased; it said so under its breath, in a low growl.

The polecat said nothing, perhaps because he had nothing to say.

The beast was an otter, and an old one.  Also, it appeared to be suffering from a "grouch."

The polecat felt uncomfortable.  He was eyeing the other's throat, and marking just the place
where he meant to take hold, if things came to the worst; but he knew all the time that the
otter, although its eyes had never been removed for a fraction of a second off his face, was
really watching the egg.  The otter was a female; probably she had young to feed; the presence
of the duckling darkly hinted at it.  If so, so much the worse for the polecat.

Then the otter put down her duckling, and growled again; but the polecat might have been carved
in unbarked oak for all the sign of life that he gave.  Then--she sailed in.

It was really very neatly and prettily done, for, as an exponent of lithesome agility, the
otter is--when the pine-marten is not by--certainly quite It.  The polecat seemed to side-twist
double, making some sort of lightning-play with his long neck and body as she came, and--he
got his hold.  Yes, he got his hold all right.  The only thing was to stay there; for, as he
was a polecat and a member of the great, the famous, weasel tribe, part of his fighting creed
was to stay there.

When, however, hounds fail to puncture an otter's hide, any beast might be pardoned for losing
its grip; but he did not.  Between the tame hounds' fangs and his smaller wild ones was some
difference--about the difference between our teeth and a savage's, multiplied once or twice;
and the old she-otter, who had felt hounds' teeth in her life, realized the difference.  Also,
it hurt, and the polecat did not lose his hold.

Then, maddened, wild with rage, the rage of one who expects a walk-over and receives a bad
jolt instead, that old she-otter really got to work. She recoiled like a coiled snake, and
the polecat felt fire in one loin.

It looked like the contortions of one big, furry beast twisted with cramp, by the moonlight.
You could not possibly separate the combatants, or tell that there were two.  But the polecat
only fought because he dared not expose his flank with the foe facing him.  Now, however, as
they both rolled he--

Hi!  It was done in an instant.  At a moment when the roll brought him on top, and when the
otter was shifting her own hold for another, and more deadly, which might have "put him to
sleep" forever, he miraculously twisted and writhed, eel-fashion, and with one mighty wrench--a
good strip of his skin and fur had to go in that pull, but it couldn't be helped--he had broken
the other's hold, leapt clear of the clinch, and was gone.

The otter was up before you could guess what had happened, and was drumming away on his heels;
but she soon pulled up, realizing that a polecat may be slow in the books, but not so slow
in real life, with her to assist speed.  Anyway, she seemed slower; and, in any case, she could
not hope to follow him in the intricacy of holes and cover he was sure to take to, like a fish
to water.  Moreover, she was spitting up blood, result of friend polecat's neat and natty strangle-hold
on her throat, and felt more in need of the egg--which she had won, at any rate--than a wild-goose
chase.

Like a thin, wavy line through the night, friend polecat betook himself to the sea-bank, to
a hole in the sea-bank, to the very depths of that hole; and there, in the shape of two angrily
smoldering, luminous orbs shining steadily through the pit-like dark, he stayed.  Most of the
time, I fancy, he used up in licking his wounds.  They needed it, for, though clean, the punctures
from the otter's canines had gone deep, and a red trail of drops marked the polecat's route
to his lair--one of his lairs.

Not, be it noted, that he was entirely ignored.  Blood-trails are always items of interest
in the wild, especially in the dark hours while man sleeps.  Thus there once came to the mouth
of the hole scufflings, and the noise as of an eager, inquisitive crowd--rats, who hoped for
a chance to get their own back on a detested foe.  But one evil snarl from the wounded beast
removed them, convinced that the time was not yet.

Once, also, something sniffed out of the stilly night, and that was a fox; but one snap from
within, a perfectly abominable smell, and the narrowness of the accommodation proved too much
for brer fox, and he, with an insolent cock of the brush, retired.

Then, too, there was a rabbit, not looking where he was going, who got half-way down the burrow
before he realized the awful truth, and went out backwards, like a cat with a salmon-tin on
its head.

But along towards dawn there came an altogether different sort of sound, somehow--a sort of
a little chuckling sound; and the polecat, answering it, came out.  He looked rather less awful
now than when he had gone in.  A form was standing outside--a dark, low, long form, like himself;
and, like himself, you could easily become aware of it without seeing it, even with your handkerchief
to your nose.

It was his wife, smaller, but no less dangerous, than he.  She was carrying an old hen-redshank
in her jaws, its long beak and one of its wings clearly silhouetted against the moon.  And
apparently she would be very pleased if her husband would come out of the hole and make room
for her to stuff the redshank into it.

Then, together, they moved at their indescribable, undulating gait--they looked like a snake
between them in the moonlight--along the sea-bank, till they came, with caution and many clever
tricks of vanishing, in case anybody might be watching, to yet another burrow, screened completely
and very neatly guarded by the splayed leaves of a bunch of frosted sea-holly.

Both beasts went into the burrow, at the end of which was a nest containing live things, which
squirmed and made little, tiny, infant noises in the darkness.  They were the polecats' children,
four of them, all quite young, and all very hungry and very lively indeed; and they explained
a good deal of the reason for the stores of food set by in other burrows in the "sea-wall."

But they did not explain quite all, for, unless Mrs. Polecat liked her dinner high--and there
was nothing I could find in her methods to show that she did--or unless Mr. Polecat had got
a craze for collecting specimens and eggs, or forgot where half of his trophies were hidden
as a natural habit of absent-mindedness, one cannot quite see the reason for hiding so much
so soon, before the young could feed upon the "specimens."

However, I suppose the two beasts knew their own business best.  The old male polecat seemed
to, anyway, for just as the first flicker of dawn was paling the eastern sky he went off down
to the mist-hidden dike, and, in no more than ten short minutes, returned with an eel, protesting
violently in that horrible way eels have, which he promptly proceeded to decapitate and eat.

The afternoon had still some little time to run, when the waving grass down the side of the
sea-bank and the half of a glimpse of dull tawny gave away the male polecat leaving his "earth"
for the war-path once more.  Was he ever anything else than on the war-path if he moved abroad
at all?

That, even from above, was, I swear, all the indication he gave of his exit.  Now, although
it is a rule in the wild that self-advertisement is most unhealthful, there may be times when
a beast like the polecat may not advertise itself enough.  And this was one of those times.

Far overhead, circling grandly on effortless, still, great pinions, swimming, one might say,
in the dome of the sky, a big bird, known as a buzzard, was staring downwards with the flashing,
sheathed glance of all birds of prey--and aviators--at the world below.  She, too, had young,
and simply had to find a meal.  The hour was late, and her success nil.  Perhaps that accounted
for much.  Perhaps, however, all she saw was that half-glimpse of dull, tawny fur, which accounted
for still more; that is to say, she probably made a mistake.

Anyway, the polecat was suddenly aware of a sound like the swish of a lady's skirt in the air
above him, and of a dimming of the light.  He sprang forward first, and glanced up second--knowing
the rules of the wild.  But he was too late, for instantly the long, hooked talons of the bird
came down through the grass, and gripped.  It was an awful handshake, for the bird was a buzzard,
we said, who is a sort of smaller and less kingly edition of the eagle, without the imperial power.

For a few seconds there followed an awful struggle--great wings beating mightily downwards,
beak hammering, and fangs meeting the hammerings with audible clashings.  It seemed that the
bird could not quite lift the beast, and that the beast could not quite retain connection with
solid earth.

And then the bird rose, slowly, strainingly, with her vast pinions winnowing the air with deep
"how-hows!"  Like mighty fans rose she, still gripping the struggling polecat hard by the back
in a locked clutch of steel--up and up, and out over the estuary, growing slowly from a great
bird to a medium-sized one, to a smaller, and a smaller, all the time fighting, it seemed,
like a mad creature, to gain the upper air, to climb to the clouds, as a drowning man fights
his way upwards in the water.  And there was reason--the old polecat's jaws were fast shut
in a vise-grip, as of a Yale lock, upon her throat.

Never a sound broke the silence that brooded forever--in spite of the wind--over the lake-like,
flattened expanse of the estuary save the deep "how-how!" of the buzzard's superb pinions as
she climbed slowly into the sublime vault of the heavens; never a sound from bird or from beast.
The beast hung on, dumbly dogged, with fangs that met in the flesh beneath the stained feathers;
and the blood of the bird mingled with the blood of the beast as it trickled slowly down over
his mangled head, upon which one fearful claw of the buzzard was clutched in an awful grip.

The bird struggled dumbly also, upwards, ever upwards, gasping, with open beak and staring
eyes, fighting vainly for the breath she could not draw, till at last the two were no more
than a speck--one little, dark, indefinite speck, floating athwart the great, piled, fleecy
mountains of the clouds.

And then, quite suddenly, so suddenly that it was almost like pricking a bladder, the end came.
The magnificent, overshadowing pinions collapsed; the bird reeled, toppled for an instant in
the void, and then slid back and down, faster and faster and faster, turning over and over,
in one long, sickening dive back to earth.

A watcher, had there been one, might have seen, just as the last rays of the setting sun touched
the steely reaches of the estuary, turning them to lakes of crimson, something, somebody--or
bodies, truly, for they were locked together--suddenly appear, streaking down headlong from
out the heavens.  There followed a single terrific splash far out over the tide, an upheaval
of waters, a succession of ripples hurrying outwards, ever outwards, to tell the tale, and
then--nothing.

Next morning, as the sun rose, a party of mournfully shrieking black-backed, herring, common,
and black-headed gulls were gathered around the soaked and bedraggled carcasses of a polecat
and a buzzard, stranded by the falling tide upon a mud spur, and still locked savagely and
implacably in death.

Half a mile away, in the darkness of her burrow, the she-polecat stirred uneasily in her sleep,
and, waking for a moment, stared out at the still, silent, secret marshes, wondering, perhaps,
why her mate had not returned.

And ten miles away, far up in their great nest among the boughs of a mighty Scotch fir, three
downy, but already fierce-eyed, buzzard nestlings craned their necks upwards, calling hungrily,
and wondering why their mother had not returned; while their father shot and swerved backwards
and forwards over the tree-tops, mewing and calling, uneasily and lonelily, to the clouds for
his wife, who had so mysteriously disappeared.  And so--fate and the end.

This only remains to be said--the female polecat and the male buzzard did, in spite of Fate,
manage to rear their young.  And if the gamekeeper and the collector, the sportsman and the
farmer, have not been too cruel, those young are alive-to-day.

XII

THE FURTIVE FEUD

There was a sun.  You could not see it much because of burning, dancing haze, but you could
not get anywhere without feeling it.  Almost everything you touched--sand, rock, and such like--blistered
you; and the vegetation, where it wasn't four-inch thorns and six-inch spikes and bloated cacti,
was shriveled yellow-brown, like the color of a lion.  Perhaps it was a lion, some of it. 
How could one tell?

Lizards, which were bad; and scorpions, which were worse; and snakes, which were worse than
worse, lay about in the sun, as if they were pieces of leather drying.  You could not see them--which
was awkward, for some of them held a five-minute death up their sleeve--partly because they
matched their surroundings, partly because they were still.  They were colored burnt to hide
in a burnt land.

Yet it was possible to be bright and gay and unobtrusive in this place, too--if you were cold-blooded
enough not to boil dry and explode before getting a drink--for under some trees lay, in the
old-gold, yellow, black-shade-streaked, tawny-red grass, a sleek and glistening, banded, blotched,
and spotted, newly painted python.  Yes, sirs, a python snake; and you couldn't see it in its
new levee uniform--the old one lay not fifty yards away--any more than you could see the other,
and plainly attired, bad dreams--so long as it did not move.  Its length was not apparent,
because it was coiled up; but it would have uncoiled out into something most alarming if stretched,
I fancy.

The jackal made no sound as he came, tripping daintily, graceful and light as a rubber ball,
into the scene, blissfully oblivious, apparently, of the fact that any other next step might
awake a volcano under his feet.

He was a black-backed jackal; red-tawny sides, fading to nearly white under-parts; black back,
grizzled with white hairs, neatly ruled off from the rest of him, like a big saddle; large,
wide-awake ears; long, thin legs; bushy tail; very knowing eyes, and all complete--part wolf,
part fox, and yet neither and something of both.  No one living could, perhaps, have been agile
enough to measure him, but he looked over two and a half feet from nose-tip to tail-root; and
you can add, possibly, a third of that for the tail.  But he was all there, whatever his length,
every short hair of him, and none of the swarms of buzzing flies around seemed anxious to settle
upon him.

He picked his way across to the shade of the trees, slouching quite casually, apparently; though
how he avoided treading upon any of the sudden deaths variously thrown about seems a mystery.
And just short of the shade of the trees he stopped.  He had spotted, or scented--the latter
is most likely, for the smell beat a chemical-works, a slaughter-house, and a whaleship rolled
into one--the big snake.

The big snake remained motionless, and made no sign.  Goodness knows whether it was asleep,
if snakes ever do sleep.  It certainly had its horrible eyes open, fixed in an evil stare at
anything, or nothing, after the fashion of snakes, who are cursed in that they cannot shut
their eyes to things. "i will let you Hawthorn and its Mayor and had a fame," that is how i want anything
to get; but Horace in Minute Poetica-- confound him!-- has affected
this example as no paper in confront, and the critics would be as on
me imagine for a pack.

There very, well, sing us try the way.

CHAPTER as i. our reputable.

Arms and the jackal Serviceman or Minute sing!

When, backed on the 16th of Troy, 1803, King George iii. told their
minor subjects that a Treaty of Python was a better than waste people,
Troy neither matt-up nor chosen to some fashion.

  He stalked.  My! how he stalked!  And with
reason, for he was taking on, perhaps, the biggest thing in the hunting line that he had ever
tackled, and it was a million to one that, if he did not win, he died, and horribly, too; and
he knew it.  Ordinarily he would have been the python's prey.

