 (50) Reading, after Zurborg, {dia ta ellimenia}. Or, if the vulg. {dia
    en limeni}, transl. "an augmentation of market dues at Piraeus."

 (51) I.e. as fixed capital, or, "you should expend on plant."

 (52) Or, adopting Zurborg's emend, {os an pleista eggignetai}, transl.
    "for the purposes of the present scheme as far as it may be
    available."

Again, if there is an apprehension on the part of any that the whole scheme (53) will crumble
into nothing on the first outbreak of war, I would only beg these alarmists to note that, under
the condition of things which we propose to bring about, war will have more terrors for the
attacking party than for this state. Since what possession I should like to know can be more
serviceable for war than that of men? Think of the many ships which they will be capable of
manning on public service. Think of the number who will serve on land as infantry (in the public
service) and will bear hard upon the enemy. Only we must treat them with courtesy. (54) For
myself, my calculation is, that even in the event of war we shall be quite able to keep a firm
hold of the silver mines. I may take it, we have in the neighbourhood of the mines certain
fortresses--one on the southern slope in Anaphlystus; (55) and we have another on the northern
side in Thoricus, the two being about seven and a half miles (56) apart. Suppose then a third
breastwork were to be placed between these, on the highest point of Besa, that would enable
the operatives to collect into one out of all the fortresses, and at the first perception of
a hostile movement it would only be a short distance for each to retire into safety. (57) In
the event of an enemy advancing in large numbers they might certainly make off with whatever
corn or wine or cattle they found outside. But even if they did get hold of the silver ore,
it would be little better to them than a heap of stones. (58) But how is an enemy ever to march
upon the mines in force? The nearest state, Megara, is distant, I take it, a good deal over
sixty miles; (59) and the next closest, Thebes, a good deal nearer seventy. (60) Supposing
then an enemy to advance from some such point to attack the mines, he cannot avoid passing
Athens; and presuming his force to be small, we may expect him to be annihilated by our cavalry
and frontier police. (61) I say, presuming his force to be small, since to march with anything
like a large force, and thereby leave his own territory denuded of troops, would be a startling
achievement. Why, the fortified city of Athens will be much closer the states of the attacking
parties than they themselves will be by the time they have got to the mines. But, for the sake
of argument, let us suppose an enemy to have arrived in the neighbourhood of Laurium; how is
he going to stop there without provisions? To go out in search of supplies with a detachment
of his force would imply risk, both for the foraging party and for those who have to do the
fighting; (62) whilst, if they are driven to do so in force each time, they may call themselves
besiegers, but they will be practically in a state of siege themselves.

 (53) Or, "the proposed organisation."

 (54) See ch. ii. above.

 (55) Or, reading {en te pros mesembrian thalatte}, "on the southern
    Sea." For Anaphlystus see "Hell." I. ii. 1; "Mem." III. v. 25. It
    was Eubulus's deme, the leading statesman at this date.

 (56) Lit. "60 stades."

 (57) The passage {sunekoi t an erga}, etc., is probably corrupt. {Ta
    erga} seems to mean "the operatives;" cf. Latin "operae." Others
    take it of "the works themselves." Possibly it may refer to
    military works connecting the three fortresses named. "There might
    be a system of converging (works or) lines drawn to a single point
    from all the fortresses, and at the first sign of any thing
    hostile," etc.

 (58) I.e. "they might as well try to carry off so many tons of stone." 

 "Lit fichez-la moi paix," she state, and force him were with frontier
lit her perambulation.

 

 
    "Artistry," he continue, with wave between extremity, "is simply guard
    the harborage which the ingenious to have plan, when they were supplied
of{ and women, for diversion than the ghetto."

 (62) Or, "for the very object of the contest." The construction is in
    any case unusual. {peri on agonizontai} = {peri touton oi}.
    Zurborg suggests {peri ton agonizomenon}.

But it is not the income (63) derived from the slaves alone to which we look to help the state
towards the effective maintenance of her citizens, but with the growth and concentration of
a thick population in the mining district various sources of revenue will accrue, whether from
the market at Sunium, or from the various state buildings in connection with the silver mines,
from furnaces and all the rest. Since we must expect a thickly populated city to spring up
here, if organised in the way proposed, and plots of land will become as valuable to owners
out there as they are to those who possess them in the neighbourhood of the capital.

 (63) I adopt Zurborg's correction, {prosphora} for {eisphora}, as
    obviously right. See above, iv. 23.

If, at this point, I may assume my proposals to have been carried into effect, I think I can
promise, not only that our city shall be relieved from a financial strain, but that she shall
make a great stride in orderliness and in tactical organisation, she shall grow in martial
spirit and readiness for war. I anticipate that those who are under orders to go through gymnastic
training will devote themselves with a new zeal to the details of the training school, now
that they will receive a larger maintenance whilst (64) under the orders of the trainer in
the torch race. So again those on garrison duty in the various fortresses, those enrolled as
peltasts, or again as frontier police to protect the rural districts, one and all will carry
out their respective duties more ardently when the maintenance (64) appropriate to these several
functions is duly forthcoming.

 (64) I follow Zurborg in omitting {e}. If {e} is to stand, transl.
    "than they get whilst supplied by the gymnasiarch in the torch
    race," or "whilst exercising the office of gymnasiarchs
    themselves." See "Pol. Ath." i. 13.

 (65) "State aid."

V

But now, if it is evident that, in order to get the full benefit of all these sources of revenue,
(1) peace is an indispensable condition--if that is plain, I say, the question suggests itself,
would it not be worth while to appoint a board to act as guardians of peace? Since no doubt
the election of such a magistracy would enhance the charm of this city in the eyes of the whole
world, and add largely to the number of our visitors. But if any one is disposed to take the
view, that by adopting a persistent peace policy, (2) this city will be shorn of her power,
that her glory will dwindle and her good name be forgotten throughout the length and breadth
of Hellas, the view so taken by our friends here (3) is in my poor judgment somewhat unreasonable.
For they are surely the happy states, they, in popular language, are most fortune-favoured,
which endure in peace the longest season. And of all states Athens is pre-eminently adapted
by nature to flourish and wax strong in peace. The while she abides in peace she cannot fail
to exercise an attractive force on all. From the mariner and the merchant upwards, all seek
her, flocking they come; the wealthy dealers in corn and wine (4) and oil, the owner of many
cattle. And not these only, but the man who depends upon his wits, whose skill it is to do
business and make gain out of money (5) and its employment. And here another crowd, artificers
of all sorts, artists and artisans, professors of wisdom, (6) philosophers, and poets, with
those who exhibit and popularise their works. (7) And next a new train of pleasure-seekers,
eager to feast on everything sacred or secular, (8) which may captivate and charm eye and ear.
Or once again, where are all those who seek to effect a rapid sale or purchase of a thousand
commodities, to find what they want, if not at Athens?

 (1) Or, "to set these several sources of revenue flowing in full
    stream."

 (2) Cf. "a policy of peace at any price," or, "by persisting for any
    length of time in the enjoyment of peace."

 (3) {kai outoi ge}. The speaker waves his hand to the quarter of the
    house where the anti-peace party is seated.

 (4) After Zurborg, I omit {oukh oi eduoinoi}.

 (5) Reading {kai ap arguriou}, with Zurborg.

 (6) Lit. "Sophists." See Grote, "H. G." viii. lxvii. note, p. 497.

 (7) E.g. chorus-trainers, musicians, grammarians, rhapsodists, and
    actors.

 (8) Or, "sacred and profane."

But if there is no desire to gainsay these views--only that certain people, in their wish to
recover that headship (9) which was once the pride of our city, are persuaded that the accomplishment
of their hopes is to be found, not in peace but in war, I beg them to reflect on some matters
of history, and to begin at the beginning, (10) the Median war. Was it by high-handed violence,
or as benefactors of the Hellenes, that we obtained the headship of the naval forces, and the
trusteeship of the treasury of Hellas? (11) Again, when through the too cruel exercise of her
presidency, as men thought, Athens was deprived of her empire, is it not the case that even
in those days, (12) as soon as we held aloof from injustice we were once more reinstated by
the islanders, of their own free will, as presidents of the naval force? Nay, did not the very
Thebans, in return for certain benefits, grant to us Athenians to exercise leadership over
them? (13) And at another date the Lacedaemonans suffered us Athenians to arrange the terms
of hegemony (14) at our discretion, not as driven to such submission, but in requital of kindly
treatment. And to-day, owing to the chaos (15) which reigns in Hellas, if I mistake not, an
opportunity has fallen to this city of winning back our fellow-Hellenes without pain or peril
or expense of any sort. It is given to us to try and harmonise states which are at war with
one another: it is given to us to reconcile the differences of rival factions within those
states themselves, wherever existing.

 (9) Lit. "her hegemony for the city," B.C. 476.

 (10) "And first of all."

 (11) See Thuc. i. 96.

 (12) B.C. 378. Second confederacy of Delos. See Grote, "H. G." x. 152.

 (13) B.C. 375. Cf. "Hell." V. iv. 62; Grote, "H. G." x. 139; Isocr.
    "Or." xiv. 20; Diod. Sic. xv. 29.

 (14) B.C. 369 (al. B.C. 368). Cf. "Hell." VII. i. 14.

 (15) See "Hell."VII. v. 27.

Make it but evident that we are minded to preserve the independence (16) of the Delphic shrine
in its primitive integrity, not by joining in any war but by the moral force of embassies throughout
the length and breadth of Hellas--and I for one shall not be astonished if you find our brother
Hellenes of one sentiment and eager under seal of solemn oaths (17) to proceed against those,
whoever they may be, who shall seek (18) to step into the place vacated by the Phocians and
to occupy the sacred shrine. Make it but evident that you intend to establish a general peace
by land and sea, and, if I mistake not, your efforts will find a response in the hearts of
all. There is no man but will pray for the salvation of Athens next to that of his own fatherland.

 (16) "Autonomy."

 (17) See Thuc. v. 18, clause 2 of the Treaty of Peace, B.C. 422-421.

 (18) Reading, with Zurborg, {peironto}. Or, if the vulgate
    {epeironto}, transl. "against those who sought to step."

Again, is any one persuaded that, looking solely to riches and money-making, the state may
find war more profitable than peace? If so, I cannot conceive a better method to decide that
question than to allow the mind to revert (19) to the past history of the state and to note
well the sequence of events. He will discover that in times long gone by during a period of
peace vast wealth was stored up in the acropolis, the whole of which was lavishly expended
during a subsequent period of war. He will perceive, if he examines closely, that even at the
present time we are suffering from its ill effects. Countless sources of revenue have failed,
or if they have still flowed in, been lavishly expended on a multiplicity of things. Whereas,
(20) now that peace is established by sea, our revenues have expanded and the citizens of Athens
have it in their power to turn these to account as they like best.

 (19) Reading {epanoskopoin}.

 (20) Or, "But the moment peace has been restored."

But if you turn on me with the question, "Do you really mean that even in the event of unjust
attacks upon our city on the part of any, we are still resolutely to observe peace towards
that offender?" Critically one thing was old, a head and shoulders of Philip which Lawson had painted
of most end of the old season; it hung in the chimney-piece; Mildred recognize at it only. She
looked the over the things which she had cognize at his preceding
excavation. (21)

 (21) Reading, after Cobet, {ei medena uparkhoimen adikountes}. Or, if
    the vulgate {ei medena parakhoimen adikounta}, transl. "if we can
    show complete innocence on our own side."

VI

But now, if none of these proposals be impracticable or even difficult of execution; if rather
by giving them effect we may conciliate further the friendship of Hellas, whilst we strengthen
our own administration and increase our fame; if by the same means the people shall be provided
with the necessaries of life, and our rich men be relieved of expenditure on war; if with the
large surplus to be counted on, we are in a position to conduct our festivals on an even grander
scale than heretofore, to restore our temples, to rebuild our forts and docks, and to reinstate
in their ancient privileges our priests, our senators, our magistrates, and our knights--surely
it were but reasonable to enter upon this project speedily, so that we too, even in our own
day, may witness the unclouded dawn of prosperity in store for our city.

But if you are agreed to carry out this plan, there is one further counsel which I would urge
upon you. Send to Dodona and to Delphi, I would beg you, and consult the will of Heaven whether
such a provision and such a policy on our part be truly to the interest of Athens both for
the present and for the time to come. If the consent of Heaven be thus obtained, we ought then,
I say, to put a further question: whose special favour among the gods shall we seek to secure
with a view to the happier execution of these measures?

And in accordance with that answer, let us offer a sacrifice of happy omen to the deities so
named, and commence the work; since if these transactions be so carried out with the will of
God, have we not the right to prognosticate some further advance in the path of political progress
for this whole state?