"Oh, well, cheer up!" cried Uncle Jack.  "I guess he's not lost--only mislaid.  I'll go and
find him before you can say Jack Robinson!"

"I'll go, too, if you please, sir," said Sarah Maud, "for it was my place to mind him, an'
if he's lost I can't relish my vittles!"

The other Ruggleses stood rooted to the floor.  Was this a dinner party, forsooth; and, if
so, why were such things ever spoken of as festive occasions?

Sarah Maud went out through the hall, calling, "Larry!  Larry!" and without any interval of
suspense a thin voice piped up from below, "Here I be!"  The truth was that Larry, being deserted
by his natural guardian, dropped behind the rest, and wriggled into the hat-tree to wait for
her, having no notion of walking unprotected into the jaws of a dinner-party.  Finding that
she did not come, he tried to crawl from his refuge and call somebody, when--dark and dreadful
ending to a tragic day--he found that he was too much intertwined with umbrellas and canes
to move a single step.  He was afraid to yell!  When I have said this of Larry Ruggles I have
pictured a state of helpless terror that ought to wring tears from every eye; and the sound
of Sarah Maud's beloved voice, some seconds later, was like a strain of angel music in his
ears.  Uncle Jack dried his tears, carried him upstairs, and soon had him in breathless fits
of laughter, while Carol so made the other Ruggleses forget themselves that they were soon
talking like accomplished diners-out.

Carol's bed had been moved into the farthest corner of the room, and she was lying on the outside,
dressed in a wonderful soft white wrapper.  Her golden hair fell in soft fluffy curls over
her white forehead and neck, her cheeks flushed delicately, her eyes beamed with joy, and the
children told their mother, afterwards, that she looked as beautiful as the pictures of the
Blessed Virgin.  There was great bustle behind a huge screen in another part of the room, and
at half-past five this was taken away, and the Christmas dinner-table stood revealed.  What
a wonderful sight it was to the poor little Ruggles children, who ate their sometimes scanty
meals on the kitchen table!  It blazed with tall colored candles, it gleamed with glass and
silver, it blushed with flowers, it groaned with good things to eat; so it was not strange
that the Ruggleses, forgetting that their mother was a McGrill, shrieked in admiration of the
fairy spectacle.  But Larry's behavior was the most disgraceful, for he stood not upon the
order of his going, but went at once for a high chair that pointed unmistakably to him, climbed
up like a squirrel, gave a comprehensive look at the turkey, clapped his hands in ecstacy,
rested his fat arms on the table, and cried, with joy, "I beat the hull lot o' yer!"  Carol
laughed until she cried, giving orders, meanwhile, "Uncle Jack, please sit at the head, Sarah
Maud at the foot, and that will leave four on each side; Mama is going to help Elfrida, so
that the children need not look after each other, but just have a good time."

A sprig of holly lay by each plate, and nothing would do but each little Ruggles must leave
his seat and have it pinned on by Carol, and as each course was served one of them pleaded
to take something to her. There was hurrying to and fro, I can assure you, for it is quite
a difficult matter to serve a Christmas dinner on the third floor of a great city house; but
if every dish had had to be carried up a rope ladder the servants would gladly have done so.
There was turkey and chicken, with delicious gravy and stuffing, and there were half-a-dozen
vegetables, with cranberry jelly, and celery, and pickles; and as for the way these delicacies
were served, the Ruggleses never forgot it as long as they lived.

Peter nudged Kitty, who sat next him, and said, "Look, will yer, ev'ry feller's got his own
partic'lar butter; I suppose that's to show yer can eat that much 'n no more.  No, it ain't
neither, for that pig of a Peory's just gittin' another helpin'!"  "Yes," whispered Kitty,
"an' the napkins is marked with big red letters.  I wonder if that's so nobody 'll nip 'em;
an' oh, Peter, look at the pictures painted right on ter the dishes.  Did yer ever!"

"The plums is all took out o' my cramb'ry sarse, an' it's friz to a stiff jell!" shouted Peoria,
in wild excitement.

"Hi--yah!  I got a wish-bone!" sung Larry, regardless of Sarah Maud's frown; after which she
asked to have his seat changed, giving as excuse that he gen'ally set beside her, an' would
"feel strange;" the true reason being that she desired to kick him gently, under the table,
whenever he passed what might be termed "the McGrill line."

"I declare to goodness," murmured Susan, on the other side, "there's so much to look at I can't
scarcely eat nothin!"

"Bet yer life I can!" said Peter, who had kept one servant busily employed ever since he sat
down; for, luckily, no one was asked by Uncle Jack whether he would have a second helping,
but the dishes were quietly passed under their noses, and not a single Ruggles refused anything
that was offered him, even unto the seventh time.  Then, when Carol and Uncle Jack perceived
that more turkey was a physical impossibility, the meats were taken off and the dessert was
brought in--a dessert that would have frightened a strong man after such a dinner as had preceded
it.  Not so the Ruggleses--for a strong man is nothing to a small boy--and they kindled to
the dessert as if the turkey had been a dream and the six vegetables an optical delusion. There
was plum-pudding, mince-pie, and ice-cream, and there were nuts, and raisins, and oranges.
Kitty chose ice-cream, explaining that she knew it "by sight," but hadn't never tasted none;
but all the rest took the entire variety, without any regard to consequences.

"My dear child," whispered Uncle Jack, as he took Carol an orange, "there is no doubt about
the necessity of this feast, but I do advise you after this to have them twice a year, or quarterly,
perhaps, for the way they eat is positively dangerous; I assure you I tremble for that terrible
Peoria.  I'm going to run races with her after dinner."

"Never mind," laughed Carol, "let them eat for once; it does my heart good to see them, and
they shall come oftener next year."

The feast being over, the Ruggleses lay back in their chairs languidly, and the table was cleared
in a trice; then a door was opened into the next room, and there, in a corner facing Carol's
bed, which had been wheeled as close as possible, stood the brilliantly lighted Christmas-tree,
glittering with gilded walnuts and tiny silver balloons, and wreathed with snowy chains of
pop-corn.  The presents had been bought mostly with Carol's story money, and were selected
after long consultations with Mrs. Bird.  Each girl had a blue knitted hood, and each boy a
red crocheted comforter, all made by Mama, Carol and Elfrida ("because if you buy everything,
it doesn't show so much love," said Carol).  Then every girl had a pretty plaid dress of a
different color, and every boy a warm coat of the right size.  Here the useful presents stopped,
and they were quite enough; but Carol had pleaded to give them something "for fun."  "I know
they need the clothes," she had said, when they were talking over the matter just after Thanksgiving,
"but they don't care much for them, after all.  Now, Papa, won't you PLEASE let me go without
part of my presents this year, and give me the money they would cost, to buy something to amuse
them?"

"You can have both," said Mr. Bird, promptly; "is there any need of my little girl's going
without her Christmas, I should like to know? Spend all the money you like."

