Phineas was fond of such discussions and fond of holding them with Mr. Monk,--in this matter
fluttering like a moth round a candle. He would not perceive that as he had made up his mind
to be a servant of the public in Parliament, he must abandon all idea of independent action;
and unless he did so he could be neither successful as regarded himself, or useful to the public
whom he served. Could a man be honest in Parliament, and yet abandon all idea of independence?
When he put such questions to Mr. Monk he did not get a direct answer. And indeed the question
was never put directly. But the teaching which he received was ever of a nature to make him
uneasy. It was always to this effect: "You have taken up the trade now, and seem to be fit
for success in it. You had better give up thinking about its special honesty." And yet Mr.
Monk would on an occasion preach to him such a sermon as that which he had just uttered! Perhaps
there is no question more difficult to a man's mind than that of the expediency or inexpediency
of scruples in political life. Whether would a candidate for office be more liable to rejection
from a leader because he was known to be scrupulous, or because he was known to be the reverse?

"But putting aside the fourth commandment and all the theories, you will come to Ireland?"
said Phineas.

"I shall be delighted."

"I don't live in a castle, you know."

"I thought everybody did live in a castle in Ireland," said Mr. Monk. "They seemed to do when
I was there twenty years ago. But for myself, I prefer a cottage."

This trip to Ireland had been proposed in consequence of certain ideas respecting tenant-right
which Mr. Monk was beginning to adopt, and as to which the minds of politicians were becoming
moved. It had been all very well to put down Fenianism, and Ribandmen, and Repeal,--and everything
that had been put down in Ireland in the way of rebellion for the last seventy-five years.
England and Ireland had been apparently joined together by laws of nature so fixed, that even
politicians liberal as was Mr. Monk,--liberal as was Mr. Turnbull,--could not trust themselves
to think that disunion could be for the good of the Irish. They had taught themselves that
it certainly could not be good for the English. But if it was incumbent on England to force
upon Ireland the maintenance of the Union for her own sake, and for England's sake, because
England could not afford independence established so close against her own ribs,--it was at
any rate necessary to England's character that the bride thus bound in a compulsory wedlock
should be endowed with all the best privileges that a wife can enjoy. Let her at least not
be a kept mistress. Let it be bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, if we are to live together
in the married state. Between husband and wife a warm word now and then matters but little,
if there be a thoroughly good understanding at bottom. But let there be that good understanding
at bottom. What about this Protestant Church; and what about this tenant-right? Mr. Monk had
been asking himself these questions for some time past. In regard to the Church, he had long
made up his mind that the Establishment in Ireland was a crying sin. A man had married a woman
whom he knew to be of a religion different from his own, and then insisted that his wife should
say that she believed those things which he knew very well that she did not believe. But, as
Mr. Monk well knew, the subject of the Protestant Endowments in Ireland was so difficult that
it would require almost more than human wisdom to adjust it. It was one of those matters which
almost seemed to require the interposition of some higher power,--the coming of some apparently
chance event,--to clear away the evil; as a fire comes, and pestilential alleys are removed;
as a famine comes, and men are driven from want and ignorance and dirt to seek new homes and
new thoughts across the broad waters; as a war comes, and slavery is banished from the face
of the earth. But in regard to tenant-right, to some arrangement by which a tenant in Ireland
might be at least encouraged to lay out what little capital he might have in labour or money
without being at once called upon to pay rent for that outlay which was his own, as well as
for the land which was not his own,--Mr. Monk thought that it was possible that if a man would
look hard enough he might perhaps be able to see his way as to that. He had spoken to two of
his colleagues on the subject, the two men in the Cabinet whom he believed to be the most thoroughly
honest in their ideas as public servants, the Duke and Mr. Gresham. There was so much to be
done;--and then so little was known upon the subject! "I will endeavour to study it," said
Mr. Monk. "If you can see your way, do;" said Mr. Gresham,--"but of course we cannot bind ourselves."
"I should be glad to see it named in the Queen's speech at the beginning of the next session,"
said Mr. Monk. "That is a long way off as yet," said Mr. Gresham, laughing. "Who will be in
then, and who will be out?" So the matter was disposed of at the time, but Mr. Monk did not
abandon his idea. He rather felt himself the more bound to cling to it because he received
so little encouragement. What was a seat in the Cabinet to him that he should on that account
omit a duty? He had not taken up politics as a trade. He had sat far behind the Treasury bench
or below the gangway for many a year, without owing any man a shilling,--and could afford to
do so again.

But it was different with Phineas Finn, as Mr. Monk himself understood;--and, understanding
this, he felt himself bound to caution his young friend. But it may be a question whether his
cautions did not do more harm than good. "I shall be delighted," he said, "to go over with
you in August, but I do not think that if I were you, I would take up this matter."

"And why not? You don't want to fight the battle singlehanded?"

"No; I desire no such glory, and would wish to have no better lieutenant than you. But you
have a subject of which you are really fond, which you are beginning to understand, and in
regard to which you can make yourself useful."

"You mean this Canada business?"

"Yes;--and that will grow to other matters as regards the colonies. There is nothing so important
to a public man as that he should have his own subject;--the thing which he understands, and
in respect of which he can make himself really useful."

"Then there comes a change."

"Yes;--and the man who has half learned how to have a ship built without waste is sent into
opposition, and is then brought back to look after regiments, or perhaps has to take up that
beautiful subject, a study of the career of India. But, nevertheless, if you have a subject,
stick to it at any rate as long as it will stick to you."

"But," said Phineas, "if a man takes up his own subject, independent of the Government, no
man can drive him from it."

"And how often does he do anything? Look at the annual motions which come forward in the hands
of private men,--Maynooth and the ballot for instance. It is becoming more and more apparent
every day that all legislation must be carried by the Government, and must be carried in obedience
to the expressed wish of the people. The truest democracy that ever had a chance of living
is that which we are now establishing in Great Britain."

"Then leave tenant-right to the people and the Cabinet. Why should you take it up?"

Mr. Monk paused a moment or two before he replied. "If I choose to run a-muck, there is no
reason why you should follow me. I am old and you are young. I want nothing from politics as
a profession, and you do. Moreover, you have a congenial subject where you are, and need not
disturb yourself. For myself, I tell you, in confidence, that I cannot speak so comfortably
of my own position."

"We will go and see, at any rate," said Phineas.

"Yes," said Mr. Monk, "we will go and see." And thus, in the month of May, it was settled between
them that, as soon as the session should be over, and the incidental work of his office should
allow Phineas to pack up and be off, they two should start together for Ireland. Phineas felt
rather proud as he wrote to his father and asked permission to bring home with him a Cabinet
Minister as a visitor. At this time the reputation of Phineas at Killaloe, as well in the minds
of the Killaloeians generally as in those of the inhabitants of the paternal house, stood very
high indeed. How could a father think that a son had done badly when before he was thirty years
of age he was earning £2,000 a year? And how could a father not think well of a son who had
absolutely paid back certain moneys into the paternal coffers? The moneys so repaid had not
been much; but the repayment of any such money at Killaloe had been regarded as little short
of miraculous. The news of Mr. Monk's coming flew about the town, about the county, about the
diocese, and all people began to say all good things about the old doctor's only son. Mrs.
Finn had long since been quite sure that a real black swan had been sent forth out of her nest.
And the sisters Finn, for some time past, had felt in all social gatherings they stood quite
on a different footing than formerly because of their brother. They were asked about in the
county, and two of them had been staying only last Easter with the Molonys,--the Molonys of
Poldoodie! How should a father and a mother and sisters not be grateful to such a son, to such
a brother, to such a veritable black swan out of the nest! And as for dear little Mary Flood
Jones, her eyes became suffused with tears as in her solitude she thought how much out of her
reach this swan was flying. And yet she took joy in his swanhood, and swore that she would
love him still;--that she would love him always. Might he bring home with him to Killaloe,
Mr. Monk, the Cabinet Minister! Of course he might. When Mrs. Finn first heard of this august
arrival, she felt as though she would like to expend herself in entertaining, though but an
hour, the whole cabinet.

Phineas, during the spring, had, of course, met Mr. Kennedy frequently in and about the House,
and had become aware that Lady Laura's husband, from time to time, made little overtures of
civility to him,--taking him now and again by the button-hole, walking home with him as far
as their joint paths allowed, and asking him once or twice to come and dine in Grosvenor Place.
These little advances towards a repetition of the old friendship Phineas would have avoided
altogether, had it been possible. The invitation to Mr. Kennedy's house he did refuse, feeling
himself positively bound to do so by Lady Laura's command, let the consequences be what they
might. When he did refuse, Mr. Kennedy would assume a look of displeasure and leave him, and
Phineas would hope that the work was done. Then there would come another encounter, and the
invitation would be repeated. At last, about the middle of May, there came another note. "Dear
Finn, will you dine with us on Wednesday, the 28th? I give you a long notice, because you seem
to have so many appointments. Yours always, Robert Kennedy." He had no alternative. He must
refuse, even though double the notice had been given. He could only think that Mr. Kennedy
was a very obtuse man and one who would not take a hint, and hope that he might succeed at
last. So he wrote an answer, not intended to be conciliatory. "My dear Kennedy, I am sorry
to say that I am engaged on the 28th. Yours always, Phineas Finn." At this period he did his
best to keep out of Mr. Kennedy's way, and would be very cunning in his manoeuvres that they
should not be alone together. It was difficult, as they sat on the same bench in the House,
and consequently saw each other almost every day of their lives. Nevertheless, he thought that
with a little cunning he might prevail, especially as he was not unwilling to give so much
of offence as might assist his own object. But when Mr. Kennedy called upon him at his office
the day after he had written the above note, he had no means of escape.

"I am sorry you cannot come to us on the 28th," Mr. Kennedy said, as soon as he was seated.

Phineas was taken so much by surprise that all his cunning failed him. "Well, yes," said he;
"I was very sorry;--very sorry indeed."

"It seems to me, Finn, that you have had some reason for avoiding me of late. I do not know
that I have done anything to offend you."

"Nothing on earth," said Phineas.

"I am wrong, then, in supposing that anything beyond mere chance has prevented you from coming
to my house?" Phineas felt that he was in a terrible difficulty, and he felt also that he was
being rather ill-used in being thus cross-examined as to his reasons for not going to a gentleman's
dinner. He thought that a man ought to be allowed to choose where he would go and where he
would not go, and that questions such as these were very uncommon. Mr. Kennedy was sitting
opposite to him, looking more grave and more sour than usual;--and now his own countenance
also became a little solemn. It was impossible that he should use Lady Laura's name, and yet
he must, in some way, let his persecuting friend know that no further invitation would be of
any use;--that there was something beyond mere chance in his not going to Grosvenor Place.
But how was he to do this? The difficulty was so great that he could not see his way out of
it. So he sat silent with a solemn face. Mr. Kennedy then asked him another question, which
made the difficulty ten times greater. "Has my wife asked you not to come to our house?"

It was necessary now that he should make a rush and get out of his trouble in some way. "To
tell you the truth, Kennedy, I don't think she wants to see me there."

"That does not answer my question. Has she asked you not to come?"

"She said that which left on my mind an impression that she would sooner that I did not come."

"What did she say?"

"How can I answer such a question as that, Kennedy? Is it fair to ask it?"

"Quite fair,--I think."

"I think it quite unfair, and I must decline to answer it. I cannot imagine what you expect
to gain by cross-questioning me in this way. Of course no man likes to go to a house if he
does not believe that everybody there will make him welcome."

"You and Lady Laura used to be great friends."

"I hope we are not enemies now. But things will occur that cause friendships to grow cool."

"Have you quarrelled with her father?"

"With Lord Brentford?--no."

"Or with her brother,--since the duel I mean?"

"Upon my word and honour I cannot stand this, and I will not. I have not as yet quarrelled
with anybody; but I must quarrel with you, if you go on in this way. It is quite unusual that
a man should be put through his facings after such a fashion, and I must beg that there may
be an end of it."

"Then I must ask Lady Laura."

"You can say what you like to your own wife of course. I cannot hinder you."

Upon that Mr. Kennedy formally shook hands with him, in token that there was no positive breach
between them,--as two nations may still maintain their alliance, though they have made up their
minds to hate each other, and thwart each other at every turn,--and took his leave. Phineas,
as he sat at his window, looking out into the park, and thinking of what had passed, could
not but reflect that, disagreeable as Mr. Kennedy had been to him, he would probably make himself
much more disagreeable to his wife. And, for himself, he thought that he had got out of the
scrape very well by the exhibition of a little mock anger.

CHAPTER LIX

The Earl's Wrath

The reader may remember that a rumour had been conveyed to Phineas,--a rumour indeed which
reached him from a source which he regarded as very untrustworthy,--that Violet Effingham had
quarrelled with her lover. He would probably have paid no attention to the rumour, beyond that
which necessarily attached itself to any tidings as to a matter so full of interest to him,
had it not been repeated to him in another quarter. "A bird has told me that your Violet Effingham
has broken with her lover," Madame Goesler said to him one day. "What bird?" he asked. "Ah,
that I cannot tell you. But this I will confess to you, that these birds which tell us news
are seldom very credible,--and are often not very creditable, You must take a bird's word for
what it may be worth. It is said that they have quarrelled. I daresay, if the truth were known,
they are billing and cooing in each other's arms at this moment."

Phineas did not like to be told of their billing and cooing,--did not like to be told even
of their quarrelling. Though they were to quarrel, it would do him no good. He would rather
that nobody should mention their names to him;--so that his back, which had been so utterly
broken, might in process of time get itself cured. From what he knew of Violet he thought it
very improbable that, even were she to quarrel with one lover, she would at once throw herself
into the arms of another. And he did feel, too, that there would be some meanness in taking
her, were she willing to be so taken. But, nevertheless, these rumours, coming to him in this
way from different sources, almost made it incumbent on him to find out the truth. He began
to think that his broken back was not cured;--that perhaps, after all, it was not in the way
of being cured, And was it not possible that there might be explanations? Then he went to work
and built castles in the air, so constructed as to admit of the possibility of Violet Effingham
becoming his wife.

This had been in April, and at that time all that he knew of Violet was, that she was not yet
in London. And he thought that he knew the same as to Lord Chiltern. The Earl had told him
that Chiltern was not in town, nor expected in town as yet; and in saying so had seemed to
express displeasure against his son. Phineas had met Lady Baldock at some house which he frequented,
and had been quite surprised to find himself graciously received by the old woman. She had
said not a word of Violet, but had spoken of Lord Chiltern,--mentioning his name in bitter
wrath. "But he is a friend of mine," said Phineas, smiling. "A friend indeed! Mr. Finn. I know
what sort of a friend. I don't believe that you are his friend. I am afraid he is not worthy
of having any friend." Phineas did not quite understand from this that Lady Baldock was signifying
to him that, badly as she had thought of him as a suitor for her niece, she would have preferred
him,--especially now when people were beginning to speak well of him,--to that terrible young
man, who, from his youth upwards, had been to her a cause of fear and trembling. Of course
it was desirable that Violet should marry an elder son, and a peer's heir. All that kind of
thing, in Lady Baldock's eyes, was most desirable. But, nevertheless, anything was better than
Lord Chiltern. If Violet would not take Mr. Appledom or Lord Fawn, in heaven's name let her
take this young man, who was kind, worthy, and steady, who was civilised in his manners, and
would no doubt be amenable in regard to settlements. Lady Baldock had so far fallen in the
world that she would have consented to make a bargain with her niece,--almost any bargain,
so long as Lord Chiltern was excluded. Phineas did not quite understand all this; but when
Lady Baldock asked him to come to Berkeley Square, he perceived that help was being proffered
to him where he certainly had not looked for help.

He was frequently with Lord Brentford, who talked to him constantly on matters connected with
his parliamentary life. After having been the intimate friend of the daughter and of the son,
it now seemed to be his lot to be the intimate friend of the father. The Earl had constantly
discussed with him his arrangements with his son, and had lately expressed himself as only
half satisfied with such reconciliation as had taken place. And Phineas could perceive that
from day to day the Earl was less and less satisfied. He would complain bitterly of his son,--complain
of his silence, complain of his not coming to London, complain of his conduct to Violet, complain
of his idle indifference to anything like proper occupation; but he had never as yet said a
word to show that there had been any quarrel between Violet and her lover, and Phineas had
felt that he could not ask the question. "Mr. Finn," said the Earl to him one morning, as soon
as he entered the room, "I have just heard a story which has almost seemed to me to be incredible."
The nobleman's manner was very stern, and the fact that he called his young friend "Mr. Finn",
showed at once that something was wrong.

"What is it you have heard, my lord?" said Phineas.

"That you and Chiltern went over,--last year to,--Belgium, and fought,--a duel there!"

Now it must have been the case that, in the set among which they all lived,--Lord Brentford
and his son and daughter and Phineas Finn,--the old lord was the only man who had not heard
of the duel before this. It had even penetrated to the dull ears of Mr. Kennedy, reminding
him, as it did so, that his wife had,--told him a lie! But it was the fact that no rumour of
the duel had reached the Earl till this morning.

"It is true," said Phineas.

"I have never been so much shocked in my life;--never. I had no idea that you had any thought
of aspiring to the hand of Miss Effingham." The lord's voice as he said this was very stern.

"As I aspired in vain, and as Chiltern has been successful, that need not now be made a reproach
against me."

"I do not know what to think of it, Mr. Finn. I am so much surprised that I hardly know what
to say. I must declare my opinion at once, that you behaved,--very badly."

"I do not know how much you know, my lord, and how much you do not know; and the circumstances
of the little affair do not permit me to be explicit about them; but, as you have expressed
your opinion so openly you must allow me to express mine, and to say that, as far as I can
judge of my own actions, I did not behave badly at all."

"Do you intend to defend duelling, sir?"

"No. If you mean to tell me that a duel is of itself sinful, I have nothing to say. I suppose
it is. My defence of myself merely goes to the manner in which this duel was fought, and the
fact that I fought it with your son."

"I cannot conceive how you can have come to my house as my guest, and stood upon my interest
for my borough, when you at the time were doing your very best to interpose yourself between
Chiltern and the lady whom you so well knew I wished to become his wife." Phineas was aware
that the Earl must have been very much moved indeed when he thus permitted himself to speak
of "his" borough. He said nothing now, however, though the Earl paused;--and then the angry
lord went on. "I must say that there was something,--something almost approaching to duplicity
in such conduct."

"If I were to defend myself by evidence, Lord Brentford, I should have to go back to exact
dates,--and dates not of facts which I could verify, but dates as to my feelings which could
not be verified,--and that would be useless. I can only say that I believe I know what the
honour and truth of a gentleman demand,--even to the verge of self-sacrifice, and that I have
done nothing that ought to place my character as a gentleman in jeopardy. If you will ask your
son, I think he will tell you the same."

"I have asked him. It was he who told me of the duel."

"When did he tell you, my lord?"

"Just now; this morning." Thus Phineas learned that Lord Chiltern was at this moment in the
house,--or at least in London.

"And did he complain of my conduct?"

"I complain of it, sir. I complain of it very bitterly. I placed the greatest confidence in
you, especially in regard to my son's affairs, and you deceived me." The Earl was very angry,
and was more angry from the fact that this young man who had offended him, to whom he had given
such vital assistance when assistance was needed, had used that assistance to its utmost before
his sin was found out. Had Phineas still been sitting for Loughton, so that the Earl could
have said to him, "You are now bound to retreat from this borough because you have offended
me, your patron," I think that he would have forgiven the offender and allowed him to remain
in his seat. There would have been a scene, and the Earl would have been pacified. But now
the offender was beyond his reach altogether, having used the borough as a most convenient
stepping-stone over his difficulties, and having so used it just at the time when he was committing
this sin. There was a good fortune about Phineas which added greatly to the lord's wrath. And
then, to tell the truth, he had not that rich consolation for which Phineas gave him credit.
Lord Chiltern had told him that morning that the engagement between him and Violet was at an
end. "You have so preached to her, my lord, about my duties," the son had said to his father,
"that she finds herself obliged to give me your sermons at second hand, till I can bear them
no longer." But of this Phineas knew nothing as yet. The Earl, however, was so imprudent in
his anger that before this interview was over he had told the whole story. "Yes;--you deceived
me," he continued; "and I can never trust you again."

"Was it for me, my lord, to tell you of that which would have increased your anger against
your own son? When he wanted me to fight was I to come, like a sneak at school, and tell you
the story? I know what you would have thought of me had I done so. And when it was over was
I to come and tell you then? Think what you yourself would have done when you were young, and
you may be quite sure that I did the same. What have I gained? He has got all that he wanted;
and you have also got all that you wanted;--and I have helped you both. Lord Brentford, I can
put my hand on my heart and say that I have been honest to you."

"I have got nothing that I wanted," said the Earl in his despair.

"Lord Chiltern and Miss Effingham will be man and wife."

"No;--they will not. He has quarrelled with her. He is so obstinate that she will not bear
with him."

Then it was all true, even though the rumours had reached him through Laurence Fitzgibbon and
Madame Max Goesler. "At any rate, my lord, that has not been my fault," he said, after a moment's
hesitation. The Earl was walking up and down the room, angry with himself at his own mistake
in having told the story, and not knowing what further to say to his visitor. He had been in
the habit of talking so freely to Phineas about his son that he could hardly resist the temptation
of doing so still; and yet it was impossible that he could swallow his anger and continue in
the same strain. "My lord," said Phineas, after a while, "I can assure you that I grieve that
you should be grieved. I have received so much undeserved favour from your family, that I owe
you a debt which I can never pay. I am sorry that you should be angry with me now; but I hope
that a time may come when you will think less severely of my conduct."

He was about to leave the room when the Earl stopped him. "Will you give me your word," said
the Earl, "that you will think no more of Miss Effingham?" Phineas stood silent, considering
how he might answer this proposal, resolving that nothing should bring him to such a pledge
as that suggested while there was yet a ledge for hope to stand on. "Say that, Mr. Finn, and
I will forgive everything."

"I cannot acknowledge that I have done anything to be forgiven."

"Say that," repeated the Earl, "and everything shall be forgotten."

"There need be no cause for alarm, my lord," said Phineas. "You may be sure that Miss Effingham
will not think of me."

"Will you give me your word?"

"No, my lord;--certainly not. You have no right to ask it, and the pursuit is open to me as
to any other man who may choose to follow it. I have hardly a vestige of a hope of success.
It is barely possible that I should succeed. But if it be true that Miss Effingham be disengaged,
I shall endeavour to find an opportunity of urging my suit. I would give up everything that
I have, my seat in Parliament, all the ambition of my life, for the barest chance of success.
When she had accepted your son, I desisted,--of course. I have now heard, from more sources
than one, that she or he or both of them have changed their minds. If this be so, I am free
to try again." The Earl stood opposite to him, scowling at him, but said nothing. "Good morning,
my lord."

"Good morning, sir."

"I am afraid it must be good-bye, for some long days to come."

"Good morning, sir," And the Earl as he spoke rang the bell. Then Phineas took up his hat and
departed.

As he walked away his mind filled itself gradually with various ideas, all springing from the
words which Lord Brentford had spoken. What account had Lord Chiltern given to his father of
the duel? Our hero was a man very sensitive as to the good opinion of others, and in spite
of his bold assertion of his own knowledge of what became a gentleman, was beyond measure solicitous
that others should acknowledge his claim at any rate to that title. He thought that he had
been generous to Lord Chiltern; and as he went back in his memory over almost every word that
had been spoken in the interview that had just passed, he fancied that he was able to collect
evidence that his antagonist at Blankenberg had not spoken ill of him. As to the charge of
deceit which the Earl had made against him, he told himself that the Earl had made it in anger.
He would not even think hardly of the Earl who had been so good a friend to him, but he believed
in his heart that the Earl had made the accusation out of his wrath and not out of his judgment.
"He cannot think that I have been false to him," Phineas said to himself. But it was very sad
to him that he should have to quarrel with all the family of the Standishes, as he could not
but feel that it was they who had put him on his feet. It seemed as though he were never to
see Lady Laura again except when they chanced to meet in company,--on which occasions he simply
bowed to her. Now the Earl had almost turned him out of his house. And though there had been
to a certain extent a reconciliation between him and Lord Chiltern, he in these days never
saw the friend who had once put him upon Bonebreaker; and now,--now that Violet Effingham was
again free,--how was it possible to avoid some renewal of enmity between them? He would, however,
endeavour to see Lord Chiltern at once.

And then he thought of Violet,--of Violet again free, of Violet as again a possible wife for
himself, of Violet to whom he might address himself at any rate without any scruple as to his
own unworthiness. Everybody concerned, and many who were not concerned at all, were aware that
he had been among her lovers, and he thought that he could perceive that those who interested
themselves on the subject, had regarded him as the only horse in the race likely to run with
success against Lord Chiltern. She herself had received his offers without scorn, and had always
treated him as though he were a favoured friend, though not favoured as a lover. And now even
Lady Baldock was smiling upon him, and asking him to her house as though the red-faced porter
in the hall in Berkeley Square had never been ordered to refuse him a moment's admission inside
the doors. He had been very humble in speaking of his own hopes to the Earl, but surely there
might be a chance. What if after all the little strain which he had had in his back was to
be cured after such a fashion as this! When he got to his lodgings, he found a card from Lady
Baldock, informing him that Lady Baldock would be at home on a certain night, and that there
would be music. He could not go to Lady Baldock's on the night named, as it would be necessary
that he should be in the House;--nor did he much care to go there, as Violet Effingham was
not in town. But he would call and explain, and endeavour to curry favour in that way.

He at once wrote a note to Lord Chiltern, which he addressed to Portman Square. "As you are
in town, can we not meet? Come and dine with me at the ---- Club on Saturday." That was the
note. After a few days he received the following answer, dated from the Bull at Willingford.
Why on earth should Chiltern be staying at the Bull at Willingford in May?

   The old Shop at W----, Friday.

   DEAR PHINEAS,

   I can't dine with you, because I am down here, looking
   after the cripples, and writing a sporting novel. They
   tell me I ought to do something, so I am going to do that.
   I hope you don't think I turned informer against you in
   telling the Earl of our pleasant little meeting on the
   sands. It had become necessary, and you are too much of a
   man to care much for any truth being told. He was terribly
   angry both with me and with you; but the fact is, he is so
   blindly unreasonable that one cannot regard his anger. I
   endeavoured to tell the story truly, and, so told, it
   certainly should not have injured you in his estimation.
   But it did. Very sorry, old fellow, and I hope you'll get
   over it. It is a good deal more important to me than to
   you.

   Yours,

   C.

There was not a word about Violet. But then it was hardly to be expected that there should
be words about Violet. It was not likely that a man should write to his rival of his own failure.
But yet there was a flavour of Violet in the letter which would not have been there, so Phineas
thought, if the writer had been despondent. The pleasant little meeting on the sands had been
convened altogether in respect of Violet. And the telling of the story to the Earl must have
arisen from discussions about Violet. Lord Chiltern must have told his father that Phineas
was his rival. Could the rejected suitor have written on such a subject in such a strain to
such a correspondent if he had believed his own rejection to be certain? But then Lord Chiltern
was not like anybody else in the world, and it was impossible to judge of him by one's experience
of the motives of others.

Shortly afterwards Phineas did call in Berkeley Square, and was shown up at once into Lady
Baldock's drawing-room. The whole aspect of the porter's countenance was changed towards him,
and from this, too, he gathered good auguries This had surprised him; but his surprise was
far greater, when, on entering the room, he found Violet Effingham there alone. A little fresh
colour came to her face as she greeted him, though it cannot be said that she blushed. She
behaved herself admirably, not endeavouring to conceal some little emotion at thus meeting
him, but betraying none that was injurious to her composure. "I am so glad to see you, Mr.
Finn," she said. "My aunt has just left me, and will be back directly."

He was by no means her equal in his management of himself on the occasion; but perhaps it may
be acknowledged that his position was the more difficult of the two. He had not seen her since
her engagement had been proclaimed to the world, and now he had heard from a source which was
not to be doubted, that it had been broken off. Of course there was nothing to be said on that
matter. He could not have congratulated her in the one case, nor could he either congratulate
her or condole with her on the other. And yet he did not know how to speak to her as though
no such events had occurred. "I did not know that you were in town," he said.

"I only came yesterday. I have been, you know, at Rome with the Effinghams; and since that
I have been--; but, indeed, I have been such a vagrant that I cannot tell you of all my comings
and goings. And you,--you are hard at work!"

"Oh yes;--always."

"That is right. I wish I could be something, if it were only a stick in waiting, or a door-keeper.
It is so good to be something." Was it some such teaching as this that had jarred against Lord
Chiltern's susceptibilities, and had seemed to him to be a repetition of his father's sermons?

"A man should try to be something," said Phineas.

"And a woman must be content to be nothing,--unless Mr. Mill can pull us through! And now,
tell me,--have you seen Lady Laura?"

"Not lately."

"Nor Mr. Kennedy?"

"I sometimes see him in the House." The visit to the Colonial Office of which the reader has
been made aware had not at that time as yet been made.

"I am sorry for all that," she said. Upon which Phineas smiled and shook his head. "I am very
sorry that there should be a quarrel between you two."

"There is no quarrel."

"I used to think that you and he might do so much for each other,--that is, of course, if you
could make a friend of him."

"He is a man of whom it is very hard to make a friend," said Phineas, feeling that he was dishonest
to Mr. Kennedy in saying so, but thinking that such dishonesty was justified by what he owed
to Lady Laura.

"Yes;--he is hard, and what I call ungenial. We won't say anything about him,--will we? Have
you seen much of the Earl?" This she asked as though such a question had no reference whatever
to Lord Chiltern.

"Oh dear,--alas, alas!"

"You have not quarrelled with him too?"

"He has quarrelled with me. He has heard, Miss Effingham, of what happened last year, and he
thinks that I was wrong."

"Of course you were wrong, Mr. Finn."

"Very likely. To him I chose to defend myself, but I certainly shall not do so to you. At any
rate, you did not think it necessary to quarrel with me."

"I ought to have done so. I wonder why my aunt does not come." Then she rang the bell.

"Now I have told you all about myself," said he; "you should tell me something of yourself."

"About me? I am like the knife-grinder, who had no story to tell,--none at least to be told.
We have all, no doubt, got our little stories, interesting enough to ourselves."

"But your story, Miss Effingham," he said, "is of such intense interest to me." At that moment,
luckily, Lady Baldock came into the room, and Phineas was saved from the necessity of making
a declaration at a moment which would have been most inopportune.

Lady Baldock was exceedingly gracious to him, bidding Violet use her influence to persuade
him to come to the gathering. "Persuade him to desert his work to come and hear some fiddlers!"
said Miss Effingham. "Indeed I shall not, aunt. Who can tell but what the colonies might suffer
from it through centuries, and that such a lapse of duty might drive a province or two into
the arms of our mortal enemies?"

