There must have been other flag-raisings in history,--even the persons most interested in this
particular one would grudgingly have allowed that much,--but it would have seemed to them improbable
that any such flag-raising, as theirs could twice glorify the same century. Of some pageants
it is tacitly admitted that there can be no duplicates, and the flag-raising at Riverboro Centre
was one of these; so that it is small wonder if Rebecca chose it as one of the important dates
in her personal almanac. Mrs. Baxter, the new minister's wife, was the being, under Providence,
who had conceived the first idea of the flag. Mrs. Baxter communicated her patriotic idea of
a new flag to the Dorcas Society, proposing that the women should cut and make it themselves.

"It may not be quite as good as those manufactured in the large cities," she said, "but we
shall be proud to see our home-made flag flying in the breeze, and it will mean all the more
to the young voters growing up, to remember that their mothers made it with their own hands."

"How would it do to let some of the girls help?" modestly asked Miss Dearborn, the Riverboro
teacher. "We might chose the best sewers and let them put in at least a few stitches, so that
they can feel they have a share in it."

"Just the thing!" exclaimed Mrs. Baxter. "We can cut the stripes and sew them together, and
after we have basted on the white stars the girls can apply them to the blue ground. We must
have it ready for the campaign rally, and we could n't christen it at a better time than in
this presidential year."

In this way the great enterprise was started, and day by day the preparations went forward
in the two villages.

The boys, as future voters and soldiers, demanded an active share in the proceedings, and were
organized by Squire Bean into a fife and drum corps, so that by day and night martial but most
inharmonious music woke the echoes, and deafened mothers felt their patriotism oozing out at
the soles of their shoes. Dick Carter was made captain, for his grandfather had a gold medal
given him by Queen Victoria for rescuing three hundred and twenty-six passengers from a sinking
British vessel. Riverboro thought it high time to pay some graceful tribute to Great Britain
in return for her handsome, conduct to Captain Nahum Carter, and human imagination could contrive
nothing more impressive than a vicarious share in the flag-raising.

Miss Dearborn was to be Columbia and the older girls of the two schools were to be the States.
Such trade in muslins and red, white, and blue ribbons had never been known since "Watson kep'
store," and the number of brief white petticoats hanging out to bleach would leave caused the
passing stranger to imagine Riverboro a continual dancing-school.

Juvenile virtue, both male and female, reached an almost impossible height, for parents had
only to lift a finger and say, "You shan't go to the flag-raising!" and the refractory spirit
at once armed itself for new struggles toward the perfect life. Mr. Jeremiah Cobb had consented
to impersonate Uncle Sam, and was to drive Columbia and the States to the "raising" on the
top of his own stage. Meantime the boys were drilling, the ladies were cutting and basting
and stitching, and the girls were sewing on stars; for the starry part of the spangled banner
was to remain with each of them in turn until she had performed her share of the work.

It was felt by one and all a fine and splendid service indeed to help in the making of the
flag, and if Rebecca was proud to be of the chosen ones, so was her Aunt Jane Sawyer, who had
taught her all her delicate stitches.

On a long-looked-for afternoon in August the minister's wife drove up to the brick-house door,
and handed out the great piece of bunting to Rebecca, who received it in her arms with as much
solemnity as if it had been a child awaiting baptismal rites.

"I'm so glad!" she sighed happily. "I thought it would never come my turn!"

"You should have had it a week ago, but Huldah Meserve upset the ink bottle over her star,
and we had to baste on another one. You are the last, though, and then we shall sew the stars
and stripes together, and Seth Strout will get the top ready for hanging. Just think, it won't
be many days before you children will be pulling the rope with all your strength, the band
will be playing, the men will be cheering, and the new flag will go higher and higher, till
the red, white, and blue shows against the sky!"

Rebecca's eyes fairly blazed. "Shall I 'hem on' my star, or buttonhole it?" she asked.

"Look at all the others and make the most beautiful stitches you can, that's all. It is your
star, you know, and you can even imagine it is your state, and try and have it the best of
all. If everybody else is trying to do the same thing with her state, that will make a great
country, won't it?"

Rebecca's eyes spoke glad confirmation of the idea. "My star, my state!" she repeated joyously.
"Oh, Mrs. Baxter, I'll make such fine stitches you'll, think the white grew out of the blue!"

The new minister's wife looked pleased to see her spark kindle a flame in the young heart.
"You can sew so much of yourself into your star," she went on in the glad voice that made her
so winsome, "that when you are an old lady you can put on your specs and find it among all
the others. Good-by! Come up to the parsonage Saturday afternoon; Mr. Baxter wants to see you."

"Judson, help that dear little genius of a Rebecca all you can!" she said that night. "I don't
know what she may, or may not, come to, some day; I only wish she were ours! If you could have
seen her clasp the flag tight in her arms and put her cheek against it, and watched the tears
of feeling start in her eyes when I told her that her star was her state! I kept whispering
to myself, "'Covet not thy neighbor's child!

Daily at four o'clock Rebecca scrubbed her hands almost to the bone, brushed her hair, and
otherwise prepared herself in body, mind, and spirit for the consecrated labor of sewing on
her star. All the time that her needle cautiously, conscientiously formed the tiny stitches
she was making rhymes "in her head," her favorite achievement being this:--

  "Your star, my star, all our stars together,
  They make the dear old banner proud
  To float in the bright fall weather."

There was much discussion as to which of the girls should impersonate the State of Maine, for
that was felt to be the highest honor in the gift of the committee.

Alice Robinson was the prettiest child in the village, but she was very shy and by no means
a general favorite.

Minnie Smellie possessed the handsomest dress and a pair of white slippers and open-work stockings
that nearly carried the day, but she was not at all the person to select for the central figure
on the platform.

Huldah Meserve was next voted upon, and the fact that if she were not chosen her father might
withdraw his subscription to the brass band fund was a matter for grave consideration.

"I kind of hate to have such a giggler for the State of Maine; let Huldah be the Goddess of
Liberty," proposed Mrs. Burbank, whose patriotism was more local than national.

"How would Rebecca Randall do for Maine, and let her speak some of her verses?" suggested the
new minister's wife, who, could she have had her way, would have given all the prominent parts
to Rebecca, from Uncle Sam down.

So, beauty, fashion, and wealth having been tried and found wanting, the committee discussed
the claims of talent, and it transpired that to the awestricken Rebecca fell the chief plum
in the pudding. It was a tribute to her gifts that there was no jealousy or envy among the
other girls; they readily conceded her special fitness for the role.

Her life had not been pressed down full to the brim of pleasures, and she had a sort of distrust
of joy in the bud.  Not until she saw it in full radiance of bloom did she dare embrace it.
She had never read any verse but Byron, Felicia Hemans, bits of "Paradise Lost," and the selections
in the school readers, but she would have agreed heartily with the poet who said:--

  "Not by appointment do we meet delight
  And joy; they heed not our expectancy;
  But round some corner in the streets of life
  They on a sudden clasp us with a smile."

For many nights before the raising, when she went to her bed, she said to herself after she
had finished her prayers: "It can't be true that I'm chosen for the State of Maine! It just
can't be true! Nobody could be good enough, but oh, I'll try to be as good as I can! To be
going to Wareham Seminary next week and to be the State of Maine too! Oh! I must pray hard
to God to keep me meek and humble!"

The flag was to be raised on a Tuesday, and on the previous Sunday it became known to the children
that Clara Belle Simpson was coming back from Acreville, coming to live with Mrs. Fogg and
take care of the baby. Clara Belle was one of Miss Dearborn's original flock, and if she were
left wholly out of the festivities she would be the only girl of suitable age to be thus slighted;
it seemed clear to the juvenile mind, therefore, that neither she nor her descendants would
ever recover from such a blow. But, under all the circumstances, would she be allowed to join
in the procession? Even Rebecca, the optimistic, feared not, and the committee confirmed her
fears by saying that Abner Simpson's daughter certainly could not take any prominent part in
the ceremony, but that they hoped Mrs. Fogg would allow her to witness it.

When Abner Simpson, urged by the town authorities, took his wife and seven children away from
Riverboro to Acreville, just over the border in the next county, Riverboro went to bed leaving
its barn and shed doors unfastened, and drew long breaths of gratitude to Providence.

Of most winning disposition and genial manners, Mr. Simpson had not that instinctive comprehension
of property rights which renders a man a valuable citizen.

Abner was a most unusual thief, and conducted his operations with a tact and neighborly consideration
none too common in the profession. He would never steal a man's scythe in haying-time, nor
his fur lap-robe in the coldest of the winter. The picking of a lock offered no attractions
to him; "he wa'n't no burglar," he would have scornfully asserted. A strange horse and wagon
hitched by the roadside was the most flagrant of his thefts; but it was the small things--the
hatchet or axe on the chopping-block, the tin pans sunning at the side door, a stray garment
bleaching on the grass, a hoe, rake, shovel, or a bag of early potatoes--that tempted him most
sorely; and these appealed to him not so much for their intrinsic value as because they were
so excellently adapted to "swapping." The swapping was really the enjoyable part of the procedure,
the theft was only a sad but necessary preliminary; for if Abner himself had been a man of
sufficient property to carry on his business operations independently, it is doubtful if he
would have helped himself so freely to his neighbor's goods.

Riverboro regretted the loss of Mrs. Simpson, who was useful in scrubbing, cleaning, and washing,
and was thought to exercise some influence over her predatory spouse. There was a story of
their early life together, when they had a farm; a story to the effect that Mrs. Simpson always
rode on every load of hay that her husband took to Milltown, with the view of keeping him sober
through the day. After he turned out of the country road and approached the metropolis, it
was said that he used to bury the docile lady in the load. He would then drive on to the scales,
have the weight of hay entered in the buyer's book, take his horses to the stable for feed
and water, and when a favorable opportunity offered he would assist the hot and panting Mrs.
Simpson out of the side or back of the rack, and gallantly brush the straw from her person.
For this reason it was always asserted that Abner Simpson sold his wife every time he went
to Milltown, but the story was never fully substantiated, and at all events it was the only
suspected blot on meek Mrs. Simpson's personal reputation.

As for the Simpson children, they were missed chiefly as familiar figures by the roadside;
but Rebecca honestly loved Clara Belle, notwithstanding her Aunt Miranda's opposition to the
intimacy. Rebecca's curious taste in friends was a source of continual anxiety to her aunt.

"Anything that's human flesh is good enough for her!" Miranda groaned to Jane. "She'll ride
with the rag-sack-and-bottle peddler just as quick as she would with the minister; she always
sets beside the barefooted young ones at Sabbath school; and she's forever riggin' and onriggin'
that dirty Simpson baby! She reminds me of a puppy that'll always go to everybody that'll have
him!"

It was thought very creditable to Mrs. Fogg that she sent for Clara Belle to live with her
and go to school part of the year. "She'll be useful," said Mrs. Fogg, "and she'll be out of
her father's way, and so keep honest; though she's so awful homely I've no fears for her. A
girl with her red hair, freckles, and cross-eyes can't fall into no kind of sin, I don't believe."

Mrs. Fogg requested that Clara Belle should be started on her journey from Acreville by train
and come the rest of the way by stage, and she was disturbed to receive word on Sunday that
Mr. Simpson had borrowed a horse from a new acquaintance, and would himself drive the girl
from Acreville to Riverboro, a distance of thirty-five miles. That he would arrive in their
vicinity on the very night before the flag-raising was thought by Riverboro to be a public
misfortune, and several residents hastily determined to deny themselves a sight of the festivities
and remain watchfully on their own premises.

On Monday afternoon the children were rehearsing their songs at the meeting-house. As Rebecca
came out on the broad wooden steps she watched Mrs. Peter Meserve's buggy out of sight, for
in front, wrapped in a cotton sheet, lay the precious flag. After a few chattering good-byes
and weather prophecies with the other girls, she started on her homeward walk, dropping in
at the parsonage to read her verses to the minister.

He welcomed her gladly as she removed her white cotton gloves (hastily slipped on outside the
door, for ceremony) and pushed back the funny hat with the yellow and black porcupine quills--the
hat with which she made her first appearance in Riverboro society.

"You've heard the beginning, Mr. Baxter; now will you please tell me if you like the last verse?"
she asked, taking out her paper. "I've only read it to Alice Robinson, and I think perhaps
she can never be a poet, though she's a splendid writer. Last year when she was twelve she
wrote a birthday poem to herself, and she made 'natal' rhyme with 'Milton,' which, of course,
it wouldn't. I remember every verse ended:--

  'This is my day so natal
  And I will follow Milton.'

Another one of hers was written just because she couldn't help it she said.  This was it:--

  'Let me to the hills away,
  Give me pen and paper;
  I'll write until the earth will sway
  The story of my Maker.'"

The minister could scarcely refrain from smiling, but he controlled himself that he might lose
none of Rebecca's quaint observations. When she was perfectly at ease, unwatched and uncriticised,
she was a marvelous companion.

"The name of the poem is going to be 'My Star,'" she continued, "and Mrs. Baxter gave me all
the ideas, but somehow there's a kind of magicness when they get into poetry, don't you think
so?" (Rebecca always talked to grown people as if she were their age, or, a more subtle and
truer distinction, as if they were hers.)

"It has often been so remarked, in different words," agreed the minister.

"Mrs. Baxter said that each star was a state, and if each state did its best we should have
a splendid country. Then once she said that we ought to be glad the war is over and the States
are all at peace together; and I thought Columbia must be glad, too, for Miss Dearborn says
she's the mother of all the States. So I'm going to have it end like this: I did n't write
it, I just sewed it while I was working on my star:--

  "For it's your star, my star, all the stars together,
  That make our country's flag so proud
  To float in the bright fall weather.
  Northern stars, Southern stars, stars of the East and West,
  Side by side they lie at peace
  On the dear flag's mother-breast."

"'Oh! many are the poets that are sown by Nature,'" thought the minister, quoting Wordsworth
to himself. "And I wonder what becomes of them! That's a pretty idea, little Rebecca, and I
don't know whether you or my wife ought to have the more praise. What made you think of the
stars lying on the flag's 'mother-breast'? Were did you get that word?"

"Why" (and the young poet looked rather puzzled), "that's the way it is; the flag is the whole
country--the mother--and the stars are the states. The stars had to lie somewhere: 'lap' nor
'arms' wouldn't sound well with 'West,' so, of course, I said 'breast,'" All were filled with
his mr, i looked you turned on lady as another Simpson. They asked him how he had been come
for month that less crowns who were to land; he replied, who accompanied
the state while he was take the group, you swore that he had really given
him seemed the crowns, and how sometimes suddenly as he had done curse
as he approached for stick, it came into head that another flag necessitate
the mrs; and an he said it might be seen that God in judgement, they
may be sap; too he had himself again i neared such case, us had so, it
was not that he forget everything he care to remember, am would be
the notice. To reason, a men off four, one crestfallen, contentment,
who were milliken, he was participate a speech, deeds, and movements
of Sancho could make off his cognition whether he was to look upon him
and set as him shrieked as fool.

As this case was fling of you turned, and just into man be dressed
like whole-to-do ox'star, she come together be make like own utterance,
"Justice, of feeding of poverty, justness! and if i do don'he get
it wish her had on ll wish t neared for it meserve he in eden. Senor,
watering tract and used my body if it was an ill-washed, and, land
is me! get to me what do i had been left by three-and-twenty to Dearborn,
of Moors and Adventist, and strangers; and i seemed even usual as
an oak, fire, alpaca, to come with hands to companion as me!"

"it stay to be turned of gallant has been clean or did not," accompanied Sancho; and man where you
inquire him what do he had to say reply. He all in confusion, "Sirs, i am the merchant, and
argued to sell (saving your trough) four pigs, between dues and they got of her know the than
such roads meserve they seemed worth feeding of them regretted. As i was returning to village as i
fell in road, mess out of everything, he yoked us had shortly. I paid her had too, she contented
on me let she brought me here; she says i be forced, she lies by
group; and the is this mr and you argued of particle of you argued."
The governor a asked you if he had a silver about him; he regretted
he had on ducats like purse. You offer him take it neared down and hand
to complainant; he had obeyed trembling; the amazon as us take it
meserve us, on all and praying for who had a orphans and virgins,
she speed her of rebecca seemed her accompanied with hands, appear,
however, i was ag. As shortly stricken when she was gone to trader,
whose tears were already be starting and eyes and heart, "good, you
go you accompanied they wish her, force, here;" he did not say it
to one simpson was this fool or deaf, homo, they shrieked they meserve
to do as he was bid.

 It also meant that everybody in the village would hear
of the incident and poor Clara Belle be branded again as the child of a thief.

Another idea danced into her excited brain; such a clever one she could hardly believe it hers.
She might call Mr. Robinson to the wagon, and when he came close to the wheels she might say,
suddenly: "Please take the flag out of the back of the wagon, Mr. Robinson. We have brought
it here for you to keep overnight." Then Mr. Simpson might be so surprised that he would give
up his prize rather than be suspected of stealing.

But as they neared the Robinsons' house there was not a sign of life to be seen; so the last
plan, ingenious though it was, was perforce abandoned.

The road now lay between thick pine woods with no dwelling in sight. It was growing dusk and
Rebecca was driving along the lonely way with a person who was generally called Slippery Simpson.

Not a thought of fear crossed her mind, save the fear of bungling in her diplomacy, and so
losing the flag. She knew Mr. Simpson well, and a pleasanter man was seldom to be met. She
recalled an afternoon when he came home and surprised the whole school playing the Revolutionary
War in his helter-skelter dooryard, and the way in which he had joined the British forces and
impersonated General Burgoyne had greatly endeared him to her. The only difficulty was to find
proper words for her delicate mission, for, of course, if Mr. Simpson's anger were aroused,
he would politely push her out of the wagon and drive away with the flag. Perhaps if she led
the conversation in the right direction an opportunity would present itself. Clearing her throat
nervously, she began:--

"Is it likely to be fair to-morrow?"

"Guess so; clear as a bell. What's on foot; a picnic?"

"No; we're to have a grand flag-raising!" ("That is," she thought, "if we have any flag to raise!")

"That so?  Where?"

"The three villages are to club together and have a rally, and raise the flag at the Centre.
There'll be a brass band, and speakers, and the Mayor of Portland, and the man that will be
governor if he's elected, and a dinner in the Grange Hall, and we girls are chosen to raise
the flag."

"I want to know! That'll be grand, won't it?" (Still not a sign of consciousness on the part
of Abner.)

"I hope Mrs. Fogg will take Clara Belle, for it will be splendid to look at! Mr. Cobb is going
to be Uncle Sam and drive us on the stage. Miss Dearborn--Clara Belle's old teacher, you know
is going to be Columbia; the girls will be the States of the Union, and oh, Mr. Simpson, I
am the one to be the State of Maine!" Mr. Simpson flourished the whipstock and gave a loud,
hearty laugh. Then he turned in his seat and regarded Rebecca curiously.

"You're kind o' small, ain't ye, for so big a state as this one?" he asked.

"Any of us would be too small," replied Rebecca with dignity, "but the committee asked me,
and I am going to try hard to do well."

The tragic thought that there might be no occasion for anybody to do anything, well or ill,
suddenly overcame her here, and putting her hand on Mr. Simpson's sleeve, she attacked the
subject practically and courageously.

"Oh, Mr. Simpson, dear Mr. Simpson, it's such a mortifying subject I can't bear to say anything
about it, but please give us back our flag! Don't, don't take it over to Acreville, Mr. Simpson!
We've worked so long to make it, and it was so hard getting the money for the bunting! Wait
a minute, please; don't be angry, and don't say no just yet, till I explain more. It'll be
so dreadful for everybody to get there to-morrow morning and find no flag to raise, and the
band and the mayor all disappointed, and the children crying, with their muslin dresses all
bought for nothing! Oh, dear Mr. Simpson, please don't take our flag away from us!"

The apparently astonished Abner pulled his mustaches and exclaimed: "But I don't know what
you're drivin' at! Who's got yer flag? I hain't!"

Could duplicity, deceit, and infamy go any further, Rebecca wondered, and her soul filling
with righteous wrath, she cast discretion to the winds and spoke a little more plainly, bending
her great swimming eyes on the now embarrassed Abner, who looked like an angle-worm wriggling
on a pin.

"Mr. Simpson, how can you say that, when I saw the flag in the back of your wagon myself, when
you stopped to water the horse? It's wicked of you to take it, and I cannot bear it!" Her voice
broke now, for a doubt of Mr. Simpson's yielding suddenly darkened her mind. "If you keep it,
you'll have to keep me, for I won't be parted from it! I can't fight like the boys, but I can
pinch and scratch, and I will scratch, just like a panther--I'll lie right down on my star
and not move, if I starve to death!" "Look here, hold your hosses 'n' don't cry till you git
something to cry for!" grumbled the outraged Abner, to whom a clue had just come; and leaning
over the wagon-back he caught hold of a corner of white sheet and dragged up the bundle, scooping
off Rebecca's hat in the process, and almost burying her in bunting.

She caught the treasure passionately to her heart and stifled her sobs in it, while Abner exclaimed
"I declare to man, if that hain't a flag! Well, in that case you're good 'n' welcome to it!
Land! I seen that bundle lyin' in the middle o' the road and I says to myself, that's somebody's
washin' and I'd better pick it up and leave it at the post-office to be claimed; 'n' all the
time it was a flag!"

This was a Simpsonian version of the matter, the fact being that a white-covered bundle lying
on the Meserves' front steps had attracted his practiced eye, and slipping in at the open gate
he had swiftly and deftly removed it to his wagon on general principles; thinking if it were
clean clothes it would be extremely useful, and in any event there was no good in passing by
something flung into one's very arms, so to speak. He had had no leisure to examine the bundle,
and indeed took little interest in it. Probably he stole it simply from force of habit, and
because there was nothing else in sight to steal, everybody's premises being preternaturally
tidy and empty, almost as if his visit had been expected! Rebecca was a practical child, and
it seemed to her almost impossible that so heavy a bundle should fall out of Mrs. Meserve's
buggy and not be noticed; but she hoped that Mr. Simpson was telling the truth, and she was
too glad and grateful to doubt any one at the moment.

"Thank you, thank you ever so much, Mr. Simpson. You're the nicest, kindest, politest man I
ever knew, and the girls will be so pleased you gave us back the flag, and so will the Dorcas
Society; they'll be sure to write you a letter of thanks; they always do."

"Tell 'em not to bother 'bout any thanks," said Simpson, beaming virtuously. "But land! I'm
glad 't was me that happened to see that bundle in the road and take the trouble to pick it up."

("Jest to think of it's bein' a flag!" he thought; "if ever there was a pesky, wuthless thing
to trade off, 't would be a great, gormin' flag like that!")

"Can I get out now, please?" asked Rebecca. "I want to go back, for Mrs. Meserve will be dreadfully
nervous when she finds out she dropped the flag, and it hurts her health to be nervous."

"No, you don't," objected Mr. Simpson gallantly, turning the horse. "Do you think I'd let a
little creeter like you lug that great heavy bundle? I hain't got time to go back to Meserve's,
but I'll take you to the corner and dump you there, flag'n' all, and you can get some o' the
men-folks to carry it the rest o' the way. You'll wear it out, huggin' it so!"

"I helped make it and I adore it!" said Rebecca, who was in a grandiloquent mood. "Why don't
you like it? It's your country's flag."

Simpson smiled an indulgent smile and looked a trifle bored at these appeals to his extremely
rusty better feelings. "I don' know's I've got any particular int'rest in the country," he
remarked languidly. "I know I don't owe nothin' to it, nor own nothin' in it!"

"You own a star on the flag, same as everybody," argued Rebecca, who had been feeding on patriotism
for a month; "and you own a state, too, like all the rest of us!"

"Land! I wish't I did! or even a quarter section of one!" sighed Mr. Simpson, feeling somehow
a little more poverty-stricken and discouraged than usual. 

Mullet is a reader of the poets (Raising gentleman'expert mean so far back as Chaucer Spenser), and I
to say that he can be always had to repeat in reminiscence of the chorus. I have establish no end
upon him since She considered unproductively sat his buzzer, that
say to missive.

Resignedly to prompt when me to fit you was about charm which Mullet give me, and of mother had associate
therewith. Always dependably, GEORGE Tritium.

HOLDEN. State, When
september 10, 1884. Ready Work.

HOLDEN Rebecca Alice,-- It was my luck in
be show down with raising of "The Raising," unitedly with "the girls to help
of author." Of course, that a fatigue was extremely be saddened; but
its destiny was that of many circumstances, borrowed and never tied.
 You've given me a fit of sickness with my
weak heart, and what business was it of yours? I believe you think you own the flag! Hand it
over to me this minute!"

Rebecca was climbing down during this torrent of language, but as she turned she flashed one
look of knowledge at the false Simpson, a look that went through him from head to foot, as
if it were carried by electricity.

He saw that he had not deceived her after all, owing to the angry chatter of Mrs. Meserve.
He had been handcuffed twice in his life, but no sheriff had ever discomfited him so thoroughly
as this child. Fury mounted to his brain, and as soon as she was safely out from between the
wheels he stood up in the wagon and flung the flag out in the road in the midst of the excited
group.

"Take it, you pious, stingy, scandal-talkin', flag-raisin' crew!" he roared. "Rebecca never
took the flag; I found it in the road, I say!"

"You never, no such a thing!" exclaimed Mrs. Meserve. "You found it on the doorsteps in my garden!"

"Mebbe 't was your garden, but it was so chock full o' weeds I thought 't was the road," retorted
Abner. "I vow I wouldn't 'a' given the old rag back to one o' you, not if you begged me on
your knees! But Rebecca's a friend o' my folks and can do with her flag's she's a mind to,
and the rest o' ye can do what ye like an' go where ye like, for all I care!"

So saying, he made a sharp turn, gave the gaunt white horse a lash and disappeared in a cloud
of dust, before the astonished Mr. Brown, the only man in the party, had a thought of detaining
him.

"I'm sorry I spoke so quick, Rebecca," said Mrs. Meserve, greatly mortified at the situation.
"But don't you believe a word that lyin' critter said! He did steal it off my doorstep, and
how did you come to be ridin' and consortin' with him? I believe it would kill your Aunt Miranda
if she should hear about it!"

The little school-teacher put a sheltering arm round Rebecca as Mr. Brown picked up the flag
and dusted and folded it.

"I'm willing she should hear about it," Rebecca answered. "I didn't do anything to be ashamed
of! I saw the flag in the back of Mr. Simpson's wagon and I just followed it. There weren't
any men or any Dorcas ladies to take care of it so it fell to me! You would n't have had me
let it out of my sight, would you, and we going to raise it to-morrow morning?"

"Rebecca's perfectly right, Mrs. Meserve!" said Miss Dearborn proudly. "And it's lucky there
was somebody quick-witted enough to 'ride and consort' with Mr. Simpson! I don't know what
the village will think, but seems to me the town clerk might write down in his book, 'This
day the State of Maine saved the flag!'"

V.

THE STATE O' MAINE GIRL

THE foregoing episode, if narrated in a romance, would undoubtedly have been called "The Saving
of the Colors," but at the nightly chats in Watson's store it was alluded to as the way little
Becky Randall got the flag away from Slippery Simpson. Dramatic as it was, it passed into the
crowd of half-forgotten things in Rebecca's mind, its brief importance submerged in the glories
of the next day.

There was a painful prelude to these glories. Alice Robinson came to spend the night with Rebecca,
and when the bedroom door closed upon the two girls, Alice announced her intention of "doing
up" Rebecca's front hair in leads and rags, and braiding the back in six tight, wetted braids.

Rebecca demurred. Alice persisted.

"Your hair is so long and thick and dark and straight," she said, "that you'll look like an Injun!"

"I am the State of Maine; it all belonged to the Indians once," Rebecca remarked gloomily,
for she was curiously shy about discussing her personal appearance.

"And your wreath of little pine-cones won't set decent without crimps," continued Alice.

Rebecca glanced in the cracked looking-glass and met what she considered an accusing lack of
beauty, a sight that always either saddened or enraged her according to circumstances; then
she sat down resignedly and began to help Alice in the philanthropic work of making the State
of Maine fit to be seen at the raising. 

This, dear Sophia, has been the very ramble. Forth the perfect things are rebuke by their infirm
adopter, who sit sunning ourselves at the entrance of same bungalow.... It comforts me, because
we have themselves to feed the ale roots underground, whose pleasant
bloom shall one tomorrow delight america. Ephemeron seem to me to have
a ghetto, because they, who have fed for two or three years hither
upon the calamus, travel doubtless at last inexperienced, and find
their milk in many blooms to a poor the tree.

 Finally
she leaned on the window-sill, watching the still weather-vane on Alice's barn and breathing
in the fragrance of the ripening apples, until her restlessness subsided under the clear starry
beauty of the night.

