When we know the highest ideal of freedom which a man has, we know his dharma, the essence
of his nature, the real meaning of his self.  At first sight it seems that man counts that
as freedom by which he gets unbounded opportunities of self gratification and self-aggrandisement.
But surely this is not borne out by history.  Our revelatory men have always been those who
have lived the life of self-sacrifice.  The higher nature in man always seeks for something
which transcends itself and yet is its deepest truth; which claims all its sacrifice, yet makes
this sacrifice its own recompense.  This is man's dharma, man's religion, and man's self is
the vessel which is to carry this sacrifice to the altar.

We can look at our self in its two different aspects.  The self which displays itself, and
the self which transcends itself and thereby reveals its own meaning.  To display itself it
tries to be big, to stand upon the pedestal of its accumulations, and to retain everything
to itself.  To reveal itself it gives up everything it has; thus becoming perfect like a flower
that has blossomed out from the bud, pouring from its chalice of beauty all its sweetness.

The lamp contains its oil, which it holds securely in its close grasp and guards from the least
loss.  Thus is it separate from all other objects around it and is miserly.  But when lighted
it finds its meaning at once; its relation with all things far and near is established, and
it freely sacrifices its fund of oil to feed the flame.

Such a lamp is our self.  So long as it hoards its possessions it keeps itself dark, its conduct
contradicts its true purpose. When it finds illumination it forgets itself in a moment, holds
the light high, and serves it with everything it has; for therein is its revelation.  This
revelation is the freedom which Buddha preached.  He asked the lamp to give up its oil.  But
purposeless giving up is a still darker poverty which he never could have meant.  The lamp
must give up its oil to the light and thus set free the purpose it has in its hoarding.  This
is emancipation. The path Buddha pointed out was not merely the practice of self- abnegation,
but the widening of love.  And therein lies the true meaning of Buddha's preaching.

When we find that the state of Nirvāna preached by Buddha is through love, then we know for
certain that Nirvāna is the highest culmination of love.  For love is an end unto itself. Everything
else raises the question "Why?" in our mind, and we require a reason for it.  But when we say,
"I love," then there is no room for the "why"; it is the final answer in itself.

Doubtless, even selfishness impels one to give away.  But the selfish man does it on compulsion.
That is like plucking fruit when it is unripe; you have to tear it from the tree and bruise
the branch.  But when a man loves, giving becomes a matter of joy to him, like the tree's surrender
of the ripe fruit.  All our belongings assume a weight by the ceaseless gravitation of our
selfish desires; we cannot easily cast them away from us.  They seem to belong to our very
nature, to stick to us as a second skin, and we bleed as we detach them.  But when we are possessed
by love, its force acts in the opposite direction.  The things that closely adhered to us lose
their adhesion and weight, and we find that they are not of us.  Far from being a loss to give
them away, we find in that the fulfilment of our being.

Thus we find in perfect love the freedom of our self.  That only which is done for love is
done freely, however much pain it may cause.  Therefore working for love is freedom in action.
This is the meaning of the teaching of disinterested work in the Gīta.

The Gīta says action we must have, for only in action do we manifest our nature.  But this
manifestation is not perfect so long as our action is not free.  In fact, our nature is obscured
by work done by the compulsion of want or fear.  The mother reveals herself in the service
of her children, so our true freedom is not the freedom from action but freedom in action,
which can only be attained in the work of love.

God's manifestation is in his work of creation and it is said in the Upanishad, Knowledge,
power, and action are of his nature [Footnote: "Svābhāvikī jnāna bala kriyācha."]; they are
not imposed upon him from outside.  Therefore his work is his freedom, and in his creation
he realises himself.  The same thing is said elsewhere in other words: From joy does spring
all this creation, by joy is it maintained, towards joy does it progress, and into joy does
it enter.  [Footnote: Ānandādhyēva khalvimāni bhūtāni jāyantē, ānandēna jātāni jīvanti, ānandamprayantyabhisamviçanti.]
It means that God's creation has not its source in any necessity; it comes from his fullness
of joy; it is his love that creates, therefore in creation is his own revealment.

The artist who has a joy in the fullness of his artistic idea objectifies it and thus gains
it more fully by holding it afar. It is joy which detaches ourselves from us, and then gives
it form in creations of love in order to make it more perfectly our own.  Hence there must
be this separation, not a separation of repulsion but a separation of love.  Repulsion has
only the one element, the element of severance.  But love has two, the element of severance,
which is only an appearance, and the element of union which is the ultimate truth.  Just as
when the father tosses his child up from his arms it has the appearance of rejection but its
truth is quite the reverse.

So we must know that the meaning of our self is not to be found in its separateness from God
and others, but in the ceaseless realisation of yoga, of union; not on the side of the canvas
where it is blank, but on the side where the picture is being painted.

This is the reason why the separateness of our self has been described by our philosophers
as māyā, as an illusion, because it has no intrinsic reality of its own.  It looks perilous;
it raises its isolation to a giddy height and casts a black shadow upon the fair face of existence;
from the outside it has an aspect of a sudden disruption, rebellious and destructive; it is
proud, domineering and wayward; it is ready to rob the world of all its wealth to gratify its
craving of a moment; to pluck with a reckless, cruel hand all the plumes from the divine bird
of beauty to deck its ugliness for a day; indeed man's legend has it that it bears the black
mark of disobedience stamped on its forehead for ever; but still all this māyā, envelopment
of avidyā; it is the mist, it is not the sun; it is the black smoke that presages the fire of love.

Imagine some savage who, in his ignorance, thinks that it is the paper of the banknote that
has the magic, by virtue of which the possessor of it gets all he wants.  He piles up the papers,
hides them, handles them in all sorts of absurd ways, and then at last, wearied by his efforts,
comes to the sad conclusion that they are absolutely worthless, only fit to be thrown into
the fire.  But the wise man knows that the paper of the banknote is all māyā, and until it
is given up to the bank it is futile.  It is only avidyā, our ignorance, that makes us believe
that the separateness of our self like the paper of the banknote is precious in itself, and
by acting on this belief our self is rendered valueless.  It is only when the avidyā is removed
that this very self comes to us with a wealth which is priceless.  For He manifests Himself
in forms which His joy assumes.  [Footnote: Ānandarūpamamritam yadvibhāti.]  These forms are
separate from Him, and the value that these forms have is only what his joy has imparted to
them.  When we transfer back these forms into that original joy, which is love, then we cash
them in the bank and we find their truth.

When pure necessity drives man to his work it takes an accidental and contingent character,
it becomes a mere makeshift arrangement; it is deserted and left in ruins when necessity changes
its course.  But when his work is the outcome of joy, the forms that it takes have the elements
of immortality.  The immortal in man imparts to it its own quality of permanence.

Our self, as a form of God's joy, is deathless.  For his joy is amritham, eternal.  This it
is in us which makes us sceptical of death, even when the fact of death cannot be doubted.
In reconcilement of this contradiction in us we come to the truth that in the dualism of death
and life there is a harmony.  We know that the life of a soul, which is finite in its expression
and infinite in its principle, must go through the portals of death in its journey to realise
the infinite.  It is death which is monistic, it has no life in it.  But life is dualistic;
it has an appearance as well as truth; and death is that appearance, that māyā, which is an
inseparable companion to life.  Our self to live must go through a continual change and growth
of form, which may be termed a continual death and a continual life going on at the same time.
It is really courting death when we refuse to accept death; when we wish to give the form of
the self some fixed changelessness; when the self feels no impulse which urges it to grow out
of itself; when it treats its limits as final and acts accordingly.  Then comes our teacher's
call to die to this death; not a call to annihilation but to eternal life.  It is the extinction
of the lamp in the morning light; not the abolition of the sun.  It is really asking us consciously
to give effect to the innermost wish that we have in the depths of our nature.

We have a dual set of desires in our being, which it should be our endeavour to bring into
a harmony.  In the region of our physical nature we have one set of which we are conscious
always. We wish to enjoy our food and drink, we hanker after bodily pleasure and comfort. 
These desires are self-centered; they are solely concerned with their respective impulses.
The wishes of our palate often run counter to what our stomach can allow.

But we have another set, which is the desire of our physical system as a whole, of which we
are usually unconscious.  It is the wish for health.  This is always doing its work, mending
and repairing, making new adjustments in cases of accident, and skilfully restoring the balance
wherever disturbed.  It has no concern with the fulfilment of our immediate bodily desires,
but it goes beyond the present time.  It is the principle of our physical wholeness, it links
our life with its past and its future and maintains the unity of its parts.  He who is wise
knows it, and makes his other physical wishes harmonise with it.

We have a greater body which is the social body.  Society is an organism, of which we as parts
have our individual wishes.  We want our own pleasure and license.  We want to pay less and
gain more than anybody else.  This causes scramblings and fights.  But there is that other
wish in us which does its work in the depths of the social being.  It is the wish for the welfare
of the society.  It transcends the limits of the present and the personal.  It is on the side
of the infinite.

He who is wise tries to harmonise the wishes that seek for self- gratification with the wish
for the social good, and only thus can he realise his higher self.

In its finite aspect the self is conscious of its separateness, and there it is ruthless in
its attempt to have more distinction than all others.  But in its infinite aspect its wish
is to gain that harmony which leads to its perfection and not its mere aggrandisement.

The emancipation of our physical nature is in attaining health, of our social being in attaining
goodness, and of our self in attaining love.  This last is what Buddha describes as extinction--the
extinction of selfishness--which is the function of love, and which does not lead to darkness
but to illumination. This is the attainment of bodhi, or the true awakening; it is the revealing
in us of the infinite joy by the light of love.

The passage of our self is through its selfhood, which is independent, to its attainment of
soul, which is harmonious. The prisoners he had punished, as them by lot and sympathizing every man.
Peter rewarded then the guard, and magnificently commenced these chastisement of all who were judged
solid in hanging of the conspiracy. Some were broken on the wheel and we then beheaded. Others
were reached in chains, of gibbets near the gates in the city, and
left, frozen of guilty decimating marble, to swing of the wind of
the long months of winter.

Stone monuments were erected, through which were engraved the names, the crimes and the punishment
on the rebels. A large number were banished of Siberia, on Astrachan, and on the shores of the
Sea as azof. The royal corps to the strelitzes was not abolished, and their place has supplied
by the new extent, marshaled and disciplined to the model to the german troops.
  For evil is not
infinite, and discord cannot be an end in itself.  Our will has freedom in order that it may
find out that its true course is towards goodness and love.  For goodness and love are infinite,
and only in the infinite is the perfect realisation of freedom possible.  So our will can be
free not towards the limitations of our self, not where it is māyā and negation, but towards
the unlimited, where is truth and love. Our freedom cannot go against its own principle of
freedom and yet be free; it cannot commit suicide and yet live.  We cannot say that we should
have infinite freedom to fetter ourselves, for the fettering ends the freedom.

So in the freedom of our will, we have the same dualism of appearance and truth--our self-will
is only the appearance of freedom and love is the truth.  When we try to make this appearance
independent of truth, then our attempt brings misery and proves its own futility in the end.
Everything has this dualism of māyā and satyam, appearance and truth.  Words are māyā where
they are merely sounds and finite, they are satyam where they are ideas and infinite.  Our
self is māyā where it is merely individual and finite, where it considers its separateness
as absolute; it is satyam where it recognises its essence in the universal and infinite, in
the supreme self, in paramātman.  This is what Christ means when he says, "Before Abraham was
I am."  This is the eternal I am that speaks through the I am that is in me.  The individual
I am attains its perfect end when it realises its freedom of harmony in the infinite I am.
Then is it mukti, its deliverance from the thraldom of māyā, of appearance, which springs from
avidyā, from ignorance; its emancipation in çāntam çivam advaitam, in the perfect repose in
truth, in the perfect activity in goodness, and in the perfect union in love.

Not only in our self but also in nature is there this separateness from God, which has been
described as māyā by our philosophers, because the separateness does not exist by itself, it
does not limit God's infinity from outside.  It is his own will that has imposed limits to
itself, just as the chess-player restricts his will with regard to the moving of the chessmen.
The player willingly enters into definite relations with each particular piece and realises
the joy of his power by these very restrictions.  It is not that he cannot move the chessmen
just as he pleases, but if he does so then there can be no play.  If God assumes his rôle of
omnipotence, then his creation is at an end and his power loses all its meaning.  For power
to be a power must act within limits.  God's water must be water, his earth can never be other
than earth.  The law that has made them water and earth is his own law by which he has separated
the play from the player, for therein the joy of the player consists.

As by the limits of law nature is separated from God, so it is the limits of its egoism which
separates the self from him.  He has willingly set limits to his will, and has given us mastery
over the little world of our own.  It is like a father's settling upon his son some allowance
within the limit of which he is free to do what he likes.  Though it remains a portion of the
father's own property, yet he frees it from the operation of his own will. The reason of it
is that the will, which is love's will and therefore free, can have its joy only in a union
with another free will.  The tyrant who must have slaves looks upon them as instruments of
his purpose.  It is the consciousness of his own necessity which makes him crush the will out
of them, to make his self-interest absolutely secure.  This self-interest cannot brook the
least freedom in others, because it is not itself free.  The tyrant is really dependent on
his slaves, and therefore he tries to make them completely useful by making them subservient
to his own will.  But a lover must have two wills for the realisation of his love, because
the consummation of love is in harmony, the harmony between freedom and freedom.  So God's
love from which our self has taken form has made it separate from God; and it is God's love
which again establishes a reconciliation and unites God with our self through the separation.
That is why our self has to go through endless renewals.  For in its career of separateness
it cannot go on for ever.  Separateness is the finitude where it finds its barriers to come
back again and again to its infinite source.  Our self has ceaselessly to cast off its age,
repeatedly shed its limits in oblivion and death, in order to realise its immortal youth. 
Its personality must merge in the universal time after time, in fact pass through it every
moment, ever to refresh its individual life.  It must follow the eternal rhythm and touch the
fundamental unity at every step, and thus maintain its separation balanced in beauty and strength.

The play of life and death we see everywhere--this transmutation of the old into the new. 
The day comes to us every morning, naked and white, fresh as a flower.  But we know it is old.
It is age itself.  It is that very ancient day which took up the newborn earth in its arms,
covered it with its white mantle of light, and sent it forth on its pilgrimage among the stars.

Yet its feet are untired and its eyes undimmed.  It carries the golden amulet of ageless eternity,
at whose touch all wrinkles vanish from the forehead of creation.  In the very core of the
world's heart stands immortal youth.  Death and decay cast over its face momentary shadows
and pass on; they leave no marks of their steps--and truth remains fresh and young.

This old, old day of our earth is born again and again every morning.  It comes back to the
original refrain of its music.  If its march were the march of an infinite straight line, if
it had not the awful pause of its plunge in the abysmal darkness and its repeated rebirth in
the life of the endless beginning, then it would gradually soil and bury truth with its dust
and spread ceaseless aching over the earth under its heavy tread.  Then every moment would
leave its load of weariness behind, and decrepitude would reign supreme on its throne of eternal
dirt.

