CREATING CAPITAL

MONEY-MAKING AS AN AIM IN BUSINESS

The object of this paper is to discuss money-making; to examine its prevalence as an aim among
people generally and the moral standards which obtain among those who consciously seek to make
money.

The desire to make money is common to most men. Stronger or weaker, in some degree it is present
in the mind of nearly every one. Now, how far does this desire grow to be an aim or object
in our lives, and to what extent is such an aim a worthy one?

The typical money-maker as commonly pictured in our imagination is a narrow, grasping, selfish
individual who has chosen to follow lower rather than higher ideals and who often is tempted,
and always may be tempted, to employ illegitimate means for the attainment of his ends. He found no resistance, after
  some small encounters almost no time, out of one or the other. The
  one was, that the passage of a mountains and where the Indians
  had fortified with palisades, were evicted a large portion of
  shots. The other, enemies wishing to enter the forest or jungle,
  to an Indian horse, which was taken for a coward among peers,
  (it was Lorenza) gave the body of the enemy, and leaving this
  come running through the squad that had been open, and shooting
  all his men returned without injury. But, while few who were
  to defend the way, although insurmountable enemy occupied the
  Monte Grande, and climbing the cavalry, to move the harshness
  of the mountain, remained in the gorge exit, and this was sure
  the forest for the infantry.
  
  106.

  Posted already but this, engaged the enemy in a job unlikely to
  blow up the rocks grueling mine: divided into parts carts,
  pulled the wheels turning, and transport all the other things on
  the shoulders of blacks, and Indian captives with the work of a
  month, and maybe even more. It worked so hard, on the third day
  of Easter the whole army was in payment, or stay in San Martin.
  Being here enemy, Michael is handing two letters in which they
  protested that they in no way had to give up their land, but had
  to withstand everything they could. Received them with scorn
  or ridicule, and were told that they Convenia work the example
  of St. Louis. And although Santa Fe residents, and those of
  the other cities said they, that They forced march, however,
  both generals, Spanish and Portuguese, with their presence urged
  the journey.
  

  107. For this reason, the Sunday after Easter, moved the
  actual head to the towns and arrived at the residence of
  San Bernardo, which is the town of Holy Angel, the following
  Sunday, with up to one week at other times being way one day,
  and nearby in this room waiting for the hidden and silent Indian
  Army, on the advice of the Gentiles Guanos and Minuanes.

108.
  After the second Sunday, May 3, and go down to San Bernardo's
  stay to the headwaters of the stream called Ibabiyú, which is within
sight of the residence of San Ignacio, the jurisdiction of San Miguel,
2,000 Indians came suddenly the recesses, where they hid, and spread
abroad through the tops of the hills opposite, and half-formed Moon:
the footmen stood on the hills, but the cavalry, led by the Gentiles,
to every race rushed to the enemy.

  This, pooling their cars in a circle formed a strong line, and extended
  his forehead to his squad, and it was defended with artillery
  and firearms, the forefront in the fight insisted, maintaining
  to night. Killed some Spanish, but do not know the number: because
  some say they were many, others twelve, and others less. Indians
  killed six of Holy Angel, a Nicole, a Michael, and no more.

109.
  At the end of next night the Indians came near to the trench
  of the enemy, and if they had done everything with silence
  would have done well their ploy: but as suddenly come near to crying,
  the whole army felt: then waking up the enemy, put on their arms
  and almost all day lasted the guerrillas, but without special
  advantage, unless the Cross took a troop of horses the enemy,
  having killed three of the guarding, the part of the Indians
  died only a Gentile.
  
  110.

  May 5th day the Indians were to repeat the attack, but the enemy
  on the silence of the night, pretending to retreat, as saw
  that the Indians had gone to take the roads that had in the back
  or rear, suddenly turned towards the villages formed and marched
  in battle. With whose sudden cunning Indians are perplexed, flew
  through the shortcuts they knew, the passage or ford a stream,
  called Chuniebí, which is not far from the town of San Miguel, but
  just five miles.
   As far as this majority
is concerned we might yet be living among rocks and trees, without shelter, lacking sure supplies
of food, with fig leaves to cover our nakedness. And to-day the same conditions obtain. How
many persons are to be found among one's acquaintance who feel and act upon any responsibility
for doing their "bit" in the creation of capital? Very few. Rather than exert himself to work
with this in view, on the one hand, and to abstain from unnecessary consumption, on the other
hand, the ordinary man will make to himself every excuse. He will contemn money-making as a
sordid aim, readily exaggerating itself into a vice; he will dwell upon the obligations and
other considerations of a higher life, this being defined as something generous and noble,
a something compared with which money-making cannot be regarded as a worthy object but must
be included in the class of unpleasant necessities, not to say indecencies, which ought to
be relegated to the background of life; he will summon up pictures of extreme poverty, where
any money received must be expended forthwith to meet urgent needs, as justifying that which
in his case is the gratification of shiftless indulgence. Above all, this typical individual
will not accept and act upon the idea that his affairs, his small income and expenditure, have
any bearing upon the prosperity and progress of his country. The most he will keep before him
is that he should pay his bills, and perhaps in some few cases, will extend the notion to the
future to include provision for the bills and possible emergencies then to be met by himself
and his family. Nor is this improvident attitude confined to the young, to the professional
and the other non-business classes. In the business world we see it all around us; among those
who "work for a living," among clerks and employees and among the so-called laboring classes
it appears to be the normal attitude. People who work for salaries or wages seem characteristically
to use up all their earnings in their current expenditure, to live up to their incomes without
any serious attempt to save. If they pride themselves upon trying to keep out of debt, it is
as much as they expect of themselves, and among them the man who attempts to go beyond this
in his money affairs is certainly the exception.

One of the effects of a world-wide war is an enormously increased demand for labor at high
and advancing wages, a condition that we might suppose would be greatly to the advantage of
the laborer. But that will depend upon his own attitude and policy. From England, and from
American towns here and there, we hear stories of the wage-earner on whom increasing income
has had the effect of lessening the effort to work; who stops during the week when the higher
wage scale has paid him the amount he is accustomed to regard as a week's earnings. Achieved this
  pacification, and having done three days of funerals for dead,
  visited the sick and gave them some things had given him. Les explanations
  the way of treatment, and rebuked the heads of the insurrection,
  correcting lovingly. It was not known at this month other
  than what happened in that town.
  

  60. They were not the best things the Indians in the river
  PHAC, or Yaguy, because not only were discordant between yes, but
  also with the captain Nenguirú: because, as noticed for among some
  people that the captain to be a fully delivered, and to
  others nothing, he also lost the will. By this time had frequent
  discussions with Portuguese, provoking them to always to go aside
  into the plain: but assured them everywhere on the banks of the
  river, with rough mountains, having cut for log walls, and having
  fortified, stood motionless. There were missing the real Indians
  who at night, and sometimes to hidden, they were to the enemy,
  drawn with Award hopes, and to make negotiations, which promised
  plenty of the enemy: and all peoples were to these fairs,
  they all pretended Michael, was to people acaballo, and those
  who saw it coming on foot, did not want the night believe the
  Michaels. These and other things were seed many disagreements
  between the armies of the Indians, so ever having had civil
  war or internal. Y finally settling in, evil, spread to the
  army, and each a determined return to his house, but was prevent
  this, namely, that it would return, and recruited everywhere
  troops over the peoples of the other side of Uruguay, and prepared
  new weapons, he would return in early January. The more prudent
  did not approve this project because it esponia all that province,
  and all the cattle, the ranchers, à invasions of the enemy. But
  others, still more adamant his view, de facto army began to fall
  apart, leaving. The first to be retired to his people or houses
  were Nicole, but before the departure of these, reached 200 Guano,
  with his noble captains, and then internuncios resubmitting the
  Royals of the Portuguese, caused to the fight, and defied
  the enemy, but in vain. Seeing as the enemy immobile, a captain
  of the Gentiles, called Moreira, went to talk with the enemy,
  and brought much grass and snuff you asked our Indians, and
  also meat to eat: because he said this, he was doing it by deception
  or fold.
   The laborer whose ideals are
such that he quits at the end of the fourth day is not the type of man who is going to spend
the two holidays in pursuing higher aims in life; he is going to pass them in inaction, quite
likely at the grog-shop. The man who fails to take advantage of the security for the future
offered him and his family through the opportunity of saving from extraordinary earnings is
one who is adding to the abnormal demand for such things as phonographs, jewelry, spirits,
and tobacco. And this helps to explain the tremendous market for luxuries during wartime. Doubtless
there are many workmen who follow a more rational course, who are reaping and storing the harvest
for the comfort and security of themselves and their families during the winter of life. Could
any one think that this policy involved an aim that was sordid, tending to draw them down,
and away from higher considerations of life? Certainly a course of careful planning in one's
affairs would be in so far a better course and on a higher plane than indulgence in idleness
or shiftless expenditure of surplus for present luxuries, regardless of future need. Took leave of his friends, who had many very good; prometióles that would
be with them next summer, illness or death if not prevented, left with them half of his soul, all
your wishes delivered to those dry sand, which seemed to him more fresh and green Elysian fields.
And because they are already accustomed to walk on foot took the road in his hand, and reached
two sandals from Zahara to Valladolid, singing "Three ducks, mother." Dwelt there fifteen days to
amend the color of the face, extracting mulatto to flamenco, and trastejarse, and removed from
the draft and put into clean rogue knighthood. All this made as and gave comfort hundred that
came true Valladolid, yet reserved Dellos percent to hire a mule and a boy, in its submission
their parents honored and happy. They received him with great joy, and all his friends and relatives
came to give them the good wishes of good coming of Don Diego de Carriazo your child.

Among those who came to see the newcomer was Don Juan de Avendaño
and his son, Don Thomas, Carriazo whom, being both the same age and
neighbors, locked and confirmed a friend very close.

Carriazo told his parents, and everyone, great and Luengas thousand lies things that had happened
in the three years of absence, but never touched, nor think, in traps, since in them had to
start contino imagination, especially when he saw the time came where he had promised his
friends around. Nor amused hunting, his father occupied, or the many, honest and tasty treats
at that used gave city like means any hobby you tired, and all the more to be We placed the
offering he had received in the traps.

Avendaño his friend, seeing him often melancholy and imaginative, confident in their friendship,
dared to ask the cause, and was forced to address it, if I could
and it were necessary, with the blood itself.

Tenérsela Carriazo declined covert, not to injure the great friendship professed, and so, point
by point told seine life, and how all your sorrows and thoughts born of the desire I had to
return to it: pintósela so that Avendano soon as he had heard, before they praised his taste reviled.
 Why do we associate money questions with that which is unhappy,
unfortunate, down-at-the-heel, with fear and misery? Barring mere accidents, it is because
we are careless, shiftless; because we do not face the problem manfully, practice reasonable
self-restraint, consider the subject in its complexity and decide upon, and carry out, a constructive
programme. Even if one happens to possess wealth, he is not exempt. Indeed, large wealth involves
still greater necessity for care in the conduct of one's pecuniary affairs. The rich man is
said to have perplexities and responsibilities which are unknown to those in moderate circumstances.
In fine, everyone must face these money questions or be driven by them.

Those who live on fixed incomes, whether from salary or investment, may find it impossible
to make any direct attempt to make money; for them the problem is to be confronted and mastered
on its other side, the side of spending and saving, that the income may be apportioned as wisely
as possible for the purposes of living. But during the last few years a new factor has entered
into the money problems of the individual, often adding to his trials, often adding to his
self-made excuses, and especially burdensome to the man on fixed income. We refer to the high
cost of living. Here it is, however, that the wage earner can do something in self-protection,
for the level of prices may be in some measure affected by his policy in handling his earnings.

A period of high wages is accompanied by and is in some sense an incident of a high level of
prices. Now we recognize high wages, considered in itself, as beneficial to the community,
for it gives opportunity, at least, for comforts in life and a provision for the future that
otherwise would be lacking. But if prices have advanced as much as wages, the apparent improvement
to the laborer is merely in nominal wages, while that which alone can benefit him is higher
real wages. Now let us see what the workman could do to advance real wages as contrasted with
nominal wages.

What will be the effect on prices of the use of surplus earnings during a period of high wages?

If the surplus earnings are expended, they will be used either in meeting the higher prices
of customary commodities, or in meeting these advanced prices and also in purchasing additional
commodities. The first case will occur only if, and when, the advance in price equals the advance
in wages, for only in that event will the new wages just cover the new cost of customary commodities.
Then this expenditure of the entire income in customary commodities tends to keep up the price
level and any benefit from higher wages disappears.

In the second case, so far as the worker spends his surplus earnings in meeting advanced prices
for customary commodities, he tends to maintain prices at the higher level, and so far as he
buys additional commodities, he increases the demand for them and tends further to advance
the price level.

If, on the other hand, the worker will save from his surplus earnings, he will increase the
community's capital, and this will tend, directly or indirectly, to cause the production of
further commodities, so increasing the supply of commodities and therefore tending to reduce
prices.

In any case, the worker should save as much as possible, as this tends to reduce the price
level and so to better his condition. Or, putting it more simply, in time of high wages the
worker ought to produce as much as possible and consume as little as possible, both influences
tending to increase the stock of commodities for his ultimate gain and for that of the community.

In fact, a high level of prices may be due measurably to some wasting of the world's capital--as
in war, for instance--and then the only antidote is to restore the capital, a movement that
would doubtless occur anyway in time but which could be greatly accelerated through a general
adoption of habits of thrift and saving throughout a community.

This then, though small, is something definite that we can contribute to the material advancement
of mankind and, like the duty in this connection to our nation, to our families and ourselves,
it consists in creating capital; that is, earning as much as we can and, in any event, even
if our earnings are fixed, managing the income thriftily, and carrying forward as large a net
result as possible.

We turn now from the mass of mankind, on the whole so singularly neglectful of these responsibilities,
to the few in number who constitute the creators of capital, to whom are due so much of the
comforts, the conveniences, and the material advantages that go to make civilized life possible.
Now these few are found in every rank in life. They may be rich or poor, professional or business
men, employer or employee, old or young, male or female. The characteristic is their habit
of thrift, of definitely adopting money-making as an aim, of spending less than they earn.
It is astonishing what a small percentage of mankind they are. The Income Tax returns in the
United States for 1916 showed that out of a population of 104,000,000 people those with taxable
incomes aggregated only 336,652, about one in three hundred. But whatever be the rank of the
individual practicing this thrift he is headed in the right direction and he tends to reach
the point of relative competence, of independence in his pecuniary affairs.

Preëminent in the class of the thrifty we think of the man of affairs; the business enterprise
indeed is supposed to be the money-maker, par excellence. Money-making is in fact considered
as its raison d'être; it is as a money-maker that the business man is contemned by some and
envied by many.

Now money-making and money values occupy a special place in business enterprise, due to the
fact that on economic principles such money value becomes the best test--perhaps the only true
test--of the workableness and success of business efforts. In the complicated activities of
the world's work, where each man, each undertaking, each business unit, respectively, is striving
primarily for its own advantage, how is it, among all this pulling and pushing, this competition,
that the social income is distributed so nearly in accordance with the individual contribution?
Even if we admit that many persons fail to get a fair share, that there is gross inequality
here and there, still after all, a student of mankind's activities in production, distribution,
and consumption must marvel at the extent to which the rewards approximate the value of contribution.
Now this is made possible by money considered as a measure of relative values, by the standard
or test of fitness embodied in the thought, Will it pay, and to what extent will it pay? If
I have in mind some new invention that will perhaps confer benefits on mankind, the best test
of its practicability and utility will be, Will it pay, will people buy it, pay money for it?
If an improvement in process is proposed, the question is, Will it pay? If the young man starts
out in life with high ideals and a reasonably good opinion of his own abilities, an opinion
fostered perhaps by fond parents and admiring friends, the question is, Will these abilities
fit in with the world's needs? Will they supply a real demand, will they be serviceable? The
best means of ascertaining this, although it may be only a rough estimate and although errors
occasionally creep in is, will they pay? Can he sell these services for real money? This criterion
is practically omnipresent in the world of affairs. It is amazing to imagine what would have taken this up beautifully brain if fortune
would have been favorable and could devote himself to study, no material concerns are as for
the intellectual shackles!

Uniquely characterized his early works the copy in dating. Its huge readings encyclopedic overturning
the will there, along with personal observations of people, events and things the viewer discovers
the sole right sight, will the relevant clause of the author or foreign national who sister or
matches, accompanied by his remark tasty. Or will the story, the story, the historical fact,
the Creole proverb brought to account to satirize and deduce their logical consequences. Well have
been written his first book, especially "South America", "Manual
of political pathology" and "Essay on Education."

IV .-- THE RELIGIOUS ISSUE

The religious issue has worried constantly Álvarez. Was ringing with unparalleled persistent about
it, urging his fellow citizens to study science, which put face to face with the religious
precept. It was "a liberal San Pablo," said Joaquín V. Gonzalez with over success. It has been
alleged and repróchasele as a feature of bad taste this emphasis, but, Alvarez was right. In
our country, religion takes many forms curious, is infiltrated every
corner of social life: at school, at home, in government, administration,
under the law.

And peers with a sharp eye for the right moment to regain the lost position.

Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been resolved in our country
in the world is no longer questioned. Nothing is more false or fanciful that this assertion.
The religious question is topical in the world today more than ever, and it comes out there mystical
or religious revival in humanity ... But the undeniable fact is that
war has cast into doubt the old ethical rules governing humanity today,
and in the foreground, religious norms.

In our country the religious problem is topical, Sarmiento to this part, especially practice in
his face. Civil registration with civil marriage, secular law and education, are gains of the
secular spirit of religious power.

Seemingly, the struggle - that muffled roars in different social groups - from religious precept
and ideals Lay has increasingly emphasized.

Even, therefore, may justly tachársele of inactual Alvarez.

In this connection, is accused of "materialist", had made up its mind on such extreme readings
- the "Unique" sources of their culture, says a critic - to approach old, backward, and saw
Within this perspective the religious problem.

Engineers believe that this indictment has answered in a definitive manner: "Nothing in Indeed
- he says - more false than the alleged identity of superstition with idealism, no There is
nothing more awkward than the vulgar to suggest that all secular moralists are "materialists"
and lack of ideals "and then adds:" There is nothing morally more materialistic practices outside
of all religions known and scrupulous capacity to set their rates
to intercede with the deity, nothing more idealist who practice and
preach the virtue truth as did most of the philosophers who died at
the stake on charges of heresy.

In this sense moral - and there is no one to appreciate an ideal
planter - Agustín Alvarez was an idealist all his life, never adhering
to the materialism of any known religion "[8].

V. - THE EDUCATOR

Alvarez was a teacher in the broadest sense of the word.

His temperament and his teacher vocation for teaching is manifested in many forms. Arguably
it was a constant concern.

Taught in the university chair - say their students - with real fervor. At the conference public,
the booklet and the book puts that same anointing teaching.

"Our disease is ignorance, its causes fanaticism" - type -. "The remedy is school, the physician
is the teacher.

"warns that America lives on" the holy candles to see who should work miracles, and will not turn
lights on intelligence children to light the way of life. "Trust in the school as the cure
for all our ills, but the school that science education, based on
the observation nature, secular education, for school, his good understanding,
it must teach the freedom and work and not for submission and abandonment.

His concern on the matter speak very clearly the substantial pages
left to die.

In his "Essay on Education" appeared in moments of greatest confusion of plans and programs Maximum
Victoria says: "The three chimes ringer called High Mass when wrote them. "

ARTURO E. DE LA MOTA.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT

THE MOTHER OF THE LAMB

The specific need of understanding is the explanation, as the specific need stomach is food.
Hunger and curiosity, then, are the two primitive factors fundamental human: one to ensure the
physical growth, the other to ensure mental growth, also necessary
for the preservation of the individual and the species.

No wings, no tail, no horn, no claws, no fangs, no poison, no spikes, no horns, no shell, no agility,
just for the intelligence man could overcome the other animal species
in the struggle for life, but, instead, the intelligence was in itself
a weapon or capable of developing power indefinitely, to rise higher
than birds and fall lower than the reptiles.

It is necessary to work to live, and we need to know to act.

Knowing the right or vice versa taste good or taste bad, it makes no difference to determine
the action or inaction and conduct in them, and just different to the outcome.

To find your way in the world, beyond the habit inherited instinct,
it is necessary to a concept, an idea, an explanation of the world,
very rough at first, and more and more elaborated later, because only
crude explanations can satisfy the understandings crude and refined
explanations can only satisfy the refined spirits.

Thus, for the fundamental gullibility of the child, the savage and ignorant, explanations are all
the more credible the more outrageous, more extraordinary, more fantastic, that that is, more
attractive, more impressive on the imagination predominant in them.

Systems of explanation of the universe, a priori beliefs about the unknown, were so necessary
to man to party and perform in the tangle of goods and evils that life unfolds, as the paths
and roads to travel on the ground, and both traffic areas the expansion necessarily had to produce
widening of the road.

Discover how and why to be specific to the facts and things was impossible. Imagine, was easy and inevitable,
then surrounded in all directions by the mystery, urged on by the need to know to act and prodded
by curious to know, men had to resort to the brooding fatally to decipher the mysteries of the
universe and life, to orient ourselves in the world and life, and
the mad house had to be responsible for furnish and equip the house.

For early man, the known history of their actions, the reason for their actions was inside that
mystery we call the will, and according to this first factor of own facts were explained,
of course, the actions of others as effects of other wills in other people, animals and things,
like the child who is angry with toys disobedient to their whims
and breaks, because the perpetrators believe that is voluntary; as
the cowboys of the range they believe that the mountain known to outsiders
and triggers then the storm to show their displeasure, as superstitious
Neapolitans believe that the proceedings do not like the priests and
flushed with rage when one goes from passengers.

Taking the first thing known - the self - as a basis or reference point for explanation of
other things, the man was necessarily the epitome of all things real
world, of course, and all the imaginary world then pleading directly
at the sun beginning to send the light and heat and avoided the clouds
and eclipses, and then Horus, Dionysus, to Phoebus Apollo, the Lord,
God, San Antonio or San Francisco.

Starting by assuming a willingness on or behind things to explain the particular of things,
the man reached by successive refinement, to imagine the unseen powers
as producers of incomprehensible facts, embodying them later in the
fetish for afraid to pay them, that is, worship.

And once conceived imaginary factors of the facts and things, came the need to influence those
to influence them, and the wizard - embryo of the bishop - took his position in the tribe the
useful function of scaring away evil spirits to heal patients.

The need to bring the role and brings the official procedure. The need to act on the invisible
powers brought to the magician and the magician brought magic, witchcraft second grade, and
bifurcated into two branches or specialties in Judaism and paganism,
a to appease the angry imaginary powers or promote them through sacrifices
laudatory and genuflecting, as "the blood and suffering of humans
were the nectar of the gods ", the other to forecast or predict its
determinations, interpreting, as the method of the prophets, the visions
of the imagination exalted by fasting and solitude, in Judaism, or
the dreams and omens, according to the method of fortune tellers and
soothsayers in paganism.

Meanwhile, next to the old mythologies and liturgies perfected philosophy arise and Greek literature,
which, decreasing human gullibility, the prestige first break the diviners of the future,
then the actual effectiveness of the current theogonies for to unmet human curiosity widened
in the Greco-Roman. Y man needs, then, on the shores of the Mediterranean, a new explanation
of facts and things in the world, and is provided by the Christian supernaturalism, with two testaments
as a new theory of the facts and things, and the sacraments - witchcraft third grade - as a
new vehicle of communication between human beings suffer accidents of life and events in the
universe, and the superhuman beings that occur, discontinue or change
at will.

East astrologers were to investigate the future questioning the stars and necromancers to know the
hidden things of the occult, in the West exorcists to expel the demons
from the body of the possessed, and blessed to induce the dead to
produce goods and avoid evils to the living.

Albeit very slowly, because the Church, forbidding the doubt and curiosity to preserve its tenets,
has dented the pricks that drive men to seek, investigate and find out to know, the human mind
has always been growing in scope and complexity, straight and parallel with reduced fear of witches, goblins,
devils and basilisks and the last suit or catechism imaginary terrors
and hopes, with the revelations made of the prophets and apostles,
comes, too, were too tight.

The exorcism, which had thousands of thousands victims, burning heretics,
haunted and possessed, - hysterical, crazy and wise - he could not
hold to human intelligence reaching more and dropped the first, definitely,
at the dawn of the nineteenth century.

At first, the Church, then all-powerful, fighting disbelief nascent able to maintain the integrity
of your explanation, creed, destroying or crushing which, since the Renaissance, began to excel
in mental capacity, but they continue to sprout everywhere and in such a progression that
war, excommunication, torture and the stake, operating at the maximum, not enough at last to
be removed, and in turn, she also begins to retreat, before the rising
tide of dissatisfaction with the curious ultimate explanation of nature
and the supernatural.

Because alchemy has been opening the way to physics and chemistry, have revived the philosophy,
literature and art, and human understanding, on the road again, beginning
to repel the miracles of the dead and the prophets hysterical aberrations
and Doctors of the Church, following the poor in spirit communion.

A new explanation of the world is becoming necessary for open minds Europe and America, and started
in the last century the positive sciences, regardless unknowable origin of things to explain the
facts of nature natural causes; leaving why they occur, which until now has spread to the faithful
and unfaithful men, bitter and angry each other on their different priori explanation of the mysteries
the universe to contract to investigate how they are produced, that being yourself for all
observers, is a common capital for men of all races, all colors,
locations and climates, a bond of mutual approach for mutual benefit.

And without a priesthood in isolation from family and homeland and devoted exclusively to propagate
and operate without orders of chivalry and preachers to its service without Jesuits fighters their
flanks, without missionaries to disseminate it without a pope at its head, not despots to impose
it by force, the ultimate explanation of universe and life expands, diffuses and spreads spontaneously,
not on the edge of the sword, and medieval religions, but on the wings of the book and newspaper,
enlisting its own intrinsic superiority to all men and women, as beyond the intellectual level
of the past that occurred official superstitions official religions, because just as fetishism
Catholic v. gr. it is inappropriate for black African tribes, because it is too big for your understanding
still too narrow, it is also inappropriate for unwrapped minds of Europe and America because
it is too small and too petty.

Gross ignorance of the grossest superstition, and helping the mild climate and soil fertility in
privileged regions, one at another superstition to highest of the highest to science compulsory
creed to free thought, truth revealed the truth demonstrated, in the religious magic rational
mechanics; of palms blessed the lightning rod, the miracle steam, railway, telegraph, telephone,
of rogation to the surgery and the serum of ecclesiastical censorship to freedom of the press;
"the holy ignorance" to compulsory education, this has been the upward march human spirit, driven
by the need to know the why of things to behave opposite things.

Question of thousands or hundreds of centuries to climb the first steps of evolution, tens only to
the past, has become, under the impulse of instruction liberal public,
a matter of only dozens of years to achieve significant capacity increases
mental in the individual and the community.

Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part
of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted
up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting
enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with
the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France
For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged
Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more
than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South
and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural
in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible
in Morocco.

Now, superstition, is not a false knowledge of things, is a activity of the mind - very poor, no
doubt, but "better than nothing" - and according with the aforementioned laws, the mind developed
by the former superstitions, how slowly it was, grew at last, somewhere, enough to exceed them, making
necessary the second, then third, and so on, culminating in paganism
gender, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity and Mohammedanism, which topped
the age of the imagination.

Poorly fed with lies, myths and legends, human intelligence has grown, Finally, enough food to
need more consistent, less fantastic explanations and more positive events and things of the
world, and started, then the age of reason, the progressive domination
of man over the forces of nature conquered with positive methods of
investigation.

As the men themselves, like animals all that at the end of their limited career pass to be a burden
and hindrance, letters over the deck of universal life, he can not keep his perpetual youth,
but by the perpetual renewal, the beliefs that extend beyond effectiveness of your radio,
just as excessively elongated fingernails of aristocrats Siamese, for pregnant and narrow existence,
should be, then swept by the benefactors oblivion and death, giving rise to new institutions, new
forms of motion perpetual art. The evolution of beliefs has been parallel with the understanding,
and gods, demigods and current demigoddesses descended from prehistoric
fetishes, as modern man descended from the caveman. The demand for investment advice has not failed to call forth a supply
of advisers, and elaborate are the schemes designed to lure the unwary. But, generally speaking,
the man who falls into the clutches of these birds of prey has himself to blame, for the reason
that the temptations they offer are appeals to the illegitimate desire to get something for
nothing or to the foolish notion that one can get-rich-quick in some way whispered about by
a stranger, and out of sheer benevolence. The fact is that the wise man will dismiss all thought
of making money out of his investments; he will seek only the moderate return which alone is
consistent with safety; and with this policy, will turn a deaf ear to any so-called opportunity
which promises big profits. We can summarize the matter by saying that concentration upon one's
business and service implies that one should not attempt to make money elsewhere.

This concentration on one's affairs therefore grows into a sort of practical system in which
each member of the business community is looking after some function or activity to the exclusion
of other things. And so the world's work is carried on to the best advantage, each function
being filled by those particular men who have become relatively expert therein. From this system
arises a business habit or method not always understood by the young and inexperienced, by
the non-business person. We refer to the practice in trade of leaving to each individual, to
each enterprise, to each organization, the responsibility for looking out for its own interests
when having dealings with others. Caveat emptor--let the buyer beware--expresses an extreme
development of this, and in its common signification, that each side is to be permitted and
expected to take any advantage of the other side that it may be able to secure, it describes
a state of warfare rather than of business. In buying and selling, in aiming to obtain the
most favorable terms for each line of his activity, in meeting conditions of competition, in
all these relations, the business man is endeavoring to better himself and may doubtless be
tempted here and there to forget the interests of the other party to the transaction. But to
yield to such temptation would merely be to abuse a principle which on the whole is sanctioned
by the requirements of economic efficiency. This principle is that the nearest approximation
to effective justice in business transactions is reached when on each side the parties devote
themselves to their respective interests and points of view. If A has a house for sale and
B is a prospective buyer, the essence of the possible transaction between the two is that A's
idea of the value of the property is different from B's idea of that value; or at any rate
that A sees less value in it to him than does B to B. This is of course typical of all business
transactions--the seller desires the money above the commodity, the buyer prefers the commodity
to the money. The seller and the buyer each dwells naturally upon his own idea of value. This
is altogether desirable, not to say indispensable, and is characteristic of every relation
of business, wherever two men buy and sell, employ one another, or have other dealings together.
The situation is somewhat the same as in a law suit where the duty of the attorney for the
plaintiff is to make every point that fairly can be made for the plaintiff, while the attorney
on the other side must correspondingly make every point that can properly be made for the defendant.
Each side is supposed to look after the interest of that side. Similarly, in a business organization,
say a railroad, when some new project is under consideration it will be submitted to the engineer,
to the chemist, to the attorney, to the practical transportation man, and in each of these
departments it is expected that the wisdom born of experience in the particular function will
be brought to bear. And if done by the sell
advantage that can be followed, do not come so bare this guild, you can not Entry pay more
than they are worth four mules.

- Well, it wants Mr Andrew Knight - said another gypsy - the no-fault death, and God know if I regret,
and for its youth, it has not yet closed (which is not used between
mules for hire), as it should be wandering, it has no crust on the
flanks, or wounds, on the spur.

Dilatóse his death until night, and the remainder of that day were the ceremonies Andrés input
to a gypsy, which were jettisoned after a ranch in the best the horde, and adornáronle of branches
and pine needles, and Andrew sitting on a medium oak, put him in the hands a hammer and tongs,
and the sound of two guitars that two Roma rang, I did give two somersaults, then stripped
him an arm and a silk ribbon and a new club gave him two laps gently. A Beautiful everything
was present and many Roma, old and young girls, that the one with
wonder, others with love, I looked: such was the graceful arrangement
of Andrew, that even the gypsies were aficionadísimos.

Having thus, the aforementioned ceremonies, an old gypsy hand made by Preciosa, and since in front
of Andrew, said:

- This girl, who is the best and brightest of all the beauty of the Roma we know that living
in Spain, we deliver it to wife, because our free and easy life is not subject to a lot of fuss
or ceremony. Look at it, and see if you like, or if it Vees something you unhappy, and if you see,
you choose from the girls here are the most will be content, that we chose you to give, but
know that once chosen, not have to leave the other. # # With our laws and statutes we stay
and live happy; we are masters of the fields, the fields, the jungles, forests, sources and
rivers, the mountains give us wood bucket, trees, fruits, vines, grapes; orchards, vegetable,
sources, water, rivers, fish, and closed seasons, hunting the shadows rocks, fresh air, bankruptcies,
and houses the caves. For us the elements of heaven are oreos, snack, snow, rain baths, music
and thunder and lightning axes; for us are the dumps hard soft bed mattresses, the leather
of our bodies serves as an impenetrable harness that defends us, our light not prevent crickets,
or stop gullies or walls in contrast, to our mind does not twist
ropes, pulleys or undermine him or drown him play, nor tame horses. Such permanent returns can only be
sought through adherence to ethical principles and although this aim at profits becomes the
power plant which drives the business machine, the latter gives its energies and attention
more directly to the rendering of service.

Concentration upon service tends to make a man relatively efficient therein, but argues a relative
unfamiliarity with the field of others, from which we infer the advisability of confining one's
activity to the thing he has learned to do best. As an example of this, he should avoid placing
his surplus capital or savings in outside enterprises where they will partake of risks that
are unknown to him, nor should he attempt to employ his savings at all with the purpose of
making money, unless, indeed, he can use them as capital in his own business. A nation of gentlemen that there was abundant
manhood, well, that is, a town of respectable thieves. The dithyramb, the eulogy, unconditional
submission to the potentate was a means to achieve positions of conquering ranks styling and fortune.
His spirit elite hit the sensuality of crooks and spivs environment and marked it with a pen of
fire.

For being the "epitome of common sense or intellectual mediocrity"
- has hinted there - "could sustain his life, the example of the theories
face their narrow vision. "

We have found, on the other hand, that apart from men in charge of business enterprise, the
burden of providing thus for man's welfare and development is assumed by very few, the vast
majority, whether in professional or business employment, treating it with neglect and contempt. If you gustáredes aceto
this game, not defend yourself, you will enjoy the lives and freedom, not you has to captivate
in any way, look at him, and if not, else prepare to defend yourselves from our weapons, continued
winning. " This is why we have prepared the architecture
and credulity, and have not developed the music, sculpture, painting and critical thinking
among Muslims, which is why the ability to invent is unfolded among Christians in all spheres
of present needs, since Modern Philosophy church broke barriers that had confined in the order
future needs. Carlos Aldana said that "those of Spanish origin have not invented a nail to
improve the welfare of man. "


