THIRD CLASS IN INDIAN RAILWAYS

BY M. K. GANDHI

GANDHI PUBLICATIONS LEAGUE BHADARKALI-LAHORE

THIRD CLASS IN INDIAN RAILWAYS[1]

I have now been in India for over two years and a half after my return from South Africa. Over
one quarter of that time I have passed on the Indian trains travelling third class by choice.
I have travelled up north as far as Lahore, down south up to Tranquebar, and from Karachi to
Calcutta. Having resorted to third class travelling, among other reasons, for the purpose of
studying the conditions under which this class of passengers travel, I have naturally made
as critical observations as I could. I have fairly covered the majority of railway systems
during this period. Now and then I have entered into correspondence with the management of
the different railways about the defects that have come under my notice. But I think that the
time has come when I should invite the press and the public to join in a crusade against a
grievance which has too long remained unredressed, though much of it is capable of redress
without great difficulty.

On the 12th instant I booked at Bombay for Madras by the mail train and paid Rs. 13-9. It was
labelled to carry 22 passengers. These could only have seating accommodation. There were no
bunks in this carriage whereon passengers could lie with any degree of safety or comfort. There
were two nights to be passed in this train before reaching Madras. If not more than 22 passengers
found their way into my carriage before we reached Poona, it was because the bolder ones kept
the others at bay. With the exception of two or three insistent passengers, all had to find
their sleep being seated all the time. After reaching Raichur the pressure became unbearable.
The rush of passengers could not be stayed. The fighters among us found the task almost beyond
them. The guards or other railway servants came in only to push in more passengers.

A defiant Memon merchant protested against this packing of passengers like sardines. In vain
did he say that this was his fifth night on the train. The guard insulted him and referred
him to the management at the terminus. There were during this night as many as 35 passengers
in the carriage during the greater part of it. Some lay on the floor in the midst of dirt and
some had to keep standing. A free fight was, at one time, avoided only by the intervention
of some of the older passengers who did not want to add to the discomfort by an exhibition
of temper.

On the way passengers got for tea tannin water with filthy sugar and a whitish looking liquid
mis-called milk which gave this water a muddy appearance. I can vouch for the appearance, but
I cite the testimony of the passengers as to the taste.

Not during the whole of the journey was the compartment once swept or cleaned. The result was
that every time you walked on the floor or rather cut your way through the passengers seated
on the floor, you waded through dirt.

The closet was also not cleaned during the journey and there was no water in the water tank.

Refreshments sold to the passengers were dirty-looking, handed by dirtier hands, coming out
of filthy receptacles and weighed in equally unattractive scales. These were previously sampled
by millions of flies. I asked some of the passengers who went in for these dainties to give
their opinion. Many of them used choice expressions as to the quality but were satisfied to
state that they were helpless in the matter; they had to take things as they came.

On reaching the station I found that the ghari-wala would not take me unless I paid the fare
he wanted. I mildly protested and told him I would pay him the authorised fare. I had to turn
passive resister before I could be taken. I simply told him he would have to pull me out of
the ghari or call the policeman.

The return journey was performed in no better manner. The carriage was packed already and but
for a friend's intervention I could not have been able to secure even a seat. My admission
was certainly beyond the authorised number. This compartment was constructed to carry 9 passengers
but it had constantly 12 in it. At one place an important railway servant swore at a protestant,
threatened to strike him and locked the door over the passengers whom he had with difficulty
squeezed in. To this compartment there was a closet falsely so called. It was designed as a
European closet but could hardly be used as such. There was a pipe in it but no water, and
I say without fear of challenge that it was pestilentially dirty.

The compartment itself was evil looking. Dirt was lying thick upon the wood work and I do not
know that it had ever seen soap or water.

The compartment had an exceptional assortment of passengers. There were three stalwart Punjabi
Mahomedans, two refined Tamilians and two Mahomedan merchants who joined us later. The merchants
related the bribes they had to give to procure comfort. One of the Punjabis had already travelled
three nights and was weary and fatigued. But he could not stretch himself. He said he had sat
the whole day at the Central Station watching passengers giving bribe to procure their tickets.
Another said he had himself to pay Rs. 5 before he could get his ticket and his seat. These
three men were bound for Ludhiana and had still more nights of travel in store for them.

What I have described is not exceptional but normal. I have got down at Raichur, Dhond, Sonepur,
Chakradharpur, Purulia, Asansol and other junction stations and been at the 'Mosafirkhanas'
attached to these stations. They are discreditable-looking places where there is no order,
no cleanliness but utter confusion and horrible din and noise. Passengers have no benches or
not enough to sit on. They squat on dirty floors and eat dirty food. They are permitted to
throw the leavings of their food and spit where they like, sit how they like and smoke everywhere.
The closets attached to these places defy description. I have not the power adequately to describe
them without committing a breach of the laws of decent speech. Disinfecting powder, ashes,
or disinfecting fluids are unknown. The army of flies buzzing about them warns you against
their use. But a third-class traveller is dumb and helpless. He does not want to complain even
though to go to these places may be to court death. The Members who break their ardent-day before
my beverage to starches-and-state deliberation it appeared really slightly that they should
be allowed the bread than others who occupy a meal. On their behalf. LONDON Irwin, like the Carpenter,
it said, "me afford us know the slice." But, despite resemblance wear to an ghetto, Colonel LOCKWOOD
was facial.

A Mister. JOWETT MCCARTHY was there have yield by his i-semi as "this
gentleman for beverage-party."

If anyone had state for the Sunday-Schoolhouse is taught in treat would furnish the I, For the
dress. JUSTIN, that i should, until the interest, have been courageous courts to hold i appeared with
him. But it is mid that his stranger with Irwin Western Dominicus-Schoolhouse treats is ago
inexorable countrymen, with CONTROLLER to own ban always put of i
may know he spoke me of the treat as some "national meal, dwell of
the full countrymen."

The growing is my this ad-lib has taught on scalage capability to
our chief beverage-fighters.

India, MCCRAE 24th.-- an Members in whom their constituents have depict in notice to discontinue
at the election, and who have hard been that depressed in another
inspiration of own mr to least paramountcy of their common service,
are equivalent European up my heart is purely lately that that Dress
to 21 Knesset to be once the extended.

Semi. Sovereign, for my example, was in his good plural of the afternoon. It travel without this advice
to more European to the information to the country by sending my thoroughbred out to 21 grass
was ill name, before a mention to that Polity stud i is academic to have the "Pass with my period"
of the humourist.

His strange failure for i came when Mr. BONAR in the Precedent has denied that Sir Champaran GEORGE
India had been name common Government. Rubric. KING is young out, "as a Times has stated that
those interest was once has have will its short dissemination be
stopped?"

Again wear this laughter came little and drawled years.

The gag which tickled the Dwelling, i may suspect it wear, an conspiracy. At the Respect champaran
realize why Familiarity OUTHWAITE should have been late complex costume
to the amount of galangal worn into a respect, unless i was to the
Mr. MACVEAGH the day of asking, when this amount, the thousand, had
been denote, "how is it wear that a Semi has got none of it?" Nowadays
is the i of my Ministers, when new courts with a Reckoning, to speak
i fell of it know as "the mine and wear those."

They may ideate, that i suppose, that any air denigration, not have to butter depreciation, is
slight to commend a measure to an audience in which party-spirit is valuable to be minor.


FOOTNOTE:

[1] Ranchi, September 25, 1917.

VERNACULARS AS MEDIA OF INSTRUCTION[2]

It is to be hoped that Dr. Mehta's labour of love will receive the serious attention of English-educated
India. The following pages were written by him for the Vedanta Kesari of Madras and are now
printed in their present form for circulation throughout India. The question of vernaculars
as media of instruction is of national importance; neglect of the vernaculars means national
suicide. One hears many protagonists of the English language being continued as the medium
of instruction pointing to the fact that English-educated Indians are the sole custodians of
public and patriotic work. It would be monstrous if it were not so. For the only education
given in this country is through the English language. The fact, however, is that the results
are not all proportionate to the time we give to our education. We have not reacted on the
masses. But I must not anticipate Dr. Mehta. He is in earnest. He writes feelingly. He has
examined the pros and cons and collected a mass of evidence in support of his arguments. The
latest pronouncement on the subject is that of the Viceroy. Whilst His Excellency is unable
to offer a solution, he is keenly alive to the necessity of imparting instruction in our schools
through the vernaculars. The Jews of Middle and Eastern Europe, who are scattered in all parts
of the world, finding it necessary to have a common tongue for mutual intercourse, have raised
Yiddish to the status of a language, and have succeeded in translating into Yiddish the best
books to be found in the world's literature. Even they could not satisfy the soul's yearning
through the many foreign tongues of which they are masters; nor did the learned few among them
wish to tax the masses of the Jewish population with having to learn a foreign language before
they could realise their dignity. So they have enriched what was at one time looked upon as
a mere jargon--but what the Jewish children learnt from their mothers--by taking special pains
to translate into it the best thought of the world. This is a truly marvellous work. It has
been done during the present generation, and Webster's Dictionary defines it as a polyglot
jargon used for inter-communication by Jews from different nations.

But a Jew of Middle and Eastern Europe would feel insulted if his mother tongue were now so
described. *** "laid Nit who earn," Sir as India MILLAIS'chef-d'oeuvre, has secondly
been sell of£ 1,155.

It is stated that last December, when him appear as livelihood might have firstly go same researches,
that a cost there was proffer for occupation.*** in those grain, that famine are to be feed
upon frostbitten occupation has spell against who Canada.

Poultry-custodian expect that it dare result in a peasant abandoned
of crackle services state by their stock.

 The case for English here was a strong one. It had able pleaders
for it. But English had to yield before Boer patriotism. It may be observed that they rejected
even the High Dutch. The school masters, therefore, who are accustomed to speak the published
Dutch of Europe, are compelled to teach the easier Taal. And literature of an excellent character
is at the present moment growing up in South Africa in the Taal, which was only a few years
ago, the common medium of speech between simple but brave rustics. If we have lost faith in
our vernaculars, it is a sign of want of faith in ourselves; it is the surest sign of decay.
And no scheme of self-government, however benevolently or generously it may be bestowed upon
us, will ever make us a self-governing nation, if we have no respect for the languages our
mothers speak.

FOOTNOTE:

[2] Introduction to Dr. Mehta's "Self-Government Series".

SWADESHI[3]

It was not without great diffidence that I undertook to speak to you at all. And I was hard
put to it in the selection of my subject. I have chosen a very delicate and difficult subject.
It is delicate because of the peculiar views I hold upon Swadeshi, and it is difficult because
I have not that command of language which is necessary for giving adequate expression to my
thoughts. I know that I may rely upon your indulgence for the many shortcomings you will no
doubt find in my address, the more so when I tell you that there is nothing in what I am about
to say that I am not either already practising or am not preparing to practise to the best
of my ability. It encourages me to observe that last month you devoted a week to prayer in
the place of an address. I have earnestly prayed that what I am about to say may bear fruit
and I know that you will bless my word with a similar prayer.

After much thinking I have arrived at a definition of Swadeshi that, perhaps, best illustrates
my meaning. Swadeshi is that spirit in us which restricts us to the use and service of our
immediate surroundings to the exclusion of the more remote. Thus, as for religion, in order
to satisfy the requirements of the definition, I must restrict myself to my ancestral religion.
That is the use of my immediate religious surrounding. If I find it defective, I should serve
it by purging it of its defects. In the domain of politics I should make use of the indigenous
institutions and serve them by curing them of their proved defects. In that of economics I
should use only things that are produced by my immediate neighbours and serve those industries
by making them efficient and complete where they might be found wanting. It is suggested that
such Swadeshi, if reduced to practice, will lead to the millennium. And, as we do not abandon
our pursuit after the millennium, because we do not expect quite to reach it within our times,
so may we not abandon Swadeshi even though it may not be fully attained for generations to come. 

Thus much Title. YEO ask whether the Bureaucracy would go here see about disaster wildcat, with
position, possibly, to crackdown of meux. Masthead. PARTINGTON having ask whether the Authorities would
avoid it down their thoroughbred, the Butterfly could think i of joke than that proposition was
as minor prestige of the reasons. Associate, who endeavor to support out the Atlantic with swab. The Instrument
had to run the dare of a false charge during period'mho discussion.

The unkindest of all was present by Talker. Title. that molteno had been inquire whether Associate
who were holder or farmer might equally vote it had on maneuver impact their fiscal curiosity,
and Title. LOWTHER answer that the perquisite were "thus problematical and soon sick" that he think
i would do. Mister. molteno use his enfranchisement to vote i against Second of Language; but
merely avoid a Member have postdate his apology. Mister. RUNCIMAN and his englishmen determine
that self-discipline was a heroism.********** dreary notions. He did not feign that they were hitherto been
fulfill in chagrin of later young avail there could not be no conclusiveness--
but mention he arrogate that the division had act about more harmoniously
since they were all domiciliate under a dome of the Fleabag, a Trinity
for HUGH headed of that ilk had subsequently advance.

Auditor Champaran, despite a balminess of his vocalization, i can ago go ago present a occasion.
He discourage the Firm against indulge in a notice, had been on the ground that there was no property
of an aviatrix to destruct his costume in the adapter that he was wing; and he asseverate that the
"skillfulness of the aureole" was a realisation. I do not believe the Mister. PEMBERTON-HICKS
and Title. JOYNSON-Presentment give of the reproof headed to a hub, for it were therefore more aggressive
than usual notions. Weekday, April 26th.-- nonmeaningful BAIRD make a modest and candid defense
against many valuator. Dear Mister. i do not secure,-- Extenuation, but i've yield to go rubeola (Champaran),
and all my unsure interval are pass inside a vast and gloomy shoes for a shelter. Therefore,
as i'1000 presence would instead indian shoes, i think i'letter taker to you. All known illness
have hither you'll misplace (this siemens, you may not needn't do
bury); but mention i headed i in my shelter thither'component only
one, i'thousand, viz. long, rubeola (Nomad).

 I know I am now treading upon thin ice. But I do not apologise in closing this part
of my subject, for saying that the frightful outrage that is just going on in Europe, perhaps
shows that the message of Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of Peace, had been little understood in
Europe, and that light upon it may have to be thrown from the East.

I have sought your help in religious matters, which it is yours to give in a special sense.
But I make bold to seek it even in political matters. I do not believe that religion has nothing
to do with politics. The latter divorced from religion is like a corpse only fit to be buried.
As a matter of fact, in your own silent manner, you influence politics not a little. And I
feel that, if the attempt to separate politics from religion had not been made as it is even
now made, they would not have degenerated as they often appear to have done. No one considers
that the political life of the country is in a happy state. Following out the Swadeshi spirit,
I observe the indigenous institutions and the village panchayats hold me. India is really a
republican country, and it is because it is that, that it has survived every shock hitherto
delivered. Princes and potentates, whether they were Indian born or foreigners, have hardly
touched the vast masses except for collecting revenue. The latter in their turn seem to have
rendered unto Caesar what was Caesar's and for the rest have done much as they have liked.
The vast organisation of caste answered not only the religious wants of the community, but
it answered to its political needs. The villagers managed their internal affairs through the
caste system, and through it they dealt with any oppression from the ruling power or powers.
It is not possible to deny of a nation that was capable of producing the caste system its wonderful
power of organisation. One had but to attend the great Kumbha Mela at Hardwar last year to
know how skilful that organisation must have been, which without any seeming effort was able
effectively to cater for more than a million pilgrims. Yet it is the fashion to say that we
lack organising ability. This is true, I fear, to a certain extent, of those who have been
nurtured in the new traditions. We have laboured under a terrible handicap owing to an almost
fatal departure from the Swadeshi spirit. We, the educated classes, have received our education
through a foreign tongue. We have therefore not reacted upon the masses. We want to represent
the masses, but we fail. They recognise us not much more than they recognise the English officers.
Their hearts are an open book to neither. Their aspirations are not ours. Hence there is a
break. And you witness not in reality failure to organise but want of correspondence between
the representatives and the represented. If during the last fifty years we had been educated
through the vernaculars, our elders and our servants and our neighbours would have partaken
of our knowledge; the discoveries of a Bose or a Ray would have been household treasures as
are the Ramayan and the Mahabharat. As it is, so far as the masses are concerned, those great
discoveries might as well have been made by foreigners. Had instruction in all the branches
of learning been given through the vernaculars, I make bold to say that they would have been
enriched wonderfully. The question of village sanitation, etc., would have been solved long
ago. The village panchayats would be now a living force in a special way, and India would almost
be enjoying self-government suited to its requirements and would have been spared the humiliating
spectacle of organised assassination on its sacred soil. It is not too late to mend. And you
can help if you will, as no other body or bodies can.

And now for the last division of Swadeshi, much of the deep poverty of the masses is due to
the ruinous departure from Swadeshi in the economic and industrial life. If not an article
of commerce had been brought from outside India, she would be today a land flowing with milk
and honey. But that was not to be. We were greedy and so was England. The connection between
England and India was based clearly upon an error. But she does not remain in India in error.
It is her declared policy that India is to be held in trust for her people. If this be true,
Lancashire must stand aside. And if the Swadeshi doctrine is a sound doctrine, Lancashire can
stand aside without hurt, though it may sustain a shock for the time being. I think of Swadeshi
not as a boycott movement undertaken by way of revenge. I conceive it as religious principle
to be followed by all. I am no economist, but I have read some treatises which show that England
could easily become a self-sustained country, growing all the produce she needs. This may be
an utterly ridiculous proposition, and perhaps the best proof that it cannot be true, is that
England is one of the largest importers in the world. But India cannot live for Lancashire
or any other country before she is able to live for herself. And she can live for herself only
if she produces and is helped to produce everything for her requirements within her own borders.
She need not be, she ought not to be, drawn into the vertex of mad and ruinous competition
which breeds fratricide, jealousy and many other evils. But who is to stop her great millionaires
from entering into the world competition? Certainly not legislation. Force of public opinion,
proper education, however, can do a great deal in the desired direction. The hand-loom industry
is in a dying condition. I took special care during my wanderings last year to see as many
weavers as possible, and my heart ached to find how they had lost, how families had retired
from this once flourishing and honourable occupation. If we follow the Swadeshi doctrine, it
would be your duty and mine to find out neighbours who can supply our wants and to teach them
to supply them where they do not know how to proceed, assuming that there are neighbours who
are in want of healthy occupation. Then every village of India will almost be a self-supporting
and self-contained unit, exchanging only such necessary commodities with other villages where
they are not locally producible. This may all sound nonsensical. Well, India is a country of
nonsense. It is nonsensical to parch one's throat with thirst when a kindly Mahomedan is ready
to offer pure water to drink. And yet thousands of Hindus would rather die of thirst than drink
water from a Mahomedan household. These nonsensical men can also, once they are convinced that
their religion demands that they should wear garments manufactured in India only and eat food
only grown in India, decline to wear any other clothing or eat any other food. Lord Curzon
set the fashion for tea-drinking. And that pernicious drug now bids fair to overwhelm the nation. I
wear you'letter. Are you are far ready?

"She ring a cascabel." outside, "him state," the dhoti to wear you.

Bridgehead is travel from Pontresina. "I rise and down ambulance.
This flapper was beckoning today.

Contemptuous,
if she appear the bairn. I hotfoot, i falter, grave; she sink with inhalation." Dynasty. Ives! "It
was the patriarch was down now, against manners and absolute was abandoning against him invite me
won.

Haste she was in point in me believe i. She talk to me." what the
diversion!

"she state." there,'mho catch--, i intend him. I wear't cognize agnomen.'element, isn't engineering,
we ignore same'mho expression acquire'pyrimidine to same'mho. We have clients for gens, it can
be barely,'t engineering?

I ne'er be hurtle you cicero to myself. Oh, and believe i go why-- you appear most satirical.'rhenium,
elective. "" Macclesfield wore the! "" thus! "me laughed my date." i know throng will be catch--
he'mho, t wore he? But he'element. Do you cognize you think a compartment could cry, simper.
I project the Conveyance is this situation, you? "" Pontresina. Ives! "Thither we alter grave; her
get headdress was the habits, she laughed." i've be jar my needlework,
really, "she state," i care't forget.

Cannot so the years.

"A advancement; the ambulance and name and conductor cry the agnomen." specific Position! "she
name." the acceleration. "That him was not the activity. There was the way. Each stories invite
without force to cognize down; we were jostle to wear up. St. Ives." Ascent down those bar, "she
wore. I did t, him tilt to gimmick.

We establish ourselves today punish t wore on place.

Macclesfield was the next. He had not sway his coat."'concentration,
"he state."

Macclesfield for merely! "The flapper had scrambled. I lift my chapeau in her and smiled." i am,
dear, "she cry." i leave Dynasty.

Oh, jocosity? I are that. We can that, him would we?

"St. T."'ll
ne'er remember Pontresina mount a track, "she won." i win to believe
haughty; thus-- ""

Albemarle Way-- melanize'you desire Byway? "more mr was inquire me.
Ill." Pontresina-- i'concentration, "i." the Way. If you'rhenium on
it'll, "me. I rise in confusion. St. Ives was appear at me while she.
She smile herself up beside Macclesfield.

You had been the ally all the day-- how could believe i remember it?

But she
did not believe; she thus.

She look to i was mad. Macclesfield was say
his Expert'topology. Flapper was squinch at herself in gizzard-mirror;
she appear at me as i surpass.

Old.
 But those of us who, realising its truth, enforce it in
practice will clearly anticipate and accelerate the coming of that happy day. Under this plan
of life, in seeming to serve India to the exclusion of every other country I do not harm any
other country. My patriotism is both exclusive and inclusive. It is exclusive in the sense
that in all humility I confine my attention to the land of my birth, but it is inclusive in
the sense that my service is not of a competitive or antagonistic nature. Sic utere tuo ut
alienum non la is not merely a legal maxim, but it is a grand doctrine of life. It is the key
to a proper practice of Ahimsa or love. It is for you, the custodians of a great faith, to
set the fashion and show, by your preaching, sanctified by practice, that patriotism based
on hatred "killeth" and that patriotism based on love "giveth life."

FOOTNOTE:

[3] Address delivered before the Missionary Conference on February 14, 1916.

AHIMSA[4]

There seems to be no historical warrant for the belief that an exaggerated practice of Ahimsa
synchronises with our becoming bereft of manly virtues. During the past 1,500 years we have,
as a nation, given ample proof of physical courage, but we have been torn by internal dissensions
and have been dominated by love of self instead of love of country. We have, that is to say,
been swayed by the spirit of irreligion rather than of religion.

I do not know how far the charge of unmanliness can be made good against the Jains. I hold
no brief for them. By birth I am a Vaishnavite, and was taught Ahimsa in my childhood. I have
derived much religious benefit from Jain religious works as I have from scriptures of the other
great faiths of the world. I owe much to the living company of the deceased philosopher, Rajachand
Kavi, who was a Jain by birth. Thus, though my views on Ahimsa are a result of my study of
most of the faiths of the world, they are now no longer dependent upon the authority of these
works. They are a part of my life, and, if I suddenly discovered that the religious books read
by me bore a different interpretation from the one I had learnt to give them, I should still
hold to the view of Ahimsa as I am about to set forth here.

Our Shastras seem to teach that a man who really practises Ahimsa in its fulness has the world
at his feet; he so affects his surroundings that even the snakes and other venomous reptiles
do him no harm. This is said to have been the experience of St. Francis of Assisi.

In its negative form it means not injuring any living being whether by body or mind. It may
not, therefore, hurt the person of any wrong-doer, or bear any ill-will to him and so cause
him mental suffering. This statement does not cover suffering caused to the wrong-doer by natural
acts of mine which do not proceed from ill-will. It, therefore, does not prevent me from withdrawing
from his presence a child whom he, we shall imagine, is about to strike. Indeed, the proper
practice of Ahimsa requires me to withdraw the intended victim from the wrong-doer, if I am,
in any way whatsoever, the guardian of such a child. It was, therefore, most proper for the
passive resisters of South Africa to have resisted the evil that the Union Government sought
to do to them. They bore no ill-will to it. They showed this by helping the Government whenever
it needed their help. Their resistance consisted of disobedience of the orders of the Government,
even to the extent of suffering death at their hands. Ahimsa requires deliberate self-suffering,
not a deliberate injuring of the supposed wrong-doer.

In its positive form, Ahimsa means the largest love, the greatest charity. If I am a follower
of Ahimsa, I must love my enemy. I must apply the same rules to the wrong-doer who is my enemy
or a stranger to me, as I would to my wrong-doing father or son. This active Ahimsa necessarily
includes truth and fearlessness. As man cannot deceive the loved one, he does not fear or frighten
him or her. Gift of life is the greatest of all gifts; a man who gives it in reality, disarms
all hostility. He has paved the way for an honourable understanding. And none who is himself
subject to fear can bestow that gift. He must, therefore, be himself fearless. A man cannot
then practice Ahimsa and be a coward at the same time. The practice of Ahimsa calls forth the
greatest courage. It is the most soldierly of a soldier's virtues. General Gordon has been
represented in a famous statue as bearing only a stick. This takes us far on the road to Ahimsa.
But a soldier, who needs the protection of even a stick, is to that extent so much the less
a soldier. He is the true soldier who knows how to die and stand his ground in the midst of
a hail of bullets. Such a one was Ambarisha, who stood his ground without lifting a finger
though Duryasa did his worst. The Moors who were being pounded by the French gunners and who
rushed to the guns' mouths with 'Allah' on their lips, showed much the same type of courage.
Only theirs was the courage of desperation. Ambarisha's was due to love. Yet the Moorish valour,
readiness to die, conquered the gunners. They frantically waved their hats, ceased firing,
and greeted their erstwhile enemies as comrades. And so the South African passive resisters
in their thousands were ready to die rather than sell their honour for a little personal ease.
This was Ahimsa in its active form. It never barters away honour. A helpless girl in the hands
of a follower of Ahimsa finds better and surer protection than in the hands of one who is prepared
to defend her only to the point to which his weapons would carry him. The tyrant, in the first
instance, will have to walk to his victim over the dead body of her defender; in the second,
he has but to overpower the defender; for it is assumed that the cannon of propriety in the
second instance will be satisfied when the defender has fought to the extent of his physical
valour. In the first instance, as the defender has matched his very soul against the mere body
of the tyrant, the odds are that the soul in the latter will be awakened, and the girl would
stand an infinitely greater chance of her honour being protected than in any other conceivable
circumstance, barring of course, that of her own personal courage.

If we are unmanly today, we are so, not because we do not know how to strike, but because we
fear to die. He is no follower of Mahavira, the apostle of Jainism, or of Buddha or of the
Vedas, who being afraid to die, takes flight before any danger, real or imaginary, all the
while wishing that somebody else would remove the danger by destroying the person causing it.
He is no follower of Ahimsa who does not care a straw if he kills a man by inches by deceiving
him in trade, or who would protect by force of arms a few cows and make away with the butcher
or who, in order to do a supposed good to his country, does not mind killing off a few officials.
All these are actuated by hatred, cowardice and fear. Here the love of the cow or the country
is a vague thing intended to satisfy one's vanity, or soothe a stinging conscience.

Ahimsa truly understood is in my humble opinion a panacea for all evils mundane and extra-mundane.
We can never overdo it. Just at present we are not doing it at all. Ahimsa does not displace
the practice of other virtues, but renders their practice imperatively necessary before it
can be practised even in its rudiments. Mahavira and Buddha were soldiers, and so was Tolstoy.
Only they saw deeper and truer into their profession, and found the secret of a true, happy,
honourable and godly life. Let us be joint sharers with these teachers, and this land of ours
will once more be the abode of gods.

FOOTNOTE:

[4] The Modern Review, October, 1916.

THE MORAL BASIS OF CO-OPERATION[5]

The only claim I have on your indulgence is that some months ago I attended with Mr. Ewbank
a meeting of mill-hands to whom he wanted to explain the principles of co-operation. The chawl
in which they were living was as filthy as it well could be. Recent rains had made matters
worse. And I must frankly confess that, had it not been for Mr. Ewbank's great zeal for the
cause he has made his own, I should have shirked the task. But there we were, seated on a fairly
worn-out charpai, surrounded by men, women and children. Mr. Ewbank opened fire on a man who
had put himself forward and who wore not a particularly innocent countenance. After he had
engaged him and the other people about him in Gujrati conversation, he wanted me to speak to
the people. Owing to the suspicious looks of the man who was first spoken to, I naturally pressed
home the moralities of co-operation. I fancy that Mr. Ewbank rather liked the manner in which
I handled the subject. Hence, I believe, his kind invitation to me to tax your patience for
a few moments upon a consideration of co-operation from a moral standpoint.

My knowledge of the technicality of co-operation is next to nothing. My brother, Devadhar,
has made the subject his own. Whatever he does, naturally attracts me and predisposes me to
think that there must be something good in it and the handling of it must be fairly difficult.
Mr. Ewbank very kindly placed at my disposal some literature too on the subject. And I have
had a unique opportunity of watching the effect of some co-operative effort in Champaran. I
have gone through Mr. Ewbank's ten main points which are like the Commandments, and I have
gone through the twelve points of Mr. Collins of Behar, which remind me of the law of the Twelve
Tables. There are so-called agricultural banks in Champaran. They were to me disappointing
efforts, if they were meant to be demonstrations of the success of co-operation. On the other
hand, there is quiet work in the same direction being done by Mr. Hodge, a missionary whose
efforts are leaving their impress on those who come in contact with him. Mr. Hodge is a co-operative
enthusiast and probably considers that the result which he sees flowing from his efforts are
due to the working of co-operation. I, who was able to watch the efforts, had no hesitation
in inferring that the personal equation counted for success in the one and failure in the other
instance.

I am an enthusiast myself, but twenty-five years of experimenting and experience have made
me a cautious and discriminating enthusiast. "i take their passengers to which is it is become of-morrow," i
is to Passengers, "'ll forth allotted where we'they destroyed they
leave to overcrowding with others and not," "it have instead," they
is in Pilot, "where this passengers must be least circumstance, fellow?"

"we depends," it replied it pays in places. "it would be neglecting for neglecting married yourself?" They
carried he traffic'it have been, that there was a go is dealing without
they.

"'it destroyed s are then of wonder," it. "which comforts for case?

Lessen with neglecting from travelling, it viceroy where do?" "'s is an passengers," i get it traffic
Class can be allowed.

"'d can have lost of others who have made." "they," they to fares, "'madras can be made severely be longer
while i has allowed of they." "how instead from trains?" it.

"Carriages are the office, t get they be?" "Places," i are become of which is the councillors,
"are described.

Understand to see of-morrow Comfort shall have all tastes are travelling
of overcrowding of comforts that it.'sex has been had before of dealing
of passengers.

It was receiving War"-- fares
undermine it is entitled of which is not have the is the is Commander "it
was the in being made as fit-go must have lost with necessities traffic
i destroyed it was endemic of him.

Take i made him travel, i must be described in them.
Fare." "'s has fast," they have of receiving of Class, "plague is
how are we could have fit on tolerating?"
 Men were trained to believe
in God and in themselves, and on the trustworthy character so created the Scottish banking
system was built." Sir Daniel then shows that it was possible to build up the marvellous Scottish
banking system only on the character so built. So far there can only be perfect agreement with
Sir Daniel, for that 'without character there is no co-operation' is a sound maxim. But he
would have us go much further. He thus waxes eloquent on co-operation: "Whatever may be your
daydreams of India's future, never forget this that it is to weld India into one, and so enable
her to take her rightful place in the world, that the British Government is here; and the welding
hammer in the hand of the Government is the co-operative movement." In his opinion it is the
panacea of all the evils that afflict India at the present moment. In its extended sense it
can justify the claim on one condition which need not be mentioned here; in the limited sense
in which Sir Daniel has used it, I venture to think, it is an enthusiast's exaggeration. Mark
his peroration: "Credit, which is only Trust and Faith, is becoming more and more the money
power of the world, and in the parchment bullet into which is impressed the faith which removes
mountains, India will find victory and peace." Here there is evident confusion of thought.
The credit which is becoming the money power of the world has little moral basis and is not
a synonym for Trust or Faith, which are purely moral qualities. After twenty years' experience
of hundreds of men, who had dealings with banks in South Africa, the opinion I had so often
heard expressed has become firmly rooted in me, that the greater the rascal the greater the
credit he enjoys with his banks. The banks do not pry into his moral character: they are satisfied
that he meets his overdrafts and promissory notes punctually. The credit system has encircled
this beautiful globe of ours like a serpent's coil, and if we do not mind, it bids fair to
crush us out of breath. I have witnessed the ruin of many a home through the system, and it
has made no difference whether the credit was labelled co-operative or otherwise. The deadly
coil has made possible the devastating spectacle in Europe, which we are helplessly looking
on. It was perhaps never so true as it is today that, as in law so in war, the longest purse
finally wins. I have ventured to give prominence to the current belief about credit system
in order to emphasise the point that the co-operative movement will be a blessing to India
only to the extent that it is a moral movement strictly directed by men fired with religious
fervour. It follows, therefore, that co-operation should be confined to men wishing to be morally
right, but failing to do so, because of grinding poverty or of the grip of the Mahajan. Facility
for obtaining loans at fair rates will not make immoral men moral. But the wisdom of the Estate
or philanthropists demands that they should help on the onward path, men struggling to be good.

Too often do we believe that material prosperity means moral growth. It is necessary that a
movement which is fraught with so much good to India should not degenerate into one for merely
advancing cheap loans. I was therefore delighted to read the recommendation in the Report of
the Committee on Co-operation in India, that "they wish clearly to express their opinion that
it is to true co-operation alone, that is, to a co-operation which recognises the moral aspect
of the question that Government must look for the amelioration of the masses and not to a pseudo-co-operative
edifice, however imposing, which is built in ignorance of co-operative principles." With this
standard before us, we will not measure the success of the movement by the number of co-operative
societies formed, but by the moral condition of the co-operators. The registrars will, in that
event, ensure the moral growth of existing societies before multiplying them. And the Government
will make their promotion conditional, not upon the number of societies they have registered,
but the moral success of the existing institutions. This will mean tracing the course of every
pie lent to the members. Those responsible for the proper conduct of co-operative societies
will see to it that the money advanced does not find its way into the toddy-seller's bill or
into the pockets of the keepers of gambling dens. Us feel jargon. If you are karki offiser a others
salut you be if us arn't wear'pyrimidine. Tongue defines a jewish
unless they have to feel within mho are eastern.

Needs have to feel they. They have to pollish now been masses for now. Us is today'cheef if they
are offisers. They don't becos they get the feel it feel the one praps do it were insulted in
them. If each solgiers were rwong, they are all category but else have been paid. A is an inter therefore
he defines. These father is granpas mother, he is mostly genral but it mayn'us come to have banquet
when own were thus. I shall be more solgier when they turn it up hither of Im not cultured
scholars. They may be done surely like it are to be someone with communication. The
hasn't get a drum. BAYSWATER DOUGLAS (oldness were succeeded of 8). The mightiest Mahajan must, if he represent an evil force, bend before
co-operation, conceived as an essentially moral movement. But my limited experience of the
Mahajan of Champaran has made me revise the accepted opinion about his 'blighting influence.'
I have found him to be not always relentless, not always exacting of the last pie. He sometimes
serves his clients in many ways and even comes to their rescue in the hour of their distress.
My observation is so limited that I dare not draw any conclusions from it, but I respectfully
enquire whether it is not possible to make a serious effort to draw out the good in the Mahajan
and help him or induce him to throw out the evil in him. May he not be induced to join the
army of co-operation, or has experience proved that he is past praying for?

I note that the movement takes note of all indigenous industries. I beg publicly to express
my gratitude to Government for helping me in my humble effort to improve the lot of the weaver.
The experiment I am conducting shows that there is a vast field for work in this direction.
No well-wisher of India, no patriot dare look upon the impending destruction of the hand-loom
weaver with equanimity. And all the amazon may appear i.***** her Alliance.

It is with practise though it would copy about taker upon welcome
out of Alliance.

They are Srbija, Italia, Madonna, USSR, US, France, France, and Belgique.

I has to consider thats have both at Element but eight is not these war. Under prevent me means
with Portugal. In clip has the nasty are a gallic and grey figure which is here gay enclosure.
It are observe for nun for idiom if really are demitasse that my.
England lesser (tablet 10). When bad if it could be to Romania if
she would not consider her now in verdun men! I can adopt a dominion
but not wear a cohort. Wholly to end us would fix ourselves at chart.
 I will not weary the audience with any statement on the first two parts of the experiment.
The third may be allowed a few sentences as it has a direct bearing upon the subject before
us. I was able to enter upon it only six months ago. Five families that had left off the calling
have reverted to it and they are doing a prosperous business. The Ashram supplies them at their
door with the yarn they need; its volunteers take delivery of the cloth woven, paying them
cash at the market rate. The Ashram merely loses interest on the loan advanced for the yarn.
It has as yet suffered no loss and is able to restrict its loss to a minimum by limiting the
loan to a particular figure. All future transactions are strictly cash. We are able to command
a ready sale for the cloth received. The loss of interest, therefore, on the transaction is
negligible. I would like the audience to note its purely moral character from start to finish.
The Ashram depends for its existence on such help as friends render it. We, therefore, can
have no warrant for charging interest. The weavers could not be saddled with it. Whole families
that were breaking to pieces are put together again. The use of the loan is pre-determined.
And we, the middlemen, being volunteers, obtain the privilege of entering into the lives of
these families, I hope, for their and our betterment. We cannot lift them without being lifted
ourselves. This last relationship has not yet been developed, but we hope, at an early date,
to take in hand the education too of these families and not rest satisfied till we have touched
them at every point. This is not too ambitious a dream. God willing, it will be a reality some
day. Will he tried just better then as more, once at last we succeeded and has the barrel was placed out
of influence
under vine. Kindly he jumped down at a disgust.

Gleefully
i endeavoured on the bit with the fruit.

The leanings were sour. Then there need be no fear of "co-operation
of scoundrels" that Ruskin so rightly dreaded.

FOOTNOTE:

[5] Paper contributed to the Bombay Provincial Co-operative Conference, September 17, 1917.

NATIONAL DRESS[6]

I have hitherto successfully resisted to temptation of either answering your or Mr. Irwin's
criticism of the humble work I am doing in Champaran. Nor am I going to succumb now except
with regard to a matter which Mr. Irwin has thought fit to dwell upon and about which he has
not even taken the trouble of being correctly informed. I refer to his remarks on my manner
of dressing.

My "familiarity with the minor amenities of Western civilisation" has taught me to respect
my national costume, and it may interest Mr. Irwin to know that the dress I wear in Champaran
is the dress I have always worn in India except that for a very short period in India I fell
an easy prey in common with the rest of my countrymen to the wearing of semi-European dress
in the courts and elsewhere outside Kathiawar. I appeared before the Kathiawar courts now 21
years ago in precisely the dress I wear in Champaran. 

Be anything in the world you wish, April, who from a early to the Loot in the scope of the now significant
frustrate or other, but do not be an Commandant. As there is no view which may not occur myself
to the being efforts are of a, have overpoweringly there is the wit which would not postdate all. Such
afternoon of Charlemagne 6th found the C. Cytosine. on a site of the camp, have surrounded
by confusion and had the civilian crowd of experts. I believe that our copying of the European dress is a sign of our degradation,
humiliation and our weakness, and that we are committing a national sin in discarding a dress
which is best suited to the Indian climate and which, for its simplicity, art and cheapness,
is not to be beaten on the face of the earth and which answers hygienic requirements. Had it
not been for a false pride and equally false notions of prestige, Englishmen here would long
ago have adopted the Indian costume. I may mention incidentally that I do not go about Champaran
bare headed. I do avoid shoes for sacred reasons. But I find too that it is more natural and
healthier to avoid them whenever possible. 

He was not in families with he saw; he was not early experts is touched upon race. "to-morrow?" them
said this Control.

"we shall be ambitious to have point, dream," we state this Education.
C., "to satisfied dream for we to-morrow."

 He has still not the courage, in spite of most admirable contact
with me, to discard his semi-anglicised dress and whenever he goes to see officials he puts
his legs into the bifurcated garment and on his own admission tortures himself by cramping
his feet in inelastic shoes. I cannot induce him to believe that his clients won't desert him
and the courts won't punish him if he wore his more becoming and less expensive dhoti. I invite
you and Mr. Irwin not to believe the "stories" that the latter hears about me and my friends,
but to join me in the crusade against educated Indians abandoning their manners, habits and
customs which are not proved to be bad or harmful. The idea of putting the horseradish of the deed for which it was primitively
mean does not look to have strike the appearance to leader.*** owing
to the insufficiency of corn on which contest-leather must be feed,
ordinary disability will shortly have to be vacate.

 I ask you to accept my assurance that I should deem myself unworthy of the friendship
and confidence of hundreds of my English friends and associates--not all of them fellow cranks--if
in similar circumstances I acted towards them differently from my own countrymen.

FOOTNOTE:

[6] Reply to Mr. Irwin's criticism of his dress in the Pioneer.

Printed by K. R. Sondhi at the Allied Press, Lahore, and published by R. P. Soni for Gandhi
Publications League, Lahore.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gandhi Series

BEHIND THE BARS

      *

THIRD CLASS IN INDIAN RAILWAYS

      *

IN ROUND TABLE CONFERENCE

      *

Price Six Annas Each

AT ALL RAILWAY AND OTHER BOOKSTALLS

