Then there was an elderly Miss Minnows, who was horribly afraid of catching cold, but in whose
character I could perceive no other very salient point; and a fair-haired young gentleman,
whose name I did not distinctly catch, and who looked as if he ought to have been at school,
where, indeed, I think he would have been much happier; and sundry regular stereotyped London
men and women, well bred and well dressed, and cool and composed, and altogether thoroughly
respectable and stupid; and a famous author, who drank a great deal of wine, and never opened
his lips to speak; and I think that was all--no, by-the-bye, there was Captain Lovell, who
came very late, and we went soberly into Richmond Park, and dined under a tree.

I do not think I quite like a picnic. It is all very well, like most other arrangements, if
everything goes right; but I sat between Sir Guy Scapegrace and the light-haired young gentleman,
and although I could hear lots of fun going on at the other end of the tablecloth, where Cousin
John and Mary Molasses and Captain Lovell had got together, I was too far off to partake of
it, and my vis-à-vis, Lady Scapegrace, scowled at me so from under her black eyebrows, though
I believe utterly unconsciously, that she made me feel quite nervous. Then it was not reassuring
to have that odious Sir Guy pressing me to eat everything, and looking right under my bonnet,
and asking me to drink champagne at least four times; and if I turned to my other neighbour,
and ventured to address him on the most commonplace subject, he blushed so painfully that I
began to think he was quite as much afraid of me as I was of Sir Guy. Altogether I was rather
glad when the things were cleared away and put back into the hampers, and the gentlemen asked
leave to light their cigars, and we broke up our circle, and lounged about and enjoyed ourselves
in the shade of those fine trees on that dry velvet sward. We were rather put to it though
for amusement, and had to propose games of forfeits and other pastimes; and Cousin John, quite
unwittingly, got me into a sad scrape by boasting about his horses. "Not such another pair
out of London to-day," expatiated John to the company in general. "We came down in seven minutes
under the hour from my aunt's door in Lowndes Street; didn't we, Kate? And never turned a hair;
did we, Kate? Why, they went so smooth Kate couldn't keep her hands off the reins; could you,
Kate? And there are few better judges, let me tell you, than Miss Coventry." I saw the ladies
look at me, and then at each other; and I knew by that indescribable glance, which none but
a woman can thoroughly appreciate, how from that moment they had vowed, one and all, to hate
me eternally in their hearts. The offence had been committed; the sentence had gone forth.
I had been tried for being fast, and found guilty nem. com., from sneering Lady Scapegrace
to unmeaning Miss Minnows; each stared at me for about two seconds, and so made up her mind.
I cannot think why it is that this should be so great a crime in the eyes of my own sex. Next
to being attractive to the other half of creation--and that I can easily understand is totally
unpardonable--there is nothing makes a woman so angry with her sister as high spirits, natural
courage, and above all a love for a horse. It is very hard upon us that we should be debarred
from all out-of-door exercises and amusements by the prejudices of those very individuals who
ought to back us up in our efforts to enlarge the circle of our amusements. I cannot see why
it follows that because I do not mind "weather," I must, therefore, be utterly regardless of
morality; nor how my knack of breaking in a horse should imply an infraction of all the commandments.
Are men the only bipeds that can be at the same time brave and virtuous? Must pluck and piety
be for ever divorced in the female character? Shall I never be able to keep the straight path
in life because I can turn an awkward corner with four horses at a trot? Female voices answer
volubly in the negative, and I give in.

But odious Sir Guy thinks none the worse of me for my coaching predilections. "Fond of driving,
Miss Coventry?" says he, leering at me from over his great choking neckcloth. "Seen my team--three
greys and a piebald? If you like going fast I can accommodate you. Proud to take you back on
my drag. What? Go on the box. Drive, if you like. Hey!"

I confess for one instant, much as I hated the old reprobate, I should have liked to go, if
it was only to make all the women so angry; but just then I caught Captain Lovell's eye fixed
upon me with a strange, earnest expression, and all at once I felt that nothing should induce
me to trust myself with Sir Guy. I couldn't help blushing though as I declined, more particularly
when my would-be charioteer swore he considered it "an engagement, hey?--only put off to another
time--get the coach new painted--begad, Miss Coventry's favourite colour!" And the old monster
grinned in my face till I could have boxed his ears.

The author by this time was fast asleep, with a handkerchief over his face, Miss Minnows searching
in vain for a fabulous pair of clogs, as she imagined the dew must be falling--it was about
six p.m., and hot June weather. Sir Guy was off to the hampers in search of "brandy and soda,"
and the rest of the party lounging about in twos and threes, when Captain Lovell proposed we
should stroll down to the river and have a row in the cool of the evening. Mary Molasses voted
it "charming;" Lady Scapegrace was willing to go anywhere away from Sir Guy; John, of course,
all alive for a lark; and though Mrs. Molasses preferred remaining on dry land, she had no
objection to trusting her girls with us. So we mustered a strong party for embarkation on Father
Thames. Our two cavaliers ran forward to get the boat ready, Captain Lovell bounding over the
fences and stiles almost as actively as Brilliant could have done; and John, who is no mean
proficient at such exercises, following him; whilst we ladies paced along soberly in the rear.

"Can you row, Miss Coventry?" asked Lady Scapegrace, who seemed to have taken rather a fancy
to me, probably out of contradiction to the other women. "I can. I rowed four miles once on
the Lake of Geneva," she added in her deep, melancholy voice, "and we were caught in one of
those squalls and nearly lost. If it hadn't been for poor Alphonse, not one of us could have
escaped. I wonder if drowning's a painful death, Miss Coventry; the water always looks so inviting."

"Goodness, Lady Scapegrace!" exclaimed I; "don't take this opportunity of finding out. None
of us can swim but John; and if he saves anybody, he's solemnly engaged to save me."

"I quite agree with you, Lady Scapegrace," said the romantic Miss Molasses. "It looks so peaceful,
and gives one such an idea of repose. I for one have not the slightest fear of death, or indeed
of any mere bodily changes----Gracious goodness! the bull! the bull!"

What a rout it was! The courageous young lady who thus gave us the first intimation of danger
leading the flight with a speed and activity of which I should have thought her languid frame
totally incapable; Lady Scapegrace making use of her long legs with an utter forgetfulness
of her usually grave and tragic demeanour; and the rest of the party seeking safety helter-skelter.

It was indeed a situation of some peril. Our course to the riverside had led us through a long
narrow strip of meadow-land, bounded by high impervious thorn fences, such as I knew would
be bullfinches in the winter, and which now, in all the luxuriance of summer foliage, presented
a mass of thorns and fragrance that no mortal could expect to get through. At either end of
the field was a high hog-backed stile, such as ladies usually make considerable difficulties
about surmounting, but which are by no means so impossible of transit when an infuriated bull
is bringing up the rear. We were already a quarter of the way across the field, when Miss Mary's
exclamation made us aware of our enemy, who had been quietly cropping the grass in a corner
behind us, but who now, roused by our gaudy dresses and the piercing screams of some of our
party, was lashing himself into a rage, and looking sufficiently mischievous to be a very unpleasant
acquaintance. It was impossible to turn round and make for the stile we had just left, as the
bull now occupied a position exactly between us and that place of safety; it was hopeless,
particularly in our light muslin gowns, to attempt the hedge on either side; there was nothing
for it but a fair run to the other end of the meadow, about a quarter of a mile, and sauve
qui peut was now the order of the day.

I will not allow that I am deficient in courage; on the contrary, as Cousin John says, "I am
rather proud of my pluck;" but there is nothing so contagious as a panic, and I too ran for
my very life. The bull came galloping after us, tossing his head and rolling his great body
about as if he quite enjoyed the fun; nor do I know how the adventure would have ended, for
he must have overtaken some of us before we could reach our haven, had not Lady Scapegrace
caught her foot in the long grass, and, falling prostrate, buried her face in her hands, and
giving herself up, as she afterwards assured me, to the prospect of a horrible and violent
death. I could not leave her in such a situation. By an impulse for which I cannot account
I stopped short, turned round, got between the pursuer and his fallen foe, and with a beating
heart and my knees knocking together, faced the great mischievous brute with no other weapon,
offensive or defensive, than a laced pocket handkerchief. I believe he was a well-meaning bull
after all; for instead of crashing in upon me, as I half expected he would, and immolating
me on the spot, he too stopped short, stared, bellowed, and began sniffing the grass, and pawing
up the turf, and whisking his tail about, just as Brilliant does when he is going to lie down.
I don't think he had ever seen a young lady, certainly not a French bonnet before, and he didn't
seem to know what to make of the combination; so there we stood, he and I staring each other
out of countenance, but without proceeding to any further extremities. I know I have plenty
of courage, for after the first minute I wasn't the least bit afraid; I felt just as I do when
I ride at a large fence--as I get nearer and nearer I feel something rising and rising within
me that enables me to face anything; and so when I had confronted the bull for a little time
I felt inclined to carry the war into the enemy's country, and advance upon him. But of course
all this is very indelicate and unfeminine; and it would have been far more virtuous and lady-like
to have run shrieking away like Miss Molasses, or laid down and given in at once like poor
Lady Scapegrace, who was quite resigned to being tossed and trampled upon, and only gave vent
every now and then to a stifled moan.

Well, at last I did advance a few steps, and the bull gave ground in the same proportion. I
began to think I should beat him after all, when to my great relief, I must allow, I heard
a voice behind me exclaim, "By Jove, what a plucky girl!" and I thought I heard something muttered
that sounded very like "darling," but of course that couldn't be meant for me; and Captain
Lovell, hot, handsome, and breathless, made his appearance, and soon drove our enemy into the
farthest corner of the field. As soon as the coast was clear we raised poor Lady Scapegrace,
who kissed me with tears in her eyes as she thanked me for what she called "saving her life."
I had no idea the woman had so much feeling. Captain Lovell gave each of us an arm as we walked
on to join our party, and he explained how the screams of Miss Molasses had reached him even
at the riverside, and how he had turned and hastened back immediately, "Fortunately in time
to be of some use. But I never saw a finer thing done, Miss Coventry; if I live to a hundred
I shall never forget it;" and he looked as if he would have added, "or you either."

Many were the exclamations, and much the conversation created by our adventure. The ladies
who had run away so gallantly were of course too much agitated for the proposed boating excursion;
so after sundry restoratives at the hotel we ordered the carriages to return to town. Cousin
John gave "Frank" (as he calls him) a place in the back seat of his phaeton, and he leaned
over and talked to me the whole way home. What a pleasant drive it was in the moonlight, and
how happy I felt! I was really sorry when we got back to London. Frank seemed quite anxious
to make Aunt Deborah's acquaintance; and I thought I shouldn't wonder if he was to call in
Lowndes Street very soon.

CHAPTER V.

When Aunt Deborah is laid up with one of her colds she always has a wonderful accession of
"propriety" accompanying the disorder; and that which would appear to her at the worst a harmless
escapade when in her usual health and spirits becomes a crime of the blackest dye when seen
through the medium of barley-broth and water-gruel--these being Aunt Deborah's infallible remedies
for a catarrh. Now, the cold in question had lasted its victim over the Ascot meeting, over
our picnic to Richmond, and bade fair to give her employment during the greater part of the
summer, so obstinate was the enemy when he had once possessed himself of the citadel; and under
these circumstances I confess it appeared to me quite hopeless to ask her permission to accompany
Cousin John on a long-promised expedition to Hampton Races. I did not dare make the request
myself; and I own I had great misgivings, even when I overheard from my boudoir the all-powerful
John preferring his petition, which he did with a sort of abrupt good humour peculiarly his own.

"Going to take Kate out for another lark, aunt, if you have no objection," says John, plumping
down into an armchair, and forthwith proceeding to entangle Aunt Deborah's knitting into the
most hopeless confusion. "Only some quiet races near town; all amongst ourselves, you know--gentlemen
riders, and that sort of thing."

Aunt Deborah, who is a good deal behindhand in all matters connected with the turf, and who
has set her face into a determined refusal when she hears the word "racing," rather relaxes
at the mention of "gentlemen riders," and replies gravely, "John, I want to talk to you about
Kate. The girl's wild after horses and hounds and all such unfeminine pursuits. I wonder you
like to see it yourself, my dear. Now, don't you think it would be far better to encourage
her in domestic tastes and amusements? I give you my word, she hasn't done a bit of worsted-work
for a fortnight."

John's face must have been good at this piece of intelligence; if there is one thing he hates
more than another it is "cross-stitch." But he replied with exemplary gravity that "Cousin
Kate never was strong, you know, aunt, and she is ordered to be a good deal in the open air,
with plenty of horse exercise; and this is delightful weather for riding."

"Well, John," says Aunt Deborah, "of course, if you don't mind it, I needn't; you'll be the
sufferer, my dear, not I" (I wonder what she meant by that?); "and I must let her go if you
choose to take her, John. How like your father you're growing, my handsome boy!" and Aunt Deborah
kissed Cousin John on the forehead, with tears in her eyes; and they called to me to get ready,
and the horses came round, and in less than ten minutes we were up and away.

It was very gratifying to overhear the complimentary remarks made upon the general appearance
of White Stockings, whom I had ridden down to save Brilliant, and who, despite his ugliness,
is a very hunting-looking horse.

"Looks a game 'un, don't he, squire?" remarked a jolly-looking Surrey farmer in top-boots to
a dilapidated friend in a white neckcloth. "Shouldn't wonder if he couldn't kick the dirt in
some of their faces, with that tight lass to keep his head straight." The friend was a melancholy
man, and nodded his silent affirmative with a sigh. I think, early as it was, they had both
been drinking.

"Look at that chestnut horse!" exclaimed a good-looking boy of some twenty summers, who had
coached his own drag down, like a second Phaethon, only as yet with better luck, and was now
smoking a huge cigar on its roof. "Isn't he the image of old Paleface? Who's the woman, eh?
Does nobody know her? I'll ask her to come and sit up here. She looks like a lady, too," he
added, checking himself. "Never mind, here goes!" And he was jumping off the coach, to tender
me, I presume, his polite invitation in person, when his arm was caught by the man next him,
who was no other than John's friend, Captain Lovell.

"Charley, stop!" exclaimed Frank, flushing all over his handsome face and temples. "I know
her, I tell you. Have a care; it's Miss Coventry." And in another instant he had bounded to
the earth, accosted my chaperon with a hearty "Jack, how goes it?" and was deep in conversation
with my humble self, with his hand on my horse's neck--Frank always wears such good gloves--and
his pleasant countenance beaming with delight at our chance interview. I liked the races better
after this, and should have spent a happier day, perhaps, without the society of Mrs. Lumley,
who appeared likewise on horseback, quite unexpectedly, and was riding the most beautiful brown
mare I ever saw in my life. I quite wished I had brought down Brilliant, if only to have met
her on more equal terms. As we were the only two ladies on horseback, of course we were obliged
to fraternize (if the weaker sex may use such an expression), as, indeed, we must have done
had we been the bitterest foes on earth, instead of merely hating each other with common civility.
Mrs. Lumley seemed on particularly good terms with Frank Lovell--I do not know that I liked
her any the better for that--and expressed her sentiments and opinions to the world in general
with a vivacity and freedom peculiarly her own.

"I am out on 'the sly,' you know," she observed with an arch smile. "I have a good, quiet aunt
who lives down at Richmond, and I do penance there for a time, whenever I have been more than
usually wicked; but to-day I could not resist the fine weather and the crowd and the fun, and
above all the bad company, which amuses me more than all the rest put together, though I do
not include you, Miss Coventry, nor yet Mr. Jones, but I am afraid I must Captain Lovell. Come,
let's ride amongst the carriages and see the ninnies."

So Mrs. Lumley and I plunged into the crowd, leaving Frank to return to his drag and his betting-book,
and Cousin John somewhat discontentedly to bring up the rear.

"After all, I don't see much harm in Hampton," said my lively guide as we threaded our way
between the carriages, "though, to be sure, there are some very queer-looking people on the
course. I could tell you strange stories of most of them, Miss Coventry, only you wouldn't
believe me. Do you see that old, plainish woman, with such black hair and eyebrows--something
like Lady Scapegrace, only not so handsome as my favourite enemy? Would you believe it, she
might marry three coronets at this moment if she chose, and she won't have any one of them.
She is not good-looking, you can see; she can scarcely write her own name. She has no conversation,
I happen to know, for I met her once at dinner, and she cannot by any chance put an 'H' into
its right place. Yet men see something in her that is totally inexplicable to us, and she seems
to have a mysterious influence over all ages and all sorts. One of these infatuated noblemen
is decrepit and twaddling; the other a stern, reserved man that up to forty years of age was
supposed to be the very impersonation of common sense; and the third, young, clever, and handsome,
a man that might marry half the nicest women in England if he liked. And why, do you think,
she won't pick and choose from such a trio? Why, forsooth, because she has set her stupid heart
on a drunken stockbroker, who won't have a word to say to her, and would have been here to-day,
I have no doubt, if he hadn't been afraid of meeting her. Well, there's a stranger story than
that about the girl with long fair hair in the next carriage. You can see her now, in a pink
bonnet, drinking sherry and soda water. It is supposed that she is old Goldfinch's daughter,
and that he won't give her a farthing; but I know somebody who knows his lawyer, and that girl
will have half a million, if she don't drink herself to death before old Goldfinch takes his
departure from this wicked world. She is beautiful and clever and accomplished, and all the
young men are in love with her; but she cannot keep sober, and in three years' time she will
have lost her youth and her health and her faculties, and in all probability will finish in
a madhouse. There's Frank Lovell making fierce love to her now."

And as Mrs. Lumley concluded with this amiable remark, I looked round for Cousin John, and
rode away from her in disgust at her flippancy, and sick at heart to think of such a man as
Captain Lovell wasting his smiles on such a creature. To be sure, he only said three words
to her, for when I looked round again at the carriage he was gone. There is something very
amusing to me in the bustle of a racecourse; and yet, after talking to Mrs. Lumley, the gloss
seemed to be only on the surface. She had told me enough of the company to make me fancy there
must be some strange history belonging to each. Like the man that saw through the roofs of
the houses in Madrid, thanks to the agency of his familiar, I thought that my demon on a side-saddle
had taught me to see into the very hearts and secrets of the motley assemblage.

There was a handsome girl, with beautiful teeth and neatly-braided hair and such a brilliant
smile, attracting a crowd round her as she sang piquant songs in a sweet, deep-toned voice
that ought to have made her fortune on the stage if it had been properly cultivated--sang them,
too, with a look and manner that I have seen seldom rivalled by the cleverest actresses; and
I thought what a face and form were wasted here to make profit for one knave and sport for
some fifty fools. As she accompanied herself on the harp, and touched its strings with a grace
and expression which made amends for a certain want of tuition, I could not help fancying her
in a drawing-room, surrounded by admirers, making many a heart ache with her arch smile and
winning ways. Without being positively beautiful, she had the knack so few women possess of
looking charming in every attitude and with every expression of countenance; and although her
songs were of a somewhat florid school, yet I could not help thinking that, with those natural
gifts and a plaintive old ballad, English or Scotch, such as "Annie Laurie" or "The Nut-brown
Maid" to bring them out, in a pretty drawing-room, with the assistance of a good dressmaker--dear!
she might marry a duke if she liked.

And yet all this belonged to a dark, close-shaved ruffian, with silver rings and a yellow handkerchief,
who scowled and prowled about her, and looked as if he was likely enough to beat her when they
got home. But she hands up an ivory bowl for contributions amongst the young dandies on the
roof of a neighbouring coach, who have been listening open-mouthed to the siren, and shillings
and half-crowns, and a bit of gold from the one last out of the Bench, pour into it; and she
moves off, to make way for three French glee-maidens with a monkey and a tambourine, and the
swells return to their cigars and their betting, and we are all attention for the next event
on the card, because it is a gentlemen-riders' race; and the performances will consequently
be as different as possible from what we have just seen.

"We'll secure a good place for this, Kate," says Cousin John, edging his horse in as near the
judges' stand as he can get. "Frank Lovell has a mare to run, and I have backed her for a sovereign."

"Dear, I hope she'll win!" is my ardent rejoinder.

"Thank you, Kate," says kind Cousin John, who concludes I take an unusual interest in his speculations;
and forthwith we proceed to criticize the three animals brought to the post, and to agree that
Captain Lovell's Parachute is far the best-looking of the lot; or, as Sir Guy Scapegrace says
to the well-pleased owner, "If make and shape go for anything, Frank, she ought to beat them,
as far as they can see."

Sir Guy is chaperoning a strange-looking party of men and women, who have been very noisy since
luncheon-time. He is attired in a close-shaved hat (which he had the effrontery to take off
to me, but I looked the other way), a white coat, and a red neckcloth, the usual flower in
his mouth being replaced for the occasion by a large cigar. Captain Lovell hopes "I admire
his mare--she has a look of Brilliant from here, Miss Coventry. 'Baby Larkins' of the Lancers
is to ride; and The Baby will do her justice if any one can. He's far the best of the young
ones now."

"Do you mean his name is 'Baby'?" said I, much amused, "or that you call him so because he
is such a child? He looks as if he ought to be with mamma still." "We always call him 'Baby'
in the Lancers," explained Frank, "because he joined us so very young. He is nineteen, though
you would guess him about twelve; but he's got the brains of a man of sixty and the nerves
of a giant. Ah! Parachute, you may kick, old girl, but you won't get rid of that child!"

And sure enough "The Baby" sat like a rock, with a grim smile, and preserving throughout a
silence and sang froid which nothing seemed able to overcome. Two more seedy-looking animals
made up the entry. The lamer one of the two was ridden by a stout major with a redundancy of
moustaches, the other by a lanky cornet of Heavy Dragoons, who seemed not to know where on
earth to dispose of his arms and legs, besides finding his cap somewhat in his way, and being
much embarrassed with his whip. They gallop up and down before starting, till I wonder how
any galloping can be left for the race; and after a futile attempt or two they get away, The
Baby making strong running, the stout Major waiting closely upon his infantine antagonist,
while the long cornet, looming like a windmill in the distance, brings up the rear.

"Parachute still making running," says John, standing erect in his stirrups, his honest face
beaming with excitement. "Woa, horse!--Stand still, White-Stockings--now they reach the turn,
and The Baby takes a pull--Gad, old Ganymede's coming up. Well done, Major--no, the old one's
flogging. Parachute wins. Now, Baby!--now Major--the horse!--the mare!--Best race I ever saw
in my life--a dead heat--Ha! ha! ha!" The latter explosion of mirth is due to the procrastinated
arrival of the long cornet, who flogs and works as religiously home as if he had a hundred
more behind him, and who reaches the weighing enclosure in time to ascertain with his own eyes
that Ganymede has won, the lame plater who rejoices in that classical appellation having struggled
home first by a head, "notwithstanding," as the sporting papers afterwards expressed themselves,
"the judicious riding and beautiful finish of that promising young jockey, Mr. B. Larkins."
The Baby himself, however, is unmoved as usual, nodding to Parachute's disappointed owner without
moving a muscle of his countenance. He merely remarks, "Short of work, Frank. Told you so afore
I got up," and putting on a tiny white overcoat like a plaything, disappears, and is seen no more.

What a confusion there is in getting away! Sir Guy Scapegrace has a yearly bet with young Phaethon,
who wanted to invite me on his box, as to which shall get first to Kensington on their way
back to town. You would suppose Sir Guy was very happy at home by his anxiety to be off. The
two drags are soon bumping and rolling and rattling along the sward. The narrow lane through
which they must make their way is completely blocked up with spring-vans, and tax-carts, and
open carriages, and shut carriages, and broughams, and landaus, and every description of vehicle
that ever came out of Long Acre; whilst more four-horse coaches, with fast teams and still
faster loads, are thundering in the rear. Slang reigns supreme; and John Gilpin's friend, who
had a "ready wit," would here meet with his match. Nor are jest and repartee (what John calls
"chaff") the only missiles bandied about. Toys, knocked off "the sticks" for the purpose, darken
the air as they fly from one vehicle to another, and the broadside from a well-supplied coach
is like that of a seventy-four. Fun and good-humour abound, but confusion gets worse confounded.
Young Phaethon's wheel is locked with a market-gardener's, who is accompanied by two sisters-in-law
and the suitors of those nowise disconcerted damsels, all more or less intoxicated. Thriftless
has his near leader in the back-seat of a pony-carriage, and Sir Guy's off-wheeler is over
the pole. John and I agree to make a detour, have a pleasant ride in the country, never mind
about dinner, and so get back to London by moonlight. As we reach a quiet, sequestered lane,
and inhale the pleasant fragrance of the hawthorn--always sweetest towards nightfall--we hear
a horse's tramp behind us, and are joined by Frank Lovell, who explains with unnecessary distinctness
that "he always makes a practice of riding back from Hampton to avoid the crowd, and always
comes that way." If so, he must be in the habit of taking a considerable detour. But he joins
our party, and we ride home together.

How beautifully the moon shone upon the river as we crossed Kew Bridge that calm, silent, summer
night! How it flickered through their branches and silvered over the old trees, and what a
peaceful, lovely landscape it was! I thought Frank's low, sweet voice quite in keeping with
the time and the scene. As we rode together, John lagging a good deal behind (that bay horse
of John's never could walk with White Stockings), I could not help thinking how much I had
misunderstood Captain Lovell's character. What a deal of feeling--almost of romance--there
was under that conventional exterior which he wore before the world! I liked him so much more
now I came to know him better. I was quite sorry when we had to wish him "good-night" and John
and I rode thoughtfully home through the quiet streets. I thought my cousin's manner was altered
too, though I scarce knew how. His farewell sounded more constrained, more polite than usual,
when he left me at Aunt Deborah's door. And whilst I was undressing I reflected on all the
proceedings of the day, and tried to remember what I had done that could possibly have displeased
good-natured John. The more I went over it, backwards and forwards, the less could I make of
it. "Can it be possible," I thought at last; "can it be possible that Cousin John----" And
here I popped out my candle and jumped into bed.

CHAPTER VI.

I really had not courage to take my usual canter the morning after Hampton Races. I did not
feel as if I could face the umbrella and the cigar at the rails in "the Ride," and yet I rang
the bell once for my maid to help me on with my habit, and had my hand on it more than once
to order my horse; but I thought better of it. Poor Aunt Deborah's cold was still bad, though
she was downstairs; so I determined to take care of her, in common gratitude, and give her
the advantage of my agreeable society. I am very fond of Aunt Deborah in my own way, and I
know there is nothing she likes so much as a "quiet morning with Kate."

The hours passed off rather slowly till luncheon-time. I did forty-two stitches of worsted-work--I
never do more than fifty at a time, unless it's "grounding"--and I got off Hannah More because
Aunt Deborah was too hoarse to read to me, and I really cannot read that excellent work to
her without laughing; but I thought luncheon never would be ready, and when it did come I couldn't
eat any. However, I went upstairs afterwards, and smoothed my hair and set my collar straight,
and was glad to hear Aunt Deborah give her usual order that she was "at home" with her usual
solemnity. I had not been ten minutes in the drawing-room before a knock at the door brought
my heart into my mouth, and our tragic footman announced "Captain Lovell" in his most tragic
voice. In marched Frank, who had never set eyes on my aunt in his life, and shook hands with
me, and made her a very low bow, with a degree of effrontery that nothing but a man could ever
have been capable of assuming. Aunt Deborah drew herself up--and she really is very formidable
when she gets on her high horse--and looked first at me, and then at Frank, and then at me
again; and I blushed like a fool, and hesitated, and introduced "Captain Lovell" to "My aunt,
Miss Horsingham!" and I didn't the least know what to do next, and had a great mind to make
a bolt for it and run upstairs. But our visitor seemed to have no misgivings whatever, and
smoothed his hat and talked about the weather as if he had known us all from childhood. I have
often remarked that if you only deprive a man of the free use of his hands there is no difficulty
which he is unable to face. Give him something to handle and keep fidgeting at, and he seems
immediately to be in his element, never mind what it is--a paper-knife and a book to open,
or a flower to pull in pieces, or a pair of scissors and a bit of thread to snip, or even the
end of a stick to suck--and he draws inspiration, and what is more to the purpose, conversation,
from any and all of these sources.

But let him have his hands entirely to himself, give him nothing to "lay hold of," and he is
completely dumbfoundered on the spot. Here was Frank brushing and smoothing away at his hat
till it shone like black satin, and facing my aunt with a gallantry and steadiness beyond all
praise; but I believe if I could have snatched it away from him and hid it under the sofa,
he would have been routed at once, and must have fled in utter bewilderment and dismay. After
my aunt had replied courteously enough to a few commonplace observations, she gave one of her
ominous coughs, and I trembled for the result.

"Captain Beville," said my aunt. "I think I once knew a family of your name in Hampshire--the
New Forest, if I remember rightly."

"Excuse me," said Frank, nowise disconcerted, and with a sly glance at me, "my name is Lovell."

"Oh," replied my aunt, with a considerable assumption of stateliness, "then--ahem!--Captain
Greville, I don't think I have ever had the pleasure of meeting you before."

And my aunt looked as if she didn't care whether she ever met him again. This would have been
a "poser" to most people; but Frank applied himself diligently to his hat, and opened the trenches
in his own way.

"The fact is, Miss Horsingham," said he, "that I have taken advantage of my intimacy with your
nephew to call upon you without a previous introduction, in hopes of ascertaining what has
become of an old brother officer of mine, a namesake of yours, and consequently, I should conclude,
a relative. There is, I believe, only one family in England of your name. Excuse me, Miss Horsingham,
for so personal a remark, but I am convinced he must have been a near connection from a peculiarity
which every one who knows anything about our old English families is aware belongs to yours:
my poor friend Charlie had a beautiful 'hand.' You, madame, I perceive, own the same advantage;
therefore I am convinced you must be a near connection of my old comrade. You may think me
impertinent, but there is no mistaking 'the Horsingham hand.'"

Aunt Deborah gave in at once.

"I cannot call to mind at this moment any relative of mine who is likely to have served with
you" (nor was this to be wondered at, the warrior aux blanches mains being a fabulous creation
of wicked Frank); "but I have no doubt, Captain Lovell, that you are correct. I have great
pleasure in making your acquaintance, particularly as you seem well acquainted with our belongings.
Do you stay any length of time in town?"

"I seldom remain till the end of the season; but this year I think I shall. By the way, Miss
Horsingham, I saw a curious old picture the other day in the West of England, purporting to
be a portrait of the celebrated 'Ysonde of Brittany, with the White Hand,' in which I traced
a strong resemblance to some of the Horsinghams, with whom I am acquainted. Yours is, I believe,
an old Norman family; and as I am a bit of an antiquary" (O Frank, Frank!), "I consulted my
friend Sir J. Burke on the subject, who assures me that the 'Le Montants'--Godfrey le Montant,
if you remember, distinguished himself highly in the second crusade--that the Le Montants claimed
direct descent from the old Dukes of Brittany, and consequently from the very lady of whom
we are speaking. Roger le Montant came over with the Conqueror, and although strangely omitted
from the Roll of Battle Abbey, doubtless received large grants of land in Hampshire from William;
and two generations later we can trace his descendant, Hugo, in the same locality, under the
Anglicized name of Horsengem, now corrupted to Horsingham, of which illustrious family you
are, of course, aware yours is a younger branch. It is curious that the distinguishing mark
of the race should have been preserved in all its shapely beauty," added Frank, with the gravest
face possible, and glancing at the lavender kids, "through so many changes and so many successive
generations."

Aunt Deborah was delighted. "Such a clever young man, my dear!" she said to me afterwards.
"Such manners! such a voice! quite one of the old school--evidently well-bred, and with that
respect for good blood which in these days, I regret to say, is fast becoming obsolete. Kate,
I like him vastly!"

In the meantime she entered freely into conversation with our visitor; and before he went away--by
which time his hat looked as if it had been ironed--"she hoped he would call again; she was
always at home till two o'clock, and trusted to have the pleasure of his company at dinner
as soon as she was well enough to get anybody to meet him."

So Frank went off to ride in the Park on the neatest possible brown hack; for I saw him quite
plainly trot round the corner as I went into the balcony to water my poor geraniums.

Well, I waited and waited, and John never came for me, as was his usual habit; and I began
to think I must lose my ride, for I am not allowed to go by myself in the afternoons; and at
last I was obliged to coax Aunt Deborah to take me out in the open carriage, for it was a beautiful
day, and it would be just the thing for her cold. So we went dowagering about, and shopped
in Bond Street, and looked at some lace in Regent Street, and left cards for Lady Horsingham,
as in duty bound, after helping her to "make a good ball;" and then we went into the Ring,
and I looked and looked everywhere, but I could not see anything like Frank or his brown hack.
To be sure the Ride was as crowded as a fair. But I did see Cousin John, and I must say it
was too bad of him to keep me waiting and watching all the afternoon, and then never to take
the trouble of sending a note or a message, but to start off by himself and escort Miss Molasses,
as if he was her brother at least, if not a nearer relation. Miss Molasses, forsooth, with
her lackadaisical ways and her sentimental nonsense; and that goose John taking it all in open-mouthed,
as if she was an angel upon earth. Well, at all events she don't ride like me. Such a figure
I never saw on a horse!--all on one side, like the handle of a teapot, bumping when she trots
and wobbling when she canters, with braiding all over her habit, and a white feather in her
hat, and gauntlet gloves (of course one may wear gauntlet gloves for hunting, but that's not
London), and her sallow face. People call her interesting, but I call her bilious. And a wretched
long-legged Rosinante, with round reins and tassels, and a netting over its ears, and a head
like a fiddle-case, and no more action than a camp-stool. Such a couple I never beheld. I wonder
John wasn't ashamed to be seen with her, instead of leaning his hand upon her horse's neck,
and looking up in her face with his broad, honest smile, and taking no more notice of her sister
Jane, who is a clever girl, with something in her, than if she had been the groom. I was provoked
with him beyond all patience. Had it been Mrs. Lumley, for instance, I could have understood
it; for she certainly is a chatty, amusing woman, though dreadfully bold, and it is a pleasure
to see her canter up the Park in her close-fitting habit and her neat hat, with her beautiful
round figure swaying gracefully to every motion of her horse, yet so imperceptibly that you
could fancy she might balance a glassful of water on her head without spilling a drop. To say
nothing of the brown mare, the only animal in London I covet, who is herself a picture. Such
action! such a mouth! and such a shape! I coaxed Aunt Deborah to wait near Apsley House, on
purpose that we might see her before we left the Park. And sure enough we did see her, as usual
surrounded by a swarm of admirers; and next to her--positively next to her--Frank Lovell, on
the very brown hack that had been standing an hour at our door. He saw me too, and took his
hat off; and she said something to him, and they both laughed!

I asked Aunt Deborah to go home, for it was getting late, and the evening air was not very
good for her poor cold. I did not feel well myself somehow; and when dear aunty told me I looked
pale, I was forced to confess to a slight headache. I am not subject to low spirits generally--I
have no patience with a woman that is--but of course one is sometimes a "little out of sorts;"
and I confess I did not feel quite up to the mark that evening, I cannot tell why. If John
flatters himself it was because he behaved so brutally in disappointing me, he is very much
mistaken; and as for Captain Lovell, I am sure he may ride with anybody he likes for what I
care. I wonder, with all his cleverness, he can't see how that woman is only laughing at him.
However, it's no business of mine. So I went into my boudoir, drank some tea, and then locked
myself in and had a "good cry."

CHAPTER VII.

It is wonderful how soon the London season comes to an end; and, in fact, it is difficult to
say when its tide is really at the flood. Single men--and they are necessary ingredients for
gaiety wherever there are young ladies--single men seldom go to town much before the Derby.
Then comes Ascot, for which meeting they leave the metropolis, and enjoy some quiet retreat
in the neighbourhood of Windsor, taking with them many potables and what they call a "dog cook."
After Ascot people begin to think about going away, and before you know where you are three
more weeks have elapsed, and it is July. Dear, what a scatter there is then!--some off to Norway,
some to Cowes, some to Caithness, and some to Galway. Those that remain for Goodwood are sure
to go to Newmarket; and the man who sticks religiously to the pavement, and resists the allurements
of all the above-mentioned resorts, only does so because he is meditating a trip to California,
Kamtschatka, or the Rocky Mountains, and is so preoccupied with portable soup, patent saddle-bags,
bowie-knives, and revolvers that he might just as well be at his ultimate destination in person
for all the benefit one gets from his society. I confess I don't like the end of the season.
You keep on trying to be gay, whilst your friends are dropping off and disappearing one by
one. Like the survivor in some horrid pestilence, you know your time must come too; but you
shut your eyes to the certainty, and greet every fresh departure with a gaiety more forced
and a smile more and more hopeless.

Well, my London season too was drawing to its close, and I confess I had enjoyed it very much.
What with my morning gallops and afternoon saunters (for John had returned to his allegiance,
and came to take me out regularly, although he always joined Miss Molasses' party when he got
into the Park); what with Aunt Deborah's tiresome cold, which obliged me to go about a good
deal by myself, and the agreeable society of Frank Lovell, who never missed an opportunity
of being with us, I had been very happy, and I was quite sorry to think it was all so soon
to come to an end. John was already talking of a fishing excursion to Norway, and actually
proposed that I should accompany him; an arrangement which Aunt Deborah declared "was totally
impracticable," and which I confess I do not myself think would have been a very good plan.
I had made several pleasant acquaintances, amongst whom I may number Lady Scapegrace--that
much-maligned dame having taken a great fancy to me ever after the affair of the bull, and
proving, when I came to know her better, a very different person from what the world gave her
credit for being. With all her faults--the chief of which were an uncontrollable temper and
much too strong feelings for the nineteenth century--she had a warm, affectionate heart, and
was altogether an energetic, straightforward woman, very much in earnest, whether for good
or evil. But there was one thing that vexed me considerably amongst all my regrets for past
pleasures and castles in the air for the future, and this was the conduct of Captain Lovell.
What did he mean? I couldn't make him out at all. One day calling on my aunt at eleven in the
morning, and staying to luncheon, and making himself so agreeable to her, and bringing bouquets
of the loveliest flowers (which I know came from Harding's or else direct from Covent Garden)
to me; and then going away as if he had fifty more things to say, and lingering over his farewell
as if he was on the eve of departure for China instead of Mayfair, and joining me again in
the Park, and asking me if I was going to the Opera, and finding out all my engagements and
intentions, as if he couldn't possibly live five minutes out of my sight; and then, perhaps,
never coming near us for days together, till even my aunt "wondered what had become of that
pleasant Captain Lovell;" and when he met me in the Park, taking off his hat with a civil bow,
as if he had only been introduced the night before. All this I couldn't make out, and I didn't
half like, as I told Lady Scapegrace one hot morning, sitting with her in her boudoir. I was
a good deal at Lady Scapegrace's now, and the more so because that was the place of all others
at which I was least likely to meet Sir Guy. "Men are so uncertain, my dear," said her ladyship,
sitting in a morning deshabille, with her long black hair combed straight out over her shoulders
and reaching nearly to her knees. "If you ask me candidly whether he means anything, I tell
you I think Frank Lovell a shocking flirt." "Flirt!" I replied, half crying with vexation.
"It's time enough for him to flirt with me when I give him any encouragement. But I don't,
Lady Scapegrace, and I never will. I hope I'm too proud for that. Only when a man is always
in one's pocket wherever one goes; when he sends one bouquets, and rides out in the rain to
get one's bracelet mended, and watches one from a corner of the room if one happens to be dancing
with anybody else, and looks pleased when one is dull and cross when one laughs--why, he either
does prefer, or ought to prefer, one's society to that of Miss Molasses and Mrs. Lumley, and
that is why I tell you I can't quite make out Captain Lovell."

"Don't talk of that odious woman," exclaimed Lady Scapegrace, between whom and Mrs. Lumley
there was a polite feud of some years' standing. "She is ready and willing to jump down Frank
Lovell's throat, or any one else's for the matter of that, so bold as she is, and so utterly
regardless--such stories, my dear. But take my advice, Kate: play that cheerful cousin of yours
against Master Frank. I never knew it fail yet if you only go the right way to work. Men are
not only very vain, but very jealous. Don't let him think you are going to marry your cousin,
or he may consider it a capital arrangement and a sort of matter-of-course affair, which is
all in his favour. Men like Frank always prefer other people's property, and I have no doubt
he would be over head and ears in love with you if you were not single. So don't be going to
marry Mr. Jones, but just appeal to him about every earthly thing you do or say, look after
him when he leaves the room, as if you couldn't bear him out of your sight. Get Frank to abuse
him if you can, and then fight his battles fiercely; and directly the latter thinks there is
a rival in the field he will be down on his knees, you mark my words, in two days' time at
the furthest. I think I ought to know what men are, my dear" (and to do Lady Scapegrace justice,
she had studied that variety of the creation to some purpose, or she was much maligned). "I
know that they can't, any of them, see three yards before their noses, and that you can turn
and twist them which way you will if you only go upon this principle--that they are full of
vanity and self-conceit, and totally deficient in brains."

"But I'm sure Captain Lovell's a clever man," said I, not disposed to come to quite such sweeping
conclusions as those of my monitress; "and--and--I don't mean to say that I care about him,
Lady Scapegrace, but still it mightn't answer with him, and--and--I shouldn't like to lose
him altogether."

"Pooh! Lose him! Fiddlestick!" rejoined her ladyship. "You'll see. He is to join our party
at Greenwich this afternoon. By the way, when Sir Guy heard you were coming, he proposed to
drive us all down on that horrid coach. But I told him we should be taken for the people that
usually occupy it, and nothing should induce me to go; so that plan was given up. But you and
I will go down in the barouche, and I'll call for you, and we'll take Mr. Jones with us. And
mind you're very civil to him, and only notice the other in a quiet, good-humoured way--for
he mustn't think you do it out of pique--and before the whitebait is on the table you'll see
he'll be a different man. But now you must go--there's a dear. I'll call for you at five. It's
too bad to turn you out; but I'm never at home to any one between three and half-past four.
Good-bye, dear, good-bye."

And Lady Scapegrace kissed me most affectionately, and promised to call for me punctually at
five, till which hour I cannot make out why her time was always engaged.

As I tripped downstairs, hoping to make my escape without being attended by the whole establishment
to open the house-door, whom should I come across but odious Sir Guy, in a sort of scarlet
fancy dress, which I concluded was his morning "demi-toilette." He actually had the effrontery
to propose that I should accompany him to the stable, and that he should then "show me his
boudoir--hey? You look like a rose this morning, Miss Coventry. Should like to transplant you.
What?" And whilst he stood dodging and grinning on the stairs, I managed to slip by him and
get safe into the street. I wonder when men think they are beginning to grow old! I am sure
Sir Guy fancies he is still in the flower of his youth, and so charming that nobody can resist him.

What a pleasant day we had! Only we four--Lady Scapegrace, Cousin John, Captain Lovell, and
I. We went down in Lady Scapegrace's barouche, and walked in Greenwich Park, and adjourned
to a nice room with a bay window, and such a lookout over the river, blushing rose colour in
the evening sun. And the whitebait was so good, and the champagne-cup so nice; and we were
all in such spirits, and Frank was so kind and attentive and agreeable I couldn't find it in
my heart to be cross to him. So it ended in our making up any little imaginary differences
we may have had and becoming better friends than ever. As we sat in the balcony over the river--the
two gentlemen smoking their after-dinner cigars, and we ladies sipping our coffee--I thought
I had never enjoyed an evening so much; and even John, who was generally dreadfully afraid
of Lady Scapegrace, became quite lively and gallant (for him), and they laughed and talked
and joked about all sorts of things; while Frank leant over my shoulder and conversed more
gravely than was his habit; and I listened, and thought him pleasanter even than usual. By
the way, that lilac bonnet never quite lost the odour of tobacco afterwards.

"How quick the time passes!" said Frank, with almost a sigh. "Can't we do anything to put off
horrid London and home and bed? Let's all go to Vauxhall."

"What do you say, Mr. Jones?" inquired Lady Scapegrace, who was always ready for a lark; "you're
our chaperon, you know. Do you think you can be responsible?"

"Oh yes, John!" I exclaimed. "You promised to take me once before the end of the season. We
shall never have such another chance."

"This is a capital night to go," remarked Frank, "because there is a new riding-woman; and
you can take a lesson, Miss Coventry, in case you should wish to perform in public." Cousin
John could not possibly hold out against all three; and although I think in his heart he did
not entirely approve, the carriage was ordered, the bill paid, and we were rolling along through
the cool summer night en route for Vauxhall.

"My dear," said Lady Scapegrace to me as we sidled through the entrance of that place of amusement,
and the gentlemen remained behind to pay, "you are doing anything but what I told you; scarcely
three words have you spoken to your cousin, who, by the way, is very pleasant. I think I shall
take him up and improve him on my own account; but as for you, my dear, I can see plainly it's
all over with you."

"And you really leave town to-morrow?" said Frank as we walked arm in arm up one of those shaded
alleys which lead to the "Hermit," or the "Gipsy," or some other excuse for a tête-à-tête not
too much under the lamps. By the way, why is it that a party never can keep together at Vauxhall?
Lady Scapegrace and I had particularly stipulated that we were not to separate under any circumstances.
"Whatever happens, do let us keep together," we mutually implored at least ten times during
the first five minutes, and yet no sooner did we pair off arm in arm than the distance began
gradually to increase, till we found ourselves in "couples," totally independent of each other's
proceedings. In this manner we saw the horsemanship, and the acrobats, and the man with the
globe, and all the other eccentricities of the circus. I really think I could have ridden quite
as nicely as Madame Rose d'Amour had I been mounted on an equally well-broken animal with the
one which curvetted and caracoled under that much-rouged and widely-smiling dame. They do look
pretty too at a little distance those histrionic horsewomen, with their trappings and their
spangles and their costume of Francis I. I often wonder whether people really rode out hawking,
got up so entirely regardless of expense, in the days of the Field of the Cloth of Gold. From
the horsemanship we went to see the people dance, which they did with a degree of vigour and
hilarity such as might be introduced in a modified form with great advantage into good society;
and here we came across Cousin John and Lady Scapegrace just in time to witness a short and
abrupt interview between the latter and Sir Guy. Yes, there was Sir Guy, with the flower in
his mouth and all, dancing, actually dancing--and he can't be much less than sixty--with a
little smart lady, wearing the most brilliant colour and the blackest eyelashes and the reddest
lips and the lightest eyes I ever saw upon a human being. The little lady, whose hair, moreover,
was dressed à l'Impératrice, thereby imparting additional boldness to a countenance not remarkable
for modesty, frisked and whisked round Sir Guy with a vivacity that must have been of Parisian
growth; whilst the Baronet laboured ponderously along with true British determination, like
a man who habitually wears very thick shoes and is used to take his own time. In the course
of his evolutions he brought his foot down heavily on the skirt of a lady's dress, and turning
round to apologize found himself face to face with his wife! To do him justice he was not the
least taken aback--anger rather than confusion seemed to be his dominant feeling; and although
he tried to smother a rising oath in a laugh, or rather a grin, it was such a muscular contraction
of the mouth as does not give me the idea of a smile.

"Come out for a lark too, my lady, hey?" said the Baronet, studiously interposing his large
person between "my lady" and his partner. "Reminds one of Paris; dance with anybody, whether
one knows them or not." And Sir Guy tried to look as if he was telling the truth with indifferent
success. But Lady Scapegrace's face was a perfect study; I never saw a countenance so expressive
of scorn--intense scorn--and yet, as it seemed to me, not so much of him as of herself.

"I am glad you amuse yourself, Sir Guy," she said very quietly; but her lip was as white as
ashes while she spoke. "I should think this place must suit you exactly. Mr. Jones, we shall
be late for the fireworks." And she swept on, taking no further notice of the discomfited Sir
Guy, whilst Frank and I followed in her wake, feeling rather awkward even at witnessing this
ill-timed rencontre.

"And so you leave town to-morrow, Miss Coventry?" said Frank; and I thought his voice shook
a little whilst he spoke. "I shall ride down Lowndes Street every day, and think how deserted
it looks. No more walks in the morning for me, no more pleasant rides in the afternoons; I
shall send my hacks home and sulk by myself, for I shall be miserable when my friends are gone.
Do you know, Miss Coventry"--I listened, all attention; how could I tell what he might not
be going to say?--"do you know that I have never had courage to ask you something till to-night?"
(Goodness! I thought, now it's coming, and my heart beat as it does when I'm going out hunting.)
"I want you to give me" (a lock of my hair, thinks I. Well, I don't know; perhaps I may)--"I
want you to give me--Miss Horsingham's receipt for making barley-water; but I know it's a long
business to write out, and I'm afraid of being troublesome." So that was all, was it? I felt
half inclined to laugh, and more than half inclined to cry; but turning round I was somewhat
consoled to find Lady Scapegrace and her cavalier close behind us; and I do confess I rather
attributed Frank's extremely moderate request to their immediate vicinity; there was no opportunity,
however, of renewing the subject. John had said all he had to say to his companion. John soon
gets high and dry with these smart ladies, and they seem mutually tired of each other; so we
got the carriage and took our departure, Frank pressing my hand as he bade me farewell, and
whispering, "Au revoir, Miss Coventry; something tells me it won't be very long before we meet
again." What could he mean?

CHAPTER VIII.

It was a melancholy work to glide out of London by the last train, and to think that one's
gaieties were over for that summer, and that there was nothing to look forward to till the
hunting season but Dangerfield and Lady Horsingham, and the wearisome monotony of a regular
country-house life. Aunt Deborah and I settled ourselves comfortably in a roomy first-class
carriage, she with her knitting and I with the last Punch--in which, by the way, was the portrait
of a dandy, the very image of Frank Lovell--and prepared for our journey, as ladies generally
do, by arranging multifarious outworks of smelling-bottles, shawls, reticules, parasols, etc.,
without which paraphernalia no well-bred woman can possibly travel a hundred yards. I confess
I dreaded the trip. I was too well aware by experience that a railway always makes Aunt Deborah
rather cross and me very sleepy; so I knew what was coming, and I was not disappointed. Before
we had fairly left the outskirts of London I saw by the way in which my aunt laid down her
knitting and the ominous cough or two in which she indulged that I was in for a lecture; and
sure enough, just as we emerged on the open fields and began to smell the fresh country air,
it began.

"Kate," said my aunt, "as we are going to a very regular and well-conducted establishment,
I think it is a good opportunity for me to say a few words to you as regards your past conduct."

"Good gracious, aunt!" I replied, quite frightened, "what have I done?"

"My dear," said my aunt, "I have seen a great deal going on lately that I have taken no notice
of; but it don't follow that I should approve of it any more than John."

"And what has John got to do with it, I should like to know?" I rejoined, firing up on the
instant, for such a chance of carrying the war into the enemy's country was not to be neglected.
"John, indeed! I'm sure, aunt, John encourages me in all my unfeminine pursuits, as you call
them; and if he has been telling tales or setting you against me, I'll soon let him know what
I think of such conduct. I'll soon tell him that I'm not going to be accountable to him; indeed,
that I'm not going to----"

"Hush, my dear," said Aunt Deborah; "there is no occasion for all this animosity against John.
After all, it is very natural, poor fellow, that he should feel aggrieved and annoyed. There's
that Captain Lovell: I don't mean to say that he's not an agreeable, well-informed young man,
but there he is coming to see you at all hours, riding with you in the Park, whispering to
you at the Opera, bringing you new music and old china and fresh flowers, and conducting himself
altogether as if he was either your accepted suitor or mine--and I don't think the latter very
likely, Kate--whereas, you know, John----" My aunt stopped short. The ringing of the bell and
loud exclamations of "Trotter's Heath! Trotter's Heath! All out for Sheepshanks, Fleecyfold,
and Market Muddlebury!" announced that we had arrived at the Muddlebury Junction; and the opportune
entrance into the carriage of a stranger, who seemed extremely anxious concerning the safety
of a brace of pointers that accompanied him, effectually prevented my aunt from proceeding
with her discourse; while the dead silence which followed the renewed puffing of the engine,
and the vibration of the train, gave me an opportunity of studying attentively the person and
features of our new fellow-traveller.

I don't think I ever saw a man so freckled in my life. Even the backs of his hands (for he
wore no gloves--I should think didn't even know his number!) were studded with spots till you
could have hardly put a pin's point on a place free from this horrid disfigurement. His face,
too, was like a plum-pudding on which the fruit had been showered with a most liberal hand;
but the features were good, and had it not been for his red hair, a little grizzled, and his
stiff red whiskers, the bright-blue eyes and white teeth would almost have entitled him to
be considered "handsome." He had a strong, stiff-built figure, about the middle size, well
made for everything but dancing, and large, useful feet encased in the stoutest double-soled
shooting shoes. The latter articles of costume proved him at once to be a country gentleman.
Every one must have remarked this peculiarity in that enviable class. Their attire, particularly
as regards the lower man, is invariably of a nature to defy the utmost inclemency of the weather,
and is worn totally irrespective of the season or the pursuit in which the owner may chance
to be engaged at the time. But even independent of these tell-tales the stranger's social position
was easily enough discerned by the deference with which he was treated "along the line," and
the title of "Squire," which greeted him from guards, porters, and book-keepers at every station
we passed.

So humane a master of dumb animals, or one so fidgety as to their welfare, I never came across;
and this, I confess, prepossessed me in his favour. Every time the train stopped out jumped
our fellow-traveller, and off he went to a certain van containing his treasures, from which
he emerged with a very red face and a constantly-repeated apology for disturbing me on his
return to his seat. Despite of his thick shoes and his freckles, I could see the man was a
gentleman; but, dear me, what a contrast to the smart gentlemen I had lately been accustomed
to meet! Beyond a "Beg your pardon; I fear I'm very much in your way," accompanied by such
a vivid blush as can be performed only by a red-haired man, the Squire did not venture on any
communication either with me or my aunt; and with the latter's lecture fresh in my mind I did
not, as may be supposed, dare to take the initiative by dropping my gloves, or pretending I
couldn't pull up the window, or any other little lady-like manoeuvre which lays the foundation
of a temporary intimacy, and often furnishes one with an agreeable hour's conversation. I can
not see why one should sit "mum" opposite the same person for miles, merely because one has
never been introduced.

When we arrived at length at the Dangerfield Station, where Lady Horsingham's emblazoned coach
and fat horses were in waiting for us, "the Squire," who was here treated with a deference
bordering on idolatry, got out too. He made an involuntary motion with his hand, as though
he would have taken his hat off, and wished us "good-morning;" but his shyness got the better
of him, and he disappeared from the platform, entangled amongst his dumb favourites, with a
blush that was visible even at the back of his head, where the tips of his ears met the rim
of his white hat. As we toiled up the sandy lane leading from Dangerfield Station to Dangerfield
Park, we were overtaken by a smart, high dogcart, drawn by a clever, raking-looking bay mare,
and driven by the owner of the freckles, the pointers, and the white hat.

"Bachelor, my dear," said Aunt Deborah as he whisked by, "and not at all a bad-looking man either."

"How do you know he's a bachelor, aunt?" I naturally inquired.

"Common-sense, my dear," replied Aunt Deborah sententiously. "I judge of people by their belongings.
No lady could get into that dogcart without dirtying her dress against the wheel; and if he
had a wife, that handsome bay horse would go with another in her carriage instead of his. Besides,
he wouldn't be so fond of his pointers if he had anything else to care for; and above all,
Kate," added my aunt conclusively, "his silk handkerchief wasn't hemmed, and he'd a button
wanting in the front of his shirt."

All my life I have had a sinking at my heart when I have heard the ring at that great Dangerfield
front door bell. It was better in my poor uncle's time, for he would have made any place lively;
but since his death the Park has relapsed into its natural solemnity, and I am quite sure that
if ever I do go into a convent my sensations will be exactly like those which I have always
experienced when visiting Aunt Horsingham. The moat alone is enough to give one the "blues;"
but in addition to that, the thick horse-chestnuts grow up to the very windows, and dark Scotch
firs shed a gloom all over the Park. Dangerfield is one of those places that seem always to
be in the shade. How the strawberries ever ripen, or the flowers ever bloom, or the birds ever
sing there is to me a mystery. Outside there are dark walls and yew hedges and cypresses, and
here and there a copper beech, with lawns that are never mown and copses that are never thinned,
to say nothing of that stagnant moat, with its sombre and prolific vegetation; whilst within,
black oak wainscoting, and heavy tapestry, and winding staircases, and small, deep-set windows,
and oddly-shaped rooms, with steps at the door like going down into a bath, and doors considerably
up and down hill, and queer recesses that frighten one out of one's wits to go into, form altogether
a domicile that would tame the wildest Merry-Andrew in a fortnight into as staid and sober
and stupid a personage as the veriest Lady Superior could desire. Aunt Horsingham received
us as usual with a freezing smile.

"How do you do, Kate?" said she, putting two of her cold bony fingers into my hand. "I'm afraid
you will find it rather dull here after London; but it is wholesome for young people to be
occasionally sobered a little."

Aunt Horsingham is tall and thin, with a turn-up nose, rather red at the point, a back that
never stoops, and a grim smile that never varies. She dresses in bright colours, affecting
strange and startling contrasts, both of hues and material. Her hands are always cold and seldom
clean; and she has sundry uncomfortable notions about damping the spirits of youth and checking
the exuberance of its gaiety which render her a perfect terror and bugbear to the rising generation.
When I was a little thing, laughing, prattling, and giggling, as children will, an admonishing
look from my aunt, with a gaunt finger held aloft, and a cold "Kate, don't be silly, my dear,"
was always sufficient to make me dull and gloomy for the rest of the day.

I should like to know indeed why children are not to be "silly." Are grown-up people always
so rational in their amusements or irreproachable in their demeanour? "Let the child alone,"
poor Uncle Harry used to say; and once I overheard him mutter, "I've more patience with a young
fool than an old one." Such training has not had a good effect on Cousin Amelia. She has been
so constantly tutored to conceal her emotions and to adopt the carriage and manners of an automaton
that the girl is now a complete hypocrite. It is quite impossible to make her out. If you tickled
her, I don't believe you could get her to laugh; and if you struck her, I very much doubt whether
she would cry. My aunt calls it "self-command;" I call it "imbecility." She shook hands with
me in her provokingly patronizing manner--"hoped I had brought my horses with me" (as if I
was coming to spend months at Dangerfield without Brilliant!); "supposed I had my side-saddle
in the cap-box;" and showed me my room without so much as a single kind word of welcome or
a cousinly caress. It was quite a relief to help dear Aunt Deborah to unpack her dressing-case,
and kiss her pleasant face, and give her the warm cup of tea without which Aunt Deborah never
dreams of dressing for dinner.

Oh, those solemn, heavy, silent, stupid dinners, with the massive plate and the dark oak wainscoting,
and the servants gliding about like ghosts at a festival in Acheron! What a relief it would
have been even to have had a clownish footman spill soup over one's dress, or ice-cream down
one's back, or anything to break the monotony of the entertainment! But, no; there we sat,
Aunt Horsingham remarking that the "weather was dull" and the "crops looking very unpromising;"
Aunt Deborah with her eyes fixed on a portrait of the late Mr. David Jones as a boy, opposite
which she invariably took her place, and on which, though representing an insignificant urchin
in a high frill and blue jacket, she gazed intently during the whole repast; Cousin Amelia
looking at herself in the silver dish-covers, and when those were removed relapsing into a
state of irritable torpor; and as for poor me, all I could do was to think over the pleasures
of the past season, and dwell rather more than I should otherwise have done on the image of
Frank Lovell, and the very agreeable acquisition he would have been to such a party. And then
the evenings were, if possible, worse than the dinners--work, work, work--mum, mum, mum--till
tea. And after tea Aunt Horsingham would read to us, in her dry harsh voice, long passages
from the Spectator, very excellent articles from the Rambler, highly interesting in their day
no doubt, but which lose some of their point after an interval of nearly a century; or, worse
than all, Pope's "Homer" or Cowper's "Task," running the lines into each other, so as to avoid
what she called "the sing-song of the rhymes," till the poet's effusions sounded like the most
extraordinary prose, cut into lengths, as we ladies should say, for no earthly purpose but
to make nonsense of the whole thing. Her ladyship never went to bed till eleven; so there,
having dined at half-past six to a minute, we were forced to sit three mortal hours and a half,
swallowing yawns and repressing that inexplicable disorder termed the "fidgets" till the welcome
bed-candles arrived. No wonder men drink and smoke and commit all sort of enormities to fill
up those dreadful hours after dinner. I think if ever I take to tobacco it will be at Dangerfield.

Then of course the Hall was haunted; and of course my passage was the one which the ghost particularly
affected. It was a sad story that of "the Dangerfield ghost." I have got it all out of Aunt
Deborah at different times; and though I don't exactly believe in the spectre, I can't help
sometimes crying over the incidents. The fact is, the Horsinghams were quite as proud of their
ghost as they were of their hand; and although not a very creditable tale to any of the family,
Aunt Deborah would never forgive me if I were not to relate the tragedy which conferred on
Dangerfield the honour of being a haunted house.

In the reign of George II, the head of the house, Sir Hugh Horsingham, married a young wife,
and brought her home to Dangerfield with the usual demonstrations and rejoicings peculiar to
such an event. Sir Hugh was a dark, morose man, considerably older than his bride; stern and
forbidding in his manners, but possessing deep feelings under a reserved exterior, and a courage
and determination not to be daunted or subdued. Such a man was capable of great things for
good or for evil; and such was the very nature on which a woman's influence might have produced
the most beneficial results. But, unfortunately, young Lady Horsingham had but one feeling
for her lord, and that was intense terror of his anger. She never sought to win his confidence;
she never entered into his political schemes, his deeper studies, or even his country amusements
and pursuits. All she thought of was how to avoid offending Sir Hugh; and ere long this one
idea grew to such a pitch that she quite trembled in his presence, could scarcely answer distinctly
when he spoke to her, and seemed hardly to draw breath in freedom save when out of his sight.
Such a state of things could have but one ending--distrust and suspicion on one side, unqualified
aversion on the other. A marriage, never of inclination, as indeed in those days amongst great
families few marriages were, became an insupportable slavery ere the first year of wedded life
had elapsed; and by the time an heir was born to the house of Horsingham, probably there was
no unhappier couple within fifty miles of Dangerfield than dark Sir Hugh and his pretty, fair-haired,
gentle wife. No; she ought never to have married him at all. It was but the night before her
wedding that she walked in the garden of her father's old manor-house with a bright, open-hearted,
handsome youth, whose brow wore that expression of acute agony which it is so pitiable to witness
on a young countenance--that look almost of physical pain, which betokens how the iron has
indeed "entered the sufferer's soul." "Ah, you may plead, 'Cousin Edward;' but we women are
of a strange mixture, and the weakest of us may possess obstinacy such as no earthly consideration
can overcome." "Lucy! Lucy! for the last time, think of it; for the love of Heaven, do not
drive me mad; think of it once more; it is the last, last chance!" The speaker was white as
a sheet, and his hollow voice came in hoarse, inarticulate whispers as he looked almost fiercely
into that dear face to read his doom. Too well he knew the set, fixed expression of her delicate
profile. She did not dare turn towards him; she could not have looked him in the face and persevered;
but she kept her eyes fastened on the horizon, as though she saw her future in the fading sunset;
and whilst her heart seemed turning to very stone she kept her lips firmly closed; she repressed
the tears that would have choked her, and so for that time she conquered.

Lucy had a great idea of duty; hers was no high-principled love of duty from the noblest motives,
but a morbid dread of self-reproach. She had not character enough to do anything out of her
own notions of the beaten track. She had promised her father she would marry Sir Hugh Horsingham--not
that he had the slightest right to exact such a promise--and she felt bound to fulfil it. She
never remembered the injury she was doing "Cousin Edward," the right which such devotion as
his ought to have given him. She knew she loved him better than any one in the world; she knew
she was about to commit an act of the greatest injustice towards Sir Hugh; but she had "promised
papa," and though she would have given worlds to avoid fulfilling her compact, she had not
strength of mind to break the chain and be free.

Cousin Edward! Cousin Edward! you should have carried her off then and there; she would have
been truly grateful for the rest of her life, but she would have died sooner than open her
lips. He was hurt--reckless--almost savage. He thought her sullen. "Once more, Lucy," he said,
and his eye glared fiercely in the waning light--"once more, will you give me one word, or
never set eyes on me again?" Her lip never moved. "I give you till we pass that tree"--he looked
dangerous now--"and then"--he swore a great oath--"I leave you for ever!" Lucy thought the
tree looked strange and ghastly in the rising moon, she even remarked a knot upon its smooth
white stem; but she held out whilst one might have counted ten; and when she turned round,
poor girl, Cousin Edward was gone!

CHAPTER IX.

So the bells rung merrily at Dangerfield, and the rustics huzzaed for their landlord and the
comely village maidens envied the bride; and Lucy was Lady Horsingham now, with new duties
and a high position, and a large, fine, gloomy house, and jewels in her hair, and an aching
heart in her bosom. Nevertheless, she determined to do her duty as a wife; and every hour of
the day she resolved not to think of Cousin Edward.

Years elapsed, and pretty Lucy became a gentle, handsome woman--kindly, courteous, and beloved
by all, timid, and shrinking only with Sir Hugh. Her husband, wearied and discontented, mixed
himself fiercely in all the intrigues of the day--became a staunch partisan of the House of
Stuart, and sought for excitement abroad in proportion as he missed congeniality of feeling
at home. It was an unhappy household. Their one child was the mother's sole consolation; she
scarcely ever let it out of her presence. They were a pretty sight, that loving couple, as
they basked in the sun of a fine summer's morning on the terrace in front of the manor-house.
The boy, with his mother's blue eyes and his own golden curls and the arch, merry smile that
he never got from stern Sir Hugh; and the fair, graceful woman, with her low, white brow and
her soft brown hair and her quiet gestures and gentle sorrowing face--that face that haunts
poor Cousin Edward still.

"Mamma!" says the urchin, pouting his rosy lips, "why don't you play with me?--what are you
thinking of?" and a shade passes over that kind face, and she blushes, though there is no one
with her but the child, and catches him up and smothers him in kisses, and says "You, my darling;"
but, nevertheless, I do not think at that moment she was thinking either of her boy or Sir Hugh.

And where was Cousin Edward all the time? Why, at that particular instant, sword-point to sword-point
with Colonel Bludyer of the Dragoons, slightly wounded in two places--cool and wary, and seeming
to enjoy, with a sort of fierce pleasure, such a safety-valve for excitement as a duel with
one of the best fencers in Europe.

Cousin Edward was an altered man since he stood with the future Lady Horsingham in the moonlight.
"An evil counsellor is despair;" and he had hugged that grim adviser to his heart. He had grown
handsomer, indeed, than ever; but the wild eye, the haggard brow, and the deep lines about
his mouth spoke of days spent in fierce excitement--nights passed in reckless dissipation.
He had never forgotten Lucy through it all, but even her image only goaded him to fresh extravagances--anything
to deaden the sting of remembrance--anything to efface the maddening past. So Cousin Edward
too became a Jacobite; and was there a daring scheme to be executed, a foolhardy exploit to
be performed--life and limb to be risked without a question--who so ready and so reckless as
"handsome Ned Meredith"?

In the course of their secret meetings and cabals he became slightly acquainted with Sir Hugh
Horsingham; and, with the inexplicable infatuation peculiar to a man in love, he look a pleasure
in being near one so closely connected with Lucy, although that one was the very person who
had deprived him of all he valued on earth. So it fell out that Sir Hugh Horsingham and Ned
Meredith were supping at the Rose and Thistle in close alliance, the table adjoining them being
occupied by those staunch Hanoverians, Colonel Bludyer and Mr. Thornton.

"Here's 'The Blackbird,'"* said Cousin Edward, tossing off a huge goblet of Bordeaux, and looking
round the room with an air of defiance as he proposed so well-known a toast. Sir Hugh was a
man of a certain grim humour, and as he drained his goblet and nodded to his companion, he
added, "May the rats dance to his whistle, and the devil--that's you, Ned--take the hindmost!"

  * One of the many passwords by which the adherents of the Chevalier
    distinguished that ill-fated Prince.

Colonel Bludyer rose from his chair, placed his cocked hat on his head, and turned the buckle
of his sword-belt in front. "The King!" he shouted, raising his hat with one hand and filling
a bumper with the other. "The King!" he repeated, scowling fiercely at his two neighbours.

"Over the water!" roared Ned Meredith; and the Colonel, turning rapidly round and mistaking
his man, flung his cocked hat right in Sir Hugh Horsingham's face.

Swords were out in a second--thrust, parry, and return passed like lightning, but the bystanders
separated the combatants; and Meredith, determining for the sake of Lucy that Sir Hugh should
encounter no unnecessary danger, took the whole quarrel on himself, and arranged a meeting
for the following morning with the redoubtable Colonel Bludyer. Thus it was that while Lucy
and her boy were basking in the summer sunshine, Cousin Edward was exhausting all his knowledge
of swordsmanship in vain endeavours to get within that iron Colonel's guard. The duel was fought
on the ground now occupied by Leicester Square, Sir Hugh and Mr. Thornton officiating as seconds,
though, the latter being disabled from the effects of a recent encounter, they did not, as
was usual in those days, fight to the death, merely "pour se désennuyer." Stripped to their
shirts--in breeches and silk stockings, with no shoes--the antagonists lunged and glared and
panted, and twice paused for breath by mutual consent, with no further damage than two slight
wounds in Ned's sword-arm.

"Very pretty practice," said Mr. Thornton, coolly taking a pinch of snuff, and offering his
box to Sir Hugh. "I'm in despair at not being able to oblige you this fine morning."

"Some other time," replied Sir Hugh with a grim smile; "d----ation," he added, "Ned's down!"

Sure enough Cousin Edward was on the grass, striving in vain to raise himself, and gasping
out that he "wasn't the least hurt." He had got it just between the ribs, and was trying to
stanch the blood with a delicate laced handkerchief, in a corner of which, had he examined
it closely, Sir Hugh would have found embroidered the well-known name of "Lucy." Poor Cousin
Edward! it was all he had belonging to his lost love, and he would have been unwilling to die
without that fragment of lace in his hand.

"A very promising fencer," remarked Colonel Bludyer, as he wiped his rapier on the grass. "If
he ever gets over it, he won't forget that "plongeant" thrust in tierce. I never knew it fail,
Thornton--never, with a man under thirty." So the Colonel put his coat on, and drove off to
breakfast; while Sir Hugh took charge of Ned Meredith, and as soon as he was recovered--for
his wound was not mortal--carried him down with him to get thoroughly well at Dangerfield Hall.

It is an old, old story. Love, outraged and set at defiance, bides his time, and takes his
revenge. Dangerfield looked like a different place now, so thought Lucy; and her spirits rose,
and the colour came back to her cheek, and she even summoned courage to speak without hesitating
to Sir Hugh. When Cousin Edward was strong enough to limp about the house, it seemed that glimpses
of sunshine brightened those dark oak rooms; and ere he was able to take the air, once more
leaning on Lucy's arm, alas! alas! he had become even dearer to the impassioned, thoughtful
woman than he ever was to the timid, vacillating girl. There was an addition now to the party
on the terrace in the bright autumn mornings, but the little boy needed no longer to ask mamma
"what she was thinking of;" and the three would have seemed to a careless observer a happy
family party--husband, wife, and child. Oh that it could but have been so!

In the meantime Sir Hugh was again as usual busied with his state intrigues and party politics,
and absented himself for weeks together from the Hall; riding post to London night and day,
returning at all sorts of unexpected hours, leaving again at a moment's notice, and otherwise
comporting himself in his usual mysterious reserved manner. Yet those who knew him best opined
there was something wrong about Sir Hugh. He was restless and preoccupied; his temper less
easily excited about trifles than was his wont, but perfectly ungovernable when once he gave
way to it. No man dared to question him. He had not a friend in the world who would have ventured
to offer him a word of advice or consolation; but it was evident to his servants and his intimates
that Sir Hugh was ill at ease. Who can tell the struggles that rent that strong, proud heart?
Who could see beneath that cold surface, and read the intense feelings of love, hatred, jealousy,
or revenge that smouldered below, stifled and kept down by the iron will, the stubborn, indomitable
pride? There is a deep meaning in the legend of that Spartan boy who suffered the stolen fox
to gnaw his very vitals, the while he covered him with his tunic and preserved on his brave
face a smile of unconcern. Most of us have a stolen fox somewhere; but the weak nature writhes
and moans, and is delivered from its torment, while the bold, unflinching spirit preserves
a gallant bearing before the world, and scorns to be relieved from the fangs that are draining
its very life away.

Whatever Sir Hugh saw or suspected, he said not a word to Lucy, nor was it until surmise had
become certainty that he forbade "Cousin Edward" the house. To him he would not condescend
to explain his motives; he simply wrote to him to say that on his return he should expect to
find that his guest had departed, and that he had sufficient reasons for requesting his visits
might not be repeated. With his wife he was, if possible, more austere and morose than ever;
so once more the Hall resumed its old aspect of cheerlessness and desolation, and its mistress
went moping about, more than ever miserable and broken-hearted. Such a state of things could
not long go on; the visits forbidden openly took place by stealth; and the climax rapidly approached
which was to result in the celebrated Dangerfield tragedy.

At this period there was set on foot another of those determined plots which during the first
two reigns of the house of Hanover so constantly harassed that dynasty. Sir Hugh of course
was a prime mover of the conspiracy, and was much in London and elsewhere gathering intelligence,
raising funds, and making converts to his opinions. Ned Meredith, having, it is to be presumed,
all his energies occupied in his own private intrigues, had somewhat withdrawn of late from
the Jacobite party; and Sir Hugh heard, with his grim, unmoved smile, many a jest and innuendo
levelled at the absentee.

One stormy winter's evening the baronet, well armed, cloaked, and booted, left his own house
for the metropolis, accompanied by one trusty servant. He was bearing papers of importance,
and was hurrying on to lay them with the greatest dispatch before his fellow-conspirators.
As night was drawing on, Sir Hugh's horse shied away from a wild figure, looming like some
spectre in the fading light; and ere he had forced the animal back into the path, his bridle
was caught by a half-naked lad, whom the rider at once recognized as an emissary he had often
before employed to be the bearer of secret intelligence, and who, under an affectation of being
half-witted, concealed much shrewdness of observation and unimpeachable fidelity to the cause.

"Whip and spur, Sir Hugh--whip and spur," said the lad, who seemed flustered and confused with
drink; "you may burst your best horse betwixt this and London, and all to get there before
you're wanted. A dollar to drink, Sir Hugh, like handsome Ned gave me this morning--a dollar
to drink, and I'll save you a journey for the sake of the 'Bonny White Rose' and the 'Bird
with the Yellow Bill.'"

Sir Hugh scrutinized the lad with a piercing eye, flung him a crown from his purse, and bid
him "out with what he had to say, for that he himself was hurried, and must push on to further
the good cause." The lad was sobered in an instant.

"Look ye here, Sir Hugh," he said eagerly; "handsome Ned went down the road at a gallop this
morning. There's something brewing in London, you may trust me, Sir Hugh, and I tried to stop
him to learn his errand; but he tossed me a crown and galloped on. He took the Hill road, Sir
Hugh, and you came up the Vale; but he's bound for Dangerfield, I know, and mayhap he's got
papers that will save your journey to London. No offence, Sir Hugh," added the lad, for the
baronet's face was black as midnight.

"None, my good boy," was the reply in a hoarse, thick voice. "Hold, there's another crown for
you--drink it every farthing, you villain! or I never give you a sixpence again;" and Sir Hugh
rode on as though bound for London, but stopped a mile farther forward, at a place where two
roads met; and entrusting his papers to his servant, bade him hasten on with them, whilst he
galloped back through the darkness in the direction of his home.

Home, indeed! Had it ever been home to Sir Hugh? Would it be home to-night? When he got back
there, and skulked into his own house like a midnight thief--what would he do?--why was he
galloping so fast? Sir Hugh set his teeth tight, and holding his powerful horse hard by the
head urged him on faster than before. The lights are all out in the little village of which
he is sole master, and his horse's hoofs clattering through the street rouse the sleepy inmates
for an instant ere they return to their peaceful rest. Sir Hugh is not sleepy; he feels as
if he never should want to sleep again.

How dark it is in the Park under those huge old trees! He fastens his horse to one of the drooping
branches, and after removing his pistols from their holsters spreads his cloak over the heaving
flanks of the heated animal. Habit is second nature, and he does not forget the good horse.
He strides through the shrubberies and across Lucy's garden, crushing with his heavy boot-heel
the last flower that had lingered on into the winter. There is a light streaming from one of
the windows in the gallery. Ha!--he may be right--he may not have returned in vain. For an
instant a feeling of sickness comes over him, and he learns for the first time that he had
cherished a hope he might be deceived.

He can let himself in by the garden-gate with his own pass-key. Ere he is aware, he is tramping
up the corridor in his heavy horseman's boots--his hand is on the door--there is a woman's
shriek--and Sir Hugh's tall, dark figure fills the doorway of Lucy's sitting-room, where, alas!
she is not alone, for the stern, angry husband is confronted by Ned Meredith!

Lucy cowers down in a corner of the room with her face buried in her hands. Cousin Edward draws
himself up to his full height, and looks his antagonist steadily in the face, but with an expression
of calm despair that seems to say fate has now done her worst. Sir Hugh is cool, collected,
and polite; nay, he can even smile, but he speaks strangely, almost in a whisper, and hisses
through his set teeth. He has double-locked the door behind him, and turns to Cousin Edward
with a grave, courteous bow.

"You have done me the honour of an unexpected visit, Mr. Meredith," he says. "I trust Lady
Horsingham has entertained you hospitably! Pray do not stir, madam. Mr. Meredith, we are now
quits; you saved my life when you encountered Colonel Bludyer; I forbore from taking yours
when I had proofs that it was my right. We have now entered on a fresh account, but the game
shall be fairly played. Mr. Meredith, you are a man of honour--yes, it shall be fairly played."
Ned's lip quivered, but he bowed and stood perfectly still. "Lady Horsingham," continued Sir
Hugh, "be good enough to hand me those tables; they contain a dice-box.--Nay, Mr. Meredith,"
seeing Ned about to assist the helpless, frightened woman; "when present, at least, I expect
my wife to obey me." Lucy was forced to rise, and, trembling in every limb, to present the
tables to her lord. Sir Hugh placed the dice-box on the table, laid his pistols beside it,
and, taking a seat, motioned to Cousin Edward to do the same. "You are a man of honour, Mr.
Meredith," he repeated; "we will throw three times, and the highest caster shall blow the other's
brains out." Lucy shrieked and rushed to the door; it was fast, and her husband forced her
to sit down and watch the ghastly game.

"Good God, Sir Hugh!" exclaimed Cousin Edward, "this is too horrible--for your wife's sake--any
reparation I can make, I will; but this is murder, deliberate murder!"

"You are a man of honour, Mr. Meredith," reiterated Sir Hugh. "I ask for no reparation but
this--the chances are equal if the stakes are high. You are my guest, or rather, I should say,
Lady Horsingham's guest. Begin." Cousin Edward's face turned ghastly pale. He took the box,
shook it, hesitated; but the immovable eye was fixed on him, the stern lips repeated once more,
"You are a man of honour," and he threw--"Four." It was now Sir Hugh's turn. With a courteous
bow he received the box, and threw--"Seven." Again the adversaries cast, the one a six, the
other a three; and now they were even in the ghastly match. Once more Cousin Edward shook the
box, and the leaping dice turned up--"Eleven." Lucy's white face stood out in the lamplight,
as she watched with stony eyes that seemed to have lost the very power of sight.

"For God's sake, forego this frightful determination, Sir Hugh," pleaded Cousin Edward; "take
my life in a fair field. I will offer no resistance; but you can hardly expect to outdo my
throw, and nothing shall induce me to take advantage of it. Think better of it, Sir Hugh, I
entreat you."

"You are a man of honour, Mr. Meredith, and so am I," was the only reply, as Sir Hugh brandished
the box aloft, and thundered it down on the table--"Sixes!" "Good casting," he remarked; and
at the same instant cocking the pistol nearest to him, discharged it full into his antagonist's
bosom. The bullet sped through a delicate lace handkerchief, which he always wore there, straight
and true into Cousin Edward's heart. As he fell forward across the table, a dark stream flowed
slowly along the carpet, till it dyed the border of Lucy's white dress with a crimson stain.
She was on her knees, apparently insensible; but one small hand felt the cold, wet contact,
and she looked at it, and saw that it was blood. Once more she uttered a shriek that rang through
those vast buildings, and rushed again to the door to find it locked. In sheer despair she
made for the window, threw open the casement, and ere Sir Hugh could seize or stop her flung
herself headlong into the court below. When the horrified husband looked down into the darkness,
a wisp of white garments, a bruised and lifeless body, was all that remained of Lady Horsingham.

That night one half of Dangerfield Hall was consumed by fire. Its mistress was said to have
perished in the flames. The good neighbours, the honest country people, pitied poor Sir Hugh,
galloping back from London, to find his house in ruins and his wife a corpse. His gay companions
missed "Ned Meredith" from his usual haunts; but it was generally supposed he had obtained
a mission to the court of St. Germains, and there was a rumour that he had perished in a duel
with a French marquis. A certain half-witted lad, who had followed Sir Hugh back to Dangerfield
on that fearful night, might have elucidated the mystery; but he had been kidnapped, and sent
to the plantations. After many years he returned to England, and on his deathbed left a written
statement, implicating Sir Hugh in the double crime of arson and murder. But long ere this
the culprit had appeared before a tribunal which admits of no prevarication, and the pretty
boy with the golden curls had become lord of Dangerfield Hall. The long corridor had been but
partially destroyed. It was repaired and refurnished by successive generations; but guests
and servants alike refused to sleep again in that dreary wing after the first trial. Every
night, so surely as the clock tolled out the hour of twelve, a rush of feet was heard along
the passage--a window looking into the court was thrown open--a piercing scream from a woman's
voice rang through the building--and those who were bold enough to look out averred that they
beheld a white figure leap wildly into the air and disappear. Some even went so far as to affirm
that drops of blood, freshly sprinkled, were found every morning on the pavement of the court.
But no one ever doubted the Dangerfield ghost to be the nightly apparition of Lucy, Lady Horsingham.
At length, in my grandfather's time, certain boards being lifted to admit of fresh repairs
in the accursed corridor, the silver-mounted guard of a rapier, the stock and barrel of a pistol,
with a shred of lace, on which the letter "L" was yet visible, were discovered by the workmen.
They are in existence still. Whatever other remains accompanied them turned to dust immediately
on exposure to the air. That dust was, however, religiously collected and buried in a mausoleum
appropriated to the Horsinghams. Since then the ghost has been less troublesome; but most of
the family have seen or heard it at least once in their lives. I confess that if ever I lie
awake at Dangerfield till the clock strikes twelve I invariably stop my ears and bury my head
under the bedclothes for at least a quarter of an hour. By these means I have hitherto avoided
any personal acquaintance with the spectre; but nothing on earth would induce me to walk down
that corridor at midnight and risk a private interview with the Dangerfield ghost!

CHAPTER X.

As for spending a whole morning in the drawing-room with the ladies it is what I cannot and
will not submit to. Working and scandal, scandal and working, from half-past ten till two is
more than I can stand, so the very first morning I was at Dangerfield I resolved to break the
chain at once, and do as I always meant to do for the future. Accordingly, immediately after
breakfast I popped my bonnet on--the lavender one, that had done a good deal of London work,
but was still quite good enough for the country--and started off for a walk by myself, confiding
my intentions to no one; as I well knew if I did I should have Aunt Deborah's "Kate, pray don't
overheat yourself, my dear. Do wrap yourself up, and take care not to catch cold;" and Lady
Horsingham's sarcastic smile, and "In my time, Miss Coventry, young ladies were not in the
habit of trailing all over the country by themselves; but I expect soon to hear of their farming
and fishing and shooting, I shouldn't wonder--not worse than hunting, at any rate. However,
I say nothing;" and Cousin Amelia with her lackadaisical sneer, and her avowal that "she was
not equal to walking," and her offer to "go as far as the garden with me in the afternoon."
So I tripped down the back staircase and away to the stables with a bit of sugar for Brilliant,
who had arrived safely by the train in company with White Stockings, and on through the kitchen-garden
and the home-farm up to the free, fresh, breezy down.

I do enjoy a walk by myself, and it was the last chance I should have of one; for Cousin John
was expected that very day, and when Cousin John and I are anywhere, of course we are inseparable.
But I am sure an occasional stroll quite by oneself does one more good than anything. I think
of such quantities of things that never occur to me at other times--fairies, brigands, knights,
and damsels, and all sorts of wild adventures; and I feel so brave and determined, as if I
could face anything in a right cause, and so good, and I make such excellent resolutions, and
walk faster and faster, and get more and more romantic, like a goose, as I know I am.

Well, it was a beautiful morning, early in autumn--blue sky, light fleecy clouds, a sharp,
clear air from the north, the low country studded with corn-ricks, and alive with reapers and
cart-teams and cattle. A green valley below me, rich in fine old timber, and clothed with high,
thick hedgerows, concealing the sluggish river that stole softly away, and only gleamed out
here and there to light up the distance; whilst above and around me stretched far and wide
the vast expanse of down, cutting sharply against the sky, and dwarfing to mere shrubs the
clumps of old fir trees that relieved its magnificent monotony. I was deep in a daydream and
an imaginary conversation with Frank Lovell--in which I was running over with much mental eloquence
what I should say, and what he would say, and what I should reply to that--when a shrill whistle
caused me to start and turn suddenly round; whilst at the same instant a great black retriever
bounced up against my legs, and two handsome pointers raced by me as if just emancipated from
the kennel. The consequence of all this was that I stepped hastily on a loose stone, turned
my foot the wrong way under me, and came down with a slightly-sprained ankle, and the black
retriever, an animal of exceedingly noisome breath, affectionately licking my face.

"Down, Juno!--I beg your pardon a million times; get down, you bitch! How shall I ever apologize?
Confound you, get down," said an agitated voice above me; and looking up I espied the red-haired
stranger of the railway, dressed in a most conspicuous shooting-costume, white hat and all,
whose dogs had been the means of bringing me thus suddenly to the earth, and on whom I was
now dependent for succour and support till I should be able to reach home.

In such an emergency my new friend was not half so confused and shy as I should have expected.
He seemed to summon all his energies to consider what was best to be done; and as my foot pained
me considerably when I tried to walk (particularly down hill), he made no more ado, but lifted
me carefully in his arms, and proceeded incontinently to carry me off in the direction of Dangerfield
Hall, where he seemed intuitively to know I was at present residing.

It was, to say the least of it, an unusual situation. A man I had never seen but once before
in my life--and here was I lying in his arms (precious weight he must have found me!) and looking
up in his face like a child in its nurse's, and the usages of society making it incumbent on
us both to attempt a sort of indifferent conversation about the weather and the country and
the beauty of the scenery, which the juxtaposition of our respective faces rendered ludicrous
in the extreme.

"A tempting day for a walk, Miss--ah--ah" (he didn't know my name--how should he?--and was
now beginning to get very red, partly from the return of his constitutional shyness and partly
from the severity of his exertions). "I hope your foot does not pain you quite so much; be
good enough to lean a little more this way." Poor man, how his arms must have ached! Whilst
I replied somewhat in this fashion, "Thank you, I'm better; I shall soon be able to walk, I
think; this is indeed a lovely country. Don't you find me very heavy?" "I think I could carry
you a good many miles," he said quietly; and then seemed so shocked at such an avowal that
he hardly opened his lips again, and put me down the very first time I asked him, and offered
me his arm with an accession of confusion that made me feel quite awkward myself. Truth to
tell, my ankle was not sprained, only twisted; and when the immediate pain wore off I was pretty
sound again, and managed, with the assistance of my new acquaintance's arm, to make a very
good walk of it. So we plodded on quite sociably towards the Hall, and my friend took leave
of me at the farm with a polite bow and a sort of hesitating manner that most shy men possess,
and which would lead one to infer they have always got something more to say that never is
said. I knew I should be well scolded if I avowed my accident to any of the family; besides,
I did not quite fancy facing all the inquiries as to how I got home, and Cousin Amelia's sneers
about errant damsels and wandering knights; so I stole quietly up to my room, bathed my foot
in eau-de-Cologne, and remained perdue till dinner-time, in despite of repeated messages from
my aunts and the arrival of Cousin John.

People may talk about country pleasures and country duties and all the charms of country life;
but it appears to me that a good many things are done under the titles of pleasure and duty
which belong in reality to neither; and that those who live entirely in the country inflict
on themselves a great variety of unnecessary disagreeables, as they lose a great many of its
chief delights. Of all receipts for weariness commend me to a dinner-party of country neighbours
by daylight--people who know each other just well enough to have opposite interests and secret
jealousies--who arrive ill at ease in their smart dresses, to sit through a protracted meal
with hot servants and forced conversation, till one young lady on her promotion being victimized
at the pianoforte enables them to yawn unobserved; and welcome ten o'clock brings round the
carriage and tipsy coachman, in order that they may enter on their long, dark, dreary drive
home through lanes and by-ways, which is only endurable from the consideration that the annual
ordeal has been accomplished, and that they need not do it again till this time next year.

There was a dinner-party at Dangerfield regularly once a month, and this was the day. Aunt
Horsingham was great on these occasions, astonishing the neighbours as much with her London
dresses as did Cousin Amelia with her London manners. We all assembled a few minutes earlier
than usual in the drawing-room, so as to be ready to receive our guests, and great was the
infliction on poor Aunt Deborah and my humble self. How they trooped in, one after another!
Sir Brian and Lady Banneret and Master Banneret and two Misses Banneret; these were the great
cards of the party; so Lady Horsingham kissed Lady Banneret and the young ladies, and opined
Master Banneret was grown, much to the indignation of that young gentleman, who, being an Oxonian,
of course considered himself a man. Sir Brian was a good-humoured jolly old boy, with a loud
laugh, and stood with his coat-tails lifted and his back to the empty fireplace in perfect
ease and contentment. Not so his lady; first she scrutinized everything Lady Horsingham had
got on, then she took a review of the furniture, and specially marked one faded place in the
carpet. Lastly, she turned a curious and disappointed glance on myself. I accounted for the
latter mark of displeasure by the becoming shade of my gown; I knew it was a pretty one, and
would meet with feminine censure accordingly. The Bannerets were soon followed by Mr. and Mrs.
Plumridge, a newly-married couple, who were fêted accordingly. Mr. Plumridge was a light-haired,
unmeaning-looking individual, partially bald, with a blue coat and white satin neckcloth; his
bride a lively, sarcastic, black-eyed little woman, who must have married him for her own convenience--they
said afterwards she was once a governess; but at all events she held her own handsomely when
alone with the ladies after dinner, and partly from good-humour, partly from an exceedingly
off-hand natural manner, forced even Lady Banneret to be civil to her. Then came the Marmadukes
and the Marygolds, and old Miss Finch in a sedan-chair from the adjoining village, and a goodish-looking
man whose name I never made out, and Mr. Sprigges the curate; and lastly, in a white heat and
a state of utter confusion, my shy acquaintance of the railway and the pointers, who was ushered
in by Lady Horsingham's pompous butler under the style and title of Mr. Haycock. He appeared
to be a great friend of the family; and, much to his own discomfiture, was immediately laid
violent hands on by my aunt and cousin--the former not thinking it necessary to present him
to me, till he offered me his arm to take me in to dinner, when her face of reproval, on his
stammering out he "had met Miss Coventry before," was worth anything, expressive as it was
of shocked propriety and puzzled astonishment.

When you have a secret only known to your two selves, even with a shy man, it is wonderful
how it brings him on. Before the soup was off the table Squire Haycock and I had become wonderfully
good friends. He had hoped "my ankle did not pain me," and I had trusted "his arms did not
ache." He had even gone the length of "vowing" that he would have shot his clumsy retriever
for being the cause of the accident, only he let him off because "if it hadn't been for the
dog----" and here, seeing Cousin Amelia's eye fixed upon us, my companion stopped dead short,
and concealed his blushes in a glass of champagne. Taking courage from that well-iced stimulant,
he reverted to our railway journey in company.

"I knew you again this morning, Miss Coventry, I assure you, a long way off; in fact, I was
going the other way, only, seeing you walking in that lonely part of the down, I feared you
might be frightened" (he was getting bright scarlet again), "and I determined to watch you
at a little distance, and be ready to assist you if you were alarmed by tramps or sheep-dogs
or----"

I thought he was getting on too fast, so I stopped him at once by replying,--

"I am well able to take care of myself, Mr. Haycock, I assure you, and I like best walking
quite alone;" after which I turned my shoulder a little towards him, and completely discomfited
him for the rest of dinner. One great advantage of diffidence in a man is that one can so easily
reduce him to the lowest depths of despondency; but then, on the other hand, he is apt to think
one means to be more cruel than one does, and one is obliged to be kind in proportion to previous
coldness, or the stupid creature breaks away altogether. When the ladies got up to leave the
dining-room, I dropped my handkerchief well under the table, and when it was returned to me
by the Squire, I gave him such a look of gratitude as I knew would bring him back to me in
the evening. Nobody hates flirting so much as myself, but what is one to do shut up in a country-house,
with no earthly thing to occupy or amuse one?

Tea and coffee served but little to produce cordiality amongst the female portion of the guests
after their flight to the drawing-room. Lady Horsingham and Lady Banneret talked apart on a
sofa; they were deep in the merits of their respective preachers and the failings of their
respective maids. Mrs. Marmaduke and Mrs. Marygold, having had a "Book-Club" feud, did not
speak to each other, but communicated through the medium of Miss Finch, whose deafness rendered
this a somewhat unsatisfactory process. Aunt Deborah went to sleep as usual; and I tried the
two Miss Bannerets consecutively, but ascertained that neither would open her lips, at least
in the presence of mamma. At last I found a vacant place by the side of Mrs. Plumridge, and
discovered immediately, with the peculiar freemasonry which I believe men do not possess, that
she was one of my sort. She liked walking, riding, driving, dancing--all that I liked, in short;
and she hated scandal-gossiping, sensible women, morning visits, and worsted-work, for all
of which I confess to an unqualified aversion. We were getting fast friends when the gentlemen
came in from their wine, honest Sir Brian's voice sounding long before he entered the room,
and the worthy gentleman himself rolling in with an unsteady step, partly from incipient gout,
and partly, I fancy, from a good deal of port wine. He took a vacant seat by me almost immediately,
chiefly, I think, because it was the nearest seat; and avowing openly his great regard and
admiration for my neighbour, Mrs. Plumridge, proceeded to make himself agreeable to both of
us in his own way--though I am concerned to state that he trod heavily on my sprained foot,
and spilt the greater part of a cup of coffee over her satin gown. The Squire, whose nerves
for the present were strung above blushing pitch, soon joined our little party; and whilst
the two Miss Bannerets performed an endless duet on Aunt Horsingham's luckless pianoforte,
and their brother, choking in his stiff white neckcloth, turned over the leaves, Sir Brian
bantered Mr. Haycock gracefully on his abstemiousness after dinner, an effort of self-denial
of which no one could accuse him, and vowed, with much laughter, that "Haycock must be in love!
in love, Miss Coventry, don't you think so? A man that always used to take his two bottles
as regularly as myself--I am a foe to excess, ladies, but Haycock's an anchorite, d---- me--a
monk! Haycock! monks mustn't marry, you know!--wouldn't he look well with his feet shaved,
Miss Coventry, and his head bare and a rope round his neck?" Sir Brian was getting confused,
and had slightly transposed the clerical costume to which he alluded; but was quite satisfied
that his little badinage was witty and amusing in the extreme. Indeed, Mrs. Plumridge and I
couldn't help laughing; but poor Squire Haycock's embarrassment was so intense that he ordered
his carriage immediately, and took leave, venturing, however, at the very last, to shake me
by the hand, and braving once again the banter of the inebriated Baronet.

"Stole away," said Sir Brian; "a shy man, Miss Coventry--a shy, diffident man, my friend Haycock,
but true as steel--not a better landlord in the county--excellent neighbour--useful magistrate--good
house--beautiful garden--lots of poultry, and a glass beehive--wants nothing but a wife--order
the carriage, my lady.--Mrs. Plumridge, you must come and see us at Slopperly, and don't forget
to bring Plumridge.--Miss Coventry, you're a charming young lady; mind you come too." So jolly
Sir Brian wished us both a most affectionate good-night, and, shaking Aunt Horsingham violently
by both hands, packed himself into his carriage in a state of high good-humour and confusion.
I have since heard that on his arrival at Slopperly he stoutly refused to get out, declaring
that he preferred to "sit in the carriage whilst they changed horses," and avowing, much to
his old butler's astonishment, his resolution to go "at least one more stage that night."

CHAPTER XI.

I must despair of being able in simple narrative to convey the remotest idea of the dullness
of Dangerfield Hall; but as during my residence there I beguiled the weary hours by keeping
a diary (bound in blue velvet, with brass clasps and a Bramah lock), I have it in my power,
by transcribing a few of its pages, to present to my readers my own impressions of life in
that well-regulated establishment. I put things down just as they happened, with my own reflections,
more or less philosophical, on the events of each day. My literary labours were invariably
carried on after the family had retired for the night; and I may observe that a loose white
dressing-gown, trimmed with Mechlin lace and pink ribbons--one's hair, of course, being "taken
down"--is a costume extremely well adapted to the efforts of composition. I take a day from
the diary at random.

Thursday.--Up at half-past seven; peeped in the glass the instant I was out of bed, and wondered
how Cousin Amelia looks when she wakes. Yellowish, I should think, and by no means captivating,
particularly if she wears a nightcap. I don't care how ugly a woman is, she has no right to
look anything but fresh in the morning; and yet how few possess this advantage! Nothing like
open air and plenty of exercise; saving one's complexion is undoubtedly the very way to spoil
it. Saw Brilliant and White Stockings going to exercise in the Park. What coddles they look
on these fine autumn mornings, covered with clothing! Felt very keen about hunting; the same
feeling always comes on at the fall of the leaf; shouldn't wonder if I could jump a gate, with
my present nerves. Should like once in my life to plant a field of horsemen, and show these
gentlemen how a woman can ride. Interrupted in my daydreams by Lady Horsingham's bell, and
huddled on my things in a tremendous hurry; forced to wash my hands in cold water, which made
the tips of my fingers as red as radishes for the rest of the day. Got down to prayers by half-past
eight, and took Aunt Deborah her tea and toast from the breakfast-table at nine.

Breakfast dull, and most of the party cross: Aunt Horsingham is generally out of humour at
breakfast-time, particularly on Sundays. Cousin Amelia suggested my towels were too coarse:
"they had rubbed a colour into my cheeks like a dairymaid's." John said I looked like a rose--a
tea-rose, he added, as I handed him his cup. Cousin John is getting quite poetical, and decidedly
improved since he left London. I wonder whom he got that letter from that was lying on his
plate when he came down. I am not curious, but I just glanced at the direction, and I am certain
it was in a lady's hand. Not that it's any business of mine; only I should think Miss Molasses
would hardly have the face to write to him. I wonder whether there is anything between John
and Miss Molasses. I asked him, half spitefully, the other day how he could bear to be parted
from her now the season was over; and he seemed so pleased at my taking an interest in the
thing at all that I had no patience to go on with my cross-questioning. I don't think she's
good enough for John, I must confess; but he is easily imposed on by young ladies--as indeed,
for that matter, are the rest of his great thick-headed sex. When breakfast was over and Cousin
Amelia went off as usual to practise her music for an hour or two, I thought I might steal
away for a visit to my favourites in the stable; indeed I saw John at the front door in a hideous
wide-awake, with a long cigar in his mouth. But I was waylaid by Aunt Horsingham; and as these
visits to the stable are strictly forbidden, I was obliged to follow her into the drawing-room,
and resign myself for the whole morning to that dreadful worsted-work, more especially as it
was coming on a drizzling mist, and there was no pretext for my usual walk.

"I am glad to see you getting more sociable, Kate," said Lady Horsingham, in her dry, harsh
voice, as I took a seat beside her and opened my work-basket. "It is never advisable for any
young lady to affect singularity, and I have observed with some concern that your demeanour
on many occasions is very unlike that of the rest of your sex."

I never give in to Aunt Horsingham--after all she's not my own aunt--so I answered as pertly
as ever I could:

"No: you mean I don't spend the morning in looking in the glass and talking evil of my neighbours;
I don't scream when I see a beetle, or go into convulsions because there's a mouse in the room.
I've got two legs, very good legs, Aunt Horsingham--shall I show you them?--and I like to use
them, and to be out of doors amongst the trees and the grass and the daisies, instead of counting
stitches for work that nobody wants or writing letters that nobody reads. I had rather give
Brilliant a good 'bucketing' (Aunt Horsingham shuddered; I knew she would, and used the word
on purpose) over an open heath or a line of grass than go bodkin in a chariot, seven miles
an hour, and both windows up. Thank you, Aunt Horsingham; you would like to make a fine lady
of me--a useless, sickly, lackadaisical being instead of a healthy, active, light-hearted woman.
Much obliged to you; I had rather stay as I am."

"Miss Coventry," said my aunt, who was completely posed by my volubility, and apparently shocked
beyond the power of expression at my opinions--"Miss Coventry," she repeated, "if these are
indeed your sentiments, I must beg--nay, I must insist--on your keeping them to yourself whilst
under this roof.--Amelia, my dear" (to my cousin, who was gliding quietly into the room)--"Amelia,
go back to your music for ten minutes.--I must insist, Miss Coventry, that you do not inoculate
my daughter with these pernicious doctrines--this mistaken view of the whole duties and essentials
of your sex. Do you think men appreciate a woman who, if she had but a beard, would be exactly
like one of themselves? Do you think they like to see their ideal hot and dishevelled, plastered
with mud, and draggled with wet? Do you think they wish her to be strong and independent of
them, and perhaps their superior at those very sports and exercises on which they plume themselves?
Do you think they are to be taken by storm, and, so to speak, bullied into admiration? You're
wrong, Kate, you're wrong; and I believe I am equally wrong to talk to you in this strain,
inasmuch as the admiration of the other sex ought to be the last thing coveted or thought of
by a young person of yours."

"I'm sure, aunt, I don't want the men to admire me," I replied; "but I would not give much
for the admiration of one who could be jealous of me for so paltry a cause as my riding better
than himself; and as for ideals, I don't know much about such things, but I think a man's ideal
may do pretty well what she likes, and he is sure to think everything she does do is perfect.
Besides, I don't see why I should bully him into liking me because I'm fond of the beautiful
'out of doors' instead of the fireside. And courageous women, like courageous men, are generally
a deal more gentle than the timid ones. I've known ladies who would not venture into a carriage
or a boat who could wage a war of words bitterer than the veriest trooper would have at his
command; and I've heard Cousin John say that there is scarcely an instance of a veritable heroine
in history, from Joan of Arc downwards, who was not in her private life as sweet, as gentle,
and as womanly as she was high-couraged and undaunted when the moment came that summoned her
energies to the encounter. Unselfishness is the cause in both cases, you may depend. People
that are always so dreadfully afraid something is going to happen to them think a great deal
more of self than anything else; and the same cause which makes them tremble at imaginary danger
for their own sakes will make them forgetful of real sufferings in which they themselves have
no share. I had rather be a hoyden, Aunt Horsingham, and go on in my own way. I have much more
enjoyment; and, upon my word, I don't think I'm one bit a worse member of society than if I
was the most delicate fine lady that ever fainted away at the overpowering smell of a rose
leaf or the merry peal of a noisy child's laugh."

My aunt lifted up her hands and gave in, for the return of Cousin Amelia from the music-room
effectually prevented further discussion; and we beguiled the time till luncheon by alternate
fits of scandal and work, running through the characters of most of the neighbours within twenty
miles, and completely demolishing the reputation of my friend, as they called her--lively,
sarcastic little Mrs. Plumridge. John was off rabbit-shooting, so of course he did not appear
at that meal so essential to ladies; and after Cousin Amelia, by way of being delicate, had
got through two cutlets, the best part of a chicken, a plateful of rice-pudding, and a large
glass of sherry, I ventured to propose to her that if the afternoon held up we should have a walk.

"I'm not equal to much fatigue," said she, with a languid air and a heavy look about her eyes
which I attributed to the luncheon; "but if you like we'll go to the garden and the hothouses,
and be back in time for a cup of tea at five o'clock."

"Anything to get out of the house," was my reply, and forthwith I rushed upstairs, two steps
at a time, to put on my things; whilst my aunt whispered to her daughter, loud enough for me
to hear, "She really ought to have been a man, Emmy; did you ever see such a hoyden in your life?"

It was pleasant to get out even into that formal garden. The day was soft and misty, such as
one often finds it towards the close of autumn--dark without being chill--and the withered
leaves strewed the earth in all the beauty of wholesome natural decay. Autumn makes some people
miserable; I confess it is the time of year that I like best. Spring makes me cross if it's
bad weather, and melancholy if it's fine. Summer is very enjoyable certainly, but it has a
luxuriance of splendour that weighs down my spirits; and in those glorious hot, dreamy haymaking
days I seem unable to identify myself sufficiently with all the beauty around me, and to pine
for I don't exactly know what. Winter is charming when it don't freeze, with its early candle-light
and long evenings; but autumn combines everything that to me is most delightful--the joys of
reality and the pleasures of anticipation. Cousin Amelia don't think so at all.

"A nasty raw day, Kate," she remarked as we emerged from the hothouse into the moist, heavy
air. "How I hate the country! except whilst the strawberries are ripe. Let's go back to the
house, and read with our feet on the fender till tea-time."

"Not yet, Emmy," I pleaded, for I really pined for a good walk; "let's go on the highroad as
far as the milestone--it's market day at Muddlebury, and we shall see the tipsy farmers riding
home and the carriers' carts with their queer-looking loads; besides, think what a colour you'll
have for dinner. Come on, there's a dear!"

The last argument was unanswerable; and Cousin Amelia putting her best foot foremost, we soon
cleared the garden and the approach, and emerged on the highroad three miles from Muddlebury,
and well out of the sight of the windows of Dangerfield Hall. As we rose the hill, on the top
of which is perched the well-known milestone, and my cousin began already to complain of fatigue,
the sound of hoofs behind us caused us both to stop and look round.

"It's cavalry," said Amelia, who jumps rather rapidly to conclusions, and is no judge of a horse.

"It's a stud," was my reply; "somebody coming to hunt with 'the Heavy-top.' Let's stand in
this gateway and see them pass." We took up a position accordingly; and if I felt keen about
the commencement of the season previously, how much more so did I become to watch the string
of gallant well-bred horses now jogging quietly towards us with all the paraphernalia and accessories
of the chase!

Two, four, six, and a hack, all clothed and hooded, and packed for travelling. Such a chestnut
in the van, with a minute boy on him, who cannot have weighed four stone; strong, flat, sinewy
legs (the chestnut's, not the boy's), hocks and thighs clean, full, and muscular as Brilliant's,
only twice the size; a long, square tail, and a wicked eye. How I should like to ride that
chestnut! Then a brown and two bays, one of the latter scarcely big enough for a hunter, to
my fancy, but apparently as thoroughbred as Eclipse; then a gray, who seemed to have a strong
objection to being led, and who held back and dragged at his rein in a most provoking manner;
and lastly, by the side of a brown hack that I fancied I had seen before, a beautiful black
horse, the very impersonation of strength, symmetry, courage, speed, and all that a horse should
be.

"Ask the groom whose they are," whispered Amelia as he went by. "I don't quite like to speak
to him; he looks an impudent fellow with those dark whiskers."

I should like to see the whiskers that would frighten me; so I stepped boldly out into the
road, and accosted him at once.

"Whose horses are those, my man?" I asked, with my most commanding air.

"Captain Lovell's, miss," was the reply. My heart jumped into my mouth, and you might have
knocked me down with a feather.

"Captain Lovell's!" exclaimed Amelia; "why, that's your old flirt, Kate. I see it all now."
But I hardly heard her, and when I looked up the horses were a mile off, and we were retracing
our steps towards Dangerfield Hall.

What a happy day this has been, and how unpromising was its beginning! And yet I don't know
why I should have been so happy. After all, there is nothing extraordinary in Captain Lovell's
sending down a stud of horses to hunt with so favourite a pack as "the Heavy-top" hounds. I
wish I had summoned courage to ask the man when his master was coming and where he was going
to stay; but I really couldn't do it--no, not if my life depended on it. All the way home Cousin
Amelia laughed and sneered and chattered, and once she acknowledged I was "the best-tempered
girl in the world;" but I am sure I have not an idea why I deserve this character. Her words
fell perfectly unheeded on my ear. I was glad to get to the solitude of my own room, when it
was time to dress for dinner, that I might have the luxury, if it was only for five minutes,
of thinking undisturbed. But there was Aunt Deborah to be attended to; for poor Aunt Deborah,
I am sorry to say, is by no means well. And Gertrude came in "to do my hair;" and then the
dinner-bell rang, and the wearisome meal, and the long evening dragged on in their accustomed
monotony. But I did not find it as dull as usual, though I was more rejoiced than ever when
the hand-candles came and we were dismissed to go to bed.

And now they are all fast asleep, and I can sit at my open window and think, think, think as
much as I like. What a lovely night it is! The mist has cleared off, and the moat is glistening
in the moonlight, and the old trees are silvered over and blackened alternately by its beams;
the church tower stands out massively against the sky. How dark the old belfry looks on such
a night as this, contrasting with the white tombstones in the churchyard, and the slated roof
shimmering above the aisle! There is a faint breeze sighing amongst the few remaining leaves,
now rising into a pleading whisper, now dying away with a sad, unearthly moan. The deer are
moving restlessly about the Park, now standing out in bold relief on some open space brightened
by the moonlight, now flitting like spectres athwart the shade. Everything breathes of romance
and illusion; and I do believe it is very bad for one to be watching here, dreaming wide awake,
instead of snoring healthily in bed. I wonder what he is about at this moment. Perhaps smoking
a cigar out of doors, and enjoying this beautiful night. I wonder what he is thinking of. Perhaps,
after all, he's stewed up in some lamplit drawing-room talking nonsense to Lady Scapegrace
and Mrs. Lumley, or playing that odious whist at his club. Well, I suppose I may as well go
to bed. One more look into the night, and then--hark! what is it? how beautiful, how charming!
Distant music from the wood at the low end of the Park. The deer are all listening, and now
they troop down towards the noise in scores. How softly it dies away and rises again! 'Tis
a cornet-à-piston, I think, and though not very skilfully played it sounds heavenly by moonlight.
I never thought that old air of "You'll Remember Me" half so beautiful before. Who can it be?
I have never heard it since I came here. It can't be Captain Lovell's groom; it's not quite
impossible it might be Captain Lovell himself. Ah, if I thought that! Well, it has ceased now.
I may as well go to bed. What a happy day this has been, and what dreams I shall have!

CHAPTER XII.

Friday.--This has been an eventful day. I thought somehow it would be so; at all events, the
first day's hunting is always an era to me--so when I came down to breakfast in my riding-habit,
and braved the cold glances of my aunt and the sarcasms of my cousin, I was prepared for a
certain amount of excitement, although, I confess, I did not bargain for quite so much as I got.

"You'll enjoy yourself to-day, I trust, Miss Coventry," said Aunt Horsingham, looking as black
as thunder.

"Mind you don't get a fall," observed Cousin Amelia with a sneer; but I cared little for their
remarks and remonstrances. White Stockings was at the door, Cousin John ready to lift me into
my saddle, and I envied no mortal woman on earth, no not our gracious Queen upon the throne,
when I found myself fairly mounted, and jogging gently down the park in all the delightful
anticipation of a good day's sport. I think I would rather have ridden Brilliant of the two,
but John suggested that the country was cramped and sticky, with small fields and blind fences.
Now, White Stockings is an animal of great circumspection, and allows no earthly consideration
to hurry him. He is, moreover, as strong as a dray-horse, and as handy, so John declares, "as
a fiddle." To him, therefore, was entrusted the honour of carrying me on my first appearance
with the Heavy-top hounds. The meet was at no great distance from Dangerfield Hall, and being
the beginning of the season, and a favourite place, there was a considerable muster of the
élite of the county, and a goodly show of very respectable horses to grace the covert side.
As we rode up to the mounted assemblage, I perceived, by the glance of curiosity, not to say
admiration, directed at myself and White Stockings, that ladies were unusual visitors in that
field, and that the Heavy-top gentlemen were not prepared to be cut down, at all events by
a woman. Cousin John seems to know them all and to be a universal favourite.

"Who's the lady, John, my boy?" whispered a fat squire in a purple garment, with a face to
match; "good seat on a horse, eh? rides like a bird, I'll warrant her." I did not catch John's
answer; but the corpulent sportsman nodded, and smiled, and winked, and wheezed out, "Lucky
dog--pretty cousin--double harness."

I don't know what he meant; but that it was something intensely ludicrous I gather from his
nearly choking with laughter at his own concluding observation, though John blushed and looked
rather like a fool.

"Who's that girl on the chestnut?" I again heard asked by a slang-looking man with red whiskers
meeting under his chin; "looks like a larker--I must get introduced to her," added the conceited
brute. How I hated him! If he had ventured to speak to me, I really think I could have struck
him over the face with my riding-whip.

"I told you it would not be long before we met, Miss Coventry," said a well-known voice beside
me; and turning round, I shook hands with Captain Lovell; and I am ashamed to confess, shook
all over into the bargain. I am always a little nervous the first day of the season. How well
he looked in his red coat and neat appointments, with his graceful seat upon a horse, and so
high-bred, amongst all the country squires and jolly yeomen that surrounded us! He had more
colour too than when in London, and altogether I thought I had never seen him looking so handsome.
The chestnut with the wicked eye, showing off his fine shape, now divested of clothing, curvetted
and bent to his rider's hand as if he thoroughly enjoyed that light restraining touch: the
pair looked what the gentlemen call "all over like going," and I am sure one of them thought
so too.

"I saw your horses on their way to Muddlebury yesterday," I at length found courage to say.
"Are you going to hunt all the season with the Heavy-top?"

"How long do you stay at Dangerfield?" was the counter question from Frank; "you see I know
the name of the place already; I believe I could find my way now about the Park; very picturesque
it is too by night, Miss Coventry. Do you like music by moonlight?"

"Not if it's played out of tune," I answered with a laugh and a blush; but just then Squire
Haycock, whom I scarcely knew in his hunting costume, rode up to us, and begged as a personal
favour to himself that we would accompany him to a particular point, from which he could ensure
us a good start if the fox went away--his face becoming scarlet as he expressed a hope "Miss
Coventry would not allow her fondness for the chase to lead her into unnecessary danger;" whilst
Frank looked at him with a half-amused, half-puzzled expression that seemed to say, "What a
queer creature you are; and what the deuce can that matter to you?"

I wonder why people always want to oblige you when you don't want to be obliged; "too civil
by half" is much more in the way than "not half civil enough." So we rode on with Squire Haycock,
and took up a position at the end of the wood that commanded a view of the whole proceedings,
and, as Frank whispered to me, was "the likeliest place in the world if we wanted to head the fox."

The Heavy-top hounds are an establishment such as, I am given to understand, is not usually
kept in Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, and other so-called "flying counties." I like to
gain all the information I can--Cousin John calls this thirst for knowledge, "female curiosity"--and
gather from him that the Heavy-top consists of twenty-two couples of hunting hounds, and that
the whole twenty-two come out three times a week during the season. I don't see why they shouldn't,
I'm sure; they look very fat, and remind me of the otter hounds poor Uncle Horace used to keep
when I was a child. He (that's my oracle, Cousin John) further adds that they are remarkably
"steady"--which is more than can be said of their huntsman, who is constantly drunk--and that
they consume a vast quantity of "flesh," which, far from being a meritorious, appears to me
a disgusting tendency. They are capital "line-hunters," so says John; a "line-hunter," I imagine,
is a hound that keeps snuffing about under the horses' feet, and must be a most useful auxiliary,
when, as is often the case, the sportsmen are standing on the identical spot where the fox
has crossed. He considers them a very "killing" pack, not in manners or appearance certainly,
but in perseverance and undying determination. Their huntsman is what is called "one of the
old sort." If this is a correct description, I can only say that "the old sort" must have worn
the brownest and shabbiest of boots, the oldest of coats, and the greasiest of caps; must have
smelt of brandy on all occasions, and lived in a besotted state of general confusion, vibrating
between "delirium audacious" and "delirium tremens." They have, however, a certain whip called
"Will," who appears to me to do all the work, and to keep everything right. When old Tippler
drinks himself to death (a casualty which must shortly happen), Will is pretty sure to succeed
him--an event which I fancy will greatly add to the efficiency of the Heavy-top hounds. To
crown all, Frank Lovell dubs the whole thing "slow;" but I have remarked gentlemen make use
of this epithet to convey their disapproval of that which they cannot find any positive fault
with--just as we ladies call a woman "bad style" when we have nothing else to say in her disparagement.

"Gone away!" exclaims Squire Haycock, lifting his cap high above his red head; "yonder he goes!
Don't you see him, Miss Coventry, now whisking under the gate?"

"Forward, forward!" holloas Frank, giving vent to his excitement in one of those prolonged
screams that proclaim how the astonished sportsman has actually seen the fox with his own eyes.
The next instant he is through the hand-gate at the end of the ride, and rising in his stirrups,
with the wicked chestnut held hard by the head, is speeding away over the adjoining pasture,
alongside of the two or three couples of leading hounds that have just emerged from the covert.
Ah! we are all forgotten now; women, children, everything is lost in that first delirious five
minutes when the hounds are really away. Frank was gazing at me a minute ago as if his very
life was at my disposal, and now he is speeding away a field ahead of me, and don't care whether
I break my neck following him or not. But this is no time for such thoughts as these; the drunken
huntsman is sounding his horn in our rear. Will, the whip, cap in hand, is bringing up the
body of the pack. Squire Haycock holds the gate open for me to pass, Cousin John goes by me
like a flash of lightning; White Stockings with a loose rein, submits to be kicked along at
any pace I like to ask him. The fence at the end of the field is nothing; I shall go exactly
where Frank did. My blood thrills with ecstasy in my veins: moment of moments! I have got a
capital start, and we are in for a run.

As I sit here in my armchair and dressing-gown, I see the whole panorama of to-day passing
once more before my eyes. I see that dark, wet, ploughed field, with the white hounds slipping
noiselessly over its furrowed surface. I can almost perceive the fresh, wholesome smell of
the newly-turned earth. I see the ragged, overgrown, straggling fence at the far end, glistening
with morning dew, and green with formidable briers. I see Frank Lovell's chestnut rising at
the weakest place, the rider sitting well back, his spurs and stirrup-irons shining in the
sun; I see Squire Haycock's square scarlet back, as he diverges to a well-known corner for
some friendly egress; I hear Cousin John's voice shouting, "Give him his head, Kate!" As White
Stockings and I rapidly approach the leap, my horse relapses of his own accord into a trot,
points his small ears, crashes into the very middle of the fence, and just as I give myself
up for lost, makes a second bound that settles me once more in the saddle, and lands gallantly
in the adjoining field, Frank looking back over his shoulder in evident anxiety and admiration,
whilst John's cheery voice, with its "Bravo, Kate!" rings in my delighted ears. We three are
now nearest the hounds, a long strip of rushy meadow-land before us, the pack streaming along
the side of a high, thick hedge that bounds it on our left; the south wind fans my face and
lifts my hair as I slacken my horse's rein and urge him to his speed. I am alongside of Frank.
I could ride anywhere now, or do anything. I pass him with a smile and a jest. I am the foremost
with the chase. What is ten years of common life, one's feet upon the fender, compared to five
such golden minutes as these? The hounds stop suddenly, and after scattering and spreading
themselves into the form of an open fan, look up in my face with an air of mute bewilderment.
The huntsman and the field come up, the gentlemen in a high state of delight and confusion;
but Mr. Tippler in the worst of humours, and muttering as he trots off to a corner of the meadow
with the pack about his horse's heels,--

"Rode 'em slap off the scent--drove 'em to a check--wish she was at home and abed and asleep,
and be d----d to her!"

A grim old lady who has but one eye, and answers to the name of "Jezebel," has threaded the
fence, and proclaims in anything but a sweet voice to her comrades, that she has discovered
the line of our fox. They join her in an instant, down go their heads in concert, and away
we all speed again, through an open gate, across a wide common, into a strip of plantation,
over a stile and foot-board that leads out of it, and I find myself once more following Captain
Lovell with Cousin John alongside of me, and all the rest far, far behind. This is indeed glorious.
I should like it to go on till dinnertime. How I hope we shan't kill the fox!

"Take hold of his head, Kate," says my cousin, whose horse has just blundered on to his nose
through a gap. "Even White Stockings won't last for ever, and this is going to be something
out of the common."

"Forward!" is my reply as I point with my whip towards the lessening pack, now a whole field
ahead of us. "Forward!" If we hadn't been going such a pace I could have sung for joy.

There is a line of pollarded willow trees down in that hollow, and the hounds have already
left these behind them; they are rising the opposite ground. Again Frank Lovell looks anxiously
back at me, but makes no sign.

"We must have it, Kate!" says John; "there's your best place, under the tree; send him at it
as hard as he can lay legs to the ground."

I ply my whip and loosen my reins in vain. White Stockings stops dead short, and lowers his
nose to the water, as if he wanted to drink; all of a sudden the stream is behind me, and with
a flounder and a struggle we are safe over the brook. Not so Cousin John; I see him on his
legs on the bank, with his horse's head lying helplessly between his feet, the rest of that
valuable animal being completely submerged.

"Go along, Kate!" he shouts encouragingly, and again I speed after Frank Lovell, who is by
this time nearly a quarter of a mile ahead of me, and at least that distance behind the hounds.
White Stockings is going very pleasantly, but the ground is now entirely on the rise, and he
indulges occasionally in a trot without any hint on my part; the fences fortunately get weaker
and weaker; the fields are covered with stones, and are light, good galloping enough, but the
rise gets steeper every yard; round hills are closing in about us; we are now on the Downs,
and the pack is still fleeting ahead, like a body of hounds in a dream, every moment increasing
their distance from us, and making them more and more indistinct. Frank Lovell disappears over
the brow of that hill, and I urge White Stockings to overtake my only companion. He don't seem
to go much faster for all that. I strike him once or twice with my light riding-whip; I shake
my reins, and he comes back into a trot; I rise in my stirrup and rouse his energies in every
way I can think of. I am afraid he must be ill, the trot degenerates to a jog, a walk; he carries
his head further out from him than is his wont, and treats curb and snaffle with a like disregard
and callousness of mouth. Now he stops altogether, and catching a side view of his head his
eye appears to me more prominent than usual, and the whole animal seems changed, till I can
hardly fancy it is my own horse. I get a little frightened now, and look round for assistance.
I am quite alone. Hounds, horsemen, all have disappeared; the wide, dreary, solitary Downs
stretch around me, and I begin to have misgivings as to how I am to get back to Dangerfield
Hall. Cousin John has explained it all to me since.

"Nothing could be simpler, Kate," said he this evening when I handed him his tea; "you stopped
your horse. If ladies will go in front with a loose rein for five-and-forty minutes, 'riding
jealous' of such a first-rate performer as Frank Lovell, it is not an unlikely thing to happen.
If you could have lasted ten minutes longer, you would have seen them kill their fox. Frank
was the only one there, but he assures me he could not have gone another hundred yards. Never
mind, Kate, better luck next time!"

Well, to return to my day. After a while White Stockings began to recover himself. I'm sure
I didn't know what to do with him. I got off, and loosened his girths as well as I could, and
turned his head to the wind, and wiped his poor nose with my pocket-handkerchief. I hadn't
any eau-de-Cologne, and if I had it might not have done him much good. At last he got better,
and I got on again (all my life I've been used to mounting and dismounting without assistance).
Thinking downhill must be the way home, downhill I turned him, and proceeded slowly on, now
running over in my own mind the glorious hour I had just spent, now wondering whether I should
be lost and have to sleep amongst the Downs; and anon coming back to the old subject, and resolving
that hunting was the only thing to live for, and that for the future I would devote my whole
time and energies to that pursuit. At last I got into a steep chalky lane, and at a turn a
little farther on espied to my great relief a red-coated back jogging leisurely home. White
Stockings pricked his ears and mended his pace, so I soon overtook the returning sportsman,
who proved to be no other than Squire Haycock, thrown out like the rest of the Heavy-top gentlemen,
and only too happy to take care of me, and show me the shortest way (eleven miles as the crow
flies) back to Dangerfield Hall.

We jogged on amicably enough, the Squire complimenting me much on my prowess, and not half
so shy as usual--very often the case with a diffident man when on horseback. We were forced
to go very slow, both our horses being pretty well tired; and to make matters better, we were
caught in a tremendous hailstorm about two miles from home, just as it was getting dark, and
close to the spot where our respective roads diverged. I could not possibly miss mine, as it
was perfectly straight. Ah! that hailstorm has a deal to answer for. We were forced to turn
through a hand-gate, and take shelter in a friendly wood. What a ridiculous position, pitch
dark, pelting with rain, an elderly gentleman and a young lady on horseback under a fir tree.
The Squire had been getting more incoherent for some time; I couldn't think what he was driving at.

"You like our country, Miss Coventry; fine climate, excellent soil, nice and dry for ladies?"

I willingly subscribed to all these advantages.

"Good neighbourhood," added the Squire; "capital hunting, charming rides, wonderful scenery
for sketching. Do you think you could live in this part of the world?"

I thought I could if I was to try.

"You expressed your approbation of my house, Miss Coventry," the Squire proceeded, with his
hand on my horse's neck; "do you think--I mean--should you consider--or rather I should say,
is there any alteration you would suggest--anything in my power--if you would condescend to
ride over any afternoon; may I consider you will so far favour me?"

I said "I should be delighted, but that it had left off raining, and it was time for us to
get home."

"One word, Miss Coventry," pleaded the Squire with a shaking voice. "Have I your permission
to call upon Lady Horsingham to-morrow?"

I said I thought my aunt would be at home, and expressed my conviction that she would be delighted
to see him, and I wished him good-bye.

"Good-bye, Miss Coventry, good-bye," said the Squire, shaking hands with a squeeze that crushed
my favourite ring into my prettiest finger; "you have made me the happiest of men--good-bye!"

I saw it all in an instant, just as I see it now. The Squire means to propose for me to-morrow,
and he thinks I have accepted him. What shall I do? Mrs. Haycock--Kate Haycock--Catherine Haycock.
No, I can't make it look well, write it how I will; and then, to vow never to think of any
one else; I suppose I mightn't even speak to Frank. Never, no, never; but what a scrape I have
got into, and how I wish to-morrow was over!

CHAPTER XIII.

My diary continued,--

Saturday.--Well, it is over at last; and upon my word I begin to think I am capable of anything
after all I have got through to-day since breakfast. Scarcely had I finished the slice of toast
and single cup of tea that constitute my morning meal, before I heard the tramp of a horse
on the gravel in front of the house, followed by the ominous sound of the door-bell. I have
remarked that in all country families a ring at the door-bell brings everybody's heart into
everybody's mouth. Aunt Horsingham, brooding over the teapot as usual, had been in her worst
of humours ever since she came down, and tried to look as if no bell that ever was cast had
power to move her grim resolve.

"A message by electric telegraph," exclaimed Cousin Amelia, who is always anticipating some
catastrophe; "no visitor would ever call at such a time."

"Unless he came to propose for one of us," suggested John, who was carving a ham at the side-table.

"Some one on business for me, probably," remarked Aunt Horsingham, drawing herself up and looking
more stately than usual.

"Mr. Haycock!" announced the butler, throwing open the door with a flourish; and while all
our untimely visitor's preparations, such as wiping his shoes, arranging his dress, etc., were
distinctly audible outside, we looked at each other in mute astonishment, and I own I did feel
the guilty one amongst the party.

The Squire made his entrance in a state of intense trepidation. Having been forcibly deprived
of his white hat in the hall, he had nothing but natural means to resort to for concealment
of his confusion. Had it not been for an enormous silk handkerchief (white spots on a yellow
ground) with which he blew his nose and wiped his brow at short and startling intervals his
condition would have been pitiable in the extreme. The "Squire's" dress too was of a more florid
style than is usual in these days of sad-coloured attire. A bright blue neckcloth, well starched,
and of great depth and volume; a buff waistcoat, with massive gilt buttons; a grass-green riding-coat
of peculiar shape and somewhat scanty material; white cord trousers, York tan gaiters, and
enormous double-soled shooting-shoes, pierced and strapped, and clamped and hobnailed, completing
a tout ensemble that almost upset my aunt's gravity, and made me, nervous as I felt, stuff
my pocket-handkerchief into my mouth that I might not laugh outright.

"Fine morning, Lady Horsingham," observed the Squire, as if he had come all that distance at
this early hour on purpose to impart so valuable a piece of information--"fine morning, but
cold," he repeated, rubbing his hands together though the perspiration stood on his brow. "I
don't recollect a much finer morning at this time of year," he resumed, addressing Cousin John
after a pause, during which he had ceremoniously shaken hands with each of us in succession.

"Will you have some breakfast?" asked Lady Horsingham, whose cold and formal demeanour contrasted
strangely with the nervous excitement of her visitor.

"No, thank you--if you please," answered the Squire in a breath. "I breakfasted before I left
home. Early hours, Lady Horsingham--I think your ladyship approves of early hours--but I'll
ask for a cup of tea, if you please." So he sat down to a weak cup of lukewarm tea with much
assumed gusto and satisfaction.

It was now time for Cousin Amelia to turn her battery on the Squire; so she presently attacked
him about his poultry and his garden and his farm, the honest gentleman's absent and inconsequent
replies causing my aunt and John to regard him with silent astonishment, as one who was rapidly
taking leave of his senses; whilst I who knew, or at least guessed, the cause of his extraordinary
behaviour began heartily to wish myself back in Lowndes Street, and to wonder how this absurd
scene was going to end.

"Your dahlias must have suffered dreadfully from these early frosts," said Cousin Amelia, shaking
her ringlets at the poor man in what she fancies her most bewitching style.

"Beautifully," was the bewildered reply, "particularly the shorthorns."

"You never sent us over the Alderney calf you promised, Mr. Haycock," pursued the lady, now
adroitly changing her ground. "I begin to think you are not to be depended on."

"You do me injustice, Miss Horsingham; indeed you do," broke out the Squire in a white heat
and with a deprecating glance at me. "I assure you I sent over a very fine cutting, with a
pot and everything, directions for matting it in winter and transplanting after a year. If
you never got it I'll discharge my gardener; I will, upon my word."

"I have got such a Cochin China to show you," persisted his tormentor, determined to renew
the charge. "When you've finished breakfast I'll take you to the poultry-yard if you like."

"Delighted," replied the Squire, looking ruefully around him as if he meditated instant flight--"delighted,
I'm sure; but they haven't flowered well this year. I'll teach you how to bud them if you like;
but you're aware, Miss Horsingham, that they've no smell."

John could stand it no longer, and was forced to bolt out of the room. My aunt too rose from
the table with something approaching a smile; and the Squire, screwing his courage to the sticking-place,
was following her into the drawing-room, evidently for a private interview, when Cousin Amelia,
who seemed to have made up her mind to take bodily possession of him, hurried the visitor off
to the billiard-room, there to engage in a match which would probably last till luncheon-time.
I never saw anything so hopeless as the expression of the victim's countenance whilst suffering
himself to be thus led into captivity. He did summon courage to entreat "Miss Coventry to come
and mark"--a favour which, notwithstanding my cousin's black looks, I really had not the heart
to refuse him.

Game after game they played, the gentleman apparently abandoning himself to his fate. Sprawling
over the table, making the most ridiculous blunders in counting, missing the most palpable
of cannons, and failing to effect the easiest of hazards; the lady brandishing her mace in
the most becoming attitudes, drooping her long hair over the cushions, and displaying the whiteness
of her hand and slender symmetry of her fingers, as she requested her astonished adversary
to teach her "how to make a bridge," or "pocket the red," or "screw it off the white," and
lisped out "how hard it was to be disappointed by that provoking kiss!" The Squire made one
or two futile attempts to engage me in a game, but Cousin Amelia was determined to have him
all to herself; and as it was getting near the time at which I take Aunt Deborah her broth--for
poor Aunt Deborah, I am sorry to say, is very ill in bed--I made my escape, and as I ran upstairs
heard the billiard-room bell ring, and Squire Haycock summon up courage to "know if Lady Horsingham
was at leisure, as he wished to see her for five minutes alone in the drawing-room."

People may say what they like about superstition and credulity and old women's tales, but I
have faith in presentiments. Didn't I get up from my work and walk to the window at least a
dozen times to watch for Cousin John coming home that wet day two years ago when he broke his
leg with the harriers, and yet he had only gone out for a morning's canter on the best horse
he ever had in his life? Didn't I feel for eight-and-forty hours as if something too delightful
was going to happen to me the week that Brilliant was bought and sent home, looking like an
angel in a horse's skin? That reminds me I never go to see him now; I hope I am not inconstant
to my old friends. And what was it but a presentiment that made my heart beat and my knees
knock together when I entered my own room to-day before luncheon and saw a brown paper parcel
on the table, addressed, evidently by the shop people, to "Miss Coventry, Dangerfield Hall"?
How my fingers trembled as I untied the thread and unfolded the paper; after all, it was nothing
but a packet of worsteds! To be sure, I hadn't ordered any worsteds, but there might possibly
be a note to explain; so I shook every skein carefully, and turned the covering inside out,
that the document, if there should be one, might not escape my vigilance. How could my presentiments
deceive me? Of course there was a note--after all, where was the harm? Captain Lovell had most
politely sent me all these worsteds for a cushion I had once talked about working, and very
naturally had enclosed a note to say so; and nothing to my mind could be kinder or more welcome
than the contents. I am not going to say what they are, of course; though for that matter I
easily could, since I have got the note by me at this moment, and have read it over to-day
besides more than once. After all, there is nothing like a letter. Who does not remember the
first letter received in one's childish days, written in a fair round text for childish eyes,
or perhaps even printed by the kind and painstaking correspondent for the little dunce of a
recipient. Who has not slept with such a letter carefully hoarded away under the pillow, that
morning's first light might give positive assurance of the actual existence of our treasure.
Nor is the little urchin the only glad supporter of our admirable postal institutions. Manly
eyes moisten with tears of joy over those faint delicate lines traced by her hand whose gentle
influence has found the one soft place. Woman hides away in her bosom, close to her loving
heart, the precious scrap which assures her, visibly, tangibly, unerringly, that he is hers
and hers alone. Words may deceive, scenes of bliss pass away like a dream. Though ever present
to the mind it requires an effort to disentangle the realities of memory from the illusions
of imagination; but a letter is proof positive; there it is in black and white. You may read
it again and again; you may kiss it as often as you please; you may prize it and study it and
pore over it, and find a new meaning in every fresh perusal, a hidden interpretation for every
magic word. Nothing can unsay it, nothing can deprive you of it; only don't forget to lock
it up carefully, and mind you don't go leaving about your keys.

I had hardly read my note over a second time before Cousin Amelia bounced into the room without
knocking. I should have locked the door had I known she was coming; as it was, I had only time
to pop the note into my dress (the seal made a great scratch just below my neck) before she
was upon me, and throwing herself into my arms with a most unusual excess of affections exclaimed,--

"Give me joy, Kate--give me joy--he's gone to mamma--he's in the drawing-room with her now--O
Kate, what shall I do?"

"My dear Amelia," I exclaimed, as the delightful thought flashed across me that, after all,
the Squire's visit might have been for my cousin, though I must say I wondered at his taste,
"am I to congratulate you on being Mrs. Haycock? I do indeed from my heart. I am sure he is
an excellent, amiable man, and will make you a capital husband."

"That he will!" exclaimed Cousin Amelia; "and such a nice place and gardens, and a very good
fortune too. Upon my word, Kate, I begin to think I'm a lucky girl, though to be sure with
my advantages I might expect to make a good match. He's not so old, Kate, after all; at least
not so old as he looks; and he's very good-tempered, I know, because his servants say so. I
shall alter that tumble-down house of his, and new-furnish the drawing-room. Of course he'll
take me to London for two or three months every year in the season. I wonder if he knows about
Mr. Johnson--not that I ever cared for him--and, of course, a poor curate like that one couldn't
think of it. Do you know, Kate, I thought his manner was very odd the other day when he dined
here; though he sat next you he kept looking at me, and I remarked once that he coloured up,
oh! so red. Poor fellow, I see it all now. Kate, you shall be one of my bridesmaids--perhaps
it will be your turn to be a bride some of these days; who knows!"

Just then Gertrude tapped at the door.

"Miss Coventry, if you please, her ladyship wishes to see you in the drawing-room."

My cousin's face fell several inches.

"Some mistake, Gertrude," she exclaimed. "It's me isn't it, that mamma wants?"

"Her ladyship bid me tell Miss Kate she wished to see her immediately," was my maid's reply;
so I tripped downstairs with a beating heart, and crossed the hall just in time to see Squire
Haycock riding leisurely away from the house (though it was bitter cold and a hard frost, the
first of the season), and looking up at the window, doubtless in hopes of an encouraging wave
from the white handkerchief of his fiancée presumptive.

Short as was the interval between my own door and that of the drawing-room I had time to run
over in my mind the whole advantages and disadvantages of the flattering proposal which I was
now convinced had been made on my behalf. If I became Mrs. Haycock (and I saw clearly that
I had not mistaken the Squire's meaning on our return from hunting), I should be at the head
of a handsome establishment, should have a good-tempered, easy-going, pleasant husband, who
would let me do just what I liked and hunt to my heart's content; should live in the country,
and look after the poor, and feed hens and chickens, and sink down comfortably into a contented
old age. I need not separate from Aunt Deborah, who would never be able to do without me; and
I might, I am sure, turn the Squire with the greatest ease round my little finger. But then
there certainly were great objections. I could have got over the colour of his hair, though
a red head opposite me every morning would undoubtedly be a trial; but the freckles! No, I
do not think I could do my duty as a wife by a man so dreadfully freckled. I'm certain I couldn't
love him; and if I didn't love him I oughtn't to marry him, and I thought of the sad, sad tale
of Lucy, Lady Horsingham, whose ghost was now in the nightly habit of haunting Dangerfield
Hall. The struggles that poor thing must have gone through, the leaden hours of dull, torpid
misery, the agonizing moments of acute remorse, the perpetual spirit-wearing conflict between
duty and inclination, much to the discomfiture of the former; and the haunting face of Cousin
Edward continually rising on that heated imagination, pleading, reproaching, suing till she
loved him, if possibly more madly in his absence than when he was by her side. I too was beginning
to have a "Cousin Edward" of my own; Frank Lovell's image was far too often present in my mind.
I did not choose to confess to myself how much I liked him; but the more I reflected on Mr.
Haycock's proposal the more I felt how impossible it would be never to think of Frank any more.

"No!" I said inwardly, with my hand on the drawing-room door, "I will not give him up. I have
his note even now in my bosom; he cares for me, at any rate. I am happier to-day than I have
been for months, and I will not go and destroy it all with my own hand." I opened the door,
and found myself in the formidable presence of Aunt Horsingham.

Her ladyship looked colder and more reserved, if possible, than ever. She motioned me stiffly
to take a chair, and plunged at once into the subject in her dry, measured tones.

"Before I congratulate you, Kate," she began, "on such an unlooked-for piece of good fortune
as has just come to my knowledge, I am bound to confess, much to my astonishment----"

"Thank you, aunt," I put in; "that's complimentary, at any rate."

"I should wish to say a few words," proceeded my aunt, without heeding the interruption, "on
the duties which will now devolve upon you, and the line of conduct which I should advise you
to pursue in your new sphere. These hoydenish manners, these ridiculous expeditions, these
scampers all over the country, must be renounced forthwith. Unbecoming as they are in a young
unmarried female, a much stricter sense of decorum, a vastly different repose and reserve of
manner, are absolutely essential in a wife; and it is as a wife, Kate, that I am now addressing
you."

"A wife, aunt!" I exclaimed; "whose, I should like to know?"

"This is an ill-chosen time for jesting, Kate," said my aunt with a frown. "I cannot congratulate
you on your good taste in turning so important a subject into ridicule. Mr. Haycock has proposed
to you; you have accepted him. Whilst poor Deborah is so ill I am your natural guardian, and
he has with great propriety requested my consent; although, in the agitation very natural to
a man so circumstanced," added my aunt, smothering a smile, "it was with some difficulty that
I made out exactly what he meant."

"He never proposed to me; I never accepted him," I broke in, breathless with agitation. "I
never will be his wife, aunt; you had no right to tell him so. Write to him immediately--send
a man off on horseback to overtake him. I'll put my bonnet on this instant, and walk every
mile of the way myself. He's a true-hearted gentleman, and I won't have him made a fool of."
I walked up and down the room--I looked Aunt Horsingham full in the face; she was quite cowed
by my vehemence. I felt I was mistress now, while the excitement lasted, and she gave in; she
even wrote a note to the Squire at my dictation--she dispatched it by a special messenger--she
did everything I told her, and never so much as ventured on remonstrance or reproach; but she
will never forgive me to her dying hour. There is no victory so complete as that which one
obtains over a person who is always accustomed to meet with fear and obedience. Aunt Horsingham
rules her household with a rod of iron; nobody ever ventures to disagree with her, or so much
as to hint an opinion contrary to those which she is known to hold. Such a person is so astonished
at resistance as to be incapable of quelling it; the very hardihood of the rebellion ensures
its success. When I walked out of the drawing-room to-day I felt that for once I had obtained
the victory in a contest with my aunt; that in future I should no longer be the "wild, troublesome
Kate," the "black sheep" of the family, the scapegoat on whom were laid the faults and misdemeanours
of all, but the master-spirit, the bold, resolute woman, whose value others were able to appreciate,
and who was ready and willing to assert her own independence. In the meantime poor Aunt Deborah
had to be informed of what had taken place, and Cousin Amelia to be undeceived in her groundless
expectations. That the latter would never forgive me I was well enough acquainted with my own
sex to be assured; but the task required to be done, notwithstanding. Flushed with my triumph,
with heightened colour and flashing eyes, I stalked off towards my chamber and met Cousin John
in the hall.

"Good heavens, Kate, what is the matter? What has happened?" exclaimed John in obvious perturbation.

"A piece of news!" was my reply; "a conquest, John! What do you think? Mr. Haycock has just
been here, and proposed for me!"

He flushed up all over his face and temples, and then turned deadly pale; even his lips were
quite white and wide apart. How they quivered as he tried to speak unconcernedly! And after
all he got out nothing but, "Well, Kate?"

"And I have refused him, John," I said quietly, but in a tone that showed him there was no
mistake about it.

"God bless you, Kate!" was all he replied, and turned away muttering something about "wet things"
and his "dressing-room;" but he was going to the wrong door, and had to turn back, though he
took care not to let me see his face again.

I can't make John out. At dinner he was just as if nothing had happened; but at all events
I'm glad I've refused Mr. Haycock; so I shall read Frank's note over once more and then go to bed.

CHAPTER XIV.

I need quote no more from my diary, as the next few days offered no incident worthy of recording
to break the monotony of our life at Dangerfield Hall. Drearier than ever it was, and more
especially to me; for I felt that, although undeclared, there was "war to the knife" between
myself, my aunt, and cousin. The latter scarcely spoke to me at all; and my aunt, whose defeat
was rankling bitterly in her heart, merely took such sullen notice of me as was absolutely
necessitated by the laws of hospitality and the usages of society. Poor Aunt Deborah required
to be kept very quiet and free from all worries and annoyances. "The more she slept," the doctor
said, "the sooner she would get well enough to move to London for further advice;" so I had
not even her to talk to--there was no hunting--the frost got harder and harder--that obstinate
weather-cock over the stables kept veering from north to north-east--the grooms went to exercise
wrapped up in greatcoats and shawl handkerchiefs, and stayed out as short a time as was compatible
with the mildest stable discipline; there would be no change of the moon for a week, and it
was obvious that I should have but little use for Brilliant and White Stockings before our
return to town.

Oh! the hopelessness of a real bitter black frost coming on early in the season, especially
when you are not at your own home and your time is limited; to get up morning after morning
with the faint hope that the change may have come at last; to see the dry slates and the clear
horizon and the iron-bound earth, and to ascertain in your own proper person that the water
gets colder and colder every day. You puzzle over the almanac till your eyes ache, and study
the thermometer till you get a crick in your neck. You watch the smoke from every farmhouse
and cottage within your ken, and still, after curling high up into the pure, rarefied atmosphere,
it floats hopelessly away to the southward and corroborates the odious dog-vane that you fondly
imagined might have got stuck in its northerly direction. You walk out and ask every labourer
you meet whether he "does not think we are going to have a change?" The man looks up from his
work, wonders at your solicitude, opines "the gentry folk have queer ways," but answers honestly
enough, according to his convictions, in the negative--perhaps giving some local reasons for
his opinion, which, if an old man, he will tell you he has never known to fail. Lastly, you
quarrel with every one of your non-hunting friends, whose unfeeling observations on "fine seasonable
weather" and "healthy, bracing frosts" you feel to be brutal in the extreme.

How I hated the frost at Dangerfield! My only chance of meeting with Frank Lovell was out hunting.
I had written him an answer to his note (I have often heard Aunt Horsingham say that nothing
is so inexcusable as not to answer a letter), and I had no possible means of delivering it.
I could not put it in the bag, for my aunt keeps the key. I did not like to entrust it to any
of the servants, and my own maid is the last person in whose power I should choose to place
myself. I did once think of asking Cousin John to give it to Frank, and throwing myself on
kind, good John's generosity, and confessing everything to him, and asking for his advice;
but somehow I could not bring myself to it. If he had been my brother, nothing would have been
easier; but John is only a cousin, and one or two little things of late had made me suspect
that he liked me even better than cousins generally do; so altogether I thought I would leave
it alone--besides, John was going off to shoot pheasants in Wales. The third morning of the
frost he came down to breakfast in a suit of wondrous apparel that I knew meant a move in some
direction, and I attacked him accordingly.

"Is that killing 'get-up' entirely for our benefit, John?" I asked; "or are you bound on some
expedition that requires more fascinations than common?"

John coloured--he has taken to blushing lately. "I'm going down to Wales for a few days' shooting,
Kate," was his reply. "I shall come back again when the frost breaks up if Lady Horsingham
will be good enough to receive me." Aunt Horsingham is always very civil to John, and so is
Cousin Amelia. People generally are to young bachelors. I wonder why men ever marry; they are
so much more in request without wives and children.

"Always happy to see you," said Aunt Horsingham, with an emphasis on the pronoun. "By-the-way,
what is your address in Wales, that I may forward your letters?"

John looked rather guilty as he handed an envelope to my aunt and begged her to copy it exactly.

"I can't pronounce the name of my friend Lloyd's place," he said, "but you'll find it written
there in seven consonants and one vowel."

"Lloyd!" said I--"Lloyd! Wasn't there a pretty Miss Lloyd you used to dance with last season
in London? John! John! I've found you out at last. Now I can account for the splendour of your
attire. Now I can see why you post off to Wales in such a hurry, leaving your horses and your
hunting and your cousin, sir, for the beaux yeux of Miss Fanny--isn't that her name? Well,
John, I give you joy; she is a pretty girl, even in London, and Aunt Deborah says she's a fortune."

John looked so distressed I didn't like to pursue the subject. I couldn't think what had come
over him--he never spoke another word to me till he jumped into his dog-cart to be off, and
then he only muttered "Goodbye, Kate" in a hoarse whisper, but he wrung my hand very hard,
and I even thought there were tears in his eyes! He is a good fellow, John; I was sorry to
think I might have said anything to hurt his feelings.

After he went away it was drearier than ever. What could I do but think of Frank Lovell, and
wonder when I should see him again? Where could he be? Perhaps at the inn at Muddlebury. I
could see the smoke of the town from the breakfast-room windows, and used to watch it with
a painful interest. Every time a servant came into the room I thought something impossible
was going to happen. If a carriage drove up to the house--if a horse's tramp was heard in the
approach--if the door-bell rung, I fancied it must be Captain Lovell coming to call--perhaps
to explain everything--possibly to request an interview with my aunt, such as Squire Haycock
had undergone, "but," as I said to myself with a beating heart, "to have a very different result."
If the dwelling solely on one idea be a species of madness, then was I undoubtedly mad--nothing
was so wild and extravagant as to appear impossible to my heated fancy. I was always expecting
and always disappointed.

The fourth morning I got a letter from Mrs. Lumley, which did not add much to my composure
or comfort. Why is it ladies have such a knack of making each other miserable equally by letter
as by word of mouth? I give the epistle of Mrs. Lumley verbatim, omitting only the dashes and
notes of admiration with which it was studded:--

  "MY DEAREST DEAR KATE,--Here we are settled at Brighton, much to
  the benefit of my poor, dear husband, whom you have never seen, but
  who knows you well by name, and have everything, even the weather,
  all we can wish. The only drawback to me is the loss of your
  charming society and the absence of your dear, merry face.

  "I am leading a highly virtuous and praiseworthy life, and have not
  done the least bit of mischief since I came here, except making the
  Dean's wife jealous, which I can hardly call a crime, as she is a
  vulgar little woman with a red nose and a yellow bonnet--the Dean
  is a fat, good-natured man, and calls here nearly every day. His
  wife abuses me in all societies, and tries to pass me without
  speaking. You know how I always return good for evil, so I go up and
  shake hands with her, and ask after her dear children, and patronize
  her till I make her so angry she don't know which way to look--it's
  rather good fun in such a slow place as this. My time is fully
  occupied nursing 'my old man,' who was very ill before we came here,
  and can only go out in a pony-carriage for an hour or two at a time;
  so I have brought the ponies down and drive him myself.

  "The only chance the brown mare has of a gallop is in the mornings,
  though next week I mean to have a day with the harriers; indeed,
  they have appointed them at a good place on purpose for me. I
  inspected the regiment of Dragoons quartered here yesterday morning;
  they were at exercise on the Downs, and as the Gitana (my brown
  mare) always behaves well with troops, which my enemies would affirm
  is more than can be said of her mistress, I am able to report upon
  their general appearance and efficiency. Such a set of 'gigs,' my
  dear, I never saw in my life; large underbred horses, and not a
  good-looking man amongst them. The officers are, if possible, more
  hideous than the privates; and they never give balls or theatricals
  or anything, so we need waste no more words upon them.

  "I am improving my mind, though, vastly, picking up shells for my
  little cousins, and perfecting my education besides by learning to
  swim. I wish you were here--what fun we would have enacting the
  part of mermaids! though I fear the cold will now put a stop to my
  aquatic exploits. The other morning I swam nearly two hundred yards
  on a stretch; and the tide having taken me out of my reckoning, I
  brought up, as the sailors say, opposite the gentlemen's
  bathing-machines. What could I do? It was as impossible to walk
  along the beach as to fight back against the current. Presence of
  mind, Kate, is the salient point of the heroic character; the door
  of a machine was open, and I popped in. My dear, there were all his
  clothes, his hair-brush, his button-hook, his wig, and, would you
  believe it? an instrument for curling his whiskers! I put everything
  on except the wig, crowned myself with his broad-brimmed white hat,
  felt in his pockets, which were full of gold and silver, and, to my
  credit be it said, only selected one shilling, with which I paid the
  bathing-man, and walked off undiscovered to my own machine. The fat
  old she-triton laughed till she cried. I dressed in my proper
  costume leisurely enough, and was amused to hear afterwards of the
  luckless plight in which a stout gentleman had found himself by the
  temporary loss of all his apparel whilst he was disporting in 'the
  briny.'

  "Other adventures I have had none; and the contrast is, as you may
  believe, somewhat striking after the last two or three weeks of the
  London season--always, to my mind, the pleasantest part of the
  year. I was sorry you left town when you did; we had such a number
  of charming little dinners and expeditions in our own set. Dear
  Frank Lovell was the life and soul of us all. I never knew him in
  such spirits--quite like a boy out of school; and there were few
  days that we did not meet either at Greenwich or Richmond, or
  Windsor or Vauxhall; and of course wherever he went there was Lady
  Scapegrace. I must say that, although nobody can accuse me of being
  a prude, the way she goes on with Frank is rather too brazen-faced
  even for her--taking him everywhere in her carriage, setting him
  down at his club after the opera, walking with him in Kensington
  Gardens, his cab always at the door, and her ladyship 'not at home'
  even to me. To be sure, he is almost as bad, if it is true, as
  everybody says it is, that he is to marry Miss Molasses.

  "Poor Frank! he must get hold of somebody with money, or he will
  soon be in the Bench. He is rather a friend of yours, my dear, so I
  ought not to abuse him; but he is very wild, and though extremely
  agreeable, I am afraid utterly unprincipled. I do not believe,
  however, that he cares one snap of the fingers for Lady Scapegrace,
  or Miss Molasses either, for the matter of that. I meant to have
  written you a long letter; but my stupid servants have let the Dean
  in, and I hear his cough at this moment on the stairs--he is sadly
  out of wind before he reaches the first landing. I think even my
  poor 'old man' would beat him at even weights a hundred yards along
  the beach. As I shall not get rid of him under an hour, and the post
  will by that time be gone out, I must wish you good-bye.--Ever my
  dearest Kate's most affectionate

                                                 "M. L."

I threw the letter on the floor, and stamped upon it with my feet. And was this the end of
all? To have brooded and pined, and made myself miserable and well-nigh broken my heart day
by day for a man that was to prove so utterly unworthy as this! To have been thrown over for
a Lady Scapegrace! or, worse still, to have allowed even to myself that I cared for one who
was ready and willing to be sold to a Miss Molasses.

"Too degrading!" I thought. "No, I'll never care for him again; the dream is over. What a fool
I've been! And yet--why did he send his horses down to Muddlebury? Why did he serenade me that
night from the Park? Why is he not now with his dear Lady Scapegrace at Scamperly, where I
see by the Morning Post Sir Guy is 'entertaining a party of fashionables during the frost'?
No! I will not give him up quite yet."

On reading her letter over again, which I did many times during the day, I found a ray of comfort
in my voluble correspondent's own opinion that Frank did not himself care a pin for either
of the ladies, to both of whom the world gave him so unhesitatingly. Well, that was something,
at any rate. As for his wildness and his debts, and his recklessness and many escapades, I
liked him none the worse for these--what woman ever did? I thought it all over during the whole
day, and by the time that I opened my window for my usual lookout into the night before going
to bed, I am afraid I felt more inclined than ever to forgive him all that had gone before,
and more determined to find some means of forwarding him the answer I had written to his note,
and which I had been so many times on the point of burning during the day.

What a bitter cold night it was!--yet the keen north wind felt pleasant and refreshing on my
fevered forehead. There had been a sprinkling of snow too since sunset, and the open surface
of the Park was completely whitened over--how cheerless and desolate it looked! I hadn't the
heart to stay very long at the window; it reminded me too much of the pleasant evenings one
short week ago. I felt weary and desponding, and drowsy with uncertainty and unhappiness, so
I was in the act of shutting down the window, when I saw a dark figure moving rapidly across
the snow in the direction of the house. Not for an instant did I mistake it for a deer, or
a gamekeeper, or a poacher, or a housebreaker. From the moment I set eyes on it, something
told me it must be Frank Lovell; and though I shrunk back that he might not see me, I watched
him with painful anxiety and a beating heart. He seemed to know his way quite well. He came
straight to the moat, felt his way cautiously for a step or two, and finding the ice would
bear him, crossed at once, and took up a position under my window, not twenty feet from where
I was standing.

He must have seen my shadow across the candle-light, for he whispered my name.

"Miss Coventry--Kate! Only one word." What could I do? Poor fellow! he had walked all that
distance in the cold and the snow only for one word--and this was the man I had been doubting
and misjudging all day! Why, of course, though I know it was very wrong and very improper and
all that, of course I spoke to him, and listened to what he had to say, and carried on a long
conversation, the effect of which was somewhat ludicrous, in consequence of the distance between
the parties, question and answer requiring to be shouted, as it were, in a whisper. The night
too was clouding over, more snow was falling, and it was getting so dark I could not see Frank,
even at the distance of twelve or fourteen feet, and it could not have been much more between
my bedroom window and the ground.

"Did you get my note?" said he with sundry complimentary expressions.

"Here's the answer," was my practical reply, as I dropped my own missive into the darkness.

I know he caught it, because--because--I heard him kiss it. At that moment I was aware of a
step in the passage, a hand on my door. Down went my window in a twinkling, out went my candles--the
wick of the second one would keep glimmering like a light far off at sea--and in came Aunt
Horsingham, clad in flannel attire, with a wondrous head-dress, the like of which I have never
beheld before or since, just as I popped into bed, and buried myself beneath the clothes as
if I had been asleep for hours.

"Where can it be, Kate?" said my aunt. "I have been in every room along the passage to find
out where the light comes from. I saw it distinctly from my own room, streaming across the
moat; there might be thieves in the house," added my aunt, looking valiant even in flannel,
"or some of the men-servants carousing, but I have been in every room on the ground floor myself;
and then I thought perhaps you might be sitting up reading."

"Reading, aunt? Oh dear, no! I assure you I wasn't reading," I answered, every nerve racked
with suspense, lest Frank should get impatient and wonder what had become of me--perhaps throw
a snowball up at the window to attract my attention.

"What o'clock is it?" I added with a feigned yawn. "I think I must have been asleep for hours."

As if to punish me for this gratuitous perversion of the truth, the words were hardly out of
my mouth when I heard a loud crack on the ice, and a splash as of the sudden immersion of some
daring adventurer; then all was still--the snow-flakes fell softly against the window panes.
My aunt, shading her candle with her long hand, talked drowsily on; and finally persisted in
my coming to sleep with her in her own room, as she said I was "the only person in the house
that had the nerves of a hen." I would have given all I was worth in the world to have one
more look out of the open window, though even then it might be too late. I would willingly
have walked barefoot in the snow all the way to Muddlebury, only to know he was safe back at
the inn. For a moment I thought of confessing everything and alarming the house, but I had
not courage; so I followed my aunt to her room, and lay awake that livelong night in such a
state of agony and suspense as I hope I may never have to endure again.

CHAPTER XV.

It may easily be believed that I took an early walk next morning before breakfast. No sooner
had I made my escape from Aunt Horsingham's room, than, in utter defiance of the cold thaw
just commencing, I put my bonnet on and made the best of my way to the moat. Sure enough, large
fragments of ice were floating about where the surface had been broken, close to the side farthest
from the Hall. There were footprints on the snow though, leading away through the Park in the
direction of Muddlebury, and I came back to breakfast with a heart lightened of at least half
its load. We were to return to London immediately. Aunt Deborah, pale and reduced, but undoubtedly
better, was able to appear at breakfast, and Lady Horsingham, now that we were really about
to take leave of her, seemed to value our society, and to be sorry to part with us.

"My dear Deborah, I trust you are well wrapped up for this cold raw day," said our hostess,
pressing on her departing guest all kinds of provision for the journey. "I have ordered them
to put up a paper of sandwiches and some sherry, and a few biscuits and a bottle of peppermint-water."

"And, Aunt Deborah," put in Cousin Amelia, "here's a comforter I've made you myself, and a
box of cayenne lozenges for your throat; and don't forget the stone jug of hot water for your
poor feet; and mind you write directly you arrive--you or Kate," she added, turning to address
me almost for the first time since the memorable mistake about Squire Haycock.

Aunt Deborah was completely overpowered by so much kindness.

"You'd better have the carriage all to yourself--you and your maid," persisted Lady Horsingham.
"I'll drive Kate as far as the station in the pony-carriage.--Kate, you're not afraid to trust
yourself with me in the pony-carriage?"

"Not I, indeed, aunt," was my reply, "nor with anybody else, for that matter. I've pretty good
nerves--there are few things that I am afraid of."

"Indeed, Kate, I fear it is so," was my aunt's reply. "I own I should like to see you a little
more of a coward."

So it was settled that Aunt Deborah and Gertrude being safely packed up in the close carriage,
I should accompany Lady Horsingham, who was rather proud of her charioteering skill, and drove
stiff and upright, as if she had swallowed the poker--never looking to the right or left, or
allowing her attention to wander for an instant from the ponies she had undertaken to control.

Now, these said ponies had been doing nothing during the frost except consuming their three
feeds a day with vigorous appetite and a considerable accession of high spirits. Consequently
they were, what is termed in stable language, very much "above themselves"--a state of self-exaltation
which they demonstrated by sundry unbecoming squeaks and gambols as soon as they found themselves
fairly started on their journey. Tiny, the youngest and handsomest, would persist in shying,
plunging, and swerving against the pole, much to the demoralization of his comrade, Mouse,
a stiff-built little fellow with a thick neck, who was ordinarily extremely well-behaved, but
apt on occasions like the present to lower his rebellious little head and defy all control.

Lady Horsingham was tolerably courageous, but totally destitute of what is termed "hand," a
quality as necessary in driving as in riding, particularly with fractious or high-spirited
horses. The seat of a pony-carriage, besides, is not a position from which a Jehu has much
command over the animals in front of him; and although, as I have repeatedly said, I am not
nervous, I had earned sufficient experience in the ways of the equine race to know that we
might easily be placed in a position of some peril should anything occur to excite the mischievous
propensities of either of the specimens now gambolling before us. More accidents have happened
out of pony-carriages than all other descriptions of vehicle put together.

It is said that in the olden and golden days of the road the usual death of a "long coachman"
was to be pitched out of a gig; and doubtless that two-wheeled conveniency, particularly when
going at any pace, is capable of arriving at a large proportion of grief. But even a gig, if
properly constructed, admits of the driver having a certain amount of control over his horse;
he is well above the animal, and can get a good purchase to pull him up from, when the acceleration
is becoming dangerous, or there is a tendency to the grosser insubordination of a "kicking
match." Not so in a pony-carriage: low down upon the ground, even under their very heels, you
are completely at the mercy of your team; and the facility of egress in the event of a runaway
only tempts you to the fatal expedient of jumping out--another form of expression for "certain
death."

To be sure, if people will but sit still, there is no reason why they should be much alarmed,
as an "upset" from so low an elevation need not necessarily produce any very serious results.
But they never will sit still--at least they won't in nine cases out of ten, and the consequence
is that whilst newspaper columns are filled with "horrid accidents" and "frightful occurrences,"
based on the fact of the "unfortunate sufferer taking an airing in his or her pony-carriage,"
many an elderly lady and cautious gentleman is not to be persuaded into entering one of these
little conveyances, but prefers the slow and sure travelling of his or her own respectable feet.

Well, Lady Horsingham seemed rather uncomfortable on her driving-seat, although far too proud
to acknowledge so derogatory a feeling. We had no servant with us; and when I suggested that
we might as well take one of the stablemen to open the gates, my proposal was met with derision
and contempt.

"I should have thought such a masculine lady as yourself, Kate, would have been above requiring
any assistance. I am always in the habit of driving these ponies quite by myself; but of course,
if you're afraid, I'll have a groom to go with us immediately."

Afraid, indeed! I scouted the idea: my blood was up, and I almost hoped something would happen,
that I might fling the word in my aunt's teeth, and ask her, "Who's afraid now?" It came sooner
than I bargained for.

The ponies were pulling hard, and had got their mouths so thoroughly set against my aunt's
iron hand, that she might as well have been driving with a pair of halters for any power she
had over them, when a rush of colts in an adjoining paddock on one side of the lane, and a
covey of partridges "whirring up" out of a turnip-field on the other, started them both at
the same moment. My aunt gave a slight scream, clutched at her reins with a jerk; down went
the ponies' heads, and we were off, as hard as ever they could lay legs to the ground, along
a deep-rutted narrow lane, with innumerable twistings and turnings in front of us, for a certainty,
and the off-chance of a wagon and bell team blocking up the whole passage before we could emerge
upon the high road.

"Lay hold, Kate!" vociferated my aunt, pulling for her very life, with the veins on her bare
wrists swelling up like whipcord. "Gracious goodness! can't you stop 'em? There's a gravel-pit
not half a mile farther on! I'll jump out! I'll jump out!"

My aunt began kicking her feet clear of the sundry wraps and shawls, and the leather apron
that kept our knees warm, though I must do her the justice to say that she still tugged hard
at the reins. I saw such an expedient would be certain death, and I wound one arm round her
waist, and held her forcibly down in her seat, while with the other I endeavoured to assist
her in the hopeless task of stopping the runaway ponies. Everything was against us: the ground
was slightly on the decline; the thaw had not yet reached the sheltered road we were travelling,
and the wheels rung against its frozen surface as they spun round with a velocity that seemed
to add to the excitement of our flying steeds. Ever and anon we bounded and bumped over some
rut or inequality that was deeper than usual. Twice we were within an inch of the ditch; once,
for an awful hundred yards, we were balancing on two wheels; and still we went faster and faster
than ever. The trees and hedges wheeled by us; the gravel road streamed away behind us. I began
to get giddy and to lose my strength. I could hardly hope to hold my aunt in much longer, and
now she began to struggle frightfully, for we were nearing the gravel-pit turn! Ahead of us
was a comfortable fat farmer, jogging drowsily to market in his gig. I can see his broad, well-to-do
back now. What would I have given to be seated, I had almost said enthroned, by his side? What
a smash if we had touched him! I pulled frantically at the off-rein, and we just cleared his
wheel. He said something; I could not make out what. I was nearly exhausted, and shut my eyes,
resigning myself to my fate, but still clinging to my aunt. I think that if ever that austere
woman was near fainting it was on this occasion. I just caught a glimpse of her white, stony
face and fixed eyes; her terror even gave me a certain confidence. A figure in front of us
commenced gesticulating and shouting and waving its hat. The ponies slackened their pace, and
my courage began to revive.

"Sit still," I exclaimed to my aunt as I indulged them with a good strong "give-and-take" pull.

The gravel-pit corner was close at hand, but the figure had seized the refractory little steeds
by their heads, and though I shook all over, and felt really frightened now the danger was
past, I knew that we were safe, and that we owed our safety to a tall, ragged cripple with
a crutch and a bandage over one eye.

My aunt jumped out in a twinkling, and the instant she touched terra firma put her hand to
her side, and began to sob and gasp and pant, as ladies will previous to an attack of what
the doctors call "hysteria." She leant upon the cripple's shoulder, and I observed a strange,
roguish sparkle in his unbandaged eye. Moreover, I remarked that his hands were white and clean,
and his figure, if he hadn't been such a cripple, would have been tall and active.

"What shall I do?" gasped my aunt. "I won't get in; nothing shall induce me to get in again.
Kate, give this good man half a crown. What a providential escape! He ought to have a sovereign.
Perhaps ten shillings will be enough. How am I to get back? I'll walk all the way rather than
get in."

"But, aunt," I suggested, "at any rate I must get to the station. Aunt Deborah is sure to think
something has happened, and she ought not to be frightened till she gets stronger. How far
is it to the station? I think I should not mind driving the ponies on."

In the meantime the fat farmer whom we had passed so rapidly had arrived at the scene of action,
his anxiety not having induced him in the slightest degree to increase the jog-trot pace at
which all his ideas seemed to travel. He knew Lady Horsingham quite well, and now sat in his
gig with his hat off, wiping his fat face, and expatiating on the narrow escape her ladyship
had made, but without offering the slightest suggestion or assistance whatever.

At this juncture the cripple showed himself a man of energy.

"Your ladyship had best go home with this gentleman," said he, indicating the fat farmer, "if
the young lady is not afraid to go on. I can take care of her as far as the railway, if it's
not too great a liberty, and bring the ponies back to the Hall afterwards, my lady?" with an
interrogative snatch at his ragged hat.

It seemed the best thing to be done under the circumstances. My aunt, after much demurring
and another incipient attack of the hysterics, consented to entrust herself to the fat farmer's
guidance, not, however, until she was assured that his horse was both blind and broken-winded.
I put Mouse's bridle down on the lower bar instead of the cheek, on which he had previously
been driven. My aunt climbed into the gig; I mounted the pony-carriage, the cripple took his
seat deferentially by my side, and away we went on our respective journeys; certainly in a
mode which we had little anticipated when we left the front door at Dangerfield Hall.

My preserver sat half in and half out of the carriage, leaning his white, well-shaped hand
upon the splashboard. The bandaged side of his face was towards me. The ponies went quietly
enough; they had enjoyed their gallop, and were, I think, a little blown. I had leisure to
take a good survey of my companion. When we had thus travelled for a quarter of a mile in silence
he turned his face towards me. We looked at each other for about half a minute, and then both
burst out laughing.

"You didn't know me, Miss Coventry! not the least in the world," exclaimed the cripple, pulling
the bandage off his face, and showing another eye quite as handsome as the one that had previously
been uncovered.

"How could you do so, Captain Lovell?" was all I could reply. "Conceive if my aunt had found
you out, or even if any one should recognize you now. What would people think of me? But how
did you know we were going to London to-day, and how could you tell the ponies would run away?"

"Never mind how I knew your movements, Miss Coventry," was the reply. "Kate! may I call you
Kate? it's such a soft, sweet name," he added, now sitting altogether inside the carriage,
which certainly was a small one for two people. "You don't know how I've watched for you, and
waited and prowled about, during the last few days. You don't know how anxious I've been only
for one word--even one look. I've spent hours out on the Down just to see the flutter of your
white dress as you went through the shrubbery--even at that distance it was something to gaze
at you and know you were there. Last night I crossed the ice under your window."

"You did indeed!" I replied with a laugh; "and what a ducking you must have got!"

Frank laughed too, and resumed. "I was sadly afraid that your aunt might have found out you
were holding a parley with the enemy outside the walls. I knew you were to go to London to-day.
I thought very likely you might be annoyed, and put under surveillance on my account, and I
was resolved to see you, if only for one moment; so I borrowed these ragged garments of a professional
beggar, who I believe is a great deal better off in reality than myself, and I determined to
watch for your carriage and trust to chance for a word, or even a glance of recognition. She
has befriended me more than I could expect. At first, when I saw 'Aunt Deborah' alone in the
chariot, it flashed across me that perhaps you were to stay en penitence at Dangerfield. But
I knew Lady Horsingham had a pony-carriage. I also knew--or what would be the use of servants?--that
it was ordered this morning; so I stumped gaily along the road, thinking that at all events
I might have an opportunity of saying three words to you at the station whilst the servants
were putting the luggage on, and the dear aunts, who I presume cherish a mutual hatred, were
wishing each other a tender farewell. But that such a chance as this runaway should befriend
me was more than I ever dared to hope for, and that I should be sitting next you, Kate (and
so close, I'm sure he might have added), in Lady Horsingham's pony-phaeton is a piece of good
luck that in my wildest moments I never so much as dreamt of. We scarcely ever meet now. There--you
needn't drive so fast; the up-train don't go by till the half-hour, and every minute is precious,
at least to me. We are kept sadly apart, Kate. If you can bear it, I can't. I should like to
be near you always--always to watch over you and worship you. Confound that pony! he's off again."

Sure enough, Tiny was indulging in more vagaries, as if he meditated a second fit of rebellion;
and what with holding him and humouring Mouse, and keeping my head down so as to hide my face
from Frank, for I didn't want him to see how I was blushing, I am sure I had enough to do.

"Kate, you must really have pity on me," pursued Frank. "You don't know how miserable I am
sometimes (I wonder what he wanted me to say?), or how happy you have it in your power to make
me. Here we are at that cursed station, and my dream is over. I must be the cripple and the
beggar once more--a beggar I am indeed, Kate, without your affection. When shall we meet again,
and where?"

"In London," was all I could answer.

"And you won't forget me, Kate?" pleaded poor Frank, looking so handsome, poor fellow.

"Never," I replied, and before I knew how it was, I found myself standing on the platform with
Aunt Deborah and the servants and the luggage. The great green engine was panting and gasping
in front of me, but ponies and pony-carriage and cripple had all vanished like a dream.

As we steamed on to London I sometimes thought it was a dream, not altogether a pleasant one,
nor yet exactly the reverse. I should have liked my admirer to have been a little more explicit.
It is all very well to talk of being miserable and desperate, and to ring the changes of meeting
and parting, and looks and sighs, and all that; but after all the real question is, "Will you?"
or "Won't you?" and I don't think a man is acting very fairly towards a girl who don't put
the case in that way at once before he allows himself to run into rhapsodies about his feelings
and his sufferings and such matters, which, after all, lead to nothing, or at least to nothing
satisfactory. To be sure, men are strange creatures, and upon my word I sometimes think they
are more troubled with shyness than our own sex. Perhaps it's their diffidence that makes them
hesitate so, and, as it were, "beat about the bush," when they have only got to "flush the
bird" and shoot it at once and put it in the game-bag. Perhaps it's their pride for fear of
being refused. Now, I think it's far more creditable to a man to wear the willow, and take
to men dinners and brandy-and-water for a month or six weeks, than to break a girl's heart
for a whole year; and I know it takes nearly that time for a well-brought-up young lady to
get over a real matrimonial disappointment. However, shy or not shy, they certainly ought to
be explicit. It's too bad to miss a chance because we cannot interpret the metaphor in which
some bashful swain thinks it decorous to couch his proposals; and I once knew a young lady
who, happening to dislike needlework, and replying in the negative to the insidious question,
"Can you sew a button?" never knew for months that she had actually declined a man she was
really fond of, with large black whiskers, and two-and-twenty hundred a year. Women can't be
too cautious.

CHAPTER XVI.

I was not sorry to be once again fairly settled in Lowndes Street. Even in the winter London
has its charms. People don't watch everything you do or carp at everything you say. If there
is more apparent constraint, there is more real liberty than in the country. Besides, you have
so much society, and everybody is so much pleasanter in the metropolis during December than
July. The frost had set in again harder than ever. Brilliant and White Stockings, like "Speir-Adam's
steeds," were compelled to "bide in stall." John was lingering at the Lloyds or elsewhere in
the Principality, though expected back every day. Aunt Deborah was still weak, and had only
just sufficient energy to forbid Captain Lovell the house, and insist on my never speaking
to him. I can't think what she had found out or what Aunt Horsingham had told her; but this
I know, that if ever I have a daughter, and I don't want her to like Mr. Dash, or to be continually
thinking about him, I shall not forbid her to speak to him; nor shall I take every opportunity
of impressing on her that he is wild, unprincipled, reckless, and dissipated, and that the
only redeeming points about him are his agreeable conversation and his good looks. Altogether,
I should have been somewhat dull had it not been for Mrs. Lumley; but of that vivacious lady
I saw a good deal, and I confess took a far greater pleasure in her society than on our first
acquaintance I should have esteemed possible. When I am ill at ease with myself, not thoroughly
satisfied with my own conduct, I always like the society of fast people; their liberality of
sentiment and general carelessness of demeanour convey no tacit reproach on my own want of
restraint, and I feel more at home with them than with such severe moralists as Aunt Horsingham
or hypocritical Cousin Amelia. So I drove and shopped and visited with Mrs. Lumley--nay, I
was even permitted as a great favour to dine with her on one or two occasions, Aunt Deborah
only stipulating that there should be no male addition to the party except Mr. Lumley himself,
or, as the lady of the house termed him, "her old man."

I confess I liked the "old man," and so I think in her own way did his wife. Why she married
him I cannot think, more particularly as he had not then succeeded to the comfortable fortune
they now enjoy: he was little, old, ugly, decrepit, and an invalid, but he was good nature
and contentment personified. I believe he had great talents--for all his want of physical beauty
he had a fine head--but these talents were wholly and unsparingly devoted to one pursuit: he
was an entomologist. With a black beetle and a microscope he was happy for the day. Piles upon
piles of manuscripts had he written upon the forms and classification of the bluebottle fly.
He could tell you how many legs are flourished by the house-spider, and was thoroughly versed
in the anatomy of the common gnat. This pursuit, or science as he called it, engrossed his
whole attention. It was fortunate he had such an absorbing occupation, inasmuch as his general
debility prevented his entering into any amusement out of doors. His wife and he seemed to
understand each other perfectly.

"My dear," he would say when listening to some escapade that it would have been scarcely prudent
to trust to most husbands' ears, "I never interfere with your butterflies, and you never trouble
yourself about mine. I must, however, do myself the justice to observe that you get tired of
your insects infinitely the soonest of the two."

He never inquired where she went or what she did, but late or early always received her with
the same quiet welcome, the same sly, good-humoured smile. I firmly believe that with all her
levity, whatever scandal might say, she was a good wife to him. He trusted her implicitly;
and I think she felt his confidence deserved to be respected. Such was not the opinion of the
world, I am well aware; but we all know the charitable construction it is so eager to put on
a fair face with a loud laugh and a good set of teeth. Dear me! if he looked for a lady that
had never been talked about, Cæsar might have searched London for a wife in vain. Good Mr.
Lumley professed a great affection for me, and would occasionally favour me with long and technical
dissertations on the interior economy of the flea, for example; and once in the fullness of
his heart confided to his wife that "Miss Coventry was really a dear girl; it's my belief,
Madge, that if she'd been a man she'd have been a naturalist." These little dinners were indeed
vastly agreeable. Nobody had such a comfortable house or such a good cook or so many pretty
things as Mrs. Lumley. Her "old man" seemed to enjoy the relaxation of ladies' society after
his morning labours and researches. With me he was good-humoured and full of fun; at his wife's
jokes and stories, most of them somewhat scandalous, he would laugh till he cried.

"I'm responsible for you, Miss Coventry," he would say with a sly laugh. "You're not fit to
be trusted with Madge; upon my life, I believe she is the wildest of the two. If you won't
have the carriage, I must walk back with you myself.--How far is it, Madge? Do you think I
can stay the distance, as you sporting people term it in your inexplicable jargon?"

"Why, you know you can't get a hundred yards, you foolish old man," laughed his wife. "A nice
chaperon you'd make for Kate. Why, she'd have to carry you, and you know you'd tumble off even
then. No, no; you and I will stay comfortably here by the fire, and I'll give you your tea
and put you tidily to bed. I shan't be home any other night this week. Kate has a convoy coming
for her;--haven't you, Kate?--Le beau cousin will take the best possible care of us; and even
prim Aunt Deborah won't object to our walking back with him. I believe he came up from Wales
on purpose. What would somebody else give to take the charge off his hands?--You needn't blush,
Kate; I can see through a millstone as far as my neighbours. I'm not quite such a fool as I
look;--am I, 'old man'?--There's the doorbell.--John, ask Mr. Jones if he won't step up and
have some tea." We were sitting by a blazing fire in the boudoir, a snug and beautiful little
room, to which no one was admitted but the lady's especial favourites; even the "old man" never
entered it during the day.

"Mr. Jones's compliments, and he hopes you'll excuse him, ma'am," was the footman's answer
on his return; "but it's very late, and he promised to bring Miss Coventry back by eleven."

"Well, I'm sure," said Mrs. Lumley, "if I was you, Kate, I shouldn't stand his anticipating
his authority in this way. Never mind; be a good girl, and do as you're bid--pop your bonnet
on. Shall I lend you an extra shawl? There, you may give my 'old man' a kiss, if you like.
Bless him! he's gone fast asleep. Good-night, Kate; mind you come to luncheon to-morrow, there's
a dear." So saying, Mrs. Lumley bid me a most affectionate farewell; and I found myself leaning
on John's arm, to walk home through the clear frosty night.

I do like perambulating London streets by gaslight--of course with a gentleman to take care
of one. It is so much pleasanter than being stewed up in a brougham. How I wish it was the
fashion for people to take their bonnets out to dinner with them, and walk back in the cool
fresh air! If it is delightful even in winter, how much more so in the hot summer nights of
the season! Your spirits rise and your nerves brace themselves as you inhale the midnight air,
with all its smoky particles, pure by comparison with that which has just been poisoning you
in a crowded drawing-room. Your cavalier asks leave to indulge in his "weed," and you enjoy
its fragrance at second-hand as he puffs contentedly away and chats on in that prosy, confidential
sort of manner which no man ever succeeds in assuming, save with a cigar in his mouth. John
lit his, of course, but was less communicative, to my fancy, than usual. After asking me if
I had "enjoyed a pleasant evening," and whether "I preferred walking," he relapsed into a somewhat
constrained silence. I too walked on without speaking. Much as I love the night, it always
makes me rather melancholy; and I dare say we should have got to Lowndes Street without exchanging
a syllable, had not some imp of mischief prompted me to cross-examine my cousin a little upon
his séjour in Wales, and to quiz him half spitefully on his supposed penchant for pretty Fanny
Lloyd. John rose freely in a moment.

"I know where you pick up all this nonsense, Kate," he burst out quite savagely; "I know where
half the scandal and half the mischief in London originates! With that odious woman whose house
we have just quitted, whose tongue cannot be still for a single moment; who never by any chance
speaks a word of truth, and who is seldom so happy as when she is making mischief. I pity that
poor decrepit husband of hers, though he ought to keep her in better order; yet it is a hard
case upon any man to be tied to such a Jezebel as that."

"The Jezebel, as you call her, John," I interposed quietly, "is my most intimate friend."

"That's exactly what I complain of," urged my cousin; "that's my great objection to her, Kate;
that's one of the things that I do believe are driving me out of my senses day by day. You
know I don't wish you to associate with her; you know that I object extremely to your being
seen everywhere in her company. But you don't care: the more I expostulate the more obstinate
and wilful you seem to become."

It is my turn to be angry now.

"Obstinate and wilful indeed!" I repeated, drawing myself up. "I should like to know what right
you have to apply such terms to me! Who gave you authority to choose my society for me, or
to determine where I shall go or what I shall do? You presume on your relationship, John; you
take an ungenerous advantage of the regard and affection which I have always entertained for you."

John was mollified in an instant.

"Do you entertain regard and affection for me, Kate?" said he; "do you value my good opinion
and consider me as your dearest and best friend?"

"Of course I do, John," was my reply. "Haven't we known each other from childhood, and are
you not like a brother to me?"

John's face fell a little and his voice shook as he spoke. "Am I never to be more than a brother
to you--never to obtain a greater interest in you, a larger share of your regard than I have
now? Listen to me, Kate; I have something to tell you, and I can put it off no longer. This
delay, this uncertainty day by day, I do believe will drive me mad. Kate, I promised Aunt Deborah
faithfully that I would never enter on this subject till you came of age, and you know by your
father's will you don't come of age till you're five-and-twenty. 'By that time, John,' said
my aunt, 'Kate will have seen plenty of others, and be old enough to know her own mind. If
she takes you then, she takes you with her eyes open, and she won't get tired of you and find
out she likes some one else better. Promise me, John, that you'll wait till then.' And I did
promise, Kate; but I can't keep my word--I can't wait in this state of anxiety and uncertainty,
and perhaps lose you after all. It's too great a stake to play for if one is to be kept so
long in suspense, and I have resolved to be put out of my pain one way or the other."

John paused. I had never seen him so excited before. He was quite hot, though the night was
keen and frosty; his arm trembled as mine leant upon it; and though his cigar was gone out,
he kept puffing away, utterly unconscious of the fact. He seemed to expect an answer. I hesitated;
I did not know what to reply. I had got so accustomed to Cousin John that I never looked upon
him in any other light than that of a favourite brother, a constant companion and friend. Moreover,
I was not prepared to take any such decisive step as that to which he now seemed to be urging
me. There is a great difference between liking people and giving them power of life and death
over one for the rest of one's days. I will not say that the image of another did not rise
before me in all its winning beauty as I had seen it last, scarcely one short week ago. Altogether
I did not know what to say; so I wisely said nothing, but walked on, looking straight before
me, with an uncomfortable feeling that I was driven into a corner, and should ere long be compelled
to do that which is always distasteful to our liberty-loving sex--namely, to "make up my mind."

John too walked on for a few paces in silence. We were at the corner of Lowndes Street. There
was not a soul to be seen but our two selves. All at once he stopped short under the light
of a lamp and looked me full in the face.

"Kate," said he, in a grave, deliberate voice, "you know what I mean--Yes or No?"

I shook like a leaf. What would I have given to have been able to take counsel of one of my
own sex--Mrs. Lumley, Aunt Deborah, or even cold, pitiless Lady Horsingham! But I had to choose
for myself. I felt that the turning-point of my destiny had arrived--that the game was in my
own hand, and that now I ought to decide one way or the other. I shrank from the responsibility.
Like a very woman, I adopted a middle course.

"Give me time, John," I pleaded--"give me time to weigh matters over in my own mind. This is
an affair that equally concerns the happiness of each of us. Do not let us decide in a hurry.
Aunt Deborah was quite right: her wishes ought to be my law. When I am five-and-twenty it will
be soon enough to enter on this subject again. In the interval, believe me, John, I have the
greatest regard and esteem for you."

"Nothing more, Kate," said John, looking as if he didn't know whether he was pleased or annoyed--"nothing
but esteem?"

"Well, I mustn't say any more," was my reply; "but you know you have that."

John's face brightened considerably. "And in the meantime, Kate," he urged, "you won't allow
yourself to be entangled with any one else?"

"Of course not," was my vigorous disclaimer; and by this time we had arrived at my aunt's door,
and it was time to say good-night.

"What's the matter, Kate?" exclaimed Mrs. Lumley, when I called to lunch with her the following
day, according to promise. "You look pale and worried. For goodness' sake tell me what has
happened. Have you found out the rover transferring his adoration to Miss Molasses? or did
mon cousin take advantage of the hour and the opportunity to lecture us last night on our love
of admiration and general levity of conduct? Tell me all about it, dear. We shan't be disturbed.
I'm not 'at home' to a soul; and my old man is busy dissecting an earwig, so he's quite safe
till dinner-time. Sit you down on the sofa, out with your pocket-handkerchief, and make a clean
breast of it!"

I told her the whole of my conversation with my cousin the previous night, only suppressing
the unflattering opinions he had thought fit to express of my present confidante. "And oh,
Mrs. Lumley," I exclaimed as I concluded, "how could I sleep a wink last night, with all this
to harass and reproach me? No wonder I'm pale and worried and perfectly miserable. I feel I'm
behaving shamefully to John, and not at all rightly towards Captain Lovell. I know I ought
to come to an understanding with my cousin, and that Frank ought to be more explicit with me.
I couldn't have given a decided answer last night if my life had depended on it. I can't give
up the one without knowing exactly whether he means honestly (if I thought he did, Mrs. Lumley,
nothing should induce me to throw him over); and I don't like to make the other miserable,
which I am sure I should do if I refused him point-blank; nor do I think I could do at all
well without him, accustomed as I have been to depend upon him for everything from childhood.
So I have wavered and prevaricated, and behaved disingenuously, almost falsely; and what must
he think of me now?"

"Think of you, my dear?" replied my worldly friend; "why, of course, he thinks of you more
than ever. There is nothing like uncertainty, Kate, to keep them well up to the collar. You
should always treat men like the beasts of the field. If you want to retain the upper hand
of him, ride an adorer as you do Brilliant, my dear--a light hand, with just enough liberty
to make him fancy he is going quite at his ease; and then, when he is getting a little careless
and least expects it, give him such a jerk as makes his fine mouth smart again. He'll wince
with the pain, and very likely rear straight on end; but he'll be all on his haunches well
under control, and go on much the pleasanter during the rest of the day. Never mind how much
they suffer; it's very good for them, and they will like you all the better for it."

"That may answer very well with some," I replied, "but I should be afraid to try the experiment
too often. I am sure Brilliant would break away altogether if I used him so. And I think the
very man that minds it most would be the least likely to stand a repetition of such treatment.
No, Mrs. Lumley; I fear I must now choose between Frank and my cousin. The latter has behaved
honourably, considerately, and kindly, and like a thorough gentleman. The former seems to think
I am to be at his beck and call, indeed, whenever he chooses. He has never been to see me during
the whole of this past week. At Dangerfield he was as little careful of my reputation as he
was of his own limbs. Did I tell you how nearly drowned he was, crossing the moat? How you
would have laughed, you wicked, unfeeling woman, if you had heard the splash that cold, snowy
night! And then to disguise himself like a tramp, and stop those runaway ponies at the risk
of his life, that he might speak three words to me before I went away. I will say for him that
he is afraid of nothing; but I cannot conceal from myself which has behaved best towards me.
And yet, Mrs. Lumley," I concluded, rising and walking off to the window, "I would rather have
Frank for a lover than Cousin John for a husband."

"Many people would suggest there was no impossibility in your having both; but I don't give
such bad advice as that," replied Mrs. Lumley. "However, Kate, do nothing in a hurry--that's
my counsel. I grant you, I think Master Frank a very slippery gentleman. I do know some curious
stories about him; but I never tell tales out of school. In the meantime you are, after all,
only suffering from an embarras de richesses; it's far better to have too many suitors than
none at all. Come, I'll take you out shopping with me till five; then we'll have some tea,
and you can go home quietly to dinner and ask Aunt Deborah's leave to join me at the French
play. I've got a capital box, and I'll send the carriage for you. Wait half a second, whilst
I put on my bonnet."

So we went off shopping, and we had our tea, and I found no objections from Aunt Deborah to
my going out again in the evening; and I was so restless I did not the least grudge the trouble
of dressing, or anything to take me away from my own thoughts. But all the afternoon and all
the evening I made up my mind that I would give up Frank Lovell. A little resolution was all
that was needed. It was plain he did not really care for me. Why, he wasn't even in London,
though he knew quite well I had been there more than a week. Very likely I shouldn't see him
all the winter, and my heart sank as I thought how much easier this would make my sacrifice.
At all events, I determined, when I did see him, to be cold, and demure, and unmoved--to show
him unmistakably that I belonged to another; in which Spartan frame of mind I betook myself
to the French play.

Alas, alas! Well may the bard complain,--

    "Woman's vows are writ in water;
    Woman's faith is traced in sand."

Who should be in the back of the box but Frank Lovell himself! Mischievous Mrs. Lumley, was
this your doing? Before I went away I had promised to meet him next morning in the park, and
he was to explain all.

CHAPTER XVII.

I hope I have as much command of countenance as falls to the lot of any lady who don't paint;
but when I returned from my walk in the Park the following morning I must have looked flushed
or excited, or in some way different from usual. I met John at the corner of Lowndes Street,
and he stopped short, and looked me piercingly in the face.

"Where have you been, Kate?" said he, without waiting to bid me "good-morning" or anything.

"A little stroll in the Park, John," was my reply.

"By yourself?" he asked, and his face looked pale and grave.

I cannot tell a story, so I hesitated and stammered,--

"No, not exactly--at least I met an acquaintance near the Serpentine."

"Have you any objection to telling me who it was?" said John, and his voice sounded very strange.

"Good gracious! what's the matter?" I asked, in my turn. "Has anything happened? Are you ill,
John? you look quite upset."

"I insist upon knowing," answered he, without taking the slightest notice of my tender inquiries
after his health.

"Did you or did you not meet Captain Lovel this morning in Hyde Park?"

"Yes, I certainly did meet him," I replied.

"Accidentally?" exclaimed my cousin.

"Why--no--not entirely," was my answer; "but the fact is----"

"Enough!" burst out John, breaking in upon my explanations with a rudeness I had never before
seen him exhibit. "Kate, I have been deceived in you. I thought at least you were candid and
straightforward: I find you faithless, ungrateful, ungenerous! But I will not reproach you,"
he added, checking himself by a strong effort: "it is only natural, I conclude, for a woman
to be false. I thought you were different from the rest, and I was a fool for my pains. Kate,
let us understand each other at once. I offered you last night all that man could give. I had
a right to expect an answer then and there. I thought I had a favourable one, and I have spent
twelve hours of happiness. I now see that I have deceived myself. Perhaps I value my own worth
too highly; I own I feel sore and aggrieved, but you shall not be the sufferer. Kate, I am
only 'Cousin John' once more. Give me a few days to get over a natural disappointment, and
you and I will be friends and playfellows as we used to be. Shake hands, Kate: I spoke harshly,
in a moment of anger; it is over now. God bless you, dear!"

And with these words John walked away, and left me standing on that eventful doorstep which
seemed to witness all the changes and chances of my life. How stately was his walk as he strode
down the street! I watched him all the way to the corner, but he never once looked back. John
was grown much handsomer of late; he used to be too ruddy and prosperous-looking and boyish,
but his countenance had altered considerably in the last two or three months--only, seeing
him every day, I did not remark the change. Lady Scapegrace had found it out the first. I perfectly
remember her saying to me, on the day of our Greenwich dinner,--

"My dear, your cousin has a great deal in him, if one did but know how to get it out. You have
no idea what a good-looking man he would be, if you could only succeed in making him ill and
unhappy."

Poor John! I am afraid I had made him unhappy, even now. It struck me he had a nobler bearing
than Captain Lovell himself; although, of course, I could not think him so graceful, or so
handsome, or half so charming as my dear Frank. I rushed into the house and locked myself in
my boudoir, to think over and dwell upon the many events of that most eventful morning--my
happy walk, my delightful companion, whose soft voice was still whispering in my ear, whose
every look and gesture I could recall, even to the wind freshening his handsome brow and waving
his clustering locks. How happy and contented I felt by his side! And yet, there was a something.
I was not satisfied; I was not thoroughly at ease; my cousin's face would intrude itself upon
my thoughts. I could not get out of my head the tone of manly kindness and regret in which
he had last addressed me. I reflected on his sincerity, his generosity, his undeviating fidelity
and good-humour, till my heart smote me to think of all he suffered for my sake; and I began
to wonder whether I was worthy of being so much cared for, and whether I was justified in throwing
all this faith and truth away.

Reader, have you ever lived for weeks and weeks in a place which bored you to death? Have you
learned to loathe every tree and shrub and hedge-row in the dreary landscape? Have you shivered
up and down the melancholy walks, and yawned through the dull, dark rooms, till you began to
think the hour never would arrive that was to restore you once again to liberty and light?
And then, when the hour has come at last, have you been able to take your departure without
some half-reproachful feeling akin to melancholy--without some slight shade of regret to think
that much as you have hated it, you look upon it all now for the last time? Perhaps the sun
breaks out and shines upon the old place as you catch your last glimpse. Ah! it never used
to shine like that when you could see it from those windows every day; you almost wish your
departure had been put off till the morrow; you think if you were back again, the walks would
not be so very melancholy, the rooms no longer so dull and gloomy. You sigh because you are
leaving it, and wonder at yourself for doing so. It is the same thing with friends, and more
especially with those who would fain assume a tenderer title: we never know their value but
by their loss.

"If it wasn't for Frank," I began to think, "I really believe I might have been very happy
with Cousin John. Of course, it's impossible now; and, as he says himself, he'll never be anything
but a cousin to me. Poor John! he's a noble, true-hearted, unselfish, generous fellow."

But to return to my walk. When a lady and gentleman meet each other by appointment, either
at the edge of the Serpentine or elsewhere, their conversation is not generally of a nature
to be related in detail, nor is it to be presumed that their colloquy would prove as interesting
to the general public as to themselves. What I learnt of Frank's private history, his views,
feelings, and intentions, on that morning, I may as well give in my own words, suppressing
divers interruptions, protestations, and interjections, which, much as they added to its zest,
necessarily rather impeded the course of the narrative, and postponed its completion till long
after I ought to have been back at luncheon.

Frank had been an only child, and spoiled as only children are in nine cases out of ten. His
father was a peer's second son, and married a wealthy cotton-spinner's niece for the sake of
her money, which money lasted him about as long as his own constitution. When he died, the
widow was left with ten thousand pounds and the handsome, curly-pated, mischievous boy. She
soon followed her husband. Poor thing, she was very fond of him, and he had neglected her shamefully.
The boy went to his uncle--the peer, not to his uncle the mill-owner--to be brought up. Frank
was consequently what the world calls a "well-bred one;" his name was in the Peerage, though
he had a first cousin once removed who was but an industrious weaver. The peer, of course,
sent him to Eton.

"Ten thousand pounds," said that judicious relative, "will buy him his commission. The lad's
handsome and clever; he can play whist now better than my boy's private tutor. By the time
his ten thousand's gone, we'll pick up an heiress for him. 'Gad! how like my poor brother he
is about the eyes!"

So Frank was started in life with a commission in the Light Dragoons, an extremely good opinion
of himself, and as much of his ten thousand pounds as he had not already anticipated during
the one term he spent at Oxford before he was rusticated. By the way, so many of my partners,
and other young gentlemen with whom I am acquainted, have gone through this process, that it
was many years before I understood the meaning of the term. For long I understood rustication
to be merely a playful form of expression for "taking a degree;" and I was the more confirmed
in this impression from observing that those who had experienced this treatment were spoken
of with high respect and approbation by their fellow-collegians.

What odd creatures young men are! I can understand their admiring prowess in field-sports and
athletic pursuits, just as I could understand one's admiring a statesman, an author, an artist,
or a successful man in any pursuit of life; but why they should think it creditable to get
drunk, to run into debt, to set at defiance all the rules and regulations enacted for their
own benefit, and to conduct themselves in unswerving opposition to the wishes of their nearest
and dearest friends, and all to do themselves as much harm as possible, is more than I can
comprehend. Girls are not wrong-headed like this. Where the son is the source of all the annoyance,
and ill-humour, and retrenchment in a family, the daughter is generally the mainstay, and comfort,
and sunshine of the whole house. When shall we poor women be done justice to? But to return
to Frank. By his own account he was a gambler, of course. A man turned loose upon the world,
with such an education as most English gentlemen deem befitting their sons, and without means
to indulge the tastes that education has led him to acquire, is very likely to become so.

As a boy, the example of his elders teaches him to look upon frivolous distinction as a great
end and aim of life, whilst that of his comrades leads him to neglect all study as dry, to
despise all application as "slow." At home he hears some good-looking, grown-up cousin, or
agreeable military uncle, admired and commented on for being "such a capital shot," "such a
good cricket-player," "such an undeniable rider to hounds," what wonder the boy grows up thinking
that these accomplishments alone are the very essentials of a gentleman? At school, if he makes
an effort at distinction in school-hours, he is stigmatized by his comrades as a "sap," and
derided for his pursuit of the very object it is natural to suppose he has been sent there
to attain. What wonder he hugs idleness as his bosom-friend, and loses all his powers of application
in their disuse.

Then come the realities of manhood, for which he is so ill prepared. In the absence of all
useful knowledge and practical pursuits, amusement becomes the business of life. Human nature
cannot be idle, and if not doing good, is pretty sure to be doing harm. Pleasure, excitement,
and fashionable dissipation must be purchased, and paid for pretty dearly, in hard coin of
the realm. The younger son, with his ten thousand pounds, must soar in the same flight, must
"go as fast" as his elder brother with ten thousand a year. How is it to be done? Why, of course,
he must make money, if he can, by betting and play. So it goes on smoothly enough for a time.
The Arch-croupier below, they say, arranges these matters for beginners; but the luck turns
at last. The capital is eaten into; the Jews are called in; and the young gentleman is ruined.
Frank, I think, at this time was in a fair way of arriving pretty rapidly at the customary
catastrophe. He had gone through the whole educational process I have described above, had
been regularly and systematically "spoilt," was a habitual gambler, and a confirmed "dandy."
The ladies all liked him much, and I confess I don't wonder at it. Always good-humoured, never
sentimental (I hate a sentimental man), invariably well dressed, with a very good opinion of
his own attractions, Frank could make himself agreeable in all societies. He had never been
troubled with shyness as a boy, and in his manhood was as "cool a hand" as one would meet with
often, even in London. Then he had plenty of courage, which made the men respect him; and,
above all, was very good-looking--an advantage which, doubtless, has a certain weight even
with our far-sighted and reflective sex.

I never quite made out the rights of his liaison, or whatever people call it, with Lady Scapegrace;
nor do I think his own account entirely satisfactory. He assured me that he met her first of
all at a masked ball in Paris, that she mistook him for some one else, and confided a great
deal to his ears which she would not have entrusted to any one save the individual she supposed
him to be; that when she discovered her mistake she was in despair, and that his discretion
and respect for her feelings had made her his fast friend for life. I cannot tell how this
may be, but that they were great friends I have had reason to know too well. He declared, however,
that he looked upon her "quite as a sister." I do not think, though she is always very kind
to me, that I should exactly like her for a sister-in-law. I certainly have known Lady Scapegrace
do most extraordinary things--such things as no other woman would be permitted to do without
drawing down the abuse of the world. If she had been fair, and rosy, and pleasing, people would
have scouted her; but she was dark, and stern, and commanding. The world was afraid of her,
and it is very true that "in the world one had better be feared than loved." Scandal did not
dare say all it thought of Lady Scapegrace; and if she brought Frank Lovell home in her carriage,
or went to the opera alone with Count Coquin, or was seen, day after day, perambulating Kensington
Gardens arm in arm with young Greenfinch of the Life Guards, instead of shouting and hissing,
and, so to speak, pelting her off the stage, the world lifted its fingers to its lips, shrugged
up its worldly shoulders, and merely remarked,--

"Always was very odd, poor woman! Hers has been a curious history--little cracked, I think,
now--but what a handsome creature she was years ago, when I left school, before you were born,
my boy!"

Whatever may have been her carelessness of appearances and levity of manner, I think it was
never for an instant supposed that she liked any human being half so much as she hated Sir
Guy. Then, again, Sir Guy and Frank were fast friends, almost inseparable. They say Frank kept
things right between the ill-assorted pair, and that his good offices had many a time interposed
to prevent scenes of abuse and violence such as must have ended in a separation at least. I
was not quite clear that Frank's regard for the coach-driving baronet was alone at the bottom
of all this friendship. I cannot conceive two men much worse suited to each other; but Frank
vowed, when I cross-questioned him on the subject, which I thought I had a right to do, that
he was under the greatest possible obligations to Sir Guy, that the latter had even lent him
money, and stood by him when such assistance was most valuable; and that he looked upon him
as a brother, just as he looked upon her ladyship as a sister. It seems to have been quite
a family party altogether. Frank warmed with the topic.

"You will hear me talked about with all sorts of people, Kate," said he, as we took about our
twentieth turn, each of which I had protested should be the last; "but the world is so officious
and mischief-making, you must never believe a word it says. They know I am ruined, and they
choose to decide that I must be making up to some wealthy young lady. As if I was a man to
marry for money; as if I cared for anything on earth but one person, and that for the sake
of her own dear self alone! You ask me about Miss Molasses; you declare I am continually riding
with her, and dancing with her, and what you ladies call 'paying her attention'--that yellow
lackadaisical miss! Do you think I would marry her if she had half a million? Do you think
I could stand those sentimental airs, that smattering of learning, and affectation of being
poetical, and romantic, and blue--I, who have only lately learned what a woman should be, and
what a treasure such a woman is? No, no; I have known the whole family from a child; I can't
quite stand the lady part of it, but old Molasses is a right good fellow, and one must be civil
to them all. No, no, Kate; with my many faults, I am a very different person from what you
seem to think. I have my hopes and wishes, certainly, but----"

I can't possibly go on to relate the conclusion of Frank's rhapsody, but he took great pains
to convince me that if there was ever a high-principled, pure-minded, much-injured individual,
that exemplary character was the gentleman now walking by my side; and I was convinced, but
at the same time not exactly satisfied. In thinking over the whole of our conversation, I could
gather nothing very definite, nothing that led to any particular result, from it.

One thing was clear to my mind, and that was at all events a gratifying reflection. Frank did
not seem to be aware that I had any worldly prospects whatever: it was evident that if he liked
me he liked me entirely for myself. I confess I should not wish to be a great heiress; I should
always be fancying that it was the "fine eyes of my casket," as the French say, which attracted
my admirers, and I could not stand that. No, Frank was not mercenary, I was sure, and if even--why
the competency I should be possessed of would be an agreeable surprise. If, indeed! Nothing
was clear, nothing was settled. What a fool I was to dwell so upon an uncertainty, to anchor
my hopes upon a dream! I was not at all comfortable that afternoon: the more I thought, the
more I walked about my boudoir in a state of high fidget and restlessness. One thing, however,
was consolatory--the frost was breaking. Already in London it was a decided thaw, and I went
to pay Brilliant a visit in the stable.

Now I dare say I shall be considered very bold and unladylike, and unfeminine--that's the word--for
owning that I do indeed enjoy paying my favourites a visit in their comfortable quarters. It's
worth a good deal to see Brilliant's reception of me when I approach his stable. From the instant
I enter his abode and he hears my voice, he begins to move restlessly to and fro, whisking
his dear tail, cocking his ears, and pawing up his "litter," till indeed that word alone describes
the state to which he reduces his bed; then when I go up to him he lays back his ears with
sheer delight, and gives a jump, as if he was going to kick me, and whisks that thin tail about
more than ever. I lay my cheek to his smooth soft skin, and he nestles his beautiful head in
my arms, and pokes his pretty muzzle into my pockets, and seems to ask for bits of bread and
sugar and other delicacies, all of which are conferred upon him forthwith. I am sure he has
more sense than a dog, and a great deal more affection than most men. I don't care how slang
and "bad style" people may think me, but I feel every one of those strong flat black legs,
and look into his hoofs, hind-feet and all, and turn his rug up to see that he has been properly
cleaned and treated as he deserves; for I love Brilliant, and Brilliant loves me. It has sometimes
been my lot to have an aching heart, as I conclude it is the lot of all here below. Like the
rest of my fellow-creatures, I have been stung by ingratitude, lacerated by indifference where
I had a right to expect attachment; or, worst of all, forced to confess myself deceived where
I had bestowed regard and esteem. When I feel sore and unhappy on any or all of these points,
nothing consoles and softens me so much as the affection of a dumb animal, more particularly
a horse. His honest grave face seems to sympathize in one's grief, without obtruding the impertinence
of curiosity or the mockery of consolation. He gives freely the affection one has been disappointed
in finding elsewhere, and seems to stand by one in his brute vigour and generous unreasoning
nature like a true friend. I always feel inclined to pour my griefs into poor Brilliant's unintelligent
ears, and many a tear have I shed nestling close to my favourite, with my arms round him like
a child's round its nurse's neck. That very afternoon, when I had made sure there was no one
else in the stable, I leaned my head against Brilliant's firm warm neck, and sobbed, like a
fool as I was.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Gentlemen think it right to affect a contempt for stag-hunting, and many a battle have I had
with Cousin John when he has provoked me by "pooh-poohing" that exhilarating amusement. I generally
get the best of the argument. I put a few pertinent questions to him which he cannot answer
satisfactorily. I ask him, "What is your principal object in going out hunting? Is it to learn
the habits of the wild animal, or to watch the instinct of the hound that pursues him? Do you
enjoy seeing a fox walked to death, as you call it, on a cold scenting day--or do you care
for the finest hunting run that ever was seen in a woodland country? Have I not heard you say
a hundred times, when questioned as to your morning sport, 'Oh, wretched! hounds never went
any pace!--couldn't shake off the crowd--yes, we killed our fox; but the whole thing was dead
slow?' or else exclaim, with a face of delight, 'The fastest thing I have seen for years! Eighteen
minutes up wind, extra pace! not a soul but myself in the same field with them when they threw
their heads up. Fox was back, of course, and we never recovered him, but it was by far the
best gallop of the season?' It is evident to me that what you like is riding a good hunter
fast over a stiff country--going a turn better than your neighbours, and giving your own skill
that credit which is due to the superiority of your horse. You only consider the hounds as
a fleeting object at which to ride; the fox as a necessary evil, without which all this 'rasping'
and 'bruising' and 'cutting down,' as you call it in your ridiculous jargon, cannot be attained.
Why, then, do you waste so much energy, and money, and civility, and 'soft-sawder,' to preserve
the vulpine race? Why don't you all hunt with stag-hounds, or, better still, devote yourselves
to a drag, when you may gallop and jump and bustle about, and upset your horses, and break
your own necks to your heart's content?" To all of which John answers, as men invariably do
when they are worsted, that "women can't enter into these things, and I am talking great nonsense
about what I don't understand."

However, let him despise "the calf," as he termed it, as much as he liked, I was not going
to be stewed up in London, with the wind at south-west, the thermometer 45°, and the mud over
one's ankles, whilst Brilliant and White Stockings were eating their heads off in the stable,
so I took advantage of John's good nature to exact a promise that he would take me down and
show me her Majesty's stag-hounds in the field; and on the express stipulation that Mrs. Lumley
should join our party, and that we should confine ourselves religiously to the lanes, I was
promised the enjoyment of a day's hunting. John did everything I asked him now; he was even
kinder than he used to be; but it was a different sort of kindness, and it cut me to the heart.

Still, the idea was enchanting: the Great Western made a delightful cover-hack. We sent our
horses on by the early train. The place of meeting was scarcely three miles from the station,
so we had time to settle ourselves comfortably in the saddle, and to avoid the fuss and parade
of two ladies in their habits stepping out of a first-class carriage into the midst of a metropolitan
field. I ran my eye jealously over the brown mare as Mrs. Lumley jogged quietly along by my
side, and I confess I had my misgivings whilst contemplating the easy pliant seat and firm
graceful figure of her mistress, the strong lengthy frame and beautiful proportions of the
mare herself; but then Brilliant felt so light and elastic under me, the day was so soft and
fresh, the country air so fragrant, and the dewdrops sparkling so brilliantly on the leafless
hedges, that my courage rose with my spirits, and I felt as if I could ride anywhere or do
anything in sheer gladness of heart.

"Mr. Jones is very strict," said my companion, taking the brown mare lightly on the curb, and
putting her into a canter along a level piece of sward by the roadside; "he declares he only
takes charge of us under the solemn promise that there is to be no jumping. For my part, I
never do what I am told, Kate; do you?"

"I always do as I like with John," said I; "but then I always like to do what he wishes."

My cousin's sorrowful smile almost brought the tears into my eyes.

"I dare say he's quite right," rejoined Mrs. Lumley. "For my part, I've no nerves left now.
If you'll promise not to jump, I'll promise too. What say you, Kate--is it a bargain?"

"Agreed," I replied; and just then a turn in the lane brought us into full view of the meet
of her Majesty's stag-hounds.

What a motley assemblage it was! At first I could not catch a glimpse of the hounds themselves,
or even the servants, for the crowd, mostly of foot-people, that surrounded them. Where did
these queer-looking pedestrians come from? They were not agricultural labourers; they were
not townspeople, nor operatives, nor mechanics; they were the sort of people that one never
sees except on such an occasion as this. I believe if I was in the habit of attending low pigeon
matches, dog fights, or steeplechases, in the "Harrow County," I should recognize most of them
enjoying the spectacle of such diversions. One peculiarity I remarked amongst them, with scarcely
an exception. Although in the last stage of shabbiness, their clothes had all been once of
fashionable texture and good material; but they entirely neglected the "unities" in their personal
apparel. A broadcloth coat, much the worse for wear, was invariably surmounted by a greasy
cap; whilst he who rejoiced in a beaver, usually battered in at the crown and encircled by
a tag of threadbare crape, was safe to have discarded his upper garment, and to appear in his
waistcoat and shirt-sleeves. A wiry sweep, in the full uniform of his profession, was by far
the most respectable-looking personage of the lot. They clustered round the pack, and seemed
to make remarks, more or less sarcastic, amongst themselves. As they opened out a little, I
observed a very aristocratic-looking old man, clad in most gorgeous apparel of scarlet and
gold, and seated on a remarkably handsome, powerful horse, long and low, with great strength
in small compass, and to all appearance quite thoroughbred.

"That's the huntsman," said Mrs. Lumley, who kindly undertook to be my cicerone, for she often
enjoyed "a day with the Queen's," and was quite at home here; "he'll be so glad to see me.
We're great friends. If you like, Kate, I'll introduce you."

I declined the honour as rather too public. "But," said I, "do tell me who is in that green
carriage with its back to us. Is it Prince Albert?" Mrs. Lumley laughed.

"Not exactly, my dear," she replied; "that's the calf! Come a little this way; and when they
open the door we shall see him bounce out." So we edged our horses off to a spot at which the
foot-people were already beginning to congregate, and sat there quietly anticipating the "enlargement
of the deer."

"What are we waiting for now?" I asked at length, when my patience was nearly worn out. "Why
don't we begin?"

"The Master of the Buck hounds, of course," replied my cicerone. "He's not come yet. You know,
Kate, it's a political appointment, and they generally give it to somebody who hates hunting,
and particularly stag-hunting, more than anything; so, of course, he wisely comes as late and
goes home as early as he can. But this man is a good sportsman and a thorough gentleman, and
very fond of it too, so we shall not have to wait much longer."

In fact, the words were hardly out of her mouth before a carriage-and-four drove up containing
three very gentleman-like, good-looking men, "got up" to the utmost extent of hunting splendour,
and looking the very personification of that dandyism which Melton engrafted upon London would
be likely to produce. When they were mounted, I am obliged to confess that those magnificent
animals made Brilliant himself look small. By this time there was great excitement amongst
the foot-people; and an official in gold lace, a sort of mounted beadle, riding up with a heavy-thonged
whip, cleared a lane at the back of the cart which I had so erroneously imagined to contain
the Prince Consort. The doors flew open, and I was all eyes to witness the magnificent sight
of "the monarch of the waste" leaping forth into the sunshine, exulting in his freedom. Shall
I confess that I was somewhat disappointed?

A neutral-coloured beast, something like a donkey, bundled out in a clumsy, unwilling sort
of manner, and on his egress commenced cropping the grass with the utmost sang froid and placidity.
My friend the sweep threw his cap at him. He raised his head, shorn of its branching honours,
and, after staring about him, trotted quietly off amongst the spectators, closely followed
by two well-mounted officials, termed, I believe, "flappers" by disrespectful sportsmen, but
whose duty, it appears, is to keep the chase in view till it either beats them off for pace,
or leaves them "planted" at some large awkward impediment, the latter obstacle generally presenting
itself in about three fields. On this occasion I saw the deer trot quite composedly up to a
high thorn fence of at least six feet, and clear it without an effort; whereon its pursuers,
looking blandly around for gate or gap, and finding none, prudently returned to their fellow-officials
in scarlet and gold lace--I conclude, to report upon their own inefficiency. In the meantime
nobody seemed to be in a hurry; there was, indeed, some slight stir among the equestrians;
but there was no throwing away of cigars, no drawing of girths and taking up of curb-chains--none
of the bustle and confusion created by the departure of a wild fox over a grass country. On
the contrary, every one here seemed to know exactly how much time he had to spare. We ladies
were naturally the most impatient of the throng. Presently the huntsman looked at his watch,
and said something to the noble master, who looked at his, and replied, "I think we may begin."

There was a slight bustle among the "knowing ones;" two or three officers of the Life Guards
stole forward a few paces; one of the officials cracked his whip; and ere I knew exactly what
had happened, the hounds were streaming away over an adjoining field, "heads up and sterns
down," running perfectly mute, but at a pace which would have astonished my old friends of
the Heavytop country to no small extent. Several desperate speculators were making frightful
efforts for a start. Two of the Life Guardsmen were settled with the hounds, and the third
would have been, had he not been "turned over" by an uncompromising flight of rails. Four London
dealers and a young Berkshire farmer were flourishing about, determined to show their horses
whilst they were fresh; the noble Master and his aristocratic friends were pounding down a
lane running parallel to the line of chase. Mrs. Lumley was getting excited, and the Gitana
reared straight on end. Brilliant was fighting most disagreeably with his bridle, and John
nervously endeavouring to quiet our horses, and prevail on ourselves to submit to his guidance.
We did follow him into the lane; but here what a scene of confusion it was! Mild equestrians,
much at the mercy of their infuriated steeds; hot foot-people, springing out of the way of
the charging squadrons, and revenging themselves for threatened annihilation by sarcastic jeers,
not altogether undeserved.

"Give me a lead, sir!" implored a good-looking light-weight--who was evidently not in his usual
place, and most anxious to get out of the lane--to a fat, jolly old sportsman in a green coat
and brass buttons on a stiff bay horse.

"Certainly, sir," said the good-natured man; and turned his horse short at the fence, closely
followed by the gentleman he was so ready to oblige. The bank was rotten and the bay horse
unwilling. As might have been expected, the green coat kissed mother earth, whilst his own
horse and his pursuer and his pursuer's horse rolled about on the top of him in a most complicated
game of all-fours. As they picked each other up, I heard the fat man in green, much to my astonishment,
apologizing for the accident with the greatest empressement.

"A thousand pardons, my dear sir! How could I be so clumsy? It might have been a most serious
accident!" All of which excuses the aggressor, as was to be expected, received with boundless
affability and good-humour. In the meantime we had a beautiful view of the run. The hounds
were still streaming away, two fields in front of every one; the huntsman and the two officers
going gallantly abreast in their wake. One of them reminded me a little of Frank Lovell. The
noble Master, too, had cut in, and was striding along over every obstacle; the London dealers
had dropped somewhat in the rear, and the farmer's horse was already completely sobered by
the pace. The hounds turned towards us. John entreated us to stop. They crossed the lane under
our horses' heads, and taking up the scent in the adjoining pasture, went off again at score--not
a soul really with them.

"Flesh and blood can't stand this!" exclaimed Mrs. Lumley as, turning the Gitana short round
at a high stile with a foot-board, she landed lightly in the field. "Don't attempt it, Kate!"
she screamed out to me, half turning in her saddle. I heard John's voice too, raised in expostulation,
but it was too late. I was already in the air. I thought Brilliant never would come to the
ground; and when he did touch it, he was so excited with his previous restraint and his present
position, that he broke clean away with me. I was a little frightened, but I never lost my
nerve. I flew past Mrs. Lumley like an arrow; and though she put the Gitana to her speed, and
made my horse more violent still as she thundered close upon his quarters, I was too proud
to ask her to give me a pull, and a wicked, jealous feeling rose in my heart that was an excellent
substitute for true courage at the time. My horse was almost frantic; but fortunately he knew
my voice, and by speaking to him I was able to steady him before we reached the fence. He bounded
over it like a deer, and went quite quietly, now that he had nothing before him but the hounds.
I had never known till now what it was to ride for myself. Hitherto I had always followed a
leader, but henceforth I resolved to enjoy the true pleasure of finding my own way. I looked
back. I was positively first, but Mrs. Lumley was not fifty yards behind me, and coming up rapidly.

"Well done, Kate!" said she as we flew our third fence side by side. Still the hounds fleeted
on, and I never took my eye off them, but urged my horse in their wake, taking every turn they
did, and swerving from nothing. Fortunately, Brilliant was thoroughbred and the fences light,
or, even with my weight, such a style of riding must soon have produced fatal results. I shall
never go again as well as I did that day; but do what I would I could not shake off Mrs. Lumley.
If I lost sight of her for an instant, she was sure to gain a turn upon me, and on one or two
occasions she was actually in my front. I felt I could have ridden into a chalk pit, and dared
her to follow me with the greatest satisfaction. At last the hounds checked; we stood alone
with them; I felt almost delirious with the excitement.

"What an example we have made of the gentlemen, Kate," said Mrs. Lumley, turning the Gitana's
head to the wind. "I had no idea you could ride like this."

I did not answer, but I thought "Wait a little, and I'll show you." I felt I hated her, though
she was my friend. Again the hounds stooped to the scent; they crossed a deep narrow lane,
up which I saw the crowd advancing. I put my horse into his pace.

"You can't go there, Kate," vociferated Mrs. Lumley. "This way; here's a gate in this corner."

I clenched my teeth, and rode straight for the fence. It looked dark and forbidding. I did
not see how it was to be done, but I trusted to Brilliant, and Brilliant nearly did it--but
not quite. There was a loud crash; one of my pommels gave me an awkward dig in the side. I
saw the white star on my horse's forehead shoot below me; and the muddy, gravelly lane seemed
to rise in my face and rasp my hands and smear my habit, and get conglomerated with my hair.
The horsemen were all round me when I got up. I did not care for my accident; I did not care
for being bruised--in fact, I did not know whether I was hurt or not--but my prevailing feeling
was one of burning shame and horror as I thought of my dress. To have had a fall amongst all
those men! I could have sunk into the earth and thanked it for covering me. But there was no
lack of sympathy and assistance. The huntsman pulled up; the noble Master offered me his carriage
to go back to London; everybody stopped to tender advice and condolences.

"The lady's had a fall."--"Give the lady some sherry."--"Catch the lady's horse."--"Can we
render the lady any assistance?" John, of course, was much distressed and annoyed, but glad
to find I was not seriously hurt. Mrs. Lumley only stood aloof and sneered. "I told you not
to ride there, Kate," said she; "and what a fall you've had--amongst all these people, too!"
She very nearly made me an enemy for life.

I was too much hurt to go on. The stag was taken, as usual, in a large pond about a mile from
where I met with my accident; but our party had had enough of hunting for one day. I am sure
I had; and I think the Gitana was nearly beat, though her mistress would not confess it. We
soon got back to the station, where I washed my face and put myself to rights. After all, I
was very little the worse, and everybody said I had "gone like a bird." As we returned to London
by the fast train, and I sat in that comfortable, well-cushioned carriage, enjoying the delightful
languor of rest after fatigue, I half resolved to devote my whole life to a sport which was
capable of affording such thrilling excitement as that which I had so recently enjoyed. I had
never been so happy, I thought, in my existence as whilst I was leading the field on my dear
Brilliant. It was a pure, wholesome, legitimate excitement; there were no harassing doubts
and fears, no wounded feelings and bitter thoughts, no hours and days of suspense and misery
to atone for a few short moments of delight. If I was disappointed in other things, could I
not devote myself wholly to hunting, and so lead a happy and harmless life? If I had been a
man, I should have answered in the affirmative; but I am a woman, and gradually softer thoughts
stole over me. A distant vision of a happy home, with home-interests and home-pleasures--others
to love, others to care for, besides myself--all a woman's duties, and all a woman's best delights.
I shut my eyes and tried to realize the picture. When I opened them again, Mrs. Lumley had
gone fast to sleep; but John was watching me with a look of painful attention. He certainly
had acquired a very earnest, keen look of late, such as he never used to wear. I do not know
what prompted the question, but I could not forbear asking him, in a sort of half-laughing
way, "John, if I had broken my neck to-day, what on earth should you have done?"

"Mourned for you as a sister, Kate," he replied gravely, even severely. I did not speak another
word the whole way home.

CHAPTER XIX.

"I shall miss you sadly, Kate; but if you enjoy your visit I shall be quite satisfied."

It was Aunt Deborah who spoke. Dear Aunt Deborah! I felt as if I had not been half attentive
enough to her lately. I had selfishly been so taken up with my own thoughts and my own schemes
that I had neglected my poor suffering relative, and now my heart smote me for my want of consideration.
Aunt Deborah had not left the house since our return from Dangerfield. She looked worn and
old, but had the same kind smile, the same measured accents as ever. Though she endured a good
deal of pain and was kept in close confinement, she never complained: patient and quiet, she
had a kind word for every one; and even her maid avowed that "missus's" temper was that of
an angel. "Hangel," the maid called it, but it was perfectly true. Aunt Deborah must have had
something very satisfactory to look forward to, or she never would have been so light-hearted.
One thing I remarked, she was fonder of John than ever.

"I won't go, my dear aunt," was my reply, for my conscience smote me hard. "I won't go; I don't
care about it; I had much rather stay and nurse you here."

But Aunt Deborah wouldn't hear of it.

"No, no," said she, "my dear; you are at the right age to enjoy yourself. I don't know much
about Scamperley, and I have a far more charitable opinion of Lady Scapegrace than the world
in general; but I dare say you will have a pleasant party, and I can trust you anywhere with John."

There it was, John again--always John--and I knew exactly what John thought of me; and it made
me thoroughly despise myself. I reflected that if I were John, I should have a very poor opinion
of my cousin; I should consider her silly, vacillating, easily deceived, and by no means to
be depended upon; more than woman in her weaknesses, and less than woman in her affections.
"What a character! and what a contempt he must have for me!"

My cousin called to take me to the railway, and to accompany me as a chaperon on a visit to
Sir Guy and Lady Scapegrace, who were, as usual, "entertaining a distinguished party of fashionables
at their residence, Scamperley." By the way, what an odd phrase that same "entertaining" always
sounds to my ear. When I learn that the Marquis of Mopes has been "entertaining" his friends,
the Duke of Drearyshire, Count and Countess Crotchet, Viscount Inane, Sir Simon and Lady Sulkes,
the Honourable Hercules Heavyhead, etc., etc., at his splendid seat, Boudoir Castle, I cannot
refrain from picturing to myself the dignified host standing on his bald head for the amusement
of his immovable visitors, or otherwise, forgetful of his usual staid demeanour, performing
ludicrous antics, projecting disrespectful "larks," to woo a smile from those stolid countenances
in vain! Sir Guy might be "entertaining," too, in this way, but hardly in any other. What a
disagreeable man he was! although I could not help acknowledging his good nature in coming
to fetch us from the station himself.

As we emerged from the railway carriage, the first object that greeted my eyes was Sir Guy's
great gaudy drag, with its three piebalds and a roan. The first tones that smote on my ear
were those of his hoarse harsh voice (how it jarred upon my nerves!) in loud obstreperous welcome.

"Thought you'd come by this train, Miss Coventry," shouted Sir Guy from the box, without making
the slightest demonstration of descending; "laid Frank five to two on the event.--Done him
again, hey, Frank--I knew what you'd be up to; brought the drag over on purpose. Now then,
give us your hand; one foot on the box, one on the roller-bolt, and now you're landed. Jones,
my boy, get up behind. I've sent the van for servants and luggage. 'Gad! what a pretty maid
you've got. Let 'em go, and sit tight!"

So we rolled smoothly out, the piebalds shaking their harness and trotting merrily along, the
roan placed on the off-side, for the purpose of sustaining whatever amount of punishment our
charioteer thought fit to inflict.

Behold me, then, seated on the box of Sir Guy Scapegrace's drag! a pretty position for a young
lady who, during the last month or two, had been making daily resolutions of amendment as to
slang conduct and general levity of demeanour. How I hated myself, and loathed the very sight
of him, as I looked at my companion. Sir Guy was redder and fatter than when I had seen him
last; his voice was more dissonant, his neckcloth more alarming, his jewellery more prominent,
his hat closer shaved and the flower in his mouth less like a flower than ever. How came I
there? Why, because I was piqued, and hurt, and reckless. I was capable of almost any enormity.
John's manner to me in the train had well-nigh driven me mad. So quiet, so composed, so cold,
so kind and considerate, but a kindness and consideration such as that with which one treats
a child. He seemed to feel he was my superior; he seemed even to soothe and pity me. I would
have given worlds to have spoken frankly out to him, to have asked him what I had done to offend
him, even to have brought him back to that topic upon which I felt he would never enter more.
But it was impossible. I dared not wound that kind, generous heart again--I dared not trust
myself. No, he was only "Cousin John" now; he had said so himself. Surely he need not have
given me up quite so easily; surely I was worthy of an effort at least: yet I knew it had been
my own fault--though I would not allow it even to myself--and this I believe it was that rankled
and gnawed at my heart till I could hardly bear my own identity. It was a relief to do everything
I could think of to annoy him. To heap self-contempt on my wicked head, to show him I was reckless
of his good opinion as of my own, to lay up a store of agonizing reproaches for the future,
to gnash my teeth, as it were, and nerve myself into a savage indifference for the present.
Nay, there was even a diabolical pleasure in it. Frank Lovell occupied the seat behind me:
at another time I might have been gratified at his near neighbourhood, and annoyed to think
he should have been paying so long a visit to Scamperley. I was startled to find how little
I cared. He leaned over and whispered to me occasionally, and seemed pleased with the marked
encouragement I gave him. After all, I could not help liking Frank very much; and was not my
cousin at the back of the coach, to witness all that took place? But Sir Guy would not allow
me to be "monopolized," as he called it.

"You've lost your roses sadly in London, Miss Coventry," said he, poking his odious face almost
under my bonnet, and double-thonging the off-wheeler most unmercifully. "Never mind; I think
a woman looks best when she is pale. Egad, you've more colour now, though. Don't be angry,
it's only my way; you know I'm your slave."

"Sir Guy don't mean to be rude," whispered Frank, for I confess I was beginning to get indignant;
and the Baronet went on,--

"Do you remember our picnic at Richmond, Miss Coventry, and my promise that if ever you honoured
me by taking a place on my coach you should drive? Take hold of 'em now, there's a good girl;
you ought to know something about the ribbons, and the next four miles is quite straight, and
a dead flat."

I was in that state of mind that I should not have had the least scruple in upsetting the coach
and risking the lives of all upon it, my own included; but I know not what imp of evil prompted
me to turn round and call to my cousin at the back,--

"John, do you think I could drive four horses?"

"Pray don't," whispered Frank Lovell, who seemed to disapprove of the whole proceeding; but
I did not heed him, for my cousin never answered till I asked him again.

"Do as you like, Kate," was his reply, "only I shouldn't advise you to try;" but he looked
very grave, and seriously hurt and annoyed.

This was enough for me. I laughed aloud. I was determined to provoke him, and I changed places
with Sir Guy. He showed me how to part and hold the reins; he lectured me on the art of putting
horses together; he got into a state of high good-humour, and smiled, and swore, and patronized
me, and had the effrontery to call me a "d--d fine girl," and I never boxed his ears, though
I confess to having been once or twice sorely tempted. In short, I flirted with him shamefully,
and even Frank got grave and out of sorts. At last Sir Guy removed the flower from his mouth,
and pulled out his cigar-case.

"Have a weed, Miss Coventry!" said he, with his detestable leer. "Of course you smoke; any
one who can tool 'em along as you do must be able to smoke. Mine are very mild, let me choose
one for you."

I accepted his offer, though I had considerable misgivings as to whether it would not make
me sick. I looked round to see how my cousin approved of all these goings on, and particularly
this last cigar movement. He was sitting with his back to us, reading the morning newspaper,
apparently totally indifferent to my proceedings. That decided me. I would have smoked now
if there had been a barrel of gunpowder under my nose. I didn't care how sick it made me! I
lit my cigar from Sir Guy's, I suffered him to put his horrid red face close to mine. I flirted,
and laughed, and drove, and puffed away as if I had been used to these accomplishments all
my life. I rattled through the turnpike without stopping to pay, as if it were a good joke.
I double-thonged a sleeping carter over the face and eyes as I passed him. My near leader shied
at a wheelbarrow, and I almost swore as I rated him and flanked him, and exclaimed,--

"Confound you, I'll teach you to keep straight!"

As we drove into the Park at Scamperley--for I fearlessly rounded the avenue turn, and vowed
I would not abandon the reins till I had delivered my load at the front door--even Frank was
completely disgusted. My cousin took not the slightest notice, but kept his seat with his back
turned to the horses, and was still deep in his newspaper. Sir Guy was delighted; he shouted,
and grinned, and swore more than ever. I was a "trump"--I was a "girl of the right sort"--I
was a "well-bred one"--I had no end of "devil" in me--I was fit to be a "queen!" Whilst the
object of all these polished encomiums could willingly have burst out crying at a moment's
notice; indeed, she would have found it an unspeakable relief; and felt as she had never felt
before, and as she trusts in heaven she may never feel again.

It was a lovely spot Scamperley--beautiful as a dream--with the quiet woodland beauty of a
real English place. Such timber! Such an avenue! I wonder if any of the sporting dandies and
thoughtless visitors who came down "to stay with Scapegrace" because he had more pheasants
and better "dry" (meaning champagne) than anybody else ever thought of the many proprietors
those old oaks and chestnuts had seen pass away, the strange doings they must have witnessed
as generation after generation of Scapegraces lived their short hour and went to their account,
having done all the mischief they could, for they were a wild, wicked race from father to son.
The present Baronet's childhood was nursed in profligacy and excess. Sir Gilbert had been a
fitting sire to Sir Guy, and drank, and drove, and sinned, and turned his wife out-of-doors,
and gathered his boon companions about him, and placed his heir, a little child, upon the table,
and baptized him, in mockery, with blood-red wine; and one fine morning he was found dead in
his dressing-room, with a dark stream stealing slowly along the floor. They talked of "broken
blood-vessels," and "hard living," and "a full habit;" but some people thought he had died
by his own hand; and the dressing-room was shut up and made a lumber-room of, and nobody ever
used it any more. However, it was the only thing to save the family. A long minority put the
present possessor fairly on his legs again, and the oaks and the chestnuts were spared the
fate that had seemed too surely awaiting them. Nor was this the only escape they had experienced.
A Scapegrace of former days had served in the Parliamentary army during his father's lifetime;
had gone over to the king at his death; had fought at Edgehill and Marston Moor--and to do
Sir Neville justice, he could fight like a demon; had abandoned the royal cause when it was
hopeless, and, by betraying his sovereign, escaped the usual fate and amercement of malcontent--the
Protector remarking, with a certain solemn humour, "that Sir Neville was an instrument in the
hand of the Lord, but that Satan had a share in him, which doubtless he would not fail to claim
in due time." So Sir Neville lived at Scamperley in abundance and honour, and preserved his
oaks and his rents, and professed the strictest Puritanism; and died in a fit brought on by
excessive drinking to the success of the Restoration, when he heard that Charles had landed,
and the king was really "to enjoy his own again." He was succeeded by his grandson Sir Montague,
the best-looking, the best-hearted, and the weakest of his race. There was a picture of him
hanging over against the great staircase--a handsome, well-proportioned man, with a woman's
beauty of countenance, and more than womanly softness of expression. Lady Scapegrace and I
have stopped and gazed at it for hours.

"He's not very like the present Baronet, my dear," she would say, her haughty features gathering
into a sneer--and Lady Scapegrace's sneer was that of Mephistopheles himself; "he is beautiful,
exceedingly. I love to look at his hazel eyes, his low antique brow, his silky chestnut hair,
and his sweet melancholy smile. Depend upon it, Kate, no man with such a smile as that is ever
capable of succeeding in any one thing he undertakes. I don't care what his intellect may be,
I don't care what animal courage he may possess, however dashing his spirit, however chivalrous
his sentiments--so surely as he has woman's strength of affection, woman's weakness of heart,
so surely must he go to the wall. I have seen it a hundred times, Kate, and I never knew it
otherwise."

Since the affair of the bull Lady Scapegrace had contracted a great affection for me, and would
have me to roam about the house with her for hours. She was a clever, intellectual woman, without
one idea or sentiment in common with her husband. In this state of mental widowhood she had
consoled herself by study, amongst other things; and the history of the family into which she
had married afforded her ample materials for reflection and research. She had collected every
scrap of writing, every private memorandum, letter, and document that could throw any light
upon the subject; and I verily believe she could have concocted a highly interesting volume,
detailing the exploits and misdeeds, the fortunes and misfortunes, of the Scapegraces.

"I know all about him, Kate," she would proceed, fixing her great hollow eyes upon my face,
and laying her hand on my arm, as was her habit when interested. "He is my pet amongst the
family, though I despise him thoroughly. You see that distant castle, sufficiently badly painted,
in the corner of the picture? That was the residence of her who exercised such a fatal influence
over the life of poor Sir Montague. All his little sonnets, some of them touching and pretty
enough, are addressed to 'The Lady Mabel.' I have found two or three of his love-letters, probably
returned by her, tied up in a faded bit of ribbon; there is also one note from the lady to
her admirer; such a production, Kate! Not a word but what is misspelt, not a sentence of common
grammar in the whole of it; and yet this was the woman he broke his heart for! Look well at
him, my dear, and you will see why. With all its beauty, such a face as that was made to be
imposed upon. The Lady Mabel, however, seems to have been a notable strong-minded personage
enough. She acknowledges the receipt of her lover's letters; which, however, without condescending
to give any further explanation, she avers 'came to hand at an untoward moment,' and finishes
by sending him a receipt for making elderflower wine--assuring him, with a certain sly malice,
that it is 'a sovereign specific against colic, vertigo, and all ailments of the heart and
stomach!' What a contrast to his protestations endorsed, 'These, with haste--ride--ride--ride!'
which many a good horse must have been spurred and hurried to deliver. How he rings the changes
upon his unalterable and eternal devotion! How he implores 'his dear heart' never to forget
him! and calls her 'his sweet life,' and protests that 'he welcomes the very night-breeze blowing
from the castle, because it must have swept past the windows of his love!' and pours out his
foolish heart like a child pouring water into a sieve. Lady Mabel, however, seems to have been
proof against sentiment, as she undoubtedly was against good looks. From all that I can gather,
she appears to have made use of her adorer in furtherance of sundry political schemes, such
as were so numerous at that period, and to have thrown him away, like a rusty blade, when she
had no further occasion for his services. I cannot help thinking she despised him thoroughly.
There are certain bills and memoranda, with his signature attached, relating to levies of men
and great purchases of arms, which look as if he had plunged into some desperate enterprise,
doubtless at her instigation; and in his sonnets there are frequent allusions to 'winning her
by the sword,' 'loving her to the death,' and such Quixotic protestations, that look as if
he had at one time meditated an unusually daring stroke. He was a fool," said Lady Scapegrace
reflectively, "but he was a fine fellow, too, to throw wealth, life, and honour at the feet
of a woman who was not worth a throb of that kind, generous heart, a drop of that loyal, gallant
blood!

"Then he married, I can't quite make out why, as there is a considerable gap in the correspondence
of the family about this time, only partially connected by the diary of an old chaplain, who
seems to have been formerly tutor to Sir Montague, and to have cherished a great regard for
his pupil. The lady was a foreigner and a Romanist; and although we have no picture of her,
we gather from the reverend chronicler that she was 'low of stature, dark-browed, and swarthy
in complexion,' though he gallantly adds that she was 'doubtless pleasing to the eyes of those
who loved such southern beauty.' At the wedding it appears that Lady Mabel was present; and
'my good master's attire and ornaments,' consisting of 'peach-coloured doublet, and pearl-silken
hose, and many gems of unspeakable price, dazzling to the sight of humble men,' are detailed
with strange minuteness and fidelity. Even the plume in his hat and the jewelled hilt of his
rapier are dwelt upon at considerable length. But notwithstanding his magnificence, the worthy
chaplain did not fail to remark that 'my good master seemed ill at ease, and the vertigo seizing
him during the ceremony, he must have fallen had I not caught him something cunningly under
the arm-pits, assisted by worthy Master Holder and one of the groomsmen.' The chaplain, who
seems to have been as blind as became his reverend character, cannot forbear from expressing
his admiration of the Lady Mabel, whom he describes as 'fair and comely in colour, like the
bloom of the spring rose; of a buxom stature, and of a lofty gait and gestures withal.' What
was she doing at Sir Montague's wedding? No wonder the old attack of 'vertigo,' which her elderflower
wine seems rather to have increased, should have come on again.

"One thing is pretty clear, the Baronet detested his wife (the Scapegraces have generally owned
that amiable weakness, my dear). I think it must have been in consequence of her religion that
he became so strenuous a supporter of the opposite faith. At last he joined Monmouth, and still
the correspondence seems to have gone on, for the night before Sedgmoor he wrote her a letter.
Such a letter, Kate! I was lucky enough to get it from a descendant of the lady, who was under
great obligations to me; I'll show it you to-morrow. No man with that mouth could have written
such a letter, except when death was looking him in the face. I often think when she got it
she must have given way at last. But it was too late. He was killed in the first charge made
by the royal troops. His own regiment, raw recruits and countrymen, turned at the first shot;
but he died like a Scapegrace, waving his hat and cheering them on. We are rather proud of
him in the family, after all. Compared with the rest of them, his was a harmless life and a
creditable end."

"But what became of Lady Mabel?" I asked; for I confess I was a little interested in this disjointed
romance of long-past days.

"Did you ever know a thoroughly unfeeling person in your life that did not prosper?" was her
ladyship's reply; and again her features writhed into the Mephistopheles' sneer. "Lady Mabel
married an earl, and had sons and daughters, and lived to a green old age. I have seen a picture
of her at fifty, and she was still 'fair and comely and buxom' as when she dazzled the old
chaplain's eyes and broke Sir Montague's heart. Yes, yes, Kate, there's nothing like a sensible
woman; she's the evergreen in the garden, and blooms, and buds, and puts forth fresh shoots,
when the rose is lying withered and trampled into the earth; but for all that, she has never
had the charm of the rose, and never can have."

Such is a specimen of one of my many conversations with Lady Scapegrace, whom I liked more
and more the better I knew her. But I have been anticipating sadly during my drive of Sir Guy's
coach up Sir Guy's avenue. When I reached the front door, with all my recklessness, I felt
glad to see no head poking out of windows--above all, no female witness to my unwomanly conduct.
I felt thoroughly ashamed of myself as I got down from the box; and I confess it was with feelings
of intense relief that a polite groom of the chambers informed me, with many apologies, "her
ladyship and all the ladies had gone to dress," and handed me over, with a courtly bow, to
a tidy elderly woman, in a cap that could only belong to a housekeeper. She conducted me to
my room, and consigned me to Gertrude, already hard at work unpacking upon her knees.

CHAPTER XX.

A very pretty little room it was; none of your enormous dreary state-apartments, dull as a
theatre in the daytime, with a bed like a mourning coach, and corners of gloom and mystery,
uncomfortable even at noon, and fatal to the nerves when seen by the light of a solitary wax-candle.
On the contrary, it was quite the room for a young lady: pink hangings tinted one's complexion
with that roseate bloom which the poet avers is as indispensable to woman as "man's imperial
front"--whatever that means--is to the male biped. A dark carpet with a rich border relieved
the light-coloured paper, picked out sparingly with flowers; the toilet-table was covered with
a blushing transparency of pink under white, like sunset on snow--perhaps I should rather say
like a muslin dress over a satin slip; and there was a charming full-length glass, in which
I could contemplate my whole person from top to toe, without slanting it an inch off the perpendicular.
The lookout was into Lady Scapegrace's garden, a little bijou of a place, that bore ample witness
to the good taste of its mistress. Every shrub had been transplanted under her own eye, every
border filled according to her personal directions. She tied her own carnations, and budded
her own roses, like the most exemplary clergyman's wife in England. I do believe she would
have been a good wife to anybody but Sir Guy.

However, it was too dark for me to see anything of her ladyship's garden. It was already getting
dusk when we arrived, and although it wanted three mortal hours of dinner, all the ladies,
including the hostess, had retired to their own rooms, to while away the time by writing letters,
reading novels, and going to sleep. I was much too restless to embark in any of these occupations.
It would have been a relief to write, certainly--to pour out all one's thoughts and feelings
before some sympathizing correspondent; but I owned none such. I could not have settled to
read, no, not the most interesting novel that was ever penned, although I might have left it
off the day before in an agony of uncertainty at the critical place which is always to be found
near the conclusion of the second volume; and as for sleep--sleep, indeed!--I felt as if I
should never sleep again.

When I am unhappy, and particularly when I am angry with myself, I must always be doing something--no
matter what--but I must be occupied, so I hurried Gertrude, and bustled about, and got myself
dressed, and found my own way to one of the drawing-rooms, where I hoped to be at least secure
from interruption, and to brood and worry myself for an hour or two in unbroken solitude. I
ought to have been safe enough here. As I had wandered through unknown passages and passed
uncertain doors, I had heard the click of billiard balls, the sound of many voices, and the
harsh laugh of Sir Guy; I knew consequently that the gentlemen were all busy at "pool," or
some equally intellectual pastime, and had not yet gone to dress. I was sufficiently conversant
with the habits of my own sex to be aware that no lady would willingly tarnish the freshness
of her dinner toilette by coming down before the very last minute, and I anticipated therefore
no further interruption than a housemaid coming to put the fire to rights, or a groom of the
chambers to light fresh candles, functionaries, especially the former, who would be much more
incommoded by my presence than I should be by theirs. Good gracious! there was a gentleman
down and dressed already; sitting with his back to me, immersed in the thrilling pages of "The
Drawing-Room Scrap Book," which he was studying upside-down. I came in very softly, and he
never heard me, nor turned his head, but I knew the back of that head pretty well. It was Cousin
John. I also took a book, and sat down.

"Perhaps," I thought, "he's not going to speak to me at all. Well, what do I care? I've a temper,
too, if it comes to that."

So I read my book assiduously; it was the "Comic Almanac," but I don't know that it made me
feel very much inclined to laugh. The clock ticked loud and disagreeably. I determined not
to speak till I was spoken to; but after a time the silence grew irksome, and the ticking of
the clock so loud, that I ventured on a slight cough, merely to break it. "Ahem," said I, still
intent on the "Comic Almanac." John turned slowly round, made a half rise, as if out of compliment
to my presence, and returned to "The Drawing-Room Scrap Book," which, however, he was now reading
the right way. This would not do; I resolved to wait a little longer, just a quarter of an
hour by the clock, and see whether he would not have the common civility to speak to me. What
a long quarter of an hour it was! The hand reached it at last--it passed it--I gave him another
five minutes. It was getting painful. I spoke, and the sound of my own voice quite startled
me, yet was my remark as harmless and commonplace as well could be.

"John," said I, "what time do we dine?"

"A quarter before eight, I believe," answered John, quite good-humouredly, and as if nothing
had happened to estrange us. "Dear me, Kate, how early you're dressed!"

I could have cried with vexation; but I resolved, if possible, to find a sore place somewhere,
and give him "one" before I had done with him; so I made a saucy face, and asked him, half
laughing, whether "he didn't think I had driven them very well from the station?"

"Inimitably, Kate," was his reply; "I hadn't the least idea you were so accomplished a charioteer."

